2019 Sustainability Report TOMORROW’S harvest TOMORROW’S HARVEST 1 A MESSAGE through any challenge that comes our way. The past few months have served as a reminder that when addressing robust pipeline of new biological active ingredients in discovery from Mark Douglas, President and Chief Executive tomorrow’s challenges, the status quo is not an option. and development at our European Officer and Pierre Brondeau, Executive Chairman Innovation Center in Denmark. NEW SUSTAINABILITY GOALS OUR CORE VALUES FMC Corporation From the start of our formal sustainability program in has never been 2010, we have been guided by sustainability targets, In early 2019, FMC introduced a refreshed content with goals and commitments that reflected our company’s set of core values that not only reflect FMC’s status quo. broad portfolio of businesses. In late 2019, we reset our unique culture, but also represent the behaviors Beginning with sustainability goals to more closely align with FMC’s that define our company today. These six values— our first product agriculture-focused business model. Integrity, Safety, Sustainability, Respect for People, Agility, that helped and Customer Centricity—are expressed in sustainability protect California The goals are grouped into three categories. First is stories throughout this report. orchards from Innovation, focusing on our R&D investments to develop scale in 1883, the sustainably-advantaged products. The second is Business One area of significant progress has been Diversity and company expanded Practices, measuring the company’s total recordable injury Inclusion, which is part of our Respect for People value. and grew into a rate, as well as our community engagement index. Finally, Recent highlights included new domestic partner and Left to right: Madeleine Douglas, Mark Douglas (FMC President and CEO), Melissa Brondeau conglomerate the third is Environmental Footprint, addressing energy transgender inclusion benefits, the first global Inclusion and Pierre Brondeau (FMC Executive Chairman) serving hundreds of intensity, greenhouse gas emissions intensity, water use Month, new Employee Resource Groups (ERGs) with more diversified markets throughout the 20th century. Today’s intensity and waste disposed intensity. In addition, FMC than 20 ERGs and Inclusion Councils across the company FMC is a pure-play agricultural sciences leader, but we continues to target two United Nations Sustainability and Inclusive Leadership training. These and many other retain the characteristics that have defined our success Development Goals (SDGs) as part of our overall strategy: progressive initiatives helped FMC receive a perfect score for nearly 140 years: a passion for technology, a desire to Goal 2: Zero Hunger and Goal 15: Life on Land. on the 2020 Human Rights Campaign Foundation’s solve societal problems, and a commitment to always Corporate Equality Index. look to the future for new challenges and opportunities. PLANT HEALTH We hope you enjoy learning about FMC’s continued This report includes many examples and stories about commitment to sustainability, our investments in Today, society is facing monumental challenges due to how FMC is driving sustainability throughout the novel crop protection technologies, and our continuing COVID-19. The United Nations World Food Programme company. However, we are especially eager for you to support of Tomorrow’s Harvest. estimates COVID-19 will double the number of people learn more about FMC Plant Health, an exciting business suffering from food insecurity. At FMC, we recognize that that has grown significantly in the last several years. we are a part of an essential community committed to supporting farmers in their critical role of providing food Today, we are investing in new biological products derived to help nourish people. Now more than ever, farmers need from microorganisms and other naturally occurring the right crop protection technologies to defend against materials. Featuring new modes of action and excellent destructive insects, invasive weeds and the threat of disease. sustainability characteristics, these unique products help crops overcome difficult growing conditions, fight disease Mark Douglas Pierre R. Brondeau This year’s Sustainability Report theme, Tomorrow’s and assist in regulating a plant’s uptake of nutrients and President and Executive Chairman Harvest, underscores our commitment to producing food, use of limited water. FMC has several biological products Chief Executive Officer FMC CORPORATION feed, fiber and fuel for an expanding world population on the market that are performing extremely well, and a FMC CORPORATION TABLE OF CONTENTS Organizational Profile 02 ▶ Global Specialty Solutions About this Report ▶ Product Stewardship FMC Core Values 03 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) ▶ Highly Hazardous Pesticides This report and our web-based content at New Sustainability Goals 04 Our Progress 32 www.FMCsustainability.com have been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. A 2019 Progress Report ▶ Community Engagement detailed GRI Content Index can be found on the website. and 2020 Commitments 06 ▶ 2019 Environmental Results Stakeholder Engagement 07 ▶ Remediation and Beneficial Reuse UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT of our Legacy Sites FMC became a signatory to the UN Global Compact Topics in Focus 08 (UNGC) in 2014. This report represents our fifth Assurance Statement 38 Communications on Progress in support of the UNGC ▶ What’s in a Pesticide Label? principles. A summary of our Communication on Progress ▶ Understanding the Differences Board of Directors, Chairman’s Committee can be found on our website. Between Organic and and FMC Officers 39 Conventional Farming EXTERNAL ASSURANCE OF UN Global Compact ENVIRONMENTAL DATA Our People 12 Communication on Progress 40 FMC engaged ERM Certification and Verification Services ▶ Safety Goals, Programs and Awards to provide limited assurance in relation to specified 2019 ▶ Ethics and Compliance environmental and safety data. Further details about our external assurance can be found on Page 38 of the report. ▶ Talent Management EXPLORE FMCSUSTAINABILITY.COM ▶ Diversity and Inclusion We invite you to explore our website for more MATERIALITY information and data. The online data center lets you The information and topics covered in this report Our Products 24 visualize and interact with our data. You can explore were guided by an internal and external stakeholder ▶ Science to Grow the Resources section to access FMC reports and materiality assessment that was conducted in 2018. videos related to our sustainability programs as well ▶ Plant Health This assessment was accomplished through a series as FMC policies and statements on several important of interviews, meetings and surveys with stakeholders. ▶ Precision Agriculture topics including climate change, SDGs, human rights, Further details on this assessment and the materiality ▶ Product Highlight – supplier code of conduct and animal welfare. matrix can be found on our website. Xyway™ 3D fungicide TOMORROW’S HARVEST 3 ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE FMC Corporation, an agricultural sciences company, provides innovative solutions to growers around the world with a robust product portfolio fueled by a market-driven discovery and development pipeline in crop protection, plant health and professional pest and turf management. Cotton Gossypium hirsutum FMC REPORTING AND CONSOLIDATION PRINCIPLES The environmental and safety data in this report include all sites under FMC’s operational control in the 2019 2019 Financial Performance Summary (USD) calendar year as well as environmental data supplied by active ingredient contract manufacturers (except For the year ending December 31, 2019, FMC Corporation recorded the following results: where noted). Scope 1 and Scope 2 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions are reported in accordance with the $ 4.6 $ 1.2 $ 6.09 Greenhouse Gas Protocol. * * Revenue by Region (USD) ANNUAL SALES ADJUSTED EBITDA ADJUSTED EARNINGS 2019 FY (billions) (billions) Per Share 23% 24% $ 3.62 Asia North 16.3% * $ 480.2 America $4,609.8 GAAP DILUTED million RETURN ON GAAP NET INCOME INVESTED CAPITAL (millions) EARNINGS Per Share 31% 22% Latin America Europe, *Represents a non-GAAP financial term. Refer to our website for definitions and Middle East + Africa reconciliations of non-GAAP terms to the most directly comparable GAAP term. 2 FMC 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FMC CORE VALUES Living Sustainability as a Core Value Across FMC “ In early 2019, we introduced a refreshed set of core values that not only articulate FMC’s unique culture, but also reflect the behaviors that define our company today. These six core values define who we are and how we do business. Collectively, these values guide us as individuals and as a team of 6,400* people around the world. It’s what sets FMC apart and is the key to our long-term growth and sustainability as a company. The strong values of the company, including its ambitions within sustainability was a very important reason for joining FMC. When I did my research about the company, I saw Integrity Safety that many of FMC’s values aligned with my own. I felt in this company, we can make a We do things the right way – ethically and in compliance with laws – regardless of Every action we take is guided by our difference in society. That meant a lot to me.” circumstances TH!NK. SAFE. Manifesto Eva Louise Holm Østergaard, We keep our commitments, building trust with We empower employees to always put Communications Manager EMEA, FMC Corporation “ customers, shareholders, the community and safety first Hørsholm, Denmark each other We help others to be safe – at work, at home and We take responsibility for our actions, on the road regardless of the outcome Sustainability has been the nucleus of our strategy. Our slogan “Every green leaf matters to us” is associated with winning Respect for People farmer trust, which is our biggest asset We empower informed risk-taking, celebrating Sustainability in Pakistan. Sales and marketing teams successes and learning from mistakes generate new ideas around this core value.” We create innovative solutions while preserving We develop the knowledge and abilities of our the environment for tomorrow Raheel Nasir, people to best serve their careers and Asia Pacific Commercial Excellence Manager, FMC Corporation We make a positive impact on the communities “ our customers Lahore, Pakistan where we live and work We create an inclusive environment where We steward the responsible use of our products diverse views, backgrounds and experiences are key to our success Sustainability outside of work didn’t mean a whole lot prior to getting more involved in it with the company. I didn’t Customer-Centricity pay attention to my energy consumption Agility We cultivate long-term customer relationships at home. I didn’t look at it, didn’t think and put their needs at the center of everything about it, didn’t worry about it. Now, all We are action-oriented, delivering results without sacrificing safety or quality we do those things are on my radar. I began We pursue continuous innovation not only in our We understand our customers’ business, replacing lights and fixtures, updated my door and products and processes, but in the experiences and provide solutions to their most pressing window insulation, began maintaining control of the we deliver challenges temperature in my home, added spray foam in my We are collaborative, fast and nimble We measure our success in terms of our customers’ success attic and started looking at the bigger picture.” Brad West, EHS Manager, FMC Corporation Mobile, Alabama, United States *Inclusive of regular and provisional employees TOMORROW’S HARVEST 3 FMC’S NEW 2025/2030 impact on the planet. To reflect this commitment, we have impact on our business, including unexpected disruptions reset our sustainability goals to challenge ourselves and in our supply chain, rapidly changing pest profiles and SUSTAINABILITY ensure that we are helping to create a better world. changes in geographies where crops can be grown. GOALS We are at a pivotal moment in history where the effects of climate change are threatening to disrupt global food As we move forward with these new goals, we would like to note that FMC made excellent progress on the production due to unpredictable weather patterns, rising sustainability goals we initially set in 2015: we exceeded We have a commitment to deliver products that maintain sea levels and increasing global mean temperatures. our innovation, safety, energy, waste and water targets. a safe and secure food supply and to do so with minimal These effects, if left unchecked, will have a long-term GOAL BY 2025 INNOVATION BUSINESS PRACTICES 100% Innovation is in our DNA. With GOAL BY 2025 SAFETY strong capabilities < 0.1 R&D Spend on Developing in our R&D At FMC, people come first. We strive for an injury-free workplace, where Sustainable Products organization, we every employee returns home the same way they arrived. We encourage create innovative a culture of open reporting, so we can learn from our mistakes and work Total Recordable solutions to towards continuous improvement in behaviors and processes. A TRIR of Incident Rate (TRIR) address food security, one of the largest global challenges, less than 0.1 is industry leading performance. without compromising the environment. We commit to creating products that are consistently better for the planet than any that currently exists in the market. FMC utilizes the Sustainability Assessment Tool to determine GOAL BY 2025 COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT if new active ingredients and formulated products in 100 our R&D pipeline are sustainably-advantaged. This We are committed to enriching the communities where we work and live. assessment, along with other stewardship processes If surrounding communities thrive, so do we. To monitor this, each FMCand tools, ensures the introduction and continued use of owned manufacturing site and select R&D sites report on their community environmentally sustainable agricultural solutions. The on the Community activities quarterly. If a site completes an activity in each of FMC’s R&D spend used in the metric is inclusive of all variable Engagement Index Community Engagement categories (Safety, Operational Transparency, and fixed costs related to the discovery and development Community Partnership, Community Leadership), it earns a score of 100 process across all regions. It does not include spend on the Community Engagement Index. associated with the defense of existing products. 4 FMC 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ENVIRONMENTAL footprint to 2030 based on anticipated future production UNITED NATIONS SUSTAINABLE FOOTPRINT NEW volumes. Collaborating with our operations team, we DEVELOPMENT GOALS Due to the changes to our business 2018 then incorporated various scenarios and sustainability We will continue to focus on Goal 2: BASELINE project commitments into the model to develop our final over the past few years, we have environmental goals. If our goals are met early, we will Zero Hunger and Goal 15: Life on Land decided to reset our baseline year to refine and reset them to ensure that we are continuously through our new sustainability goals 2018 (from 2013) and set aggressive improving our environmental profile. and overall business strategy. environmental goals to reflect the new FMC. More information on our environmental metrics and For more information on our To determine these new goals, we developed a progress is available on page 35. progress on the SDGs, please visit mathematical model that used base-year sustainability www.FMCsustainability.com. data and extrapolated our yearly environmental Sustain GOALS BY 2030 25% 25% GHG Emissions 20% Water-Use Intensity BASE YEAR Energy Intensity Intensity in High-Risk Locations Waste Disposed Intensity Energy intensity is calculated as GHG intensity is calculated as the total Water-use intensity is calculated as the Waste disposed intensity is calculated the total amount of energy utilized amount of GHGs (tonnes CO2 equivalent) total amount of water utilized (cubic as the total amount of waste disposed (gigajoule) per metric tonne of product. per metric tonne of product. meter) in high-risk locations per metric (metric tonne) per metric tonne of tonne of product. product. Due to anticipated shifts in FMC’s product mix and expected growth through 2030, waste disposed intensity is expected to increase by 55 percent. Therefore, we will need to decrease our waste disposed intensity by 55 percent to maintain the 2018 base year intensity. TOMORROW’S HARVEST 5 PROGRESS REPORT ON OUR 2019 COMMITMENTS Update innovation, business practice and operations goals and targets for FMC. Support Diversity and Inclusion efforts both internally (through Employee Resource Groups) and externally (through corporate affiliate groups and academia). Identify opportunities to improve our sustainability reporting in line with CDP (formerly Carbon Disclosure Project) and other reporting frameworks. Reduce FMC’s non-renewable energy dependency by exploring options for renewable energy sourcing. Conduct initial Scope 3 GHG emissions assessment. Incorporate sustainability matrices in the Capital Deployment Plan. Continue utilizing the External Sustainability Advisory Council to help shape FMC’s global sustainability strategy. Conduct Life Cycle Assessments for newly acquired active ingredients (Rynaxypyr® active ingredient, Cyazypyr® active ingredient and indoxacarb). Continue to measure our global logistics footprint to better understand and reduce our impacts and risks. 2020 COMMITMENTS Corn Zea mays Conduct an extensive shareholder outreach project to better understand how Develop life cycle assessments for Rynaxypyr® they assess FMC through an ESG lens. and Cyazypyr® active ingredients. Develop and introduce the sustainability brand to engage both internal and Incorporate Sustainability in Capital Deployment Plan. external stakeholders. Measure our global logistics footprint to better Start utilizing Sustainability Accounting Standards Board’s (SASB) chemical understand and reduce our impacts and risks. standard and the Taskforce on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) frameworks for sustainability disclosures. Develop a renewable energy strategy. Summarize baseline Scope 3 GHG emissions for 2019 and externally report the Gain further understanding of our suppliers’ information; determine where there are opportunities to refine the data and sustainability programs. reduce the impact. Conduct biennial Materiality Assessment. completed in progress not started yet 6 FMC 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT In November 2019, FMC welcomed Trey Hill, CEO Stakeholder engagement continues to be essential as products and how they are differentiated from other of Harborview FMC has evolved into a pure-play agricultural sciences classes of insecticides. In 2019, Dr. Dinter also worked with Farms, to the company. We engage with our stakeholder groups on PAN on their press release regarding the mode of action External Sustainability Advisory Council. Trey a regular basis to work through initiatives and issues and bee profile of our diamide products. Moving forward, brings with him his experience as a fourthimportant to the company and wider community. we hope to continue our collaboration with PAN and other generation grain farmer from Maryland. He Please refer to our Stakeholder Engagement Table on NGOs to understand and address any potential concerns has been committed to improving agriculture our website (www.FMCsustainability.com) which shows they may have and also to keep them informed about FMC’s sustainability and carbon smart farming our major stakeholder groups, channels of engagement efforts toward delivering sustainable agricultural solutions. practices. He is leading the way in responsible and key topics that we covered in 2019. Below are some agriculture and bridging the gap between specific examples of our engagement outcomes. INDUSTRY ASSOCIATIONS environmentalists and agriculturalists. FMC is a EMPLOYEES member We engaged several employee focus groups representing of CropLife all functions and commercial regions to seek their input International Members of the Council are leaders in agriculture, energy, on developing a sustainability brand for FMC. Employees (CLI), a global trade association of agrochemical water, academia and environmental issues. They have were asked about what sustainability means to them and companies representing the plant science industry. broadened our thinking in many areas. Their feedback is how FMC could further its sustainability commitments. On the industry’s behalf, they address international vital as FMC continues to evolve and grow. Their ideas were synthesized to develop FMC’s developments in crop protection and agricultural sustainability brand which will help engage all employees biotechnology and promote approaches that enhance INVESTORS across the organization on sustainability. The new brand sustainable agriculture in the interests of agricultural Early in 2020 we engaged with many of our will be launched in 2020. producers, consumers and the environment. stockholders to discuss environmental, social and Representatives from FMC serve on CLI’s Board of governance (ESG) topics. We held 23 calls (representing NON-GOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (NGOs) Directors, Strategy Councils and steering committees (e.g., approximately 45 percent of our shares outstanding) Communications, Stewardship, Regulatory, Multilateral FMC has been working with the Pesticide Action and received positive feedback on our sustainability Affairs, Operations) alongside representatives from other Network (PAN) Europe in Brussels, Belgium, and PAN goals, website, report and outreach efforts on ESG. member companies. Through CropLife, we focus on UK in Brighton, UK, to provide them with information on We discussed the Sustainability Assessment tool as addressing issues such as biodiversity, food security and FMC’s diamide insecticides Rynaxypyr® and Cyazypyr® well as our material topics. Additional feedback from climate change. For a list of FMC’s key industry association active ingredients and formulated products. In 2016 and the stockholders was to utilize the SASB and TCFD memberships, log on to www.FMCsustainability.com. 2017, Dr. Axel Dinter, Global frameworks, particularly for ESG, in addition to the GRI Regulatory Ecotoxicologist framework. (Note that we will be including SASB and EXTERNAL SUSTAINABILITY ADVISORY COUNCIL and hobby beekeeper, met TCFD disclosures on our website). with bee experts from PAN FMC’s External Sustainability Advisory Council, initiated to discuss the favorable bee in November 2017, provides perspectives and objectivity safety profile of our diamide to our sustainability strategy. Dr. Axel Dinter, Global Regulatory Ecotoxicologist and hobby beekeeper TOMORROW’S HARVEST 7 TOPICS IN FOCUS 4▶ DIRECTIONS FOR USE For the grower, this is the most practical part of the label, beyond following regulatory restrictions. This What’s in a Pesticide Label? can include information about: • Where the product can be used • What crops the product can be used on Pesticides are among the most tested and regulated products in the world. All • The types of pest(s) it controls pesticides must be registered in the country of use and meet the specific regulations • Application methods of local government agencies. The ultimate document accompanying each pesticide • How much product can be applied and at product is the label, which communicates information on the approved use(s) of a what frequency product from the registrant (i.e., the company that registers a product) to the end user. Government approval of the label assures that the pesticide has been thoroughly • Maximum application rates evaluated and meets all safety standards regarding potential risks to human health • Restrictions on use such as weather, time of and the environment when the product is applied according to the label. day, season, etc. There can also be additional information in the The label is designed specifically for each product and is based on extensive testing “Directions For Use” section provided by the of field efficacy, product chemistry, toxicology, environmental fate, ecological effects manufacturer. Below are some examples. and residue chemistry. The following are some of the important highlights of a product label based on the requirements established by the United States Environmental Integrated Pest Management Protection Agency (U.S. EPA). The integration of all forms of pest control methods including agricultural chemicals, biological (natural enemies), cultural (sanitation, rotation) and genetic (varietal selection) into a pest management 1▶ INGREDIENTS STATEMENT 3▶ ENVIRONMENTAL HAZARDS program that includes pest monitoring and the use The name and percentage by weight of each The environmental hazards statement provides of action treatment thresholds. active ingredient and the total percentage by the precautionary language informing users of Resistance Management weight of all other inert ingredients must be on the potential hazards to the environment from Pesticide resistance occurs when a given pesticide the front panel of the label. transport, use, storage or spill of the product. These is overused for the control of the same pest, hazards may be to water, soil, air, beneficial insects, 2▶ PRECAUTIONARY STATEMENTS resulting in selection of resistant individuals in a plants and/or wildlife. Generally, the information Precautionary statements provide the pesticide pest population. If products with the same mode contained in this section is based upon the results user with information about toxicity, irritation of action, are applied repeatedly during the season of several environmental toxicology studies on potential, and dermal sensitization hazards without proper rotation to products with a different organisms such as birds, fish, water fleas and bees. associated with the use of the pesticide, in mode of action, then resistance can occur. Specific addition to medical treatment instructions and In addition, data about a product’s potential to guidance on resistance management strategies are information to reduce exposure potential. be transported to groundwater, surface water, included in this section. or aquatic sediment; to drift; or to adversely affect non-target plants and bees also provide important information. 8 FMC 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 3 Strawberry Fragaria x ananassa 1 Excerpts of FMC’s Coragen® insect control U.S. label 4 2 Excerpts of FMC’s Coragen® insect control U.S. label directions for use on strawberries. The product label includes general use information and specific information for all approved crops. Product Application Timing, Spray Intervals, appropriate pest stage, pest population level and key to managing potential spray drift. It is important and Adjuvant Use crop stage are important to the grower to best to follow spray system standard configurations Directions are included on when to apply the take advantage of the pesticidal characteristics to and practices to optimize spray droplet size and to product based on pest population or damage maximize pest control. mitigate impact on non-target organisms. levels (referred to as action thresholds), minimum Spray Drift Management intervals between sprays, minimum spray Very detailed guidance on understanding the volumes, and use of tank mix partners and/or effects of weather factors, particularly wind speed, adjuvants. Additional information that guides on ground and aerial applied pesticide products is growers on application timing based on the Source: Label Review Manual, Authored by the Office of Pesticide Programs, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency TOMORROW’S HARVEST 9 TOPICS IN FOCUS Understanding the Differences Between Organic and Conventional Farming with Linda Froelich, Director of Global Sustainability, FMC Corporation “ substances such as synthetic pesticides, fertilizers and As someone who has worked in the genetically modified organisms (GMOs). Conventional farming, on the other hand, covers farming practices Crop Protection industry for over 40 that utilize synthetic pesticides along with Integrated years, I have heard a lot of debate over Pest Management (IPM) strategies such as biological the pros and cons of conventional and products, crop rotation, cover cropping and no-till. organic farming. These two approaches These IPM strategies are used in organic farming, too. Linda Froelich and her grandson, Luca are very involved in the to farming have been in the public sphere community including science learning. Linda is a scientist by and evolved to become two distinct WHAT ARE THE DIFFERENCES BETWEEN training, and leads global sustainability initiatives at FMC. ORGANIC AND SYNTHETIC PESTICIDES? methodologies that to some, have Organic pesticides are those that are derived from chemicals and have been found to have potential health become mutually exclusive. However, like natural sources and may be processed slightly, if at all, risks associated with them. The safety of a pesticide many important things in the world, the before use. Synthetic pesticides, used in conventional should not be determined by how natural it is, but reality is somewhat different.” farming, are generally made by scientists in a laboratory rather by how it performs in human and environmental and then commercially in a manufacturing plant. They toxicity studies. are among the most highly regulated products in the world and are tested extensively to ensure their safety for WHAT EXACTLY IS THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN people, the environment and wildlife. ORGANIC AND CONVENTIONAL FARMING? According to the Food and Agricultural Organization ARE ORGANIC PESTICIDES SAFER TO USE? of the United Nations (FAO), organic farming refers to It has been assumed for years that pesticides that occur a system that relies on ecosystem management rather naturally (in plants, for example) are better for us and than external agricultural inputs. According to the U.S. the environment than those that have been created Department of Agriculture (USDA), ‘organic producers by people. As more research is done into their toxicity, rely on natural substances and physical, mechanical, however, this is not necessarily true. Just because or biologically based farming methods to the fullest something is natural does not make it non-toxic or safe. extent possible’. Organic farming definitions can Many natural pesticides produce poisons, toxins and differ from country to country but generally prohibit 10 FMC 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT IS ORGANIC FARMING MORE SUSTAINABLE pesticide use while increasing the bioavailability of THAN CONVENTIONAL FARMING? soils, crop yields, nutritional quality and biodiversity in agricultural lands. New technologies are our strongest This is a difficult question because the answer is not allies. We do not have to choose sides but can appreciate clear. On one hand, some studies suggest that organic the upsides of rotating products and crops, and how new farms protect biodiversity more than their conventional technologies will improve output and nutrition. We must counterparts.1 However, other studies have shown that learn from each other and work together to improve conventional farming has a smaller environmental our global food resources and ensure sustainable footprint due to increased crop yield and conservation agriculture is part of our future. tillage. Crop yields from organic farms are generally between 20 percent to 50 percent of what the same size conventional farm yields.2 Currently, switching to purely organic farming could result in wide expansion 1 Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations of agricultural land and the potential destruction 2 Savage, Steven. “USDA Data Confirm Organic Yields Significantly Lower than with Conventional Farming.” Genetic Literacy Project, Feb. 2018 of untouched habitats. This could, in turn, threaten endangered species and decrease biodiversity. CAN WE FEED THE WORLD’S POPULATION USING ONLY ORGANICALLY GROWN FOOD TODAY? No, not today due to lower crop yields and the resulting high cost of organically grown food to consumers. That’s not to say that this may not change in the future. Better technology could overcome the production gap, allowing organic methods to produce on par with conventional farming. If that occurs, then organic farming may become more productive and economically feasible. FMC is exploring and developing biologicals that might help all types of farming (for more information on FMC’s biological products, see page 26). DO WE HAVE TO CHOOSE ONE METHOD OF FARMING OVER THE OTHER? Not necessarily – it depends on technology and what we discover and learn in the future. Until organic farming can produce crops yields on par with conventional methods, we need conventional farming to ensure global food security. An ideal future will merge conventional and organic methods, using new technologies to target TOMORROW’S HARVEST 11 our Henry Ngugi, with Novi Budiyanty, FMC R&D Manager (L) and Abdul Hery Suryanto, Crop Protection Product Distributor (R) PEOPLE “ We are trying to feed the world and help growers do their job. Coming from a developing country, I understand the complexities surrounding food security and want to make sure that growers can continue to feed people with limited resources and mitigate losses from diseases. The global population is increasing, and we want to be able to sustainably farm the limited farmland that we have.” – Henry Ngugi, Global Technical Product Manager-Fungicides, FMC Corporation Read Henry’s full interview on www.FMCsustainability.com/voices Safety Safety is a core value for FMC. Our Total Recordable 2025 Goal: Incident Rate (TRIR) in 2019 was 0.13. From June 2019 <0.1 Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) through October 2019, the company had zero injuries, Onion the longest stretch in FMC history. Since 2012, we Allium cepa have made significant improvements in our safety 2019 SAFETY PERFORMANCE performance. As a result of our firm commitment to safety, our TRIR is among the lowest in the industry 0.63 globally and in the upper decile of peer companies 0.51 0.51 in North America1. We continue to be proud of the 0.41 commitment each and every employee makes every day TRIR to work in a safe environment. 0.22 0.18 0.11 0.13 1 American Chemistry Council 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 PROCESS SAFETY MANAGEMENT Process Safety Management (PSM) is a key component of our safety core value. We are continuously developing and enforcing robust systems and procedures for our employees across all global sites. Below are the highlights of the activities conducted in 2019 across the organization. SYSTEMS LEVEL PROCESS LEVEL PSM STANDARD PROCESS HAZARD LEVEL (PHL) PROCESS SAFETY INFORMATION (PSI) PROCESS HAZARD ANALYSIS (PHA) This standard sets the minimum SCREENING This contains details about materials, This is a systemic review of a specific process process safety system requirements for This screening tool uses an internally equipment and process technology. This to identify and evaluate process hazards. manufacturing sites, pilot plants and kilo developed methodology to identify information is used to support all other As a result of these PHAs, we immediately labs to prevent fires, explosions and releases the hazards of a process and ensure elements of PSM and is necessary to address unacceptable risks and develop of hazardous materials. both effective and efficient control of understand, identify and evaluate our mitigation action plans. process hazards. process safety hazards. In 2019 we revised our Process Safety In 2019 we conducted PHAs for several Management Standard to incorporate In 2019 we revised our hazard level screening In 2019 we reviewed our PSI for several high-hazard processes in accordance with better, more stringent requirements in three procedure to include learnings from our processes in preparation for cyclical our 5-year cycle. Action items to address the key areas: risk identification and mitigation use of the tool to help better identify Process Hazard Analysis (PHA). Significant highest risks have been identified and management, pre-start up safety reviews our high hazard processes. The updated technical areas for this review included: are underway. and processes handling combustible dust. methodology improves classification and reactive chemistry data, emergency relief prioritization of Process Safety initiatives and systems calculations and other safety implementation of our PSM Standard. systems design basics. This affected more than 20 different processes at 10 sites. TOMORROW’S HARVEST 13 FMC SAFETY PROGRAMS IN 2019 that could have led to an unsafe moment or even an VEHICLE SAFETY PROGRAM injury – we called these “Stop-Think-Act Moments of FMC’S STOP.THINK.ACT CAMPAIGN Annually, road traffic accidents cause an estimated 1.25 Proof”. Over 200 employees submitted photos of their million deaths around the world. In response to this, motivators and/or provided short write-ups on their we developed the regionally led Vehicle and Motorcycle moments of proof. Safety Program. The aim of this program is to achieve zero road fatalities and injuries on and off the job for FMC STOP.THINK.ACT. Motivator employees and contractors. Activities under the program include: strengthening vehicular use policies across Jennifer Hirsch, the region, conducting communication campaigns to Deployment Lead, engage employees about vehicular safety and organizing Business Process defensive driving training to influence driving behavior. Modernization from In the Asia Pacific program, over 2,000 employees have Philadelphia, U.S., said been trained on defensive driving techniques to date. FMC launched the Stop-Think-Act Campaign in 2019. A her children Abby, key objective of this campaign was to educate employees Hannah and Elizabeth on the psychology of decision making and how it affects are her Stop. Think. our personal safety. Act. Motivators. She In 2019, the FMC China shares, “my children team launched the “Safety in The campaign also focused on video storytelling are counting on me Mind to Achieve Your Safety from employees on personal safety experiences. We to make good choices Journey” program. The training included behindthen encouraged employees to identify people who throughout the day, the-wheel instruction and motivated them to Stop-Think-Act when it came to safety and otherwise, so that I can return home to workshop sessions to build a culture of driving safety safety. To bring the campaign to a close, employees them each night. It’s important to be a good role among field employees. were asked to share experiences where they used Stopmodel for them, and part of that means making the Think-Act to help them correct a behavior or action safe choice even when ‘no one is watching.” Do you know you have both a fast brain and information. It does not consider new information or risks. and a slow brain? Our SLOW BRAIN System is normally turned off during Our brains work in incredible ways. They have evolved routine activities to save energy. It will turn on when to handle everything from simple, routine activities to doing something new or difficult. We can also choose to complex calculations. turn it on any time we need to approach an activity with But since more complex work requires more logical decision making. brainpower, our brains like to operate with what’s To stay safe, make the choice to turn on your SLOW called our FAST BRAIN. Our Fast Brain System is always BRAIN. How do you do that? One way is to remember on and makes decisions based on past experiences to STOP and THINK before ACTing. 14 FMC 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SAFETY MOMENT WEEK (SMW) 2019 FOCUS 120 DAYS surpassed Responsible Care® performance criteria, including: achieving a safety performance rating in Safety Moment Week (SMW) is a key part of FMC’s safety FMC conducts annual Focus Campaigns to highlight the top 10 percent of companies in their size category culture. It provides an opportunity for employees to take a safety topic of importance to the organization. with no significant process events in the previous time each day to focus and be engaged in an important Employees are engaged at all levels in the education year; positive performance measures in the areas of safety topic. During the 2019 Safety Moment Week, FMC and implementation of relevant topics based on data transportation safety, process safety and emissions manufacturing employees worldwide stopped work from incidents, near misses and observations. For each reduction; and demonstrated improvements in each day to discuss such topics as vehicle safety, hazard campaign, employees will engage in dialogs, activities Environmental, Health, Safety and Sustainability recognition, office safety and chemical safety. In addition, and workshops related to a specific topic. performance, product stewardship, distribution safety site leaders were given the chance to include locally relevant In 2019, a Focus 120 Days Campaign on machine and emergency preparedness. safety topics. In 2019, participation in Safety Moment Week was exceptional among employees and contractors. guarding was conducted. Machine guarding is the Sustainability Award process of equipping machines to protect operators and other employees in the work area from hazards created FMC was the recipient of ACC’s inaugural Transparency SMW Spotlight – Flintshire, UK and Collaboration Sustainability Award for its by ingoing nip points, rotating parts, and flying chips and sparks. During this time, employees at manufacturing Sustainability Assessment Tool. FMC developed sites received training on various machine guarding the tool to help determine the sustainability of its topics. They then used the knowledge received from active ingredients and products, from initial concept Safety Moment the training to conduct a “Go-See” activity where they through each stage of development. The Sustainability Week at observed on-site processes and operations for possible Assessment Tool compares an active ingredient or Flintshire, UK machine guarding issues. formulated product to a benchmark to determine a “sustainability matrix value,” based on stewardship and RESPONSIBLE CARE ® sustainability criteria that consider product hazards, environmental and human exposure, and the overall FMC receives two prestigious awards from the All employees from the Flintshire, UK, site participated life cycle of the product. This tool, which is scalable and American Chemistry Council (ACC) in the Safety Moment Week activities in 2019. Topics replicable by other companies, enables stakeholders FMC received the ACC’s highest honor, the Responsible to understand FMC’s product ingredients and their presented at Flintshire included hazard recognition, Care® Company of the Year Award, for 2020. We are sustainability impacts. office safety, vehicle safety and slips, trips and falls. proud to have won this award in three of the last These topics were presented in group activities which four years (in 2017 and 2019). We also received ACC’s included hands-on demonstrations, videos and talks. inaugural Transparency & Collaboration Sustainability Award in 2019. Karen Totland accepting the ACC Sustainability Responsible Care® Company of the Year Award Award on behalf of FMC Left to right: Jerry We received this award for our “unwavering leadership MacCleary (ACC Chairman), and exemplary commitment to the tenets of Responsible Karen Totland (FMC Vice Cabbage President of Procurement, Brassica oleracea var. capitate Care” (Cal Dooley, former ACC President and CEO). Facilities and Sustainability), Cal Dooley (former ACC President and CEO) To be eligible for the Company of the Year award, ACC members must demonstrate they have met and TOMORROW’S HARVEST 15 Ethics and Compliance on Ethics and Compliance initiatives and related company news. In Asia Pacific, a regional “speak FMC Ethics and Compliance Award Winners up” campaign featured local leaders emphasizing FMC has a longstanding commitment to ethics the importance of raising compliance-related The Ethics and Compliance Achievement Awards and compliance, which questions and concerns. Ethics and Compliance also recognize employees who make significant compliancethe company reinforced led several “soft audits” of non-financial company related contributions and are champions of good behavior in 2019 with expanded policies, using data to determine what additional at FMC. The 2019 winners are: communications, educational support might be helpful for ensuring compliance processes and ongoing compliance. To drive FMC’s compliance North America culture deeper into our local organizations, Ethics resources. Michael Reilly, EVA HASZCZ Chief Compliance Officer, and Compliance ambassadors (approximately For leading work and educational programs 150 employees representing various regions and was appointed Executive Amy Foster, newly designated at three R&D facilities to maintain “Good Vice President, General Ethics and Compliance Counsel functions) met several times throughout the year and Laboratory Practices” compliance certifications. Counsel and Secretary obtained feedback and ideas at the local level. Asia Pacific effective April 1, 2019. In connection with this transition, In 2020, FMC’s Ethics and Compliance Team is V. RAMCHANDRAN “RAM” he created a new role in the Law Department for a leading several initiatives including: For setting a strong “tone at the top” and lawyer fully dedicated to global ethics and compliance prioritizing various compliance-related at FMC. Amy Foster assumed this new role as FMC’s ▶ Awareness and training campaigns focused on objectives in India. Ethics and Compliance Counsel. business ethics and corporate culture; insider trading; employment and workplace issues; and In 2019, FMC’s Ethics and Compliance Team led import, export and trade compliance several awareness campaigns on topics such as antitrust compliance, sexual harassment prevention, ▶ Updates to the FMC Ethics Response Line careful communications and intellectual property ▶ Updates to key FMC policies protection. These awareness campaigns were Latin America available in many languages and were shared to a ▶ Enhanced third-party risk management programs (L-R) JAVIER SCALISE, JUAN ABARCA, global audience. Further, the Team’s quarterly news ▶ Enhanced Ethics and Compliance website NOELIA DI GANGI magazine, E + C = FMC, helped employees to keep ▶ Ethics and Compliance events for For showing initiative, creativity and teamwork on complianceethics and compliance top-of-mind with content FMC employees related projects in Argentina, particularly as they relate to operations and finance. Europe, Middle East and Africa Spotlight: Intellectual Property Protection MICKAËL MAHIEU For leadership in product compliance This awareness campaign trained employees on trade secrets, patents, trademarks and copyrights. It and related contributions to “Contamination featured customized video messages from FMC’s Chief Intellectual Property Counsel and other key Prevention in the Manufacture of Crop leaders in FMC’s global business groups and functions. Throughout this campaign, digital screens at FMC Protection Products: Guidelines and Tower showed campaign-related messages, and multi-lingual electronic training modules circulated to Best Practices.” thousands of employees globally. 16 FMC 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Talent Management Associate Director of Learning Working with leaders across the globe, we launched our and Organizational Development FMC core values and linked them to seven competencies. Our learning, leadership and development programs In 2018, Sharon Rose Holmes (pictured with her husband) was named Associate are focused on building these competencies in our Director of Learning and Organizational Development. She oversees Global employees. Additionally, in 2019 our performance Learning, Leadership and Performance. She successfully directs several Global management process was updated such that 50 percent Leadership and Talent Management initiatives and is based at FMC’s headquarters of an employee’s annual performance is based on in Philadelphia. achieving their objectives and 50 percent is based on how well they demonstrated the competencies. LEARNING AND LEADERSHIP highest levels, enabling them to deliver innovative Our Values and Competencies solutions, strong results and continued growth. Three Today’s most successful leaders foster meaningful of our signature leadership programs are: relationships at every level in the organization and help elevate the performance and well-being of 1 SCIENCE OF LEADERSHIP Strategic those around them. At FMC, we strive to consistently maintain our status as one of the top agricultural The Science of Leadership is designed to challenge those Inclusive sciences companies in the world. It is important that individuals who have demonstrated leadership potential we focus our programs and initiatives on sustaining as individual contributors or who are new to providing Adaptive strong leaders who are committed to engaging direction to a team. The program is built to have and developing their employees, so they can lead employees engage in several activities that allow for selfcompetitively, innovate change, improve business awareness and how to lead, regardless of their position in Leadership performance, and successfully maintain a competitive the company. Through interactive learning, participants advantage. FMC’s leadership development program learn to work without silos, recognizing the value that Accountable components include: approach brings to achieving desired outcomes. The Functional/ goals of the Science of Leadership program are to: Technical ▶ In-class and self-paced learning Knowledge/ Equip participants with the skills to challenge Skills ▶ Development planning and stretch assignments others, strategically address change when it occurs Innovative ▶ Project-based action learning and rotational learning within FMC and motivate teams for success ▶ Mentoring and coaching Improve participants’ understanding of the ▶ Leadership and functional assessments value of working across differences, including communication styles and range of influence Our programs are designed to provide engaging, Encourage participants to think more broadly CORE VALUES: collaborative, and creative learning environments. about their role and how to optimally drive results Integrity | Safety | Sustainability Employees leverage their experiences in these within FMC Respect for People | Agility | Customer-Centricity programs to develop their leadership abilities to their TOMORROW’S HARVEST 17 3 KEYS TO LEADERSHIP reports. The raters fill out a confidential online feedback form that asks questions covering a broad range of Our inaugural Keys to Leadership program was held at workplace competencies. This results in the participant our headquarters in Philadelphia, bringing together 25 of receiving rich insight into their strengths as well as areas our top talent employees for a multi-faceted leadership for development. Another essential feature of the Keys experience. The goals of The Keys to Leadership program to Leadership program was the action learning projects and leadership programs in general at FMC are to: which centered on real business issues and opportunities Build strong and diverse leaders who then can facing FMC. Each project was sponsored by an FMC support prolonged growth and deliver results executive. Each team worked on a project over the course of four months. Senior FMC leaders served as mentors to Enable our leaders to better understand the balance the teams. This approach exposed the teams to different between managing day-to-day priorities while also areas of our leading with vision, inspiration and authenticity business, had The Art of Leadership Asia Pacific cohort with Bethwyn Todd (FMC Asia President) them work across Increase retention and build a development culture among leaders time zones and 2 THE ART OF LEADERSHIP functions, and This cross-functional cohort of leaders engaged in collaborate on The Art of Leadership program creates the opportunity learning with sessions facilitated by external experts solutions. The for individuals who provide direction to teams through and FMC leaders. Each participant was paired with a culmination of the direct supervision, or project oversight, to confront certified coach from the human resources team, who program included preconceived notions and past practices. The curriculum provided guidance on 360 feedback and aspects of their presentations was designed for participants to recognize the impact leadership potential. 360 Degree Feedback is a process to the executive of culture on performance, and their ability to shape where employees receive confidential, anonymous leadership team. the performance of the company at all levels through feedback from the people who work with them including their actions. Each participant is compelled to reflect Keys to Leadership participants in their break-out their immediate manager, peers, customers and direct on their own leadership strengths and opportunities for group discussing their action learning project growth through experiential learning, assessments, and “ team presentations. The goals of the Art of Leadership Program are to: This training was one of the best trainings that I have ever attended in Increase participants’ emotional intelligence and FMC. Both in terms of content and impact on my management style. It abilities to tackle difficult situations within a global company brought me two great leadership learnings developing my sensitivity to understand different life perspectives/experiences and, linked to this, Enhance participants’ skills in managing change learning to be an inclusive leader by promoting diversity and leveraging and empowering leaders within their teams to achieve peak performance the talents of the whole team.” Ensure participants recognize the opportunities to Sinara Ferreira, challenge the status quo through coaching at all Commercial Director, Brazil, 2019 Art of Leadership levels within the company 18 FMC 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT “ CHAMPIONING DIVERSITY & INCLUSION Diversity & Inclusion Diversity & Inclusion is critical for WITH FMC’S SENIOR LEADERSHIP everyone to feel engaged and have a The commitment to Diversity & Inclusion starts from sense of belonging. It matters not only the top and in 2019 we spent two half-day sessions with for current employees but also for the senior leadership focused on two important aspects. next generation of employees. It is a key In the first session we used interactive theatre with professional actor-trainers to bring to life vignettes that differentiator for us. We focus on Diversity In 2019, we made significant progress on strengthening explored gender, LGBTQ+, race and intergenerational & Inclusion, not just because creating our culture of diversity and inclusion at FMC. That interactions that occur in FMC. In the second session, a diverse and inclusive workforce is the commitment continues to drive our ability to: the executive committee reviewed challenges and right thing to do, but because it makes opportunities relative to the state of people of color at FMC. The group discussed strategies for hiring people sound business sense. It is important for Create an inclusive our future success.” Identify and develop of color and focused on actions for us to accelerate culture where our the best talent workforce can thrive development for people of color within the organization. Mark Douglas, President and Chief Executive Officer Advocate inclusive Integrate diversity OUR D&I AMBITION STATEMENT REGIONAL INCLUSION COUNCILS and inclusion in our behaviors SEE YOURSELF IN FMC, BE YOURSELF IN FMC To expand the Diversity & Inclusion strategy further policies and practices into the organization, we launched three Regional We strive to be an inclusive workplace where our Inclusion Councils in 2019. The objectives of the employees reflect the community, are valued, find It is Diversity & Inclusion that differentiates us as an Inclusion Councils are to: purpose in their work, and grow and contribute to their organization and establishes our competitive advantage in the marketplace. fullest potential. ▶ Translate the global diversity and inclusion strategy “ (inclusive workplace, workforce diversity, inclusive Almond leadership, and business impact and external Prunus dulcis Our progress is exciting, but with each credentials) into regional action items in Asia Pacific (APAC), Latin America (LATAM) and Europe, new year our journey evolves and we the Middle East and Africa (EMEA) must recalibrate our efforts to avoid ▶ Unify and focus region-wide efforts on Diversity & complacency. Success only means we must Inclusion and engage Employee Resource Groups raise the bar, identify new opportunities, (ERGs) and the broader community among the and embed diversity and inclusion deeper APAC, LATAM and EMEA regions into our organizational culture.” ▶ Focus on regional and local diversity needs and align them to our business success Subarna Malakar, Director and Global Diversity & Inclusion Officer TOMORROW’S HARVEST 19 OUR EMPLOYEE RESOURCE GROUPS In 2019, we continued to evolve our Employee Resource Groups (ERGs) to better align with our business. While strengthening the core ERGs, we expanded and launched three more ERGs: i-Gen (Inter-generational), VIVID (People with Disabilities) and HONOR (Military, Veterans and families). We would like to highlight two of our Employee Human Rights Campaign: Resource Groups for bringing their mission to life 100 on Corporate Equality Index with initiatives and activities to engage and support our employees. FMC earned 100 percent on the Human Rights Campaign Foundation’s Corporate Equality Index FMC received a score of 100 percent on the Human Rights Campaign Foundation’s 2020 SPECTRUM Corporate Equality Index (CEI), the U.S.’s premier Mission: To increase the benchmarking survey and report measuring visibility of LGBTQ+ issues corporate policies and practices related to LGBTQ+ within FMC through education workplace equality. FMC joins the ranks of more and awareness initiatives. than 680 major U.S. businesses that also earned Encourage fellowship, thoughtful top marks this year. dialogue and an inclusive understanding of LGBTQ+ identity through formal and informal interaction and engagement with the FMC community at large. 2019 Highlights: 2020 ▶ Expanded our healthcare benefits to include domestic partner benefits and transgender “ inclusive benefits in the U.S. ▶ Organized two “How to be an Ally” awareness FMC has focused on driving meaningful progress in diversity and inclusion at FMC, including sessions as part of our PFLAG national partnership several significant policy changes related to parental leave and domestic partner and transgender ▶ Participated in the Philadelphia Pride Parade and inclusion benefits in the U.S. over the past several years. Creating a workplace where people feel hosted an FMC booth at the Pride Festival engaged and a sense of belonging matters for current employees and also the next generation ▶ Conducted three sessions during Pride Month to of employees and the future of our company. Our CEI score reflects the importance we place on engage allies, friends and parents of LGBTQ+ and recognizing and appreciating each other’s differences so that all our employees around the world talk about how to be a supportive ally can grow and contribute to their fullest potential.” Pierre Brondeau, Executive Chairman 20 FMC 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT WOMEN’S INITIATIVE NETWORK WIN launched the Women in STEM chapter during 2019. Previously referred to as Women in Engineering, Women in STEM has been expanded to bring Mission: To raise the profile of women together women across all STEM fields – science, technology, engineering, at FMC encouraging well-being, education, and mathematics. The focus of the group is to: development and networking in the workplace. ▶ Share information, best practices, skills, and experiences in science, technology, engineering and math fields 2019 Highlights: ▶ Connect women across FMC through a mentorship program and events ▶ Organized a learning and development initiative called “Day in ▶ Help FMC achieve its strategic goals through programs and activities the Life of” showcasing employees on what they do day-to-day to that promote mentoring, employee recruitment and retention, career bring more exposure and visibility of their roles and themselves development and cultural awareness ▶ “ Invited local police officers to discuss personal safety ▶ Conducted other programs such as speed networking, For me personally, the opportunity to be a co-chair for WIN has increased my awareness lunch with leaders, career panels with local universities and community outreach to local non-profits. WIN also brought around leading diverse people with different views and life experience. The opportunity together all the regional WIN chapters for the International to lead and see our team grow and drive such an impressive, impactful year has been Women’s Day events and the Inclusion Month celebration truly rewarding.” ▶ Organized all the regional WIN chapters to be together for the International Women’s Day events and Inclusion Month celebration Tiffany Kung, Global R&D Scientist, Ecotoxicology and WIN Global Co-Chair THE BRIDGE I-GEN NEW GENERATION Mission: To showcase and provide Mission: To leverage multi-generational Mission: To create a D&I a community for the various ethnic differences and commonalities for personal culture within Cork Shared cultures across FMC, which in turn and professional growth to attract and retain Services centered on core help recruit and retain talent. To talent that enhances FMC’s strength in values and committed to bring cultural awareness to the diversity and inclusion in the marketplace. inclusion and excellence. FMC workforce in regions where Thereby, the iGen Network will serve to we operate and to provide insight into best practices when develop, connect, and empower employees from all generations to working with various cultures. have a voice and cultivate leadership within FMC. VIVID HONOR Mission: To foster an environment that supports FMC employees and their Mission: To promote veterans, family and friends of the military in families who have a disability. The VIVID network strives to raise awareness their careers at FMC and to help FMC recruit and retain employees about the unique needs and talents of individuals living with disabilities who are veterans. It will also provide members a way to engage, and helps to ensure all employees and partners are accepted, valued and collaborate and learn from others with shared experiences. treated fairly in all communities. TOMORROW’S HARVEST 21 “ INCLUSIVE LEADERSHIP SESSIONS Being involved in FMC’s truly global FMC values employee diversity and aims to foster an International Women’s Day was an inclusive environment in which all employees with amazing and humbling experience. different backgrounds and experiences are valued, Speaking on a company-wide stage for respected and encouraged to contribute to their fullest the first time, while daunting, was so potential. One of the ways we do that is to build the competencies of managers and employees to advocate rewarding. I’ve had employees come up to inclusive behavior in our organization. In these sessions, me, even months later, and express how our employees learned about the benefits of inclusive much the panelists sharing their stories leadership, including the positive impact it can have on resonated with them personally.” employee engagement, innovation and creativity. We conducted 18 face-to-face sessions and trained over 900 INTERNATIONAL WOMEN’S DAY 2020 Stephanie Herring, Senior Associate Scientist, leaders, managers and employees in all of our regions FMC joined the global celebration of International Women’s Initiative Network Global Co-Chair around the world. The training was based on Deloitte’s Women’s Day in March, raising awareness of the need Six signature traits of inclusive leadership white paper for gender equality and #EachforEqual worldwide. and focused on those key strengths of inclusive leaders: Across all of our regions, employees celebrated this Cognizance of Bias, Curiosity, Collaboration, Courage, special day and took part in activities that included Commitment and Cultural Intelligence. presentations, panel discussions and lunch-and-learn sessions focused on gender, diversity and inclusion. We also launched ‘Women Who Rock’ and ‘Men Advocating Real Change’, an internal employee engagement and recognition campaign to celebrate the phenomenal women in FMC and highlight remarkable men who are advocates of gender diversity. The WIN Core Leadership team celebrating International Women’s Day 2019 FMC Total Workforce 36% 33% 25% 25% 29% by Region + Gender FMC supports a global and diverse North EMEA Latin Asia Pacific Global workforce. Our total workforce includes America America 6,236 full-time regular employees globally as of December 31, 2019. Females Males 64% 67% 75% 75% 71% 22 FMC 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT WOMEN IN SENIOR MANAGEMENT FMC was ranked 128 out of 500 companies globally on the Forbes list of The World’s Best (Grade 25+) Employers. The list is curated by Forbes, in partnership with Statista, a statistical analysis We made good progress in 2019 with a 4 percent company and is based on 1.4 million employment recommendations pulled from increase in women in senior management due to our global polls and regional surveys. The global respondents are asked multiple questions D&I strategy, action plans and commitment from our regarding their employer and whether they would recommend their company to a senior leaders. While these results are good, we have friend or family member. more work to do. We have initially focused on women in leadership roles and commit to continue to increase our number of female leaders. We are also now developing plans to increase female representation in our overall FMC dedicated the month of October to provide ▶ Keynote: Celebrating National Disability employee population. awareness, education, and engagement to its employees Employment Awareness Month – Eric Alva and to commemorate its ongoing commitment to ▶ Global World Café Week – Understanding our Diversity & Inclusion. FMC marked the importance of cultures through food 2018 28% diversity in the workplace and the continued success we hope to see in the future. Each week of the month, FMC The regional teams put together 82 regional events hosted global events that included all employees at their 2019 32% respective regional sites as well as global broadcasts with thousands of employees engaged and more than 300,000 social media online impressions (views, Percentage of Women in Senior Management from FMC Tower. Speakers featured throughout interactions, engagement). the month engaged with employees about real-life experiences on their journeys to becoming advocators INCLUSION MONTH: for diversity and inclusion. We had overwhelming success as we hosted several activities and events across all of our regions with four global events: ▶ Keynote: Why Representation is Only the Beginning for People of Color – Tara Jaye Frank ▶ Keynote: When Someone Comes Out: Demonstrating Support and Acceptance – Jean-Marie Navetta TOMORROW’S HARVEST 23 our PRODUCTS Alvaro Luiz Dilli Gonçalves, HR and Sustainability Officer “ We must understand growers are dependent on the quality of their air, water and soil. If I don’t preserve our soil, the environment, water springs, our dams, then our company will cease to exist. We must have a long-term view. And why should we do this? Because our planet has no plan B.” – Alvaro Luiz Dilli Gonçalves, HR and Sustainability Officer, SLC AGRÍCOLA S/A (A major grower and customer of FMC) Read Alvaro’s full interview on www.FMCsustainability.com/voices SCIENCE TO GROW In 2019, we advanced two new products to INNOVATION GOALS PROGRESS development. The first is a herbicide featuring a new Helping farmers produce more food, feed, fiber and mode of action that controls a broad spectrum of fuel for a growing world population is a tall order. FMC R&D Spend on Sustainably Advantaged Products broadleaf and grass weeds, gives growers flexibility in Growers rely on many tools to help meet this challenge, application timing, and is safe for corn, soybeans and goal of 100% by 2025 but nothing is more important than having the right other crops. The second is an insecticide that controls technologies to combat threats of disease, insects and insects such as aphids that can destroy soybeans, weeds. Any one of these invasive threats can impact cereals, vegetables, cotton, corn and many other yields and potentially destroy a farmer’s crops in a high-value crops. Today, we have 22 new proprietary matter of days. A continuing stream molecules in our award-winning synthetic pipeline, with 14 featuring new modes of action for the crop to which 87% 93% of new molecules and they are applied. Our scientists are biased to discover R&D SPEND R&D SPEND products help growers new modes of action, which provide additional benefits protect their crops 2018 2019 to growers, including: against these threats. As resistance to older technologies increases, modern ▶ Controlling pests that are resistant to products solutions with new modes of action are critical to currently on the market. successful and sustainable farming. Note: A sustainably advantaged product is one that ▶ Maintaining product efficacy longer by providing positively impacts at least one of the six major Global more tools for growers to rotate different modes Our target is to advance one new patented synthetic Challenges: Food Expectations, Health and Safety of action during a season, known as Integrated active ingredient every year on average from the Expectations, Environmental Consciousness, Climate Pest Management. discovery pipeline to development. Change, Scarce Resources and Land Competition, but ▶ Potentially lower use rates than existing products, does not retreat in any of the five other areas. supporting a stronger sustainability profile. Lemon Citrus limon TOMORROW’S HARVEST 25 Plant Health the nine founding members of the organization. The vision of the organization is to support the growth Biological Nematicides of plant biologicals in agriculture to adapt to the FMC’s Quartzo® and Presence® nematicides have Biologicals represent a diverse group of plant protection societal and environmental challenges of today. been significantly improving the lives of growers products derived from microorganisms and other In 2019, FMC played a key role at the annual Plant across Brazil. Nematodes are responsible for naturally occurring materials. FMC discovers and Biologicals Symposium in Denmark which focused significant crop losses where they occur. Not develops biologicals in its Plant Health business, which on applied research and development in areas where only can these products greatly reduce the has grown significantly in the last several years. plant biologicals might be part of the solution to threat of nematodes, but they also have the Today, we are working on new bioinsecticides, agricultural challenges and climate change. FMC’s secondary benefits of plant growth promotion, bionematicides, biofungicides and biostimulants at our EMEA Regulatory and Development leader, Charlotte improved soil quality in certain crops through European Innovation Center in Hørsholm, Denmark. Klank, was a key speaker who presented FMC’s increased microbial activity and increased These biological products feature new modes of action experience with developing microbial products plant drought resistance. In 2019, Quartzo® and and excellent sustainability profiles. Biologicals offer that have a consistent efficacy and addressed key Presence® won Agriscience Intelligence’s Best benefits beyond their environmental profile. They can considerations when introducing biological products New Biological (Biopesticide) Product award. help plants overcome difficult growing conditions, fight to the market. disease and even assist in regulating the plant’s uptake of nutrients and use of limited water. Plant Biologicals Network was established to facilitate knowledge exchange on research, innovation, regulation, and education Bionematicides can protect plant roots from nematode infection Charlotte Klank (Regulatory & through multiple modes of action including biofilm formation. within the field of plant biologicals. FMC is one of Development Leader, Plant Health) European Innovation Center, Denmark Three years ago, we established our European Innovation Center (EIC) in Hørsholm, Denmark, to accelerate in-house biological discovery and screening. At the EIC, scientists isolate natural microbes from soil and screen them for unique biopesticide or biostimulant solutions. In 2019 we expanded our facility to include state-of-the-art fermentation and downstream processing equipment. The new EIC pilot plant fermenters enable FMC to do its own process development and efficiently scale-up volumes of material for biological evaluation in the field. Stavros Kalafatakis, Research Scientist, using the newly installed fermentation processing equipment at EIC, Denmark. 26 FMC 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SOIL HEALTH Improving and maintaining soil health is vital in promoting a other countries in the Asia-Pacific Region including China, Korea and sustainable food system. In 2015, we launched the Dr Soil™ Mobile Indonesia. In Indonesia, we launched the Dr Soil™ compact ‘Mobike kits’ lab soil testing service in Pakistan that allows farmers to complete so FMC employees can transport the lab more cost-effectively using a a soil fertility test on their fields and equips them with essential soil motorcycle allowing greater farmer reach. In 2019, FMC was a recipient science knowledge. This initiative enables farmers to have a deeper of the Agribusiness Intelligence Crop Science Forum and Awards Best understanding of soil science and shift many out of unsustainable Stewardship Program for the Dr Soil™ Mobile lab. farming practices. We educated approximately 100,000 farmers through the Dr Soil™ program in 2019 and expanded the program to many Dr SoilTM Mobike Kit GROWER PERSPECTIVES THE FUTURE OF BIOLOGICALLY BASED CROP SOLUTIONS Accudo® bio-stimulant was developed to enhance crop growth in vegetables and fruits such as tomatoes, red FMC’s journey into biological pesticides and biopeppers, cucumbers and strawberries. The product stimulants has just begun. We have submitted four enhances crop growth by increasing phosphorus biological strain registration dossiers to the European solubility in the soil. It was also developed to have a Union for approval. This achievement is a key milestone significantly lower dosage rate (approximately 1 liter to develop and commercialize a first wave of biological per hectare) compared to competitive products in the solutions with fungicidal or nematicidal properties that “ market. We designed Accudo® bio-stimulant with a twohelp address the increased demand for zero residues on year shelf life whereas other biologicals in the market food. Furthermore, registration submissions have also typically have a shelf-life of approximately one year. The Accudo® bio-stimulant helps plants take been made in the U.S., Latin America and Asia Pacific extended shelf life minimizes the risk of dealing with up nutrients better. So, crops become countries for several biological products. expired product, avoiding financial losses for growers healthier, which ultimately leads to higher and also reduces costs and emissions associated with yields. This year is much better than last year. So many of my tangerines are marketable. destroying obsolete product. Last year, I harvested about 20,000kg of fruit. This year I estimate about 30,000kg. Much of my success this year can be attributed to the product.” Mr Sun-Gwon So, Grower, Sae-mi Farm, Jeju, South Korea TOMORROW’S HARVEST 27 Precision Agriculture As growers desire more visibility into the health of their fields and will plug into the systems that our growers are already using to more precise tools to manage their crops, FMC is evolving our provide easy access to information. We are dedicated to providing portfolio to address the changing needs of our customers. Our our customers with the best technologies to combat threats of Precision Agriculture solutions enable growers and their advisors disease, insects and weeds. to operate more effectively and sustainably through the power of data and machine learning. FMC is currently working with cotton growers in Greece to help predict bollworm pressure using ArcTM farm intelligence. For over 75 years, FMC has been providing agronomic insights to In other countries, including Brazil, Spain and the United States, our customers. Data-powered tools offer a clearer picture of our the platform is being piloted on a broad range of crops from customers’ unique needs and pest issues, enabling us to provide brassicas to corn to lettuce. the crop protection advice our customers rely on in faster, easier, Soybean and smarter ways. Precision agriculture solutions from FMC Glycine max Arc™ Farm Intelligence FMC’s Arc™ farm intelligence enables growers to monitor insects and make pest management decisions with a higher level of precision and confidence. This proprietary mobile platform is a first in the agricultural industry to deliver real-time data that predicts insect pressure one week in advance with more than 90 percent confidence for key insects to help growers protect yields. For key pests, Arc™ farm intelligence provides pest pressure forecasts based on aggregated historical data, hyper-local weather data and real-time regional pest mapping. The digital interface provides customized alerts for growers to manage scouting, indicate when action is needed and recommend treatment options. This solution results in decreased environmental impact by allowing farmers to spray at the right time to address pest pressure. Furthermore, these early detection systems can manage infestations before they escalate and, in the long run, can help delay pest resistance issues through more effective and targeted product application. 28 FMC 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Product Highlight Xyway TM 3D fungicide In North America, we recently received U.S. EPA approval FMC will conduct large-scale farmer testing of for Xyway™ 3D fungicide. This new at-plant fungicide is Xyway™ 3D fungicide in corn in 2020. FMC anticipates formulated for use with our 3RIVE 3D® application system. commercially launching the fungicide in 2021 and is also evaluating its application in other crops. For the first time, growers with 3RIVE 3D® application systems will be able to make at-plant fungicide applications for control of various foliar corn diseases such as Grey Leaf Spot and Northern Corn Leaf Blight. Global Specialty Solutions FMC’s expertise in pest control extends beyond agriculture to include professional (turf, ornamental and structural pests), consumer (home, lawn and garden) and environmental management (vector control) sectors. FMC’s Global Specialty Solutions (GSS) business aims to be a global leader in protecting public health and Scion™ with UVX™ Technology – improving quality of life through sustainable innovation. Keeping people safe from diseases and pests In 2019, FMC launched Scion™ insecticide Untreated Check XywayTM 3D fungicide PROFESSIONAL 11.2 fl. oz./A at plant with UVX technology. Scion™ protects households from pests and vectors such as cockroaches, mosquitoes and ticks. It is Using the 3RIVE 3D® application system, Xyway™ engineered to provide immediate control and 3D fungicide is placed in the soil near the seed in maintain a continuous residual even when a concentrated ribbon of foam where the active faced with harsh surfaces, high temperatures ingredient is taken up throughout the season by the GSS SECTORS and intense sunlight. These features make root system. This results in lower worker exposure, lower Scion™ ideal for long service intervals, tough volume applications, better coverage, more consistent pests or areas that face extreme conditions. control and better plant uptake with less planter weight and less water. Scion™ is powered by gamma-cyhalothrin, the CONSUMER ENVIRONMENTAL most efficient pyrethroid active ingredient. MANAGEMENT Gamma-cyhalothrin has the lowest use rate compared to other pyrethroids in the market. FMC’s 3RIVE 3D® application system TOMORROW’S HARVEST 29 Apple Malus domestica Product Stewardship Projects Overview MANAGING PRODUCT CUSTOMER EMPLOYEE ADVERSE STEWARDSHIP LABEL REVIEWS TRAINING TRAINING INCIDENTS DUE DILIGENCE Revamp customer Train employees to Assess emergency Define process to conduct Develop label review training materials increase awareness response telephone Stewardship assessments on process and conduct Product Stewardship to promote Good about Product numbers on labels products, to identify potential product stewardship Agricultural Practices Stewardship and and SDS risks and implement mitigation reviews for all to farmers and retailers leverage their knowledge measures to prevent incidents country labels Product stewardship is a key component of FMC’s sustainability core value. We continue to strive for open and transparent communications about our product stewardship successes and challenges. PROJECT SAFFAL – In last year’s report we outlined our stewardship STEWARDSHIP THROUGH COLLABORATION strategic pillars – processes, engagement, measuring and monitoring. We are now focusing on The Fall Armyworm (FAW) pest has been a serious concern for the projects which will help identify any issues and farmers throughout India. Originating in South America and gaps and then work towards successful mitigating spreading across Africa, the pest was confirmed in India in 2018. solutions. Two important issues being addressed With no natural predators, the pest has now spread to 20 states by FMC and CropLife International are training and has greatly impacted India’s corn production, affecting the programs for farmers on the importance of personal food security of millions who rely on the crop for daily nutrition. protective equipment (PPE) when applying products and good management practices for In May 2019, FMC India collaborated with the South Asia empty product containers. Biotechnology Centre to launch Project SAFFAL (Safeguarding Agriculture and Farmers against Fall Armyworm) to educate In India, recognizing that training is just one method farmers on FAW. In its first year, Project SAFFAL reached over for encouraging farmers to adopt responsible use 7,000 farmers through dedicated training workshops across of our products, we initiated a pilot program using 11 states and has collaborated with numerous public sector the principles of behavioral science. In this program, institutions, retailers and students. members of our marketing and sales teams were trained on how to use behavioral science to improve In August 2019, Project SAFFAL launched the fallarmyworm.org.in their engagement with farmers in ways that can website which is a dedicated portal on FAW with a repository of trigger positive changes in their behavior. The information on FAW education, sustainable control strategies program focused on the use of PPE by farmers when and FAW alerts. using our products and the application of products Project SAFFAL is pivotal to the FAW campaign in India and at the correct dosage to optimize performance. has contributed significantly to capacity building, knowledge transfer and engagement among farmers, retailers, industry, An example of communication materials for Project SAFFAL scientists, academia and government officials. 30 FMC 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FMC CHINA RECOGNIZED AS LEADER IN ENGAGING GROWERS IN THE ANDEAN REGION PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP In 2019, the Andean Region Stewardship Program At the 6th Summit Forum of Pesticide Safety and utilized the 7 Habits of Responsibility during the Scientific Use organized by the China Crop Protection Handling and Use of Pesticides program to engage Industry Association (CCPIA), FMC China was recognized customers on Good Agricultural Practices to help for three awards: protect their health and the environment. Trainers from around the region conducted hands-on ▶ 2019 Excellent Crop Health Management workshops to share these best practices. Since its Solution Award – Coragen® insecticide and 稻青青 inception, the program has trained over 12,000 farmers (DQQ) herbicide throughout the Andean region including Ecuador, ▶ 2019 Product Safety and Scientific Use, Colombia and Peru. After each training session, a Particpants at the Handling and Use of Pesticides Program in Sonson Outstanding Company Award – FMC was sample of participants were tested to ensure a proper Antioquia, Ecuador recognized by industry experts for its efforts in understanding of the concepts shared. conducting safety and scientific use training. FMC China has been working closely with government In 2019, FMC received official commendation from authorities to organize more the Ecuadorian Agrocalidad – Agencia de Regulación Highly Hazardous Pesticides than 1,300 training sessions on 1,300 product safety use, which has y Control Fito y Zoosanitario (Agricultural Regulation and Control Agency for Plant and Animal Health) FMC is continuing to phase out Highly Hazardous TRAINING SESSIONS reached about 55,000 people, Pesticides (HHPs) from our product portfolio. We for stewardship efforts in the Handling and Use of ON PRODUCT including farmers, retailers evaluate HHPs using the criteria and process defined by SAFETY USE Pesticides program. and distributors. Content the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization includes how to read labels, (FAO) which is the globally accepted regulatory how to correctly use pesticides, how to implement classification scheme. At the end of 2019 we ceased sales the use of personal protective equipment, how to of carbofuran in the few remaining countries where it lower resistance risk and how to protect pollinators. was sold. We currently have eight HHPs remaining in our In addition, FMC was lauded for its exemplary portfolio and are identifying those to be phased out over role in promoting the safety of the farmer-field the next two years. In 2020, these eight HHPs account environment, increasing pesticide use efficiency and for less than 0.5 percent of projected global sales. Risk utilization rate, as well as contributing to the healthy assessments and product stewardship programs for and sustainable development of the entire industry. the remaining HHPs in the specific countries of sales ▶ 2019 Product Safety and Scientific Use Model continues so we are aware of any issues that may occur Worker Award – Xinlan Zhao, FMC’s Technical and can address them immediately. Services representative Participant testing for the Handling and Use of Pesticides program was in Shandong Province, conducted through a picture-based multiple-choice questionnaire with the Utilization of our Product Stewardship and Sustainability option for participants to take the test in written or oral format. was recognized for her Assessment tool ensures that we screen out potential outstanding work in HHPs early in the development process of new products. training stakeholders Our commitment is steadfast to not develop or sell any on the safe use of new HHPs. pesticides. She was selected from both government and private sector employees. TOMORROW’S HARVEST 31 Tessa Scown, Global Regulatory Ecotoxicologist our PROGRESS “ As a company, we need to ensure the sustainability and safety of our products to maintain the right to operate. Environmental standards may well be more stringent in the future. If we stretch ourselves and work towards higher standards now, we are setting ourselves up to continue to succeed in the future.” – Tessa Scown, Global Regulatory Ecotoxicologist, FMC Corporation Read Tessa’s full interview on www.FMCsustainability.com/voices COMMUNITY EVENTS AROUND THE GLOBE ASIA Sugarcane Saccharum officinarum Lahore, Pakistan – Rural Women’s Initiative The Rural Women’s Initiative was launched in 2018. The program trains FMC sales personnel to raise awareness on a variety of topics regarding the role of women in the workforce. Through daily meetings with farmers, our sales personnel present ways in Community Engagement which women’s education can benefit society. These meetings are often with rural leaders who are almost We strive to impact the communities that surround us in positive ways. To exclusively men. To date, 100,000 farmers have monitor this, all manufacturing facilities and select R&D facilities report on participated in these presentations. their community engagement activities quarterly. Their activities are measured quantitatively using the Community Engagement (CE) Index*. Other facilities such Singapore – Willing Hearts Soup Kitchen as regional offices and shared service centers are also encouraged to give back to FMC Singapore volunteered at the Willing Hearts their surrounding communities and are monitored qualitatively. Soup Kitchen, a volunteer-run organization that prepares, cooks and distributes 6,000 meals a day to 2019 COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT INDEX RESULTS over 40 locations across the island. Beneficiaries include the elderly, the disabled, low-income families, children from single-parent families or poverty-stricken families and migrant workers in 2019 Results on Community Singapore. Twenty volunteers from Asia Pacific’s Engagement Index and progress 90 81 regional headquarters and the Tuas plant spent the day washing dishes and preparing food. towards COMMUNITY COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT ENGAGEMENT goal of 100 2018 2019 EUROPE by 2025 Uffholtz, France – Beehive Program Through partnership with the urban beekeeping The CE score was slightly lower in 2019 as we added sites following the acquisition project, APIS City 68, our Uffholtz manufacturing of part of the DuPont crop chemical business. In total, all sites included in the CE facility installed three beehives on site in early 2019 metric organized a total of 240 events across the world. In the coming year, we will to encourage sustainable beekeeping practices and be working with each site to deepen their community impact and ensure they are support pollinator health. The project culminated working to understand the needs of their communities. with “Bee Day” on October 1, 2019 that included a talk, exhibition and honey sampling for all employees. *The Community Engagement goal and metric are detailed on page 4. TOMORROW’S HARVEST 33 NORTH AMERICA cleaning supplies, groceries and household items while the plant donated two generators to the Middleport, New York – cause. The effort was done in collaboration with the Community Food Pantry local State Emergency Management and Disaster FMC Middleport employees recently partnered with Administration Agency. the Middleport Area Community Food Pantry to collect and donate nearly 1,000 pounds of food to LATIN AMERICA help those in need during the spring holiday season. The pantry serves more than 60 local families on a Barra Mansa, Brazil ongoing basis. FMC employees worked alongside Twenty-four students from the University of the State Local 1180 of the International Association of of São Paulo Guaratinguetá Faculty of Engineering Machinists and Aerospace Workers and FMC plant visited FMC’s Barra Mansa production facility for management. “Our entire FMC Middleport team was a day of learning to gain industry experience and very generous in collecting and contributing such a ignite their passion for engineering and STEM fields. large volume of food for use by the Middleport Area Lectures were presented on industry best practices Community Food Pantry,” said Dr. Roberta Kloda, FMC and career advice in production, technology and Middleport plant manager. “We are very fortunate Environmental Health and Safety sectors. Students and know how important it is to share with those in were also exposed to continuous improvement our community who are in need.” tools such as lean six sigma. The event culminated Philadelphia, Pennsylvania – with students joining hands with FMC employees to Philadelphia Science Carnival plant 35 trees on-site that are native to Brazil’s Mata Atlantica region. Over the years, FMC employees have In 2019, FMC became the Presenting Sponsor collaborated both internally and with various student of the Philadelphia Science Carnival, an annual groups to plant more than 20,000 native trees on-site. celebration in which the region’s leading scientific, educational and cultural institutions collaborate to Campinas, Brazil – create unique events to inspire passion for science Varal da Solidariedade in the Philadelphia community. With this increased Through the Varal da Solidariedade (Solidarity sponsorship, we took our presence on the Benjamin Clothesline) program, FMC Brazil employees Franklin Parkway to the next level and recruited over exchanged Christmas cards made by students cared 70 employees to help make this day special through for by local NGO Primavera. Primavera provides engaging, hands-on activities. afterschool education and professional help for children aged 6-18 and their families in Campinas, Manati, Puerto Rico São Paulo. Approximately 1,500 pounds of food and In September 2019, 60 employees of FMC’s Manati toys were also collected by FMC employees and were manufacturing site responded swiftly to gather distributed to students at Primavera. supplies for the Hurricane Dorian relief effort for the Bahamas. Employees rallied together to collect 34 FMC 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Rapeseed Brassica napus subsp. napus 2019 | Environmental Results FMC measures and reports our environmental footprint on an intensity basis – i.e., energy (in gigajoule), GHG emissions 2019 RESULTS 2030 GOAL FMC CORPORATION (tonne CO2 equivalent), waste disposed (tonne), and water use at high-risk locations (cubic meter) per tonne of product. (Compared to (Compared to METRIC 2018 Baseline) 2018 Baseline) The table to the left shows progress towards our environmental reduction targets at the end of 2019. The metrics include all the DuPont sites we acquired in November 2017 but excludes all Lithium sites (now known as Livent) that were separated in March 2019. Significant intensity reductions were achieved for all environmental metrics against our 2030 Energy intensity -14% -25% Sustainability Goals. This was primarily due to efficiency and yield improvements, reduced unplanned shutdowns and increased total production of 11 percent in 2019 compared to baseline year 2018. We also shifted product mix towards GHG emissions intensity -14% -25% producing products that utilized less resources. In addition, we initiated several sustainability related projects to reduce energy and water usage and reduce waste generation for disposal. Such measures have also reduced our absolute energy usage, GHG emissions, water usage and waste disposed amounts. The charts below include environmental Sustain to Waste disposed intensity -12% metrics for FMC sites (all FMC-owned manufacturing sites and the FMC Stine Research Center), active ingredient 2018 intensity contract manufacturing sites and independent companies (see next page for further detail). Water use intensity -24% -20% For further details on our environmental progress, please visit www.FMCsustainability.com at high-risk locations Global Energy Use Global GHG Emissions Global Waste Disposed Global High-Risk Water Use High Risk Water Use, Thousand Cubic Meters High-Risk Water Use Intensity, Cubic Meter/MT 5.0 20 400 1.5 53 600 355 4.0 4.5 18 350 52 3.5 Total Waste Disposed, K-Tonnes Waste Disposed Intensity, kg/MT 1.3 350 GHG Intensity, Tonnes CO2e/MT 500 4.0 16 51 Energy Intensity, GJ/MT 300 3.0 Total Energy Use, KTJ 1.1 GHG, K-Tonnes C02e 3.5 345 14 50 400 3.0 250 2.5 12 0.9 49 340 2.5 200 300 2.0 10 0.7 48 335 2.0 150 1.5 8 47 200 1.5 0.5 330 100 1.0 1.0 6 46 0.3 100 50 325 0.5 0.5 4 45 0 2 0 0.1 44 320 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 Notes about Environmental Data: 1. In 2019, energy, GHG emissions, water, waste and production data for legacy FMC and legacy DuPont were externally assured. In the chart FMC Independent Companies above, they are combined and referred to as ‘FMC’. 2. In 2019, the external assurance did not include the active ingredient contract manufacturing sites. Active Ingredient FMC Intensity 3. The intensity calculations above only include data from FMC-owned facilities and do not include footprint data from active ingredient Contract Manufacturing contract manufacturers and independent companies. 4. The environmental footprint from active ingredient contract manufacturing sites includes energy, GHG emissions and waste disposed. Water use at high risk locations is not reported at this time. TOMORROW’S HARVEST 35 ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT processes to use more concentrated reactants and 1▶ Energy – Energy intensity increased by 13 percent reduced production of a waste intensive product. We compared to the 2018 baseline. In early 2019, operations FMC has a network of manufacturing sites that synthesize have also undertaken projects to divert certain waste at two contract manufacturing sites based in China active ingredients (AIs) and perform the final steps of streams for beneficial end use. For example, at our Mobile, were suspended following a fire and explosion at a product formulation, mixing and packaging. We also Alabama, site we are working with an external partner separate facility approximately half a kilometer away. conduct extensive R&D activities to develop sustainable on a process to recover and reuse valuable solvent Through this suspension of production, energy was still products for the future. The environmental footprint of from one of our waste streams. In 2019, these measures consumed to keep the facilities in operational condition resulted in a reduction of total waste disposed (waste to and to comply with the local government regulations to these sites is tracked on a monthly basis. As growers’ needs incinerator, landfill, external disposal and waste water) keep waste treatment facilities running. This resulted in change and pest pressures increase, we adjust our AI by 1 percent and waste disposed intensity by 12 percent overall increase in energy intensity. product mix to address these challenges for our customers. compared to our 2018 baseline. 2▶ GHG Emissions – GHG emissions intensity increased by In 2019, we set new 2030 environmental goals for FMC4▶ Water In 2019, we reassessed our sites as defined by 7 percent compared to the 2018 baseline. A favorable owned sites to reflect the changes to our business with the World Resources Institute (WRI) aqueduct tool energy mix (higher proportion of electricity compared the acquisition of the DuPont Crop Protection Business version 2.1. WRI uses 11 key water indicators to assess the to steam) resulted in a lower increase in GHG intensity and the separation of the FMC Lithium business (see risk level of a site. Eleven of our manufacturing sites fall compared to energy intensity. within the mediumto high-risk zones based on the key page 5 for more details). Sites work both independently 3▶ Waste – Waste disposed intensity remained relatively water indicators (e.g., baseline water stress, groundwater and in collaboration with FMC’s Technology Center flat compared to 2018, increasing only by 1 percent. table decline, wastewater and sanitation management). and sustainability team to determine strategies to The marginal increase was due to the suspension of After an internal assessment of each of the 11 sites, we consistently improve our resource utilization. production activity at two of our sites, as mentioned above. do not anticipate any significant issues in the near term. However, we will continue to closely monitor these FMC-OWNED SITES sites. In 2019, we achieved a 6 percent reduction in INDEPENDENT COMPANIES absolute water use and a 24 percent reduction in water 1▶ Energy – In 2019, we completed energy audits at At select FMC-owned manufacturing sites, independent intensity at these sites compared to our 2018 baseline. two AI sites and one R&D site. As a result of these companies operate within our premises and use FMCWe achieved this primarily through steam condensate audits, we have invested in energy-efficient process owned utilities and waste treatment facilities. These recovery improvements at our Manatí, Puerto Rico, site. equipment, heating, ventilation, and air conditioning As part of the project, we improved the collection of companies are not under FMC’s operational control and (HVAC) systems and boiler replacements. In 2019, we condensate generated by heating processes and the are therefore excluded from our 2030 environmental also experienced minimal unexpected disruptions ability to reuse it as boiler feedwater. goals. However, as they reside within our physical compared to 2018. This resulted in a reduction in absolute energy use by 4 percent and energy intensity boundary, their energy footprint is included with our by 14 percent compared to our 2018 baseline. FMC ACTIVE INGREDIENT CONTRACT Scope 1 emissions as per the GHG protocol. 2▶ GHG Emissions – In 2019, reduction in GHG emission MANUFACTURING SITES CONTINUED PROGRESS intensity was achieved primarily through reducing FMC works with several third-party contract manufacturing energy usage, as described in the previous section. sites to synthesize select AIs and intermediate products. Making progress on these goals requires identification In 2019, we achieved a reduction in absolute GHG and implementation of projects to reduce our These sites are not under FMC’s operational control emissions by 4 percent and GHG intensity by 14 percent environmental footprint. In 2019, FMC reset its and thus excluded from our 2030 environmental goals. compared to our 2018 baseline. environmental goals to reflect our current business. However, we work closely with them to monitor their 3▶ Waste In 2019, our manufacturing sites produced environmental footprint. FMC helps these sites achieve In the past year, we have also aggressively engaged hazardous waste, non-hazardous process waste and nonan improved environmental footprint through upgraded internal and external technical resources to develop a hazardous non-process waste (primarily office waste). technology and capital investment. project pipeline that will help us achieve the ambitious During this time, we improved our manufacturing environmental goals we have set for 2030. 36 FMC 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Remediation and Beneficial Development activities began in late 2019. FMC also received the necessary approvals from the local PORTLAND HARBOR Reuse of our Legacy Sites environmental regulatory agency to allow for the The 1964 aerial photograph below shows the former FMC barge and railcar manufacturing facility located on second phase of redevelopment on another 17 acres of As a 138-year-old chemical company, FMC has evolved the Willamette River in Portland, Oregon. FMC owned the FMC property to begin in 2020, which will include significantly. Remediating former industrial areas, and operated this facility until approximately 1985 but mixed use residential, retail and transit. In 2020, FMC particularly older sites, are complex initiatives that it continues to be operated by other parties today. will begin the final phase of remediation retail on the often take decades to complete. FMC’s approach Due to FMC’s historical use of this property, the U.S. remaining land, which will be converted into a public to remediation focuses on transforming these sites Environmental Protection Agency has named FMC as park. The remedy selected for the park area in 2019 where possible, into usable spaces where people and one of hundreds of “Potentially Responsible Parties” for will involve treating contaminants in-place, thereby ecosystems can thrive. Here are examples of three sites the Portland Harbor Superfund Site, an approximately significantly reducing waste generation, GHG emissions that are in various stages of completion: 10-mile portion of the lower Willamette River. The U.S. and worker/public safety hazards compared with off-site EPA recently announced an objective to begin the design transportation and disposal. Investing in remediation NEWARK, CALIFORNIA of the remedy for the entire superfund site in 2020. To to residential use standards, which are more stringent support U.S. EPA’s goal of accelerating cleanup at the The conceptual design than those for industrial use, will allow for beneficial site, FMC voluntarily entered into an Administrative to the left represents reuse of this former manufacturing site to help meet Order on Consent with U.S. EPA in late 2019 to perform the planned mixed the growing demand for housing in the San Francisco remedial design for a portion of the river adjacent to use residential Bay Area. the former FMC facility, despite the fact that the other and commercial parties with significant current or former operations in redevelopment MIDDLEPORT, NEW YORK this area have not agreed to participate. Design efforts on a portion of On June 7, 2019, FMC entered into a new Order on will begin in 2020 and will take several years to complete a former FMC Consent and Administrative Settlement with the New at which point U.S. EPA will negotiate new agreements property in Alameda York State Department of Environmental Conservation with responsible parties to perform the remedy County, California. (NYSDEC). This Order outlines activities and implementation. In addition to U.S. EPA, the remedial Redevelopment of the responsibilities related to the remediation of both ondesign will be performed under the oversight of the entire FMC property and off-site areas that have been impacted by historical Oregon Department of Environmental Quality and several into a mixed-use area operations at our Middleport, New York, manufacturing Native American tribes. The State of Oregon and the City including residential plant. Settlement between FMC and NYSDEC of Portland have agreed to provide partial funding. Contractors performing soil remediation at Newark site buildings, retail space, concludes litigation between the parties, places FMC a neighborhood and the community in a positive position for effective park and a transportation hub is part of a broader clean-up, and ensures the FMC Middleport plant can development plan established by the city. FMC is continue to operate without disruption. As the NYSDEC performing the remediation of the property in phases to continues with its ongoing residential remediation expedite redevelopment and support the city’s plan. activities through 2020, FMC is preparing to safely and successfully take over off-site clean-up work in 2021. FMC completed soil remediation to meet residential use standards on approximately 33 acres of this 40-acre site in 2017-2018. In 2019, FMC sold approximately 17 acres of the property for the first phase of redevelopment. TOMORROW’S HARVEST 37 ASSURANCE STATEMENT We planned and performed our work to obtain all information and explanations that we believe were necessary to provide a basis for our assurance conclusions. INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT TO FMC CORPORATION A multi-disciplinary team of EHS and assurance specialists performed the following activities: ERM Certification and Verification Services (ERM CVS) was engaged by FMC Corporation (FMC) • Interviews with relevant staff to understand and evaluate the data management systems to provide limited assurance in relation to the specified 2019 environmental, health and safety and processes (including systems and internal review processes) used for collecting and data in the 2019 FMC Sustainability Report (‘the Report’) and on https://FMCsustainability.com/ reporting the data for the specified indicators; data-gri/ as set out below. • A review of the internal indicator definitions and conversion factors; ENGAGEMENT SUMMARY • Visits to three sites (Jinshan, China; Ronland, Denmark; Mobile, AL, U.S.A) and two virtual sites (Lahore, Pakistan; Uberaba, Brazil) to review local reporting processes and consistency Whether FMC’s 2019 data for the following environmental (absolute and intensity) and safety indicators are fairly presented, in all material respects, with the reporting criteria: of reported annual data with selected underlying source data for each indicator. We • Scope 1 GHG Emissions (from direct energy use) [Kilotonnes CO2e] interviewed relevant staff, reviewed site data capture and reporting methods, checked • Scope 2 GHG Emissions (location-based method) [Kilotonnes CO2e] calculations and assessed the local internal quality and assurance processes; • Total GHG Emissions [Kilotonnes CO2e] • GHG Intensity [Tonnes CO2e/Tonne of Production] • An analytical review of the data from all sites and a check on the completeness and accuracy • Total Energy Use [KiloTerajoules] of the corporate data consolidation; Scope of our • Energy Intensity [GJ/Tonne of Production] assurance engagement • Total Water Use [Thousand Cubic Meters] • Year-end assurance activities at corporate level including the results of internal review • Total High Risk Water Use [Thousand Cubic Meters] procedures and the completeness and accuracy of the consolidation of the data for the • High Risk Water Intensity [Cubic Meters/Tonne of Production] specified indicators from the site data; and • Total Production [Tonnes of Production] • Total Recordable Incident Rate [TRIR] • A review of the presentation of information relevant to the scope of our work in the Report to • Total Waste Generated [Kilotonnes] ensure consistency with our findings. • Total Waste Disposed [Kilotonnes] • Waste Disposed Intensity [Kilotonnes/Tonne of Production] THE LIMITATIONS OF OUR ENGAGEMENT WBCSD/WRI GHG Protocol (2004, updated 2015) for the Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions The reliability of the assured information is subject to inherent uncertainties, given the available Reporting (excluding refrigerants and process emissions); criteria methods for determining, calculating or estimating the underlying information. It is important FMC’s internal reporting criteria and definitions to understand our assurance conclusions in this context. Our independent assurance statement Assurance ERM CVS’ assurance methodology, based on the International Standard on Assurance provides no assurance on the maintenance and integrity of the website, including controls used standard Engagements ISAE 3000 (Revised). to achieve this, and in particular whether any changes may have occurred to the information Assurance since it was first published. Limited assurance. level FMC is responsible for preparing the Report and for the collection and presentation Respective of the information within it. Jennifer Iansen-Rogers responsibilities ERM CVS’s responsibility is to provide conclusions on the agreed scope based on the assurance activities performed and exercising our professional judgement. Head of Corporate Assurance Services 22 May 2020 OUR CONCLUSIONS Based on our activities, nothing has come to our attention to indicate that the 2019 data for the specified indicators, as listed above, are not fairly presented, in all material respects, with the ERM Certification and Verification Services, London | www.ermcvs.com; email: post@ermcvs.com reporting criteria. OUR ASSURANCE ACTIVITIES ERM CVS IS A MEMBER OF THE ERM GROUP. THE WORK THAT ERM CVS CONDUCTS FOR CLIENTS IS SOLELY Our objective was to assess whether the 2019 data for the specified indicators are reported in RELATED TO INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE ACTIVITIES AND AUDITOR TRAINING. OUR PROCESSES ARE DESIGNED AND IMPLEMENTED TO ENSURE THAT THE WORK WE UNDERTAKE WITH CLIENTS IS FREE FROM BIAS AND CONFLICT OF accordance with the principles of completeness, comparability (across the organization) and INTEREST. ERM CVS AND THE STAFF THAT HAVE UNDERTAKEN WORK ON THIS ASSURANCE EXERCISE PROVIDE NO accuracy (including calculations, use of appropriate conversion factors and consolidation). CONSULTANCY RELATED SERVICES TO FMC CORPORATION IN ANY RESPECT. 38 FMC 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Grapes Vitis vinifera BOARD OF DIRECTORS Pierre R. Brondeau Dirk A. Kempthorne Executive Chairman, FMC Corporation Retired President and Chief Executive Officer, American Council of Life Insurers Eduardo E. Cordeiro Former Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Paul J. Norris President, Americas Region, Cabot Corporation Retired Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, W. R. Grace & Co. Mark A. Douglas William H. Powell President and Chief Executive Officer, FMC Corporation Margareth Øvrum Retired Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Executive Vice President – DPB and President, National Starch and Chemical Company C. Scott Greer Equinor Brazil Principal, Greer and Associates Vincent R. Volpe, Jr. Robert C. Pallash Chairman, CEO, President and Principal, K’Lynne Johnson Retired President, Global Customer Group and LeHavre Athletic Club Former Chief Executive Officer, President and Executive Chair, Senior Vice President, Visteon Corporation Elevance Renewable Sciences, Inc. FMC OFFICERS Mark A. Douglas David A. Kotch Andrew D. Sandifer President and Chief Executive Officer Vice President, Chief Information Officer Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Diane Allemang Susanne M. Lingard Kathleen A. Shelton, Ph.D. Vice President, Chief Marketing Officer Vice President, Regulatory Affairs Vice President, Chief Technology Officer Brian P. Angeli Kyle Matthews Bethwyn Todd Vice President, Corporate Strategy, Treasurer Vice President, Chief Human Resources Officer President, FMC Asia Pacific William F. Chester Ronaldo Pereira Karen M. Totland, Ph.D. Vice President, Global Tax President, FMC Americas Vice President, Global Procurement, Global Facilities Barry J. Crawford Nicholas L. Pfeiffer and Corporate Sustainability Vice President, Operations Vice President, Corporate Controller and Shawn R. Whitman Chief Accounting Officer Vice President, Government Affairs Kenneth A. Gedaka Vice President, Communications and Public Affairs Michael F. Reilly Executive Vice President, General Counsel, Chief Compliance Marc L. Hullebroeck Officer and Secretary President, FMC EMEA TOMORROW’S HARVEST 39 UNITED NATIONS FMC became a signatory to the UN Global Compact (UNGC) in 2015. This is our fifth Communication on Progress indicating our activities and management systems in support GLOBAL COMPACT of the UNGC principles. More information on our initiatives to support the UNGC principles can be found on WE SUPPORT Communication on Progress www.FMCsustainability.com TOPIC UNGC PRINCIPLE FMC’S INITIATIVES TO SUPPORT UNGC PRINCIPLES Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the • Human rights policy • Human Rights in the Supply • Supplier code of conduct protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. • Code of Ethics and Business Conduct Chain training • Supplier screening process Human Rights Principle 2: Make sure that businesses are not • Supplier code of conduct • Human rights policy • Code of Ethics and Business Conduct complicit in human rights abuses. • Sexual harassment prevention campaign Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right • Human rights policy • Code of Ethics and Business Conduct to collective bargaining. Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and • Human rights policy • Supplier code of conduct • Supplier screenings compulsory labor. • Code of Ethics and Business Conduct Labor • Human rights policy Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labor. • Supplier code of conduct • Supplier screenings • Code of Ethics and Business Conduct • D&I strategy • Human rights policy • Revision of FMC policies to be Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in • D&I training for senior leadership • Code of Ethics and Business Conduct more inclusive respect of employment and occupation. • Domestic partner and transgender • FMC Employee Resource Groups • Sexual Harassment prevention campaign benefits (U.S.) • Environmental risk assessments for Principle 7: Businesses should support a • CDP climate change module submission agricultural products • Adherence to stringent precautionary approach to environmental challenges. • Climate change statement • Sustainability assessments for products regulatory frameworks in R&D pipeline Environment Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater • CDP climate change module submission • 2030 environmental goals and progress • Product Stewardship programs environmental responsibility. • Responsible Care • Seed treatment products Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion • Precision agriculture • Evalio® AgroSystems • Sustainability assessments for products of environmentally friendly technologies. • ArcTM farm intelligence • Plant health products in R&D pipeline • Training of FMC organization and FMC’s • Ethics on-line training course Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption key third parties • FCPA audits Anti Corruption • The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. • Anti-trust compliance campaign for FMC • Code of Ethics and Business Conduct compliance standard process employees 40 FMC 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT “ We are making ourselves as a company more accountable to the community that we want to be sustainable. I think that is a very strong message, especially if you know FMC. Once we say we are accountable for something, we deliver.” Jakob Kyllesbech, Site Manager, FMC Corporation Rønland, Denmark TOMORROW’S HARVEST 41 FMC Corporation FMC Tower at Cira Centre South 2929 Walnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104 USA FMC.com COPYRIGHT © 2020, FMC CORPORATION. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
