ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT 2019 ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 II MAY MEDIASET ESPAÑA IN 2019 MARCH JANUARY Mediterraneo presents its first content offer at Amazon Prime Video exclusively MIPTV 2019. premieres ‘El Pueblo’, Mediaset España’s series. ‘Brigada Costa del Sol’ and ‘Señoras del (h) AMPA’ the only Spanish fictions selected for the MIPDrama Buyers Summit. JUNE APRIL ‘Ana Rosa Program’ celebrates 14 years on the air as the undisputed morning leader. Mediaset Spa (Italy) and Mediaset FEBRUARY España’s Boards of Directors agree to merge both companies into the new ‘Almas de Casa’ holding MFE – MEDIAFOREUROPE NV. Publiespaña’s initiative The launch of Uppers, Mediaset promoting a change España’s new digital media aimed at of the “Housewives” over 45 year olds. target, to “Responsible for household shopping”, a concept that has no ‘Sálvame’ celebrates its tenth gender stereotypes. anniversary as the leading afternoon format. ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 III OCTOBER Mediaset España and ESCAC start the first edition of ‘Showrunners: Aula de Ficcion’ with the aim of training future fiction creators. The Mediaset España and the European University of Madrid’s Masters in Creation and Management of Audio-visual Content, which has produced JULY more than 200 professionals in the sector, is ten years old. Mediaset España digital media reach their best historical position in the The launch of Mitele PLUS, a global ranking in video consumption. subscription platform that allows the viewer to enjoy the entire Mitele Mediaset España launches the 12 meses (12-months) campaign with offer without interruptions. the collaboration of the Observatorio del Juego Infantil (Observatory of children’s play) , 12 Meses ‘Jugar es un asunto muy serio (Playing is a very serious matter)´. The filming of ‘Way Down’, ended, a Telecinco Cinema blockbuster directed by Jaume Balagueró, and internationally distributed by TF1, the French audio-visual group. NOVEMBER Mtmad, Mediaset España’s digital native content platform celebrates its third anniversary with a record number of videos viewed and unique users. Mediaset España concludes a Technical Renewal Plan for its production center with pioneering image, sound and remote operability systems. AUGUST Mediaset España broadcasts the Basketball World Cup, which the SEPTEMBER DECEMBER Spanish National Team wins, in the most watched game of this sport in the television’s history. ‘Supervivientes’ (Survivor) becomes the most watched show of the year, with its best share since 2012. ‘Gran Hermano VIP’ (Celebrity Big Brother), the second most watched program of 2019, ends the series with the best share of the Celebrity format and the highest share in the ‘Big Brother’ franchise since 2003. The launch of NIUS, Mediaset España’s new native digital newspaper. The San ‘La que se avecina’ stands as the free to air fiction program with Sebastián International Film Festival the largest number of viewers. hosts the presentation of the first images The Telecinco News presented by Pedro Piqueras is once again of ‘Patria’, a fiction by Alea Media, a the most watched news program of all channels. production company partially owned by Mediaset España ends the year as the leading audio-visual Mediaset España, for HBO. group of audience in linear and digital consumption. ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 IV MEDIASET ESPAÑA’S CONTENT AROUND THE WORLD IN 2019* FINLAND RUSSIA GERMANY CONTENTS: SLOVENIA UKRAINE FRANCE HUNGARY CROATIA SERBIA FINISHED BOSNIA FORMAT PRODUCT MACEDONIA ITALY MONTENEGRO Finished product refers to the sale of audio-visual content, as broadcast in Spain, for its distribution. In GREECE 2019, content has been sold to Albania, Argentina, Bosnia, Brazil, Bulgaria, Chile, Croatia, Slovenia, the United States of America, Finland, France, Israel, Macedonia, Montenegro, Puerto Rico, Russia, Serbia, Ukraine, LATAM and MENA. Format refers to the sale of rights for the adaptation of the original idea for the creation of a local version. In 2019, rights have been sold in Germany, South Korea, Slovenia, the United States of America, France, Greece, Hungary, Italy, Mexico, Russia. USA SOUTH OF COREA ISRAEL REGIONS: MEXICO l LATAM: Anguilla, Antigua and Barbuda, Aruba, PUERTO Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, Bermuda, Bolivia, Bonaire, RICO Bosnia British Virgin Islands, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Croatia, Curacao, Dominica, Dominican Republic, MENA Ecuador, El Salvador, Slovenia French Guiana, Grenada, (including St. Barthelemy and St. Martin), Guatemala, LATAM Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Jamaica, Martinique, Mexico, Macedonia, Montenegro, Montserrat, Nicaragua, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Puerto Rico, Saba, Serbia St. Eustatius, St. Kitts and Nevis, St Lucia, St. Maarten, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, Suriname, Trinidad BRAZIL and Tobago, Turks and Caicos Islands, Uruguay and Venezuela. l MENA: Bahrain, Egypt, Iraq, Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon, Oman, Palestine, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Syria, CHILE United Arab Emirates and Republic of Yemen, Algeria, Chad, Republic of Djibouti, Libya, Mauritania, Morocco, Somalia, South Sudan , Sudan and Tunisia. ARGENTINA *It only considers the sale of Mediaset España’s contents with the rights starting in 2019. ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 Navigating the report V GO TO PREVIOUS NEXT PRINT SEARCH SEND INDEX PAGE PAGE Direct access to chapter PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MODEL MEDIASET ABOUT MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 THIS REPORT PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE Scope Standards VII VII Letter from the Chairman IX MODEL Business Context XI Key performance indicators XIII Company structure 2 Corporate Governance System 7 ABOUT THIS BUSINESS MEDIASET REPORT MODEL ESPAÑA 2019 About this report 161 External Verification 165 Business Model 12 Other Performance Indicators 70 GRI Content Index 166 Key success and differentiation factors 14 Evolution of the business 73 Non-financial information Strategy 15 Awards received 93 report contents 172 Stakeholders Relations 17 Economic and Financial Performance 94 Directory 178 Risk Management 19 Tax Transparency 95 Personal Data Protection 31 Shareholders and Investors Value 99 Cibersecurity 33 Workforce Value 101 Content Management 35 Value for Society 116 Advertising Management 44 Environmental Performance 145 Team Management 47 Additional Information 152 Supply Chain Management 54 Corporate Communication Management 63 This report is available online for computer, smartphone and tablet devices (interactive Shareholder and Investor Relations pdf ready to download). Management 66 Management of Relations with Public Institutions 67 Further information Sustainability Alliances 68 Access to further information PROLOGUE ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 VII PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT SCOPE STANDARDS Since 2005, Mediaset España has published the information This report has been prepared taking into account the current regarding the economic, social, environmental and ethical regulations, including the Law 11/2018 on the disclosure of performance of the Mediaset España Group, information non-financial and diversity information. Current that, from 2009, is annually verified by an external and Regulations independent auditor. Also, the GRI Sandards have been followed for the Preparation of Sustainability Reports, the GRI Standards’ version, together The intention of this Corprate Annual Report is to inform in a with the Media GRI-G4 sectoral supplement, both issued transparent, concise, clear and conscious manner, about the by Global Reporting Initiative, as well as the International integrated management of the financial and non-financial Integrated Reporting Framework recommendations of the aspects of the business and value creation in the short, International Integrated Reporting Council (<IR> Framework). medium and long-term, for the period 1st January to 31st Media GRI-G4 December 2019. In this regard, Mediaset España considers that its Report Suplement adequately follows the <IR> Framework requirements The scope of this Report is limited to the fully consolidated and therefore presents its value creation in a cohesive and Mediaset España Group, hereinafter Mediaset España, efficient way over time. Mediaset España Group or Group indistinctly. If the reporting scope differs to that noted, an explanatory note is included. Mediaset España’s ability to create value is determined by its understanding of and response to the business context (p. In 2019, there were no significant changes in the criteria XI-XII), the pertinent identification of strategic priorities and and basis for including the information reported. Also, any opportunities (p. 15-16) and the effective alignment of the Marco <IR> change in the formulas used for the calculation of reported business model (p. 12), the conservative management of the data is indicated in the corresponding section. In this regard, main business risks (p. 27-30), as well as the ability to respond any change is due to the process of continuous improvement to the material issues of the main stakeholders (p. 162-164). in the reporting of non-financial information carried out by the company, in order to present the relevant information as In turn, in accordance with the self-assessment carried out accurately as possible. by Mediaset España, which is externally verified, the report has been prepared in accordance with the comprehensive Mediaset España’s Board of Directors is the body responsible option of the GRI Standards. GRI Standards (comprehensive) for preparing this report, which is part of the Mediaset España Group’s 2019 Consolidated Management Report. With the aim of meeting the informational requirements of various initiatives on which the company reports, Mediaset España has decided to respond to all GRI indicators, detailing such information in the GRI Content Index. INTRODUCTION ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 IX PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN Mr. Alejandro Dear shareholders: advertising market confirms that we made the right decision Echevarría when we decided to establish ourselves as an audio-visual Busquet Dear shareholders: In 2019 Mediaset España will maintain IN A SOCIETY THAT model where our television and digital content converge, Chairman its leading position in the audio-visual world for the ninth IS INCREASINGLY thereby creating an audio-visual offer capable of absorbing consecutive year, being the most watched Group in both INDIVIDUALISTIC the advertising demand of both worlds in an increasingly linear and digital media, obtaining a 28.9% audience share. diversified market. AND ISOLATED In this context, Telecinco has been the most watched commercial television for the twentieth year, with a 14.8% WITHIN ITS OWN In fact, in 2019 the Mediaset Group has consolidated its share, obtaining one of the greatest advantages over its ENVIRONMENT, leadership in digital video consumption, obtaining its best immediate competitor, and Mitele has been the leading MEDIASET ESPAÑA result to date, with 4,778 million videos viewed, a figure that television content platform in digital consumption. is almost double that of 2018. HAS SET OUT TO The company managed to transfer the strength of its audioKEEP THE PUBLIC visual audience leadership to the advertising field. The COMPANY WITH company, through its commercial management model, is ENTERTAINMENT. the reference media for advertising investment in general and in particular, for TV stations, with 43.4% of the TV market ENTERTAINMENT share, which is 0.1 points higher than its position in 2018, and it THAT IS SHARED, has achieved this even though there were no major sporting EXPERIENCED LIVE events in 2019 like there was in 2018 with World Cup in Russia. AND ENJOYED Television continues to be the main medium within the IMMEDIATELY AS conventional advertising market as a whole, with an AN AUDIO-VISUAL unquestionable predominance, which reflects the power EVENT. and resilience of free-to-air television as an advertising communication tool, although it is true that the competitive pressure of on-line advertising is increasing. This trend in the ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 X PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT Telecinco.es obtains a 90% increase with respect to 2018, However, operating expenses, which amounted to 724,672 España’s total Scope 1 and 2 emissions. This initiative positions reaching 926 million videos downloaded and, while Cuatro. thousand euros in 2018, have been reduced to 681,347 the company in line with international best practices in com increases 92%, with 234 million videos viewed. The TV thousand euros in 2019; a very significant reduction which environmental matters, promotes the development of content platform Mitele.es reinforces its leadership in video reflects the considerable capacity that our business model Sustainable Development Objectives and reinforces Mediaset consumption with 2.6 billion downloads (more than 70% has to adapt to the reality of the market without affecting our España’s commitment to sustainable business management. growth) and the digital native content platform Mtmad audience and advertising leadership objectives, which we quadruples the 2018 record with 233 million videos viewed. have already highlighted. On a strictly corporate level, in 2019 and together with Mediaset Italia, the operation to create Media For Europe Furthermore, in 2019, Mediaset España began its journey This meant that the net profit attributable to Mediaset España (MFE) began, a pan-European communications group with in the business of distributing paid audio-visual content, in 2019 amounted to 211,713 thousand euros, an improvement a clear strategic and industrial objective: to acquire the with the launch of Mitele Plus, a subscription platform that on the 200,326 thousand euros recorded in 2018. The necessary scale to compete effectively in the new, highly incorporates exclusive content without advertising. Similarly, magnitude and relevance of this result can be appreciated globalized audio-visual environment. This objective was and in keeping with its goal of continuing to grow as a in all its dimensions if we consider the unfavourable context strengthened by the acquisition of 5.5% of the shares of the large media group, Mediaset España has undertaken other in which it has occurred, demonstrating our permanent German television operator Prosieben Sat, which, together initiatives, such as the launch of NIUS, a digital newspaper commitment to our stakeholders, primarily our shareholders with the 10% stake already held by Mediaset Spa, makes the providing general information; the acquisition of the digital and: to manage the cost base in the most efficient manner in Mediaset Group ProSieben Sat’s main shareholder. sports portal El Desmarque; and the Uppers website, aimed order to meet operational and financial objectives. at a target audience of over 45-year-olds, very interesting Therefore, the outcome of this merger process will allow the from a digital commercial point of view. In 2019, an ordinary dividend of 99,958 thousand euros, creation of a European media leader which, by acting as a equivalent to 0.30590132 per share in circulation, was hub for the aggregation of national companies, will be able In addition to the usual activity of generating in-house distributed and charged against the 2018 profits. Additionally, to compete in a market where the main competitors act at an production content for our linear tv and digital media channels, a Share Buyback Plan was carried out, which ended on 5 June international level, thus generating growth and value for the which is the cornerstone of Mediaset España’s successful 2019 a total of 14,419,910 shares were acquired, equivalent benefit of the companies involved, their shareholders and the model, in 2019 the foundations were laid for the production to 4.36% of Mediaset España’s share capital, totalling an rest of the stakeholders. and distribution of content for third parties, particularly in investment of 94.5 million euros. relation to the new OTT platforms recently introduced in Spain, through the creation of Mediterráneo Mediaset España On the stock market, Mediaset España’s shares reached Group, a subsidiary company that brings together, under a capitalisation of 1,853 million euros at the end of the the same organisational structure, all the Group’s stakes in year, which is 2.4 times the capitalisation value of its main television, film and digital content production companies: a competitor in Spain, ranking fifth among European operators. large factory of fiction, entertainment, sports, news and film content, capable of offering a wide and segmented range for Our business management continues to be based on a local or international broadcasting (our content has already solid system of corporate governance and on a transversal reached over 190 countries). structure of sustainability management that we have been strengthening year after year. Thus, aware of the obligations With respect to the economic results, operating revenues imposed by the current climate situation, we have decided increased from 981,564 thousand euros in 2018 to 946,241 to finance projects aimed at reducing Greenhouse Gas thousand euros in 2019, mainly due to the weaker evolution (GHG) emissions, through the acquisition of carbon credits of the television advertising market. to absorb 600 tonnes of CO2, which is more than Mediaset ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 XI PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT BUSINESS CONTEXT At a sectoral level, during 2019 Mediaset España had to In a strictly business context, the main milestone of 2019 face a television advertising market that had negative relates to the merger process between Mediaset SpA growth compared to the previous year. Among the factors and Mediaset España that was announced in June. The to be hightlighted are the lack of major events (2018 had project is based on creating a pan-European group in the the football World Cup), the uncertainty generated by two entertainment and media sector, with a leadership position elections and the economic slowdown. In this environment, in its own reference markets and a scale that allows it to Mediaset España reinforced its leadership in audiences and be more competitive and potentially increase the reach market share. of its own activity to other European countries (the “MFE Project”). This process was altered by the lawsuits filed by one Another factor to take into account is the trend of lower TV of the Company’s shareholders in various Courts, which led consumption per person and day that has been registered in to the adoption of interim measures that are delaying the recent years, coupled with the fact that the population today completion of the project. watches more audio-visual content than ever, accessing it from different media and devices. Mediaset España is no Likewise, it is worth mentioning the proposed sanction stranger to this reality and works in different areas in this issued by the CNMC regarding restrictive competition regard. Spain has one of the highest levels of television policies on November 13, 2019, where it reported to Mediaset consumption among the main European economies, España of the alleged commission of restrictive practices around 240 minutes per person/day. This stability presents on competition in the television advertising market in discrepancies when it is observed by age groups, but it Spain, which would be contrary to article 1 of the Anti-trust does not affect the general feeling of greater consumption Law and article 101 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the of audio-visual content among the population. Once this European Union. Mediaset España appealed this resolution situation was accepted, Mediaset España worked on offering before the Audiencia Nacional (Spain’s National Court) and the required content through the appropriate channels. The requested its interim suspension. The company manifested largest audiences for its programs coincided with the largest its total disagreement with the decision, given that there is number of views and video downloads on Mitele (Mediaset no anti-competitive conduct that has led to a breach of the España’s online platform), which in the end leads us to believe regulations in force that may be subject to sanction. that the debate about a higher or lower consumption is more about content rather than the population’s new habits. The Looking ahead to the next few years, the Mediaset Group’s right content is consumed, whichever way it is distributed. business will be based on the evolution of advertising and content creation. The evolution of economic growth and private consumption rates will lead, predictably, to the dedication of more or less resources to advertising and marketing by advertisers. ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 XII PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT Within this activity there is an increasing presence of digital While television consumption, which maintains a slight In this regard, through Mediterraneo, a company that advertising, which is growing in the Spanish market at a rate downward trend year after year, is more than offset by the encompasses the group’s audio-visual, cinematographic of double-digits annually. The coexistence of conventional growth in the consumption of audio-visual content through and digital content production companies in the same television advertising (local and large scale business) and other devices such as mobile phones, tablets, and other organizational structure, it seeks content generation, for digital television advertising (global and more targeted digital media. The goal continues to be the creation of both its own use and for third parties, as well as reinforcing business) is leading to the need to develop new capabilities, quality content that is accepted and valued by the viewer. access to the purchase and development of international products and offers for customers. The gradual increase in However today it is not simply consumed through television formats through creative agreements with other the weight of programmatic advertising, as well as the arrival and requires that traditional operators make an effort to independent production companies, which promote the of global digital operators, justify the need to gain size and adapt content, and their technology, in order to distribute it area of international distribution and sale of the formats and scale to be able to compete with them on equal terms. through the various existing channels. productions of this audio-visual conglomerate, optimizing the international boom of Spanish fiction and exploiting the These same competitors represent a business opportunity Mediaset España is currently undergoing an orderly transition content needs generated for the new distribution platforms. for all those television groups, suchy as Mediaset España, to become an audio-visual operator which, in addition to its which are gradually adapting their businesses to the new traditional business, brings together the creation of content This process of evolution and transition was especially reality. In Mediaset España’s case, the agreements reached for in-house use and for third parties, and its adaption to the notable in 2019, when the company carried out the with content production companies, through minority stakes new digital environment. The gradual increase in the weight progressive adaptation to the new advertiser and viewer in their capital, make it possible to reduce the company’s of these activities on the business gradually reduces the trends, with special relevance in the digital sphere, where the dependence on the economic cycle, and to create content, weight of television advertising, although it continues to be highest growth rates in advertising investment and content mainly of a local nature, in response to the growing demand the company’s main source of income. consumption are being recorded. Thus, in 2019, we can by large digital platforms. This trend, which we have been highlight the acquisition of the sports website El Desmarque observing for years, continues today and looks set to continue and the creation of Nius, a news web and the launch of in the future. Uppers, an information and entertainment website aimed at the adult population. ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 XIII PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS OPERATING REVENUE NET PROFT 1 INVESTMENT IN THIRD INVESTMENT IN FICTION INVESTMENT TECHNICAL (€ MILLION) (€ MILLION) PARTY PRODUCTION PRODUCTION IN CO-PRODUCTION INVESTMENT (€ MILLION) (€ MILLION) (€ MILLION) (€ MILLION) 264.9 211.7 2018: 200 91.5 2018: 91.6 55.9 25.8 11 2018: 10.0 2018: 256.9 2018: 36.5 2018: 11.1 2017: 14.2 2017: 245.3 2017: 197.5 2017: 106.4 2017: 47.6 2017: 19.1 NET ADVERTISING AVERAGE WORKFORCE ADVERTISING EFFIAVERAGE SCREEN PROGRAMMING INCOME (€ MILLION) (Nº OF EMPLOYEES) CIENCY RATIO2 RATING HOURS3 880 2018: 925 1,558.5 2018: 1,267 150 2018: 150 28.9 2018: 28.8 61,320 2018: 61,320 2017: 932 2017: 1,280 2017: 151 2017: 28.7 2017: 61,320 1. Attributable to the Parent Company’s shareholders. 2. Advertising Efficiency Ratio prepared by “INFOADEX” for all Group channels. 3. It includes broadcasting hours from all Mediaset España channels. GOVERNANCE MODEL ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 2 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT COMPANY STRUCTURE GROUP ORGANISATIONAL STRUCTURE Mediaset España, the parent company The Mediaset España Group is an audio-visual group comprised of companies engaged in Mediaset España’s corporate purpose is the indirect management of Public Television Services. businesses related to the audio-visual sector, the core activities being audio-visual content As of year-end Mediaset commercially operates the TV channels Telecinco, Cuatro, Factoría de production and broadcasting, and the exploitation of advertising space on its TV channels. Ficción, Boing, Energy, Divinity and BeMad, having obtained the necessary licences to provide audio-visual communication services. Mediaset España Comunicación, S.A. (hereinafter “Mediaset España” or “the Company”), incorporated in Madrid on 10 March 1989, is head of the corporate group named Grupo Mediaset The company has its registered office in Carretera de Fuencarral to Alcobendas, nº 4, 28049, España Comunicación, S.A. (hereinafter “the Mediaset Group” or “the Group”). Madrid and began listing on the stock exchange on 24 June, 2004. It is currently listed on the Madrid, Barcelona, Bilbao and Valencia Stock Exchanges, and joined the IBEX35 index on 3 January, 2005. The Group’s business is centred on the exploitation of advertising space on the TV channels for which it is a concessionaire and the performance of analogous and complementary activities such as audio-visual production, advertising promotion and news agency activities. As the parent company, Mediaset España is required to draw up the Group’s consolidated annual accounts, as well as its own annual accounts. ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 3 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT The Group’s consolidated companies are as follows: Fully-consolidated companies Business Country 2018 2019 Grupo Editorial Tele 5, S.A.U. Copyright management and exploitation Spain 100% 100% Publiespaña, S.A.U. Commercialisation of advertising Spain 100% 100% Conecta 5 Telecinco, S.A.U. Distribution of audio-visual content on the Internet Spain 100% 100% Mediacinco Cartera, S.L.U. Inactive holding company Spain 100% 100% Publimedia Gestión, S.A.U. (1) Commercialisation of advertising Spain 100% 100% Advertisement 4 Adventure, S.L.U. Holding for “media for equity” projects Spain 100% 100% Producción y Distribución de Contenidos Audiovisuales Production and distribution of audio-visual content Spain 100% 100% Mediaterráneo, S.L.U. Netsonic, S.L.U. (1) Online video advertising Spain 100% 100% Grupo Audiovisual Mediaset España Comunicación, S.A.U. Online video advertising Spain 100% 100% (antes Concursos Multiplataformas, S.A.U.) Telecinco Cinema, S.A.U. (2) Cinematographic Production Spain 100% 100% Megamedia Televisión S.L. (2) Creation, development, production and exploitation of multimedia audio-visual content Spain 30% 65% Supersport Televisión S.L. (2) Production of sports programmes Spain 30% 62.5% El Desmarque Portal Deportivo S.L. (2) Information and distribution of current facts and affairs Spain 60% Equity consolidated companies Producciones Mandarina, S.L. (2) Audio-visual content creation, development, production and commercial exploitation Spain 30% 30% La Fábrica de la Tele, S.L. (2) Audio-visual content creation, development, production and commercial exploitation Spain 30% 30% Alea Media, S.A. (2) Creation, acquisition and exploitation of literary, musical, graphic and audio-visual works Spain 40% 40% Melodía Producciones, S.L. (2) (en liquidación) Creation, acquisition and exploitation of literary, musical, graphic and audio-visual works Spain 40% 40% Alma Productora Audiovisual, S.L. (2) Production and distribuition of audio-visual programmes and productions Spain 30% 30% Bulldog TV Spain, S.L. (2) Audio-visual content production, creation and development Spain 30% 30% Unicorn Content, S.L. (2) Production of TV programmes Spain 30% 30% Aunia Publicidad Interactiva, S.L. (1) Audio-visual communication services Spain 50% 50% Adtech Ventures, S.p.A. (1) Commercialisation of advertising, in Italy and abroad Italy 50% 50% Furia de Titanes II A.I.E. (3) Telecommunication services and participation in the creation, production, distribution and Spain 34% 34% exploitation of audio-visual content Alea La Maleta S.L.U. (4) Creation, acquisition and exploitation of literary, musical, graphic and audio-visual works Spain 40% Pagoeta Media S.L.U. (4) Creation, acquisition and exploitation of literary, musical, graphic and audio-visual works Spain 40% Joint Ventures Telefónica Broadcast S.L.U. Supersport Televisión S.L. (UTE) (5) Distribution of audio-visual content on the Internet Spain 50% (1) The shares are held by Publiespaña, S.A.U (2) The shares are held by Producción y Distribución de Contenidos Audiovisuales Mediaterráneo, S.L.U. (3) The shares in this company are held by Telecinco Cinema S.A.U. (4) The shares in this company are held by Alea Media S.A. (5) The shares in this company are held by Supersport Televisión S.L. Note: the business names of the companies are as follows: Mediaset España Comunicación S.A. (hereinafter, Mediaset España or the company); Grupo Editorial Tele5, S.A.U (hereinafter, Grupo Editorial)); Mediacinco Cartera S.L.U. (hereinafter Mediacinco Cartera); Conecta 5 Telecinco, S.A.U. (hereinafter Conecta 5); Publiespaña, S.A.U. (hereinafter Publiespaña); Publimedia Gestión S.A.U. (hereinafter Publimedia); Advertisement 4 Adventure,S.L.U. (hereinafter Advertisement 4 Adventure); Netsonic, S.L.U. (hereinafter Netsonic); Producción y Distribución de Contenidos Audiovisuales Mediterráneo, S.L.U. (hereinafter, Mediterráneo); Grupo Audiovisual Mediaset España Comunicación S.A.U. (hereinafter, Grupo Audiovisual Mediaset España); Telecinco Cinema S.A.U. (hereinafter, Telecinco Cinema); Megamedia Televisión S.L. (hereinafter, Megamedia); Supersport Televisión S.L. (hereinafter, Supersport); El Desmarque Portal Deportivo S.L. (hereinafter, El Desmarque); Alea Media S.A. (hereinafter, Alea Media); Melodía Producciones S.L. (hereinafter, Melodía Producciones); Alma Productora Audiovisual S.L. (hereinafter, Alma Productora); La Fábrica de la Tele S.L. (hereinafter, La Fábrica de la Tele); Producciones Mandarina, S.L. (hereinafter, Mandarina); Bulldog TV Spain S.L. (hereinafter, Bulldog) y Unicorn Content S.L. (hereinafter, Unicorn). ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 4 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT CHANGES TO THE CONSOLIDATION PERIMETER Shareholding IN THE YEAR ENDED 31ST DECEMBER 2019 On 21 January 2019 the Group acquired an additional 32.5% share in the company Supersport Televisión, S.L., bringing its total share in this company to 62.5%, which is 42.4% 53.3% 4.4% now fully consolidated. On 21 January 2019, the Group acquired an additional 35% share in the company Megamedia Televisión, S.L. FREE FLOAT MEDIASET SPA TREASURY abringing its total share in this company to 65%, which is now fully consolidated. On 5 March 2019, the Group acquired a 60% interest in El Desmarque Portal Deportivo, S.L., which is now fully consolidated. All of these have been integrated into the Consolidated Annual Accounts as of 31 December 2019 by the global consolidation method and none of them have a significant impact on the Group. On May 14th, 2019, the Group company Supersport Televisión, S.L. together with Telefónica Broadcast Services, S.L. formed a joint venture called Telefónica Broadcast Services, SLU-Supersport Televisión, SL, Unión Temporal de Empresas, Law 18/1982 of 26 May and Law 12/1991 of 29 April in order to provide technical, editorial and content management services for Real Madrid C.F. TV channel. On October 21st, 2019, the company Alea Media, S.A. incorporated a wholly-owned subsidiary, Alea La Maleta, S.L.U., which is now integrated into the group (40%). ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 5 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT Mediaset España Group Companies. MEDIASET ESPAÑA GRUPO GRUPO AUDIOVISUAL MEDIACINCO CONECTA 5 PUBLIESPAÑA ADVERTISEMENT MEDITERRÁNEO EDITORIAL MEDIASET ESPAÑA CARTERA 100% 4 ADVENTURE 100% 100% 100% COMUNICACIÓN 100% 100% 100% PUBLIMEDIA 100% EL MELODÍA TELECINCO MEGAMEDIA SUPERSPORT ALEA MEDIA1 PRODUCCIONES CINEMA4 65% 62.5% DESMARQUE 40% 40% GRUPO 100% 60% NETSONIC2 100% ALMA LA FÁBRICA PRODUCCIONES BULLDOG TV UNICORN PRODUCTORA DE LA TELE MANDARINA 30% 30% 30% 30% 30% AUNIA 50% Fully consolidated Equity consolidation method 1. Alea Media owns 100% of Pagoeta Media and 100% of Alea La Maleta. ADTECH VENTURES 2. The following are included: NETSONIC USA, NETSONIC COLOMBIA, NETSONIC MEXICO, NETSONIC ESPAÑA AND NETSONIC PERÚ. S.P.A.3 3.: Adtech Ventures owns 25% of EBX 50% 4. Telecinco Cinema owns 34% of A.I.E. “Furia de TitanesII” ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 6 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT GOVERNING BODIES General Meeting The General Meeting is the sovereign body of the company and represents all the shareholders, its operation and composition are regulated in the Articles of Association and its Regulations. Due to its importance, the attendance of the shareholders is guaranteed by holding one share and there are no decisions that require a reinforced quorum to be adopted. The Board of Directors has all the necessary powers to manage the company and relies on the delegated bodies and the management team, focusing its activity on Mediaset Board of España’s general supervisory duties. The regulation of their Directors functions, composition and organizational methods is set out in the Articles of Assosiation and the Board of Directors Regulations. Appointments Audit and Executive and Compliance Committee Remuneration Committee Committee ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 7 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT CORPORATE The Corporate General Management strictly monitors applicable regulations and best practices in the area of good governance GOVERNANCE SYSTEM in order to ensure that Mediaset España has a robust corporate governance system that is aligned with the main practices established by both the National Securities Market Commission and the main international standards. GOOD GOVERNANCE MODEL Nonexecutive chairman; 23% Annual executive board Activity Fewer than 15 in members; 30.77% Reports of the number; independent board Appointments members 85 year old age limit One share one vote and Remuneration Committee and Audit and Compliance Committee. Committees Electronic forum Vote fractioning presided over by independent board Control of Mediaset España’s members conflict of interest situations through the Internal Code of Conduct on the stock market. Shareholders The Board of Directors annual Continuous Shareholders are the core 30% Female binding vote on Highest management body with communication on which good corporate Board member’s through the broad decision-making powers Directors governance is based. The remuneration. Investor Relations Obligation in the most relevant matters for reinforcement of transparency, Affirmative department shareholder vote to inform the the company; for this reason, the recognition of their rights or Board of Directors of of 78.55%. those criminal cases both in terms of composition the protection of their interests in which Directors and in its operation, it is essential are the foundation for the appear as accused for Mediaset España to include good governance rules of the parties. measures of good governance in company. its regulations. Commitment to not finance political The parties Separate voting board Accessible Policies of substantially members are on the web independent points limited regarding their participation on other Boards of Directors Justification of the proposals Tax Management for Board Members’ with an exclusion of appointment and Annual Evaluation tax havens re-election. External Audit of the Board of the Corporate members and Governance and Committees Remuneration Reports ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 8 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT Board of Directors’ Composition Mr. Borja Ms. Helena Ms. Consuelo Ms. Cristina Mr. Javier Prado Revoredo Crespo Bofill Garmendia Díez de Executive Committee Eulate Delvecchio Mendizábal Polanco Chaired by a board member with the status of “Other External”, the Executive Committee has all the powers inherent to the Board of Directors’, except those that cannot be delegated by law, by the Articles of Association or the regulations. The Executive Committee deals with all matters within the competence of the Board of Directors, except for those that cannot be delegated. Mr. Paolo Vasile Chief Executive The Board of Directors is informed of the resolutions Mr. Alejandro Officer adopted by the Executive Committee. Executive Proprietary Independent Otther External Echevarría Busquet 23.08% 38.46% 30.77% 7.69% Audit and Compliance Committee Chairman Mr. Fedele Confalonieri Chaired by an independent board member with Vice-Chairman extensive accounting knowledge, its functions include the supervision of the financial information published by the company, the control and approval of relatedparty transactions, conflicts of interest, relations with the account auditor and supervision of risk control and management policy. Appointments and Remuneration Committee Mr. Mario Mr. Mr. Marco Ms. Gina Mr. Niccolò Rodríguez Massimo Giordani Nieri Querci Valderas Musolino Chaired by an independent board member, its Secretary functions include protecting the integrity of the selection process for directors and senior directors, reporting to the Board of Directors on gender diversity issues, ensuring that when filling new vacancies, the selection procedures do not hinder the selection Board of of female directors, assisting the Board of Directors Directors: in evaluating the Chairman of the Board and the 30.77% All board company’s top executives, as well as setting and members Appointments supervising the remuneration policy for Directors’ and senior executives. Female Audit and Compliance and Remuneration >50 años Committee: Committee: representation 40% 50% ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 9 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT MAIN ISSUES ADDRESSED BY THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS DIRECTORS REMUNERATION IN 2019 Mediaset España’s Board of Directors’ activity focuses on the management of the The remuneration policy for the company’s board members is governed by articles 37 and 56 company and the definition, supervision and monitoring of policies, strategies and main of the Company’s Articles of Association and article 28 of the Company’s Board of Directors guidelines. Regulations. In accordance with the principles governing Mediaset España’s management, and in accordance with the provisions of article 28 of the Board of Directors Regulations and l M  onitoring the Company’s performance and the evolution of advertising revenues and the best corporate governance practices, the remuneration policy must be: audience results. l Monitoring of the Company’s management: l In accordance with the responsibilities assigned to them and the dedication employed. Analysis of the Company and its Group’s financial statements. Approval of the Budget for 2020. l Incentive based and therefore, likely to retain the most valuable professionals rewarding the dedication, qualification and responsibility that the position requires. l E  stablishes strategic objectives for 2020: It sets the strategic objectives on which the Company’s Risk Map is established. l Related, at all times, to the importance of the Company in the business environment and its economic situation. l  emuneration of directors: Application of principles of balance and moderation to the R remuneration of the Chairman, CEO and members. l In line with the market standards of companies of a similar size and activity. l Analysis of the political situation and legislative modifications: Preparation of internal Designed to promote the long-term profitability and sustainability of the Company. actions with regards to different political and/or legislative scenarios. l l  upervises the various areas of the company’s activity: Ensures compliance with S l Contain the necessary precautions to prevent excessive risk taking and reward in case of Internal Rules. unfavourable results. l P  romotes Corporate Governance and Corporate Responsibility: Approves of the Annual With regards to independent Directors, this policy also seeks, that the amount of remuneration Corporate Report on Non-Financial Information. is such that it provides incentives for their dedication and service to the Company, but that it does not compromise their independence. As for the definition and approval process, different management bodies of the company are involved, including its shareholders. This process begins within the Appointments and Remuneration Committee which analyses and approves the main defining lines of the Directors Further information remuneration and formulates both, this report and the Director’s remuneration policy, where All good governance information is available necessary. in our website https://www.mediaset.es/inversores/en/ corporate-governance.html Once the report has been prepared and in accordance with Article 37.3 of the Articles of Association, it is the Board of Directors that is responsible for approving the remuneration policy of its members that will be submitted for the approval of the General Meeting. Finally, it is Mediaset’s shareholders, through the General Meeting, who evaluate and decide on a system and the manner in which the company directors receive their remuneration. Like last year, in 2019 the Company considered it appropriate to submit the previous year’s remuneration report to a binding shareholder vote. ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 10 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT Summary of remuneration (thousands of euros) Name Remuneration accrued in the company Remuneration accrued in the Group’s companies Gross profit Gross profit from shares or Remuneration from shares or Remuneration Total consolidated through Remuneration Total consolidated through Remuneration Remuneration financial savings for other 2019 company remuneration financial savings for other 2019 total in cash instruments schemes concepts total in cash instruments schemes concepts group Mr. ALEJANDRO 1,003 76 1,079 ECHEVARRÍA BUSQUET Mr. PAOLO VASILE 1,683 246 1,929 Mr. FEDELE CONFALONIERI 151 151 Mr. MASSIMO MUSOLINO 971 35 l,006 Mr. MARIO RODRÍGUEZ 795 29 824 VALDERAS Mr. MARCO GIORDANI 143 143 Mr. BORJA PRADO EULATE 123 123 Mr. NICCOLÓ QUERCI 123 123 Ms. GINA NIERI 111 111 Mr. JAVIER DIEZ DE 167 167 POLANCO Ms. CRISTINA GARMENDIA 131 131 MENDIZÁBAL Ms. CONSUELO CRESPO 147 147 BOFILL Ms. HELENA REVOREDO 131 131 DELVECCHIO TOTAL 5,679 386 6,065 BUSINESS MODEL ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 12 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT BUSINESS MODEL What we do What makes us The value that Main Resources and how we different we create do it Value Chain Shareholders Availability of financial Attractive audio-visual content for the audience 99,958€ resources Shareholders dividend Technical and Multichannel and Employees CONTENT CONTENT SALE OF AUDIENCE Technological support Multiplatform offer PRODUCTION DISTRIBUTION ADVERTISING ANALYSIS Direct Employment and state-of-the-art Commercial Policy of 1,551 facilities short blocks in prime time, Advertisers Creative Talent multiplatform offer and Value for the superspot Commercial relationships our advertisers ensuring access to leading • Internal/external creators • TDT • Internal/external creation • Analytical and Metadata Unique richness of targets Advertising Effectiveness Ratio=150 programming • Intellectual Property • Webs/app of advertising pieces nationwide Entertainment valued by • Licences and derived • Pay TV Platforms, OTTs Wide range of broadcast products and Ability to deal with the audience media • Trademarks international TV change quickly 28.9 average screen share • Cinemas and home video CONTENT PURCHASE Community Solid commercial • News Agencies • Broadcast rights management Support for social matters relationships with advertisers 7,720 SUPPORTING CORPORATE AREAS Public Administration Constructive relationship 101,011 with the audio-visual Investment in regulatory bodies environmental Licences for the top Governance Model improvements programming brands 106 Sustainable use of natural Investment in CORPORATE RISK resources GOVERNANCE MANAGEMENT audio-visual rights MANAGEMENT Risk Committee; CONTENT 173,104 Reasonable supply chain Board of Directors, Acquisitions MANAGEMENT ADVERTISING HUMAN RESOURCES management Executive Committee, Committee; Compliance Editorial Committee; MANAGEMENT MANAGEMENT Suppliers Content Committee; Workers’ Committee; Audit and Compliance and Prevention Unit; Fiction Committee; Advertising Committee 385,197 Equality Committe Committee, Appointments Security Management Digital Committee and Remuneration Committee; Data Committee Protection Unit Data at 31/12/2019 The economic data is expressed in thousands of €. ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 13 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT Self-Regulation Code for Television Content Deontological and Children. Code of the Journalists Federation (FAPE). Online Trust Code. Audio-visual The Cinema Communication Act Act (Law 55/2007) ( Law 7/2010) Advertising Code of Conduct for Association the Commercial of Media Communication Managers Self-Regulation Association. The Sector (DIRCOM) Code RTVE of Ethics. (AUTOCONTROL) Intellectual regulations Financing Act Property Act. (Law 8/2009) (Law 1/1996) and guidelines European Sectoral Codes of Deontological Conduct for the selfCode of the regulation of Journalism advertising Profession. Agreement on the procedure for marketing and Best practice management of agreement for advertising space on advertising. Spanish generalist television companies. ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 14 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT KEY SUCCESS AND DIFFERENTIATION FACTORS To ensure the sustainable development of its business plan, The great variety of products that Mediaset España offers The flexibility of its model and the speed with which it deals Mediaset España needs a team of people who possess the the market through a broad range of media that enable with change when programmes need to be replaced or skills and attitudes necessary to perform the roles assigned viewers to enjoy a unique experience in line with their own rebroadcast, allows Mediaset España to offer a wide range of to them, who understand and commit to the values and tastes, preferences and availability, is one of the main factors programmes. expected behaviour that should guide their actions. underlying the business’s success. FLEXIBILITY OF TALENT MULTICHANNEL THE OFFER MODEL Strong financial capacity Enables the company to be able to buy Aligning talentstrategy Identify future needs Channels premium content and Human resources The company’s training The work experience and trainee Through the main and new formats for its viewers Available for each programme, policy allows for the policy, training agreements, the generation channels, they continuously monitor implementation of specific selection of the best students from Mediaset España offers each production and ensure training actions tailored to the Audio-visual Content Creation differentiated contents for coordination specific posts, updating and and Management Masters different groups with the programming area perfecting managers’ skills course or the talent recruitment when planning each channel’s and the development programmes provide the means to programme of other skills linked to complement the current grid business needs workforce’s capacities and ensure access to the best professionals Strengthen commitment Critical talent retention Platforms Digital transformation Through measures such The development and Through the different content It enables audio-visual content training policy, together with distribution platforms, Mediaset Our own state-ofas Fringe Benefits and broadcasts to be perfectly an adequate recognition España extends its service the-art facilities and work-life balance measures adapted to any mobile and remuneration system, beyond the television set, equipment or Equality Plans, an device and with the best ensures the retention over through its own channel’s Which generate affable and beneficial work user experience, covering the time of the employees with websites, with applications production synergies for environment is promoted new forms of audio-visual the talent and skills required for mobile devices and its both in-house that contributes to achieving consumption for the sustainable success extensive presence on social and third-party the individual commitment of the business networks productions of the workforce ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 15 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT STRATEGY 2019 was characterised by the fact that Mediaset has managed to adapt to the sector transformation, the achievement of its main strategic business objectives set for that period is an example of this. As a result, in 2020 the strategy will be based on the following: 1. CULMINATION OF MEDIASET ESPAÑA’S TRANSFORMATION INTO AN AUDIO-VISUAL COMPANY BASED ON THREE MAIN AXIS: a. Maintaining the leadership position in the television b. Promoting profitability on the internet. c. Promoting alliances in the production and exploitation market: (i) audience, (ii) advertising and revenue share, of audio-visual content. and (iii) profitability. Of course, all Mediaset España’s business lines must be profitable in their own right. The initiatives carried out by Mediaset España is a leading audio-visual company in Mediaset España is a profitable free-to-air television company the Group to strengthen its digital platforms through the content broadcast and production. For this reason and due thanks to its ability to monetise advertising campaigns with distribution of its contents have paid off. In this sense and to new clients requesting audio-visual products, the Group an efficient and competitive programming / production costs taking into account that part of the strategy will pivot on the has been promoting alliances with them for the sale of series, structure. This efficiency is down to its ability to attract varied development of the digital business, actions to increase the films, programs, etc. and exploitation methods. and large audiences, who are increasingly better taken care Group’s coverage will be started, without jeopardizing the of thanks to the diversity of content offered on its eight freepositive profitability of this activity. The objective is to Mediaset wants to offer its audio-visual products with a to-air channels and its digital platforms. In addition, Mediaset attract those audiences that consume specific content multiplatform approach. Broadcasting through its eight has continued to promote HBBTV technology in 2019, another from the digital world to the world of television. Mediaset DTT channels, the launch of HBBTV, the Mitele and Mitele wndow into all our contents. Finally, the company launched España integrates the entire range of audio-visual content Plus platforms, the channels ‘ webs, the agreements set MitelePlus, a digital pay platform as a new initiative to boost through its different channels, either free-to-air, on its web with the main OTT players such as Netflix, Amazon, HBO and its television business. platform, on app’s, on the platform for mobile phones and YouTube, allow Mediaset to position itslef as audio-visual tablets and on any other new types of distribution that leader in the Spanish market. Furthermore, Mediaset has launched and will continue to may arise. create new program brands that will reinforce its leadership In this regard, Mediaset España created Mediterráneo, as an audio-visual company. As we have mentioned in the previous section, the new the first audio-visual conglomerate of Spanish production digital pay platform will be a new vehicle for the audio-visual companies, with greater experience in diversified contents The leadership in advertising share, revenue and profitability offer. It is expected to continue bringing in new audiences such as entertainment, fiction, film, sports events, digital is shown by the financial and operational data obtained. that complement Mediaset’s main audience. native formats and branded developments. Mediterráneo was created with a client base, that includes Mediaset España and other television channels such as TVE, Mediaset, Real Madrid TV, Telemadrid, Telefé and the BBC, as well as content distribution platforms such as HBO, Netflix and Amazon. ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 16 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT 2. FOLLOW-UP OF THE REGULATORY FRAMEWORK 3. SCALING THE ORGANISATION AND TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT OF RELATIONS WITH PROCESSES IN ACCODANCE WITH THE CONTROL BODIES AND PUBLIC INSTITUTIONS. COMPETITIVE SCENARIO. In an environment of continuous regulatory changes, Mediaset has always been a company that has promoted its both sectoral and economic-financial (accounting, tax and organisation’s productivity at all levels. This technological employment), Mediaset España seeks to efficiently adapt evolution that we are experiencing, which is also itself to these changes, prioritising strict compliance with the characterised by its vertiginous speed, forces the Group to new regulations that come into force. maintain a workforce that is in line with this transformation process. Mediaset España wants to take care of its Mediaset España has successfully implemented the organisation based on the skills that its employees have adaptations to all the new sectoral and competition demonstrated so far. These skills, including hard work, regulations brought in by the legislator. flexibility, commitment, loyalty and productivity have allowed the Group to continue being a leader in the audio-visual sector. Mediaset has been incorporating new employee profiles for several years now, in line with the new needs of content production and new advertising sales formulas. This process of modernising the workforce includes training plans that are specific to groups of employees. These plans will be aimed at maintaining and improving knowledge in the Company’s main areas. ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 17 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT STAKEHOLDER RELATIONS Mediaset España’s main stakeholders are those people or organisations that make its business activity possible or are The Ethical mailbox affected by it. They are identified in the main business provides a way of communicating any areas, under the Corporate General Management concerns about business coordination. practices that are contrary to the values of the Code Knowing the stakeholders expectations is a fundamental of Ethics, ethics and good faith aspect for business sustainability and therefore, Mediaset España incudes them in its management through various The Employee Portal and information, communication and interacction channels, in the corporate intranet are the order to be able to respond to their concerns, in the best main channels used to notify possible manner. the workforce of any relevant information and employees concerns and requirements are compiled via the varios Committees The corporate The roadshows, responsibility mailbox meetings, webcasts and maintains communications other means established by the with all those interested in the Investor Relations department responsible management of the and the Shareholders Office are audio-visual business, as well as the channels used to gather the with those seeking the company’s shareholders and investment cooperation with academic Regular meetings and direct community’s concerns and assignments or when developing contact with the manager of each respond to them tools related to social purchase allow for fluid dialogue responsibility with suppliers, who also have an email address through which they can raise their concerns and needs The Company’s involvement in Audience measurements major media associations allows allow the suitability of the It channels it to intervene in the development content offered to be gauged; interaction with of those initiatives that regulate the the forums and blogs on its advertisers through media sector at a national, regional web pages facilitate dialogue media agencies and international level. with the audiences ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 18 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT Main Stakeholders and tools for communication and dialogue Employees Artist and professionals of the Shareholders and investors Public Administration Community sector HR Division A Annual Reports National StockMarket Collaboration Agreements with Corporate Intranet Artistic Hiring Dept. A General Shareholders Meeting Commission (CNMV) Universities Employee Portal Special Production Division T Results presentation and webcast National Stock Markets and Social Organisations: Corporate Notice Board Roadshows Competition Commission Responsibility Management HR App Working breakfasts (CNMC) rc@telecinco.es Equality Agent Meetings and conference calls Secretary of State for Information Employment Portal T Health and Safety Committees Society and Digital Agenda http://www.rrhhempleo.telecinco.es/ Shareholders office Workers’ Committees and Trade (T. 91 358 87 17) (Ministry of Economy and Exercise of ARCO rights Union representatives Investor Relations Area Business) privacidad@mediaset.es Ethical mailbox inversores@mediaset.es Directorate General for the Communications Division (T. 91 396 67 83) Regulation of Gaming (Ministry mediasetcom@mediaset.es of Economy) Corporate Responsibility Ministry of Culture rc@telecinco.es Spanish Data Protection Agency (AEPD) Suppliers Audience Competition Advertisers Trade Unions Purchasing and General Services Programme web sites European Association of Publiespaña Commercial Notice boards Managements Social Networks Commercial Television (ACT) Management  Digital board on the corporate Restricted access web site for Blogs, digital events, forums C Joint Commission for the Association for the Selfintranet suppliers Opinion surveys and audience Monitoring of Regulation of Commercial Worker’s Committee E  -mail: comprasyservicios@ measurements the Self-Regulation Code Communication Social Networks and blogs telecinco.es Responsible Media Forum (AUTOCONTROL) Media Agencies FREQUENCY Continuous A Annually T Quarterly C Three times a year ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 19 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT RISK MANAGEMENT SYSTEM COMPREHENSIVE RISK MANAGEMENT The Risk Management System introduced in 2007, based on COSO II, which has been regularly updated since then, ensures a comprehensive risk management which aims to identify, control and manage significant risks that may affect compliance with the defined objectives. Audit and Compliance Acquisitions Security Data Board of Risk Compliance and Prevention and Sales Management Protection Directors Committee Internal Committee Unit Committee Committee Unit Audit Annual Plan Internal Audit Management Processes and The highest governing Delegated body of the Reports to the Audit Reports to the Audit It is responsible Among its main Reports to the Control Map body. Its tasks Board of Directors. Its and Compliance and Compliance for analysing the functions are those Corporate General include the approval responsibilities include Committee. It is Committee,. Among economic and of reviewing, approving Management of the and monitoring, ascertaining, checking the body through its tasks is that financial information and promoting the company. It has the following a report and supervising the which the executive of ensuring the of any production, Security Policy, as well task of establishing from the Audit and suitability and integrity risk management application of the Code the purchase of as monitoring critical and maintaining the Compliance Committee, of the process of functions are carried of Ethics by the various goods or contracting security incidents that Privacy Model on the of the risk control and preparing financial out in the Company’s Group companies and services exceeding have taken place in processing of personal management policy, information, internal day-to-day operation, assess their degree of €20,000 per year, or the Group. data. including fiscal risks, as control and the risk laying down the compliance, ensure when faced with the Law 262/05 well as the supervision of management systems, framework for the compliance with opportunity of buying (Italy) internal information and ensuring compliance Group’s Integrated Risk the Internal Code / selling rights or other control systems. with the Risk Policy. Management. of Conduct, manage types of sales. the complaints channel and internal investigations, or establish and update Risk the necessary controls Management for the prevention and Policy detection of criminal behaviour. Risk Map Risk Assessment Internal Control Over Financial Reporting Code of Ethics Crime Prevention and Detection Model Policies and Procedure System (ICFR) ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 20 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT The Risk Management Policy establishes guidelines for the identification and evaluation of risks and responses to Comprehensive Risk Management Policy them, as well as control and supervisory activities. Within this framework, the company has mapped all processes involving business and structural operations so as to identify those that are key and critical to achieving the strategic objectives, on which periodic testing is carried out in order Identification Evaluation Risk Map Action Plan Monitoring to validate proper compliance. Likewise, the Group has implemented an Internal Control Over Financial Reporting System (ICFR) which ensures The “owners” of the The risk “managers” The risk “managers”, The “owners” / “managers” The Internal Audit the reliability of the financial information reported by the business processes of the (those responsible for together with the Internal of risks define the actions Department supervises Group’s companies on an individual basis as well as the company’s value chain carrying out the actions Audit Department, assess required as a specific control and monitors the execution consolidated financial information, compliance with the identify the events which, that are part of the including in the Company’s mechanism for each identified of the controls defined in if materialised, can affect business process) assess Risk Map the events that risk the Action Plan relevant legislation and the correction of any weaknesses the development of the the risks according pose a potential threat to observed, minimising risks related to the reflection of these processes and the fulfilment to their probability of the achievement of the operations in the Group’s annual accounts. of its Management occurring and their Management objectives objectives possible impact on the business Furthermore, Mediaset España has implemented the necessary procedures to comply with Italian Law 262/05, regarding processes and control related to accounting information. Annual Annual training on training on accounting auditing and standards Hours of tax updates training 180 Annual training to all personnel involved in the preparation and supervision of financial information and the evaluation of the ICFR ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 21 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT Risk Map The Internal Audit Management carries out analysis, supervision and evaluation of the risks, and coordinaton of the action plans required to mitigate them and the Implementation of action monitoring system Approval by the Audit and policies, procedures and proThe KRIs are reviewed Compliance Committee. cesses. IT tools are applied that quarterly in the Risk allow the identified risks to be Reviewed twice a year by Committee mitigated. the Internal Audit Management and updated annually. Each identified risk is assigned a specific During the monitoring employee, responsible and review process, the for its monitoring and expectations that the main management. managers in key areas of business, investors, regulators, customers and suppliers may have with regard to the company are taken into account, as well as well as relevant events that have occurred internally or externally and have had a potential impact on activity, legislative developments and best practice recommendations that might be applicable in the management of the business. ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 22 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT COMPLIANCE AND PREVENTION UNIT Main activities Risk l Definition  and updating the criminal risk map. Management l E  stablishment and updating of the necessary controls for the prevention Policies and and detection of criminal conduct. Procedures l Management  of the complaints channel and internal investigations. l S  upervise and coordinate the application of the Code of Ethics by the different Group companies. l A  nnually evaluate the level of compliance with the Code of Ethics.  Code of Ethics Comprehensive risk management Corporate policy Main activity in 2019 security policy l Adaptation A daptation to the UNE 19601. Regulatory l Evaluation Evaluation of crimes against the environment. Compliance l Review Review of the controls that mitigate criminal risks and update of the Policy Criminal Risk Map. l Updating Updating of the procedures pr and policies that support the Crime Prevention and Detection Model. l Training Training on Criminal Risk Prevention for the entire workforce. l Distribution of the Code of Ethics. Distribution Internal rules of conduct in the stock market Compliance System Certification ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 23 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT CODE OF ETHICS PRINCIPLES AND VALUES OF THE CODE OF ETHICS The Mediaset Esapaña Group has a Code of Ethics which CONFLICTS OF l  Compliance with the legislation in force establishes the fundamental values and principles INTEREST ARE l  Corporate Responsibility that govern the Company and to which the following are  Freedom of information and opinion REGULATED BY l subject: all employees, managers and Board members, as  Equal opportunities and non-discrimination THE CODE OF l well as subsidiaries and all those individuals and companies who have any type of relationship with Mediaset España in ETHICS AND the course of their professional or business activities. This THE GROUP’S Code has been updated at the proposal of the Compliance and Prevention Unit and approved by the Board of Directors INTERNAL CODE OF CONDUCT. THE MAIN SECTIONS OF THE CODE OF ETHICS in July 2019. l Legal and regulatory compliance. The control of compliance with the Code of Ethics is the l Conflict of interest. responsibility of the Internal Audit and Human Resources l Confidentiality and confidential information. Management. The Internal Audit Management carries out l Privileged information. control procedures over the effective application of the l Integrity, responsibility and transparency of financial information. corresponding procedures and codes as well as the pertinent l Equality and non-discrimination. investigation related to any possible case of irregularity, l Health and safety at work and environmental protection. fraud or corruption that may be submitted to this area, l Intellectual and industrial property. who must pass the case on to the Audit and Compliance l Money laundering and terrorist financing. Committee. l Freedom of expression and journalistic independence. l Commercial relations and commercial relationships with competitors. Conflicts of interest are regulated by the Code of Ethics and l Privacy and data protection. the Group’s Internal Code of Conduct. Establishing clear l Fraudulent and Deceptive Practices. performance criteria and rules intended to avoid situations l Anti-trust regulation. that create uncertainty surrounding the interests behind l Duty of communication . the actions of any person forming part of the company, with l Management of any breaches of the Code of Ethics. the ultimate aim of ensuring integrity in content creation and dissemination. Further information In turn, the Company has implemented several procedures The Board’s regulation is available on our website to mitigate the risk of conflicts of interest: that promote https://www.mediaset.es/inversores/es/Consejo_de_Administracion.html transparency and good working practices, such as the Acquisitions and Sales Committee Procedure, the Purchase of Goods and Services Procedure, the Procedures for Signing Contracts and the Procedures for the Management of Powers of Attorney. ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 24 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT To avoid potential conflicts of interest in content creation and GROUP CONTROLS TO MITIGATE THE RISKS OF CORRUPTION AND BRIBERY / or its disclosure, all content creation orders are reviewed, analysed and finally approved by the Group’s Acquisitions IN 2019, NO l  Powers matrix and use policy Committee. In the case of any purchase / sale of content with CLAIMS OF l  Separation of duties a shareholder or company owned by Mediaset España, said  Acquisition process for Broadcast and/or Format Rights CORRUPTION l transaction must be previously authorised by the Committee  Purchasing and acquisitions procedure AGAINST THE l or by the Board of Directors, if necessary. l  Contract signing procedure GROUP OR ITS l  Acquisitions and Sale Committee Moreover, various mechanisms are in place to detect and EMPLOYEES l  Supplier approval and evaluation protocol resolve potential conflicts of interest between the company  Travel expenses and expenses procedure and its directors in order to avoid behaviour that might cause HAVE BEEN l l  Procedure for making and accepting gifts and invitations harm to the company or its shareholders. RECEIVED. l  Donation and sponsor management Proctol l  Contractual clauses on criminal risks in contracts with third parties These mechanisms are defined in the Board of Directors’ l  Conventional advertising orders associated with a commercial agreement regulations. The Code of Ethics, together with the Regulatory Compliance Policy and the Detection and Prevention of Crime Protocol, establish the scope of action to prevent and avoid actions that may be considered practices of corruption, bribery, fraud Anticorruption training procedures 2019 or any behaviour classified as crime by the Criminal Code. The separation of duties, reflected in the Processes and Control Map, which was established to prevent critical activities of Criminal Risk Managers and each production process falling on the same person or in Senior Managers prevention and board members the same area, helps to reduce the risk of corrupt practices. Public Liability mitigation Public Liabitiliy In turn, the Economic and Financial Management has exhaustive controls in place to verify all collection and payment transactions for its income and expenditure operations. 227 people 1,362 hours 2 people 16 hours 1 person 5 hours As part of the Annual Audit Plan, the Internal Audit Department carries out the analysis of the risks related to corruption or other criminal behaviour in the lines of activity that have the greatest imapct on the Group. In 2019, these risks have been reviewed in all the Group’s business units. ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 25 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT Control procedures for the supply chain management ANY PURCHASE OF GOODS AND Prior to the contracting of services or SERVICES IN goods, the Suppliers Approval Protocol is applied: an analysis of suppliers’ The contractual relationships take into The suppliers that provide their services THE COMPANY solvency, tax residence certificates in the account matters related to Personal Data inside the Group’s facilities must comply case of non-residents and contractors’ Protection (DP) and the contracting of with requirements related to the IS REGULATED certificates in the case of residents, Policies Public Liability and damage insurance. Prevention of Occupational Risks. and Quality Certifications and CSR THROUGH THE ACQUISITIONS AND SIGNING CONTRACTS All contracts include some PROCEDURES, sort of DP clause to comply with criminal law. AND IT IS THE PURCHASING AND GENERAL SERVICES Contract Signature DEPARTMENT It is mandatory for any Acquisitions Committe requests for the purchase of goods that exceeds 150,000 Approval of any purchases in THAT IS excess of €20,000 euros, or contracting services regardless of its amount RESPONSIBLE FOR CARRYING OUT AND SUPERVISING THE MANAGEMENT THEREOF. ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 26 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT The Company has also implemented measures to minimise In turn, any employee, executive, director and or the risk of its employees committing any offenses or crimes collaborator of Mediaset España that may have reasonable involving aggressive behaviour. In this respect, Mediaset MEDIASET grounds for suspecting that practices contrary to the España guarantees that security personnel subcontracted ESPAÑA HAS principles and values of the Code of Ethics or ethical by them have received training in the Human Rights practices and good faith in business are taking place, INSTALLED A area and hold the official Security Guard qualification which may communicate them through the Ethical Mailbox, includes a training module on this area. MANAGEMENT available on the company intranet, previously named AND FRAUD complaints channel. This mailbox can be used as a channel Mediaset España only works with security companies that ALERT SYSTEM for complaints, queries or suggestions to improve regulatory have been authorised by the Interior Ministry and all compliance and good corporate management and its use is security guards have a Professional Identity Card. On IN ORDER regulated in the “Procedure for the use and management of the other hand, offences or aggression committed in the TO PREVENT the ethical mailbox”. workplace by any employee of the Group, are duly sanctioned UNLAWFUL by the Disciplinary Regime of the applicable Collective PRACTICES Every six months, a pop-up reminds all employees and Agreements. collaborators who work in Mediaset España, of the existence OR DETECT of the Ethical Mailbox. In the normal course of business, Mediaset España manages EVIDENCE OF the participation of under-age artists in its programmes SUSPICIOUS The Secretary of the Compliance and Prevention Unit in strict compliance with the criteria and procedures will analyse and assess the accuracy and credibility of OPERATIONS. established for this purpose by the Department of the information received, raising those it deems justified Employment in the Madrid Regional Government, ensuring with the Audit and Compliance Committee, for its final that their rights to education and the enjoyment of their free evaluation. It will also guarantee and appropriately ensure, time are not infringed. In turn, the Code of Ethics regulates the correct and complete protection of privacy and individual behaviour to avoid attitudes that can be termed the confidentiality of the information disclosed, and as corruption of minors. Mediaset España also carries out the identity of the persons involved. Likewise, it must the constant review of its activities and the sets on which assess whether it can initiate the investigation on the minors work, in order to ensure full security and full respect information received or remit it to the Compliance for their rights. and Prevention Unit. In 2019, no queries, complaints or suggestions were received via the Ethical Mailbox. Mediaset España has installed a management and fraud alerts system in order to prevent unlawful practices or detect evidence of suspicious operations. The system has key indicators regarding the primary process of the Group related to revenue, costs and IT systems and they are monitored on a daily basis by automated control mechanisms covering the information recorded in the main applications that support the said processes. ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 27 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT Main risks and management mechanisms STRATEGIC IMPACT MAIN RISK DESCRIPTION OBJETIVE MANAGEMENT MECHANISM MATERIALISED MANAGED INDICATORS SPEED The Group has set up a working team in which all regulatory changes are analysed in detail by senior management, so that any unexpected decision can be coped with immediately and its impact on the Mediaset is present in company can be minimised. In 2019, several the working groups 1. Number of disciplinary created to assess new disciplinary In turn, given the regulator ‘s continuous monitoring over the content procedures were regulatory changes procedures in the broadcast on the channels, the Group has developed processes and Significant regulatory changes or filed for nonand it also quickly year compared to implemented appropriate precautionary measures at the editorial changes in the interpretation of compliance. The implements all last year. control level to ensure that restrictions on broadcasting of content existing accounting, tax, criminal, most important is regulatory changes 2. Number before the watershed are complied with and that these are properly employment, competition, data the one received that occur and affect of closed BREACH OF catalogued, with viewers being advised beforehand. protection regulations, as well from the CNMC it. Regarding the procedures that REGULATORY The advertising management systems implement controls to comply SLOW as regulation of audio-visual and in November 2019 CNMC’s resolution, have resulted FRAMEWORK with legal obligations regarding the advertising blocks that can be advertising sector, which may affect for an amount Mediaset España has in an economic programmed into the grid. the development of the business of 38.9 and communicated its sanction and the fulfillment of the strategic the imposition complete disagreement 3. Economic On the other hand, through the Company’s Institutional Relations objectives. of various with the CNMC’s significance of area and its membership of relevant sector associations, the Group restrictions on decision and has filed the files. participates in the development of regulatory frameworks related to the marketing of an appeal before the business activities. advertising Audiencia Nacional (National Court) However, it should be noted that the evaluation criteria for broadcasting content are entirely subjective and therefore it is difficult to eliminate this risk entirely. The expansion of the tv offer due to Since 2015, the consumption of pre-recorded programmes is Free to air TV the incorporation of OTT platforms considered within free-to-air television consumption, and since 2017, Mediaset has increased consumption LOSS OF TV COVERAGE together with new consumption guest consumption. This new measurement has led to an increase in investment to be able Kantar Media AND A DROP IN patterns may lead to a decrease in the total consumption of free to air TV. Yes to offer its audio-visual and digital SLOW CONSUMPTION BY TV consumption and, consequently, On the other hand, Mediaset focuses on live content programming, products on other consumption OTHER PLATFORMS a loss of coverage and awareness of which is more geared towards on-the-spot rather than on-demand consumption platforms through free to air TV. consumption. Comscore The television business is directly “Since the beginning of the crisis, the Group has adopted measures 1. Advertising ADVERSE POLITICAL related to economic growth and aimed at controlling both business and structural costs. These investment AND MACROECONOMIC therefore this is an external factor measures will be maintained for some time, given the current No Not applicable VERY FAST Evolution ENVIRONMENT that has a direct impact on the economic climate. 2. GDP Evolution business. Explore new formulas for operational income.” CULMINATION OF TRANSFORMATION INTO AN AUDIO-VISUAL COMPANY SCALING THE ORGANIZATION MONITORING REGULATORY FRAMEWORK SLOW (>12 months) FAST (6-12 months) VERY FAST (<6 months) ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 28 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT STRATEGIC IMPACT MAIN RISK DESCRIPTION OBJETIVE MANAGEMENT MECHANISM MATERIALISED MANAGED INDICATORS SPEED “Strong competition in the audio-visual sector where high fragmentation is enhanced by the entry of new agents into the market. Therefore, not only Mediaset España is there greater competition to Mediaset España strongly supports the promotion of all content continues to be acquire content that is attractive broadcasting platforms, with Television as the main platform. It is also committed to to users and interesting economic working on initiatives that seek to combine TV content with the digital multimedia and to conditions for the company, but environment. that end it has created also new creators and broadcasters specific teams for New OTT Audience data for COMPETITORS AND of in-house audio-visual content Mediaset continues with its strategy of enhancing its products by the digital field in competitors have DTT and on-line FAST MARKET CONDITIONS emerging. purchasing new events, as well as strengthening its entertainment and the commercial and appeared. channels. fiction products in order to successfully compete. marketing areas. It In turn, the new content platforms continues working are not subject to the same Mediaset has created the company Producciones Audiovisuales hard on an investment obligations and limits as television Mediterráneo to promote the production of products such as fictional level for the continuous channels. series and other programmes. As well as, the sale of these products. development of its multimedia platforms.. These new platforms cause a change in consumption habits that impacts on television consumption.” From the perspective of leadership in profitability, Mediaset España The threat of losing leadership in carried out a thorough monitoring process of the state of the profitability and audience share, advertising market in order to achieve the appropriate billingcosts Advertising share as a result of a change in the profitability mix, without affecting its audience leadership. value achieved advertising pricing strategies of the LOSS OF LEADERSHIP No N/A by the group in FAST main competitors and/or due to a To this end, the company maintains its operational scheme of relation to the lack of adapting the strategies for broadcasting most of its programmes as in-house production, total investment selling advertising to the evolution achieving an increased capacity to contain costs. of TV consumption. Mediaset tries to strengthen its leadership through its products and brands. The Management of the Communications Department is responsible for maintaining the corporate image through the continuous monitoring of any news or activity that could cause a crisis impacting Mediaset España’s image. In coordination with the Managment of the Multiplatform Deparment, it also monitors any developments on social Mediaset España owns many networks. brands, both corporate and Number of products associated with its incidents It has also strengthened its coordination with the programme Due to this risk, the REPUTATIONAL programmes, it is therefore, produced producers to improve reaction times. No Group has activated its VERY FAST DAMAGE exposed to situations that may affecting response protocols . threaten its corporate image, the Group’s When a situation of potential conflict is detected, the Management and the image of the channels it reputation. of the Communications Department coordinates with, informs and broadcasts and their programmes. advises the CEO on which measures are necessary. Mediaset collaborates through projects/campaigns for equality, protecting the environment, defense of health, awareness of data protection and privacy, and is committed to education as a means of achieving a better society. CULMINATION OF TRANSFORMATION INTO AN AUDIO-VISUAL COMPANY SCALING THE ORGANIZATION MONITORING REGULATORY FRAMEWORK SLOW (>12 months) FAST (6-12 months) VERY FAST (<6 months) ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 29 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT STRATEGIC IMPACT MAIN RISK DESCRIPTION OBJETIVE MANAGEMENT MECHANISM MATERIALISED MANAGED INDICATORS SPEED The appreciation of the dollar against the euro has had an impact The company has contracted the necessary hedging and exchange Exchange rate FINANCIAL on the TV business, as broadcasting No Not applicable FAST insurance contracts to mitigate any potential negative impacts. evolution rights are purchased in markets that operate in this currency. The constant and increasingly rapid technological evolution affects the way television is consumed. The Mediaset España monitors the evolution and effects that technological Investment TECHNOLOGICAL lack of adjusting infrastructure, transformation can have on television and carries out the appropriate No Not applicable percentage SLOW TRANSFORMATION systems, applications and platforms investments for the development of adjusted technologies and approved to this evolution can have a infrastructures. negative impact on business sustainability. “Mediaset España has established solid contracts with first-line providers for digital file hosting. Technological advances and the decline in associated In turn, it has defined procedures for controlling the content flow to costs facilitates the possible different platforms and technical audits are carried out in order to unauthorised access to music review its correct application. and audio-visual content and this Number of PIRACY content can be quickly shared by No Not applicable incidents related FAST Additionally, it has an external content monitoring service on youtube, users of new technologies, without to this risk. which tracks and removes all content owned by Mediaset from this authorisation from the legitimate channel. owners of the rights and without any payment of corresponding With regard to films, the company has a contracted monitoring system royalties. with which it fights against the illegitimate access to content, during the period in which the film is broadcasted in cinemas.” Mediaset continuously Mediaset España has defined a Cyber Security Risk Map for the Group monitors new viruses and the corresponding controls and mitigation measures. / vulnerabilities that Damage caused by third parties appear. In 2019, Number of on the service platforms, resulting It has also established periodic reviews, both in terms of users there have been no incidents related CYBER ATTACKS in the interruption of services and system vulnerabilities, and it has internal and external audits No significant security VERY FAST to this risk and provided to customers and / or a contracted and procedures for the appropriate treatment of incidents. incidents. We have only risks materialised. breach of personal data protection. received virus alerts on The Group has an attack mitigation service through Denial of Service computers that have (DOS). been resolved with the corporate anti-virus tool. CULMINATION OF TRANSFORMATION INTO AN AUDIO-VISUAL COMPANY SCALING THE ORGANIZATION MONITORING REGULATORY FRAMEWORK SLOW (>12 months) FAST (6-12 months) VERY FAST (<6 months) ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 30 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT STRATEGIC IMPACT MAIN RISK DESCRIPTION OBJETIVE MANAGEMENT MECHANISM MATERIALISED MANAGED INDICATORS SPEED Litigation and disputes that the Group maintains or may maintain A continuous Mediaset España, via its Directors and advisors, evaluates the risk for all with third parties in employment, monitoring of existing litigation and disputes and, in those cases where the risk is probable LAWSUITS criminal, tax, contentiousNo litigation is carried out Nº of new cases. SLOW and its economic effects are quantifiable, adequate provisions are administrative or civil and by the Legal deparment provided. commercial jurisdiction matters and the affected areas. pending final resolution. Acquisition and / or production The Programming Management has a new product research unit that Yes, without a LOSS OF INTEREST IN of content and / or programming Number of is continuously looking at the market searching for new products. material impact Not applicable FAST THE CONTENT OFFER decisions that are not of interest to incidents. on the business. the audience. Failure in the key systems or The Group has defined a business continuity plan that guarantees infrastructures of the business the immediate availability of personnel, systems and key platforms INTERRUPTION OF Number of that may cause an interruption to necessary to continue broadcasting. To do this, it carries out No Not applicable VERY FAST BUSINESS incidents. broadcasting, with the consequent the necessary training and investments in infrastructures and impact on profitability. technologies. Filtering of relevant confidential information (content, financial Mediaset has defined different protocols to ensure the confidentiality Number of data, commercial policy or other of information. The Code of Ethics, Corporate Security Policy, the BREACH OF incidents sensitive business information), protocol for the communication of information to the CNMV. In No Not applicable VERY FAST CONFIDENTIALITY related to leaked which can have a significant addition, privacy clauses are being included in contracts with its information. impact on the company’s ability to suppliers. achieve its strategic objectives. CULMINATION OF TRANSFORMATION INTO AN AUDIO-VISUAL COMPANY SCALING THE ORGANIZATION MONITORING REGULATORY FRAMEWORK SLOW (>12 months) FAST (6-12 months) VERY FAST (<6 months) The risk associated with the possible impacts derived from climate change, both physical and transitional, exists and has been integrated into the Mediaset Group’s Risk Management System, although, given the activity carried out, it does not have a significant strategic or financial impact on the development of the Mediaset Group’s audio-visual business, according to the Management’s assessment. ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 31 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT PERSONAL Legal Deparment DATA PROTECTION The appropriate management of personal data is paramount Internal Audit in the business and for this reason, the Mediaset Group has implemented a Personal Data Protection Model, together with specific processes and measures to ensure an optimal and responsible management of data privacy and to comply with the applicable regulations. Personal Data Protection The General Framework for the Privacy Management of Unit Personal Data includes the functions assigned to each of the areas involved in privacy management. The Personal Data Protection Unit is responsible for centralising the privacy IT security management of data for all Group companies, reporting directly to the Mediaset Group senior management. Data Protection Delegate In turn, the Personal Data Policy, establishes guidelines for the optimal and responsible management of privacy and data protection, the Code of Ethics establishes the premises that should govern professional relations in this area and the procedures or protocols determine how different situations are to be handled. Incident Management Procedure Analysis of a Proposal, evaluation and implementation of Notify the Security Incident In the event an RegIster incident possible breach the necessary actions to Committee notification circuit incident affects an of the GDPR correct the incident interested party, he/she Notify the Data would be informed of Protection the actions carried out Agency to correct it. ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 32 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT In 2019, the General Framework for the Privacy Management of Personal Data implemented in the Mediaset Group was reviewed and, as a result, improvement plans were put in place. In turn, two protocols have been General Data established to ensure compliance with regulations on Protection Regulation Ways of personal data protection and guarantee digital rights: the receiving Monitoring Protocol and the Digital Disconnection Policy. complaints In 2019, 1,070 requests for the exercise of ARCO rights (access, rectification, cancellation, objection, portability, suppression and limitation) were received and managed, Regulatory Organic Law on the Protection of related to the deregistration of registered users in Framework Personal Data and the Mediaset Group’s digital channels and the removal guarantee of digital rights. of images published on the Group websites. Likewise, there Ctra. have been no claims based on leaks, theft or loss of personal Fuencarralprivacidad@ Agency for the Protection of data. Alcobendas 4 mediaset.es Personal Data Madrid 28049 Personal Data Protectiontraining sessions 221 1,361 hours participants ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 33 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT CIBERSECURITY Head of IT Security The increase in the volume of information handled by the company, as well Legal as the use of technology both for information management and for the Deparment development of the business itself, which is progeressing in digital formats, Technology Representative requires a security framework that guarantees the integrity, availability, Division confidentiality and access control of its informational assets and the services provided by the Mediaset Group. The Technology Division’s IT Security department, coordinates, operates Security and continually updates the security processes of the management and Management operations of the different areas of the Group’s business. Committee Audits of Internal Data Protection Delegate system and apps Audit The Security Policy establishes the action framework for information management vulnerabilities management, and is applicable to Mediaset España’s employees and managers. This is complemented by protocols and technical manuals that concern technical personnel and system administrators. The Security Plan developed by the Technology Division, based on the When new periodic review of risk and alignment with standard 27002, is the basis on Head of Physical Periodically services are Data Controller Security launched which the lines of action are established. Apart from constant monitoring, the Division carries out specific security audits of the various corporate environments, networks and systems, both those intended for end users and those for internal use, whether or not they are exposed to the Internet. For its part, the Business Continuity Plan establishes high availability and redundancy for services and information systems that are considered Propose and Development, carry out approved critical. review and shortand longpromotion of the term plans related to Security Policy. Verify the In addition, the Technology Division and the Head of Security, as part of security security Mediaset’s Privacy Committee, actively collaborate in the drafting and measures review of internal Privacy Policies and Procedures, as well as in privacy Review and track defined in the impact analyses and the recording, tracking and closing of incidents. Functions the most critical policy. security incidents ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 34 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT Cybersecurity is an increasingly important factor in gaining and maintaining the trust of users and customers. ISO 27001 OBJECTIVES OF INFORMATION SECURITY (not certified) DRILLS During 2019, Mediaset España has participated in simulations on the management of crisis situations with a cybernetic l Evaluate detection, analysis, containment, component, obtaining notable results. elimination and recovery capabilities in different attack vectors. ISO 27002 l Raise awareness of existing risks at all levels. (not certified) l “Cyber Crisis Management” promoted and l Improve internal communication of the companies organised by the Department of National Security in the event of a cyber attack. (DSN) and the Spanish Association for the l Assess and improve the level of resilience in case of Regulation and Promotion of Information Security (ISMS Forum informational assets’ attack. guidelines for Spain). Promote good practices in crisis management. l the sector l  “CiberMS 2019”directed and organised by the Spanish Association for the Promotion of National Security Information Security (ISMS Forum Spain). Additionly, in 2019, a new session was held to raise awareness Framework on cybersecurity among the staff, addressing the projects and initiatives carried out by the Group in this area, as well as A collaboration agreement has also been signed with the practical elements for the secure management of information Spanish National Cybersecurity Institute (INCIBE), promoted in IT environments, both at work and on a personal level. by Mediaset España’s Head of IT Security, by which INCIBE will be able to provide vaious services focused on promoting Mediaset España, represented by its Head of Security, has and fostering cybersecurity in the company and, specifically, participated in the XXIII STIC Conference of the National those aimed at detection, prevention, protection, response, Cryptology Centre (CCN) in the Digital Observatory module and mitigation, recovery, awareness, education and skills, training, it participates in the ISMS Forum Spain working group for the cybersecurity measurements and any other support and preparation of a Guide for Business Continuity Management in assistance activity for the company in this area. the event of IT incidents in suppliers. Head of IT Security Incident Management Procedure IT Security IT Security Director certified by the Ministry of Internal Convene Affairs the Security Committee Certified Data Privacy Evaluation of the Mitigating In the case the Professional (ISMS Detection of the incident incident by the actions incident affects Forum Spain) Head of Security data: Inform the Data Protection Delegate ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 35 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT CONTENT MANAGEMENT HOW IS IT Mediaset España’s audio-visual leadership in the Spanish NEWS CONTENT MANAGEMENT MANAGED? market, brings with it the responsibility of responsibly managing the content that it broadcasts, in order to Mediaset España’s newscast provides the viewer with the data l  Daily editors meetings to review the content to be broadcast and guarantee the sustainability of the business. For this purpose, and information necessary to critically assess the facts and draw already broadcasted, analysing both journalistic and entertainment activities are carried out their own conclusions. They do not express opinions, but carry those that have not adjusted to within the framework of a management model based on out journalism in accordance with the principles of veracity, the previously defined editorial compliance with the General Audio-visual Communication objectiveness and independence of the information transmitted, approach. Law, the Code for Self-Regulation of TV and Children and they carry out their work under the premise of freedom l  Citing sources when they are public and agree to be mentioned; Contents (hereinafter Code for Self-Regulation) and the of expression and information, professional secrecy and maintaining the confidentiality of the Company’s Code of Ethics and they are supplemented by non-discrimination. In turn, the debate programmes include sources when they request it. the editorial standards and other action guidelines for the representatives of all tendencies and positions, so that the viewers l   Permanent contact between sector, establishing the bases that must guide the internal have the possibility of comparing various opinions. journalists and area managers to update information. processes for the creation and broadcast of content. l  The Editorial Committee formed by the top managers of the company to go over the news highlights. Fundamental editorial aspects In the case of Mediaset España’s digital newspaper NIUS, it has its independent editorial team within the Group’s news area. Freedom of Rectification expression Professional Journalistic Secrecy independence NonPublic Interest discrimination Impartiality Plurality Veracity and diversity Rigour of of information sources Content quality information Relevance of Information ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 36 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT RIGOUR OF INFORMATION AND INDEPENDENCE The immediacy of information and the growing public concern about its veracity, because of the large volume of FAKE NEWSfake news that floods digital media, has made impartiality Denied Rectification DISINFORMATION and credibility in the provision of information services fundamental characteristics of these times. Likewise, our independence from political powers and business interests has become our main strength guranteeing the social licence to operate. In order to comply with these values and given the need to contrast and inform in the minimum period of time due to Informativos Telecinco and Noticias Cuatro produce the minute to minute activity, Mediaest España’s newcast between 80 and 90% of the content broadcast. Each When music or editors carry out a scrupulous verification of the source and image or content that is not produced in-house follows this cinematographic contrast it with a second source. In addition, it applies internal process: sequences are used, a management mechanisms to preserve the generation of report of the uses made contents from any governmental, shareholder, technical in each montage is sent or other kind of interference, guaranteeing the editorial directly to Mediaset independence recognised and valued by its audience. España’s Editorial Unit Register the source, department, which makes the origin and the the appropriate payments referred rights to the SGAE adopted by the Documentation department, to Reception proceed with its PRIVACY OF THE SOURCE through a subsequent technical room control The right to information and freedom of expression prevails when the news is of public and general interest. However, the Group’s news programmes guarantee the privacy of those who wish to give evidence anonymously, although when it For the specific use of is a proven crime, the right to information always prevails. freely available images Access to the content In turn, in order to guarantee the protection of privacy on on social networks, the depending on the rights the one hand and the exercise of the right to information limitation to which it is author has to be contacted on the other, the Group’s news programmes cite the Schedules in order to negotiate the subject previously conditions of use sources when they are public and have given their consent. provided Moreover, the identity of persons who have experienced by the an incident and who may be harmed by its distribution, Production such as mistreatment, harassment, etc., is never revealed. department Control of the contents’ intellectual property is carried out, as a previous and subsequent filter to the broadcast thereof ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 37 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT MANAGEMENT OF TV ENTERTAINMENT CONTENT With the new forms of audio-visual consumption, entertainment has a strategic place in the programming of generalist television and its live format is the most valued option by the Spanish audience. Since its INNOVATION beginnings, Mediaset España has been committed to keeping the public An essential element The New Projects for maintaining Area works with company through entertainment, with a strong commitment to producing Mediaset España’s production and its own in-house content and its live shows are its star format. To this end, leadership in the distribution companies Spanish market its model of responsible content management establishes the framework to capture for the creation and broadcasting processes.. new trends Analyses Develops the content to programming Conscious of what a challenge it is to keep viewers company be broadcast in ANTENNA order to allocate each strategies nowadays and after the creation of “circular television” DIVISION one a slot on on the to optimise programme concept, which uniquely unites content through programmes programming grid’s of different genres, Mediaset España offers the innovative performance of the Groups proposal of “transversal television”, connecting Telecinco and channels. Cuatro’s programming through one programme together with the largest digital and interactive format devolopment of the Group. MEASURES TO MITIGATE POTENTIAL CONFLICTS OF INTEREST IN THE CREATION AND DISTRIBUTION OF CONTENT l C  ode of Ethics HOW IS IT MANAGED? l Policies established l Meetings and Committees l The Production Committee, decides and establishes the general lines of the weekly contents l Measures for data collection and analysis of the in-house production programs and supervises the state of the productions underway. l Analysis of possible conflicts (production company hired, l The Content Committee, addresses issues related to the programmes content and the format, content, potencial partners and clients) themes of the Group’s different channels and their programming. l Robustness of the information channels   Supervision of the Content Management, defines the editorial lines and sends them to l the production management. These, in turn, are sent to the production companies to be monitored. The Executive Producers of the programmes are responsible for following up on their proper implementation. ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 38 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT The classification Analysis carried out given will determine Applying the Age the time slot in which to see if one or more of Rating System for each programme can CATEGORISATION audio-visual products the potentially harmful content categories are be broadcast. defined by the SelfOF AUDIO-VISUAL Regulation Code present. CONTENT Classification of all television content, except The presence, verbal or news programmes and event visual, intensity, realism or broadcasts, except frequency of this content will those which, because of their determine the age below content, require a specific which their viewing is not classification. recommended. Violence Language  Fear or anguish POTENTIALLY  Imitative HARMFUL behaviours CONTENT  Sex  Drugs and toxic substances  Discrimination ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 39 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT The Intellectual Property Management Protocol establishes the framework for the FILMS PRODUCED BY MUSIC CREATED FOR A MEDIASET ESPAÑA management of rights TELECINCO CINEMA PROGRAMME and duties in this area. l The distribution l They become part of the Grupo Editorial Tele5 company hires a catalogue. service to combat l An editorial contract is signed with each one of piracy, from the the authors of these works Assignment moment it is released l They are registered with SGAE, along with the contracts signed in cinemas until the music score. with the producers of the works DVD / Blu-Ray is PROTECTION OF launched. Mediaset España declares the use it makes of the entire musical, audio-visual and theatrical INTELLECTUAL repertoire to SGAE, which subsequently distributes AND INDUSTRIAL the rights generated as appropriate. PROPERTY Registration, by Mediaset Spain, of all the programs’ names (their brands) Supervised by the Legal Department and the Rights Acquisition Division ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 40 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT The daily analysis of programming and audiences is Sub-division and the cooperation of the Programming and carried out, in order to establish the necessary programming Marketing Directors. guidelines and make quick decisions to correct or strengthen the strategic programming choices, with the aim of adapting Since last year, work teams from the Antenna Division and the television offer to the audience’s preferences and the Self-Promotion Department have been formed to jointly achieving the desired results. tackle the campaigns from the outset, developing strategies to promote the products integrated into the programmes of In turn, external companies are commissioned to carry out the Group’s channels and websites. A very close collaboration market research on television content. has been established with the in-house production and Fiction Departments, as well as with the producers of the The editorial lines of self-promotion campaigns are programmes, with the aim of attracting the maximum managed under the direction and supervision of the Antenna number of viewers. Department’s Manager, along with the Self-Promotion The creative team of the Self-Promotion EDITORIAL TYPE OF Sub-Directorate creates the different elements of the AUDIENCE TO BE LINES TARGETED promotion, maintaining constant dialogue with the Antenna Division Management Audience satisfaction DAILY 11,800 QUALITATIVE STUDIES NEUROMARKETING HOUSEHOLD CONSULTATION INDIVIDUALS FOCUS GROUP 1,189 STUDIES 4,875 5 10 (VIA AN INDIVIDUALS AUDIMETER) HOUSEHOLDS Source: Kantar media Source: In-house studies ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 41 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT Mediaset España has defined and implemented a control system to assess and monitor the generated content, for the purpose of aligning content creation to the company’s values and its Code of Ethics and the Content Self-Regulation Code. CONTROL SYSTEMS LIVE PROGRAMMING PRE-RECORDED PROGRAMMING SELF REGULATION COMMITTEE ASSESSMENT AND Definition of the l  Quarterly meetings. MONITORING by the company programme content l  Attended by: managers from the with daily meetings attended guidelines and by the channel’s Managers Antenna Division, Content Production sending them to the and programme producers. All producers Once the programmes have Division and Institutional Relations aspects of the programme are been created and submitted Area. addressed, from the content by the producers, Mediaset l Objective: analyse complaints or to be broadcast or complaints España previews them to assess received to the images and claims received. compliance with the guidelines, captions to be used. the Code of Ethics, respect for l Action: human rights, rights of children a) Review and respond to complaints and the right to privacy. received; b) Defend the company against complaints/ claims that it considers After the executive production unfounded or, where appropriate, editorial control, acceptance of the claim in the event the programmes that it is deemed appropriate; are delivered to c) The International Relations Area the video library. SUPERVISION by the reports the results of the meetings to Executive Production Once this assessment has the Antenna Division and the Content team, either on the set been made, observations Production Division, with a view to or from the programme are sent to the production control room or watching correcting and improving the content companies for them to adapt the programme broadcast, the content accordingly that can be better adapted in the making observations to the before submitting the future. programmes directors if programme to Mediaset necessary. España again for further analysis and assessment JOINT MONITORING COMMISSION l  Analyzes the application of the SelfPROGRAMMES WITH CHILDREN REVIEW SCRIPT AND OUTLINES, PREVIEW PROGRAMMES Regulation Code and assesses the compliance by each of the television In addition to the controls referred to, the Child operators. During work meetings, the Executive Producers review Protection Authority is informed before the scripts and outlines, and in the case of pre-recorded content programme is broadcast and, when required, they preview the programmes or videso to be used, the programme is sent; usually monitored by applying their editorial criteria. the production companies ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 42 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT DIGITAL CONTENT MANAGEMENT Mediaset España offers its contents on as many windows and Mediaset España’s multimedia universe allows the user to enjoy the content whenever and wherever they devices as possible so that users can enjoy them whenever want and to participate in it. and wherever they want. Mediaset España’s digital platforms broadcast exclusively apps created content and reproduce the content broadcast on the Group’s television channels. The content coming from the TV channels is subject to the management mechanisms concerning the creation of content detailed above. The same age rating system used by Mediaset España for its programming is applied to the content created for the digital platforms, but instead of applying different broadcast slots, it uses the “fly” that indicates the recommended age. webs The videos created for the Group’s digital platforms are supervised and edited by the Multiplatform team, prior to publication, in order to ensure compliance with quality standards and respect for the corporate values assumed in relation to the creation of content. HOW IS IT MANAGED? social networks l  Content Committee to address issues related to the Group’s content. l Digital Committee to evaluate the evolution of the digital environment. l Automated word filtering, to avoid incitement to hatred through comments posted on social networks or digital platforms. NIUS, Mediaset España’s digital newspaper, is managed by Informativos, which is in charge of managing its of each channel, programme or series content. ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 43 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT ATTRACTING USERS TO THE GROUP’S MECHANISMS FOR PARTICIPATION AND Audio-visual content targeted exclusively to digital DIGITAL PLATFORMS INTERACTION WITH MEDIASET ESPAÑA USERS platforms. l Sending content through telegram. l Customer service: department created to provide l Subscription to and sending of newsletters. support to Mitele PLUS subscribers, via telephone, l Publication of content in AMP stories. e-mail, chat or social networks. l Reinforcement of the social network strategy. l Webs and Apps: The audience makes important l Creation of bots to offer the user the content decisions in the most viewed programmes and can they are interested in. generate content by participating in contests or l Create a call effect to provoke movement from initiatives that require their participation (sending All the content 24 hour Upcoming other platforms to the Group’s websites and TV responses or uploading content that they have designed for the Celebrity premieres or broadcasts. generated. platform. Big Brother special events l Promotion of digital content on TV and vice l Social networks of each programme and contact Channel, Mitele linked to the versa. mailboxes: users can express their opinions, PLUS, Mitele, programming. l SEO strategy to improve the positioning of the complaints, suggestions or questions. app. Group’s websites content in search engines. l Surveys, trivia or interactive games (via Playbuzz): the user interacts with the content on the channels. Exclusive content for subscribers. New digital channels SAFE Web for the ONLINE over 45’s where experience ENVIRONMENT matters New digital newspaper with all the latest Targeted Parental control information and advertising available on reports on webs mitele.es. The most widely followed Corporate sports news Security Policy for platform in the protection of Spain personal data ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 44 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT ADVERTISING MANAGEMENT Advertising, as the main source of revenue for the production, In order to avoid content that could be considered acquisition and distribution of the audio-visual content misleading advertising practices, Mediaset España calls that Mediaset España offers its audiences, is an essential on AUTOCONTROL to analyse and issue a report on any element for the sustainability of the business. Therefore, advertising that could be classified as misleading, such its management is part of the responsible business as advertising relating to gambling and betting, food management model established by the Group, carrying out supplements or toys, among others. its advertising activity through Publiespaña. To avoid surreptitious advertising, the commercial The Advertising Code of Conduct issued by the Selfdepartment that manages advertising and the Group’s Regulation of Commercial Communication Association legal department work very closely together, ensuring that (hereinafter, Autocontrol), which the company has adhered all advertising is duly identified in accordance with the to since its beginnings in 1995, and the Industry Codes of regulations in force and that it does not occur under any Conduct for the self-regulation of advertising constitute, HOW IS IT MANAGED? circumstances. together with the legislation in force, the framework of action for the responsible management of advertising in l  The design of the commercial policy primarily takes In its commitment to the digitalization of the business, the Group. In turn, the application of solid management into account the inventory capacity for broadcasting, Mediaset España has strengthened its digital advertising and internal control mechanisms guarantees their adequate the needs of the customers, the evolution of the products, investing in advanced analytical projects and Big implementation. advertising market itself, the legal framework and the Data technologies to improve knowledge of its users, allowing recommended good practices. the creation of new revenue models. From the outset, these The Sectoral Codes of Conduct regulate areas such as food l Weekly review and monitoring of the commercial projects have been supervised by the company’s legal and advertising aimed at minors, toy advertising for children, policy, by the General Management and the data protection teams, thus guaranteeing respect for the obesity and health prevention, environmental arguments in Directorates that control its implementation. privacy of users. The knowledge obtained has made it commercial communications, drug promotion, e-commerce l The Management Committee coordinates, on a possible to generate new personalised advertising products and interactive advertising, spirits, among many other issues. weekly basis, all initiatives and possible synergies that improve the results of advertising campaigns. For the first time, in 2019, a new framework for wet wipe between the commercial and publishing areas, advertising has been introduced, focusing on environmental among other matters. In 2019 the programmatic advertising model has been protection and the Health Technology Sector Code of Ethics l Consultation with AUTOCONTROL regarding consolidated, adding new types of sales and new technological has been reformed to bring it into line with new European the adaptation of creations to the regulations and partners, reaching agreements on programmatic advertising standards. guidelines. and guaranteed audience, increasing branded content l Voluntary submission of advertising to independent actions and incorporating programmatic sales solutions to control by por AUTOCONTROL. all the Group’s products. ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 45 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT Applicable Regulations and Advertising Deontological Provisions Code of Conduct, Advertising AUTOCONTROL. Sector Codes of Conduct applied by AUTOCONTROL. Advertising Code, Spanish Association of Fundraising. Directive (EU) 2018/1808. Provision of audio-visual media services. International Code of Royal Advertising Decree-Law Applicable Practice, 19/2018, on International payment services Regulations Chamber of and other urgent and Commercel financial (CCI). measures. Deontological Provisions Circular 1/2018 of the Spanish National Securities Market Royal Decree Commission, on 130/2018, on food warnings relating supplements. to financial instruments. Royal Decree 85/2018, cosmetic products. ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 46 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT In 2019 Publiespaña requested 1,419 Contents External Control Processes advertisement consultations from the Technical Office of Autocontrol, prior to its broadcast (Copy Advice), either in the story phase or in the final versions of the creative work, to reflect what the final production of the piece will include before it is recorded and to evaluate its compliance with the regulations or self-regulation codes in force. DEONTOLOGICAL PRIOR ADVERTISING On the other hand, Publiespaña made 68 CONSULTATIONS CONSULTATION COMMITTEE legal consultations to the Technical Office OR COPY ADVICE (deontological consultations), prior to the production of the advertising spots. Number of consultations Consultation with AUTOCONTROL’s Legal Consultation raised prior to an advertising After the advertisement has been 1,419 Department to solve any doubts related piece being broadcast at the request of a broadcast, any consumer with a legitimate to the regulation or self-regulation of client, where the company requests a report interest may file a complaint against a advertising or its interpretation. from AUTOCONTROL’s Legal Department specific advertisement broadcast in Spain on its ethical and legal correctness. by the company, when he or she considers The objective is to identify if there are any that the advertisement is contrary to the elements that could violate the current regulations or the self-regulation codes Code of Advertising Conduct, and within the time limits established for this purpose. 1,021 NO PROBLEMS WITH THE AD CONTENT for content and advertising to which the The resolution issued by this Board is Group adheres, and to be able to make the appropriate modifications. binding on the company. In this case, AUTOCONTROL’s control of the content is carried out after the advertisement 352 MODIFICATIONS TO THE AD ARE RECOMMENDED The report issued by AUTOCONTROL will 46 has been broadcast, in case of possible be on a specific piece of advertising and its BROADCASTING OF THE AD IS NOT controversies or complaints. RECOMMENDED opinion will be accepted by the company. If it is recommended that the advertisement should not be broadcast, the advertising campaign will be suspended. ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 47 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT WORKFORCE MANAGEMENT Human capital, a key element in guaranteeing the sustainable development of a business project, is one of EMPLOYER BRANDING Mediaset España’s fundamental assets. Therefore, its good management is a premise for the company and is part of the l A meticulous Trainees and Work Experience Students Policy model of responsible business management. l Master’s in Creation and Management of Audio-visual Content (9th edition) l Participation in external events attracting a large number of young professionals In order to ensure that the Group has the people who possess l Participation in the FEED digital job fair (6th edition) the necessary skills to successfully carry out the business l Event E = C+(a)2 (Success = knowledge + attitude squared) for employee’s children activities, understand and are committed to the company’s l Distribution of the project on Social Networks values and act as expected of them following the explicit and l An internal Career Site“Work with us” with testimonial videos of the Group’s implicit guidelines of the company, the Human Resources employee’s Management is responsible for managing the attraction, l Corporate page on LinkedIn motivation and retention of talent in the Group. l Dynamics of Employer Branding, together with Randstad Through the Employer Branding (EB) strategy, the HR Management seeks to promote the Mediaset España brand as an employer to attract new talent and improve the sense of pride and belonging among the current workforce. The attraction of talent is reinforced by the collaboration agreements with Universities and Business Schools that the Group maintains year after year. In terms of managing the motivation and retention of talent within the company, the Group has a robust management framework made up of Collective Bargaining Agreements, the various measures for reconciliation and fringe benefits, Equality Plans and Training Plans, which enable a stable and positive working climate to be maintained for the workforce and the business. ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 48 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK FOR EMPLOYMENT RELATIONSHIP Collective agreements: Permanent workers and temporary workers The Group’s employment relations are based on strict compliance with current legislation and regulations, the Publiespaña application of collective agreements and the fundamental ILO Telecinco Cinema Advertising Sector conventions ratified by Spain. Collective Agreement. Madrid’s Regional Collective Mediaset España Valid from 2016. Agreement for Office Workers, however, employees will benefit The Mediaset Group companies implement the various Mediaset España’s XII from any improvements provided for fundamental ILO conventions, ratified by Spain, by complying Collective Agreement. (in force) in the Mediaset España Collective with the applicable legislative, conventional and regulatory Agreement in force standards. Validity 2018-2021. Validity 2019-2021. Collective agreements regulate the rights and obligations of employees in each company of the Group and contribute to generating a positive working climate for both the company and its workforce. The Human Resources Department, together with the directors of the different areas of the Group’s Netsonic companies, is responsible for ensuring compliance with the Advertising Sector’s regulations applicable to each of the companies. Collective Agreement. Conecta 5 IValid from 2016. Madrid Regional Collective (in force) Collective bargaining is widely acknowledged and guaranteed Agreement for in the Mediaset Group companies, which recognise the Office Workers. Megamedia relevance of dialogue and the role played by workers’ Madrid Regional representatives. Proof of this can be found in the Collective Validity 2019-2021 Collective Agreement Bargaining Agreements that have been signed in the company for Office Workers. since 1992. SuperSport Validity 2019-2021. Within this framework, a Pre-Retirement Commission has Collective Agreement of been established to analyse and implement measures aimed Audio-visual at articulating a system of voluntary pre-retirement. Production Companies The minimum notice periods affecting workers and the (in force) Mediterráneo procedures for organisational changes are defined in the Employees are Workers’ Statute, in the Collective Bargaining Agreements Further information entitled to benefit in force and in any other applicable regulations, ensuring For information on minimum notice periods, from the improvements please click here compliance through the implementation of the legislation or established by the the agreement concerned. El Mediaset España Desmarque Collective Bargaining Note: Employees hired by a temporary On the other hand, both the exercise of freedom of association employment agency are covered by the Collective Bargaining Agreement in force agency’s Collective Agreement and the Agreement for the at any given and the freedom to join a trade union are fundamental rights provisions that are legally applicable to them Daily Press (prensa time. that have always been recognised and respected by the under the Agreement covering the company that employs them. diaria) company and this is reflected in the unitary and trade union Valid until 31 representation of the workforce, exercised through the Works December 2021 Councils and, where appropriate, the Trade Unions. ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 49 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT Fundamental ILO conventions (ratified by Spain)  Forced labour Convention concerning Convention. Mediaset freedom of association España guarantees the Convention on the Right non-existence of forced and protection of the right to Abolition of forced labour to Organise and Collective labour through the application organise. Mediaset España has Convention. Mediaset España Bargaining. Mediaset España of internal procedures and a Workers Committee with the includes clauses in the contracts has its own collective agreement, regulations, the Code of Ethics, presence of trade union delegates, with its suppliers that states their the result of collective bargaining application of collective elected via the union elections commitment to reject any type of with the employees’ legal agreements and strict that are held at the initiative forced labour representation compliance with current of one of its member unions every four years legislation Discrimination (employment and Minimum age Convention. Mediaset occupation) Convention. España respects the current legislation, Mediaset España has procedures with a prohibition on work by minors, except Convention concerning Equality Convention. The and bodies that ensure the correct in artistic activities. In the Group’s companies, the Prohibition and Group’s companies have compliance and application of and in those cases where minors participate in Immediate Action for the equality plans that include standards. Among others, the Code artistic activities, the corresponding authorisation Elimination of the Worst Forms carrying out studies which, to of Ethics, the Complaints Channel, the to participate in public shows is processed and of Child Labour. Mediaset España date, have not shown situations Equality Plans, the Equality Committee the criteria and procedures established by the extends its commitment to not that could be considered and the Equality Agent, Procedure for the Employment and Women’s Counsel of Madrid are use child labour to its chain discriminatory or constituting Management of Psychosocial Risk and strictly followed. Likewise, the necessary special of suppliers by introducing inequality in the workplace on Harassment, the Health and Safety measures for their protection in terms of clauses in contracts the grounds of sex Committee and the Joint Prevention health and safety are adopted, as well as the Service (“Servicio de Prevención appropriate training processes Mancomunado” or SPM) ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 50 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES, NON-DISCRIMINATION AND ZERO TOLERANCE TOWARDS HARASSMENT Mediaset España The various companies that make up the Mediaset Group VI Equality Plan. have specific measures in place to ensure the commitment Validity 2018 until assumed by the Group with respect to equal opportunities and 2021 non-discrimination. Both the Equality Plans and the Procedure for the Management of Psychosocial Risks and situations of PSYCHOSOCIAL Harassment in the working environment are distributed to EQUALITY RISK AND Mediaset Group all staff through internal communication channels, mainly HARASSMENT updated in 2019 through informative circulars, the corporate intranet and the Publiespaña PLAN Employee Portal, where there is a specific section on “Equality” VII Equality Plan. MANAGEMENT in which the full content of these documents is published. Valid until 2021 PROCEDURE Conecta 5 VII Equality Plan. Valid until 2021 HOW IS IT MANAGED? l  Code of Ethics: guarantees the principle of equal relationship are based on objective factors and never linked l  Equality Committee: is constituted by an equal number of opportunities and non-discrimination in all situations, to personal conditions of the workers such as gender, race company representatives and worker representatives. It has especially in all matters concerning access to employment, or religion, among others. the mission to ensure the implementation and supervision working conditions, training and professional development l Equality plans: the main objective is to ensure respect of the Equality Plans in force. and promotion, as well as the responsibility to establish for equal treatment and opportunities between men l  Equality Agent: carries out a specific function to provide measures to eliminate and prevent situations of harassment and women in all areas of work and preventing any support and guidance regarding the measures laid in the workplace. discriminatory situations. The plans contain self-evaluation down in the Equality Plans, as well as follow-up work and and monitoring measures which guarantee that both information on the degree of its implementation. l  Collective Agreements: ensure that the aspects such as company management and the Equality Committee ensure employment, assignment of work positions, remuneration, their proper application and fulfilment, and analyse the disciplinary regime or termination of the contractual degree of achievement of the objectives set. ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 51 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT Collective agreements establish the framework to guarantee TRAINING AND TALENT DEVELOPMENT equal treatment in the remuneration of all workers according to their employment category, as they officially contain the Staff training is essential for achieving the maximum salary tables for each professional category and set out the development of skills and talent required to maintain the applicable remuneration regime, irrespective of gender, ZERO TOLERANCE company’s leadership. indicating salary supplements and terms and conditions. TO HARASSMENT Exceptionally, some workers have an “ad-personam” AT WORK Therefore, a Training Plan is defined annually, based on the supplement assigned to them, which is due to their personal guidelines of the company’s management and the demands circumstances or to the position of trust in the post they generated by the evolution of the jobs. hold. Thus, there is an equal allocation of the basic salary between men and women and the salary supplements and On the other hand, Mediaset España contributes to their contractual conditions for the corresponding category, knowledge creation in the audio-visual sector through the regardless of gender. Master’s Degree in Content Creation and Management, launched in 2009 jointly with the Universidad Europea Management of Mediaset España has a zero tolerance policy towards any Psychosocial Risks de Madrid; the Professorship Mediaset-UEM (Universidad behaviour that may be considered abusive, humiliating, Code of Ethics and Harassment Europea de Madrid), created in 2013; and the Collaboration offensive or that may be considered as harassment, both Situations in the Agreements with State and Private Universities, and also with physical and psychological, specifically on the basis of Workplace Business Schools, to provide internships for their students in race, colour, gender, religion, ethnic origin, nationality, age, the company, encourage students to acquire technical and personal situation, sexual orientation, disability, physical human skills that qualify them to enter the employment condition or any other conduct prohibited by Law. market, at the same time as they build bridges for the creation of a future pool of new professionals that the company can access in the future to meet their needs for new talent. CHANNELS AVAILABLE TO WORKERS TO REPORT CASES OF HARASSMENT l Medical Service l Employment Relations Management l Ethical mailbox ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 52 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT BENEFITS AND WORK-LIFE BALANCE OCCUPATIONAL RISK PREVENTION Through the Worker Information and the Technical MEASURES Prevention Information Sheets, employees are informed of The Occupational Risk Prevention Plan, drawn up by the the risks existing in their job, the preventive measures to be Group’s Joint Prevention Service (hereinafter, SPM) based on adopted, the PPE to be used, the necessary training for that With the aim of facilitating gender equality, improving the information obtained from the various risk assessments job, health monitoring and how it relates to pregnancy, as workers’ quality of life, and promoting the health and wellbeing of the workforce and its environment, Mediaset carried out, constitutes the management framework for a well as the need to consult other sheets related to it, or the España voluntarily assumes the commitment to offer safe and healthy working environment at Mediaset España. physical exercises recommended for that job. its staff a range of benefits and reconciliation measures. This guarantees the company’s compliance with the provisions contained in the legislation and the requirements Thanks to the different periodic medical examinations, the These are granted regardless of the type of working day established in the quality standard for the prevention of Medical Service complements the information obtained from or employment contract, with the exception of certain occupational hazards ISO 45.001. The Plan is approved by the the Risk Assessments and enables us, in turn, to ascertain business gifts that are not covered by the collective Health and Safety Committee and by the Human Resources the worker’s aptitude to perform his or her functions and agreement, such as the Christmas hamper or toys, Department and is submitted to the Prevention Delegates. tasks. The Medical Service is located in both the Fuencarral where all workers, permanent or temporary, are required and Villaviciosa facilities and is available to any person who to comply with certain conditions in order to benefit. From this Plan comes the Annual Prevention Planning, requests assistance on the premises. which establishes the activities to be carried out during the course of the year to achieve the objectives defined in the There is also a Health and Safety Committee (hereinafter, Prevention Plan, and the Prevention Procedures. HSC), which is the body responsible for regular and periodic consultations regarding the company’s actions in the area of PERFORMANCE REVIEW Occupational Risk Prevention. The entire Mediaset España workforce is represented on this committee and Publiespaña The Performance Evaluation System makes it possible to and Megamedia also have such committees. Nonetheless, analyse, in a systematic and guided manner, the activities the entire workforce of the Group’s companies is guaranteed ANNUAL and responsibilities undertaken throughout the year and, in adequate health and safety protection through the SPM. PREVENTION turn, to define future actions for the development of work teams. This is done through a specific tool available in the PLAN With regard to health monitoring, periodic medical check Employee Portal, bringing agility to the process, reliability in ups are carried out. First, a mandatory check up is carried out, the historical data and transparency in the results. at least every 4 years, and audited periodically both internally and externally. Secondly, non-obligatory check ups are carried Publiespaña has been the Group’s pioneering company in out at the request of the workers concerned. Both medical implementing this system and, after more than ten years, check ups are supplemented by medical tests carried out by it can be said that it is at an optimum level of maturity in Given to the external laboratories, which are subject to compliance with terms of awareness and execution among its participants. Prevention The Health and quality standards. This system has been implemented in the rest of the Group’s Delegates at the Safety Committee companies. beginning of the reviews it quarterly The quality of Occupational Health Services is assessed year annually through quality audits. Also, workers have direct access to the respective HSC’s, quarterly, or the suggestion box, which is reviewed monthly. ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 53 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT The company’s senior management is informed of everything related to prevention on an annual basis via a specific report. At the same time, thanks to a specific application on the Corporate Intranet, executives and senior management are The personnel The necessary provided with quarterly information on the results obtained are informed of the measures are taken in the area of prevention, which is provided by the Group’s existing risks and of the to avoid or minimise preventive measures Joint Prevention Service. frequency or adopted in consequences each case This Occupational Health and Safety management system is designed so that any worker, guest, visitor or public on the Group’s premises is covered by it. Outside Spain, regardless of the country concerned, workers have access to all necessary medical assistance, repatriation Employees and other assistance they require through the services of the are trained in SPM’S ACTIONS The workers Mutual Insurance Society for Occupational Accidents and those tasks which, IF ANY are protected with Diseases. due to their risk or in accordance WORK-RELATED appropriate with existing legal RISK IS DETECTED equipment where necessary measures, require IN ITS such training. CHANNELS AVAILABLE TO WORKERS TO ASSESSMENTS COMMUNICATE DANGEROUS SITUATIONS IN THE WORKPLACE l Joint Prevention Service l Health and Safety Committee l Suggestion box (anonymous) All persons working in ares of conflict are provided with adequate regular training and the necessary PPE to carry out their work in these areas. ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 54 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT The supply chain management is part of Mediaset España’s responsible and sustainable business management. PRODUCTION Therefore, the company promotes responsible practices OF AUDIO-VISUAL CONSULTING CONTENT AND INSURANCE SERVICES within its sphere of influence by transmitting environmental, ADVERTISING 0.07% social and ethical standards to its supply chain. Mediaset España introduces clauses into its contracts that 75.68% 4.01% ensure responsible business behaviour throughout its value chain, so that all collaborating companies assume the commitment to act ethically and responsibly. Among others, it refers to respect for employees’ and union agreement rights, refraining from using child labour, rejecting all kinds of forced labour, prohibit any type of discrimination, comply with occupational hazard prevention legislation, assure employee safety during working hours and prohibit STRUCTURE TECHNICAL any conduct that entails corruption, blackmail or extortion. SERVICES SERVICES1 OTHERS 0.78% What’s more, they are asked to declare that they will respect environmental regulations and promote the efficient use of limited natural resources. 6.13% 13.33% (1) Technical services mainly cover technical connection services, while structure services are mainly composed of suppliers of office supplies, consumptions, courier services, telephony, travel and accommodation, catering and supplies. In 2019, the main expenditure was on the production of audio-visual content and advertising, core areas of the business. In addition, during the year, the Group’s main company (Mediaset España), which accounts for more than 90% of the expenses in procurements and external services expenses, worked with more than 1,200 different suppliers. ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 55 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT Geographical distribution of spending on suppliers SPAIN UNITED KINGDOM SWITZERLAND USA IRLAND ITALY 92.5% 3.60% 1.79% 0.51% 0.48% 0.48% FRANCE NETHERLANDS BELGIUM 0.20% 0.15% 0.09% GERMANY COLOMBIA MEXICO ISRAEL 0.04% 0.04% 0.03% 0.03% Audio-visual Rights Investmentes Technical investments IN SPAIN OUTSIDE SPAIN IN SPAIN OUTSIDE SPAIN 49.12% 50.88% 93.35% 6.65% ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 56 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT MANAGEMENT OF ASSOCIATED PRODUCTION COMPANIES The Mediaset Group’s associated production companies are a crucial link in its supply chain and, therefore, the responsible management of its business constitutes a relevant issue for the Group. ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 57 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT The associated production companies take into account the following relevant issues in their management: FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION Is an essential value, with no INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY restrictions other than those RIGHTS legally stated to protect the They are guaranteed in contracts privacy, honour and image of for the provision of services with third parties. PLURALISM AND authors, artists, performers, DIVERSITY, NONpresenters, collaborators and other EDITORIAL DISCRIMINATION participants in a production. INDEPENDENCE The profile of programmes is very Is guaranteed by giving the diverse, but respect for pluralism and Programme Director complete diversity of opinion is maintained in all of autonomy and discretion to them. decide on the programme In current affairs programmes, the variety editorial content. of sources consulted and the accuracy of the news is valued, as for entertainment programmes or magazines, diversity on the guest panel are valued, and in fiction, these concepts are included through the narrative of scripts. PERSONAL DATA PROTECTION The necessary technical and OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH organisational systems have AND SAFETY been implemented to guarantee the security of personal data The personnel take courses RIGHT TO PRIVACY AND and compliance with current related to the activity carried out, HONOUR legislation. EMPLOYMENT such as fire emergency plans, Programme collaborators and/or STABILITY office and security training. participants are contractually obliges Despite the temporary nature not to infringe third parties’ rights of the activity, the production to privacy or honour, assuming companies try to hire workers responsibility if any of these rights who have collaborated in are violated. previous projects, provided that the required profiles are appropriate. ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 58 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT MANAGEMENT OF ENERGY RESOURCES AND WASTE FRINGE BENEFITS Managed under Mediaset España’s OR WORK LIFE BALANCE management system, as it is located in its MEASURES FRINGE BENEFITS Madrid facilities. MANAGEMENT OF ENERGY RESOURCES OR WORK LIFE BALANCE Restaurant vouchers. AND WASTE MEASURES Recordings are made with reusable digital Life insurance. media. Training courses. Managed under Mediaset España’s Restaurant vouchers. Flexible remuneration (Nursery management system, as it is located at its Life insurance. and health insurance ). Madrid facilities. Training courses. Flexible remuneration (Nursery Recordings are made with reusable digital and health insurance ). media. OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY Training on data visualisation screens has been provided to new employees Workforce data Average Workforce 114.42 81.25 Average Workforce 40.58 30.05 Workforce at the end of the year 117 84 Workforce at the end of the year 47 24 Workforce’s average length of service (years) 1.99 3.08 Workforce’s average length of service (years) 3.76 4.56 Volume of indefinite employees, in total workforce 71% 65% Volume of indefinite employees, in total workforce 59% 32% Temporary contracts converted to indefinite in 2019 Temporary contracts converted to indefinite in 2019 Workers with disability 0 1 Workers with disability 1 0 Average age of the workforce (years) 33.86 33.76 Average age of the workforce (years) 38.09 40.18 Volume of part-time employees 2% 9% Volume of part-time employees 6% 4% The workforce is covered by the Madrid’s Regional Collective Agreement for Office Workers The workforce is covered by the Collective Agreement of the Audio-visual production industry. Note: Megamedia and Supersport’s workforce data are included as part of the workforce information provided in the section WORKFORCE VALUE. ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 59 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT MANAGEMENT OF ENERGY MANAGEMENT OF ENERGY RESOURCES AND WASTE RESOURCES AND WASTE l Automated climate control systems in the Automated lights and air conditioning offices. control systems in the offices.. l Selective collection and recycling Selective collection and recycling of plastic, of plastic and paper. paper and toner. FRINGE BENEFITS l Recordings are made with digital media, FRINGE BENEFITS OR Recordings are made with digital media, OR WORK LIFE BALANCE which can be reused once the content WORK LIFE BALANCE which can be reused once the content MEASURES has been digitalised. MEASURES has been digitalised. l Restaurant vouchers and cards. Restaurant vouchers. l Flexible hours. Flexible hours. l Training Courses. Life insurance. Continuous Training courses. audit and DATA PROTECTION It has a Data training It has a Data Training for all the Protection agreement with Protection administrative staff. Representative to ensure an external Representative to ensure Informative speeches compliance with the consultant compliance with the to directors and regulations. regulations. producers. Average Workforce 153 158 Average Workforce 119.46 151.18 Workforce 147 148 Workforce 129 174 Workforce’s average length of service (years) 5.44 5.55 Workforce’s average length of service (years) 1.04 1.45 Volume of indefinite employees, in total workforce 38% 38% Volume of indefinite employees, in total workforce 5.7 8.3 Temporary contracts converted to indefinite in 2019 20% 20% Temporary contracts converted to indefinite in 2019 1% 1% Employees with disability 5 2 Employees with disability 0 2 Average age of the workforce (years) 34 32 Average age of the workforce (years) Volume of part-time employees 4% 4% Volume of part-time employees 0 0 The entire workforce is covered by the II Collective Agreement of the Audio-visual producThe entire workforce is covered by the II Collective Agreement of the Audio-visual production industry. (Technicians). tion industry. (Technicians) ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 60 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT MANAGEMENT OF ENERGY RESOURCES AND WASTE FRINGE BENEFITS l Automated climate control systems in the OR WORK LIFE offices.. BALANCE MEASURES MANAGEMENT OF ENERGY l Restaurant vouchers. l LED lighting. RESOURCES AND WASTE l Flexibible hours. l Training and retraining courses. l Selective collection of plastic and papers. l LED lighting and energy efficient lightbulbs l Paid leave beyond the requirements set by law. l Paper, cardboard, toner and batteries recycling. l Selective collection of plastic and papers l Bus service for employees. FRINGE BENEFITS OR l Recordings are made with digital media, WORK LIFE BALANCE l Recordings are made with digital media which can be reused once the content has MEASURES been digitalised. l Flexible hours l Restaurant vouchers. l Training courses It has a Data Protection Representative to ensure compliance with the regulations. Average Workforce 70.44 81.46 Average Workforce 53.5 40.4 Workforce 23 42 Workforce 83 65 Workforce’s average length of service (years) 2.55 2.21 Workforce’s average length of service (years) 1.5 1.15 Volume of indefinite employees, in total workforce 35.38% 64.61% Volume of indefinite employees, in total workforce 2.14 1.21 Temporary contracts converted to indefinite in 2019 9 1 Temporary contracts converted to indefinite in 2019 3% Employees with disability 1 0 Employees with disability Average age of the workforce (years) 42.20 40.32 Average age of the workforce (years) 38 34 Volume of part-time employees 0 1 Volume of part-time employees 0 0 The entire workforce is covered by the II Collective Agreement of the Audio-visual producThe entire workforce is covered by the II Collective Agreement of the Audio-visual production industry. (Technicians) tion industry. (Technicians) ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 61 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT MANAGEMENT OF ENERGY RESOURCES AND WASTE l Automated climate control systems in the offices l Progressive incorporation of LED lighting l Toner recycling. l Paper recycling. l Delivery to recycling point of computer components, telephones and video players. l The recordings are made with digital media, MANAGEMENT OF ENERGY which are reused once the contents has RESOURCES AND WASTE been digitalised. l Paper and cardboard recycing FRINGE BENEFITS OR WORK LIFE BALANCE MEASURES l Restaurant vouchers for all staff and agreements with restaurants for discounts Course on on the price of set menus. The Code of Ethics governs journalistic activity and establishes that presenters, occupational health l Flexibible hours. and safety provided collaborators, the team of directors l Flexible hours and functions and and editors must carry out their work in to all employees activities are adjusted to the needs of compliance with the principles of veracity, objectiveness and independence of the pregnant employees. information transmitted, as well as the l Bus service for employees. principles of freedom of expression and information, professional secrecy and non-discrimination when generating content. Average Workforce 38.78 28.66 Average Workforce 23.5 14 Workforce 33 21 Workforce 37 32 Workforce’s average length of service (years) 7.02 7.98 Workforce’s average length of service (years) 1.5 1.5 Volume of indefinite employees, in total workforce 23% 15% Volume of indefinite employees, in total workforce 59.45% 53.12% Temporary contracts converted to indefinite in 2019 1.92 0 Temporary contracts converted to indefinite in 2019 5.4% 3.125% Employees with disability 0 0 Employees with disability 0 0 Average age of the workforce (years) 42.04 37.98 Average age of the workforce (years) Volume of part-time employees 0.19% 0 Volume of part-time employees 0 0 The entire workforce is covered by a Collective Agreement: the II Collective Agreement of the AuThe entire workforce is covered by the II Collective Agreement of the Audio-visual production dio-visual production industry (Technicians), or the State Collective Agreement on labour relations between industry. (Technicians) audio-visual works’ producers and the actors’ who appear in them. ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 62 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT MANAGEMENT OF ENERGY RESOURCES AND WASTE l Paper, cardboard, toner and battery recycling. l Selective collection of plastic and paper waste l Recordings are made with digital media, which can be reused once the content has been digitalised. FRINGE BENEFITS OR WORK LIFE BALANCE MEASURES l Flexibible hours. l Training and recycling courses. Average Workforce 31.83 5.34 Workforce 43 5 Workforce’s average length of service (years) 1.5 1.5 Volume of indefinite employees, in total workforce 60% 100% Temporary contracts converted to indefinite in 2019 0 0 Employees with disability 0 0 Average age of the workforce (years) 28 31 Volume of part-time employees 16% 0% The workforce is covered by the Collective Agreement of Daily Press (Prensa diaria). Note: El Desmarque’s workforce data are included as part of the workforce information provided in the section WORKFORCE VALUE. ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 63 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT CORPORATE COMMUNICATION MANAGEMENT The Communications and External Relations Management, represented by the Communication sub-directorate, is responsible for being the Group’s official voice, reporting on its main activities and business lines before the media and other agents of the sector, for the promotion and broadcast of Accuracy of Ethical opinions information the company’s values and leadership, as well as safeguarding the corporate reputation. European Journalism Deontological Code In turn, the Corporate Image sub-directorate takes care of the Group’s brand identity, promotes the image development of its new business lines, designs and plans external advertising campaigns to promote institutional content and initiatives, coordinates corporate events and handles the development European of 12 Meses’ social communication campaigns. Journalism Deontological Code Deontological Code of the Federation of MANAGEMENT Association of Journalists FRAMEWORK Directors of Communication’s Code of Ethics Respect for the ideological and publishing guidance of the owners of various Transparency media echoing the numerous news articles generated by the Group ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 64 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT Corporate Communication Management Mechanisms 4 2 Daily monitoring of social networks with daily Participation Production of 3 reports on the most prominent Meetings with of the quantitative and media mentions, opinion leaders, the CEO to address Communications qualitative reports on influencers, mentions of the brands global and specific department the news generated and by the company’s brand advocates, communication management in published in the media and reports issued by Mediaset strategies. the Management (Spanish, international España and its competitors on the 1 Committees and social networks) optimisation of communication with social network users 5 7 6 Meetings with the Regular meetings with the social network Regular and ad Content Department teams to create the Regular meetings with 8 team for Mediaset España hoc meetings with communication plans for the the General Financial and Megamedia programmes, the General Corporate programmes, series and their Management and series and channels, as well as Management to analyse respective and associated digital the Stakeholders and with production companies and the company’s activities content as well as for the film the Investor Relations third parties, for the contents in the areas of Law, subsidiary Telecinco Cinema, Management to analyse communication strategy of the Corporate Governance following the criteria provided by the the evolution of the stock corporate social networks hosted and Corporate Social Editorial Board of Mediaset España market and the joint public under “@Mediasetcom” Responsibility and in accordance with the communication with the company’s ethical code when media, analysts and executing the plans. investors 10 9 Permanent 11 communication with Meetings with the Mediterráneo Mediaset Publiespaña’s Marketing España Group’s managers for Participation and Commercial Strategy the development of promotional and promotion of Managers, to analyse and materials related to the fiction “Mediaset España’s” direct the communication and entertainment contents of model in professional of the actions aimed at the the Group and for the creation of forums advertising exploitation of the communication strategies our audio-visual business. derived from its evolution and business development. ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 65 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT Corporate accounts on social networks are channels of communication that allow the company to listen, to know, to inform, to communicate, to interact and to promote news immediately. The interaction of users with corporate accounts gives Mediaset España valuable knowledge of its target followers and the possibility of having immediate feedback regarding their tastes and preferences, and to respond to their concerns or requirements and develop ad hoc communication and marketing strategies. With the main objective of providing Mediaset España with Concept development, intangible value through the combination of the brand Safeguarding the design and production of Designing and creating of image with its corporate identity, the Corporate Image company’s brand and visual identity elements new institutional brands ensuring its responsible use for both channels and Department develops the corresponding communication institutional products and marketing strategies aimed at: Designing and planning of external Designing, producing and Managing the 12 Meses advertising campaigns to The conceptualisation, coordinating institutional social networks, the promote the content of the design and production events in collaboration contents of www.12meses.es channels and institutional of the 12 Meses social with different areas of the and the audio-visual content messages of Mediaset communication campaigns company of Mitele’s Docusocial España as well as new channel products ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 66 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT SHAREHOLDER AND INVESTOR RELATIONS MANAGEMENT Mediaset España’s Investor Relations Management and the Shareholder Office play an important role in maintaining a smooth relationship with institutional and individual investors while they also facilitate continuous communication with analysts and the main players in the financial markets. With a view to disclosing corporate information without causing distortion or asymmetry between shareholders or potential investors, Mediaset España follows the criteria established for listed companies by the regulator, which in this field is the the National Stock Market Commission (CNMV), the Group’s Code of Ethics and the best practices in terms of communication and relations with investors. Quarterly reports on the results submitted to the CNMV, published on its corporate web site Live broadcast of results presentations via conference calls Notify the CNMV of those and web casts, allowing interest relevant aspects that have groups to interact and ask any affected the market price questions they may consider relevant. and that the shareholder or Information sent via e-mail These presentations are recorded and investor needs to know. Quarterly reports published to every investor and/or are available via Mediaset España’s in Spanish and English on its analyst that has requested website until the next one is corporate web site it. broadcast. Holding conferences, roadshows and meetings with the investors ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 67 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT PUBLIC INSTITUTIONS RELATION Main areas of activity Application MANAGEMENT of the General Application of antiAudio-visual trust regulations in the Communication company’s activity Law in the company and participation in its regulatory development. The Institutional Relations Management is responsible for promoting and ensuring Mediaset España’s legitimate interests before the Public authorities and particularly, before the legislative and executive powers, at a Spanish and European level, acting in accordance with the provisions of the company’s Code of Ethics. Application of gambling  Application of a new regulations to “age rating system for the TV contests. audio-visual products”. INVOLVEMENT IN MAJOR ASSOCIATIONS  Defense of OF THE SECTOR a transparent, rational public television l Association of Commercial Television in Europe system, with a true (ACT) public service approach in l Self-regulation Committee and Joint Monitoring its contents, subject to real Committee on television content and children control mechanisms, and in l Association responsible for the self-regulation of strict compliance with the prevailing regulations, Commercial Communication (AUTOCONTROL) especially in advertising. Participation in the process of transposition of the European Directive  Defence of a transparent on Audio-visual and equitable system for the Communication Services Contribution to the Contribution to the management of intellectual (Directive (EU) 2018/1808 evolution of cinema financing of public television property, calling for greater of 14 November 2018) transparency and control of Intellectual into National Law. Mediaset España annually Mediaset España, as a free to property rights management entities, contributes 5% of its income air television operator, annually as well as the application of fair to the financing of European contributes to the financing of the and proportionate fees based on the films and series and reserves RTVE Corporation effective use of the repertoire they more than half of its annual represent. broadcasting time to European works For more information On the contribution to RTVE, see the “Tax Transparency” section of this document. ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 68 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT ALLIANCES FOR SUSTAINABILITY Since 2007, Mediaset España maintains its commitment to support the United Nations Global Compact (UN Global Compact), an international initiative proposed by the United Nations with the aim of obtaining companies voluntary commitment to corporate social responsibility by implementing Ten Principles based on human, Since 2009, Mediaset España has participated in the Carbon Disclosure Project analysis process employment and environmental rights and to combat corruption. (hereinafter, CDP), by responding to the question form on the Climate Change. The initiative was launched in 2000 by the United Nations and keeps the world’s main database of primary and Since 2017, Mediaset España is part of the international partnership Responsible Media Forum business information on climate change, with the purpose of providing solutions for climate composed of the main media companies, the objective of which is to identify and promote change by disclosing information significant to business, policies and investment decisions. actions regarding the social and environmental challenges facing the sector. Since 2012, Mediaset España follows the principles and guidelines established in the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) for the development of Since 2008 Mediaset España has taken part in the FTSE4Good Ibex. This Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. index reflects levels of environmental, human rights and employment policy management, as well as compliance with certain standards relating to supply chain working conditions, rejection of corruption, among others. Since 2012, Mediaset España has been part of the Spanish Broadcasters Association, whose purpose is the promotion of measures which strengthen legal certainty in all matters concerning the issuing of traded securities; the improvement of the legal framework and the development of high corporate governance standards; the improvement of communication Since 2016 Mediaset España has been a member of the Forética’s Climate between companies and their shareholders and the promotion of dialogue Change Cluster, a business meeting point in leadership, knowledge, and cooperation with the public authorities and in particular with the exchange and dialogue on climate change, coordinated by Forética, as National Securities Market Commission (CNMV). Spain’s representative in the World Business Council for Sustainable Development. Mediaset España is member of the European Trade Association for marketers of advertising solutions across (multiple) screens and/or audio platforms, with the aim of helping its members protect, grow and diversify their business around content edited and broadcast on a linear basis by Mediaset España has been a member Forética’s Transparency, Good Governance and their TV channels and/or radio stations. Integrity Cluster since 2016, it is a business meeting point for leadership, knowledge, exchange and dialogue in this field, with a special focus on the value of transparency and good governance in companies and their impact on the market. Mediaset España is member of Fundación Seres, an organisation that promotes companies commitments to improve society through actions aligned with the company’s strategy that generate value for both, the society and the company. Since 2018, Mediaset España has participated in the Investors Laboratory, a space for analysis and promotion of socially responsible investment. Other collaborations MEDIASET ESPAÑA 2019 ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 70 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT OHTER PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Economic TOTAL NET REVENUE READJUSTED EBITDA ADJUSTED EBITDA / NET PROFIT/REVENUE (%) NET FINANCIAL POSITION dimension (€ MILLONES) (€ MILLION) NET REVENUE (%) (€ MILLION) 946 2018: 982 22.5 2018: 20.4 284 2018: 274 30 2018: 27.9 (30.2) 2017: 996 2017: 24.6 2017: 262.2 2017: 26.3 2018: 167.8 2017: 135.3 ORIGIN-BASED TAX PAID GOVERNMENT FINANCIAL ASNUMBER OF AVERAGE UNIQUE USERS PER MONTH (MI(€ MILLION) SISTANCE (€ THOUSAND)1 ADVERTISERS2 LLION)3 56.85 2018: 65.28 76 2018: 350 833 16.13 2017: 600 2018: 860 2018: 11.74 2017: 50 2017: 905 2017: 11.46 VIDEOS VIEWD (BILLON) AVERAGE UNIQUE WEB USERS4 4.8 Unique users MEDIASET TELECINCO.ES CUATRO.COM DIVINITY.ES MITELE MTMAD UPPERS YASS El Tiempo Hoy NIUS Eldesmarque Monthly Average 2017 11,457,398 7,711,909 3,634,648 1,758,592 2,465,661 Monthly Average 2018 11,736,198 7,633,391 3,267,061 1,879,279 2,529,542 600,999 Monthly Average 2019 16,130,397 8,731,314 4,140,861 2,427,624 2,483,131 807,815 298,550 289,689 281,405 686,606 3,317,529 1. It relates to the bonuses for the continuous training plans of the Tripartite Foundation. 2. Only advertisers with investment in all Mediaset España’s channels have been taken into account. Internal source. 3. Source: Data according to MMX Comscore multiplatform. 4. Average unique web users ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 71 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT OTHER PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Social COMUNITY ASSIGNMENT OF HOURS OF TRAINING Dimension DONATIONS ADVERTISING PER EMPLOYEE (€ THOUSAND) SLOTS SUPPORTING 10.85 SOCIAL CAUSES (€ 183 THOUSAND)1 7,537 2018: 75 2017: 107 2018: 13.76 2017: 15.5 2018: 9,535 2017: 13,341 INVESTMENT IN HOURS OF SKILLS HOURS OF TRAINING TRAINING TRANSVERSAL (€ THOUSAND) ACTIVITIES TRAINING ACTIVITIES 266 4,305 7,294 2018: 328 2017: 149 (1) Since the approval of the Sustainable Economy Law in 2011, all NGO advertising is no longer taken into account. ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 72 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT OTROS INDICADORES DE DESEMPEÑO Environmental Dimension ENVIRONMENTAL PAPER PRINTER TONER BATTERY DISCS/TAPES INVESTMENTS (€ CONSUMPTION AND CARTRIDGE CONSUMPTION (KG) CONSUMPTION (KG) THOUSAND)1 (KG) CONSUMPTION (KG) 106 2018: 225 19,609 2018: 20,175 504.38 762 2018: 1.251 2018: 1,705 2017: 2,247 989 2018: 157 2017: 1,734 2017: 359 2017: 17,567 2017: 1.121 WASTE GENERATED WATER CONSUMPTION ELECTRICITY DIESEL CONSUMPTION NATURAL GAS (TN) (M3) CONSUMPTION (GJ) (GJ)2 CONSUMPTION (GJ) 514 2018: 431 28,723 2018: 25,327 61,319 2018: 59,133 1,251 2018: 1,429 5,311 2018: 5,674 2017: 458 2017: 28,662 2017: 63,919 2017: 76 2017: 4,638 GREENHOUSE GAS GREENHOUSE GAS GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS (TN) EMISSIONS (TN) EMISSIONS (TN) SCOPE 1 SCOPE 2 SCOPE 3 525.2 2018: 521.18 0 2018: 0 97,875 2017: 161,893 (1) Corresponds to investments made in improving energy savings and efficiency. (2) As of 2018, an estimate of the fuel used by company vehicles is included. 2017: 1,278 2017: 0 2017: 182,955 ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 73 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT EVOLUTION OF THE BUSINESS Since its creation in 2010, Mediaset España has been the With the aim of further expanding these new business lines most watched audio-visual group in linear and digital media. and exploring new scenarios for the present and future of the Total day 29% Mediaset España Nine years of undisputed and uninterrupted leadership with audio-visual sector through its production model, Mediaset Audience a unique and targeted content offer on its thematic and España has in turn promoted an ambitious digitalisation plan generalist free-to-air television channels, including once during 2019, not only adapting content creation processes, again Telecinco as the most watched commercial channel but also investing resources and efforts in the creation of tools for the twentieth consecutive year and Mitele as the leading linked to statistics and big data, which are key to knowing the television content platform for digital consumption. The audience even better and thus offering even more qualitative company has offered the most watched entertainment, commercial possibilities to its advertisers. fiction and news on TV, with leadership among young people and has supplied the videos with the greatest demand and MEDIASET ESPAÑA, LEADER IN LINEAR engagement on Internet. AUDIENCE In 2019, Mediaset España has added to its business lines, With 29%, Mediaset España has reaffirmed its historical beginning its journey in the business of distributing leadership in terms of linear audience in 2019 with the Young paid contents with the launch of Mitele PLUS in Spain, a absolute victory for the ninth consecutive year. Its range of audience subscription platform that allows users to enjoy the entire channels, including Telecinco, Cuatro, Factoría de Ficción, (13-24 years old) 33.5% Mitele offer without interruptions, including an exclusive Divinity, Energy, Be Mad and Boing, has made it the leading football package, and to which new products and exclusive multi-channel offer for all total day and also for prime time contents are being progressively added. (28.4%) and daytime (29.2%). At the same time, the company has strengthened its brand Its targeted and complementary offer for all types of in the distribution, sale and production of content to third audiences has allowed it to once again become a reference parties with Mediterráneo a company that groups together for the commercial target (30.7%), confirming itself as the its network of investee production companies specialised preferred group of channels for 13-24 year olds (33.5%). in entertainment and fiction, sports and digital multimedia formats, as well as its international channel, CincoMAS and its film production company Telecinco Cinema whose films, series and formats are present in more than 190 territories Target around the world. comercial 30.7% ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 74 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT CONECTION TO THE AUDIENCE, RIGOR AND REFERENCE IN MAJOR PRIME TIME TELECINCO, LEADING COMMERCIAL OBJECTIVITY, THE KEYS TO INFORMATIVOS TELEVISION IN SPAIN FOR 20 YEARS ENTERTAINMENT FORMATS TELECINCO’S LEADERSHIP Telecinco has made history in 2019, crowning two decades Telecinco has led the way with its entertainment, fiction and of undisputed leadership in commercial television in our Telecinco has been a reference for news for seven consecutive cinema offer, genres where the most watched products of the country with figures that have led it to achieve a historic lead years with Pedro Piqueras’ broadcast (16.7% and 2,380,000) year can be found, and its formats have topped the ranking of over its immediate competitor in the latter part of the year. as the most watched of all TV channels. It has established the most watched broadcasts in 2019. With an average of 14.8%, 7 tenths more than in 2018, the a 2.9 point advantage over its national competitor (13.8% and channel has closed one of its best years accumulating eight 1,907,000) and a 5.5 point advantage over national public ‘Supervivientes: perdidos en Honduras’ (33.7% and 3,511,000) absolute victories among all TV channels. television news (11.2% and 1,623,000). The midday edition from has recorded its best ever share, becoming the most watched Monday to Friday (14.3% and 1,711,000), with 1.6 points more non-sporting programme and the most competitive There has been a 3.1 point advantage in total day over the than in 2018, has obtained its highest share since 2010. entertainment programme in the last 7 years, with the second choice (11.7%), with solid victories over the latter format’s most competitive final (40.6%) in Spain. Its debut in prime time (14.8% vs. 11.9%), daytime (14.8% vs. 11.7%), In the average calculation of the Monday to Sunday was the best entertainment premiere of the season (36.5%). morning (15.1% vs. 10.7%), afternoon (15.9% vs. 13%) and late broadcasts, Informativos Telecinco (1,923,000 and 14.9%) has ‘Supervivientes: Conexión Honduras’ (23.2% and 2,662,000) night (18.7% vs. 8.7%)-, as well as a clear dominance in the improved 9 tenths with respect to 2018, with its best results has also set a historical record for the format. commercial target (14.1% vs. 11.3%) and a majority following in the last 3 years. In the afternoon, the weekend edition among young people 13-24 years old (12%). (14.3% and 1,669,000) has obtained its best share for more Gran Hermano’ has also been a great success for Telecinco, than a decade; the same as the average for the weekend with an extraordinary following on television and social It has been the most watched channel every month of the editions (13.5% and 1,702,000), which have reached the best networks. Its celebrity edition Gran Hermano VIP (32.5% and year, with a particularly notable lead since the start of the share since 2008. 3,263,000) made history in 2019, achieving the best share current season in September. The channel has been unrivalled since Gran Hermano 3 (2002) and was the second most among both free-to-air and pay-TV channels, where it has watched and competitive entertainment format of the year. also been the most watched channel on both Movistar (10.7%) ‘Gran Hermano VIP: Límite 48 horas’ (3,044,000 and 17.7%) and Vodafone (14.8%), including guests. saw its most watched edition ever and ‘Gran Hermano VIP: El debate’ (22.2% and 2,586,000) recorded its best ever share. ‘Gran Hermano Dúo’ (26.3% and 2,832,000) has been the third most competitive entertainment format of the year, with over 30% of 25-35 year olds, and figures always above 20% in ‘GH Duo: Límite 48 horas’ (22.3% and 2,476,000) and the leadership of ‘Gran Hermano Dúo: el debate’ (17.9% and 2,233,000). Neither ‘Supervivientes’ nor ‘Gran Hermano’ have given the competitors large formats a break, for example ‘Juego de Juegos’ (11.0% and 1,711,000), ‘Masters de la reforma’ (9.6% and 1,070,000), ‘Masterchef’ (14.9% and 1,855,000), its ‘Celebrity’ edition (21.7% and 2,379,000) among other large formats. ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 75 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT Telecinco’s Gran Hermano Duo, Gran Hermano VIP and In the afternoon, the average of all Sálvame editions Supervivientes formats have also occupied the top positions (16.9% and 1,755,000) has become the after lunch leader once of the 10 most searched TV trends on Google in 2019. again, with its best results of the last 3 years and unrivalled in its broadcasting slot. On the weekends, ‘Socialité by ‘Got Talent’ (20.6% and 2,290,000) has also been unrivalled, Cazamariposas’ (13.4% and 1,147,000) led its time slot with smashing its way to the top with its best ever screen share an upward trend throughout the year to grow 2.7 points over and its most watched final (29% and 2,978,000) compared 2018. to its immediate competitor’s major formats such as ‘La Voz’ (18.7% and 2,592,000), ‘La Voz Senior’ (14.5% and 1,978,000) and THE MOST WATCHED FICTION ON ‘La Voz Kids’ (14.3% and 1,852,000). TELECINCO ‘Sabado Deluxe’ completes the successful offer in prime time In terms of fiction, Telecinco has taken over the podium for (17.2% and 1,746,000) with its best share in the last 3 years; the most watched series of the year with ‘La que se avecina’ ‘Volverte a ver’ (13.8% and 1,642,000) is the leader on Fridays, (18.8% and 2,519,000) the comedy with the highest audience, ‘Mi casa es la tuya’ (15.1% and 1,915). 000) increasing by almost fan phenomenon, commercial target (22.5%) and it also has 3 points this year and ‘Ven a cenar conmigo: Gourmet a following among young audiences, with an extraordinary Edition’ (14.4% and 1,699,000) is the most watched format 34.3% in young people. in summer prime time and the second most competitive programme of the summer period. Furthermore, through new productions, some of which have been released and others are in the filming and postTELECINCO’S IN-HOUSE PRODUCTION production phase, the company has worked on numerous CONQUERS DAY TIME projects that have covered a wide range of genres this year. In day time, the closeness that Telecinco’s programming Among the premieres, ‘Señoras del (h)AMPA’ (20.9% and model offers, based on live shows, has once again connected 2,996,000) stood out as the most watched national debut with the public, who have been loyal to ‘El programa de Ana of the year on Telecinco after being renewed for a second Rosa’ (19.7% and 642,000), the leading magazine show, for the season even before its debut on the channel. The series (11.4% 15th consecutive year with its best share of the last 4 years and and 1,345,000), a combination of black comedy, action and the largest gap with ‘Espejo Público’ (13%) since 2007, and it intrigue, with large doses of tradition, tells a story in which is also the day time programme with the best commercial four women from different walks of life see their destinies target (20.3%) . irremediably linked after an accidental death that they try to hide, generating a delirious spiral of criminal acts. It has In 2019, the ‘Ya es mediodía’ programme (12.8% and 1,113,000) garnered excellent reviews and the interest and applause of presented by Sonsoles Ónega took the baton, celebrating the international market, even being awarded the MIPDrama its first year with an upward trend that has improved by 2.6 Buyers Coup de Coeur Award after being chosen as a favorite points compared to 2018. by 450 television industry professionals who have participated in the MIPDrama Buyers Summit. ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 76 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT The channel has also released ‘Brigada Costa del Sol’ (10.2% and 1,349,000) this year, a classic police series inspired by real events, set at the dawn of Spanish democracy, when a group of police inspectors were assigned to Torremolinos to form the special narcotics brigade on the Costa del Sol and fight drug trafficking. At the same time, the premiere of ‘Secretos de Estado’ (10.4% and 1,493,000) took place, a political thriller that reveals the ins and outs of power after an attempted assassination and where ambition, revenge, passion and political intrigue all coexisted on Telecinco ■ ‘El Pueblo’, A comedy ■ ‘Madres. Amor y vida’, a ■ ‘Desaparecidos’, police ■ ‘Caronte’, A legal-police ■ Lejos de ti’, A romantic throughout its first season. that humorously deals series that explores the drama focused on fiction that tells the story comedy that humorously with the adventures of a female universe in the solving cases of people of an ex-cop who had tackles the sentimental In mini-series, ‘Los Nuestros’ 2’ group of characters who day to day of a maternity who dissappeared off the been unfairly convicted upheaval caused (10% and 1,333,000), returned to answer an advertisement and children’s hospital face of the earth. and leaves prison to when a couple starts a Telecinco in 2019 with a second promising a house and a especially through the become a lawyer with relationship through the installment in which an elite unit new life away from the eyes of patients and the f irm intention of story of its protagonists: of the Spanish Army’s Parachute noise of the world in an relatives who, together investigating the events Candela, a young Brigade in collaboration with the abandoned village in with the medical staff, that led to his conviction woman f rom Seville, National Intelligence Centre (CNI) Soria. The first season has share the Pediatrics and eight years ago in order and Massimo, a Roman faced the challenge of taking a already been premiered Maternity areas. to find the justice that beauty, two people radioactive charge from the Islamic on Amazon Prime he did not have then. His with totally opposite State that it planned to blow up in Video, and the second experience as a police characters set at different Europe. season has already been officer, his time in prison locations in Seville, Rome recorded. and his new career as a and Prague. Alongside these, Mediaset España lawyer means he has a launched other f ictions in 2019, clear objective: to stand such as: by those who have everything to lose. We are invited to reflect on justice, the presumption of innocence and how the path to truth is sometimes very winding. ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 77 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT In 2019, Telecinco has recorded the new episodes of its star MEDIASET ESPAÑA, A REFERENCE FOR CUATRO, THE CHANNEL THAT BEST comedy ‘La que se avecina’, which has proved to be successful SPORT ON FREE-TO-AIR TV CONVERTS ITS AUDIENCE INTO COMMERCIAL for over a decade on air, as well as the second season of ‘Vivir TARGET (6,4%) sin permiso’, the most watched Spanish fiction of 2018 Mediaset España has once again become a reference for free produced in collaboration with Alea Media, which unravels to air TV sports events, broadcasting of the most important Cuatro ended the year as the third favourite private channel for the many unanswered questions surrounding drug trafficker event of the year, the Basketball World Cup, offered in young people aged 16-34 years old (6.6%) and 13-24 years old Nemo Bandeira and his fight against Alzheimer’s, his most its entirety on its linear and digital media, as well as the (6.7%), data above its average for total day (5.3%). Once again, it ruthless enemy. European Under-21 Football Championship with an average was the channel with the best conversion rate to a commercial of 22% and 2,787,000 viewers, various friendly matches of target, reaching 6.4% in total day and 7% in prime time. THE MOST WATCHED CINEMA, the Spanish National Team (4.8%), qualifying matches for ONTELECINCO the next UEFA Euro 2020 and the next European Under-21 Cuatro has confirmed the success of Mediaset España’s Championship (5.3%) and the Moto GP races in Argentina transversal programming, placing ‘Gran Hermano VIP: Límite The channel’s success has also extended to its choice of film (12.9%) and Valencia (10.6%). 48 horas’ (26.3% and 2,699,000) and ‘Supervivientes’: Tierra titles with the premiere of ‘Beauty and the Beast’ (3,168,000 de nadie’ (22.3% and 2,452,000) as the most competitive and 21.3%), ‘Perfectos Desconocidos’ (3,157,000 and 20.7%) Along with this offer, Mediaset España has made a programmes in the channel’s history. and ‘Jumanji’ (2,783,000 and 19.4%) as the most viewed commitment to women’s sport on f ree to air TV, by films of the year among commercial channels. broadcasting the Spanish Women’s Football Team’s friendly This year Cuatro has increased its in-house production in the matches and, for the first time in the history of television in afternoon slots, replacing external fiction products with new spaces our country, dedicating Telecinco’s prime time to the live of diverse genre such as the current affairs programme ‘Cuatro al día’ broadcast of the Queen’s Cup final (14.8% and 1,655,000), (3% and 282,000), the satirical news programme ‘Todo es mentira’ which has become the most watched women’s football match (3.9% and 446,000), ‘El concurso del año’ (5.7% and 462,000%) with to date, thus confirming the success of this commitment to 10.1% in young viewers and ‘El Bribón’ (2.3% and 253,000). the sport. JIn addition to these, in-house production formats have A special mention should be made for the Spanish National excelled, and with their commitment to the search for Team’s victory in the World Basketball Championship in innovative proposals and original developments, the channel China, broadcast on Cuatro, an epic victory in a final against has made its mark on the world of factual reports, docushows, Argentina (46.5% and 6,168,000), which has become the dating, reports and research. most watched basketball game in the history of television in our country and the most watched broadcast of the year on Proof of this can be seen in the data obtained by ‘Adivina commercial channels in its linear and digital formats, with qué hago esta noche’ (7.7% and 1,016,000) with 9.8% of 251,000 unique browsers and 1.2 million videos viewed, young audiences; ‘Volando voy’ ((6.8% and 1,203,000) with its making it the most watched broadcast in the history of live third best season in terms of viewers and 7.7% in commercial broadcasts on Cuatro. The Basketball World Cup reached target; ‘Los Gipsy Kings’ (7.4% and 1. 059,000) with 9.9% in a total coverage of almost 20 million viewers and a huge commercial target; ‘Chester’ (7.2% and 1,348,000) with 9.1% in demand for live online viewing with 1,082,000 unique commercial target; ‘Ven a cenar conmigo: gourmet edition’ browsers and 4 million videos viewed. (5.8% and 770,000) with 7% in commercial target and ‘Monica and sex’ (5.3% and 356,000). In access prime time, ‘First dates’ (6.8% and 1,106,000) scored 7.7% in commercial target, while in late night ‘Cuarto Milenio’ was unrivalled in its Sunday night slot (7.3% and 758,000) with 9.4% in commercial target, while in day time, ‘Mujeres y hombres y viceversa’ (4.8% and 233,000) was the first choice in its slot for viewers aged 13 to 24 (16.4%). ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 78 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT MEDIASET ESPAÑA’S THEMATIC THE INTERNATIONAL CHANNEL CINCOMAS CHANNELS, LEADERS FOR THE SEVENTH CONSOLIDATES ITS PRESENCE IN LATIN YEAR AMERICA WITH A TOTAL OF 15 COUNTRIES Mediaset España also closed 2019 with the most watched Once again, Mediaset España has maintained its commitment thematic channels on free TV, with an average of 8.8% share. to bringing its most successful content to Spanish-speaking viewers on the American continent through CincoMAS, Factoría de Ficción (2.8%), the leading thematic channel its international channel. In 2019 it reached its maximum for the eighth year, was the third most watched commercial expansion, consolidating and reinforcing its presence in a channel by young people aged 13 to 24 years old (7.7%). total of 15 countries, with growth in those countries where it was already available, as in the case of Argentina, Mexico Energy (2.4%), an all-time record, was the second most viewed or Panama, and reaching Bolivia and Uruguay for the first thematic channel of the year, also recording its maximum in time. Furthermore, GEE’s offshore television service platform commercial target, where it increased to 2.9%. continues to grow and now provides the channel’s signal to more than 40,000 cruise ship and ship cabins. Divinity (1.9%) was the leading female thematic channel in commercial target (2.3%), with 3.2% in its core target of In 2019, CincoMAS has incorporated international formats women from 16 to 44 years old. such as ‘Got Talent’, ‘Donde menos te esperas’ and ‘Me quedo contigo’ into its schedule for the first time. It has also continued Boing (10.6% in children) was the leading children’s channel its work to bring the group’s main in-house productions to on commercial television for the seventh consecutive year. audiences in Latin America, with particular emphasis on live broadcasts such as ‘El programa de Ana Rosa’, ‘Sálvame’, ‘Ya Be Mad (0.7% in commercial target) closed its fourth year at es mediodía’, ‘Todo es mentira’ and Informativos Telecinco. 0.5%. In addition to documentary programs such as ‘La vida con Samanta’, ‘En el punto de mira’ or ‘Fuera de Cobertura’ and the series ‘Se quien eres’, ‘Perdoname señor’ and ‘Grupo 2: Homicidios’, among others. On the other hand, CincoMAS has continued its work as an international advocate of social communication initiatives with the 12 Meses social campaigns. ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 79 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT MEDIASET ESPAÑA, LEADING MEDIA EXTRAORDINARY GROWTH ON TELECINCO IN DIGITAL CONSUMPTION WITH A AND CUATRO WEBSITES AND THE MITELE HISTORICAL RECORD OF UNIQUE USERS AND MTMAD PLATFORMS AND VIDEOS VIEWED By platforms and websites, 2019 has been a year of spectacular growth in the consumption of Mitele, Telecinco. 2019 has been a historic year for Mediaset España in terms es, Cuatro.com and Mtmad, in some cases over 90% year-onyear: of digital consumption as well. The company achieved the best result in its history in 2019 after registering an ■ Mitele, Spain’s leading television platform, has once again accumulated annual figure of 4,778 million videos viewed, led digital audio-visual consumption in the group with a placing it as the leading media with a significant gap over its total of 2.6 billion videos viewed, 70% more than in 2018, national competitor (3,070 million videos) and state television almost double that of Atresplayer (1,444 million). (682 million videos), according to data from ComScore’s Videometrix Multiplatform. Furthermore, the company has ■ Telecinco.es has achieved a 90% growth in consumption been placed in third position in the global ranking of video compared to 2018, reaching 926 million videos viewed, consumption, only behind Google y Vevo. almost triple the number recorded by Antena3.com (357 million). These digital consumption results published by ComScore, have been generated by a monthly average of 16.1 million ■ Cuatro.com closed the year with an accumulated 234 unique users throughout the year, a figure that represents a million videos, 92% more than in 2018, surpassing LaSexta. remarkable growth of 37% over 2018’s average. com (207 million). ■ Mtmad has quadrupled its consumption in 2019 reaching 233 million videos, compared to 57 million in 2018. In terms of Internet traffic, it is worth noting the growth registered by Telecinco.es, which has reached 8.7 million unique users per month (14% more), and by Cuatro.com, which has reached 4.1 million unique users per month (27% more), according to data from ComScore’s Mymetrix Multiplatform. ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 80 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT MEDIASET ESPAÑA DIGITAL OFFER MITELE, THE LEADING TV CONTENT GROWS AND BECOMES MORE PLATFORM IN SPAIN SEGMENTED, INITIATING THE DISTRIBUTION OF PAID CONTENT WITH In 2019, Mitele has maintained its leadership among the TV THE LAUNCH OF MITELE PLUS platforms in Spain, ranking once again as the media with the highest digital consumption of the group, with 2,600 million In 2019 Mediaset España started its journey in the business videos viewed, 70% more than in 2018 and a huge difference with of distributing paid content with the launch of Mitele PLUS its main competitor, also achieving the highest daily number of in Spain, a subscription platform that allows users to enjoy unique users. ‘ the entire Mitele offer without interruptions. New products and exclusive content have been progressively incorporated The commitment to user interaction and extended content has into the platform, as well as a second exclusive 24-hour signal taken a further step forward with the incorporation of the ‘Mitele for the programme ‘GH VIP’, the audience attendance at the ON‘ initiative. ‘Supervivientes 2019‘ followers have been able to recording of the 600th programme of Cuarto Milenio on one access exclusive content from the program through the app of Mediaset España’s largest sets, and the meet&greet with for mobile devices: ‘Quiz SV‘, a weekly quiz on the history of the Can Yaman, the star of some Turkish soap operas that have programme presented by Sofía Suescun, with a 200 euro prize become a fan phenomenon. for the winners; 360º videos recorded from Honduras, the before and after of the contestants after their stay on the island and the Mitele PLUS has three exclusive football packages, which binding votes that conditioned their day to day lives in the Cayos include the Mitele PLUS Basic subscription, with all the Mitele Cochinos. content without advertising or interruptions, among other advantages. As well as continuing to expand its catalogue of on-demand content with the incorporation of the new Mediaset España Since its launch last summer, Mitele PLUS has shown an formats, Mitele has been adding new exclusive live channels, upward progression in the number of subscriptions week by such as the 24-hour ‘GH Dúo’ double free-to-air signal or the week, without significant cancellations and with a positive three channels created for the FIBA 2019 Basketball World Cup, user experience, as shown by its customer service statistics, through which users of the platform could follow the entire doubling the forecast estimated by Mediaset España in its competition completely free of charge, including more than 50 business plan for the platform’s launcha. games that were not broadcast on linear TV channels. Mitele PLUS users have the option of logging in on up to five The evolution and development of new apps has been devices at a time, with the ability to watch football content on another key focus of the platform in 2019. The complete up to two devices simultaneously (one in HD and one in SD). remodelling of its Smart TV development has made it possible to reach new TV and STB brands, as well as incorporating all the platform’s live channels. All this meant that in September, Mitele’s Smart TV application set its absolute record in unique users and views. Moreover, the mobile applications for iOS and Android have added the possibility of sending content to the television via Chromecast to its features. ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 81 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT MEDIASET ESPAÑA EXPANDS ITS BRAND the football manager leagues, video games, series, cinema, knowledge of current political and economic affairs, who SAFETY ENVIRONMENT WITH NEW DIGITAL TV and gadgets. are able to explain, translate and provide the most diverse PROPOSALS information in the clearest and fastest way possible, on topics It has direct communication channels with its audience related to politics, the economy, health, the environment, Mediaset España has reinforced this audio-visual leadership through different mobile applications, ElDesmarque Live, energy, mobility, equality, education and consumption, on the web, adding new user profiles to its channels websites with daily and packaged programming and broadcasts society, culture and sport, at a time when the consumption and live and on-demand content platforms through the of all sports events live from the online radio. It also has a of information is increasingly immediate and mobile. purchase and development of new and innovative digital personalised alert service via Whatsapp that allows users to proposals aimed at targeting audiences, thus extending the receive news from their teams digital coverage of its existing and potential customers with UPPERS, THE NEW DIGITAL MEDIA FOR THE the guarantee that it offers brands to be linked to their safe With the acquisition of this sports media, Mediaset España EXPERIENCED GENERATION and controlled brand safety environment. takes another step forward in its commitment to sport, one of the areas in which the company maintains a historical In September, a new digital brand was added to Mediaset To this end, the company has expanded its media portfolio position after offering free-to-air broadcasts of major football España’s offer: Uppers, a new online media from the group with the acquisition of the sports newspaper El Desmarque events such as the 2010, 2014 and 2018 World Cups, the 2012 aimed at satisfying the demand for content and information and the creation of two new titles of its own: Uppers, aimed and 2016 European Championships, the FIFA Confederations from the over-45s, an audience interested in lifestyle, trends, at catering to the demand for content and information from Cup in 2009 and 2013, various European U21s, Copa del Rey motoring, travel, technology, sport, healthy living and the over-45s, and Nius, a digital newspaper aimed at all users matches, the Spanish Super Cup and the new UEFA Nations gastronomy, among other topics, which is highly demanded who want to find out about current events via the Internet League tournament; as well as the 2014 and 2019 FIBA World by advertisers due to its commercial profile. Exclusive topics and social networks. Cup and the 2015 and 2017 Eurobasketball tournaments; and elaborated by its editorial staff, a network of collaborators, the MotoGP and Formula 1 World Cup, among other major a very careful aesthetic and a distinctive presence on social EL DESMARQUE, THE LATEST IN ALL SPORTS sporting events. networks, with genuine character and content being the distinctive elements of www.uppers.es. In 2019, Mediaset España has acquired www.eldesmarque. NIUS, THE GROUP’S FIRST GENERALIST DIGITAL com, one of the most widely followed sports news platforms NEWSPAPER Uppers was created from the current socio-demographic on a national level which, since it was founded in 2006, has situation: the population pyramid is inverted, we are living been committed to multi-disciplinary sports news and, in September also saw the launch of www.niusdiario.es, a digital longer and better. With the older generation, those with particular, to the geographical targeting of information publishing initiative that rigorously and thoroughly covers the experience, the company seeks to complete its portfolio of through the 14 different local editions which it updates in latest news using all the usual consultation channels on the content and offers for brands, while at the same time trying detail on a daily basis. All of them offer all the latest news on Internet, social networks, news search engines, podcasts and to awaken interest in middle-aged users, a target with great local, national and international football, basketball, tennis, voice assistantz. commercial potential due to its high level of consumption, cycling, athletics and motor racing, among other sports, prescription and influence. with a particular focus on those of regional interest and Led by Juan Pedro Valentín, NIUS has an editorial staff made especially in women’s sports. The platform completes its up of professionals with great audio-visual experience, with offer with thematic sites dedicated to e-Sports one of the offices all over Spain, correspondents in all major cities entertainment sectors with the greatest growth potential -, around the world and experienced journalists with extensive ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 82 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT YASSS.ES, WEBSITE DESIGNED FOR Throughout 2019, it has premiered new formats presented by MILLENNIALS AND GENERATION Z emerging talents such as Isa Pantoja (‘Soy como soy’), Omar Montes (‘La vida mártir’), Marta López (‘The real Marta’), Laura Mediaset España’s entertainment and information website Matamoros (‘Inside Laura’), Alejandra Rubio (‘Black Sheep’) aimed at the millennial and centennial audiences, Yasss.es, and Alma Bollo (‘Desde el Alma’), among many others, as well has concluded 2019 by breaking its historical record, with as well-known faces in the world of television and acting, such 912,704 unique browsers in December and 1,340,768 page as Tania Llasera (‘Dando la talla’) and Paula Echevarría (‘Diario views (source: Omniture). de Rodaje’). After two years online, Mediaset España’s teenage website On the other hand, Mtmad has made the most of the has consolidated its position by focusing on the issues extraordinary Internet following of spaces such as Gran that interest its target audience (psychology, relationships, Hermano or Mujeres y hombres y viceversa, devoting part environment, feminism, music, series, technology...), aiming of its channels to show new and personal aspects of the to give voice to those with stories to tell and interviewing characters created witin the environment of both programs, talented young people, but also entertaining its followers and which have millions of followers on their social network with games, tests and memes, and creating community profiles. Such is the case of the daily shows from ‘Llámame through its social networks, with more than 22,000 followers Lola, by Lola Ortiz’, ‘Mad mojo by Noel’, ‘Algo pasa con Oriana’, on Twitter, Instagram and Facebook. ‘Original Aurah’, ‘Ultravioleta’, ‘Verdeliss en L.A.’, ‘Princesa Inca’, ‘Bea y Punto’ and ‘Yoli, te quiero’, among otherss. MTMAD, 2.300 MILLON VIDEOS VIEWED IN 2019 It has also successfully established its innovative ‘Crazy’ label of cross-media formats through adventures such as ‘Crazy Mediaset España’s digital native content broadcasting Trip’ and ‘Crazy Camp’, where a group of former ‘Mujeres platform has finished 2019 with a total of 233 million videos y hombres y viceversa’ contestants have embarked on viewed. trips to Thailand and a campsite in Spain to narrate their adventure and coexistence over a series of weekly episodes In its three years online, Mtmad has created new formats, on Mtmad, with an on air broadcast via a segment dedicated introducing new audio-visual languages into Mediaset to commenting on each of the episodes on the Cuatro España’s digital environment that complement the great programme where they started their TV career and with the universe of characters in the company’s in-house production, respective following on social networks where the charismatic with the launch of innovative and pioneering crossmedia participants have accumulated many followers: Violeta, Fabio, genres in reality vlogs, fiction and live performances. Julen, Albert Pertiguista, Jennifer Baldini y Katty, Barranco, Steisy, Labrador y Oriana. The platform has also ventured into fiction with the premiere of its first web series, ‘Una vida de mierda’, starring ‘El Cejas’, who before his television debut in ‘Got Talent España’ was already a celebrity on the internet. Together with Mtmad, he has taken a new step in front of his legion of fans by starring in this fictional production in which well-known television characters, youtubers and influencers participate with different cameos. ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 83 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT MEDIASET ESPAÑA CONCLUDES THE The complete renovation of the studio equipment along with Pedro Casablanc, Gracia Olayo and Luis Varela, the film has TECHNICAL PLAN FOR THE RENOVATION the definitive replacement of SD technology has involved been very well received by the public and critics. It tells the OF ITS PRODUCTION CENTRE training more than 190 technical professionals belonging to story of three university professors who find the solution to the Technology and Operations Division. their economic problems in a vitamin that offers a huge rush More than 20,000 hours of content are produced each year with no side effects. Selling the pills would immediately get at its facilities, with an average of 18 hours per day offered Furthermore, other technical areas have been adapted, such them out of their crisis, but finding themselves caught up in live, making Mediaset España one of the largest creators of as the 30 editing and post-production rooms, providing them the dangerous world of the night is certainly too much for audio-visual content in the country, with a unique, genuine with the capacity to integrate the most modern intake flows, the three nerds. and unique model with which the company leads audiences editing, archiving and, in general, all processes, as well as the year after year and sets itself up as a benchmark for free-toContingency Broadcast located in the production centre in Five years after his last film, Álvaro Fernández-Armero is air television in all genres, from news and entertainment to Villaviciosa de Odón to ensure business continuity. back behind the scenes in ‘Si yo fuera rico’, a comedy that fiction, film and digital content. premiered last November and which, by the end of 2019, had At the same time, the company has developed an innovative been seen by 2 million viewers, earning over 12 million euros at With the desire to maintain and project the production model remote production and networking system to maximise its the box office. The film stars Álex García, Alexandra Jiménez, in the best conditions from a technical point of view, in 2019 more than 11,000 square metres of set area, opening up a new Adrián Lastra, Diego Martín, Franky Martín and Bárbara Santathe company has completed the first phase of an ambitious universe of operational possibilities. Cruz, with special appearances from Paula Echevarría, Beatriz technical pioneering plan in Spain, which five years after its Rico, Isabel Ordaz, Aritz Aramburu and Antonio Resines. Shot launch has materialised with the complete renovation of TELECINCO CINEMA, MEDIASET ESPAÑA’S in Asturias and Madrid, the film tells the story of a young man its facilities, also including the electrical systems with the CINEMATOGRAPHIC SUBSIDIARY, who wins the lottery when he is in the middle of his divorce, required contingency in its production centres in Madrid, RELEASES TWO COMEDIES AND WORKS and has to do everything possible to hide the multi-million located in Fuencarral and Villaviciosa de Odón. prize from his current wife and his own friends. ON FOUR PRODUCTIONS IN 2019 Thanks to this new infrastructure, the company can produce Mediaset España has also been working hard on its films with a guarantee and security in the renewed High Definition throughout 2019. Through Telecinco Cinema, the company has studios together with the new HD1 Mobile Unit, prepared released the comedies ‘Lo dejo cuando quiera’ and ‘Si yo fuera for the production of large formats enabling it to face the rico’ in cinemas; in January 2020 it completed production on challenges posed by the project of the royal decree on the 2nd the premiere of ‘ADÚ’ and has finished shooting ambitious Digital Dividend and the technological evolution associated projects such as ‘Way Down’, ‘Malnazidos’ and ‘Operación with it in terms of quality and interactivity. Camarón’, which will be released in cinemas during 2020. Among the systems that have been implemented, Mediaset España has carried out a complete renovation of the Sound Almost 2 million viewers have seen ‘Lo dejo cuando quiera’ area, which involved full integration of the sound, microphone since its premiere in April in cinemas all over Spain, with and communication systems, representing a pioneering almost 11.3 million euros in takings. Directed by Carlos Therón operational change in working in a network. This project, and produced by Telecinco Cinema and Mod Producciones designed entirely by the Technology Division, which reports with the participation of Mediaset España and Movistar+, to the General Management and Operations Department, and distributed by Sony Pictures Entertainment Iberia, it was developed with internal resources by company was the most watched film in its first weekend in cinemas professionals, and has led to the creation of a Technical Style and the best Spanish release of the year. Starring David Guide that allows any Mediaset España operator to work on Verdaguer, Ernesto Sevilla, Carlos Santos, Cristina Castaño, any programme format under unified criteria, thus extending Miren Ibarguren and Amaia Salamanca, as well as a special the productivity and efficiency ratio range. appearance from Ernesto Alterio and the participation of ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 84 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT Luis Tosar, Anna Castillo, Álvaro Cervantes and Jesús Carroza The aesthetic and scriptwriting potential of ‘Malnazidos’ has This is a business line that is clearly expanding, and has led also lead the cast of ‘ADÚ’, the latest film from Telecinco led Mediaset España and Sony Interactive Entertainment to deals for the distribution of films and fiction to the main Cinema that tackles the issue of immigration from the reality España, through PlayStation®Talents, to reach an agreement platforms, Netflix, Amazon and HBO, achieving doubleof two worlds separated by a fence. Directed by Salvador to adapt the film into a video game in the shooter genre and digit growth in sales. It has also provided films and fiction Calvo, the film features newcomers Moustapha Oumarou and exclusively for PlayStation®4 users. to national channels such as Viacom, Trece TV and NBC Zayiddiya Disssou, chosen from thousands of children from Universal, and formats to regional channels like Telemadrid the Republic of Benin, an African country where most of the After directing ‘Es por tu bien’, the third highest grossing and the Castilla la Mancha channel. film was shot. Filming also took place in Madrid and Murcia. Spanish film of 2017, and ‘Lo dejo cuando quiera’, the highest The film tells the story of a boy who travels with his sister from grossing film of the year in Spanish cinema, Carlos Therón The high quality level of production of Spanish content and the heart of Africa to Europe, tying it into two other stories: directed ‘Operación Camarón’, a comedy starring Julián the globalisation that characterises the current audio-visual that of a group of civil guards protecting Europe’s southern López, Natalia de Molina, Carlos Librado ‘Nene’ and Miren market mean that stories cross borders at an unstoppable border and that of a Western activist who has just recovered Ibarguren and a special appearance from Paco Tous. The film, rate, which is promoting an increase in the consumption of his troublesome 18-year-old daughter. which was shot in Seville and Cadiz, tells the story of a rookie Mediaset España’s offer in the international market. policeman who looks like a sucker and is a classic concert In this regard, two series with very different genres are worth In terms of filming, in 2019 ‘Way Down’ was one of the most performer, infiltrating a flamenco-trap band hired for a local mentioning: ‘Señoras del (h)AMPA’ and ‘La Verdad’. The black ambitious projects in Spanish cinema, for which Mediaset dealer’s daughter’s wedding. comedy ‘Señoras del (h)AMPA’ is proving to be a great success España joined forces with France’s leading audio-visual thanks to its distinctive innovative personality within the group, TF1 Studio, which is responsible for international sales. THE GROUP EXPANDS ITS CONTENT FOR audio-visual market, it was a huge success at the MIP Drama Filmed entirely in English and directed by Jaume Balagueró, THIRD PARTIES WITH MEDITERRANEO Summit event where it was awarded the ‘Coup de Coeur’ it has a strong international and Spanish cast including MEDIASET ESPAÑA GROUP prize, being recognised by buyers from all over the world as Freddie Highmore, Astrid Bergès-Frisbey, Jose Coronado, the favourite series from a selection of 10 fiction products. Liam Cunningham, Sam Riley, Luis Tosar, Emilio Gutiérrez Looking beyond advertising revenues, Mediaset España’s Mediterráneo Mediaset España Group has closed several preCaba, Axel Stein, Daniel Holguín and Famke Janssen. With a audio-visual business has expanded in 2019 through the sales of this series before its premiere on Telecinco, including spectacular deployment of technical and human resources, sale, production and distribution of content for third parties, with Star (Greece), RTBF (Belgium), Amazon Prime Video the film tells the detailed plan of a brilliant engineer who an objective with which the recently created the subsidiary (Spain), DirecTV (LatAm), Picomedia (Italy), Globosat (Brazil) intends to rob the impenetrable Bank of Spain, taking Mediterráneo Mediaset España Group has been operating in and TVNOW, the streaming service of Mediengruppe RTL advantage of the public and media attention aroused by the national and international markets this year. The company, set Deutschland (Germany). World Cup final in South Africa in 2010. up at the beginning of 2019, is made up of Telecinco Cinema and the production companies Megamedia, Supersport, El ‘Malnazidos’, an action-adventure film, is also in the postDesmarque, La Fábrica de la Tele, Bulldog, Unicorn Content, production phase. Directed by Javier Ruiz Caldera and Alberto Mandarina Producciones, Alma Producciones and Alea Media. de Toro and starring Miki Esparbé, Aura Garrido, Luis Callejo, Álvaro Cervantes, Jesús Carroza and María Botto, it is based Mediterráneo Mediaset España Group brings together the on a script by Jaime Marqués Olarreaga and Cristian Conti entire catalogue of these companies and all their talent in from the novel ‘Noche de difuntos del 38’ by Manuel Martín their various forms of creativity, reinforcing the diversity and Ferreras. The production level is high in order to recreate the specialisation of these content generating companies in film, thousands of dead bodies in the trenches that have been fiction, entertainment and multimedia digital developments, left behind by months of bloodshed and fighting, and the with the commercial power, visibility and international struggle of the survivors on both sides against a new and presence of a leading group such as Mediaset España, with unknown adversary, fighting together to avoid becoming all its know-how in in-house productio. zombies. ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 85 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT Content in the thriller genre in Mediaset España Group’s In addition to the catalogue of production companies that catalogue were also some of the most interesting on the it has a stake in, the company also includes the sale and ATLAS, OUR IN-HOUSE AND THIRD-PARTY international market this year. In this sense, agreements for distribution of third-party productions and the distribution AUDIO-VISUAL NEWS AGENCY ‘’La Verdad’’ have been reached in multiple territories such as of the CincoMAS Group’s international channel, which has Globosat (Brazil), Pro Plus (Slovenia), DBS (Israel), MBC (Mena), consolidated its presence in Latin America, strengthening its ATLAS, Mediaset España’s audio-visual news agency, has once Sony Pictures (Russia), Tring TV (Albania) and DirecTV (LatAm), presence in a total of 16 countries, growing in those where again become a benchmark for the sector with its three main adding up to 105 territories where this drama is available. The it was already available, like Argentina, Mexico or Panama business areas: News Agency, Broadcast Services and Audiopolitical thriller Secretos de Estado has also been acquired by and reaching Bolivia and Uruguay for the first time. It has visual Communication Services. The company has grown, Planet TV (Slovenia), MBC Group (MENA), Tring TV (Albania), also continued to grow on GEE’s offshore television service especially in the digital market, and is the main provider of Claro Video (LatAm and Mexico) and DirecTv (LatAm). platform, which already provides the channel’s signal to more video news content among the Spanish digital media and than 40,000 cruise ship cabins and ships. now it also has a significant international presence. Particularly relevant to 2019 was the first partnership with Amazon Prime Video for the preview of a Telecinco series, Throughout 2019, the group has incorporated international In 2019 it has covered the main current events, ending a which after the agreement signed with Mediaset España formats such as ‘Got Talent’, ‘Donde menos te esperas’ and challenging year producing more than 40,000 news items through Mediterraneo, the platform broadcast the f irst ‘Me quedo contigo’ into its programming for the first time. per year and more than 16,000 live signals. showing of the comedy ‘El pueblo’ in Spain and the series It has also continued its work to bring the group’s main in‘Caronte’, which will be premiered on the platform worldwide house productions to Latin American audiences, paying once it has been released on Mediaset España. particular attention to live broadcasts such as ‘El programa de Ana Rosa’, ‘Sálvame’, and Informativos Telecinco and Furthermore, in the last few months, up to three comedy the series ‘Se quién eres’, ‘Perdóname señor’ and ‘Grupo 2: formats have been really successful in Greece: ‘Escenas de Homicidios’, among others. Matrimonio’, which will start its seventh season on Alpha TV, ‘Chiringuito de Pepe’, produced locally by Kapa, and which has triumphed on Antenna TV, and ‘La que se avecina’, which recently premiered its Greek adaptation on the SKAI channel. In 2019 the ‘Señoras del (h)AMPA’ format has also been chosen by STAR channel. ‘La Que Se Avecina’ has been successful on f ree-to-air channels Telecinco and Factoría de Ficción not only in Spain, where it is also available the day after its broadcast on Telecinco through Amazon Prime Video and the Comedy Channel, but also in international territories such as Bulgaria, and Latin America, where the series can be enjoyed through the Viacom Group’s channels. ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 86 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT The Agency has covered the main news on politics, economy, Some of the year’s main actions and services are the live society, events, culture, international news, sports and local production of the signal for the Madrid Marathon or the news. The general elections (in April and November), the production of the pool signal for the World Basketball municipal, regional and European Parliament elections, the Championship with more than four hours of live broadcast institutional crisis in Catalonia with protests and clashes for television and digital media. These and many other in the streets following the judgement in the “procés”, productions continue to endorse ATLAS as one of the most the exhumation of Francisco Franco’s remains, the rescue reliable production service providers, always using the best of Julen in Totalán, the death of Blanca Fernández Ochoa technology for each service. Spanish and international and the 8M march were some of the events in which ATLAS television stations, digital media, and content production provided complete news coverage. companies choose ATLAS as their technical and production services partner. Regarding its international presence, ATLAS has extended It was also present at important production events such as its collaboration agreement with Reuters through its the Fronteras del Conocimiento Awards by Fundación BBVA, Connect image sales platform, which has allowed significant Ferrero Rocher’s great festival of light, Innovara Janssen’s growth in image sales to digital media and international Symposium on Chron’s Disease and Coca Cola’s New Years’ TV channels. The Financial Times, The Guardian, New York Eve videomapping at Puerta del Sol. Times, 20 Minutes (France), Le Figaro, Televisa (Mexico), Canal 13 Chile, RAI (Italy), Expansión (Mexico), TVI (Portugal), Bild With regard to ATLAS’s role within Mediaset España, it (Germany), Telefé (Argentina), Al Araby Television, Televisión continues to work closely with Informativos de Telecinco, Nacional de Chile, The Real News (USA), Canal 5 (Uruguay), and it is also the main collaborator for the technical and are some of the customers who have acquired content from production services of current affairs and entertainment ATLAS through this platform. programmes such as ‘El Programa de Ana Rosa’, ‘Ya es mediodía’, ‘Sálvame’ or ‘Viva la vida’, on Telecinco, and ‘Cuatro On top of the complete offer of current news, ATLAS adds a al día’, ‘Todo es mentira’ or ‘Cuarto Milenio’, on Cuatro. valuable documentation and an archive service that gathers news from all areas from 1991 to the present. The main Additionally, ATLAS continues providing support to content producers have relied on the archive service for the Publiespaña for the commercial and production actions that production of documentaries and series, such as “El caso Mediaset España’s advertising area demands for its clients. Alcàsser” (Netflix), “Bajo sospecha. El acusado”, “El Pionero” and “Patria” (HBO). ATLAS’ audio-visual communication services area has also experienced significant growth. A wide range of services ATLAS, from its Broadcast Services area, has continued mainly aimed at complementing the companies and providing the main audio-visual production services both institutions communication actions: creation and distribution within Mediaset España and for external clients, performing of video communications, corporate video production, the tasks such as recording, production, editing, live creation and development of actions on social networks or transmission-broadcast, streaming and image delivery, event production are some of the services most demanded among others, and being very present at the main events by ATLAS’s clients in this area. Clients such as Fundación in Spain and abroad. BBVA, Fundación La Caixa, Eroski or the agency EDT Endesa, have trusted ATLAS to carryout their communication actions in 2019. ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 87 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT ADVERTISING BUSINESS Linear television combined with Mediaset España’s digital media, which has expanded to include new profiles and MEDIASET ESPAÑA SUCCEEDS IN THE MOST VISIBLE COMMERCIAL POLICY targets, have once again become the best and most efficient CHANGING THE NAME OF THE TARGET IN HISTORY communication tool for advertisers’ campaigns in 2019. AMA DE CASA (HOUSEWIFE) TO Advertisers have made a firm commitment to these media in RESPONSABLE DE COMPRA DEL HOGAR Throughout the year, Publiespaña has maintained direct search of maximum visibility for their brands and familiarity (RESPONSIBLE FOR HOUSEHOLD contact with the sector by holding various meetings to and ability to rapidly achieve broad coverage. SHOPPING) present its new commercial products and to publish the results of various studies with significant conclusions for the The mix of linear and digital media and its high segmentation In the annual edition of AEDEMO, a major event in the market regarding television’s efficiency and communication by viewer and user profile and type has led the company to advertising sector in Spain, Mediaset España presented to potential. lead the advertising market once again with a 43.4% market the market through the claim ‘Almas de casa’ (Souls of the share in 2019, according to Infoadex, and it is also the media of House), its decision to eliminate the obsolete stereotype Coinciding with the start of the 2019/2020 season and the claim choice for the most effective campaigns in terms of recall and ‘Ama de Casa’ (Houswives) from the group’s commercial ‘Siempre en movimiento’ (Always on the move), Mediaset España visibility, aspects that Publiespaña has continued to perfect policy, inviting all the agents in the advertising sector to use presented its most visible commercial policy ever in an event that with the launch of new possibilities throughout the year. a new target called ‘Responsible for household shopping’, brought together more than 400 representatives of the country’s much more extensive, qualitative and representative of the main advertisers and media agencies; more than 60 members In this context, Mediaset España has led a major movement diversity of homes and types of families in todays society. of its staff, including presenters, actors and collaborators; and the in the sector, urging all its agents and especially Kantar, the company’s commercial team, with Paolo Vasile and Quico Alum company that measures the audience, to replace the obsolete A decision based on the fact that the traditional ‘housewife’ -Publiespaña’s General Mangaeras hosts. and stereotypical target ‘Amas de casa (‘Housewives’) with profile of the 20th century has nothing to do with that of the the current ‘Responsable de Compra del Hogar’ (‘Responsible current person responsible for filling the shopping basket in Among the new features that are aimed at expanding the for household shopping’). This initiative joined other special the 21st century. The economic, social and cultural evolution catalogue of exclusive and qualitative products for linear actions, such as the design of special 360º campaigns for in recent decades has led to substantial changes in Spanish television, the ‘Super 360’ initiative stood out, a block with a single large advertisers, the development of ad hoc commercial households, with the proliferation of new family models, and spot in prime time and in simulcast with the pre roll format on actions for third parties and different events to present their has generated a major change in a very important target for Smart TV, designed to reinforce its successful ‘Visibility Module’, new advertising products and to closely follow the sector’s advertisers, giving way to a new buyer profile in which four launched at the beginning of the year as an innovative package pulse. out of ten are men and almost 40% correspond to women with more than 100 weekly blocks of two and four minutes working full-time outside home. duration throughout the day on all its television channels (except Boing). A few weeks after its launch, more than 50 brands from This new social reality and the socio-demographic eight major groups were already opting for this formula, which composition of the target imposed the need to adapt the is capable of tripling their visibility compared to the average TV language and the name to a much more current concept, show. far from negative and sexist connotations. For this reason, a public invitation was made to the entire market, agencies, In addition, the company presented the new media in its digital advertisers, research institutes and statistic providers to join universe brand safety, which guarantees brands their link to a this initiative. In addition to the general applause recieved safe, regulated and professional environment with a transparent from the sector, since April 1st it was officially adopted by and audited measurement: Uppers, a digital media aimed at the Kantar. over-45s, one of the most demanded profiles by advertisers; the digital newspaper NIUS and the sports website El Desmarque. ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 88 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT RELEVANT STUDIES AND RESEARCH FOR A COMMERCIAL OFFER EQUAL TO THE EXCLUSIVE BRANDED CONTENT DIGITAL THE SECTOR MOST IMPORTANT SPORTS EVENT ON CAMPAIGN FREE TO AIR TV In November, Mediaset España brought together the main With regard to the design and development of events media agencies and advertisers in the automotive sector Taking advantage of the proximity of the Basketball World and commercial actions for third parties, special mention in Spain at a sector meeting to present the results of two Cup in China, the most important sports event of the year should be made of ‘Guru of Spirits’, a branded content studies carried out by PwC and GFK on the key contribution on f ree-to-air TV and entirely broadcasted by Mediaset campaign for digital media produced by Mediaset España of television to sales and the changes in both the buyer’s España, Publiespaña once again brought the sector together exclusively for FEBE (Spanish Federation of Spirits) with the profile, with women gaining ground over the last 30 years, to present its latest commercial developments related to aim of highlighting and disseminating the thousand-yearand in the purchasing decision, which is becoming more and the tournament, in which the Spanish National Team was old process of making spirits, which has an agricultural more mutually consensual. crowned world champion in the most watched basketball origin and selected and high-quality raw materials. match in the Spain’s history. Publiespaña announced that almost three out of four car sales In order to communicate the qualities of more than 120 in Spain linked to advertising are generated by the impact of The championship became a great commercial window brands’ and to convey the valuable experience to its potential TV, showing the direct effect on the business growth in this capable of guaranteeing brands the highest levels of recall consumers, FEBE chose the company’s digital media and sector according to the level of investment made in television. and visibility and the best option for achieving the greatest Branded Content area to generate very exclusive and quality With regard to the consumer profile, women’s increasing coverage in the shortest amount of time, thanks to an offer content, composed of four pieces starring Jesús Calleja, presence stood out, this profile has experienced a gradual of more than 200 qualitative blocks with the capacity to host Carme Chaparro, Sandra Barneda and Boris Izaguirre, and two and constant growth with respect to men and the distance more than 400 spots and the possibility of linking up with the documentaries: one headed by the brothers, Mario and Rafael between both genders has been reduced by 24% since 1990. entire world championship event through its broadcasts on Sandoval; and the second, where the main character was the linear television and digital media. painter and illustrator Paula Bonet, and the bartender and Previously, in May, the company brought the sector together businessman Javier de las Muelas. again in a double event held in Madrid and Barcelona As usual, Publiespaña has paid special attention to the to present pioneering research prepared by Ebiquity, an commercial policy of its children’s channel, Boing, with independent marketing and media consultancy, according a different offer to the rest of its media for the last quarter to which 95% of sales derived from advertising among the of the year, a period with high television consumption Responsible for household shopping group are achieved and commercial demand. At three large meetings with through the impact and visibility that brands achieve on advertisers and media agencies held in Valencia, Madrid and television. Barcelona, Boing opted for the integration of its linear and digital media and for the launch of new formats for product The study, which analysed how different media impact on recommendation, guaranteeing brands complementarity for Food and Beverage brands, also concluded that, in terms their campaigns in absolutely safe and reliable environments. of total return on investment, TV is three times better than digital environments overall. Thus, the leading children’s commercial television channel presented the exclusive module Extended TV 360º, capable of extending campaign coverage through an ad hoc planning on television and on Boing’s app, optimising the complementary consumption registered by both media. ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 89 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT THE HIGHEST LEVELS OF TELEVISION guaranteeing the client total coverage. A milestone only MEDIASET ESPAÑA’S DIGITAL SPOTS, THE PRESENCE AND VISIBILITY FOR MAJOR possible at Mediaset España thanks to its historic commitment MOST VISIBLE IN THE MARKET ADVERTISERS to in-house production and live shows, especially on its main channel, Telecinco. With a presence on the company’s main Mediaset España has not just been the most visible television Throughout the year, Mediaset España has also hosted major websites and social networks #GenteQueAmaLoQueHace station in Spain for many years, but it has also been recognised 360º campaigns led by major advertisers, which have ensured featured some of Mediaset España’s most emblematic in 2019 as the leading audio-visual media in the digital the highest levels of presence, brand prescription, recall and faces, such as Christian Gálvez, Carlota Corredera, Joaquín environment in terms of advertising recall. This has been visibility on today’s television. Prat, Emma García, Carme Chaparro, Santi Millán and Carlos endorsed by a wide-ranging research study carried out by Sobera. Kantar Insight Division for Publiespaña on online advertising Mediaset España and the Argal food group joined forces to launch effectiveness, which has revealed that the spots hosted on #GenteQueAmaLoQueHace (#PeopleWhoLoveWhatThey Do), Another of 2019’s great campaigns, now a classic at New its digital media achieve the highest advertising visibility on a powerful crossmedia campaign with the highest possible Year’s Eve in Mediaset España, was carried out with Ferrero the market, doubling the records obtained by the rest of the on-screen presence and prescription on TV, including actions Rocher to celebrate 30 years of the brand’s presence in our media, video platforms and social networks. and content created ad hoc in digital media and support on country. With the claim ‘30 years of light together’ and with social networks. With Tania Llasera as ambassador, this action Jesus Vazquez as a great ambassador, the action designed designed by Publiespaña’s Special Initiatives Department by Publiespaña for television and digital media served to put disseminated the brand’s key values through an initiative the finishing touch to ‘Wrap your town up with light’, the aimed at distinguishing people who are passionate about their traditional Ferrero Rocher Christmas campaign in recent work with a competition offering 14 grants as prizes valued at years, which has distinguished five of the most beautiful €100,000. towns with spectacular Christmas lights. On this occasion, the action was concluded by choosing the town from which the The campaign had a huge presence through telepromotions group’s channels would broadcast the traditional New Year’s and overprints in 10 programmes that were produced by Eve chimes. Telecinco and Cuatro, covering various genres includingmagazines, contests, news, talent shows, reality shows and dating shows-, in all time slots and aimed at different targets, ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 90 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT OTHER BUSINESS LINES PUBLISHING BUSNIESS DEPARTMENT: EVENTS The creation of events for third parties at Mediaset España’s REVENUES BEYOND TV AND facilities has been promoted by organising on the company’s Events have been one of the Publishing Business Department’ sets, company conventions, product presentations, training ADVERTISING s pillars of growth in 2019: its organisation for third parties, courses and commercial meetings. This new business line In 2019, the Publishing Business Department experienced associating them to “Mediaset brands”; adding value to the offers turnkey events, providing customised organisation, an important reorganisation of its activities to adapt to the enormous assets in technology, production and creative including technical and audio-visual production, stage design newly created Mediterráneo Mediaset España Group, which talent; and collaboration with big events outside Mediaset and setting, as well as catering and security. In addition, it will be responsible for all Mediaset España’s content rights España. highlights one of Mediaset España’s strong points: technology management and the sale of content on other platforms, and links to other international locations of these companies. operators and territories. Mediaset España is thus becoming a very active and relevant Another exclusive and referential value of the proposal is to agent in the leisure and entertainment industry. Not only offer and rely on on the faces from the main channels. Something that has not changed is that it continues to because of the communication support that has been given maintain its DNA, which is none other than the generation of to the entertainment industry for decades, but also for the Finally, collaboration with large events has been very relevant income beyond that which comes from advertising, and not events that are being created more and more with the throughout the last year, building very effective commercial always dependent on the television media, responding to the group’s brands. and content partnerships. Thus, Mediaset España has built an multi-chain and multimedia reality in which Mediaset España important communication project for IFEMA and its Mercedes operates on a daily basis. Thus, in 2019, the Department’s In this regard, in September 2019, the first edition of ‘Boing Benz Fashion Week. It has also collaborated with the Love the excellent results were based on four main areas of work: Fest’ was launched, a great event that brought together Tuentis festival, by creating the television programmes Love events; music and its music publishing business; the brands nearly 30,000 fans of the children’s channel and and included the Tuentis TV, broadcasted on Telecinco. Also participating monetisation by merchandising, licences and derived the participation of important brands. in the ‘Leonardo, los rostros del genio’ (Leonardo, the faces of products and the interaction with the audience by means of a Genius) exhibition, which was visited by more than 150,000 voting, contests and casting. The ‘Cuarto Milenio’ brand continues to go beyond TV borders people; and participating in the launch and establishment of creating attractive experiences, such as the exhibition/ Puy du Fou in Spain, one of the most powerful entertainment experience ‘Una historia de miedo’ and ‘Milenio Live’, the latter brands in France. bringing together 2,000 attendees at the IFEMA Conference Centre. Likewise, in 2019 an important partnership began with MAPOMA to jointly produce content and optimise the advertising possibilities of its events. Special mention should be made of the Concert Music Festival, of which Mediaset España is a media partner, which, after only two editions, has already been awarded the prestigious Ondas 2019 Award for Best Festival. ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 91 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT ENTERTAINMENT, MUSIC AND MUSIC With regard to the second area, Mediaset España was once PUBLISHING BUSINESS again the favourite media group for the four major record companies (Universal Music, Sony Music, Warner Music and This business line works in three areas: first, promoting the Concert Music) to promote their new releases and most company’s in-house music publishing business, which is so important launches. Agreements for the promotion of the closely connected to the day-to-day content, since it provides most important artists and records of the year have been quality and personalised music for series, programmes reached in all the different formats, including: Ed Sheeran, and f ilms; second, commercial music management El Barrio, Manuel Carrasco, Bertín Osborne, Mónica Naranjo, jointly developed with the recording industry; and finally, Antonio José, Beret, Ara Malikian, Aitana, Tequila, Vanesa communication and promotion of musical and theatrical Martín, Fangoria and a long list of others. events, shows and exhibitions. The result of this close collaboration with the music industry With regard to the first area, in 2019 Grupo Editorial Telecinco is the new theme tune for the programme ‘Viva la vida’, continued implementing its transparency policy when composed and performed by Carlos Baute, in an alliance with dealing with musicians, composers and management Warner Music. Likewise, and on this occasion with Sony Music, entities, as well as its unequivocal support for local talent by the group Dvicio was responsible for ‘Palma con Palma’, the opening up our spaces to a plurality of artists and styles. A song that underpinned the World Basketball Championship complex and ambitious technological cataloguing project self-promotions. Finally, Lola Indigo, an artist from Universal was completed in 2019, which is allowing programmes and Music, provided the voice and music for ‘El humo’, the main production companies to have more flexible access to all the theme of the Telecinco Cinema film ‘Lo dejo cuando quiera’. music made available; a greater and better level of service to musicians and composers in their relationship with the Finally, it is worth noting a specific section on Mediaset group’s publishing department; pioneering management in España’s collaboration with musical, exhibition and theatrical the exchange of information and documentation with SGAE promoters to publicise their concerts, tours, festivals, works and other national and international rights management and exhibitions. entities; and an optimum distribution of this music and the authors in all Mediaset España’s media and the main digital Thus, Mediaset On Demand closed 2019, a record year in terms platforms. The catalogue is growing in quantity, quality and of events visibility, collaborating on all the most important plurality, adding more than 2,000 new works by almost 300 Spanish artists’ tours (El Barrio, Izal, Vanesa Martín, Raphael, authors, of which around one hundred have been added Alejandro Sanz, Estopa, Aitana, Mónica Naranjo and Operación this year. The knowledge of this repertoire allows us to offer Triunfo) and the top festivals (Love the 90s, Love the Tuentis, specialised pieces and ad hoc creations that substantially BBF, Concert Music Festival, Rio Babel, Sonorama...). Also, enrich the productions. The new tool (‘GET Your Music’) also Butaca Reservada is now, barely two years after its launch, makes it possible to know how it is being used and to make the theatre and musical industry’s benchmark format with music available to productions in real time. titles such as El Médico, Anastasia, El Jovencito Frankenstein or Perfectos Desconocidos and other shows and events such The international sale of the programmes is accompanied by as Circo del Sol or Circo Alegría. In addition, four of the biggest our own musical label, in other words, formats that had third exhibitions held in our country in 2019 (‘Game of Thrones’, party music in the beginning, are now 100% GET productions. ‘Pink Floyd’, ‘Jurassic Park’ and ‘Harry Potter’) have recieved exposure from our media and formats, as well as some of the most important children’s events, such as ‘Cantajuegos’ or ‘Annie’. ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 92 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT MERCHANDISING, LICENSING AND INTERACTING WITH THE AUDIENCE: DERIVATIVE PRODUCTS VOTING, CONTESTS AND CASTINGS Content is the essence of Mediaset España, and one of the 2019 has been a very successful year for Mediaset España, goals in this business area is to transfer the values, audience interacting with the audience through contests, votes to and enormous social impact of the “Mediaset brands” decide the future of reality shows and talent shows, and (programmes, channels and presenters) to products and castings to participate in the different programmes. services, in a careful and coherent way. Some of them are magazines, toys, videogames, exhibitions, records, DVDs, Thus, the audience has shown that it enjoys interacting events, concerts, household goods and decoration, books, with its favourite programmes: one million different viewers apps, board games, food products and household appliances. have participated, at least once in 2019, in some of Mediaset España’s votes, castings and competitions, especially those Also, another goal is to create new content that will lead to where the audience takes part in a draw for attractive financial the generation of income. The creation of the ‘Mil Palabras prizes. These actions connect the company emotionally with & +’ agenda, created in 2017, is one of the most successful many hundreds of thousands of viewers’ dreams, and are examples as it has consolidated itself as the great showcase always carried out with the utmost respect for the audience for publishing releases in Spain. and the programmes’ narrative line, being integrated as one just another part of the programmes’ content. The creativity Regarding the leisure and travel sector, ‘Planes Cuatro’ was of the contests tries to involve and engage the audience created with Destinia as an eCommerce partner. Likewise, in through clear, concise and friendly participation mechanisms. early 2019 the company premiered ‘Mejor Llama a Kiko’ (Best Call to Kiko), an innovative commercial programme presented by one of the legendary collaborators of the ‘Sálvame’ programme, Kiko Hernández, developed together with Club Internacional del Libro, which has completely renewed telesales narrative and language. Also, at the end of 2019 the project ‘Alma Divinity’ was launched, a fashion brand linked to the group’s women’s channel, which will have actual stores and eCommerce www.almadivinity.com throughout 2020. ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 93 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT AWARDS RECEIVED BY MEDIASET ESPAÑA IN 2019 Asociación de Cine Solidario and the University of Alcalá de l  l AquíTV Awards to l Mental Health 2019 Award granted by the Mental Health Henares Cygnus Award, to Belén Rueda for “El Cuaderno Federation of Castilla y León to the 12 Meses campaign de Sara” l Pablo Chiapella for the Best Actor ‘Don’t play crazy’, for “giving visibility to mental health from a positive perspective and breaking the stereotypes, taboos l Radio and Televisión Award from Fundación Gala to: l Myriam Gallego for the Best Actress and stigmas of mental health problems, bringing greater public awareness to the fact that mental health is a matter l ‘Pasapalabra” for the Best Cultural Programme l ‘El programa de Ana Rosa’ for the Best Magazine Show that concerns everyone” lChristian Gálvez for the Best Educational Programme l María Patiño for the Best Presenter l National Women Awards 2019 granted by the Federación Presenter de la Mujer Rural to Abril Zamora, Director and Screenwriter l ‘La que se avecina’ for the Best Series of the series “Señoras del (h) AMPA” and the main actresses, lCarlos Sobera for the Best Entertainment and Culture Malena Alterio, Mamen Garcia, Toni Acosta and Nuria Programme Presenter l ‘Todo es mentira’ for the Best Current Affairs Programme Herrero, for their brilliant work at the head of Mediaset Divinity for the Best DTT Channel España’s ficcion l“First Dates”, Award for the Best TV Entertainment l Programme Award from the Spanish Data Protection Agency to l ‘Cazamariposas’ for the Best DTT Programme l  Mediaset España for its campaign on the General Data l Gender Power Leadership Award to Ana Rosa Quintana, Protection Regulations, in recognition of the initiative l Sesderma Woman’s Award to Ana Rosa Quintana, for her for leading TV audiences in her time slot for years and aimed at viewers and company employees career in the world of Communication successfully combining her role as a presenter with that of an entrepreneur and mother of three children Corporate Governance and Gender Diversity Award from l Ondas Award for the Best TV Presenter to Alejandra l Andrade for her programme ‘Fuera de cobertura’ on Cuatro the Fundación Woman Forward to Mediaset España in the l Coup de Coeur Award at the MIP Drama Buyers Summit in category of Media and Communication Professionals, for Cannes to ‘Señoras del (H)AMPA’ its great commitment to the new audio-visual scenario l Antena de Oro Award marked by the internationalisation of Spanish audio-visual Salvador de Madariaga Award to Ana Núñez-Milara in the Isabel Jiménez l l content and the expansion of new distribution platforms TV category, Telecinco’s Brussels correspondent for her “daily effort in reporting on Europe and the most complex Jesús Calleja l  decisions in a generalist media with limited space for international information” lAward from the Federación Nacional de Enfermos y Trasplantados Hepáticos on its 15th anniversary to the ‘12 l International Press Club Award to Ana Rosa Quintana for meses’ campaign ‘You’re perfect for others’ her professional career German Design Award to ‘La tribu del corazón’ in the l  Publifestival’s Honorary Award for ‘12 meses’ trajectory l  category of Best Integrated and Advertising Campaign l Antena de Plata 2019 Award to: l Fundación Querer Award to Ana Rosa Quintana and Joaquin Prat in the categories of Empathetic Character and Roberto Arce Hero respectively l Matías Prats Chacón Iris del Jurado Award granted by the TV Academy to Toñi l l Moreno, “for her professionalism and approachability in her work in front of the camera, for going beyond the screen and connecting in a special way with the audience in the different formats she has hosted on national and regional television throughout her career”. ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 94 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE The main economic and financial figures of the Mediaset España Group are presented below, although all economic and financial information is duly detailed in the consolidated and individual annual accounts for the corresponding periods. Consolidated financial statements (thousand euros) Operating income and expenses (thousand euros) 2017 2018 2019 Income 2017 2018 2019 Current Assets 408,225 420,955 424,393 Group advertising revenues 928,695 919,280 869,536 Non-Current Assets 826,771 775,214 998,753 Other advertising revenues 3,182 5,714 10,599 Total Assets 1,234,996 1,196,169 1,423,146 Provision of services 47,368 41,226 53,418 Other 6,404 8,257 5,448 Equity 900,077 904,805 915,754 Other operating income 10,608 7,087 7,240 Current Liabilities 302,482 254,098 271,298 Total 996,257 981,564 946,241 Non-Current Liabilities 32,437 37,266 236,094 Total Liabilities 1,234,996 1,196,169 1,423,146 Operating charges 2017 2018 2019 Decrease in inventories of finished goods and 692 (4,168) (3,102) work in progress Summary of Separate Consolidated Income Statement (thousand euros) Procurements 229,660 250,986 208,476 Personnel costs 105,646 107,824 121,543 2017 2018 2019 Audio-visual rights consumption 186,849 153,086 135,851 Total net operating income 996,257 981,564 946,241 Depreciation/amortisation 18,659 19,916 20,278 Operating costs 750,917 724,672 681,347 Change in operating provisions (1,748) (2,815) (1,180) Operating profits 245,340 256,892 264,894 Other expenses 211,159 199,843 199,481 Profit/(loss) before taxes and minority interests 247,408 265,606 270,609 Total operating charges 750,917 724,672 681,347 Net profit/(loss), group 1 197,496 200,326 211,713 1. Attributable to the Parent Company’s shareholders For further information visit the corporate web ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 95 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT TAX TRANSPARENCY The Mediaset España’s tax strategy focuses on optimising the tax contribution level under the premise of strict compliance Tax paid by the Mediaset España Group: (thousands of euros) with tax regulations and eliminating any risk that may arise from any margin of interpretation of tax regulations. Value Added Tax (VAT) 90,988 Value Added Tax (VAT Basque Country 20.07 Indirect Tax I.G.I.C (CANARIAS)-I.P.S.I (CEUTA AND MELILLA) 18.10 THE MEDIASET ESPAÑA GROUP’S PRINCIPLES OF ACTION OF THE TAX POLICY AND STRATEGY Non-resident income tax 9,722.96 INCURRED TAXES1 ((THOUSANDS OF EUROS) 59,947 Personal Income Tax on Lease Income 2 l Strict compliance with applicable tax regulations Personal Income Tax on Earned Income, Economic Activities, Awards 27,585 l C ompliance with the obligation to pay Personal Income Tax on Earned Income, Economic Activities, Awards 58 31% the corresponding taxes Personal Income Tax on Investment Income 2,718 l C ollaboration with the Tax Administration l T ransparency in its communications on Solid Urban Waste Tax 44) compliance with applicable tax obligations. Vehicle Entry Tax 12 l C ommitment to not implement or use opaque corporate structures for tax purposes, Property Tax 365 l B oard of Directors approval for operations with Spectrum Reservation fees 764 a tax impact and/or which may present a special tax risk RTVE Finance Contribution 23,045 l C  ontrol and prevention of tax risks CNMV fees 51 l C  ompliance with the “OECD guidelines for Businiess Activities Tax 102 multinational companies” COLLECTED TAXES2 ((THOUSANDS OF EUROS) 131,113 l A dherence to the “Code of Good Tax Practices of Corporate Tax Payments on account 40,665 the Public Administration” Corporate Tax -5,102 TOTAL TAX CONTRIBUTION IN SPAIN IN 2019 191,059 69% (1) Incurred Taxes: Spectrum Reservation fees; Property tax; Business Activities Tax; Value Added Tax (VAT); IGIC Canarias and IPSI Ceuta and Melilla; Corporations Tax; Solid Urban Waste Tax; Vehicle Entry Tax (No Parking); RTVE Finance Contribution; CNMV Fees. (2) Collected Taxes: Personal Income Tax on Investment Income; Non-resident income tax; Personal Income Tax on lease income; Personal Income Tax on earned income, Economic activities, Awards; Value Added Tax (VAT). ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 96 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT MEDIASET ESPAÑA’S GROUP INCURRED TAXES/FEES SPECIFIC TO THE BUSINESS COLLECTED TAXES TAXES 2019 ACTIVITY The taxes collected by the Mediaset España Group during The taxes incurred by the Mediaset Group in 2019 amounted to The incurred fees or taxes of specific activities in 2019 2019 exceeded 131 million euros, where more than 69% of the almost 60 million euros, where more than 59% corresponded exceeded 23 million euros, with almost 97% corresponding to tax contribution corresponded to value added tax (VAT) to Corporate tax and more than 38% to the Radio y Televisión the RTVE finance contribution. and 21% to the Personal Income Tax on Earned Income, Española (RTVE) Finance Contribution. Economic Activities and Awards. Spectrum Non-resident Reservation fees income tax 7.42% 1.27% Spectrum Reservation fees Personal Income Tax 3.21% on investment and lease income 2.07% Personal Income Tax Other 0.96% on earned income, economic activities, awards 21.08% RTVE Finance Contribution 38.44% Corporate Tax 59.32% RTVE Finance Value Added Tax (VAT) Contribution 69.43% 96.79% THE MEDIASET GROUP’S TAX TOTAL TAX CONTRIBUTION CONTRIBUTION WITH REGARDS TO RATIO IN 2019 REVENUES IN 2019 20% of the Mediaset España Group’s turnover is used to pay In 2019, the ratio for the Mediaset España Group’s Total Tax taxes, of which 6% corresponds to incurred taxes and 14% are Contribution in Spain amounted to 22%. The incurred taxes collected taxes. represent 22% of the total consolidated profit before taxes. ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 97 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT RECONCILIATION BETWEEN THE ANNUAL PROFIT BEFORE TAX AND CORPORATE Grants received in 2019 (thousand euros) TAX (THOUSANDS EUROS) 2019 GRANTS RECEIVED Consolidated profit for the year before tax 270,609 FROM THE INSTITUTE OF OTHER GRANTS GRANTS RECEIVED CINEMATOGRAPHY AND Consolidation adjustment -19,459 RECEIVED FROM FROM AUDIO-VISUAL ARTS, FOR FILM PUBLIC BODIES NON-GOVERNMENTAL CO-PRODUCTION 0 76 Permanent differences 10,096 SOURCES 0 1 Temporary differences -13,916 Taxable income (tax result) 247,330 Taxable income 247,330 Tax payable (25%) 61,833 Offsetting negative taxable income -15,458 Deductions and rebates -11,921 (1) Corresponds to the bonuses for the continuous training plans of the Fundación Tripartita. Withholdings -39,718 Corporate Tax rebate (5,265) NEGATIVE TAXABLE INCOME (THOUSAND EUROS) EFFECTIVE TAX RATE NOMINAL TAX RATE CONECTA5 MEDIACINCO CARTERA NETSONIC 21% 25% 5,690 28,995 1,167 Note: Effective tax rate differs f rom the nominal tax rate due to deductions for audio-visual production. ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 98 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT TAX CONTRIBUTION OUTSIDE SPANISH TERRITORY The Mediaset España Group’s tax contribution outside of Spanish territory is limited to (IRNR) Nonresident income tax, (Mediaset España, Telecinco Cinema, Netsonic and Producciones Mediterráneo) and the taxation in each country where there are subsidiaries of the Netsonic Group (1). The contribution of the Group’s companies in the countries where they operate are, mainly, related to the volume of current operations. In 2019 Corporate Taxes have not been paid as the results have been losses in the year, or if there have been profits, they have been compensated with losses from previous years. (1) Netsonic Group is formed by subsidiaries in Mexico, Colombia, USA and Peru. Taxes paid in 2019 by Group companies domiciled in foreign territory Company Country Tax Equivalent € Netsonic SAS COLOMBIA VAT 48,425 Netsonic SAC PERU VAT 1,113 Netsonic Corporation USA Local Tax 104 Netsonic S. de. R. L. de C.V. MEXICO VAT 543 TOTAL 50,185 Taxes paid outside of Spain in 2019 by Group companies domiciled in Spain Company Country Tax Equivalent € MEDIASET ESPAÑA AUSTRALIA Withheld payments 75 NETSONIC EQUADOR Withheld payments 4,640 CHILE Withheld payments 177 TELECINCO CINEMA HONG KONG Withheld payments 888 GERMANY Withheld payments 158 PORTUGAL Withheld payments 250 EQUADOR Withheld payments 24 ITALY Withheld payments 5,760 FRANCE Withheld payments 2,500 FRANCE Withheld payments 9,246 GREECE Withheld payments 6,374 MEDITERRÁNEO BRAZIL Withheld payments 3,579 ISRAEL Withheld payments 860 GERMANY Withheld payments 6,134 ITALY Withheld payments 187,360 FRANCE Withheld payments 12,121 MACEDONIA Withheld payments 236 UNITED KINGDOM Withheld payments 10,292 MEXICO Withheld payments 4,714 ISRAEL Withheld payments 3,481 PERU Withheld payments 40 ITALY Withheld payments 1,680 PARAGUAY Withheld payments 16 SLOVENIA Withheld payments 640 USA Withheld payments 26,263 UKRAINE Withheld payments 510 TOTAL 290,290 USA Withheld payments 2,271 ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 99 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT SHAREHOLDERS AND INVESTORS VALUE 2019 has been another intense year for the stock market. In turn, the progressive implementation of the Mif id II At a stock market level, 2019 saw generalised increases, At a national level, the slow-down in the domestic GDP regulations has continued to change the way investors, although it should be noted that the IBEX 35 remained behind growth rate and political uncertainty weighed on investors’ analysts and listed companies relate to each other. Some the rest of the European indices. Thus, the Spanish index rose expectations. At an international level, the geopolitical research houses have had to reassess the size of their by 11.8% to end the year at 9,549.20 points. The Italian MIB rose scenario, as well as the commercial tensions that have arisen teams and the number of broadcasters that they could 28.3%, the French CAC 26.4% and the German DAX 25.5%. The between the United States and China, have not favoured the cover, which has led to, both Mediaset España and other London FTSE 100, affected by the uncertainty and volatility existence of a stable macroeconomic environment either. At similar sized firms, seeing part of the active coverage that generated by Brexit, advanced, especially in the last part of a sectoral level, the challenge which, in the investment they had until then being withdrawn. In addition, the the year, ending the year with more moderate advances of community’s opinion, the new platforms represent announcement of the merger between Mediaset España and 12.1%. in terms of viewers consumption habits, is that they Mediaset SpA to create a new pan-European media company, are causing the consumption of linear TV to decrease in Media For Europe (MFE), introduced a key corporate element The Dow Jones and Nasdaq 100 ended the year with gains of recent years. This scenario has caused those sectors that are in the communication performance of the Investor Relations 22.3% and 38.0%, respectively. considered to be cyclical to contintue readjusting, as they did Area. After the announcement of the operation in June in 2018, their weight in the portfolios of those managers who 2019 and the tha followe in this regard, with legal disputes considered that the investment options and the expected that introduced uncertainty regarding the execution of the returns were more interesting in other types of companies, operation, the investors have focused more on regulatory and less linked to the economic cycle and with the presence legal aspects than on the company’s operational data. of less intense challenges than those currently facing, in the opinion of the analysts, FTA television. ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 100 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT MEDIASET ESPAÑA ON THE STOCK MEDIA SECTOR’S EVOLUTION IN THE MARKET IN 2019 Mediaset España: share evolution in 2019 STOCK MARKET IN 2019 Mediaset España’s share recorded its annual maximum on As far as comparable companies in the European environment March 6th at the close of the trading session at €7.03, while are concerned, stock market performance during the the minimum was reached on August 12th at €5.10. In annual ANNUAL year was unequal. While the British ITV led the way with 7.03€ MAXIMUM terms the share was revalued by 3.1%. increases of 20.9% and the French M6 19.5%, TF1 and Mediaset MARCH España recorded more moderate increases of 4.5% and 3.1% The weighted average price of Mediaset España’s shares, ANNUAL respectively. On the downside, the share price of Atresmedia accumulated in the year to December 31st, 2019, was €5.66. MINIMUM declined 20.2% in 2019, while Germany’s Prosieben and Italy’s With regard to the average negotiated volume, it is worth 5.10€ AUGUST Mediaset SpA recorded cuts of 10.5% and 3.1% respectively. noting the decrease experienced once the requests regarding the right of separation offered in the merger operation with At year-end, ITV’s market capitalisation doubled that of its Mediaset SpA were made. This separation right allowed those immediate competitor, reaching 6,814 million euros, while shareholders who did not want to be part of the resulting Mediaset España occupied f ifth position in the sector, company (MFE) the possibility of selling their shares in the reaching a capitalisation of 1,853 million euros, 2.4 times the event of the transaction going ahead at a price of €6.544. size of its immediate competitor in the Spanish market. One of the conditions required for this was to keep the Fuente: . shares blocked from the time the request was made (early October) until the merger is completed. The number of shares that requested the right of separation amounted to 39 million shares, more than 25% of the company’s free float. Mediaset España: total negotiated volume and The immobilisation of these securities, preventing them from average price being traded on the stock market, significantly reduced the volume brokered in the last three months of the year. 6.80€ 6.80€ 6.75€ 6.59€ Mediaset España’s capitalisation at the end of the year 6.37€ amounted to 1,853 million euros, compared to an accumulated Dividend April 2019 5.94€ 5.90€ 6.08€ capitalisation of the rest of the national comparables of 1,954 million. The immediate competitor’s share fell by 20.2% in 5.55 5.65€ 5.73€ 2019, while the following competitors grew by 11.4% and 11.8%. 5.66€ 168.1 137.4 246.8 208.1 186.9 173.2 154.5 144.0 125.8 94.4 84.1 45.0 6,814 3,241 3,142 2,121 1,853 1,561 786 Jan. 19 Feb.19 Mar. 19 Apr. 19 May. 19 Jun. 19 Jul. 19 Aug. 19 Sep. 19 Oct. 19 Nov. 19 Dic. 19 ITV Prosieben Mediaset M6 Mediaset TFI Atresmedia SpA España Negotiated Volume Weighted average price 1,853 786 1,020 148 Source: Mediaset España Atresmedia Prisa Vocento Source: . ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 101 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT WORKFORCE VALUE The business successes achieved by the Group during the last Respect, transparency and honesty are the main company few years thanks to its professionals, who have an in-depth values. Mediaset España’s corporate culture is anchored in knowledge of the sector, a high level of adaptive intelligence the capacity for constant adaptation to the environment and MAIN INITIATIVES 2019 and a strong commitment to the Group’s project. innovation as a means of evolution and growth of both, the business and the professionals who form part of the company. l Megamedia, Supersport and El Desmarque are now The in-depth knowledge of the sector is supported by the Being part of the sectors evolution is the corporate hallmark. under the Group’s management. continuous exchange of synergies between areas, internal l Digital transformation plan: evolution of digital skills communication actions and the definition of an ambitious Likewise, the passion and commitment of the professionals in the professionals who are part of the digital projects Development Plan that allows the employees to be able to who are part of Mediaset España is the main asset to building in NIUS the digital newspaper and in the company’s tackle future projects. all the above, as well as generating a work environment commercial areas. that promotes the well-being and collaboration among l To continue with the Employer Branding strategy. Talent management is supported by two fundamental pillars: colleagues. This aspect is highly valued internally. l Communication and training in the Compliance on the one hand, to implement the strategy and values function and updates in accordance with the Data defined by the company and on the other, to continuously The loyalty of talent is a key factor for Human Resources Protection Regulation. update the skills required in the different positions as a result Management, which guarantees the proper functioning of the Implementation of the Royal Decree (RDL) 8/2019 on l  of the market evolution. The value proposition offered by company. Salary conditions, work flexibility and professional systems for recording the time worked. the company through the Human Resources Management development continue to be the main aspects most valued l Negotiation and signature of the Agreement is focused on meeting the business and workforce needs, by the staff. However, issues such as identification with amendment to cover the Digital Newspaper’s activity. through flexible employment policies, training programs and corporate values, professional recognition and a sense of l Training audio-visual sectors professionals through initiatives that add value to the business and give employees belonging are becoming increasingly valuable. Consequently, strategic alliances with prestigious educational the chance to develop. Mediaset España is committed to boosting its brand image, institutions. promoting initiatives that involve workforce participation. l Third edition of the informative event for employees’ children, making them aware of the needs and trends of the current employment market and the importance of attitude in achieving professional development. TALENT Attraction Development Retention ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 102 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT MAIN INDICATORS AVERAGE WORKFORWORKFORCE AT YEAR INTERNS (3) WORK EXPERIENCE CE (1) (PEOPLE) END (2) (PEOPLE) STUDENTS (4) (PEOPLE) (PEOPLE) 1,558.5 1,551 366 77 AVERAGE AGE OF THE PROPORTION OF PROPORTION OF WORKFORCE (5) FEMALE EMPLOYEES EMPLOYEES WITH (ANNUAL AVERAGE) INDEFINITE CONTRACTS (6) 44.8 48.3% 96.7% (1) Includes permanent and temporary employees, 2019 annual average. It does not include workers hired through Temporary Employment Agencies, internships or work experience placements. TURNOVER RATE (7) AVERAGE LENGTH OF (2) Refers to the permanent and temporary personnel, at 31 December. SERVICE IN THE (3) Total annual data. WORKFORCE (YEARS) (5) 3.08 14.69 (4) Total annual data. (5) Calculated as of 31st December. (6) Refers to permanent employees with an indefinite contract. Data is calculated to 31 December 2019. (7) Unwanted leave (voluntary redundancies + voluntary leave of absence) / Average workforce * 100. ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 103 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT Geographic distribution Workforce by Group Company, job Workforce distribution by age category and gender Total TOTAL SPAIN Managers 73 39 <30 134 1,547 Head of dpt. 48 48 FEMALE MANAGERS 30-50 949 MADRID 99.74% BARCELONA BILBAO SEVILLE Journalists Employees 161 515 158 493 34.8% >50 TOTAL 468 1551 1,476 19 4 48 Operators 16 0 2017: 36% 2016: 33% Total 813 738 95.16% 1.22% 0.26% 3.1% TOTAL OUTSIDE SPAIN Workforce distribution by contract type 4 0.26% TOTAL SPAIN TOTAL OUTSIDE SPAIN PERMANENT COLOMBIA MEXICO USA PERMANENT TEMPORARY 1,451 96 4 PERMANENT 1 2 1 93.81% 1 2 1 (1) The staff outside of Spain are contracted by Netsonic’s subsidiaries in TEMPORARY 703 748 34 62 1 3 each country, they perform online advertising marketing activities and are all local staff, except for one person in the US who has moved there from Spain. 6.19% Scope: Mediaset Group. Data as of December 31, 2019. Comparative information with previous years is available in the “Additional Information” section of this document. ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 104 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT Distribution of part-time workforce Workforce with reduced working hours Managers 0 4 138 22 Head of dpt. 0 6 Journalists 5 34 Employees 16 94 2017: 145 2017: 16 Operators 1 0 2018: 144 2018: 16 TOTAL 22 138 Parental leave Employees working under the Performance Evaluation System Mediaset España (1) Managers 52 25 8.1% Employees who took parental leave 22 19 Head of dpt. 7 5 Employees who returned to work in 2019 after taking parental leave 25 22 Employees of the workforce 3 18 Rate of return to work and retention of employees who took parental 100% 84.21% Total Mediaset España 62 48 leave1 Publiespaña Employees who returned to work after parental leave was granted 13 15 Managers 15 11 and who maintained their employment in the 12 months after their reinstatement Note: The entire workforce has the right to apply for a maternity / paternity leave Head of dpt. Employees 95.7% of the workforce 38 7 9 97 (1) 3 people who have not returned from parental leave because they continued benefitting from it at the end of the year. Total Publiespaña 60 117 Total Mediaset Group 122 165 External Collaborators1 (1) Includes all the group’s companies carrying out performance evaluations except Publiespaña. In 2019, a total of 53 promotions were carried out based on workforce performance. Interns 143 223 Work experience students 43 34 Temporary employment agency workers 355 310 (1) Accumulated data of individuals throughout the year. Scope: Mediaset Group. Data as of December 31, 2019. Comparative information with previous years is available in the “Additional Information” section of this document. ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 105 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT EMPLOYEE RELATIONS Collective agreements in 2019 (1) The employment relationship between the company and its employees is framed in the collective agreements applicable to the Group’s companies. These collective Mediaset España Conecta 5 Netsonic 2 93% 67% agreements ensure appropriate working conditions that are accepted by both parties, an appropriate social climate and the competitiveness of the company in the audio-visual market. Each agreement defines its own 100% scope of application, providing for the exclusion of certain groups, which due to their uniqueness have their own regulations. In turn, freedom of association and trade union freedom, both fundamental rights, are recognised Publiespaña Telecinco Cinema 100% 50% and respected in each country where the Group has a workforce, through the application of the legal provisions established in each place. During 2019, there was no risk related to the exercise of freedom of association and trade union freedom rights. Mediterráneo Supersport El Desmarque Megamedia 75% 99% 100% 96% (1) Scope: Mediaset España Group. Data as of 31 December 2019. (2) Applicable to Netsonic in Spain. Employment relationships and the guarantees to respect workers’ rights hired by Netsonic’s subsidiaries in each country (workers who work in Colombia, Mexico and the United States), are regulated by the legislation of each country, strictly enforced by the Netsonic Group. ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 106 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT EQUALITY, TACKLING DISCRIMINATION AND HARASSMENT Equal opportunities, non-discrimination and harassment There have been no cases of discrimination nor have there prevention are included in Mediaset España’s Code of Ethics been any complaints due to harassment in the workplace in EQUALITY AGENTACTIONS IN 2019 and its effective application is guaranteed by the current 2019. collective agreements, also the Equality Plans implemented by each Group company and the Psychosocial and The Group’s companies equality plans establish, among the Preparation of the Annual Report on Equality in the l  Workplace Harassment Risk Management Procedure in the measures to promote training, the possibility of accessing Company, to be given to the workers’ representatives Work Environment, as described in the section Workforce through the Employee Portal all the information relating in Mediaset España and Publiespaña. This document Management of this document. to the Training Plan and the catalogue of courses offered addresses issues such as the representation of women by the Company, as well as the possibility of applying onin the organisation, the percentage of women in line. Likewise, all the information regarding study grants positions of responsibility, the distribution of the for the workforce is published through the company’s workforce by level and professional specialty and internal communication channels. Furthermore, the Group’s measures adopted to promote equality and conciliation, Equality Plans Code of Ethics sets outs the principles and values of nonaccess to employment, training and communication. discrimination on the basis of race, nationality, ethnic l M  anagement, advice and processing the application origin, gender or disability, among other detailed reasons, of the measures contained in the Equality Plans and maintaining a policy of “zero tolerance” with regard to any Collective Agreements. Mediaset behaviour considered discriminatory. In this way, Mediaset Publiespaña España España aims to guarantee equal access to the training IX EQUALITY PLAN programs, internships and scholarships it offers. VI EQUALITY PLAN To date, it has not been necessary to implement gender(01/01/2019 TO 31/12/2019) (01/04/18 TO 31/03/2021) PSYCHOSOCIAL In addition, the Master’s Degree in Audio-visual Content sensitive talent recruitment and retention practices, as PSYCHOSOCIAL AND WORKPLACE Creation and Management is available to any type of group, gender equity has been naturally maintained in both aspects. AND WORKPLACE HARASSMENT RISK with an equal access procedure for all those interested in However, it is worth noting that in 2019 the companies HARASSMENT RISK MANAGEMENT MANAGEMENT enrolling. Megamedia and El Desmarque were outside of the Group’s PROCEDURE PROCEDURE management control perimeter, and due to the nature of In order to guarantee equal leadership opportunities their activity they have a higher proportion of men than within the Group, since 2014 a management development women. In this regard, it will be taken into account when programme has been carried out exclusively for women addressing gender strategies in these areas. with potential, who hold positions of responsibility in the Conecta 5 Telecinco Cinema company. This programme aims to provide them with the knowledge, skills and abilities necessary to effectively hold VII EQUALITY PLAN management positions and thus facilitate women’s access PSYCHOSOCIAL (JULY 2018 TO MARCH AND WORKPLACE 2021) to management positions within the company, in order to HARASSMENT RISK counteract the so-called “glass ceiling”. In 2019, 10 female MANAGEMENT PSYCHOSOCIAL PROCEDURE AND WORKPLACE workers from different Group companies have participated HARASSMENT RISK in this programme, with a total of 49 women participating MANAGEMENT PROCEDURE since it was launched. ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 107 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT FRINGE BENEFITS AND WORK-LIFE BALANCE MEASURES In 2019 the following fringe benefits and work life balance measures have been enjoyed by the employees. Disability and Temporary disability Maternity Paternity Additional week of Accumulated Flexible daily hours Special advances death insurance supplement supplement supplement maternity leave breastfeeding leave (Mediaset España) 14 people. The entire Group 365 people. 16 people. 5 people. 19 people. 19 people. 848 people. workforce. Employee club Reserved spaces for Reserve spaces for Leave of absence to Reductions for legal Other reductions The entire Group pregnant employees medical reasons look after children or guardians in force of working hours in workforce. 15 people. 14 people. family members 165 people. force 12 people. 9 people. Workplace parking Health Insurance Exceptional bonus Transport Service Free canteen Gym subsidy Christmas hamper Toys at Christmas The entire Group 283 people have 940 Mediaset España Applicable to (Madrid) / Lunch (required groups) 1,504 hampers 1,150 toys were given workforce located in benefitted from workers benefitted the entire Group vouchers (Other 14 people. distributed. to the employee’s offices) Madrid. The parking personal health from the exceptional Workforce (Madrid). children. has approximately insurance paid for bonus aproved in 177,336 set menus 700 spaces (607 by the Company. In the new Collective served to the Group of them at the addition, 335 health Agreement. In employees. Fuencarral facilities of insurance policies for addition, 207 4,359 lunch vouchers the company). spouses and children employees of the distributed in other Further information (up to 25 years) have Group received an offices. For more information on Fringe Benefits and been paid. exceptional bonus. Work-life balance measures available, click here ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 108 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT IMPROVING SKILLS AND RECRUITMENT OF NEW TALENT TOTAL The digital transformation that companies have been facing INVESTMENT INVESTMENT EMPLOYEES HOURS OF INVESTMENT IN in recent years has triggered a common problem: the IN TRAINING TRAINED TRAINING PER STUDY GRANTS IN IN TRAINING PER EMPLOYEE shortage of qualified digital profiles. The demand for this type EMPLOYEE 2019 EMPLOYEES 2019 2019 (€ THOUSAND) (€ THOUSAND) (€ THOUSANDS) of profile, not only by companies in the audio-visual sector, has increased competitiveness and, therefore, the difficulty in recruiting this type of talent and incorporating it into the 266 1,133 10.85 64 361 company. This has led the Group to double up on its efforts, especially in strategies of employer branding, selection and retention of talent. The 2019 Training Plan was intended to meet the technical needs, skills development and risk prevention needs in the workplace, as well as those related to criminal risks and the Data Protection Royal Decree, which are necessary for the correct performance of the jobs positions and with the aim of underpinning the digital transformation in all company areas. Therefore, the most relevant training areas of the year were those related to the digital transformation and actions aimed at developing skills. In this respect, large training and development projects have been undertaken in the news area, to achieve the “digital transformation” in those people linked to the creation, editing and publication of the digital newspaper Nius, or the implementation of a new work process for the staff working in advertising. In addition, in 2019 Mediaset España has participated for the third consecutive year in the Digital Talent Meeting Employment Fair in the Digital Era (FEED), an event which, in its sixth edition, brought together thousands of young people looking for their first work experience, with more than a hundred major companies from different sectors. Mediaset España once again had its own space in which it was able to show attendees the main attractions of working with their IT profiles in the Mediaset España audio-visual group, as well as its advances and digitalisation projects, the characteristics most in demand by multimedia production companies and the different professional profiles that create the Group’s digital content. ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 109 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT Mediaset España has also played a relevant role through its presentation “Eres digital, ¿verdad o fake?” (“You are digital, right or fake”), given by Nuria Labari, Megamedia’s Content Manager, and “Innovación en el talento” (“Innovation in Adaptation to talent”) developed by Alicia Zamora, Human Resources the job Manager. 2,070 12% With regard to skills development, the company has Digital skills Software/IT continued working on continuous training in the areas of leadership, personnel management and change 1,242 training 7% management, in order to keep making the Group a great place for professional development. We also continued with 705 the Sum@ programme, launched last year, where great 4% professionals from the company approached the workforce on topics such as branded concept, advertising sales and HOURS OF strategic marketing. TRAINING GIVEN 16,909 The study grants programme for group employees OHS Development to participate in the Master’s in Audio-visual Content Creation and Management not only provides them with 2,656 of skills 16% multidisciplinary knowledge of the company’s activity at the hands of an experienced team of teachers, but it also helps 4,305 them acquire and develop key skills and abilities for their 25% professional development within the audio-visual sector. In short, more than 72% of the workforce has received Language some training impact in 2019, with an average of 10 hours Training Others of training per employee, reflecting the Group’s strong 1,230 4,701 commitment to internal talent and training through study 7% 28% grants and internship programmes and the conversion of professional profiles to the digital environment. Scope: the reported data includes the Mediaset España’s Group and Temporary Employment Agency employees. ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 110 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT Training by professional category and gender Skills training programmes 2019 Hours of training (Hours) ratio NUMBER OF HOURS ATTENDANCE ACTIONS Managers 639 1,275 8.69 31.28 14 4,305 83 Heads of Department 1,024 1,077 21.23 22.28 Journalists 769 1,948 4.98 12.23 Note: refers to different training actions, without including training actions repeated in the different companies of the Group. Employees 4,592 4,383 8.98 8.69 Transversal skills training programmes Operators 139 8 7.51 11.94 Temporary employment Agencies 320 735 Total 7,483 9,426 9.28 12.52 NUMBER OF HOURS ATTENDANCE ACTIONS Scope: Mediaset España Group. 30 7,294 233 Note: The training offered to employees hired by Temporary Employment Agencies is not taken into account in the training ratios and neither is the hourly ratio per person calculated. NUMBER OF STUDY Note: refers to different training actions, without including training actions repeated in the different companies of the Group. GRANTS 119 DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION 1,242 HRS . 181 PARTICIPANTS INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATION TECHNOLOGY 1,364 HRS . 201 PARTICIPANTS ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 111 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT Mediaset España’s commitment to the generation of In addition, in 2019 an agreement has been signed with the knowledge in the audio-visual sector, put into practice Escuela Superior de Imagen y Sonido CES, in order to provide through the University Master’s Degree in Creation and Dual training based on the Group’s needs, in which the Management of Audio-visual Content and the agreements students of a Training cycle on Direction and Post-production made with universities, business schools and professional will be trained in the most critical areas of the company and training centres, provides an excellent way of recruiting new will do internships in the Group companies, from 2020. talent, while facilitating the acquisition of technical and human skills for its participants, allowing them to improve In addition to this, the first edition of “Showrunner: Aula their possibilities in the audio-visual employment market. de ficción” was launched. It was presented in October 2019 and given jointly by Mediaset España and the ESCAC, where In particular, the University Master’s Degree in Audio-visual current professionals in the film and television sector will Content Creation and Management provides students with train students in an exclusive training course that will allow a series of tools that give them an advantage in terms of them to acquire the experience and knowledge necessary to skills and knowledge over other professionals, in order to join the audio-visual industry in the development, creation achieve success in their careers. All the modules and areas of and production of fiction content and will provide them with knowledge included in the Master are the logical continuation the necessary tools-skills to become the future showrunners of the creation of content and management processes, of Spanish fiction. This in turn will result in a new way for starting from the idea through to the distribution to the final Mediaset España to access new talent in fiction creation. client and subsequent analysis of results. The achievement of the skills, developed from the exercises based on the tasks of each Mediaset España department, together with a practical training period in the Group companies, integrates the students in the company and provides them with a series of highly significant indicators, not only in knowledge and skills, but also in the very attitude they have to assume, which will allow them to have a competitive advantage to access quality employment. This was evidenced by the participation of 16 students in the 9th edition of the Master’s Degree in Creation and Management of Audio-visual Content, which ended in June 2019, 3 of whom were subsequently hired by Group companies and by the participation of 443 students from universities and professional training colleges during the year, 6 of whom were hired on a permanent basis and 85 through Temporary Employment Agencies. ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 112 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY Health and safety campaigns The Occupational Health and Safety Plan 2019-2022 in 2019 FLU regulates and guarantees the Health and Safety VACCINATION at Work of the Group’s employees, and the Annual HEALTHY DIET Occupational Health and Safety Plan is derived from it. In 2019 the following are the main activities carried out: EYE DISEASE DETECTION Free eye check to any 226 PEOPLE From the catering service provider MEASURES TO ENSURE THE SAFETY AND worker who requests it. WELFARE OF EMPLOYEES l l Fire drills in Fuencarral and Villaviciosa Making the maps “You’re Here” 342 PEOPLE l T raining courses in preventive matters (Height, electrical risk, Leadership in occpational health and safety, Elevation Platforms, etc.). lN  ew Occupational Health and Safety Plan l I SO 45.001 Audit certification l A dapting Fuencarral facilities to the accessibility conditions required by the Autonomous Community of PREVENTION OF Madrid. MELANOMA lR  isk evaluation of the new power transformer centre, Review and diagnosis by dermatologists, of the access to roofs and building access control. dermatological diseases l I ndividual Health Monitoring and skin cancer. lH  ealth and Safety Campaigns 356 lS  ound Measurement and Risk Evaluation in PostProduction Studios and Programmes PEOPLE All people who come to our facilities have access to SPM, both because of work-related accidents or illnesses, and because of other personal health issues, unrelated or caused by work. BLOOD DONATION In collaboration with the Spanish Red Cross PHYSIOTHERAPIST Donation Centre. Access to physiotherapy insitu at Fuencarral 3 facilities for all personnel who request CAMPAIGNS it or following doctor’s 177 recommendations. BLOOD DRAWS ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 113 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT Mediaset España is part of the Ministry of Employment In addition, workers have direct access to the respective and Social Security’s Healthy Companies Network and has Health and Safety Committee, on a quarterly basis, or the expressed its commitment to the Luxembourg Declaration. existence of a suggestion box for everything related to As a Healthy Company, the company manages its Occupational Risk, which is checked on a monthly basis. worker’s health using a comprehensive and integrated approach, considering health in all company policies, which is reflected in the Comprehensive Healthy Company The Health and Safety Management System implemented in the Group meets the requirements of the applicable 6,245 Management System Manual. In this regard, in 2019 regulations published in the BOE and BOCAM (Spanish people used various measures have been taken to promote health and Madrid Official Gazettes respectively) and published the among its staff. by the INSHT (National Institute of Safety and Hygiene in Medical Service the Workplace), the IRSHT (Regional Institute of Safety and in 2019 The Quality of the Occupational Health Services is measured Hygiene in the Workplace), Standards and Procedures of annually, by means of a Quality Audit. Until 2018 it was done the European Commission, Spain and the Autonomous according to OSHA 18.001 but from 2019, in order to adapt Community of Madrid. and comply with the best standards, it is done according to ISO 45.001. The head of the Group’s Joint Prevention Service is For the purpose of mitigating possible risk situations in responsible for carrying out the audit. Thus, in 2019 Mediaset which workers may be involved, informative campaigns, España carried out the corresponding audit and obtained the training courses and information have been provided on data corresponding certification for its work facilities in Fuencarral, display screens, Back School, Road Safety, Working at Height, where 95% of the Group’s total workforce carries out its Elevation and Transport Platforms, Use of Scaffolding and activity. Portable stages, Order and Cleanliness and the Use of Drones. ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 114 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT MEASURES TO ENSURE EMPLOYEES SAFETY AND WELFARE Distribution of information on the intranet about l  jobs, associated risks and preventive measures. OHS TRAINING BASIC TRAINING ON POSTURAL LEADERSHIP  pecific prevention in the programme’s special events, l S in coordination with the Programme Production area. OCCUPATIONAL FOR OHS l C  oordination of business activities in preventive matters GIVEN, HEALTH AND HYGIENE MANAGERS with collaborating companies. NUMBER OF PARTICIPANTS SAFETY COURSE 21 33 l P  resence of Preventive Resources in the assembly / AND COURSE 3 4H 3.3 H disassembly of programme sets. l  D  esignation of Authorised Personnel in jobs that may HOURS 50 H involve some specific risk, among other actions. ADVANCE MANUAL TRAINING ON FIRE FIGHTING HANDLING ELECTRICAL RISK 26 88 7H 13 4H 7H RISK PREVENTION FOR OFFICE POSTIONS 41 1H SAFETY LOAD OHS ON USE OF SAFETY AT SUPPORT DISLPLAY ELEVATION HEIGHT SCREEN PLATFORMS 92 45 55 45 8H 4H 4H 10 H Scope: the data includes Mediaset España’s group and workers contracted via temporary employment agencies. ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 115 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT Accidents at work TOTAL TOTAL DAYS LOST EXCLUDING ACCIDENTS AT WORK WITH COMMUTING COMMON ACCIDENTS NOT AT WORK DAYS LOST (1) MATERNITY AND PATERNITY SICK LEAVE (AAWSL) ACCIDENTS (AII) ILLNESS (CI) (ANAW) LEAVE 4 3 6 6 168 227 4 2 7,839 11,313 6,901 8,757 7 12 395 6 19,152 15,658 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 6 3 13 8 264 265 6 9 14,575 14,770 11,980 11,790 Scope: Mediaset España Group except El Desmarque (1) ) It includes data corresponding to AAWSL, AII, CI, ANAW and also maternity / paternity leave. Note: In 2019 there have been no deaths due to an accident at work or occupational disease, nor has there been any high-impact accident in the workforce or in the workers contracted via temporary employment agencies. There have been 3 occupational accidents with leave and 2 commuting accidents, all of them minor in nature, among the personnel contracted via temporary employment agency. The rate of recordable injuries in this group was 14.3. Accident rates In the normal course of business activities, those work activities considered as high incidence or high risk of certain accidents or illnesses are not carried out. INCIDENCE RATE In 2019 there were no activities OF OCCUPATIONAL RECORDABLE INJURY FREQUENCY RATE INCIDENCE RATE SERIOUSNESS RATE DISEASES (IROD) RATE classified as hazardous at any of the 2.92 4.67 0.11 0 7.92 Group’s facilities. However, Despite having implemented a complete occupational risk prevention system in 2019 there have been 7 2018: 1.49 2018: 2.40 2018: 0.05 2018: 0 2017: 2.97 2017: 4.79 2017: 0.04 2017: 0 occupational accidents, 2 of them with leave due to over-exertion in places other than the workplace. In all cases, the Joint Prevention Scope: Mediaset España Group except El Desmarque Service has supported the person Frecuency rate= nº AAWSL x 1,000,000 / Hours worked of average employees who suffered the accident and Incidence rate = nº AAWSL x 1,000 / average employees Seriousness rate = Days lost due to AAWSL x 1,000 / Hours worked of average employees. reviewed the corresponding risk I.R.O.D.= nº O.D. / average employees x 1 assessments. Rate of recordable work-related injuries = nº AAWSL + AII x 1,000,000 / Hours worked of average employees. The hours worked have been estimated based on the annual hours of Mediaset España’s Collective Agreement and the average number of employees. Although the safety and health of external workers is guaranteed by the procedure for coordinating activities managed through the Joint Prevention Service, they are excluded when calculating the Group’s accident rate. ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 116 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT VALUE FOR SOCIETY MEDIASET ESPAÑA COMMITTED TO SOCIETY Fulfilling its promise to keep citizens company through entertainment, Mediaset España has assumed the commitment to take advantage of its leadership in the Spanish audio-visual market to address social and environmental issues that concern and involve society, thus contributing to disseminate, raise awareness and sensitise through its digital channels and platforms. GENDER EQUALITY GOT TALENT EL PROGRAMA DE ANA ROSA – The association Generando Igualdad presented a song to – Research to show the different responses offered by speak out against gender violence, showing the reality of a companies when they receive the same CV from a man group of women who want to support others who are in the and a woman, confirming the existence os employment same situation. discrimination by age and sex. – To the rhythm of the voice-over of Alejandra Martínez de – International Girls’ Day: the programme joined the initiative Miguel’s poem, composed of fragments of different feminist promoted by the United Nations to give visibility to the main songs, a dance group wanted to convey to the audience a problems faced by girls, particularly in countries in conflict message of female empowerment. where their situation is more delicate. Ana Rosa, as well as other well-known figures in Spanish society, echoed the SEÑORAS DEL (H)AMPA initiative promoted by the NGO Plan Internacional in the Congress of Deputies, and put her own requests in a brief Black comedy that empowers middle class women and case and sent them to the Congress of Deputies. where the characters are women from different generations. – International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women: the programme covered protests and rallies in Spanish cities such as Madrid, one of the largest. The programme’s debate highlighted the reality that continues to threaten women with data on victims, reflecting on this and analysing the position of political parties, trying to find possible solutions going forward. ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 117 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT SALVAME-Section “Con M de Mujer” TODO ES MENTIRA RESPONSIBLE FOR HOUSEHOLD SHOPPING On a weekly basis, Geles Hornedo analysed expressions and – Based on its own concept, where the presenters and Mediaset España presented to the market, through the behaviour of the programme’s collaborators that could be regular collaborators practically have an equal relationship, claim ‘Almas de casa’ (souls of the house), the company’s discriminatory; the patriarchal subconscious was addressed the program addressed issues such as the salary gap, on decision to eliminate the obsolete stereotype of ‘housewife’ and data from the CIS revealed that only 2 out of 10 men Women’s Day, claiming equality, respect, freedom and from the Group’s commercial policy, inviting all agents in the carry out domestic tasks and data from FEDEA showed commitment of all citizens in the awareness of the role that advertising sector to use a new target called ‘Responsible for that women spend two and a half hours more than men on women must play in society. Household Shopping’, which is much broader, more qualitative domestic work, unpaid work. and representative of the diversity of today’s households and – International Day for the Elimination of Violence against types of family. The economic, social and cultural evolution MUJERES AL PODER Women: the programme joined the dissemination of of Spain in recent decades has led to substantial changes scheduled events and the reactions of political parties. in Spanish households with the proliferation of new family Docureality that showed the day to day trajectory of a group models, and has generated a major change in a target of of brave and inspiring women who with effort and dedication AMORES QUE DUELEN significant importance for advertisers. This initiative has been have managed to carry out their dreams. adopted by Kantar Media. The programme addressed gender-based violence through VOLANDO VOY testimony and recreation of real cases; stories told in the first person by the victims themselves, their friends, family The programme addressed the life stories of women who play members, medical staff and members of the police, to raise an important role in rural environments. awareness of the importance of f ighting gender-based violence. The programme was supported by associations working to help victims, including the Centro de Recuperación Integral (CARRMM), the Asociación Somos +, the Asociación STOP Violencia de Genero Digital (STOP Digital Gender Violence Association) and the Asociación de Mujeres para la Salud (Women’s Health Association). ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 118 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT INTERNATIONAL WOMEN’S DAY ON CUATRO AL DÍA, weekend MEDIASET ESPAÑA’S CHANNELS The programme offered several interviews with different women to find out their opinion about 8M, the impact and For the second time in history, a feminist strike has given way its causes: to protests in every corner of Spain, with purple being the predominant colour representing this initiative. “We must demand what feminism implies, which is equality”, Arantxa Echevarría (film director) EL PROGRAMA DE ANA ROSA “I think in the end there is no equality. In many sports there The programme offered an in-depth analysis of women isn’t. That’s why there are many sportswomen who claim that, in the employment market, addressing data on how because they have experienced it in real life”, Lydia Valentín unemployment affects the female gender, the wage gap, (sportswoman) precarious work, the number of women occupying chairman positions in top companies or the number of female deputies “We take three little steps forward but then we take two steps and senators. The programme connected with the reporters backwards”, Angela Ponce (model) that were sent to the protests held in the capital and other towns in Spain, providing coverage during the morning of the “To me, feminism is synonymous with equality. It’s the fight various events. The programme also featured accounts from for equal rights for men and women,” Rozalén (singer) the Madrid Women’s Football Club players Tacón and other stories of integration, such as that of Asunción, who told how “It is important to keep sending the message that we are women were integrated into the Security Corps. there”, Montserrat Domínguez (journalist) CUATRO AL DÍA “The most powerful positions are mostly occupied by men,” Maria A. Blasco (CNIO Manager) Carme Chaparro began the programme by referring to International Women’s Day and the different events related to “I think we can talk about a glass ceiling. I’m not sure if it’s 8M, with live connections to the demonstrations in different a glass ceiling imposed on women from outside, or that we Spanish cities and proposing an analysis of the political as women also impose it on ourselves by creating barriers perspective of 8M, the wage gap, statistics on gender violence or feeling limited, or that we don’t believe enough in our and other relevant issues. abilities to achieve what we want”, Ángeles Santamaría (CEO of Iberdrola España) “Violence against women must be stopped, from small acts to very serious ones. It doesn’t make sense that women can still be seen as objects by certain sectors of men”, Manuela Carmena (former mayor of Madrid) “We as women are also chauvinists. We women have to free ourselves from this too. I have lived in a terribly chauvinistic world and everything has been very hard”, Rosa Montero (writer). ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 119 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT YA ES MEDIODÍA DEPORTES CUATRO The programme offered coverage of the protests that took The sports news reported the stories of sportsmen and place in Spain’s cities, with live connections to Madrid, women who fought for equality in sport, such as Alhambra Barcelona, Seville, Bilbao and Valencia. It also offered an Nievas, international Rugby referee; Ana Carrasco, World analysis of the huge absence of women in positions of Supersport 300 champion and Irene López, football world responsibility in Spain, the presence of women in Congress champion. Manu Carreño recalled, in pictures, the event held and the Senate, and the fact that there has not yet been a the day before in Barcelona where the players of the Terrassa female president of the Government or the Supreme Court. women’s team were honoured with the Gender Equality Award. SÁLVAME TODO ES MENTIRA The presenter joined the partial strike to participate in the International Women’s Day and the programme covered the On set, Marta Flich and Elsa Ruiz led the programme protests through different live broadcasts. providing data on the wage gap, gender violence, sexual harassment, etc. “Feminism is a meeting point for sharing, it EL CONCURSO DEL AÑO is and must be inclusive, not exclusive”. The programme also broadcasted the Plaza del Mueso Reina Sofia where Spanish Women were the main protagonists of this programme: female journalists met to protest the inequalities. Raquel, a climber and the first Spanish woman to cross the Himalayas accompanied by a Sherpa woman; Esthera CAZAMARIPOSAS boxing trainer, the first professional boxer in the history of Spain; Saraa record holder in Dakar as the first woman to A special edition of the programme, that had two big purple compete without assistance in the motorcycle category and ribbons on the set and two men presenting the programme, Amayaan Olympic basketball player. highlighting the lack of women on that day; “We want you to notice that they are not here”. In addition, the two presenters claimed that feminism must be lived every day. ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 120 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT DIVERSITY GOT TALENT The programme has become a showcase for art and talent, – Laura has suffered from retinitis pigmentosa since birth, a but it has also bacome a platform to demand rights, to ask for disease that only allows her to see what is in front of her and equality among people and to end all kinds of discrimination. not what is around her. However, this has not prevented her from doing what she loves: pole dancing. Performing this – Ismailah, a young boy from the Canary Islands whose elegant and risky exercise with a eye mask and following disability, caused by heart problems when he was a child, her coach’s instructions, she demonstrated that limits are has not prevented him from dedicating himself to the world not an impediment for doing what you want. of show business. – Angel and Luisa, a dance couple both affected by polio, – José Luis, from the Dominican Republic, a dancer and demonstrated that dancing in a wheelchair is possible and gymnast since he was 16, lost his leg in a motorcycle that “you don’t need legs to dance, or feet to fly”. accident. Through music, the artist demonstrated that there are no limits when you want to achieve something. – Rosa, a singer known as ‘La niña del tupé’ (The girl with the toupee), performed a version of the song ‘Halelluyah’, telling – The choir members of “Coro de les veus de la memoria”, her own story, telling how difficult it was for her to accept all aged between 50 and 90 years old, all of them with her sexual orientation and sending an important message Alzheimer’s disease, performed “Mamma Mia”, brining in favour of equality for LGBT people. visibility to the disease, and also a lesson in life and struggle for those who suffer with it. ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 121 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT EL PROGRAMA DE ANA ROSA LOS GIPSY KINGS – R are Disease Day: the programme analysed the The programme wanted to give visibility to the gypsy ethnic Government’s proposal for children with disabilities to study group, to their cultural traditions and customs, in order in ordinary schools, which would mean closing down the to break down barriers and prejudices. Furthermore, the specialised schools in 10 years’ time. A measure that does programme wanted to emphasize the importance of gypsy not take into account the opinion of many families, who women in their own environment and how they manage to be consider special schools a necessity. independent in spite of certain conditions. Two of the families are led by women and in both case they demonstrated how – 100,000 people with intellectual disabilities were able to their sucess at work was down to them. vote for the first time in the April 2019 elections thanks to an amendment to the Election Act. The programme EL CONCURSO DEL AÑO dedicated a morning to people with disabilities to show their satisfaction. To mark the International Week of people with hearing disabilities, the president of the Asociación de Personas – World Meningitis Day: first cause of death by infection in Sordas de Almansa (“Association of Deaf People of Almansa”) children and adolescents, the programme brought the appeared on the programme, with the aim of making this disease closer to the audience through different testimonies. group visible and promoting sign language. “I was moved because when I entered, everyone was applauding in my – World Day Against Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS): the language”. programme wanted to inform viewers and raise awareness about a disease for which no cure has been found, sharing FIRST DATES testimonies from those who suffer from it and also from those who are dedicated to improving the living conditions Dating diversity is part of the DNA of the programme, where of those affected and their families. more than 10,000 singles came through the restaurant’s doors with the desire to find a partner. In this respect, ‘First Dates’ has VIVA LA VIDA always been a space that is open to different forms of personal relationships in which special importance has been given to World Down Syndrome Day: the programme presented the dates that promote inclusion. Single people with hearing or “La suerte de tenerte” (“Lucky to have you”) campaign, which visual impairment, autism, Down’s syndrome or Asperger’s aims to dispel the myths about this syndrome and bring it syndrome have come to the restaurant searching for love. closer to the audience. ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 122 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT ENVIRONMENT/ CLIMATE CHANGE EL PROGRAMA DE ANA ROSA YA ES MEDIODÍA – Dead f ish in the Mar Menor. The programme visited – Gota fría (the name given locally to the heavy autumn the beaches most affected by the ecological disaster rainfall) in August and September. The programme joined and analysed the impact it has caused on Cartagena’s the concern for climate change and its possible influence on countryside, which collects rainwater and dumps natural disasters, showing the catastrophe produced in the agricultural chemicals into the Mar Menor, highlighting the affected areas, the material and human damage that will need for joint action to tackle the problem that affects the take a long time to recover, and insisting on the importance whole region. of respecting the environment, recycling and limiting the use of plastics, among others. – The future of Venice. The programme reported from the streets of the city on how it was gradually getting back to – Cimate Summit in Madrid. The programme carried out daily normal after what was its worst week in its history since coverage with live broadcasts, interviews and debates with 1872, as a result of high tides. collaborators. – What can I do for the environment? The programme dealt with what citizens can do to fight climate change, through a report and a debate on the different measures to combat environmental degradation, reduce carbon dioxide, methane or nitrous oxide. – Electric mobility for the future. On the eve of the United Nations Climate Change Conference, the programme joined the “Moving for Climate” campaign and the reporter Marina Ribel rode 100 km on an electric bicycle, to check the cities’ adaptation to these alternative means of transport and to show the benefits they bring in terms of preserving the environment. – Cimate Summit in Madrid. The programme carried out a daily follow-up with reports, interviews and round table discussions with collaborators, addressing, among others, the impacts of climate change, effects and consequences, proposals to combat it and the “Teachers for future” initiative. ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 123 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT VOLANDO VOY EN EL PUNTO DE MIRA One of the main objectives of the programme is to – Natural disasters: melting glaciers or torrential rains. Expert promote values such as environmental protection and the meteorologists, physicists and geologists gave their point of development of rural areas, as demonstrated by Jesús Calleja view in the programme and analysed the causes and serious in each episode. consequences of these extreme weather events. – In the Laciana Valley (Leon). Jesús Calleja, in addition to – Boro Barber travelled to Greenland to show viewers how the highlighting the natural beauty and the variety of vegetation glaciers were melting, an almost unstoppable phenomenon in the area, he also explained the history of coal mining in that is causing the sea level to rise and even threatening to the region through abandoned buildings. make coastal cities disappear. – In Cap de Creus (Girona). An area with a sea bed that is very – Veronica Dulanto accompanied the Guardia Civil on their rich in fauna and flora. The final objective of the programme tour of the Murcian town of Los Alcazares, devastated by was aimed at disseminating the RESCAP project intended torrential rain, one of Spain’s biggest natural disasters. to preserve the gorgonia, an animal that is fundamental to the regeneration of the marine habitat and which is TODO ES MENTIRA disappearing due to climate change, plastic waste and accidental fishing. In addition, the importance of caring for – Climate Summit in Madrid. The programme provided daily the oceans and preventing waste from reaching the sea was coverage with interviewing politicians and leaders and addressed during the programme. discussing the summits development with the programme’s collaborators. – I n Comarcas, located in the North of Granada. The programme visited a site of exceptional geological, palaeontological and archaeological value, which aspires to be recognised as a Geopark by UNESCO. ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 124 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT CUATRO AL DÍA The programme inaugurated the “Comando Cazaplástico” (“Plastic Hunting Commando”) section, initiating an important campaign where three reporters travel all over Spain to bring visibility to the excessive consumption of plastic that is contaminating the planet, encouraging the audience to take part in the project, through citizen collaboration. – International Day Without Plastic Bags. The programme offered information on the consumption of plastic bags by Spaniards: 230 a year per person, which take approximately 500 years to degrade, and just 10% of those used are being recycled. – Climate summit in Madrid. The programme followed the event daily with live broadcasts of everything that happened at Cop 25, interviews and reports, opening up a debate among the collaborators on the significance of the summit for the improvement of life on the planet, its results and the commitments reached. INFORME ANUAL CORPORATIVO 2019 125 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT BOING In 2019, the children’s channel renewed its educational advice for the youngest members of the household, emphasising support for the environment through recommendations on caring for the planet, recycling or healthy eating. RIO SALVAJE – The programme premiered its third season at the same time as the United Nations Climate Change Conference in Madrid, starting with its first installment in Tenerife, where Kike Calleja spoke out about the problem of plastic and waste being dumped into the sea. He also presented the Neotropical Foundation’s work towards saving pelagic turtles affected by such waste; he also accompanied the Tonina Foundation in sighting, tagging and monitoring the angel shark, one of the species that is critically at risk of extinction, and has one of its few stable populations in Tenerife. – The adventurer visited the Pozo Azul de Covanera (Burgos), entering the longest underground river in the world to practice speleodiving. – The Lagunas de Ruidera in Albacete, León and Cabo de Palos (Murcia) were locations where the adventurer flew close to large birds, lived up close to the spawning of trout in winter and revealed the secrets of traditional fishing from León, compiled in one of the oldest existing manuscripts on this art. ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 126 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT Mediaset España’s news programmes have also served as a loudspeaker to raise awareness of environmental issues and encourage the adoption of healthier habits. Thus, they have addressed, among others, the following issues: SPECIAL COVERAGE COP 25 Special coverage to raise awareness of the various Daily coverage of the event on all news programmes environmental issues affecting the planet: International Day (morning, midday, afternoon and evening), reporting on for the Preservation of the Ozone Layer; Earth Day; Earth the participation of indigenous communities and their Hour; No Plastic Bags Day. claims, data on extreme weather events, the agreement of minimums and the postponement of regulation for FRIDAYS UNDER THE SUN, AGAINST CLIMATE CHANGE carbon markets and the dissemination of the Government’s campaign against climate change “It’s Time to Act”, inter alia. Students rallied in front of Congress, one of the 10 protests organised in Spain, as a cry of warning against climate TEXTILE CONSUMPTION change, people left their classrooms to take to the streets to demand measures. It also reported on the second most environmentally damaging industry on the planet, addressing the problem WORLD CLIMATE STRIKE and urging citizens that “it is time to change their thinking”. All the news programmes focused on distributing information on climate change to raise awareness of the impacts and its possible dangers: the melting of the Arctic ice cap and the impact on sea levels, with the consequent disappearance of regions; increasingly abrupt temperature changes; fires, floods, typhoons and hurricanes that are more and virulent year after year; loss of oxygen in the oceans; pollution generated by the combustion of coal boilers, were just some of the topics addressed. ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 127 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT PLASTIC WASTE OTHER NEWS PROGRAMME COVERAGES Plastic waste and the impact on the environment and human Desertification of previously fertile areas in Spain; melting beings: glaciers in the Arctic and their impact on sea levels and wildlife; fires in the Amazon; solar self-consumption; loss of – Benjamin Von Wong, an artist who has been creating art biodiversity; the future of cars; the progressive disappearance from recycling for years, he turned 168,000 straws collected of bees due to the use of pesticides in agriculture; palm oil from the bottom of the sea by volunteers, a symbol of and its link to deforestation and its impact on orangutans; pollution, into a 3-metre high sculpture. sustainability in food; whaling in Japan and whale rescue in the United States; the plague of starfish in the Ría de (estuary – Microplastics and the seas. 11 kilometers below the surface, of) Pontevedra ; the Premios Fronteras del Conocimiento plastic remains are found in living beings and the situation (Frontiers of Knowledge Awards) granted by the BBVA is not improving on the surface. It is estimated that in 2050 Foundation, in relation to Climate Change, to Anny Cazenave, 99 percent of sea bird species will have plastic in their John Church and Jonathan Gregory for pioneering spatial stomachs due to direct ingestion, and some of this waste observations of the sea and raising awareness of rising sea will pass into the food chain. It also echoed the death of levels and the great impact of human activity; the water many marine animals trapped by garbage. footprint caused by food being thrown away, out of date or spoiled and what this has meant for water requirements; the – Plastic collection on beaches in La Coruña, Getxo, Zumaia, dumping of faecal water into the sea and the lack of water Tarragona, among others. treatment plants. AIR POLLUTION Air pollution, which could be causing twice as many deaths per year in Europe as previously thought and has become a threat, is responsible for respiratory diseases. The report of the Fourth United Nations Environment Assembly was also broadcasted, warning of the need for an urgent change of course to save the earth. ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 128 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT DEBATE AND CRITICAL THOUGHT Mediaset España offered its television slots to the political parties, in order to bring the the presidential candidates informativostelecinco.com electoral proposals closer to the viewers, under the same conditions. In this sense, Ana Rosa carried out interviews with The digital news addressed disinformation in various special the candidates and premiered sections such as “Qué hay de coverage: lo mío” (what about me?) or “Érase una vez en Moncloa” (once upon a time in Moncloa) where the politicians who accepted – Fake News: a weapon of mass destruction that threatens the invitation to answer questions from citizens. In turn, the our democracy, addressed the impacts of (dis)information Group’s news programmes have offered special slots for at the click of a button. reporting on the General Elections each time they were held, as well as special interviews with government candidates. – The way your mind deceives you: why fake news succeeds, addressed how cognitive biases distort reality and influence TODO ES MENTIRA not only how people react to certain circumstances, but also their decision making. One of the programme’s foundations, as well as reflecting current events in a humorous way, is that of denying fake – Mediocracy: why the world seems to have become so news stories that come out at dizzying speed, in a society with stupid, addressing the “new reality” brought about by too many stimuli and little time to contrast the information. globalisation, where social networks bring about change For this reason, the programme dedicated part of its content even in government elections. to dismantling “half truths or shameless lies” with data and reliable testimonies, giving those responsible the opportunity to correct or rectify. EN EL PUNTO DE MIRA The aim of the programme is to report situations of deception, f raud, non-compliance with legislation, among others, through reports, and expert testimony and detailed data on the situations under investigation. ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 129 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT The Group’s digital platforms have served not only to entertain, but also to disseminate social and environmental issues concerning society. GENDER AND DIVERSITY EQUALITY ENVIRONMENT Tomorrow is approaching: a study shows the climate of cities in 2050 and it is scary Life against climate change: this is how our habits are being conditioned Sexism in the gaming world: several players tell of unequal 3 billion birds have died in the United States and Canada treatment for being a woman in the gaming world Plastic Hunters Commando, a ‘Cuatro al día’ initiative since 1970 Herstory, the book about things that have been ignored about – The starting signal in the fight against the indiscriminate How much do you know about the world you live in? women throughout history use of plastic The UN warns: the planet has activated its warning signal and If you can’t fight Valentine’s Day, join it: how to give it a feminist – Heirs of the ‘Plastic Hunters Commando’: the future is we must act now to save it spin with the children Models that assess the consequences of climate change do For International Girls’ Day, list of the world’s most influential – Izakai, the sculpture made of plastic will become a video not transfer the severity of this phenomenon adolescents. game The average temperature rises twice as much in Spain as in World Wetlands Day the rest of the world – The reasons for why World Wetlands Day exists This is how the climate threatens the health of Spaniards: the – Five environmental associations join forces to demand consequences can be deadly better protection of wetlands in Spain Climate change could cost hundreds of companies almost a trillion dollars From prejudice to pride: “My father was one of the first to stay – We’re taking out the enemy of climate change: in one The world’s roof is heating up fast home while my mother worked” century, half of it has been lost Selfi tourism or how to end the planet by travelling Menopause and the changes it brings Nuclear tourism grows at the ghostly Chernobyl plant International Day for the Preservation of the Ozone Layer World Water Day Five sentences from Greta Thunberg’s speech that directly Wasting food means wasting a bathtub full of water The economy of the future wants more women affect your life The Amazon, in danger: it loses 350 square kilometers of Women work ten years longer than men to earn the same fresh surface water a year The gender gap in work-life balance Lake Chad is being swallowed up by the Sahara Women deserve a ten, but the football players’ collective World Wetlands Day Landscapes that your grandchildren will have to see in agreement must be shown the red card The five things you need to know about wetlands if you pictures if the sea level really rises by one metre Are maternity and paternity leave the same? really believe in climate change Ten phenomena caused by climate change that are already The great weapon to defeat climate change is natural and The barriers and obstacles that make everyday life hell for visible in Spain disabled people we are forgetting it Natalia’s example that leaves other children with their mouths Doñana in the spotlight: EU demands Spain to take care of it wide open International Day without plastic bags A student with 92% disability defends her Graduation Thesis Living without plastics after nine years of training Limit 2050: Oceans drown in plastic and fish die from the A company from Malaga starts tattooing food information rubbish dumped on its skin to fight against plastic `Greta generation’: young people take to the streets on a That’s Lemon, the film that raises awareness of the plastic historic day in the fight against climate change problem The main capitals of the world are filled with huge marches A study demonstrates that people also eat plastic in defense of the planet The double challenge of air pollution: it affects health and climate The ground zero of global warming is the Mediterranean: the day to day can be dramatic Airpocalypse, plagues, natural disasters: Earth will take revenge if we don’t stop climate change You can access this news by clicking on each link ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 130 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT WORLD TELEVISION DAY “There are millions of stories waiting to be discovered. Television brings us together. It changes your perception of the world. It’s the window of life. Whenever you want, wherever you are. The best company. We like television” Mediaset España joins the celebration of World Television Day once again, an initiative created in 1996 by the United Nations, which in 2019 is dedicated to the wide variety of television formats present on the planet, a premium content available in a safe environment for consumption wherever and whenever the viewer wants. In this regard, throughout that day the company offered in its linear and digital media, its own version of the international spot created to commemorate this action. The spot highlights the diversity of formats and content as one of the great hallmarks of Mediaset España’s programming model, as well as an essential way to entertain, inform and inspire viewers around the world. ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 131 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT GENERATED AND DISTRIBUTED Operating costs SOCIAL VALUE Staff salaries €101,136 Suppliers The Mediaset España Group intends to measure and report on the real value contribution to the company in which it operates, through the cash flow generated and distributed by the €208,476 company. Service suppliers €178,392 Taxes, fees and social security €101,011 TV and internet Audio-visual Rights Advertising Services Provision of TV services €173,104 €876,495 €49,458 Investments in technology €10,995 Financial expenses Generated economic value €800 €950,327 Distributed economic value Other €776,146 Advertising Services Financial Assets Revenues €3,640 €4,086 Donations Cinema €183 €16,648 RETAINED VALUE External partners €2,049 DATA IN THOUSANDS € €174,181 Note: Generated, distributed and retained value obtained from the 2019 consolidated income statement. The contribution of the Company through the assignment of advertising slots supporting social causes, which, in 2019 were valued at € 7,537 thousand has not been considered. ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 132 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT CONTENT ACCESSIBILITY Content accessibility is a fundamental aspect of the media’s Therefore, year after year Mediaset España maintains its In this regard, it broadcasted many series, films and responsibility. commitment to making its programmes available to programmes with subtitles, translated into sign language or people with visual or hearing impairments, as a means of with audio descriptions. social and cultural integration for these groups. Live programmes Hours of accesible content broadcasted in 2019 6,030 Hrs. subtitled ANIMATION GAME SHOWS DOCU-REALITY SPORT EVENTS MAGAZINES REALITY-SHOW TALK-SHOW CINEMA DATING SPORTS SPECIALS SHOWS NEWS MUSICALS REPORTS SERIES ZAPPING SUBTITLED 5615:17:08 2590:01:36 1857:43:44 306:25:26 331:32:13 8277:09:41 11:26:14 179:17:42 26:14:45 1127:32:02 3763:45:58 1487:43:18 564:02:35 345:14:43 15378:25:50 703:24:34 1004:01:43 AUDIO DESCRIPTION 132:53:15 400:06:34 950:01:36 943:34:35 SIGN LANGUAGE 132:53:15 400:06:34 943:34:35 Hours of subtitled content Hours of content in sign language Hours of content with audio description 6,771 113 113 6,423 5,910 450 450 219 219 5,396 5,878 43,569 167 1,476 118 167 2,426 1,068 6,920 6,268 273 132 273 132 ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 133 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT ASSIGNMENT OF ADVERTISING SPACE Mediaset España’s commitment to the distribution of values associated with certain projects or non-profit institutions with which it collaborates has become effective, once again, not only through the programming broadcasted, but also by the free assignment of advertising space. Assignment of advertising space in 2019 (in thousands of €) TOTAL BY CAMPAIGN 7,537 Fundación AUTOCONTROL Asociación Wing for Esclerosis Múltiple Life World Juegoterapia 790 España 51 86 88 3,586 933 NGO Social Action Fundació Josep Fundación Platform (POAS) Carreras Ayuda contra la Drogadicción 136 223 1,388 TOTAL BY CHANNEL 12 MESES Confederación Fundación Asociación #JUGAR ASPACE Reina Sofía Síndrome de Down 3,679 44 723 328 762 2,257 ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 134 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT SOCIAL ACTION CAMPAIGNS 12 MESES, THE REFERENCE SOCIAL COMMUNICATION PROJECT IN THE MEDIA Mediaset España’s social communication project 12 Meses In Spain, children’s playing age has fallen in recent years due continues, for another year, as a reference in the Spanish to, among other things, the lack of time as result of increased audio-visual market, with a large number of awards received. extra-curricular activities and homework, the shortage of The 12 Meses’ awareness-raising work carried out during public spaces available for play or the abuse of technology. the year has focused on the following axes: the promotion of equality between men and women and the protection Playing enhances creativity and imagination, awakens of children, ensuring compliance with one of the universal intelligence and fosters emotional relationships. For these rights of the child: the right to play. reasons, 12 Meses has focused its efforts on valuing children’s play, which is necessary for the complete development of the child. “Playing is a very serious matter” is the campaign’s WOMEN AT WORK, WORK THAT IS MAKING claim, where the importance of letting children play like HISTORY children is emphasised. The campaign “Women making history”, exclusively developed The pieces have been broadcast on all Mediaset España for the web environment and social networks, was created channels during all time slots, on the Group’s websites, the with the aim of recognising women’s work who, through their 12 Meses social networks and also on the Spanish broadcast professions, have contributed enormously in many different circuit of the Iwall screens marketed by Publiespaña. In turn, fields such as cultural, social or political,to name just few. the campaign’s spots and bumpers have been subtitled, The initiative, carried out during the Women’s Day celebration with the aim of becoming an inclusive message to reach all (March 8th), has highlighted the stories of women such viewers. as the artist Lita Cabellut, the scientist Margarita Salas, the philosopher María Zambrano or the politician Clara Presenters have contributed, serving as a loudspeaker for the Campoamor, among many others, to recognise the impact campaign, amplifying the message through social networks. their work has had on history. Also, the different programmes and news spaces have been structured with informative content including interviews with professors, psychologists and pedagogues, to provide PLAYING IS A VERY SERIOUS MATTER information on the situation and importance of this children’s Playing is a right recognised by the Universal Declaration of right. the Rights of the Child (article 31). It is a universal right equal to the child’s right to education, housing, family, health, right The conceptualisation, design, production and development not to work etc. The United Nations Committee on the Rights of the idea has been carried out by the 12 Meses creative team, of the Child, in its General Comment No 17, dated April 17, whose main objective has been to play with the viewer. Playing 2013, has, however, warned of the limited support it receives with contradiction by showing an object and affirming at the from the Member States and has encouraged the promotion same time that it is not that object; as the surrealist painter of said right, to promote awareness of it through research Magritte did with his famous painting “this is not a pipe”. and the generation of greater social sensitivity towards it. ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 135 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT Based on the fact that the world of children’s imagination Furthermore, during 2019, different social communication is magical and everything is possible: a tricycle becomes a campaigns have been carried out in collaboration with NGOs, racing car, a wooden horse becomes an impressive horse such as the sponsorship of the Fundación StopSanfilippo’s and a teddy bear becomes the most amusing friend. The charity race for the eighth consecutive year. This race is spots contain colourful and cheerful graphic elements that aimed at raising funds to promote research on the rare only appear when the viewer has the privilege of seeing the disease Sanfilippo. The race, which is 100% charitable, has world through the little ones’ eyes. This resource introduces gathered more than 16,000 runners throughout all its the viewer to a world full of creativity in which toys come events. Support for this action is part of Mediaset España’s to life, representing the experience and emotions that all commitment to supporting social organisations working in children have when they play. the neighbourhood where the company is located. The campaign’s claim “playing is a very serious matter” also Also, the Food Bank’s sponsorship was renewed for the sixth intends to provoke contradiction and change adults’ usual consecutive year, in order to create the “Avenida Mediaset perception on the value of play, highlighting the phrase “let España” in its facilities, with the aim of contributing to the children play like children” as a simple recommendation social work carried out by this organisation, which consists full of common sense, because free play is a fundamental of delivering food to soup kitchens, NGOs, foster homes, etc. element in children’s development. located in the Community of Madrid. As allies of this campaign, 12 Meses has counted on the Also, a collaboration agreement has been signed with the collaboration of the Children’s Play Observatory, the only Fundación Reina Sofía with the undertaking by Mediaset organisation in Spain carrying out studies and research of España to broadcast its “Lemon” campaign, to promote the scientific interest on the value of play, as well as promoting importance of eliminating plastics from our oceans. the creation of indicators to measure children’s play levels. The Internal communication has gone hand in hand with the external communication of the campaign. In this context, an action has been carried out with all the company’s employees, where they were given a break in the working day and invited to play with the campaign’s symbolic element: the yo-yo. This interactive action helped to raise awareness among employees and inform them on the importance of playing, but it also served to bring out the child in us all, because at Mediaset España, playing is a very serious matter. Through this campaign, Mediaset España has become the largest defender of the universal right to play, impacting almost the entire population with its message, reaching out to 31.8 miliion viewers through television broadcasts, 3.4 million online impressions, more than 681. 000 people through social networks, an estimated impact of between 28-30MM through the broadcast on Iwall screens and 1.7million people by sending informative newsletters to the databases of 12 Meses Mediaset España and the Children’s Play Observatory . ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 136 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT GLOBAL COMPACT COMPLIANCE HUMAN RIGHTS EMPLOYMENT STANDARDS ENVIRONMENTAL ANTICORRUPTION PRINCIPLE 1: Companies must support PRINCIPLE 7: Companies should maintain PRINCIPLE 10: Companies must work and respect the protection of fundamental PRINCIPLE 3: Companies must support the a preventive approach that favours the against corruption in all its forms, including human rights, internationally recognised, freedom of association and the effective environment. extortion and bribery. within their area of influence. recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Managed by Mediaset España: Managed by Mediaset España: Managed by Mediaset España: Managed by Mediaset España: Environmental Performance Risk Management System Content Management Team management Team Management PRINCIPLE 8: Companies should Supply Chain Management PRINCIPLE 4: Companies should support encourage initiatives that promote greater the elimination of all forms of forced or environmental responsibility. PRINCIPLE 2: Companies must ensure that coerced labour. their companies are not complicit in the Managed by Mediaset España: violation of Human Rights. Managed by Mediaset España: Environmental Performance Team Management Managed by Mediaset España: Supply Chain Management PRINCIPLE 9: Companies should promote the Content Management development and diffusion of environmentally PRINCIPLE 5: Companies should support friendly technologies. Team Management Supply Chain Management the eradication of child labour. Managed by Mediaset España: Managed by Mediaset España: Environmental Performance Team Management Supply Chain Management PRINCIPLE 6: Businesses should support the abolition of employment and occupation discrimination. Managed by Mediaset España: Team Management Supply Chain Management ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 137 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT COMMITMENT TO SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDGS) The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development is the MEDIASET ESPAÑA AND SDGS agenda that addresses the goals of the international community in the period 2016-2030 for the eradication The following SDGs are those where Mediaset España has the potential to generate the greatest positive impact. of poverty and to promote sustainable and equitable development. 2030 2030 Companies are called upon to play a fundamental role in promoting the achievement of these goals and, within this framework, Mediaset España assumes its commitment to promote this agenda. Direct Contribution Indirect contribution Main SDO for the media sector Spain’s 2030 Agenda ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 138 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT Target 3.4 Promote mental health and well-being in employees ACTIONS 2019 INDICATOR Medical service available on the company’s facilities for Users in 2019 (pg.113) all employees. Contribute to children’s well-being by supporting the Flexible working hours (pg.107) parents’ and caregivers’ well-being Full-time / part-time employees (pg.104) ■ Campaigns promoting healthy lifestyles Healthy eating programs (pg.112) ■ Work life balance measures and Available vaccines (safe, effective and of quality) Type of vaccines offered and people vaccinated (pg.112) fringe benefits ■ Occupational health and safety risk prevention Measures ■ Medical Service ■ Healthy Business Network Target 3.8 Access to safe, effective, quality and affordable medicines and vaccines ■ ISO 45001 ACTIONS 2019 INDICATOR Employees (m/f) who have access to health services available or paid for Provide accessible and affordable medical service by the company due to work-related accidents or illnesses, % by gender options to employees and their families; life insurance (p.112) and disability and permanent disability coverage. Employees (m/f) who have access to health services available or paid for by the company because of other personal health issues, % by gender (p.112) ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 139 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT Target 4.4 Increase the number of youth and adults with relevant skills for employment, decent jobs and entrepreneurship ACTIONS 2019 INDICATOR Master’s Degree in Content Creation and Audio-Visual Content Management (pg.111) Offer training programs, available and accessible to all Showrunner: Fiction Classroom (pg. 111) groups Dual Training Escuela Superior de Imagen y Sonido CES (pg.111) Workforce training hours, broken down by gender and professional category (pg.108-110) ■ Master’s Degree in Content Provide employees with incentives to develop additional Study grants (pg.110) Creation and Audio-Visual Content skills or to continue their education Hours of training (pg.109-110) Management ■ Collaboration Agreements with Internship Programs Number of grantees and interns (pg.102,104) Universities and Business Schools ■ Workforce training ■ Showrunner: Fiction Classroom Target 4.5 Eliminate gender disparities and ensure equal access to education and ■ Dual Training Escuela Superior de vocational training for vulnerable people Imagen y Sonido CES ACTIONS 2019 INDICATOR Average hours of training per employee, broken down by employment Support equal rights of men and women in accessing category and gender (pg.110) education and professional training Equal opportunities to access the Masters programme (pg.106) Provide non-discriminatory access to employee skills Equal opportunities in internship and scholarship programmes (pg.106) training, internship programmes and scholarships Ensure equal access to all company-supported Average hours of training per employee, broken down by employment education and skills training programmes category and gender (pg.110) Target 4.7 Ensure that all employees acquire the knowledge and skills needed to promote sustainable development ACTIONS 2019 INDICATOR Promote sustainable development through sustainability Sustainability actions communicated to the workforce (pg.150) actions and communicate them to the workforce. Sustainability actions communicated to the audience (pg.116-129) ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 140 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT Target 5.1 End all forms of discrimination against women Target 5.4 Recognise and value unpaid care and domestic work through the promotion of shared responsibility within the household and the family Target 5.5 Women’s full and effective participation in terms of equal opportunities for leadership at all levels ACTIONS 2019 INDICATOR Incorporate gender equality principle into policies and Code of Ethics (pg. 23) procedures Equality Plans (pg. 50, 106) ■ Collective Agreements ■ Equality Plans Include non-discrimination clauses in the code of Code of Ethics (pg. 23) ■ Fringe benefits and work life conduct balance measures Entry-level wage vs. minimum wage (pg. 155) Hours of training by gender (pg. 110) Proportion of women on the Board (pg. 8) Respect women’s rights and support their Proportion of female Managers (pg. 103) empowerment in the workplace Workforce by job category, gender, age, contract type and working hours (pg. 152) Pay Gap (pg. 155) Number of discrimination cases reported (pg.106) Offer flexible work options, opportunities for leave and Fringe benefits and work life balance measures (pg. 107) re-entry into positions of equal wage and status, to recognise unpaid work Paternity and maternity leave (pg.104) Implement gender-sensitive talent recruitment and Total number and rate of new hires by age group and gender (pg.153) retention practices and ensure equal access to training Percentage of employees who have received performance evaluation by programs job category and gender (pg.104) Management development programme exclusively for women with Give women power through specific women’s potential (pg. 106) leadership programmes Mediaset España committed to society (pg. 116-119) Review respect for gender equality within the company Annual Report on Equality in the Company (pg. 106) on a regular basis Establish a policy of zero tolerance towards all forms Code of Ethics (pg. 23) of violence in the workplace and prevent sexual Psychosocial and workplace harassment risk management procedures. harassment (pg. 50) Confidential complaints channel (pg. 51) Establish support structures to report possible incidents Number of sexual harassment cases reported (pg.1 06) of discrimination, violence or harassment Number of discrimination cases reported (pg. 106) ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 141 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT Target 8.4 Improve global resource efficiency in consumption to decouple economic growth from environmental degradation ACTIONS 2019 INDICATOR Fuel consumption of renewable and non-renewable sources (pg. 148) Energy consumption inside and outside the company (pg.148) Improve the efficiency in the use of energy, water, raw Energy intensity (pg. 145) materials and other resources Energy efficiency measures (pg. 145) Water consumption (pg. 148) ■ Collective agreements ■ Fringe benefits and and work life Materials used (pg. 148) balance measures Assess and mitigate the environmental impacts of Waste generated (pg.149) ■ Diversity and equal opportunities services Carbon footprint calculation (pg .147) ■ Training Plan Influence responsibly on consumption patterns and ■ Occupational Risk prevention Mediaset España committed to society (pg. 122-127) promote healthy and sustainable lifestyles measures ■ Generated and distributed value Target 8.5 Contribute to achieve full employment and decent work for all women and men ACTIONS 2019 INDICATOR Entry-level wage vs. minimum wage (pg. 155) Fringe benefits and work life balance measures (pg. 107) Total number and new employee hires rate (pg. 153) Offer better wages, benefits and other possible working Total number and workforce turnover rate (pg. 154) conditions Managers coming from the local community (pg. 156) Workforce by contract type (pg. 103, 152) Benefits provided to full-time employees vs part-time employees (pg. 52) Paternity and maternity leave (pg. 104) Collective Agreements (pg 48-49, 105) Protecting basic employment rights Equality plans (pg. 50-51, 106) Contribute to job creation in the community Investment in Southern Cardamom REDD+ Project (pg. 150) ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 142 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT Target 8.6 Reduce the proportion of youth not in employment, education or training ACTIONS 2019 INDICATOR Implement work-related training programmes or Number and new employee hire rate (pg. 153) collaborate with education experts to increase the Knowledge creation in the audio-visual sector and study grant or relevance of education in today’s education systems internship programs (Pg. 108-109, 111) Target 8.7 Eradicate forced labour, modern forms of slavery and eliminate child labour ACTIONS 2019 INDICATOR Code of Ethics (pg. 23) Collective Agreements (pg. 48-49, 105) Implement compliance mechanisms to eliminate Clauses in contracts made with suppliers (pg. 19, 54 y 158) forced labour, modern slavery and child labour Supervision of unerage artists (pg. 26, 41, 49 y 156) Paternity and maternity leave (pg. 43) Develop procedures to respond to incidents or suspicions of such incidents in the course of commercial Ethical mailbox (pg. 26) activities Target 8.8 Protect labour rights and promote safe working environments for all ACTIONS 2019 INDICATOR Collective Agreements (pg. 48-49, 105) Implement the commitment to employment rights, Equality plans (pg. 50-51, 106) without discrimination Percentage of employees protected by collective agreements (pg. 105) Minimum notice periods (pg. 48) Health and safety Committee (pg. 52) Introduce health and safety management systems ISO 45001 (pg. 52, 112) Types and rates of accidents and work-related illness (pg. 115) ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 143 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT Target 9.4 Upgrade infrastructure and reconvert industries to make them sustainable ACTIONS 2019 INDICATOR ■ Digital transformation in the Generated and distributed economic value (pg. 131) broadcast and dissemination of Upgrade infrastructure through innovation and Technical (pg. 131) and environmental investments (pg. 72) content investment to make them efficient and sustainable ■ Creation of in-house digital content Renewable energy (pg. 146) spaces ■ Energy efficiency Initiatives Target 17.17 Encourage and promote effective partnerships ■ Global compact ■ Climate Change Cluster ■ Transparency, Good Governance ACTIONS 2019 INDICATOR and Integrity Cluster Enter into a transparent and responsible partnership ■ Responsible Media Forum with governments, civil society and other relevant Alliances for sustainability (pg 68) ■ Community #PorElClima actors of sustainable development ■ Emergency Committee ■ Laboratory of socially responsible investment ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 144 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT Target 13.1 Strengthen resilience and adaptive capacity to climate hazards ACTIONS 2019 INDICATOR Investing in building energy efficiency Energy efficiency initiatives (pg. 145) GHG emissions scope 1,2 y 3 (pg. 147) GHG emissions intensity (pg. 147) Emission reduction initiatives (pg. 146) Reduce GHG emissions Energy consumption and sources (pg. 145, 148) ■ Responsible management of Energy intensity (pg. 145) natural resources Total fuel consumption (pg. 148) ■ Investment in energy efficiency Voluntary carbon offsetting Investment in projects reinforcing natural carbon sinks (pg. 146, 150) ■ Campaigns and disseminated environmental information Target 13.3 Improve education and awareness-raising on climate change mitigation ACTIONS 2019 INDICATOR Raising awareness and understanding of climate Environmental and programmes campaigns (pg. 122-127, 129) change among customers, employees, investors, etc. Energy efficiency (pg. 145) Strategies for corporate adaptation to climate risk Resource consumption and waste management (pg. 148-149) Collaboration with agents to promote knowledge Alliances for sustainability (pg. 68) networks on climate change ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 145 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE With respect to responsible business management, Mediaset España is committed to managing its environmental impact Environmental Priorities in a sustainable manner. It is aware that the main activity carried out by the Group, which focuses on the generation and dissemination of audio-visual content through its various Reduce the distribution platforms, generates a limited impact on the Reduce use of natural environment. Improve energy greenhouse resources and efficiency gases the generation of waste Nevertheless, in order to minimise the impact generated and maximise the opportunities derived from the improvement in environmental management, the company has been making a continuous effort for years to improve energy efficiency in its facilities, reduce greenhouse gas emmissions, natural resources consumption and waste generation. Energy efficiency main initiatives In line with this, and applying the environmental precautionary principle contained in the 1992 Rio Declaration of the United Nations on the Environment and Development, Bearing in mind that the majority of electrical consumption at the Group focuses its attention on managing its direct the facility corresponds to studio equipment, including recording, environmental footprint in terms of energy, water, waste and broadcast and post-production, as well as computer equipment travel, with the primary goal of reducing the impact of and air conditioning for computer rooms, Mediaset España carries its operations where it has operational control. out continuous management procedures to optimise energy. It has ENERGY established measures to, among others, moderate air conditioning INTENSITY 2.59 The company’s main facilities, where more than 96% of on set, limit the hours that air conditioning is used in studios, the workforce is located and where the greatest use automatically controlling temperature, and reducing lighting of natural resources occurs, are the offices and studios in during advertising breaks in live broadcasts. Lighting is another GJ/ HR OF STUDIO Fuencarral and Villaviciosa, in Madrid. important aspect, and for this reason 877 floodlights and lighting RECORDING fixtures were replaced in 2019 with more efficient, lower consumption lights on set as well as in the offices. Taken as a whole, the investments made in 2019 in equipment and facilities to improve energy efficiency at the company resulted in an estimated overall energy saving of 2,385 GJ gigajoules and 61,458 GJ ( (power consumption-electricity) a cost reduction of more than 100,000€. 23,702 Hours of studio recordings in 2019 ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 146 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT Greenhouse gas emissions Since 2009 Mediaset España has assumed the commitment Having promoted and maintained various initiatives to reduce Mediaset España reports annually on its greenhouse gas to measure and manage the greenhouse gas emissions greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions for years, Mediaset España emissions, and since 2009 has responded to the climate produced by the normal day to dat of its business. has taken a further step in its commitment to contribute to change questionnaire presented by the Carbon Disclosure the Sustainable Development Goals with a voluntary REDD+ Project. The evaluations for 2018 have recently been made Among the actions promoted by the Group to reduce its forest conservation emissions offset project. Located in the public, and Mediaset España has obtained an Ascore for its environmental footprint is the contracting of electricity southwest of Cambodia, the Cardamomo project contributes management, which places it above average overall and also with a Guarantee of Origin, which ensures that all of to the creation of employment in the community (SDG 8) and above the European average and reflects an improvement the electricity consumed during the year at its facilities the fight against deforestation (SDG 15) as it is a valuable sink of over the previous year’s score (B). comes exclusively from 100% renewable energy sources more than 3.5 million tons of CO2 (SDG 13). which respect the environment and avoid CO2 emissions and other polluting gases. As a result, all of the electric energy Thus, in 2019 it has financed the reduction of GHG emissions consumed at the Group’s office facilities, which represent equivalent to its residual emissions of scope 1+2, acquiring 90% of the total energy consumed by the Group, come carbon credits corresponding to 600 TnCO2e in said project. from renewable sources. Through this mechanism, the company has managed to reach net zero emissions from its direct operations, absorbing Also, the installation of solar panels at company facilities more emissions than those generated. This in no way replaces strengthens the company’s commitment to clean energy. the Group’s efforts to reduce these emissions each year. For instance, the headquarters at Fuencarral has 48 solar panels installed which produce an estimated 38.5 Mwh. A The group also promotes sustainable mobility among its CLIMATE employees, offering a bus service in Madrid which connects ACHANGE 2019 CDP the company (Fuencarral and Villaviciosa) offices with the SCORE REPORT B Atrain and metro stations for extended hours as a way Bto incentivise greater use of public transportation and C thereby help limit the polluting gases that arisie from AVERAGE FOR THE SECTOR: C commuting. CAVERAGE IN EUROPE: C GLOBAL AVERAGE: C D DANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 147 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT In 2019, Scope 1 and 2 total greenhouse gas emissions increased by 0.8% with respect to the previous year, mainly due to the increase of emissions associated with Other contaminating emissions (Tn) refrigerant gas refills, that could not be offset by the reductions in emissions associated with the company’s own equipment and vehicles. 2017 2018 2019 On the other hand, Scope 3 indirect emissions were reduced by 39% mainly due to an optimisation in the purchase of raw materials and services and an improvement SOx 0.257 0.037 0.013 in the quality of the data used. With regard to the data used, the number of overnight stays per country has been included for hotel stays; for air transport, the NOx 2.140 0.774 0.769 travel class has been included; and for transport to/from work, the estimated employees traveling from all Group facilities has been included, whereas until 2018 Particless 0.165 0.061 0.069 only travel in Madrid was considered. CO 7.101 0.302 0.337 COVNM 0.801 0.050 0.050 Note: Although the emissions described above do not have a material or significant impact given the Company’s activity, the Company makes its best estimate. Note: The data on NOx, SOx and other significant atmosphere emissions are those related to direct consumption of energy (boilers), fuel used in company GHG Emissions Inventory (Tn CO2 equivalent) vehicles and electricity consumed. Scope 1: Direct Emissions Scope 2: Indirect Emissions AIR OWN OR CONDITIONING COMPANY VEHICLES1 MARKET BASED2 CONTROLLED AND REFRIGERATING EQUIPMENT 0 GAS REFILLS 275.61 69.94 2018: 101.30 179.67 2018:0 GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS INTENSITY 2018: 294.11 2017: 242.82 2017: 285.25 2018: 125.77 2017: 565.43 2017: 0 1.60 TOTAL SCOPE 1+2+3 TOTAL: 525.22 TOTAL: 0 Notes 98,400 (1) As of 2018, Directors renting vehicles will be considered within Scope 3, since they are part of their variable remuneration. TN CO2E (2) Mediaset España does not have scope 2 emissions, since it purchases 100% of its electric power with a certificate of renewable origin. 98,400 Tn emissions CO2e 61,320 HR of broadcasting in 2019 Scope 3: Other Indirect Emissions WORKFORCE BUSINESS TRIPS BUSINESS TRIPS AIR TRAVEL BUSINESS TRIPSOTHER EMISSIONS OTHER EMISSIONS TRAIN TRANSPORT BUSINESS TRIPS IN LAND TRAVEL TO/FROM WORK HOTEL STAYS4 (UPSTREAM)2 9.49 (DOWNSTREAM)3 495.62 1,557.34 51.5 35,979.19 TRANSPORT1 259.03 59,522.23 2018: 364.81 2018: 21.64 2018: 1,204.68 2018: 188.97 2018: 90,613.60 2017: 25 2018: 68,764.84 2017: 400.06 2018: 464.43 2017: 1,335.16 2017: 587.62 2017: 104,786.68 2017: 75,820.20 TOTAL: 97,874.78 (1 ))Since 2018, the emissions generated by the Managers’ renting vehicles considered in previous years within Scope 1 are included. (2) It includes upstream emissions outside the organisation, calculated according to the Scope 3 categories of the GHG Protocol. It includes emissions associated with suppliers, acquisition of capital assets; energy emissions not incorporated in the scope 1 and 2 footprints; transportation services paid for by the company; company waste; and assets leased by Mediaset. The main emissions in 2019 corresponded to those associated with the purchase of goods and services. (3) It includes downstream emissions outside the organisation, calculated according to the Scope 3 categories of the GHG Protocol. It includes emissions associated with the use of products sold by Mediaset and the company’s investments in audio-visual rights and cinema. Both categories represent approximately 60% of Scope 3 emissions in 2019. (4) Until 2018 CEDA emissions factors were used to calculate emissions; in 2019 DEFRA emission factors were use. ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 148 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT Resource consumption and waste generation Resource consumption for 2019 has generally maintained Natural gas used for cooking and to heat the facilities, saw a the reduction pattern of previous years. decrease, due to the closure of the kitchens for a few weeks, for maintenance, as well as less need for heating due to an Electricity consumption for 2019 increased by 4% while increase in temperatures. studio recording hours increased by 6%, which reflects a decoupling between increased activity and resource Variation in water consumption is mainly due to the work consumption, showing that energy efficiency measures are carried out at the facilities, together with an increase in at optimum levels of implementation and maintaining them production activity. ensures that energy demand will not increase in the event of an increase in activity. As for consumption of discs, for 2019, 50 gb discs were supplied to replace 23 gb discs, due to the improvement in Diesel consumption is, linked to the startup of equipment. recording quality that requires discs with greater capacity. This has remained the same as last year as the equipment has only been started up preventively. For 2018 an estimate of the The sustained reduction in battery consumption was due fuel used by fleet vehicles in the year was included, which was to the progressive replacement, especially during 2019, of reduced in 2019 compared to the previous year. communication systems that use rechargeable batteries instead of disposable batteries. Consumption WATER (M3)1 ELECTRICITY (GJ) 1,4 DIESEL (GJ) 1 NATURAL GAS (GJ) 1 28,723 61,458 1,397 5,311 +13% +4% -2% -6% 2018: 25,327 2018: 59,133 2018: 1,428.5 2018: 5,674 2017: 28,662 2017: 63,919 2017: 76 2017: 4,638 Key: M3= cubic metres; GJ=Gigajoule; kg=kilograms (1) Corresponds to the headquarters of Fuencarral and Villaviciosa in Madrid, where 95% of the workforce and all activities related to audiovisual production are concentrated. (2) Corresponds to all work centers BATTERIES (KG) 1 DISCS (KG)1 PAPER (KG)2, 3 TONERS (KG)2 in Spain, given that the purchase is centrally made. 762 989 19,609 504.38 (3) Recycled paper consumption corresponds to 13.11% of the total. -65% -530% -3% -59.7% (4) An estimate of the electricity generated by the installed solar 2018: 1,705 2018: 157 2018: 20,175 2018: 1,251 panels has been included. 2017: 2,247 2017: 1,734 2017: 17,567 2017: 1,121 ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 149 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT As in previous years, waste generation was routinely measured throughout the year for audio-visual production as Waste well as office activity and in the employee cafeteria. All of the waste generated was properly managed with a preference towards recycling as permitted by regulations. Pursuant to rules regulating hazardous and non-hazardous WASTE FROM waste, Mediaset España properly delivers waste to an BIOSANITARY LAMPS AND ELECTRICAL AND WASTE FLUORESCENT ELECTRONIC EQUIPMENT authorised waste handler. Under this regime, electrical and (KG) TUBES (KG) (KG) electronic waste is managed through a technical warehouse and all technical equipment is procured under RoHS rules, 76 809 4,480 2% 19% -74% depositing end of useful life disposal costs at the time 2018: 74 2018: 681 2018: 16,940 of purchase, which guarantees proper management of 2017: 46 2017: 448 2017: 5,556 waste generated during the process of replacement due to expected or unexpected obsolescence. The majority of solid waste is generated in the cafeteria and staff working in that area separate it according to type (organic, plastic and glass). In the offices and other facilities employees separate paper, batteries, tape and packaging by depositing them in dedicated containers distributed PAPER (KG) BATTERIES (KG) TONER (KG)1 DISCS AND TAPES(KG) throughout company installations. 62,003 1,663 676 732 -13% -21% -46% -99% Like last year, the primary changes in waste managed by 2018: 71,404 2018: 2,100 2018: 1,251 2018: 49,960 Mediaset España were seen in discs, electronics, lamps and 2017: 74,660 2017: 1,790 2017: 1,124 2017: 6,440 florescent tubes. Since 2018, working together with the catering services supplier at the Fuencarral facilities, all the glasses, caps and other plastics used in the dining room are now biodegradable materials. PAINTS AND STEEL AND IRON (KG) SOLID URBAN AEROSOLS (KG) WASTE-SUW (TN)2 227 2,970 326 COMPACTOR (TN) -51% 2018: 0 2018: 6,050 15% 114 2017: 0 2017: 8,155 2018: 283 2017: 353 Corresponds to the headquarters of Fuencarral and Villaviciosa in Madrid, where 97% of the workforce and all activities related to audio-visual production are concentrated. (1) Estimate based on consumption. (2) Corresponds to an estimate of the urban solid waste generated per person, taking into account the entire workforce of the Group and the restoration activities carried out at the Fuencarral facilities. Dangerous waste Non dangerous waste ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 150 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT CAPS FOR A NEW LIFE® VOLUNTARY CARBON OFFSETTING CIRCULAR ECONOMY In 2017, Mediaset España, in collaboration with the Aware of the important role that carbon offsetting Since 2009, Mediaset España annually promotes a market Fundación Seur, launched the solidarity initiative plays in the efforts to address the climate emergency, by with clothes that have been bought or gifted to be used TAPONES PARA UNA NUEVA VIDA®, which involves financing projects aimed at reducing GHG emissions and by the presenters of their programmes or in the series the collection and delivery of plastic caps to a recycling strengthening natural or technological carbon sinks, in 2019 produced by the company and that will no longer be plant, to help children with serious health problems. Mediaset España has acquired carbon credits to absorb 600 used. This initiative has a dual purpose: on the one hand, tons of CO2, more than scope 1 and 2 total emissions, in the to collect the waste generated by plastic caps and the Southern Cardamom REDD+ Project, in the southwest facilitate their recycling, thus preventing them from of the Kingdom of Cambodia. ending up in a landfill and, on the other, contributing to children’s medical treatment. The Cardamom Mountains stretches along the border with GARMENTS SOLD Thailand, home to the second largest virgin rainforest in Since the Group was founded, it has contributed to the recycling of 516,500 plastic caps and saved 1,550 kg of Southeast Asia which is under severe threat from illegal logging and poaching. The offset project focuses on 2,557 CO2e. the south of this region, with the aim of preserving the biodiversity and habitat of many native species, many of 2019 GARMENTS DONATED Cardamomo Proyecto REDD + Preservación forestal which are on the International Union for Conservation of Nature’s Red List. 549 Cambodia RECYCLED CAPS 2019 CO2 SAVED 2019 178,500 GARMENTS FOR THE NEXT MARKET 563 KG 1,190 DIPLOMA de COLABORACIÓN Fundación SEUR agradece a MEDIASET ESPAÑA COMUNICACION S.A. Su contribución solidaria, en 2019, a través de la entrega de 178.500 tapones de plástico Para el proyecto “Tapones para una nueva vida”® impulsado por Fundación SEUR. Gracias a vosotros, muchos niños y niñas reciben la ayuda que necesitan, a la vez que se contribuye a la protección del medio ambiente. os En Madrid a 17 de Febrero de 2020 ni ñ El Patronato de Fundación SEUR 16 9 SA S 169 RI SON ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 151 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT MANAGING THE IMPACT OF SHOWS FILMED IN A NATURAL ENVIRONMENT Productions carried out in natural settings were managed by production staff using procedures aimed at ensuring that they were carried out in a sustainable manner. SUPERVIVIENTES 2019 LA ISLA DEL HÉROE VOLANDO VOY The adventure took place once again in Honduras in The recording took place on Centinela Island, in the Burguillo The programme promotes the protection and conservation an archipelago of keys and islands located within a Reservoir, following a series of measures aimed at preserving of natural environments. The production has applied for the protected area. Since 2006, the programme has integrated natural habitats and minimising the environmental impact. relevant permits and respected the restrictions established by environmental care and respect for everything related to the competent authority in the natural environments visited. biodiversity, complying strictly with the standards set by the – Materials: construction of sets and game spaces through Honduran government. the manufacture and use of non-polluting elements and – Ordesa and Monteperdido National Park: the restrictions recyclable materials such as vegetable cords and wood, as on helicopter flight were respected. – Coexistence with the ecosystem: the contestants and the well as the reuse of sets and elements manufactured for programme team received instructions on how to act in the other productions. – Laciana Valley: nesting restrictions were followed. area; among other things, regarding the protected species, how to detect turtle nests and mark them or how to act if an – Local products: use and consumption of local products, VIAJEROS CUATRO animal is found in the recording areas. both food and non-food materials, working with local suppliers of El Tiemblo. All recordings carried out in protected areas were carried – Water: is a scarce resource and therefore its use is limited. out after taking out all necessary permits, and crews were At the beginning of the production 40,000 gallons of – Plastic: reducing its use by buying in bulk, using glass accompanied at all times by those responsible for the areas’ water is brought on site and stored in tanks on Cayo containers, cloth bags or cardboard boxes. protection, and always following their instructions in order to Menor in order to avoid use of the natural well. avoid harming the natural environment in any way. – Waste: coordination with the city government for deposit – Materials: the natural products used in building the and removal of organic waste generated during filming; LOS GIPSY KINGS games as well as in the shelters for the contestants, are establishment of recycling points in each recording set. not acquired from the protected area but rather on In 2019, recordings were carried out in La Flecha del Rompido, the continent by registered purveyors. These items are – Electricity consumption: increase of natural light use in Huelva, which is part of the Natural Area Marismas del Rio organically cleaned prior to their delivery to the protected recording sets by creating outdoor settings and reducing Piedras and Flecha del Rompido. area in order to rid them of any infection or non-native the need to illuminate spaces with artificial light. insects. At all times the occupied areas were only those permitted, signposted and public. – Hygiene products: only biodegradable products are used, approved by the Foundation that manages and cares for The travel to the area was made using the public transport the protected area. Any action that requires the use of other service available in the town. types of products is carried out on the continent. During the recording, reusable containers were used and at – Waste: exhaustive cleaning of the beaches is carried out the end, all the waste generated was removed. periodically to remove the brought inby the sea. This waste is transported to the continent for its proper management. ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 152 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Scope: Mediaset Group, data as of December 31, 2019, unless otherwise indicated. For the personnel data, either staff or external collaborators, the head count concept is used. 2019 2018 2017 Workforce distribution by job category, age and gender Average Workforce (1) 1558.5 1,267 1,280 Men Women Workforce at year end (2) 1551 1,258 1,273 <30 30-50 >50 <30 30-50 >50 Interns (3) 366 187 132 Managers 0 36 37 0 23 16 Work Experience Students (4) 77 80 78 Heads of Department 0 26 22 0 24 24 Average age of the Workforce (years) (5) 44.8 46.21 45.43 Journalists 48 94 19 23 117 18 Proportion of female employees 48.30% 50.36% 50.23% Employees 39 286 190 24 331 138 Proportion of employees with indefinite contracts (6) 94.1% 99.84% 98.27% Operators 0 12 4 0 0 0 Average length of service in the workforce (years) 14.69 16.96 16.24 Total 87 454 272 47 495 196 (1) It includes structural and short-term personnel annual average for 2018. It does not include workers hired through Temporary Employment Agencies, internships or work experience placements. Workforce distribution by contract type and age (2) Refers to the structural and short-term personnel, at December 31st. (3) Total annual data Indefinite Temporary (4) Total annual data (5) Calculated at 31st December each year. Age Groups M F TOTAL M F TOTAL (6) Refers to structural personnel with an indefinite contract, at 31/12. <30 48 30 78 39 17 56 30-50 432 479 911 22 16 38 Workforce by Group Company, job category and gender >50 271 195 466 1 1 2 Structural PersonHead of Managers Journalists Employees Operators Total Total 751 704 1455 62 34 96 nel Dpt. M F M F M F M F M F M F Workforce distribution by contract type and job category Mediaset España 46 22 33 33 52 88 379 338 15 526 481 Publiespaña 18 11 8 9 37 101 1 64 121 2019 2018 Telecinco Cinema 3 1 1 1 2 4 4 Indefinite Temporary Indefinite Temporary Conecta 5 2 1 1 1 2 2 4 5 M F M F M F M F Netsonic (Spain) 3 3 0 Managers 73 39 74 41 Netsonic (subsidia1 1 1 1 Heads of Departries) 48 48 42 42 ment Mediterraneo 2 6 0 8 Journalists 122 138 39 20 54 88 1 1 Megamedia 2 1 3 2 29 37 62 25 96 65 Supersport 1 2 2 28 10 16 12 47 24 Employees 492 479 23 14 Eldesmarque 1 1 2 35 5 4 42 6 Operators 16 442 464 5 4 Short-Term 0 0 Total 1,455 96 1,251 22 workers 0 0 Mediaset España 1 4 4 5 4 Megamedia 15 17 6 2 21 19 Totales 73 39 48 48 160 158 515 493 16 0 813 738 *Structural personnel are those that have an indefinite or temporary contract and their positions are permanent within the organisational structure; Short-Term workers are those with contracts for a specific job or a fixed term. ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 153 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT Distribution of part-time workforce Rate of new employees hired by age, gender and country 2019 2018 2017 Spain International M F M F M F M F TOTAL M F TOTAL Managers 0 4 3 3 under 30 21.93% 15.61% 303.0% 48.1% Heads of Dept. 0 6 1 5 1 5 30-50 4.60% 1.73% 0.0% 48.6% Journalists 5 34 2 31 2 27 over 50 0.39% 0.55% 0.0% 0.0% Employees 16 94 13 105 13 110 Total 5.12% 2.28% 21.41% 48.48% 4.04% Operators 1 0 Note: It refers to the average workforce with indefinite contract and new employees as those employees who return after a Total 22 138 16 144 16 145 sabbatical or contract suspension Workforce distribution by working hours, age and gender Distribution of leave by age group, gender and country Full Time Part Time Age M F TOTAL Age Group M F TOTAL M F TOTAL Spain under 30 83 46 129 4 1 5 under 30 7 4 11 30-50 445 376 821 9 119 128 30-50 24 20 44 >50 263 178 441 9 18 27 over 50 12 4 16 Total 791 600 1,391 22 138 160 Total 43 28 71 International New permanent contracts under 30 1 3 4 30-50 2 9 11 Age M F TOTAL over 50 0 0 0 Spain Total 3 12 15 under 30 19 7 26 TOTAL LEAVE 86 30-50 21 9 30 over 50 1 1 2 Note: Leave of workers with indefinite contracts. Voluntary leave, dismissals, retirements, deaths, sabbatical and suspension of contracts for employees with an indefinite contract are taken into consideration. Total 41 17 58 International under 30 1 1 2 Distribution of dismissals by age group and gender and professional category 30-50 0 3 3 Heads of over 50 0 0 0 Managers dpt. Journalists Employees Operators Total Total 1 4 5 over 50 6 3 2 1 12 M 5 1 2 1 9 Note: It includes indefinite contracts formalised during the year, including those employees who return after a sabbatical or contract suspension. F 1 2 3 30-50 2 1 10 13 M 1 1 3 5 F 1 7 8 under 30 5 5 M 3 3 F 2 2 Total 8 3 1 17 1 30 ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 154 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT Turnover by age group and gender Absenteeism Age M F TOTAL 2019 M F TOTAL under 30 9.2% 14.9% 11.2% Hours lost 62,712 90,504 153,216 30-50 5.6% 5.5% 5.6% “Note: It refers to the hours lost due to common illness, accidents outside work, accident on way to/from work, accident at work over 50 4.6% 2.2% 3.6% with sick leave and paternity and maternity leave.” Scope: Mediaset España Group except ElDesmarque Total 5.7% 5.3% 5.5% Hours worked Note: It reffers to the average workforce with indefinite contract. TOTAL 2018 Turnover by age group and gender and country Workforce1 2,655,769 Age M F TOTAL Temporal Employment Agencies’ employees 350,002 Spain (1) Note: the hours worked by the workforce are an estimate based on the hours included in Mediaset España’s Collective Agreement and the average workforce of the year. under 30 15.6% 12.8% 24.5% 30-50 5.4% 4.0% 466% Accidents at work by gender over 50 4.7% 2.2% 6.2% M F Total 5.8% 3.9% 4.9% I. Frequency 3.25 2.57 I.Seriousness 0.10 0.11 International M F TOTAL I. Incidence 5.27 4.06 under 30 303.0% 144.2% 165.29% Rates of injury 8.13 7.71 30-50 46.2% 145.9% 104.76% Scope: Mediaset España Group except El Desmarque I. Frequency= nº AAWSL x 1000000 / Hours worked over 50 N/A N/A N/A I Seriousness = Days lost to AAWSL x 1000 / Hours worked I. Incidence = nº AAWSL x 1000 / Average Workforce Total 42.83% 109.09% 116.10% Rates of injury = nº AAWSL+AOWTFW x 1000000/Hours worked Note: It refers to the average workforce with indefinite contracts. Training hours by professional category and gender Workforce with disability 2019 2018 2017 2019 M F M F M F M F Managers 639 1275 1,042 1,161 328 655 Journalists 1 1 Heads of Dept. 1024 1077 1,527 595 344 813 Employees 4 3 Journalists 769 1948 289 465 12 Total 5 4 Employees 4592 4383 7,161 5,188 3,974 3,972 Operators 139 8 254 168 697 88 Temporal Employment Agency 320 735 7,483 9,426 10,273 7,577 5,343 5,540 Total 17,850 10,883 13,225 Scope: Mediaset España Group. ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 155 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT With regard to human rights training, in 2019, 130 hours of Relationship between the entry level salary provided for in the Collective Bargaining Agreement and the training were given to 8 participants in courses with related minimum wage for the workforce content. Training was centered fundamentally on protection of personal data. Conecta5 and MegamePubliespaña and netsonic Mediaset, Telecinco Supersport El Desmarque dia Cinema and Mediterraneo At the same time, 100% of the security personnel Level 1 1.44 Level 1 1.76 Level 1 0.98 SP1 1.84 Group 1 1.71 subcontracted by Mediaset España has received training in Level 2 1.39 Level 2 1.56 Level 2 1.28 SP2 1.57 Group 2 1.50 Human Rights, given that they have their own Professional Level 3 1.34 Level 3 1.49 Level 3 1.49 SP3 1.37 Group 3 1.32 ID Card. Level 4 1.29 Level 4 1.48 Level 4 1.70 SP4 1.24 Group 4 1.15 Level 5 1.19 Level 5 1.48 Level 5 1.89 SP5 1.17 Group 5 0.97 It should be noted that there are no significant investment Level 6 1.14 Level 6 1.38 Level 6 2.13 SP6 1.104 Group 6 0.84 agreements in Mediaset España. Level 7 1.09 Level 7 1.37 Level 7 2.38 SP7 1.04 Level 8 1.04 Level 8 1.27 Level 8 2.64 SP8 0.97 Total annual pay in 2019 for the most highly paid person in Level 9 1.00 Level 9 1.24 Level 9 2.89 SP9 0.84 the organisation was 35.68 times higher than the average Level 10 1.232 Level 10 3.40 annual total pay of the workforce. This information was Level 11 1.16 calculated based on the average pay of employees as of 31 December 2019, except for 8 temporary employees and 4 Average salary by job category Average salary by age group Average salary by gender employees who are not based in Spain. (thousand of euros) (thousand of euros) (thousand of euros) 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 The most highly paid person has received a 13.27% pay rise compared to the previous year, while average workforce Managers 179 188 <30 25 18 M F M F pay has fallen by 10.93% mainly due to the changes to Heads of Dpt. 70 71 30-50 52 48 Manager 203 132 218 133 the consolidation perimeter with 3 new companies. This Journalist 55 41 >50 80 76 Other categories 53 45 44 43 information was calculated based on the average pay of Technicians 48 employees as of 31 December 2019, except for 8 temporary employees and 4 employees who are not based in Spain. Employees and operators 37 Employees 42 There is no pension plan structure included in the social Operators 33 benefits that the company provides its employees. Note: In order to offer a homogeneous breakdown of job categories throughout the Report, the data presented in 2019 has been reorganised, and the Employees and Operators categories are not 100% comparable with the previous year. Calculation of average compensation was based on the average compensation of employees as of 31 December 2019, except for 8 temporary employees and 4 non-expatriate employees of the Netsonic companies located in Mexico, Colombia, USA, whose compensation policy is independent of that of Mediaset España, and is instead responsive to current market conditions in those countries. PAY GAP 2019 GRAL. DIRECTORS* MANAGERS 28.46% NON-MANAGEMENT 0.66% *All General Directors are men. Note: Calculation of pay gap was based on the average compensation of employees (Average Compensation for Men Average Compensation for as of 31 December 2019, except for 8 temporary employees and 4 non-expatriate Women) employees of the Netsonic companies located in Mexico, Colombia, USA, whose Average Compensation for Men compensation policy is independent to that of Mediaset España, and is instead responsive to current market conditions in those countries. ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 156 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT FRINGE BENEFITS In 2019, the total personnel hired through employment Human Resources management mechanisms described agencies worked 350,002 hours and there were 3 work-rein the Human Resources Management section, and proMediaset España does not have a pension plan scheme lated accidents with leave and 2 accidents travelling to/from vides a means for reporting any such episode in the event for its workers, although it offers an extensive array of work, all of which were minor. The rate of recordable injuries one should occur. perquisites and work/life balance measures that are detailed in this group was 14.3. in the Human Resources Management section of this Report Procedures guaranteeing compliance with human rights (MANAGEMENT MODEL). The Group strives to improve As for external collaborators, Mediaset España considers are fully integrated in the Mediaset España Group and the quality of life of its employees and for this reason, that the categories of people contracted from employment guaranteed by management mechanisms for each area: disconnection to ones work is achieved by way of work/ agencies, interns and work experience students form this Content Management, Human Resources Management, life balance measures and perquisites. group. As for independent contractors, current data maAdvertising Management, Stakeholder Relations, etc. are nagement systems do not allow for the disaggregation of fully explained in this Report in the BUSINESS MODEL secsuch information, although Mediaset España is working to tion. WORKERS HIRED THROUGH TEMPORARY provide this information in the future. EMPLOYMENT AGENCIES Workers may raise concerns about possible violations of Workers hired through temporary employment agencies Within the management hiring process framework, in human rights, such concerns are evaluated and resolved perform support functions for audio-visual production as the Mediaset Group, the hiring and appointment of senior through a company Committee and formal mechanisms well as other areas of the business. They are distributed managers continues naturally and based on their abilities. established in the Collective Bargaining Agreements, as well among professional categories as follows: through the Ethical Mailbox, the Employment Relations MaRegarding the positions of Senior Executives / Directors from nagement or the Medical Service. local communities, the company does not have a specific policy for local hiring of personnel distinct from its geneProcedures for the identification of workplace safety issues, Distribution of Temporary Employment Agency ral recruitment policy, since it is believed that such policy may risk assessment, and investigation of incidents are created workers by category promote instances of discrimination. by the Joint Prevention Service (“Servicio de Prevención Heads of Dpt. 0 Mancomunado” or SPM) and later reviewed by the HR Administrative 0 It should be noted that, of the 4 people located outside Director. These are audited annually, both internally and Journalists 82 of Spain, none of them are senior executives while in Spain, externally. The accident investigation is carried out according 91.15% of the Managers come from the local community. to the internal procedure existing for this purpose, which inTechnicians 545 volves the injured party, his or her superior, the members of Oprearators 38 Freedom of association and collective bargaining rights the HSC and members of the SPM. are fully guaranteed in all Mediaset España work centers as Temporary Employment Agency workers by age described in the Workforce section of this Report (MEDIASET The communication by any worker of possible dangers or and gender ESPAÑA IN 2019). dangerous substances is directed to Prevention RepreM F TOTAL sentatives or directly to any member of the SPM. under 30 169 202 371 Mediaset España supervises the participation of underage 30-50 162 99 261 artists in their programmes by strictly following the criteria Spanish legislation empowers Occupational Health and over 50 24 9 33 and procedures established by the Consejería de Empleo Safety Representatives to stop any process or activity that de la Comunidad de Madrid, thus reducing the risk of child they believe may cause harm or illness to employees, with Total 355 310 665 exploitation to a minimum. Additionally, the Group ensures the legal safeguard that no retaliatory action of any kind may that instances of forced labour do not occur by means of be taken against them. ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 157 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT The Group guarantees the confidentiality of workers’ health There is a chain of approval for contracting, so that several MARKETING AND LABELLING information through rigorous application of the General Data people are up to date on procurements and requests for Protection Regulation, compliance with applicable law, and services, as well as a separation of duties and well defined In the ordinary course of conducting its audio-visual business, the swearing of the Hippocratic oath by the professionals levels of authorisation. Additionally, the Group has a Mediaset España follows a strict protocol for labelling working in the Medical Service. Contract Signing Procedure, an official chart of corporate its audio-visual products and services, applying legislation, representative powers containing the quantitative and codes and self-regulatory agreements as well as sectorqualitative limits of each post, as well as a Procedure for the specific guidelines, as detailed in the Content Management ANTICORRUPTION AND UNFAIR management of powers of attorney. section of this document (BUSINESS MODEL). COMPETITION The management tools and policies of the Group established Mediaset España has established an activity framework for Similarly, there continues to be strict compliance with to fight corruption are detailed in the Risk Management the prevention of unfairly competitive, monopolistic and/ current regulations and self-regulatory guidelines in matters section of this Report (GOVERNANCE MODEL). In 2019 traor unfair competition practices in the conduct of business. regarding audio-visual business communication (advertising ining in this area was given to Directors and Senior MaAccordingly, under the Mediaset España Code of Ethics, all messages, promotion, sponsorship and product placement) nagement, with 6 people receiving training (5% of the staff are obliged to take all appropriate measures in order to and self-promotion, as described in the Advertising group). In addition to training and information given to comply with current legislation, and in the event of any doubt, Management section of this document (BUSINESS MODEL). the staff regarding these matters, the Chairman of the the Code provides that one should consult with General Audit Committee reports on the Committee’s activities to Management of the company. However, despite adopting all possible means to ensure the Board of Directors. This report contains the procedures the responsible management of both the content and and policies that frame the conduct of the Group’s business. It also establishes that because all relationships with advertising broadcast, situations have arisen where In this manner, the Group’s anti-corruption policies and stakeholders are key drivers of the company’s reputation and established procedures did not mitigate potential procedures are communicated to all members of the Board. its bottom line, they should be frank, honest, open, respectful situations of non-compliance. and ethical. Mediaset España considers itself a partner with So far as proper labelling is concerned, there were no incidents those businesses upon which it has an influence on Mediaset España firmly believes in free and open competition. resulting in a warning. However, Mediaset España received management. As a result, contracts between producers and This means all prices are established as a function of costs, five fines in 2019, imposed for breaches on advertising rules, Mediaset España include a clause by which they commit to market conditions, national and international reputation, and by the National Commission on Markets and Competition comply and insist that their employees and partners comply open competition. All acts which violate current antitrust or (CNMC). One for exceeding advertising time, two for improper with current legislation regarding money laundering, finance unfair competition regulations are prohibited. advertising spots and two for surreptitious advertising. The of terrorism, fraud, white collar crime, corruption, and bribery. total amount of these fines was 1,019,695 euros, all of which In 2019 all the investee producers that signed contracts with Monetary or in-kind contributions to political parties or related were appealed in court. Mediaset España have signed the anti-corruption clause. institutions are regulated in the Code of Ethics, according to which they are prohibited without the approval of the CEO To ensure that charitable contributions and sponsorships and in compliance with applicable law. of other organizations do not conceal bribery, the Mediaset Group has a Gift Policy of avoiding the receipt or offer of In 2019, the Group is not aware of any direct or indirect gifts that could be considered in exchange for favourable contributions made to political parties and/or representatives treatment for oneself over others in the acquisition or sale of financial or in kind on behalf of Mediaset España. merchandise, service contracting or in business relationships. In turn, the Group has a Procedure for the Sale of Film Sets and Wardrobe, that establishes approval levels in the event of free donations. ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 158 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT As of the date of this Report, the 2019 Annual Report of HEALTH AND SAFETY OF PRODUCTS AND LOCAL COMMUNITY the Joint Monitoring Commission on the Code of SelfSERVICES Regulation of Television Content and Children, which collects Mediaset España does not have an information system the complaints received on the website www.tvinfancia.es The evaluation of possible impacts of the products and in place to obtain data on operations involving the local regarding broadcast content and programmes, is yet to be services offered (broadcast audio-visual content) on the health community, their impact assessments and/or development published. According to provisional internal data relating to and safety of the audience is measured by the company’s programmes. Mediaset España, 20 complaints were directed against this compliance with all applicable law and application of action operator, and the Self-Regulatory Committee found that the guidelines for the dissemination of audio-visual content and However, bearing in mind the nature of the activities broadcast content in one case was inappropriate. As a result advertising, as described in the Content Management and carried out by the Group, which are predominantly in Spain, Mediaset España revised the age rating of the programme Advertising Management sections within this document participation of the local community and interaction with involved. (BUSINESS MODEL). the audio-visual business is substantial, so that development of audio-visual productions is in line with the concerns and As for broadcast advertising, in 2019 there were no complaints As for these matters, in 2019 there were no incidents resulting tastes of the local audience, as well as support for social received, nor were there any instances of a breach of the code in fines or economic sanctions, warnings, or incidents of noncauses responding to local needs identified by the company. processed through the Autocontrol Committee. compliance with any voluntary codes regarding the impact that the products or services of the Group may have on the Given the nature of the company’s fundamental activity, that Regarding the measurement of audience satisfaction, health and safety of the audience. is, the audio-visual business, the main positive impacts it is carried out using the mechanisms described in the on local communities occur through the generation of Content Management section within this document The products marketed by the company are subject to direct and indirect employment, leisure and information (BUSINESS MODEL) and the results are reviewed daily compliance with applicable legislation. If during 2019 about the audience, and collaboration with social causes by the ANTENA team, adjusting the programming grid a product or programme were to have been involved in and organisations. accordingly in response to the results. Mediaset España litigation and there were well-founded grounds, the company does not publicly disclose this information, considering it to would have adopted all precautionary measures necessary to On the other hand, negative impacts might be generated as be sensitive business information. stop its continuance until the matter were resolved. a result of broadcasting audio-visual content. In that case, the company has control mechanisms in place that allow for the management of possible negative impacts, and which are SUPPLIERS ASSESSMENT described in detail in the Content Management section of this document (BUSINESS MODEL). Mediaset España does not carry out a formal analysis of its suppliers’ labour or human rights practices, social impacts or environmental performance. Nonetheless, in order to guarantee the ethical performance of its supply chain, the company requires a compliance clause in contracts with suppliers which includes these matters. Independently, the Group imposes upon its suppliers the commitment to respect, among other matters, workplace and union rights of their workers, avoidance of child labour, and to reject any kind of forced labour, as described in the Management of the Supply Chain section of this document (BUSINESS MODEL). ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 159 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT ENVIRONMENT As already mentioned, the company conducts its audio-visual Type of waste Final disposal production and development in Spain, while conducting Special biosanitary waste Sterilisation / Destruction The Group’s main activity is audio-visual content production advertising and marketing campaigns on the internet Lamps and lighting fixtures Recycling / Recovery and broadcasting. Accordingly, the packaging material waste outside of Spain (less than 1% of the workforce). Therefore, Discs and tapes Destruction produced is considered non-significant. Nonetheless, the primary energy consumption occurs in Spain, where Batteries Recycling Group takes its responsibilities as a waste producer seriously, electrical energy is acquired from 100% renewable sources, Paper Recycling managing all the waste that it produces from products meaning that indirect greenhouse gas emissions for energy RAEE: screens, printers, scanRecycling / Recovery it acquires and measuring CO2 emissions associated with generation is 0. Energy consumption outside the facilities is ners, mixed e-scrap them, both upstream and downstream. given in terms of CO2 emissions. RSU Ler Code 200301 Controlled disposal tank Recycling / Recovery Mediaset España uses office supplies made from recycled The refrigerants that Mediaset España uses in its HVAC Steel and iron Ler Code Final Provision according to Anex II 170405 materials, such as recycled paper or toner, in its equipment equipment have ODP equal to zero and therefore do not of the Law 22/2011 R12 where possible. In this sense, in 2019, 2,571 kg of recycled paper damage the ozone layer, except for that equipment which Toner Recycling have been used while trying to use refilled toner instead of uses R22 and is under plans to be replaced. Under current buying new cartridges. law, equipment that uses said gas must be replaced and in REGULATORY COMPLIANCE no case may it be refilled with R22 refrigerant, so that ozone Mediaset España headquarters are located on urban lots, damaging emissions are not released into the atmosphere. In 2019 Mediaset España did not receive any environmental so both the supply and discharge of water is accomplished complaints and was not subject to any significant fine or through the municipal network. The installations directly If the gross value of indirect emissions of greenhouse gases penalty for non-compliance with environmental regulations. managed by the Group are in industrial parks or urban areas, for energy generation is taken into account in relation to away from protected natural spaces. the location of company activities, they reach the values Nor were there any incidents related to violations of described below, given the emissions of the Spanish energy indigenous rights. By conducting its core business in urban areas, there is mix. no impact on natural spaces beyond the possible impacts Regarding fines or sanctions for breaches of the law produced by filming in natural environments. These are or regulations regarding human resources matters, 8 LOCATION BASED SCOPE 2 managed by consciously minimising their impact whenever employment claims from the year before were resolved possible and strictly complying with applicable law while Tn CO2e during 2019, 5 of which resulted in a judicial settlement, 2 following proper protocols to guarantee conservation and were resolved in favour of the company and 1 was suspended 2019 6,999 non-impact, as described in the Environmental Performance reserving the right to take legal action. Managing the impact of shows filmed in a natural 2018 5,273 environment section, of this document (MEDIASET ESPAÑA 2017 6,960 In other judicial matters, in 2019 Mediaset España was IN 2019). ordered to pay €29,000 for defamation and violation of the As mentioned in the Environmental Performance section right to one’s own image cuased by the information broadcast Similarly, given the nature of the Group ‘s activities, there is no of this document, Mediaset España delivers waste to in the news. significant risk of hazardous substance spills, and there is no an authorised manager for disposal in compliance with record in 2019 that any such situation occurred. regulations that regulate hazardous and non-hazardous There were no other fines or significant sanctions during 2019 waste. As far as the company is aware, they are destined as in addition to those mentioned above and those detailed in follows: the MARKETING AND LABELLING section. ABOUT THIS REPORT ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 161 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT Very important ABOUT THIS REPORT Non discrimination in the PREPARATION PROCESS FOR THE CORPORATE workplace ANNUAL REPORT Data Protection Equal opportunities Occupational health and safety Regulatory changes Avoid Corruption The contents of this report responds to the informational requirements Avoid misleading advertising defined in the Law on the Disclosure of Non-Financial Information (Law Innovation 11/2018), as well as to the assessment of relevant issues that have arisen Freedom of expression during the year, both at the sectoral and global level, to the relevant issues Financial balance Avoid subliminal advertising identified in materiality analyses and to the information requirements of Relevance for the stakeholders’ group Investment in Technology Climate impact the initiatives to which Mediaset España adheres. Professional Training Resources consumption Appropriate programme labelling The Report was created by the company’s Senior Management, and relied Producer compliance upon collaboration and involvement of all areas of the organisation, and Freedom of association and Collective Bargaining Development Transparency is intended to explain in a rigorous and detailed manner the significant of new markets Avoid unfair competition practices impacts arising from matters relevant to the business, its management, Non-discrimination in the Gender content broadcasted diversity Employment Stability and its results. Taxation Social Action Accessible content Ethical Recognition and retention of talent This report complies with the sustainability reporting principles of communications Cibersecurity Privacy of Personal life Social awareness the GRI Standards version, in terms of determining the content of the Sustainable Intellectual property/ copyrights report (stakeholder inclusiveness, sustainability context, materiality, criteria for suppliers completeness) and the quality of the information (balance, comparability, Adapted content Media literacy accuracy, timeliness, clarity and reliability). Work-life balance Big Data MATERIALITY ANALYSIS Provision of employment complaint mechanisms In 2018, Senior Management carried out a review of the materiality matrix developed the year before. In 2019, based on a documentary analysis, it has been determined that no relevant issue occurred during the year, due to a change in regulations, local or global trends, or new information requirements on the part of its main stakeholders, was outside the scope of the report. Important Important Very important Importance for business Financial Good Governance/business Social Environmental ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 162 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT IMPACT OF RELEVANT ISSUES ON STAKEHOLDERS Relevant issue How Grupo Mediaset España responds GRI standard Accessible content Accessible content Accessible content M4, M5, M7 Social Action 201-1, 201-2, 201-3 and 201-4 Business context Appropriate programme labelling Content Management M2, M3, 416-1, 416-2, 417-1, 417-2, 102-43, 102-44, 419-1 Self-regulation Codes and Sector Guides Media literacy Content Management M7 Data protection Big Data Management of Internet Content 103-1, 103-2 and 103-3 Management approach (DATA PROTECTION) Advertising management Business context Risk Management System Regulatory changes Content Management 102-2, 417-3, 418-1, 419-1, 307-1 Advertising Management Participation in Public Policy Development Data Protection Cybersecurity Cybersecurity 103-1, 103-2 and 103-3 Management approach (Supply chain), 102-9, 414-1, 414Producer compliance Supply Chain Management 2, 407-1, 408-1, 409-1, 414-1, 414-2, 308-1, 308-2 Team Management Work life balance 401-1, 401-2, 401-3 Social benefits and work-life balance measures Resources consumption Environmental performance 302-1, 302-2, 302-3, 302-4, 302-5 Adapted content Content Management 102-16, M2, M3, M6 Sustainable criteria when choosing suppliers Supply Chain Management 414-1, 414-2, 308-1, 308-2, 204-1 Development of new markets Business context 102-6 Provision of employment complaint mechanisms Team Management 103-1, 103-2 and 103-3 Management approach Team Management Gender Diversity 405-1, 405-2 Equal opportunities Employees Artists Shareholders Advertisers Audience Suppliers Trade unions Competition Management Community and sector and Investors professionals ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 163 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT Relevant issue How Grupo Mediaset España responds GRI standard Economic-Financial Result Financial balance 102-7, 201-1, 201-2, 201-3, 201-4 Taxation Team Management Employment Stability 102-8, 401-1, 401-2, 401-3, 402-1 Employee relations Ethical communications Advertising management 102-16, 102-17 Avoid corruption Risk management system 102-18, 102-16, 102-17, 205-1, 205-2, 205-3, 415-1 Content Management Avoid anti-competitive practices 206-1 Advertising management Team Management Training and professional development Training and recruitment of new talent 404-1, 404-2, 404-3 Performance evaluation Team Management Equal opportunities Equal opportunities 405-1, 405-2 Fringe benefits and work -life balance measures Climate Impact Environmental performance 305-1, 305-2, 305-3, 305-4, 305-5, 305-6, 305-7, 306-1, 306-2, 306-3, 306-4, 306-5 Business context Innovation 201-1, 201-2, 201-3, 201-4, 203-1, 203-2 Internet content management Key Performance Indicators Other Performance Indicators Investment in technology Business context 203-1, 203-2 Cybersecurity Environmental Performance Freedom of association Employee relations 102-41, 407-1 Content Management Freedom of expression M2, M3, 407-1 Team Management Team Management Non-discrimination in the workplace 405-1, 406-1 Equal opportunities Content Management Non-discrimination in broadcasted content M2, M3, M6 Content accessibility Privacy of Personal life Content Management M2, M3 Employees Artists Shareholders Advertisers Audience Suppliers Trade unions Competition Management Community and sector and Investors professionals ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 164 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT Relevant issue How Grupo Mediaset España responds GRI standard Intellectual property/copyrights Content Management 412-1, 412-2, 412-3 Personal data protection Data protection 418-1 Subliminal advertising Advertising Management 102-2 and 417-3 Misleading advertising Advertising Management 416-1, 416-2, 417-3, 102-2 Team Management Recognition and retention of talent 404-1, 404-2, 404-3 Performance evaluation Team Management Occupational health and safety 403-1, 403-2, 403-3, 403-4 Occupational health and safety risk prevention Social awareness Entertainment, information and social commitment M2, M3 Governance Model Transparency Business Model 102-40, 102-42, 102-43, 102-44, 417-1, 417-2 About this report Employees Artists Shareholders Advertisers Audience Suppliers Trade unions Competition Management Community and sector and Investors professionals ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 165 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT DIALOGUE Mediaset España makes this report available to its stakeholders in a digital format that can be accessed through the company´s corporate web page. www.mediaset.es/inversores/en/corporate-responsability.html Mediaset España values and encourages stakeholder engagement, enabling a specific communication channel for their comments, concerns and information requirements and to obtain feedback on the issues addressed in this and other reports considered relevant from a sustainability perspective.The channel that may be used is: General Corporate Management Carretera de Fuencarral a Alcobendas, 4 28049Madrid rc@telecinco.es EXTERNAL AUDIT Mediaset España submits this Report for independent external assurance. Non-financial information hs been reviewed by Deloitte, in accordance with ISAE 3000 (revised) regulations, you can find their assessment at the end of this report. ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 166 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT GRI CONTENTS INDEX GRI Standard Page GRI 101: Foundations GRI 102 General Contents Organisation profile 102-1 Name of the organisation VII 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 2-5, 42 102-3 Location of headquarters 2 102-4 Location of operations 3 102-5 Ownership and legal form 2 102-6 Markets served IV, 2 102-7 Organisation Size 2-5, 12 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 102-104, 152-153 102-9 Supply chain 25, 54-55, 158 102-10 Significant changes to the organisation and its supply chain 4 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach 19-21, 145 102-12 External initiatives 68 102-13 Membership of associations 44, 67-68 Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker IX 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 19-21, 27-30 Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behaviour 23 102-17 Advisory mechanisms and ethical concerns 24 Governance 7-9 102-18 Governance structure Annual Corporate Governance Report Annual Corporate Governance Report 102-19 Delegating authority Audit and Compliance Committee Regulations Pg. 12 14 Annual Corporate Governance Report 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, and social topics Audit and Compliance Committee Regulations Pg. 12 14 18 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, and social topics Audit Committee Regulations Pg. 12 14 6-8 102-22 Composition of the highest governing body and its committees Annual Corporate Governance Report 8 102-23 Chairman of the highest governing body Annual Corporate Governance Report Board of Directors’ Regulations Pg. 9 102-24 Appointment and selection of the highest governing body Appointments and Remuneration Committee Regulations Pg. 4 5 23-24 102-25 Conflicts of interest Board of Directors’ Regulations Pg. 32-33 Board of Directors’ Regulations Pg. 7 102-26 Role of the highest governing body in the selection of objectives, values and strategy Audit and Compliance Committee Regulations Pg. 13 ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 167 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT GRI Standard Page Board of Directors’ Regulations (Art. 10.8) 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governing body Pg 14 102-28 Evaluating the highest governing body’s performance Annual Corporate Governance Report (C.1.17) Audit and Compliance Committee Regulations 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental, and social impacts Pg. 11, 12-14 Annual Corporate Governance Report (F) 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes Board of Directors’ Regulations Pg. 5-8 9 Board of Directors’ Regulations 102-31 Evaluation of economic, environmental, and social topics Pg. 5-8 Audit and Compliance Committee Regulations Pg. 11 9 Board of Directors’ Regulations 102-32 Role of the highest governing body in sustainability reporting Pg. 5-6 Audit and Compliance Committee Regulations Pg. 11-14 Board of Directors’ Regulations (Art. 29) 102-33 Communicating critical concerns Pg. 29 102-34 Nature and total number of critical concerns 9 9 Directors’ Annual Remuneration Report Articles of Association Article 37.3 and 56 102-35 Remuneration policies Board of Directors’ Regulations Pg. 27-29 Annual Corporate Governance Report 9 Directors’ Annual Remuneration Report Articles of Association Article 37.3 and 56 102-36 Process for determining remuneration Board of Directors’ Regulations Pg. 27-29 Annual Corporate Governance Report 9 Directors’ Annual Remuneration Report Articles of Association Article 37.3 and 56 102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration Board of Directors’ Regulations Pg. 27-29 Annual Corporate Governance Report 102-38 Total annual remuneration ratio 155 102-39 Percentage increase in total annual remuneration ratio 155 Stakeholder participation 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 18 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 48, 105 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 18 102-43 Approach to stakeholder participation 17-18 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 161-164 Reporting practices 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 3 102-46 Definition of report contents and topic coverage 161-164 102-47 List of material topics 161-164 102-48 Restatement of information VII 102-49 Changes in reporting VII 102-50 Reporting period VII 102-51 Latest report date VII 102-52 Reporting cycle VII 102-53 Point of contact for questions regarding the report 165 ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 168 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT GRI Standard Page 102-54 Statement on the preparation of the report in accordance with GRI standards VII 102-55 GRI content index 166-170 102-56 External audit Independent Audit Report GRI 201 Economic Performance 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 131 156 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change Directors’ Annual Remuneration Report Pg. 14 156 201-3 Defined benefit and other retirement plan obligations Directors’ Annual Remuneration Report Pg. 14 201-4 Financial assistance received from government 97 GRI 202 Market Presence 202-1 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage 155 202-2 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community 156 GRI 203 Indirect Economic Impacts 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported 133 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts 12, 131 GRI 204 Procurement Practices 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers 55 GRI 205 Anti-corrupción 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 24, 157 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures 24, 157 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 24 GRI 206 Anti-competitive Behaviour 27, 157 The Company only reports on those legal actions where a final 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust, and monopoly practices judgement is given in the year of the report. For further information see Note 16 of the Consolidated Financial Statements GRI 301 Materials 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume 148 301-2 Recycled input materials used 148 301-3 Reclaimed products and their packaging materials 159 GRI 302 Energy 302-1 Energy consumption within the organisation 145-148 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organisation 145-148 302-3 Energy intensity 145 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 145-148 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services 148, 151 GRI 303 Water 303-1 Water withdrawal by source 72, 148 303-2 Water sources significantly affected by the extraction of water 159 The Company does not have treatments for recycled or reused water at 303-3 Recycled and reused water its facilities GRI 304 Biodiversity 304-1 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas 159 304-2 Significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity 159 304-3 Habitats protected or restored 151, 159 304-4 IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations 125, 127, 150-151 GRI 305 Emissions 305-1 Direct GHG emissions (Scope 1) 147 305-2 Indirect GHG emissions from power generation (Scope 2) 147, 159 305-3 Other indirect GHG emissions (Scope 3) 147 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 147 ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 169 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT GRI Standard Page 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 145-147, 150 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) 147, 159 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), and other significant air emissions 147 GRI 306 Effluents and Waste 306-1 Water disposal by quality and destination 159 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 148-150, 159 306-3 Significant spills 159 The Company does not transport hazardous waste, but rather the 306-4 Transport of hazardous waste authorised waste handlers are the ones who transport the hazardous waste generated at Mediaset 306-5 Water bodies affected by water disposals and/or runoff 159 GRI 307 Environmental Compliance 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations 159 GRI 308 Supplier Environmental Assessment 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria 158 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 158 GRI 401 Employment 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 153-154 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees 52, 107 401-3 Parental leave 104 GRI 402 Labor-Management Relations 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes 48 GRI 403 Occupational Health and Safety 403-1 Occupational Health and Safety Management System 52, 113 403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment and incident investigation 52-53, 156 403-3 Occupational Health Services 52, 156 403-4 Employee participation, consultation and communication on occupational health and safety 52, 156 403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety 114 403-6 Promotion of employee’s health 112 403-7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and safety impacts directly linked by business 54, 158 403-8 Workers covered by an occupational health and safety management system 113 403-9 Work-related injuries 115, 156 403-10 Work-related illnesses 115 GRI 404 Training and Education 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 71. 108 109 404-2 Programmes for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programmes The Company does not offer programs aimed at managing the end of professional careers when people retire or are dismissed. 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews 104 GRI 405 Diversity and Equal Opportunities 405-1 Diversity of governing bodies and employees 8, 103 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women compared to men 155 GRI 406 Non-discrimination 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 106 GRI 407 Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at risk 156, 158 GRI 408 Child Labor 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk of incidents of child labour 156, 158 GRI 409 Forced or Compulsory Labour 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk of incidents of forced or compulsory labour 156, 158 GRI 410 Security Practices ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 170 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT GRI Standard Page 410-1 Security personnel trained in human rights policies or procedures 26, 155 GRI 411 Rights of Indigenous People 411-1 Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people 159 GRI 412 Human Rights Assessment 412-3 Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments 158 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures 155 412-1 Significant investment agreements and contracts that include human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening 37, 41, 46, 158 GRI 413 Local Communities 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs 131 413-2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local communities 131 GRI 414 Social Evaluation of Suppliers 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria 158 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 158 GRI 415 Public Policy 415-1 Contributions made to political parties/representatives 157 GRI 416 Customer Health and Safety 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and service categories 158 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services 158 GRI 417 Marketing and labelling 417-1 Requirements for product and service information and labelling 38 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service information and labelling 157-158 157-158 The Company only reports on those legal actions where a final 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing communications judgement is given in the year of the report. For further information see Note 16 of the Consolidated Financial Statements GRI 418 Customer Privacy 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data 32 GRI 419 Socioeconomic Compliance The Company only reports on those legal actions where a final 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area judgement is given in the year of the report. For further information see Note 16 of the Consolidated Financial Statements G4-M1 Significant funding and other support received from non-governmental sources 97 G4-M2 Methodology for assessing and monitoring adherence to content creation values 35, 37, 41-42, 46 G4-M3 Actions taken to improve adherence to content creation values, and results obtained 35, 37, 41-42, 46 Actions taken to improve performance in relation to content distribution matters (accessibility and protection of vulnerable audiences and informed decision G4-M4 making) 132 and results obtained Number and nature of responses (feedback/ complaints) related to content dissemination, including protection of vulnerable audiences and informed decision G4-M5 making and 158 accessibility, and processes for addressing these responses G4-M6 Methods to interact with audiences and results 40, 43 G4-M7 Actions taken to empower audiences through media literacy skills development and results obtained 134-135 ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 171 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT RELEVANT ISSUES Page RELEVANT ISSUES Page RELEVANT ISSUES Page Content Accesibility Financial Balance Non-discrimination in the work place 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 103-2 The management approach and its components 132 103-2 The management approach and its components 12, 15-16 103-2 The management approach and its components 106 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Social Action Employment stability Non-discrimination in broadcasted content 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 103-2 The management approach and its components 116 103-2 The management approach and its components 47, 52 103-2 The management approach and its components 57 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Appropriate programme labelling Ethical communications Privacy of personal life 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 103-2 The management approach and its components 38 103-2 The management approach and its components 23 103-2 The management approach and its components 57 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Media literacy Avoid corruption Intellectual property / copy right 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 103-2 The management approach and its components 35, 38 103-2 The management approach and its components 23-24 103-2 The management approach and its components 39 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Big Data Avoid surreptitious advertising Personal data protection 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 103-2 The management approach and its components 44 103-2 The management approach and its components 44 103-2 The management approach and its components 31-32 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Regulatory changes Avoid misleading advertising Talent recognition and retention 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 103-2 The management approach and its components 16 103-2 The management approach and its components 44 103-2 The management approach and its components 101 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Cybersecurity Avoid anti-competitive practices Occupational health and safety 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 103-2 The management approach and its components 33 103-2 The management approach and its components 23, 157 103-2 The management approach and its components 52-53 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Producer´s compliance Taxation Social awareness 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 103-2 The management approach and its components 24 103-2 The management approach and its components 95-96 103-2 The management approach and its components 134 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Work-life balance Training and professional development Transparency 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 103-2 The management approach and its components 52 103-2 The management approach and its components 51 103-2 The management approach and its components 95-96 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Resources consumption Equal opportunities 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 103-2 The management approach and its components 148-149 103-2 The management approach and its components 50 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Adapted content Climate Impact 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 103-2 The management approach and its components 42 103-2 The management approach and its components 146 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Sustainable criteria when choosing suppliers Innovation 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 103-2 The management approach and its components 25, 54 103-2 The management approach and its components 37 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Development of new markets Investment in technology 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 103-2 The management approach and its components XI-XII 103-2 The management approach and its components 43 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Work complaint mechanisms available Freedom of association 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 103-2 The management approach and its components 23, 50-51 103-2 The management approach and its components 48 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Gender diversity Freedom of expression 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 103-2 The management approach and its components 50 103-2 The management approach and its components 35, 57 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 172 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT CONTENT OF THE NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION STATEMENT Cotent of the non-financial information statement Content of Law 11/2018 INF Standard used Pg. of the report GRI 102-2 Activities, brands, products and services GRI 102-4 Location of operations Brief description of the group’s business model, which will include its business environment, Description of Group Business Model its organisation and structure, the markets in which it operates, its objectives and strategies, GRI 102-6 Markets served IV, 2-5, 12, 19-21, 42 business Model and the main factors and trends that may affect its future evolution. GRI 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities GRI 102-7 Scale of the organisation Policies implemented by the group, including the due diligence procedures implemented Policies to identify, assess, prevent and mitigate significant risks and impacts, and to verify and GRI 103-2 The management approach and its components 145 control, as well as the measures that have been adopted. The main risks related to issues linked to the group’s activities, including, where relevant GRI 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities and proportionate, their business relationships, products or services that may have negative effects in those areas, and since the group manages the said risks, explaining the Main Risks procedures used to detect and assess them according to Spanish, European or international 19-21, 30, 145, 151 benchmark frameworks for each area. Information on the impacts that have been identified GRI 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach must be included, providing a breakdown of them, in particular on the main short, medium and long-term risks. Current and foreseeable impacts of the company’s operations on the environment, and, GRI 102-15 Key impacts, risks and opportunities 19 ,21, 30,145,151 where appropriate, on health and safety GRI 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach 145 Note 4.25 · Environmental assessment or certification procedures GRI 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental, and social impacts Environmental Issues GRI 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes (Consolidated financial General statements) Information on · Resources used for environmental risk prevention GRI 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental, and social impacts Audit Committee environmental matters · Application of the precautionary principle GRI 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach Regulations Pg. 11, 12 14 Board of Directors’ Regulations · Provisions and guarantees for environmental risks GRI 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations (CCAA) Pg. 5 8 GRI 103-2 Management approach GRI 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Measures to prevent, reduce and/or rectify carbon emissions that seriously harm the Pollution environment, taking into consideration any form of air pollution specific to an activity, GRI 302-5 Reduction in energy requirements of products and services 145-147, 159 including noise and light pollution GRI 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions GRI 305-7 NOx, SOx and other significant air emissions GRI 103-2 Management approach (Effluents and waste) Circular economy and Measures of prevention, recycling, reuse and other forms of recovery and elimination of waste prevention and GRI 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume 148-150 waste. Actions to combat food waste management GRI 301-2 Recycled input materials used ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 173 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT Cotent of the non-financial information statement Content of Law 11/2018 INF Standard used Pg. of the report Water consumption and supply according to local restrictions GRI 303-1 Water extraction by source 148 GRI 103-2 Management approach (Environment) Consumption of raw materials and the measures adopted to improve efficiency in their use 148 GRI 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume GRI 102-2 Management approach (Energy) Sustainable use of resources GRI 302-1 Energy consumption within the organisation (energy coming from renewable and non-renewable sources) Energy: Direct and indirect consumption; Measures taken to improve energy efficiency. The 145-148. 159 use of renewable energy GRI 302-2 Energy consumption outside the organisation GRI 302-3 Energy Intensity GRI 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption GRI 305-1 Direct GHG emissions (Scope 1) Information on environmental issues GRI 305-2 Indirect GHG emissions from power generation (Scope 2) Greenhouse Gas Emissions 147, 159 GRI 305-3 Other indirect GHG emissions (Scope 3) GRI 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Climate change GRI 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities The measures adopted in order to adapt to the consequences of climate change GRI 103-2 Management approach and its components 30, 145-148 GRI 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions The voluntarily established long and short-term emission reduction targets to reduce GRI 103-2 Management approach (Reduction of GHG emissions ) 145-146 greenhouse gas emissions and the measures implemented for this purpose. Measures taken to preserve or restore biodiversity GRI 103-2 Management approach (Biodiversity) 159 Biodiversity protection GRI 304-1 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas Impacts caused by activities or operations in protected areas 159 and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected area GRI 103-2 Management approach and its components 9, 47 Board of Director’s Policies implemented by the group, including the due diligence procedures implemented GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Regulations Policies to identify, assess, prevent and mitigate significant risks and impacts, and to verify and 27-29 control, as well as the measures that have been adopted. GRI 102-35 Remuneration policies Articles of Association Article 37.3 and 56 Information on social and personnel-related The main risks related to these issues linked to the group’s activities, including, where GRI 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities matters relevant and proportionate, their business relationships, products or services that may have negative effects in those areas, and since the group manages the said risks, explaining the 19-21, 30 procedures used to detect and judge them according to Spanish, European or international Board of Director’s Main Risks benchmark frameworks for each. Information on the impacts that have been identified GRI 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes Regulations must be included, providing a breakdown of them, in particular on the main short, medium Pg. 5-8 and long-term risks. ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 174 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT Cotent of the non-financial information statement Content of Law 11/2018 INF Standard used Pg. of the report GRI 102-7 Scale of the organisation Total number and distribution of employees by gender, age, country and professional GRI 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 103-104, 152-153 category GRI 405-1. b) Percentage of employees per employee category in each of the following diversity categories: gender and age group Total number and distribution of work contract by types GRI 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 103-104, 152-153 Yearly average of permanent, temporary and part-time contracts by gender, age and GRI 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 103-104, 152-153 professional category GRI 401-1.b) Total number and rate of employee turnover during the reporting period, Number of dismissals by gender, age and professional category 153 by age group, gender and region. (in relation to dismissals) Average remuneration and its evolution by gender, age and professional category or GRI 405-2: Ratio of the basic salary and remuneration of women compared to men for 155 equivalent each employee category. GRI 405-2: Ratio of the basic salary and remuneration of women compared to men for Wage Gap 155 Employment each employee category. GRI 202-1 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum Wages for the same position or the Company’s average wage 155 wage GRI 102-35 Remuneration policies 9-10, 155 Board of Director’s GRI 102-36 Process for determining remuneration (for the management approach) Regulation The average remuneration of directors and managers, including variable remuneration, 27-29 expenses, compensation, payments to long-term savings plans and any other item by Articles of Association gender. Article 37.3 y 56 GRI 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans Direstors’ Annual Remuneration Information on social Report and personnel-related Implementation of policies related to work-life-balance GRI 103-2 Management approach (work-life-balance) 156 matters GRI 405-1. b) Percentage of employees per employee category in each of the following Disabled employees 154 diversity categories: gender and age group GRI 102-8. c) Total number of employees by employment type (full-time and part-time), Organisation of working hours by gender. 103-104, 152-153 GRI 103-2 Management approach (Work Organisation) Organisation of work GRI 403-2 Types and ratios of Work-Related Accidents, work-related illness, days lost Number of hours lost to absenteeism 154 and absenteeism, and number of deaths (section a) Measures aimed at providing work-life balance and promoting its shared use by both GRI 401-3 Parental leave 104, 107 parents GRI 103-2 Management approach Health and safety conditions in the workplace GRI 103-2 Management approach (Health and Safety) 52-53 Health and safety Accidents at work (frequency and seriousness) distributed by gender 403-9 Work-related Injuries 115, 154 Work-related illness (frequency and seriousness) by gender 403-10 Work-related ill health 115 GRI 102-43 Approach to stakeholder participation (it refers to trade unions and Collective Bargaining) Organisation of social dialogue, including procedures for notifying and consulting 48, 52 employees and negotiating with them GRI 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes GRI 403-1 Workers’ representatives on Health and Safety Committees Social relations Percentage of employees covered by collective agreements by country GRI 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 105 GRI 403-1 Workers’ representatives on Health and Safety Committees Results of collective agreements, particularly in relation to occupational health and safety GRI 403-4 Occupational health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with 52, 113 worker’s legal representatives ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 175 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT Cotent of the non-financial information statement Content of Law 11/2018 INF Standard used Pg. of the report GRI 103-2 Management approach (Training and Education) Implemented training policies GRI 404-2 Programmes for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance 51, 109 Training programmes Total number of hours of training courses by professional categories GRI 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 110, 154 GRI 103-2 Management approach (Diversity, equal opportunities and NonAccesibility Universal accessibility for persons with disabilities 49-50, 106, 154 discrimination) Measures adopted to promote equal treatment and opportunities for men and women GRI 103-2 Management approach (Diversity and equal opportunities) 49-51, 106 GRI 103-2 Management approach (Diversity, equal opportunities and NonEquality plans 49-51, 106 discrimination) Information on social and personnel-related GRI 103-2 Management approach (Employment) matters GRI 404-2 Programmes for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance Measures adopted to promote employment 51, 109 programmes Equality GRI 103-2 Management approach (Diversity, equal opportunities and NonProtocol against sexual harassment and harassment on the grounds of gender 49-51, 106 discrimination) GRI 103-2 Management approach (Diversity, equal opportunities and NonIntegration and universal accessibility for persons with disabilities 49-50, 106, 154 discrimination) GRI 103-2 Management approach (Diversity, equal opportunities and NonPolicy against any type of discrimination and, where appropriate, for managing diversity discrimination) 49-51, 106 GRI 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken GRI 103-2 Management approach and its components Policies implemented by the group, including the due diligence procedures implemented GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Policies to identify, assess, prevent and mitigate significant risks and impacts, and to verify and 48-49, 136-137 control the measures that have been adopted. GRI 410-1 Security personnel trained in human rights policies or procedures GRI 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures The main risks related to these issues linked to the group’s activities, including, where relevant and proportionate, their business relationships, products or services that may have negative effects in those areas, and since the group manages the said risks, explaining the Main Risks procedures used to detect and judge them according to Spanish, European or international GRI 102-15 Key impacts, risks and opportunities 48-49, 136-144 benchmark frameworks for each area. Information on the impacts that have been identified must be included, providing a breakdown of them, in particular on the main short, medium and long-term risks. Application of due diligence procedures in relation to human rights GRI 103-2 Management approach (Evaluation of Human Rights) 23, 156, 158 Information on respect GRI 103-2 Management approach (Evaluation of Human Rights) for human rights Prevention of the risks of human right’s violation and, where appropriate, measures to GRI 412-1 Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact 23, 49, 136-144, 155-156 mitigate, manage and rectify any possible abuses committed assessments GRI 410-1 Security personnel trained in human rights policies or procedures GRI 102-17 Mechanisms for offering advice and concerns about ethics 24, 156, 159 Human Rights GRI 103-2 Management approach (Evaluation of Human Rights) For Further Formal complaints for cases of human right’s violations information see Note GRI 411-1 Rights of Indigenous People 16 of the Consolidated GRI 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area Financial Statements Promotion of and compliance with the provisions of the fundamental conventions of the International Labour Organisation in relation to respect for freedom of association and GRI 103-2 Management approach (Non-discrimination; Freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining, the elimination of discrimination in employment and 49 collective bargaining; Child labour; Forced or compulsory labour and Human Rights) occupation; the elimination of forced or compulsory labour and the effective elimination of child labour. ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 176 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT Cotent of the non-financial information statement Content of Law 11/2018 INF Standard used Pg. of the report GRI 103-2 Management approach and its components Policies implemented by the group, including the due diligence procedures implemented Policies to identify, assess, prevent and mitigate significant risks and impacts, and to verify and GRI 103-3 Evaluation of management approach 23-25, 27-30 control the measures that have been adopted. GRI 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures The main risks related to these issues linked to the group’s activities, including, where GRI 102-15 Key impacts, risks and opportunities relevant and proportionate, their business relationships, products or services that may have negative effects in those areas, and since the group manages the said risks, explaining the GRI 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes Main Risks procedures used to detect and judge them according to Spanish, European or international 23-25, 27-30 benchmark frameworks for each area. Information on the impacts that have been identified must be included, providing a breakdown of them, in particular on the main short, medium GRI 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption Information relating to the fight against and long-term risks. corruption and bribery GRI 103-2 Management approach (it references to GRI 205 Anti-corruption) If the Measures adopted to prevent corruption and bribery 23-25, 27-30 company files the 205-2, it also covers this legal requirement with this indicator Measures to combat money laundering GRI 103-2 Management approach (Anti-corruption) 23, 157 GRI 103-2 Management approach (Anti-corruption) Corruption and bribery GRI 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed (Investments in the Contributions to foundations and not-for-profit organisations Community) 131, 157 GRI 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts GRI 415-1 Contributions to political parties and/or political reresentatives Policies implemented by the group, including the due diligence procedures implemented GRI 103-2 Management approach and its components Policies to identify, assess, prevent and mitigate significant risks and impacts, and to verify and 22-23, 161-164 control the measures that have been adopted. GRI 103-3 Evaluation of management approach The main risks related to these issues linked to the group’s activities, including, where GRI 102-15 Key impacts, risks and opportunities relevant and proportionate, their business relationships, products or services that may have negative effects in those areas, and since the group manages the said risks, explaining the Main Risks procedures used to detect and judge them according to Spanish, European or international 19-21, 158 benchmark frameworks for each area. Information on the impacts that have been identified GRI 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes must be included, providing a breakdown of them, in particular on the main short, medium and long-term risks. GRI 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported GRI 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts GRI 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers Information about the GRI 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments and company The impact of the company’s activity on employment and local development development programmes 12, 54-55, 131, 158 GRI 413-2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local communities The company’s GRI 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed (Investments in the commitment to Community) sustainable development GRI 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported GRI 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts GRI 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments and development programmes The impact of the company’s activity on local communities and on the region 12, 54-55, 131, 158 GRI 413-2 Operations with significant, both actual and potential, negative impacts on local communities GRI 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed (Investments in the Community) ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 177 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT Cotent of the non-financial information statement Content of Law 11/2018 INF Standard used Pg. of the report GRI 102-43 Approach to stakeholder participation Relations with key figures of local communities and modalities of dialogue with them GRI 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments and 17-18 development programmes The company’s commitment to GRI 102-13 Membership of associations sustainable development GRI 203-1 Infrastructure investments and support services Association and sponsorship actions 44, 67-68, 131, 133 GRI 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed (Investments in the Community) Inclusion of social, gender equality and environment issues in the procurement policies GRI 103-3 Management Approach (Environmental and Social assessment of suppliers) 25, 158 GRI 102-9 Supply chain GRI 103-3 Management approach (Environmental and Social assessment of suppliers) GRI 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria GRI 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken Consider the social and environmental responsibilities of supplier and subcontractors GRI 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of association and 25, 54-55, 158 collective bargaining may be at risk Subcontracting and GRI 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or providers compulsory labour GRI 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria GRI 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken GRI 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria Information about the Systems for supervision and auditing and their results GRI 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 158 company GRI 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken GRI 103-2 Management approach (Customers’ Health and Safety) GRI 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and service categories Measures for the health and safety of consumers 31, 35, 156 , 158 GRI 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services GRI 417-1 Requirements for product and service information and labelling Consumers GRI 102-17 Mechanisms for offering advice and concerns about ethics GRI 103-2 Management approach (Customers’ Health and Safety) GRI 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and Systems for lodging complaints, complaints received and their resolution losses of customer data 24, 156, 158 G4-M5 Number and nature of responses (feedback/ complaints) related to content dissemination, including protection of vulnerable audiences and informed decision making and accessibility, and processes for addressing these responses. XIII GRI 201-1 it refers to payments made to public authorities considering the OECD Profits obtained by country Consolidated financial guides http://www.oecd.org/tax/beps/country-by-country-reporting.htm statements 95 GRI 201-1 it refers to payments made to public authorities considering the OECD http:// Tax information Tax paid on profits Consolidated financial www.oecd.org/tax/beps/country-by-country-reporting.htm statements 97 Public subsidies received GRI 201-4 -4 Financial assistance received from government Consolidated financial statements ANNUAL CORPORATE REPORT 2019 178 PROLOGUE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE BUSINESS MEDIASET ABOUT THIS MODEL MODEL ESPAÑA IN 2019 REPORT DIRECTORY MEDIASET ESPAÑA Ctra. Fuencarral a Alcobendas, 4 28049 Madrid Tel.91 396 63 00 www.mediaset.es ■ Content General Management ■ Audio-visual Sales Management Tel.: 91 396 63 00 Tel.:91 396 63 00 Fax: 91 396 69 99 Fax: 91 395 93 24 Email: comercial@telecinco.es ■ General Management and Operations Department Tel.: 91 396 63 00 ■ External Production Management Fax: 91 396 66 92 Tel.: 91 396 63 00 Fax: 91 396 61 82 ■ News Management Tel.: 91 396 63 00 ■ Investor Relations Management Fax: 91 396 64 56 Tel.:91 396 63 00 Email: informativos@informativost5.com Fax: 91 396 66 92 Web: www.informativostelecinco.com y www.cuatro.com/noticias/ Email: inversores@telecinco.es ■ Communications and External Relations Management. ■ General Corporate Management Tel.: 91 396 63 00 Tel.:91 396 61 88 Fax: 91 396 68 42 Fax: 91 396 62 84 Email: gabinetedeprensa@telecinco.es Email: rc@telecinco.es PUBLIESPAÑA TELECINCO CINEMA CONECTA 5 MEDIACINCO CARTERA Ctra. Fuencarral a Alcobendas, 4 Ctra. Fuencarral a Alcobendas, 4 Ctra. Fuencarral a Alcobendas, 4 Ctra. Fuencarral a Alcobendas, 4 28049 Madrid 28049 Madrid 28049 Madrid 28049 Madrid Tel.: 91 395 90 00 Tel.: 91 396 63 00 Tel.: 91 396 63 00 Tel.: 91 396 63 00 Fax: 91 395 90 10 Fax: 91 396 61 82 Fax: 91 396 61 06 Fax: 91 396 66 92 Web: www.publiesp.es Web: www.telecinco.es/t5cinema/
