Missionpharma COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2020 CEO STATEMENT Missionpharma 2 CEO STATEMENT Businesses have an increasingly important role to play in securing a sustainable future and Missionpharma is no exception. That is why we are working hard to improve the financial and strategic health of our business. We are happy to confirm our commitment to the We will continue our focus on contributing to the principles of responsible business conduct promoted by Ten Principles for human rights, labour, environment the UN Global Compact. and anti-corruption and the broader Sustainable Development Goals, and we will expand our measuring Missionpharma works passionately to advance global of impact. In the coming year, we plan to further healthcare and we run our business with integrity strengthen our execution power by transforming and respect for the communities in which we operate. strategies into concrete actions. Sustainability is an integrated part of our operations, and our ambition is to continuously improve business Finally, I would like to thank all of Missionpharma’s operations across our value chain, making them employees, customers and partners for their dedication, more efficient, environmentally friendly and socially hard work and important achievements during the year. responsible. Together we will strive to deliver intelligent solutions and to reach even more people with our products and This Communication on Progress (COP) report covers services in the year to come. the Missionpharma Group and summarises our actions in accordance with the requirements as a participant to the UN Global Compact. In this, our second, report we present our approach to, and results within, human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. All figures included in this report cover the period 1/4 2019 to 31/3 2020 (unless otherwise mentioned), CHRISTIAN OVERGAARD which corresponds to Missionpharma’s financial year. CEO, Missionpharma Group ABOUT MISSIONPHARMA Missionpharma 2 3 ABOUT MISSIONPHARMA WE ARE LONG HISTORY SUSTAINABILITY A leading supplier of healthcare Missionpharma's activities Our activities are targeted towards products to national health commenced in 1975 and the company creating a platform for sustainable programmes, international institutions has been a part of Eurapharma and the growth with respect for human rights, and donor-funded global projects. CFAO Group since 2012. labour, environment and anti-corruption. PRODUCTS GLOBAL PRESENCE OUR PURPOSE Our products include generic pharMissionpharma employs in total 150 Missionpharma contributes to maceuticals, medical consumables, people in Denmark, India, China progress in Africa by strengthening hospital equipment and medical kits and Zambia. In addition, we have tomorrow’s healthcare with intelligent as well as a wide range of healthlocal representatives in over 30 solutions and trustful partnerships. care services. countries worldwide. ABOUT MISSIONPHARMA Missionpharma 4 ABOUT MISSIONPHARMA For further information please visit: Missionpharma: www.missionpharma.com Eurapharma: www.eurapharma.com Missionpharma is a leading supplier of generic pharmaceuticals, CFAO Group: www.cfao.com medical consumables, hospital equipment and medical kits to TTC: www.toyota-tsusho.com national health programmes, international institutions and donorfunded projects globally. We have offices in Denmark, India, China and Zambia by Toyota Tsusho Corporation (TTC) in Japan. This and employ over 150 people. Our head office is based integration enables us to further establish and develop in Denmark, from where our overall business activities our wholesale operations and to extend our operational are managed. In addition, we have a comprehensive reach. network of local representatives in over 30 countries We fundamentally believe that access to the highest worldwide. attainable standard of safe and affordable health Missionpharma is a wholesaler specialised in managing products and services should be a human right. By the entire supply chain of healthcare products from delivering solutions with a long-term positive impact, sourcing and procurement of the right product at the we grow the communities we work in – and we grow right price, through comprehensive quality assurance to Missionpharma. delivery at the final destination. Products are primarily We focus on continuously improving our market position sourced and procured from manufacturers based in and at the same time developing new business areas Europe and Asia and supplied to customers outside EU; through focused strategic initiatives. primarily in Africa and Asia. We are motivated by creating value to all our We are a part of Eurapharma, which is owned by the stakeholders, but our core focus is to increase access CFAO Group – a multinational distributor of brands, to essential healthcare products in our markets at particularly within mobility, healthcare, consumer goods affordable prices and a consistently high quality. and technology & energy – and ultimately owned 40,000 CBM GDP CERTIFIED 300,000 OF HEALTHCARE PRODUCTS OWN WAREHOUSES IN MEDICAL KITS DELIVERED TO CLIENTS ANNUALLY DENMARK AND INDIA MANUFACTURED EVERY YEAR ABOUT MISSIONPHARMA Missionpharma 5 OUR PRODUCTS Our range of products comprises all essential medicines and medical supplies, including a full range of hospital equipment and matching services. Our expertise also covers development, assembly and packing of medical kits on demand. GENERIC MEDICAL MEDICAL HOSPITAL PHARMACEUTICALS CONSUMABLES KITS EQUIPMENT A complete range of generic Cost-effective consumables, A variety of standard kits A large portfolio of pharmaceuticals in all ranging from syringes and and the ability to develop hospital equipment, dosage forms, as per the needles to gloves, cotton customised kits – all in strict including technical support World Health Organization wool and surgical accordance with customer and after-sales services. (WHO) Model Lists of instruments. requirements. Essential Medicines. ABOUT MISSIONPHARMA Missionpharma 6 OUR BUSINESS MODEL We are founded on a strong desire to increase access to safe and affordable healthcare globally and to integrate responsibility in the way we act as a company. BUSINESS MODEL Our in-depth understanding of customer needs and Our business model, our strategic focus, our operating environments enable us to market and sell organisation and the values upon which we perform impactful solutions. We focus greatly on continuously our business form a solid foundation for living our improving our market position in relation to customers, purpose, achieving our long term targets and creating markets and products, while at the same time optimizing shared value for all our stakeholders. At the same time, contract execution and simultaneously developing new our business activities are targeted towards creating a business areas through strategic initiatives. platform for sustainable growth. Missionpharma focuses on creating value towards all Missionpharma specialises in developing products interested parties, including: and projects in collaboration with customers and local • Customers and patients in our markets by securing partners. Our solutions are based on knowledge, availability of essential health care products at experience, commitment and hard work. They are affordable prices and a consistently high quality developed always with respect for and in close dialogue with our partners. • The societal challenges by actively contributing to the UN Global Compact’s Ten Principles for human BUSINESS APPROACH rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption Our proven ability to handle complex supply projects ensures reliable delivery to the final destination, even to • Providing a safe and healthy work environment for the most remote clinics or health posts. Handling product our employees and foster an inclusive culture where sourcing with multiple manufacturers and performing people can grow and develop sufficient quality assurance and quality control can be substantial tasks. Missionpharma specialises in • Securing our shareholders a competitive total return managing the entire range of activities involved and on investment offers a single-point-of-contact approach throughout the entire project. ABOUT MISSIONPHARMA Missionpharma 7 OUR GROUP Toyota Tsusho Corporation is Employees: 59,000 the trading arm of the Toyota Group Annual turnover: EUR 60 billion TOYOTA TSUSHO and a specialist within the automotive, Operational reach: CORPORATION machinery, energy, chemicals and 1,000 group companies in 120 countries food industries in both domestic and around the world overseas markets. CFAO Group is a multinational Employees: 22,000 distributor of brands, particularly Annual turnover: EUR 5.5 billion within equipment, healthcare and Operational reach: CFAO consumer goods. The Group has 145 operating offices in 36 countries in a strong presence on the African Africa and 9 overseas territories continent. Eurapharma is a leading distributor Employees: 3,100 of branded-originator pharmaceuticals Annual turnover: EUR 1.5 billion to the private market in Africa. Operational reach: EURAPHARMA Eurapharma is represented in Africa by 40 operating subsidiaries in 23 countries its own distribution companies: Laborex, in Africa and 7 French overseas territories Continental Pharmaceutique and E.P. DIS. MISSIONPHARMA A complete group chart is found on Missionpharma's website on https://missionpharma.com/about/#global-set-up SUSTAINABILITY Missionpharma 8 SUSTAINABILITY COMMITMENTS Our most important positive impact on society lies in our contribution to facilitating access to safe and affordable healthcare and thereby improving quality of life for millions of people worldwide. OUR SUSTAINABILITY FRAMEWORK WE CREATE SHARED VALUE As a global business with activities in numerous counWe seek to generate economic, environmental and tries, we not only have an opportunity – but also an social value to the people and communities we engage obligation – to address, influence, support and change with. Our sustainability commitment is founded in this global healthcare issues. triple bottom line approach, which ensures that business decisions balance financial, social and environmental Our leading market position and many activities in counconsiderations, always keeping in mind the best interests tries around the world allow us to make an impact on of our stakeholders. many people’s lives, whether they are patients, partners, customers or employees. Making a difference for our As a member of the UN Global Compact we conduct our stakeholders is the core goal of our company. It’s why we business activities with respect for the Ten Principles for do what we do. human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption and the relevant UN Sustainable Development Goals. We know that contributing to better healthcare is no simple task. It takes in-depth understanding of the needs We also work actively to identify, prevent and mitigate of customers and patients, the local business environment any adverse impacts and risks associated with our and the entire healthcare systems in our markets. sustainability commitments. Missionpharma is committed to raising the bar for responsibility and sustainability by continuously strengthening our work with the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact within human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. SUSTAINABILITY Missionpharma 9 SUSTAINABILITY COMMITMENTS Missionpharma has defined four sustainability commitments – in line with the UN Global Compact principles – which we adhere to and seek to continuously develop and integrate further into our global organisation. We translate our commitments as follows: HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION COMMITMENT 1 COMMITMENT 2 COMMITMENT 3 COMMITMENT 4 We improve We empower We reduce our We stand for global health people environmental footprint integrity by making safe by fostering an inclusive by striving to integrate by aiming for the highest healthcare affordable. culture where people can environmental responsibility ethical standards in our grow and develop. into all our activities. business practices. SUSTAINABILITY Missionpharma 10 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS Missionpharma is committed to contributing to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) as they inspire our strategies and targets and constitute important elements towards strengthening our corporate sustainability. GOOD HEALTH AND WELL-BEING contribute to large-scale positive transformations, as this Missionpharma has been a member of the UN Global target directly relates to our focused efforts to improve SDG 3: GOOD HEALTH AND WELL-BEING Compact since 2018 and it is a natural consequence of access to safe healthcare globally. In addition to Goal 3, Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages. our commitment to the Ten Principles to engage with the we contribute particularly to Goal 8, Decent work and Missionpharma primarily contribute to Goal 3 and in parSustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The goals are economic growth and Goal 13, Climate action. ticular to the following sub-targets: closely interlinked with our sustainability commitments for In the coming years, we will focus even more on defining human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. 3.1: Reduce the global maternal where we can best contribute to the SDGs and establish mortality ratio We have just begun the process of selecting the SDGs initiatives required to achieve them. 3.2: End preventable deaths of newborns and children to which we can contribute the most. Looking across the 3.3: End the epidemics of AIDS, On the following pages, we seek to make our sustainSDGs and underlying targets, Missionpharma touches, tuberculosis, malaria ability efforts tangible for employees and stakeholders by 3.4: Reduce premature mortality from directly or indirectly, many of the goals. describing our policies and contributions and measure non-communicable diseases Goal 3, Good health and well-being, is by far the goal, our impact. 3.7: Ensure access to sexual and reproductive healthcare services where Missionpharma has the ability to significantly 3.8: Achieve universal health coverage SDG 8: DECENT WORK AND MISSIONPHARMA’S CONTRIBUTION TO GOAL 8 MISSIONPHARMA’S CONTRIBUTION TO GOAL 3 ECONOMIC GROWTH Employees count as the most important resource in our Our activities reach further than making generics available; Promote sustained, inclusive and organization. Therefore, we do our best to protect the we organize dedicated initiatives to improve maternal and sustainable economic growth, full well-being of our employees by providing a safe and child health, we supply product to combat HIV, TB and and productive employment and healthy work environment and fostering an inclusive malaria epidemics, we provide products to prevent and treat decent work for all. culture where people can grow and develop. non-communicable diseases (NCDs), we offer solutions to address family planning issues and we improve access to universal health coverage through providing access to quality SDG 13: CLIMATE ACTION MISSIONPHARMA’S CONTRIBUTION TO GOAL 13 medicine and vaccines. Take urgent action to combat climate With climate changes being among the world’s biggest change and its impacts. challenges we have an obligation to continuously improve We provide these quality-assured healthcare products to our environmental performance and to define concrete international organisations, NGOs and Ministries of Health, goals to reduce our environmental footprint every year. especially in Africa HUMAN RIGHTS Missionpharma 11 HUMAN RIGHTS We believe that access to safe and affordable medicine is a human right. Therefore, our most significant contribution to society is to ensure that our products reach those who need them. HUMAN RIGHTS AT MISSIONPHARMA Our Group has set up a Global Code of Conduct & EthRESULTS IN 2019/20 In many countries medical supplies from Missionpharma ics, which all employees are trained in and adhere to: • Continued contribution to SDG Goal 3 by supplying constitute the backbone of local healthcare solutions. • We do not engage or get involved in any more than 40,000 cbm of healthcare products Therefore, we work towards continuously refining our funbusiness that is against human dignity • No incidents involving any breach of international damental purpose: To ensure timely delivery of quality-as• We do not discriminate based on race, colour, genconventions or Group Code of Conduct & Ethics were sured medicine and medical devices to those who need der, religion or national origin reported in FY 2019/20 it. This is also why Goal 3, Good health and well-being, • We do not tolerate any form of harassment • Incorporation of assessment of selected human rights is the SDG we mostly contribute to. • We do not deal with any person that engages impacts as a part of our manufacturer audit proin or is involved with any human rights abuses gramme In addition to contributing to making a difference for mil• We do not get involved in any child labour, human lions of people every year, it is our obligation to protect trafficking or any other kind of forced or involuntary • 46 GMP audits of manufacturers performed* human rights within our organisation and, to the largest labour *Our audit schedule was impacted in Q1-2020 due to COVID-19 pandemics, which led to possible extent, to influence those of our manufacturers cancellation of 9 confirmed audits and partners throughout the value chain. We are guided PROGRESS AMBITIONS AND TARGETS by national laws and internationally proclaimed human In FY 2019/20, we complemented our established • We want to uphold high ethical standards throughout rights. Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) audit programme our value chain by being accountable and transparby incorporating assessment of selected human rights ent, respecting human rights and maintaining sound HUMAN RIGHTS POLICY impacts with our manufacturers, such as child labour, governance Missionpharma has a zero tolerance against infringehuman trafficking and ethical practices. The WHO • We will continuously monitor our potential human ment of human rights and particularly the use of child Technical Report Series No. 986 and ILO Declaration rights risks through our due diligence processes and labour. We, and our partners, must at least meet the on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work serve as whistle-blower scheme, and we aim at further increasminimum requirement of national legislation in the area guidelines for our approach to the use of child labour. ing assessment of manufacturers and partners towards of labour law. We do not accept forced labour and we This allows us to improve our manufacturer selection and obtaining a higher level of control of their protection work to assure that no breach of local and globals regassessment processes by identifying potential issues early of human rights ulations takes place in any of our operations or with our and accurately. Suspected malpractices are reported and • We will continue our extensive contribution to Goal 3 partners, to the extent possible. escalated to Missonpharma’s Compliance Committee for by focusing on increasing access to safe and affordfurther evaluation and decision on accurate measures. able healthcare worldwide HUMAN RIGHTS Missionpharma 12 HUMAN RIGHTS Examples of impact and contribution in FY 2019/20 NO. 1 300,000 SUPPLIER OF GENERIC DMPA MEDICAL KITS MANUFACTURED EVERY YEAR Missionpharma is a leading supplier of generic Missionpharma is the world’s largest supplier of medical kits to the public Depot Medroxyprogesterone Acetate (DMPA). market in Africa having more than 30 years’ experience. Medroxyprogesterone is a hormonal injectable A medical kit typically contains both pharmaceuticals and consumables and medication providing effective is designed to treat between 1 and 1,000 people. Kits improve practical birth control. use by ensuring availability of all products at the same time in addition to providing efficiency in the supply chain, if optimally tailored to the specific Missionpharma has reached a position as needs and medical purposes in the country. the biggest supplier of the generic DMPA to donor-funded programmes worldwide a result of a long-term focused strategic approach to product and supplier development. 32 MILLION OUTPATIENT CONSULTATIONS IN MOZAMBIQUE By delivering more than 46,000 medical kits to Mozambique, we have facilitated close to 32 million outpatient consultations in rural health facilities. The kits ensure availability of basic medicine in urban and rural areas in Mozambique and address the most common health conditions seen at the health centres and health posts. In addition, the kits ensure easy supply chain management and handling of medication by less educated staff. The composition of the kits is based on the most common diseases seen at the health facilities in the country, such as diarrhoea, respiratory and gastrointestinal complications, malaria, anaemia, post-partum haemorrhage and numerous infections. HUMAN RIGHTS Missionpharma 13 HUMAN RIGHTS Examples of impact and contribution in FY 2019/20 NO. 1 2-8°C HIGHEST EXPORT AWARD SECURING THE COLD CHAIN FOR INSULIN Missionpharma Logistics India wins the ‘Highest Export Securing temperature stability is vital when transAward’ for the 6th time. porting medicine. Insulin, in particular, is a temperature-sensitive product requiring strict cold chain In March 2020, Missionpharma Logistics in Kandla was handling throughout the supply chain. recognised for our performance in exports and won the award as the ‘Highest Exporter’ by Kandla Special In order to secure the cold chain, and to ensure Economic Zone (KASEZ) authorities in the category Drugs, maximum protection of products, we use a CoolPall™ Pharmaceuticals and Allied Products. Flex packaging solution with air transportation, which keeps the insulin at the requested storage requireThis is our 6th award since 2012, and it is a true honour ments of 2-8°C throughout the entire transit time. to again be recognised for our efforts. IMPLANT KIT PROVIDES INCREASED CONTROL OF WOMEN’S REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH The contraceptive implant, Etonogestrel, is a highly effective (99.95%), convenient and rapidly reversible long-acting method of contraception providing three years’ efficacy. In its capacity as an implant, it provides anonymity of use, thereby supplying women increased control of their reproductive health. In cooperation with the Ethiopian government, Missionpharma arranges for continuous supply of Implant kits, packed in our warehouse in Lynge. In addition to the sub-dermal Etonogestrel implant, the kit contains essential products to conduct a safe procedure, such as gloves, gauze, local anesthetics and syringes. LABOUR Missionpharma 14 LABOUR Our most important asset is our employees. We aspire to provide an inspiring and performance-oriented work environment in which our people have equal opportunities and thrive both personally and professionally. LABOUR AT MISSIONPHARMA introduced a reduced version of the same in all locations RESULTS IN 2019/20 We believe that an engaged workforce delivers better abroad in FY 2019/20. We experienced a high re• No reporting of safety-related incidents or labour rights results. We want to offer challenging and purposeful sponse rate and a satisfactory level of positive responses violations in any of our locations work with opportunities for personal and professional to the question about overall satisfaction with Mission• Annual personal development talks coverage across development. We do so by providing a safe and healthy pharma as a workplace. locations: >90% work environment and by fostering an inclusive culture This year we have expanded the annual personal de• % female managers increased from 18% to 24% where people can grow and develop. velopment talks to include employees in all locations • Selected results from the global engagement survey: We believe that a workforce with diverse backgrounds, reaching a coverage of more than 90% of all employees Average response rate: 97% thinking and personalities combined with the right capaglobally. Satisfaction with Missionpharma as a workplace: bilities enables better performance and thereby drives DK: 93% positive responses Supporting our strategy of working smarter, we have arRemaining locations: 65% positive responses. better results. As an illustration of our embracement of ranged workshops on how to improve meeting efficiency diversity, we employ 14 different nationalities globally by AMBITIONS AND TARGETS and management. We also engage with our employees the end of this FY. • We want to remain an attractive employer and to foster through various regional initiatives that enable employee development, increase employee motivation, drive safety a culture where employees develop personally and LABOUR POLICY professionally We protect labor rights and provide a safe working enand encourage healthy lifestyles. vironment for our employees. We work actively to elimi• We are including behavioral skills in our annual perAGE DISTRIBUTION* SENIORITY * nate all forms of forced, compulsory and child labour in sonal development talks in FY 2020/21 2% our supply chain and in any of our affiliates. We promote 7% 3% 11% 5% 9% • We constantly strive towards a more balanced gender social diversity, we fight discrimination and we strive to 8% <25 years 25-2925% years < 1 year composition in our management teams provide a fulfilling and inclusive environment for every 30-39 years 23% 1 < 3 years 40-49 years 3 < 5 years GENDER DISTRIBUTION employee. We always seek a fair balance between men 50-54 years GENDER DISTRIBUTION* AMONG MANAGERS* 26% 5 < 10 years 2% 5% 9% and women among our staff, as we believe it benefits our 7% 3% 11% 43% 50-59 years 10 < 20 years 60+ years 2018/19 2019/20 2018/19 2019/20 20+ years working environment and ability to develop. 8% <25 years 25% 22% 16% < 1 year 30% 28% 18% 24% 2% 5% years 25-29 9% 23% 1 < 3 years 7% 3% 30-39 years PROGRESS 8% 11% <25 years 40-49 years 3 < 5 years 25% < 1 year 5 < 10 years Further to completing the traditional comprehensive Great 26% 25-29 years 50-54 years 23% 1 < 3 years 10 < 20 years 70% 72% 82% *Group 76% 30-39 years 50-59 years 3 < 5 years 20+ years ® Place to Work survey among our Danish employees, we 43% 16% 40-49 years 60+ years 22% 5 < 10 years 50-54 years *Group figures 26% 10 < 20 years figures 50-59 years 20+ years LABOUR Missionpharma 15 LABOUR Examples of impact and contribution in FY 2019/20 2.18% 89% AVERAGE SICKNESS ABSENCE IN AVERAGE GREAT PLACE TO WORK® TRUST INDEX SCORE (DENMARK ONLY) FY 2019/20* This year we have expanded our annual enstrategy into practical implications at deSickness absence among Missionpharma’s Danish gagement survey to cover all locations globally. partment level. The results from the global employees is relatively stable, however, with a We are proud of obtaining a Trust Index score survey to the question “Taking everything into slight increase in the average number of sick of 89% positive responses (average results of account, I would say this is a great place to days this year compared to last year. Sickness all 59 statements) in the Danish Great Place to work” were distributed as follows: absence in Missionpharma is significantly lower Work® survey. LOCATION % POSITIVE RESPONSES than the average of 3.7% in 2019 among Danish The results from the global engagement survey Denmark 93% companies. revealed that our people find a strong sense of Ahmedabad 62.5% *Covers Denmark only Kandla 86.7% purpose in working for Missionpharma but also China 100% that there is a demand for translating our Zambia 34.8% STRATEGY COMMUNICATION OF COMPANY STRATEGY This year’s global employee engagement surveys revealed a distinct need for increased communication about Missionpharma’s strategy and the implications of the strategy at department and personal level. Missionpharma’s Leadership Team has focused on transforming this input into concrete actions. Adding to the importance of effective communication, our employees in all locations are affected by the COVID-19 situation, and most have been working from home for a longer or shorter period of time. This has triggered an increased need for information sharing within our organisation, why global virtual conference meetings have been significantly scaled up to ensure increased interaction and information-sharing between all locations on strategic as well as operational topics. LABOUR Missionpharma 16 LABOUR Examples of impact and contribution in FY 2019/20 TRAINING PERSONAL AND PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT FOR MANAGERS AND EMPLOYEES We believe in strong leadership as a prerequisite for a successful organisation where people thrive and develop. Motivating and skilled managers are necessary qualifications for attracting and retaining a strong and dedicated employee base. In the coming year we will therefore continue to develop the training and support we provide for our managers with particular focus on team development, change management, conflict handling and appreciative leadership. In addition to enhancing the managerial and leadership competences among our managers in the coming year, we have focused on developing the technical, commercial and personal skills among employees in our global organisation this year. We have engaged with our employees through various regional initiatives that enable employee personal and professional development, strengthen coordination, communication and motivation, promote safety and encourage healthy lifestyles. Past and future training requirements are captured in our bi-annual personal performance evaluation talks. AMO WORKING ENVIRONMENT ORGANISATION Our working environment organisation (AMO) focuses on ensuring a healthy psychological and physical environment in Missionpharma Lynge. Since we conducted the statutory workplace assessment to measure the psychological, physical and ergonomic work environment in Missionpharma Lynge by the end of 2018, our Working Environment Organisation has focused on ensuring structure and progress in the work performed. Among other initiatives, the organisation has coordinated upgrade of air conditioning in our warehouse, arranged first aid course, procured a defibrillator, updated fire instructions and evacuation plan and outlined a comprehensive maintenance plan for our indoor and outdoor facilities in Lynge. ENVIRONMENT Missionpharma 17 ENVIRONMENT As a healthcare company, we want to minimise the impact of our business operations on the environment – not only today, but also well into the future. ENVIRONMENTAL APPROACH AT MISSIONPHARMA addressed during periodical GMP audits, but we also RESULTS IN 2019/20 Being one of the world's largest suppliers to healthcare realize that there are limitations to our ability to influence • Reduction in CO2 emissions in FY 19/20: 150 tons programmes worldwide, transportation of goods constimanufacturers' environmental policies. We are, however, tutes by far the biggest environmental impact within our planning to intensify monitoring of and requirements to • Transitioning to green energy in the Danish headpart of the supply chain. That’s why we plan for the most manufacturers going forward. quarters, leading to our electricity consumption being environmentally effective mode of transportation, given covered by renewable energy from offshore wind farms the circumstances. Where at all possible, we seek to miniPROGRESS mize transportation distances by packing and shipping Realizing that we have limited influence on customers' • Decrease in destruction of expired pharmaceuticals by products directly from India and China to our customers – transportation preferences, and thereby the negative 36% globally (from 9,929 kg to 6,326 kg) and thereby avoiding passage through Europe. impact this may have on the environment, we have chosen to focus our efforts on where we can directly make a However, as a project-oriented company, we are often positive contribution. AMBITIONS AND TARGETS subject to a range of external factors on which we have • Expansion of solar power system in Kandla to 200 kW limited influence. Still, we always try to influence our Our logistics hub in Kandla account for 67% of the Misin FY 2020/21 providing and a 40% coverage of total customers’ and suppliers’ transportation preferences tosionpharma Group's total energy consumption. In Q4 power requirements wards the method with the lowest possible environmental 2018, Missionpharma Kandla installed a 100 kW solar impact. power system, which has resulted in a reduction in CO2 • Total reduction in annual CO2 emissions in Kandla of emissions of 150 tons in FY 2019/20. In line with orig250 tons in FY 2020/21 ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY inal expansion plans, we will be installing additionally We want to reduce our environmental footprint every 100 kW green power in Q2 2020, which brings our • Continued focus on implementing scheduled environyear. We strive to integrate environmental responsibility total solar power capacity up to 200 kW generating an mental investment plans, incl. increased efficiency in into all our activities and, to the largest possible extent, expected reduction of CO2 emissions of 250 tons per utilization of solar power, water conservation and harto contribute reducing our carbon footprint throughout year. vesting as well as evaluating and defining efforts within the entire supply chain. We want to minimize electricity recycling of packing material consumption in our own locations and we encourage Along with the solar power installations, we have inemployees to use resources sustainably and to create a stalled 10 new air conditioners to maintain all warehous• Continued focus on influencing customers’ transportaclimate-conscious working environment. es under temperature control and provide better work tion preferences towards the method with the lowest environment for our employees as well as contract labour. possible environmental impact To limit the negative environmental impacts of pharmaceutical manufacturing and ensure constant improveWith the increased capacity of 200 kW solar power we • Strengthen our control of and requirements to manufacments, we keep manufacturers’ social and environmental expect to generate enough power to cover close to 40% turers' environmental responsibilities responsibility top of mind at all times. This is particularly of our total electricity needs in Kandla, including the power requirements for the 10 new air conditioners. ENVIRONMENT Missionpharma 18 ENVIRONMENT Examples of impact and contribution in FY 2019/20 150 TONS REDUCTION IN CO2 DONATION EMISSIONS IN KANDLA Our investment in a 100 kW solar panel system in Missionharma Kandla has resulted in a reduction in CO2 emissions of 150 tons and a generation more TO SUPPORT ELIMINATION OF PLASTIC than of 220,000 kWh green energy in FY 2019/20. POLLUTION IN OUR WATERWAYS With the ongoing expansion of solar power capacInstead of dispatching the traditional Christmas gifts to ity to 200 kW solar power, we expect to generate our clients, Missionpharma chose this year to donate the enough power to cover close to 40% of our total equivalent amount to charity. electricity needs in Kandla. Plastic Oceans is an non-profit environmental organisation working on direct action to eliminate plastic pollution in our waterways on a global scale. TRANSPORTATION VOLUMES FOR THE PERIOD 1/4 2019 31/3 2020: Plastic Oceans engages with school and community education, workshops, shoreline clean-ups and supports 27,500 m³ 123 tons 12,250 m³ local processing applications of waste plastic. Plastic Ocean’s cause directly supports the Sustainable Development Goals 12, 13, 14, 15 and 17. We are very happy to be able to contribute to this important cause. SEAFREIGHT AIRFREIGHT INLAND TRANSPORTATION ENVIRONMENT Missionpharma 19 ENVIRONMENT Examples of impact and contribution in FY 2019/20 36% FSC CERTIFIED DECREASE IN GLOBAL DESTRUCTION SHIPPER CARTONS OF EXPIRED PHARMACEUTICALS With an annual consumption of up to 150,000 shipper carExpired or damaged medicines constitute the tons in Lynge alone, it makes a difference to use recyclable majority of hazardous waste generated by packaging material. Missionpharma. Strict inventory management procedures limit quantities sent for destruction. FSC certification is considered the highest standard desigIn 2019/20 our level of destructed pharmanation for wood harvested from forests that are responsibly ceuticals decreased by 36%. managed, socially beneficial, environmentally conscious, and economically viable. RECYCLING All shipper cartons used in Lynge are FSC certified and made from 100% recyclable and biodegradable material. WATER RECYCLING AND They are of very high quality, strength RAIN WATER HARVESTING and durability and are proven to be re-used by the customers for various In Missionpharma Kandla, we have initiated the first purposes at the final destination, which phase of our water recycling and rain water harvesting extends the lifetime of the packing maproject, where we recycle the water used for cleaning terial. of solar panels and waste water from the water purification system for irrigation and cleaning use. We In Kandla we segregate scrap cartons, and use them for intend to store the rain water and use it over a period recycling to form pulp. The pulp is utilised to produce of time to benefit our green surroundings. cardboard separator sheets, carton corners and protective packing material, which are widely used in connection with In addition, Missionpharma Logistics has donated kit packing. Our pallets are reusable and made of 500,000 plants to the Kandla Special Economic Zone. biodegradable wood. ANTI-CORRUPTION Missionpharma 20 ANTI-CORRUPTION Missionpharma is committed to maintaining trust throughout our operations and to conducting business with integrity and high ethical standards with respect for applicable laws, regulations and internal policies. ANTI-CORRUPTION AT MISSIONPHARMA Our compliance policies cover a number of areas, includRESULTS IN 2019/20 Integrity is one of our core values. At Missionpharma, we ing anti-bribery and anti-corruption, facilitation payments, • Renewal of all contracts with our local representatives are committed to upholding high business standards and donations and gifts and conflict of interest. Policies are to include new anti-bribery and anti-corruption policy promoting good business conduct globally in our intersupported by a whistle-blower system, where employees and whistle-blower procedure actions with customers, healthcare professionals, public and external stakeholders can report concerns in a se• Compliance training conducted of local representaofficials and other business partners. cure and confidential way. tives in Missionpharma focus countries Missionpharma's compliance policies are applicable to Our Compliance Committee meets every six weeks to • Three reports received through our whistle-blower all employees of the Missionpharma Group as well as discuss relevant sustainability and compliance issues and system. Cases have been investigated and dealt with our local representatives and, to a certain extent, our processes and decide upon actions. according to procedures and are closed. All cases partners. The policies align our activities, promote uniPROGRESS are reported to our Group Compliance Officer and form procedures and enable us to live up to our promise Our continued focus on strengthening our business and MIssionpharma's Board of being a trusted business partner. improving our profitability direct us to encourage a mind• Renewal of Missionpharma's certification through the All employees and local representatives receive training set towards transparency, compliance and reporting. We anti-bribery business association, TRACE International in our compliance policies and practices and commit urge employees and partners to always raise their conto adhere to them in writing. New employees undergo cerns about irregularities or improper actions and we will mandatory training shortly after their employment. continue to communicate this globally to create a culture AMBITIONS AND TARGETS of full transparency. • We will develop and strengthen our compliance proPOLICIES AND PROCEDURES cedures further in 2020/21 Missionpharma has implemented a comprehensive The successful renewal of our certification through the vetting programme, which all business relations must globally recognised anti-bribery business association, • We will provide online compliance training propass through to ensure compliance with Missionpharma TRACE International, demonstrates our continued commitgrammes for all commercial employees standards of integrity. Partners are always screened for ment to comply with national and international anti-brib• We will increase depth of our due diligence screening critical information on persons and entities and our local ery laws and to demonstrate commercial transparency of suppliers and partners representatives go through a rigorous due diligence protowards our business partners. We are in the process of cess and approval procedure. enrolling digital compliance training tools in our organisation to improve training management, consistency and measurability. ANTI-CORRUPTION Missionpharma 21 ANTI-CORRUPTION Examples of impact and contribution in FY 2019/20 ONLINE TRAINING PLANNED EXPANSION OF TRAINING PLATFORM With the aim of further mitigating risk of compliance violations, we are planning online compliance training for employees, and subsequently selected third parties, in order to strengthen their knowledge on key regulations within topics such as anti-bribery, anti-corruption and conflict of interest. By supplementing our existing compliance programme with additional training via e-learning, we increase awareWHISTLE-BLOWER ness, improve training management, enhance consistency, expand reach and increase measurability of our training efforts. ENCOURAGING A TRANSPARENT CULTURE AGENT Missionpharma’s compliance policies are supported by a whistle-blower system and associated procedures, which alSEMINAR lows employees and external stakeholders to report concerns in a secure and confidential way. COMPLIANCE TRAINING FOR All cases reported though our whistle-blower system are immediately reviewed by our Compliance Committee and actions LOCAL REPRESENTATIVES are initiated. All cases are reported to our Group Compliance In Q4 2019 we invited our French-speaking Officer and Missionpharma’s Board. local representatives for a three-day seminar in Missionpharma Lynge. Emphasis was kept Our whistle-blower procedure is a part of the mandatory trainon strengthening the local anchoring of our ing and contracts for all Missionpharma employees globally compliance policies and processes to ensure in addition to local representatives and key external partners. a consistently high level of compliance in our As we aim at creating a culture of full transparency, we urge global activities. employees and partners to always raise their concerns about irregularities or improper actions. COVID-19 Missionpharma 22 COVID-19 MEASURES The COVID-19 pandemic is affecting the entire world and we are all facing an unpredictable crisis situation. As a global supplier of life-saving drugs, we play an important role in securing health supplies during the crisis. MOBILIZING GROUP EFFORTS HUMAN RIGHTS We are continuously focusing on mitigating the impact Ensuring a consistent supply of safe medicine during the of the COVID-19 pandemic and the associated risks on COVID-19 crisis is a challenging task. While doing so, our operations. This is particularly important in areas we implement as many measures as possible to address where disruption in the supply chain may cause delays the pandemic without discrimination or violation of or even cancellations, which may prevent life-saving human rights. healthcare products from reaching our customers. During the past months, we have seen considerable In every region where we operate, we are working manufacturing, distribution and trade restrictions, and together to ensure the continuity of our operations. The even bans, which is threatening our ability to honour CFAO Group has defined three priorities from the very our commitments for consistent supply of healthcare beginning of the pandemic: products. Missionpharma is taking several precaution1. To preserve the health and safety of our staff ary measure to secure our supply chains by attending throughout the duration of the health crisis a proactive risk evaluation of every single order. We do so by closely monitoring the manufacturing and 2. To make business continuity plans to ensure safe logistics situation on a daily basis and by incorporating arrival of humanitarian supplies coordinated efforts globally to ensure continuation of 3. To support the most exposed communities and operations to the widest possible extent. In addition, health services by playing an active part in sourcwe ensure a consistently high information level towards ing and supplying Personal Protection Equipment our customers about issues which may influence commitWe are continuously focusing from certified suppliers to meet the current and future needs of hospitals and clinics. ments. on mitigating the impact of the When the virus started peaking we quickly framed emerCOVID-19 pandemic and the asgency teams to respond to the increasing request for corona-related products and to ensure optimal coordinasociated risks on our operations. tion of efforts. A high level of information sharing within Missonpharma uses the Ten Princiour organisation is secured by introducing regular global conference meetings and daily status information ples as our guide to our respond to e-mails. the crisis. COVID-19 Missionpharma 23 COVID-19 MEASURES LABOUR ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION While still operating during COVID-19 crisis MissionWithout a doubt, the global travel activity will be Usual procurement patterns may be disrupted during pharma has taken a number of measures to protect our highly reduced in the coming period as an effect of the the crisis due to increased level of emergency procureemployees by ensuring a safe working environment to pandemic. This is also the case in Missionpharma. On a ment and the consequent risk of lack of transparency in limit exposure to the virus in all our locations. positive note, this will reduce the negative impact travels procurement processes. An increasing tendency to skip cause on the environment, but it will also complicate established procurement practices is foreseen in crisis Specifically, we have put in place personal protective the important benefits of meeting with customers and situations. Despite this risk we do our utmost to reduce measures in all locations (masks and hand sanitizers), partners in person. unnecessary bureaucracy in our organisation, while still implemented environmental measures (frequent cleaning ensuring a consistent product quality in our supplies. of surfaces), prepared guidelines for social distancing In order to secure the continued important close diaat the workplace and made appropriate work arrangelogue, coordination with and support to our customers We are actively monitoring donor flows and investments (working from home to the maximum extent possiand partners, Missionpharma is encouraging telecomments as well as local tendencies to ensure that we are ble, introducing work shifts, accelerate holidays etc.) munication and virtual meetings to the widest possible contributing to the maximum possible extent within our extent. Virtual communication is an indispensable tool to area of expertise. We experience unusual price fluctuMissionpharma observes and follows the restrictions diminish the downsides of the physical distances when ations on raw materials and finished products, highly and guidance issued by the relevant local authorities. working from home. We are also assessing if practices reduced price validities and prolonged delivery times on We are continuously raising awareness on precaucan be encouraged long-term to reduce carbon emisparticularly Personal Protection Equipment. This reduces tionary and preventive measures to our employees by sions also after returning to usual working routines. transparency and increases our vulnerability and ability sharing information issued by the WHO and local auto respond to customer requirements. Therefore, we thorities, and to generally maintain a high information Low airfreight capacity provides limited possibilities for evaluate the situation on a daily basis and take precauand instruction level on hygiene practices. air shipments, why we encourage the more environmentionary measures to the widest extent possible. tally effective sea shipment as mode of transportation. Our employees in all locations are effected by the situation, and Missionpharma is committed to ensuring a stable continuation of income and benefits despite flexible working arrangements. We know that our employees do their best to work effectively also from home, and we respect that many of our employees also must care for their children during work hours. We expect the corona situation to drive further digitalisation with our customers, why we are intensifying work on our IT strategy going forward. PERFORMANCE AND TARGETS Missionpharma 24 PERFORMANCE AND TARGETS AREA PERFORMANCE 2018/19 TARGET 2019/20 PERFORMANCE 2019/20 TARGET 2020/21 HUMAN RIGHTS 46 Minimum 50-60 (planned audit schedule was impacted by Minimum 50-60 GMP audits of manufacturers 50-60 (excl. effect of COVID-19 travel restrictions) COVID-19, which led to cancellation of 9 con(excl. effect of COVID-19 travel restrictions) firmed audits Assess manufacturers’ use of child Observed but not a formal requirement Integrated part of every GMP audit. Integrated part of every GMP audit Active review of GMP audit information labour during GMP audits Escalation procedure defined LABOUR Condensed employee survey launched 98% of Danish employees believe that globally. Target is that minimum 90% of Employee satisfaction ”Missionpharma is a 74% globally weighted 85% globally weighted all global employees believe that ”Misgreat place to work” sionpharma is a great place to work” We strive towards a higher degree of We strive towards a higher degree of Gender distribution among man18% female • 82% male gender diversity within our management 24% female • 76% male gender diversity within our management agers teams teams Annual personal development talks 100% (DK location). Global % not yet Minimum 80% (global target) 84% 95% coverage measured ENVIRONMENT Continuous focus on reducing destrucContinuous focus on reducing destrucDestruction of expired tion levels. Target to be decided based tion levels. Target to be decided based 9,900 kg 6,314 kg (36% reduction) pharmaceuticals on changes in corporate stock-keeping on changes in corporate stock-keeping strategies strategies 1,136,000 kWh Electricity consumption 1,072,000 kWh 930,000 kWh (electricity consumption increased due to invest930,000 kWh ment in air conditioners in Kandla warehouse) Solar power 100 kW 200 kW 200 kW 200 kW optimised Initiated packing material recycling Recycling of packing material Measure impact with improvement target A range of recycling projects initiated Measure impact with improvement target efforts ANTI-CORRUPTION 100% of Missionpharma employees Compliance training completed for local Training in new compliance policies Most key local representatives trained All local representatives trained trained representatives and suppliers Tailored case-based training for Category Managers and local Selected local representatives received Country Managers, Category Managers Country Manager training in progress exposed groups representatives case-based compliance training and local representatives Incorporated towards relevant internal Training plan for managers and Segment Incorporated towards relevant internal Digital compliance training tools Currently not used and external stakeholders Heads in process and external stakeholders Due diligence screening of third Systems and procedures incorporated Increased due diligence screening of New third party vetting and screening Increased due diligence screening of parties in SOPs suppliers database introduced at Group level suppliers according to Group policies Missionpharma Group ApS Vassingeroedvej 9 DK-3540 Lynge Denmark Tel.: +45 48 16 32 00 info@missionpharma.com www.missionpharma.com
