Sustainability Report 2019 TMG AUTOMOTIVE Sustainability Report 2019 Table of Contents Message from the CEO 2 Message from the Sustainability Manager 4 Highlights 2019 6 TMG Automotive at a Glance 8 Our Market 10 How Much Do We Sell? 12 Stakeholders Interaction & Communication Channels 13 Materiality 14 Sustainability Policy 17 TMG Automotive & the Sustainable Development Goals 18 Challenge 1: Attractiveness as an Employer 20 Challenge 2: Innovation as a Driver for Sustainable Development 22 Challenge 3: Reduce Environmental Impacts through Sustainable Products 24 Challenge 4: Efﬁcient Use of Resources in Value Creation 26 Challenge 5: Ensuring Corporate Ethics and Legal Compliance 29 Challenge 6: Tackling Global Warming through Climate Protection 30 Challenge 7: Enhance Employee Safety 32 Challenge 8: Boost Sustainable Sourcing 34 Challenge 9: Focusing on Product Safety 36 GRI Table 38 Contacts 44 Sustainability Report 2019 TMG AUTOMOTIVE Message from the CEO Dear Stakeholder, development to supply chain optimization. With undeniable potential social risks, people's To achieve Sustainable Development, a variety qualiﬁcation will be a top priority, anticipating of fronts need to be tackled simultaneously. and minimizing potential social exclusion. Driven by an increasing population, the global challenges are greater than ever and soon will Fully aware of potential problems arising with become an unbearable burden if the world’s Industry 4.0, personnel development and status-quo remains unchanged. With global re-qualiﬁcation needs to be addressed. With a multi-decade challenges as Global Warming, new work-force development plan, TMG companies are expected to do their share to Automotive will begin to implement its Growing ensure the Sustainability of Human Life. Together plan, hoping to incite open and honest dialogue so we can all adapt and evolve together For TMG Automotive, Circular Economy is no in an undoubtedly digitalized, automated and longer an option, but the only way forward. The revolutionized future. new industrial system needs to be reinvented to achieve higher resource efﬁciency, halting As said, a plethora of fronts will need to be resource depletion and improving waste tackled if Sustainable Development is to be management, turning environmental risks into accomplished. As examples, TMG Automotive is business opportunities. Strategic development, currently working on establishing the goals for determination, collective action and conscious its Carbon Neutrality Plan, as well as outlining investment will be crucial if Circular Economy its strategy to better contribute to the is to be achieved. Sustainable Development Goals’ fulﬁlment. Sustainable production and sustainable With a stakeholder-oriented approach, products are critical when conquering new balancing and keeping an alignment amongst markets as different regulations and both primary and secondary stakeholders’ speciﬁcations will be applicable in different interests will continue to be a top priority for countries. With TMG Automotive aiming for TMG Automotive. Championing transparency, non-European market presence consolidation using this Sustainability Report as a disclosing and increased international recognition, channel for all stakeholders, TMG Automotive Innovation is the go-to answer to secure hopes to continuously improve its reporting and proﬁtability when taking into account the Sustainability performance. challenges ahead and global competition. Although proud of where it stands today, TMG Industry 4.0 has a pivotal role as it allows Automotive will never settle and will continue innovative technical solutions to seemingly to work to be increasingly better, hoping to unsolvable problems to be developed. Smart exceed itself time and time again. factories must contribute to diminished waste streams, improve productivity and efﬁciency as well as production ﬂexibility. As information becomes instantaneously available, Isabel Furtado knowledge-sharing becomes easier, with production lines and supply-chains becoming increasingly graspable, leading to innovation opportunities, ranging from enhanced product 2 TMG AUTOMOTIVE Sustainability Report 2019 3 Sustainability Report 2019 TMG AUTOMOTIVE Message from the Sustainability Manager Dear Stakeholder, greenhouse gases emission reduction targets using the Science-Based Targets Initiative In an era of volatility, uncertainty, complexity, guidelines. and ambiguity it is imperative to develop a deeper sense of purpose which can be achieved When it comes to resources, it is imperative to by the Sustainable Development Goals. Social promote the transition towards a Circular and environmental challenges can capitalize the Economy delivering greater value with less business strengths to create shared-value while input. To tackle this challenge and turn it into engaging customers and employees in ways that opportunities a fundamental change, especially improve productivity and growth. regarding recycling and reuse of materials, is needed. Ensuring that our actions are aligned The creation of a new Department dedicated to with this philosophy means rethinking product Sustainability will boost our journey towards a design, raw material selection and manufacturpurpose-driven organization and it is our ing. Product Sustainability beneﬁts need to be utmost ambition to integrate Sustainability into determined, considering all impacts throughout the way we do business, transforming it an their life cycle. Even if there is not yet an agreed intrinsic part of our corporate culture. At the way to do it, ISO 14040 is widely recognized as heart of our strategy lies the commitments with the best methodology for Life Cycle Assessthe Global Compact’s 10 Principles and the ment. United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals. In this report, you will ﬁnd a summary of our aspirational goals and recent progress related to The ﬁrst move will be to reinforce the business our priority materiality issues. case for Sustainability across the organization translating the meaning of Sustainability into Together let’s make this journey full of purpose. each area. Our strategic priorities are focused on where we believe we can have the greatest impact Catarina Dias encompassing people, climate and resources and are outlined in nine Challenges. We recognize there is more we can do regarding Corporate Social Responsibility strengthen our workplace wellbeing and safety, investing in education and awareness and extending the integration of Sustainability practices into the supply chain. Climate Change is happening and urgent action is needed to limit global temperature rise to 1.5 °C above pre-industrial levels. By signing the global movement Business Ambition for 1.5 °C, we are committed to reach carbon neutrality by no later than 2050. This will be done by setting 4 TMG AUTOMOTIVE Sustainability Report 2019 5 Sustainability Report 2019 TMG AUTOMOTIVE Highlights 2019 Science-Based Targets Life Cycle Assessment Initiative – Signing Consolidation as a the Pledge Vital Tool for Product Global Warming is without a doubt the major Development problem the world faces today. TMG AutomoWith greenwashing becoming a ubiquitous tive believes that the Industry sector should be problem in a world craving sustainable products a major player contributing to decarbonization and services, TMG Automotive sees Life Cycle and carbon neutrality. To limit Global Warming Assessment as a vital tool to ensure environto 1.5 °C above pre-industrial days and to mental impacts are taken into consideration prevent an even greater climate catastrophe, when developing new products. In an era of TMG Automotive committed, by signing the misinformation and guerilla journalism where Science-Based Targets Initiative's Ambition for plastics are deemed culprit of much of the 1.5 °C Pledge, to reduce its carbon emissions and world’s environmental problems, transparent achieving carbon neutrality by no later than and credible information is essential to fuel 2050. conscious and well-balanced decisions. Life Cycle Assessment will be used to benchmark potential new products to current ones to New Sustainability & determine if they meet TMG Automotive’s environmental criteria. Intellectual Property Department As Sustainability became more and more Industrial Automation important in TMG Automotive’s overall strategy With Industry 4.0, machine-learning, blockand there was already an active Sustainability chain, Industrial Internet of Things and big data Team, creating a Sustainability Department gaining momentum faster than ever before, seemed only the logical way to go. industrial automation is carving its mark in With Intellectual Property (IP) gaining internal industry processes, including TMG Automomomentum with an increasingly larger patent tive’s. With several projects in machine-learning portfolio, in an era of digitalization where data and machine-vision, TMG Automotive is sharing is present in everyday work and with an increasingly investing in automation, thus increasingly competitive market, protecting improving consistency and productivity in its TMG Automotive’s IP felt crucial. A dedicated production plants and eliminating monotonous IP team is now responsible to handle all TMG and repetitive work previously carried out by Automotive’s IP matters, making sure R&D humans. As an example, TMG Automotive’s results are protected, ensuring competitive new partly-automated warehouse, serving also advantage. as its new loading site, started operations in 2019, decreasing dramatically loading times. While a topic still stirred in controversy due to the potential link to unemployment, TMG Automotive sees it as an invigorating reality and Schwaz, Austria an opportunity to create a new employment paradigm, creating a new and different set of job roles. 6 TMG AUTOMOTIVE Sustainability Report 2019 Lab Accreditation Go Paperless! Previously under R&D Department umbrella, TMG Automotive is diminishing – or eliminatthe Quality Control Laboratory is now an ing whenever possible – its paper use. Although independent Department and has an extensive seemingly irrelevant in a manufacturing catalog of ISO/IEC 17025 accredited test company where tons of raw materials are methods, most of them related to consumed daily, paper use can consume a very ﬁnished-product quality control. The accreditasigniﬁcant amount of resources: the paper tion is a key win to TMG Automotive as certiﬁes itself, archive cases, shelves, cabinets, storage competence on test methods execution which spaces and the resources for their maintenance. in turn certiﬁes that TMG Automotive’s In 2019, several core workﬂows have now been products are checked according to standards. digitalized and paper use is no longer necessary. Moreover, this accreditation cements TMG Going paperless has several advantages, Automotive’s overall management approach including the obvious decreased environmental following the highest standards available, impacts but also the potential increase in thriving to be as best as possible. productivity as sharing information becomes easier. 7 Sustainability Report 2019 TMG AUTOMOTIVE TMG Automotive at a Glance TMG is a family-owned industrial group Portugal, TMG Automotive produces more than specialized in textiles, including knitting, 20 million square meters per year. weaving, dyeing, ﬁnishing, garment manufacturing and distribution. With its headquarters in The product portfolio relies on three main Vila Nova de Famalicão, TMG Group has several materials, distinguished by its main polymeric business units under its wings. matrix: TMG Automotive, a business company part of TMG Group, has its focus on the automotive Polyvinyl Chloride sector, manufacturing ﬂexible polymer foils for Thermoplastic Elastomers automotive interiors. Starting with PVC-coated Polyurethane fabrics in the late 50s, TMG Automotive has more than 60 years of expertise and a large product portfolio. Focusing on high-end These three polymer types, alongside plasticizmarkets and product excellence, TMG Automoers, textiles ranging from recycled polyester to tive serves mainly international markets. With cotton, and ﬂexible foams account for TMG two manufacturing sites located in northern Automotive main supply chain. The main 8 TMG AUTOMOTIVE Sustainability Report 2019 TMG Automotive, Portugal polymeric matrix varies with intended applicaothers, TMG Automotive is one of the leading tion as different polymers present different suppliers in Europe. Already established in the functional properties, with TMG Automotive automotive market for 50 years, TMG Automomaterials being mainly used on instrument tive still follows its founder philosophy: panels, door panels, seats and center consoles. Technology and Quality go By Incorporating the highest standards available hand in hand. to ensure optimization and evolution as part of its business strategy, TMG Automotive has a considerable number of certiﬁcations and accreditations under its belt such as NP 4457, ISO 9001, ISO 45001, ISO 14001, IATF 16949 and ISO/IEC 17025. Supplying some of the major Original Equipment Manufacturers like BMW, Daimler, Ford, Porsche, Renault, Toyota, Volvo and many 9 Sustainability Report 2019 TMG AUTOMOTIVE Our Market Europe 77.2% North America 8.0% South America 0.3% 10 TMG AUTOMOTIVE Sustainability Report 2019 Asia 12.8% Africa 1.7% 11 Sustainability Report 2019 TMG AUTOMOTIVE How Much Do We Sell? Sales in x1.000.000€ 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 129 127 87 103 91 12 TMG AUTOMOTIVE Sustainability Report 2019 Stakeholder Interaction & Communication Channels TMG Automotive considers its relationship with understanding of its performance both social stakeholders one of the basal stones for and environmental, aiming to facilitate discuscontinuous success. There are several groups sion and improvement. that interact with TMG Automotive through different communication channels. Intensify Growing Together, a newly launched specialized and optimize these communication channels is Human Resources digital platform, hopes to one of TMG Automotive’s goals for the future to enhance employee development, easing come, becoming a more proactive and voiceful management-employee communications, company in its sector. allowing its employees to have a more active role through a more transversal and dynamic TMG Automotive commits itself to publish, dialogue. This is only a small part of the annually, a sustainability report so its stakeseveral-year spanned Growing Together plan, holders may be aware of its sustainability still in its early phases, hoping to pep up HR performance. The report will be a privileged management. means for communication and transparency of TMG Automotive’s policies and strategic vision so all of its stakeholders may have a better Shareholders Partners General Meetings, Council MeetFairs and Conferences, Developings, Financial Report, Activity ment and Follow-up Meetings, Reports, Executive Board OperaCooperation Protocols tional Meetings Suppliers Customers Supplier Qualification, PerforCustomer Satisfaction Surveys, mance Evaluations, Visits, Open Audits, Complaints, Open Days, Days Fairs and Conferences, Development and Follow-up Meetings Official Entities Environmental Licensing (RAA), Employees Inspections and Audits Intranet, Performance Evaluation, Periodic Employee Meetings, Satisfaction Surveys Community Fairs and Conferences, Factory Visits, Cooperation Protocols 13 Sustainability Report 2019 TMG AUTOMOTIVE Materiality Materiality can be used as a tool for gathering ers and the CEO were considered. The goal for the information from a selected group of stakeholdfollowing years is to extend the data collection to a ers and aggregate it as key topics – materiality greater and more diverse number of stakeholders, topics – that a company should address. ranging from employees to customers and suppliers Disclosing on how the materiality matrix was as well as local government and surrounding created and the respective outputs denotes communities. transparency and builds a path for discussion both with primary and secondary stakeholders. The stakeholders were selected so that every For this year’s report, only Department ManagDepartment and what represents was accounted for: Finance Purchasing managed by João Fonseca managed by Júlio Mouta Human Resources Quality, Environment, Health and Safety managed by Márcia Rodrigues managed by Cândido Cruz Infrastructure Research, Development and Innovation managed by João Pedro Silva managed by César Águia Laboratory Sales & Marketing managed by Isabel Dias managed by José António Teixeira Logistics Sustainability & Intellectual Property managed by Paula Moreira Pires managed by Catarina Dias Production managed by Filipe Pinho 14 TMG AUTOMOTIVE Sustainability Report 2019 Materiality Matrix Water Depletion Increased Importance Sustainable Climate Protection Products and Air Innovation Occupational Health and Safety Benchmark Analysis Attractiveness as Sustainable an Employer Sourcing Employee Development and Training Waste Raw Materials Management Diversity and Equal Opportunities Product Compliance Safety Communities Others Human Rights Increased Importance Significance for Stakeholders The stakeholders selected were enquired about information regarding the management a variety of topics regarding social, environmenapproach and TMG Automotive’s view on each tal and economic matters and TMG Automotopic is presented. While building each chapter, tive’s materiality topics were the results of feedback from the most relevant departments these face-to-face interviews and thus are to that topic was gathered so the report could considered the key concerns in the company present the most up-to-date information. current situation and the ones addressed in the present report. Not hoping only to Benchmark analysis was determined by increase transparency with analyzing public documents as Sustainability its stakeholders and to Reports and web-sources of the different disclose TMG Automotive’s companies considered. Only companies current sustainability integrated in the automotive supply chain were status, this report was analyzed, namely competitors, suppliers and written with a knowlcustomers. edge-sharing mindset, hoping to educate and Although all topics depicted in the materiality elucidate its readers about matrix are of substantial importance for TMG Automotive, the marked topics were the ones the importance of the selected for reporting. These topics were then matters it delves upon, converted into Challenges and the report was explaining, whenever built on how TMG Automotive is tackling these possible, the themes it Challenges, reporting, whenever possible and portrays and why it conrelevant, related key performance indicators. siders them of importance. Following GRI Standards – Core Option, 15 Sustainability Report 2019 TMG AUTOMOTIVE As previously said, the most relevant materiality ty topic lingo. In other cases, several materiality topics were transcribed into Challenges and topics were condensed in a single Challenge as some Indicators. In some cases, one material topic materiality topics are closely related. Although fairly gave rise to one Challenge and there is a evident, but so that the thread of reasoning is not straightforward connection. In these cases, the lost in these transcriptions, the following diagram Challenge shares most of the original materialiprovides the links made. Challenge 1 in response to the materiality topic Attractiveness as an Employer and Employee Attractiveness as an Employer Development & Training Challenge 2 in response to the materiality topic Innovation Innovation as a Driver for Sustainable Development Challenge 3 in response to the materiality topic Sustainable Products Reduce Environmental Impacts through Sustainable Products Challenge 4 in response to the materiality topic Raw Materials, Waste Management and Water Efﬁcient Use of Resources in Value Creation Depletion Challenge 5 in response to the materiality topic Compliance and Human Rights Ensuring Corporate Ethics and Legal Compliance Challenge 6 in response to the materiality topic Climate & Air Tackling Global Warming through Climate Protection Challenge 7 in response to the materiality topic Occupational Health & Safety Enhance Employee Safety Challenge 8 in response to the materiality topic Sustainable Sourcing Boost Sustainable Sourcing Challenge 9 in response to the materiality topic Product Safety Focusing on Product Safety 16 TMG AUTOMOTIVE Sustainability Report 2019 Sustainability Policy Our Goal To promote and maintain sustainable operaStrive for a culture of excellence, creating tions reducing our environmental footprint innovative content, acting on the social, through the development of high-quality environmental and economic elements as a way products, investing in highly trained and of anticipating and minimizing the risks and specialized personnel, backing our human force uncertainties inherent to the automotive with state-of-the-art equipment and smart market’s complexity. infrastructure. Our Commitments TMG Automotive is committed to continuously Enhancing workplace wellbeing by scout and implement the best practices developing and integrating initiatives available and promoting them throughout the to increase employee’s health, safety supply chain through: and overall satisfaction Producing high-quality sustainable Balancing risks and opportunities products while protecting the linked to the company’s operations environment through energy and thus preventing harm to people, water efficiency, waste reduction and assets and the environment a continuously scouting for better and more sustainable raw-materials Identifying and evaluating stakeholdfollowing the circular economy model ers’ expectations regarding social, using Life Cycle Assessment in the environmental and economic matters, product development process setting goals and acting to achieve them Promoting and engaging in partnerships with the academic and industriComplying with legal and customal community to boost Sustainable er-specific requirements, while also Development and establishing waste subscribing to voluntary relevant upcycling initiatives initiatives to the company’s sustainability roadmap (e.g. Global Compact) Contributing to sustainability awareness, communicating progress to Aligning sustainability indicators with stakeholders in the yearly Sustainabilthe Global Compact’s 10 Principles ity Report. and the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals by establishing targets to help achieve those goals 17 Sustainability Report 2019 TMG AUTOMOTIVE TMG Automotive & the Sustainable Development Goals TMG Automotive Challenges, as the Sustainable Automotive believes the Industry sector plays a Development Goals (SDGs), are fully aligned pivotal role in achieving the Global Goals and, with the Global Compact’s 10 Principles and as a way to understand TMG Automotive’s the outcome is nothing short of a powerful tool impact in the Goals fulﬁlment, aligned its for improvement. To tackle our Challenges and Sustainability Challenges with the SDGs, fulﬁl our goals, TMG Automotive will continue specifying the Goals where it feels it can has the to invest in highly trained and specialized most impact. Furthermore, TMG Automotive employees to develop increasingly better selected Goal number 12, Responsible Producproducts, backing its human force with tion and Consumption, as its primary focus. As state-of-the-art equipment and resilient tracking a company contribute to the Goals infrastructure thus pursuing sustainable using its targets and indicators is seldom a industrialization. straightforward task, TMG Automotive will begin to use Global Compact’s SDG Action Determining a company's impact on the SDGs Manager, a tool developed to transcribe the using its targets and indicators is a complex Global Goals with business in mind, to track task as these indicators are unmistakably evolution and deﬁne an action plan. formulated for governments. Nonetheless, TMG 18 TMG AUTOMOTIVE Sustainability Report 2019 Challenge 1 Attractiveness as an Employer Challenge 2 Innovation as a Driver for Sustainable Development Challenge 3 Reduce Environmental Impacts through Sustainable Products Challenge 4 Efﬁcient Use of Resources in Value Creation Challenge 5 Ensuring Corporate Ethics and Legal Compliance Challenge 6 Tackling Global Warming through Climate Protection Challenge 7 Enhance Employee Safety Challenge 8 Boost Sustainable Sourcing Challenge 9 Focusing on Product Safety 19 Sustainability Report 2019 TMG AUTOMOTIVE Challenge 1 Attractiveness as an Employer With War for Talent being a term in force in the Although future employees value salary, western world, attractiveness as an employer, as beneﬁts and pluses the most, current employTMG Automotive’s materiality matrix points ees often look beyond these. High work morale, out, is its 2019’s key challenge, with talent a healthy and positive work environment, dearth being felt more than ever before. clearly-deﬁned career development plans, and sharing the company’s core values are all factors Attracting, recruiting, developing and retaining contributing to a company’s attractiveness as talent is one of TMG Automotive’s main focus an employer in the long run. With room for areas. improvement and still not where it aims to be, TMG Automotive is working continuously to improve, expecting to meet its employee’s With the new Growing expectations. Together plan and digital TMG Automotive is constantly trying to platform, TMG Automotive upgrade its status as a desirable company and has taken a new and counts on its employees for feedback so it can important step in Talent lower its employee turnover rate and improve Management. overall employee satisfaction. In 2019, TMG Automotive began surveying its employees regarding their overall happiness regarding their While the Growing Together plan spans several work environment, employee-management years, the Growing Together digital platform is relationships, etc., probing for suggestions to planned to start running in early 2020 and it is continuously improve. There is also a suggesexpected to become a novel way to facilitate tion box employees can use if they want to employee-management dialogue and consemake a suggestion while remaining anonymous. quent employee development. TMG Automotive believes that this plan will contribute to more Employee turnover rates can be impacted by accomplished and motivated employees as it contract terminations, retirement, intergroup considers them to be the base ground for a transfers and even death. As TMG Automotive successful and thriving company. has sister companies, intergroup transfers occur more easily and have a considerable impact in As important as retaining talent is attracting employee turnover rates. The turnover increase TMG Automotive, Portugal new talent. Workforce demands of today are in 2018 and 2019 for employees over 50 years different from workforce demands of yesterday of age is related to retirement due to old age and and companies need to evolve with them. Gen Y early retirements, as a result of changes in and especially Gen Z deeply value a company’s Portuguese legislation, removing penalties for core principles regarding sustainable developretirement for those who have long contributoment, hoping that its future employer has ry careers. embedded in its core vision Corporate Social Responsibility practices. As to have a better Talent dearth was felt specially in male employgrasp of what TMG Automotive is all about, ees up to 30 years of age and particularly in from work environment to sustainability-inte2019. Although more pronounced in 2019, grated practices and job roles, TMG Automotive employee turnover rates have increased over integrated in 2019 the concept of job shadowthe years, arising from a more competitive ing so students can understand how a company labour market. works and become acquainted of their potential future company. 20 TMG AUTOMOTIVE Sustainability Report 2019 Employee Turnover Male Employee Turnover Female 20% 20% 18% 18% 16% 16% 14% 14% 12% 12% 10% 10% 8% 8% 6% 6% 4% 4% > 50 years 2% 2% 30 50 years 18 30 years 0% 0% 2016 2017 2018 2019 2016 2017 2018 2019 There are some beneﬁts for TMG Automotive employees were trained in Information Security employees as life insurance and childcare anticipating ISO 27001 implementation. support to all female employees until a deﬁned Training regarding 5S methodology was threshold. According to Portuguese law, all restarted in 2019 and is set to be implemented parents-to-be employees enjoy of parental company-wide in 2020. With TMG Automotive leave, independently of their gender. exporting most of its products and having a mostly international client portfolio, language Critical to employee development is employee skills are mandatory in some of its segments. training. TMG Automotive upgrades its German and English courses usually run employee’s skills through a plethora of year-round for employees, typically consisting instruments and pathways, such as external of two hours a week per language. seminars, fairs and workshops. TMG TMG Automotive is currently outlining an Automotive also ﬁnances study plans for its e-learning plan so training courses could reach a employees if relevant to the company, ranging vaster number of employees more easily. from MBAs to full PhDs. Information Security is set to be the ﬁrst e-learning training course to be made available External training is one of TMG Automotive’s by TMG Automotive, foreseen to reach 100 main investment areas concerning employee employees in its ﬁrst round. development. As examples, close to 100 21 Sustainability Report 2019 TMG AUTOMOTIVE Challenge 2 Innovation as a Driver for Sustainable Development There is no alternative to Sustainable DevelopSustainable Innovation demands a mindset ment and there is no Sustainable Development change for creating new and/or improved without Innovation. Living in a resource-conproducts, processes or methods that produce strained Earth, society and especially companot only economic value but also environmennies must grapple with the question of how one tal and social beneﬁts. As a rule of thumb, can use Innovation in Sustainable Developcompanies who choose to comply with the ment’s favor. most stringent rules, and do so before they are enforced, yield considerable ﬁrst-mover gains in terms of fostering innovation. Innovation is as much a driver for Sustainable In order to continuously improve the InnovaDevelopment as tion pipeline, TMG Automotive was a PortuSustainable Development guese pioneer in the Innovation Management is for Innovation System certiﬁcation through NP 4457:2007. This management system allows to efﬁciently allocate efforts into feasible Innovation, Automotive Industry is well known as one of creating value by introducing innovative the most dynamic and demanding sectors in products in a systematic and organized way, terms of standards and work methodologies, allowing stakeholders to better acknowledge spanning areas such as Quality Management TMG Automotive excellence. In 2019, close to Systems and new products’ Development & 20 employees were trained by an external Approval. These standards and work methodoltraining provider regarding NP 4457:2007. ogies do not restrain themselves to Product These employees will act as Innovation ambasFormulation but instead extends to all departsadors, maintaining a high-success level ments, making Sustainable Innovation a key regarding standard implementation and upkeep. matter for all C-Levels. Male Employee Female Employee Education Breakdown Education Breakdown 30 30 Number Number 25 25 20 20 PhD Degree Master Degree 15 15 Bachelor Degree 10 10 High School 5 5 Basic Education 0 0 2016 2017 2018 2019 2016 2017 2018 2019 22 TMG AUTOMOTIVE Sustainability Report 2019 To achieve a wide knowledge base, the R&D Patent Family Department is composed of multidisciplinary teams working together forming the R&D 14 Number of Patents Cumulative pipeline. 12 10 Being TMG Automotive a company that centers 8 its activity in Innovation and Quality, it is of 6 extreme relevance its involvement with the community where it acts, namely through 4 partnerships with the scientiﬁc community and 2 technological centers. Also of note are student 0 Internship Programs, ranging from summer 2016 2017 2018 2019 internships to full PhDs. These programs have numerous beneﬁts such as attracting to the organization highly motivated pre-professionals As mentioned extensively throughout this with fresh ideas and new perspectives, while report, high-level leadership is pivotal for also providing a community service element by developing and implementing a low-resource allowing students to acquire valuable work economy. While catering to the needs of only a experience in an extremely dynamic work few, the current economic system has placed environment. already an unbearable burden on Earth’s resources. It is obvious that when catering to the needs of the many, traditional approaches Student Internship Programs to business will collapse, and Innovation will be the answer. TMG Automotive intends to be a 18 sustainability front-runner when this reality 16 settles. 14 12 Lake Brienz, Switzerland 10 8 6 4 2 0 2016 2017 2018 2019 PhD Master Thesis University Internship Summer Internship High School Internship Intellectual Property management, a substantial challenge for TMG Automotive, constitutes a source of competitive advantage. Being a crucial part of the corporate strategy to ensure protection of TMG Automotive’s products and technologies in core competence areas, TMG Automotive growth has been accompanied by an increasing patent portfolio. Currently, three patent applications are related with products presenting decreased environmental impacts. 23 Sustainability Report 2019 TMG AUTOMOTIVE Challenge 3 Reduce Environmental Impacts through Sustainable Products With a growing product demand due to a and it is seldom possible to tackle them all at growing market consequent of the ever-increasonce, TMG Automotive will focus on what it ing population craving a higher life quality, thinks are the most signiﬁcant impact categothere is an escalating and imperative need for ries for its products: sustainable products. In a time where the end consumer is craving more than ever before Global Warming due to the current sustainable products, increased greenwashing Climate Crisis and all that entails attempts are an unfortunate but predictable side effect. As misinformation is present Acidification and Eutrophication throughout all society, including both producPotential as the Cotton Industry is a ers and consumers, a standardized environmenmajor user of pesticides and fertilizers tal impact assessment must be employed to in cotton production ensure trustworthy information. Water Depletion as cotton is a very Aware of the plastic water-intensive raw material industry's current public negative image, TMG Land Use as bio raw-materials are gaining popularity and will potentially Automotive is continuously contribute to deforestation and improving its product decreased food security portfolio to provide high-quality products with Human Toxicity for the most straightincreasingly less forward reasons as product safety is environmental impacts. one of TMG Automotive’s priorities Life Cycle Assessment (LCA), being the most Focusing on innovative materials, and working complete and robust tool together with the LCA team to ensure environavailable, was the tool mentally-sound design choices, the R&D team chosen to determine TMG is currently developing several initiatives with Automotive’s products more-sustainable products in mind, such as: environmental impacts. Outsourced waste residues incorporation: integrating waste residues LCA consists in the compilation and characteriranging from cork powder to natural zation of mass and energy inﬂows and outﬂows fibers, enhancing industrial symbiosis throughout the life cycle. These ﬂows will be and contributing to a circular econocharacterized by an environmental burden, be it my either positive or negative and will constitute, in its wholeness, the product environmental NEP-free Lacquers: water-based impacts. TMG Automotive decided to use a lacquers are already NEP-free, while a cradle-to-gate methodology, as car use could be minor number of solvent-based very difﬁcult to account for and material lacquers have still NEP in its composirecovery and disposal at the end-of-life is tion – efforts are being made so this dictated by the End of Life Vehicles Directive. number can be diminished or even As there are too many environmental impacts eliminated 24 TMG AUTOMOTIVE Sustainability Report 2019 Recycled Textiles: products backed Lacquer Continous-Phase Type with recycled textile are already a reality at TMG Automotive – upscale production lies ahead and is set to 73% 66% 60% 62% begin shortly As all of TMG Automotive’s products are lacquered, lacquer production takes a big toll on 40% Solvent-Based 38% resource consumption. TMG Automotive is 27% 34% Lacquer replacing solvent-based lacquers with a Water-Based Lacquer low-carbon alternative – water-based lacquers – 2016 2017 2018 2019 since solvent-based lacquers are one of the main sources of VOC emissions. Although TMG Automotive is determined in decreasing Covered by the Industrial Emissions Directive solvent-based lacquers, client demand dictates (IED), TMG Automotive updates yearly its TMG Automotive’s production. In 2019, TMG Solvent Management Plan, demonstrating Automotive saw a very signiﬁcant increase in compliance with limit values for residual gas demand of one of its older products, still emissions, diffuse emission values and total formulated with solvent-based lacquers, making emissions limit. 2019 the ﬁrst year where the solvent-based – lacquer-based ratio did not decrease. Lake Clark, Alaska 25 Sustainability Report 2019 TMG AUTOMOTIVE Challenge 4 Efﬁcient Use of Resources in Value Creation In today’s world, the increasing population goes Regarding efﬁcient material use and waste hand in hand with increased resource extraction management, TMG Automotive is at this time and consequent resource depletion. In an era primarily focused on reducing waste streams where the Earth Overshoot Day comes sooner indoors. Due to TMG Automotive’s products’ and sooner, there is an obvious need for nature, a signiﬁcate portion of them cannot be Dematerialization, meaning longer-lasting recycled as they are composites and the only materials, designed for repair, reuse or current options are energy recovery and landﬁll high-quality recycling. Resource depletion deposition. As those options are far from prevention and efﬁcient use of resources in environmentally ideal, TMG Automotive is value creation can be achieved by a plurality of continuously scouting for waste upcycling ways such water and energy efﬁciency initiainitiatives and industrial symbiosis opportunitives, circular economy, residue incorporation ties. and waste reduction or, better yet, elimination. As product-as-service, like car-sharing, becomes Energie Use a reality, while contributing to decoupling economic growth from resource use, will TMG Automotive, having an energy intensitive inevitably lead to two different outcomes: product portfolio, is continuously upgrading its facilities and technologies in order to achieve higher and higher energy efﬁciency and A need for more robust materials as consequently reduce its resultant environmenthey will be used more intensively tal impacts. Starting in 2012, with an energy audit, a plan with several energy-saving Design for Disassembly and Design for initiatives was developed. These initiatives, Recycling so worn out parts could be between 2014 and 2017, led to a reduction in easily dismantled, replaced and the energy intensity ratio of 8.4%. recycled Electricity consumption is distributed in three Energy and water efﬁciency, waste management main elements: process equipment, utility units and raw-material selection were already and climatization. The biggest consumers of paramount concerns to TMG Automotive and natural gas are the boilers and the Regenerative there are several teams dedicated to these Thermal Oxidation units used to treat air matters, working continuously to improve emissions from the production plants. The them. boilers are equipped with a heat recovery system that uses the heat from the combustion Although water is of the utmost vital imporgases for the inlet air preheating. tance, TMG Automotive’s products are not water intensitive and both TMG Automotive’s plants are located in northern Portugal, where water is fairly abundant and no risks of water shortages are foreseen. As so, TMG Automotive will continue to monitor its water consumption to keep it as low as it is today. 26 TMG AUTOMOTIVE Sustainability Report 2019 Energy Intensity Ratio both hazardous and non-hazardous types. Being resource-conscious and aware of how important 4.0 circular economy is, TMG Automotive is not MWh / 1000 m2 3.5 where it wants to be regarding its waste streams and will intensify efforts to reduce its waste 3.0 intensity ratios in the forthcoming years. 2.5 2.0 Waste Intensity Ratio 1.5 1.0 300 Kg / 1000 m2 0.5 250 0.0 200 2016 2017 2018 2019 150 100 50 The energy intensity ratio increased in 2018 as 0 TMG Automotive is no longer working 24/7, 2016 2017 2018 2019 which contributes to reduced energy efﬁciency as the turning-on/turning-off of industrial Non hazardous equipment is incredibly energy-intensive. Hazardous Nonetheless, there is an active Energy Consumption Rationalization Plan, developing and implementing energy-saving solutions. TMG Automotive generated residues are selectively collected by type and harmfulness, Waste Reduction stored in eco-points and then forwarded to the respective licensed waste disposal operators. As waste is expected to increase with increased The hazardous waste is mainly constituted of product demand, strong action is needed more adsorbents, ﬁlters, cleaning cloths, contaminatthan ever before, ensuring a waste management ed protective clothing and water-bases liquors. approach in line with the best practices available while also encouraging and pursuing development of better ones. Hazardous Waste Intensity Ratio As TMG Automotive’s waste is mostly 70 composed of highly complex polymeric 60 Kg / 1000 m2 matrices, coupled with textiles and foams, there 50 is often the need for deep know-how in 40 composite recycling and not yet available 30 technologies at industrial scale. To meet its goals, TMG Automotive teams up with several 20 initiatives and institutions so it can diminish its 10 waste disposal impacts. TMG Automotive is 0 now separating its waste streams by polymer 2016 2017 2018 2019 matrix so it can have better control of its waste streams to promote more efﬁcient solutions and Other accelerate future developments. Recycling Now with two manufacturing sites at full steam and with an ever-expanding product portfolio encopassing new formulations, waste streams The non-hazardous waste is the most critical increased and new waste streams were also due to its signiﬁcant intensity ratio. With its created to accommodate new products. As a non-recycled part being mainly composed of consequence, waste intensity ratio increased for composite plastic residues, constituted largely 27 Sustainability Report 2019 TMG AUTOMOTIVE by plasticized PVC, textile and foam, recycling is organization such as cut disposal costs and a considerable challenge due to the general improve a company’s bottom line. difﬁculty to separate the composite in its forming layers. There are several working initiatives in which TMG Automotive is involved. For example, in the scope of the European Automotive Trim Non-hazardous Waste Intensity Ratio Suppliers, TMG Automotive joined VinylPlus in 2013. This project, founded in 2010, estab250 lished a 10-year long sustainable development Kg / 1000 m2 200 commitment plan. The 2010 plan had four key 150 goals for the PVC industry: 100 50 Controlled-loop management Organochlorine emissions 0 Sustainable use of additives 2016 2017 2018 2019 Sustainable Energy & Climate Stability Other Recycling With 2020 being the ﬁnal year of the ﬁrst 10-year plan, VinylPlus started to shape its next 10-year-long plan with its stakeholders through New initiatives and projects are constantly a series of workshops around Europe. TMG being explored to decrease waste streams. As an Automotive was present in one of these example, starting from 2019, a new equipment workshops so its sustainability vision could to clean various industrial apparatus, recurring impact VinylPlus’ strategy for the future. to high temperatures and pressures, instead of cleaning solvents was installed. Together with its partners, TMG Automotive is continuously scouting for waste upcycling Besides contributing to a better overall environinitiatives and technological partners to mental performance, waste reduction programs upgrade its waste disposal methods and create and projects can have several beneﬁts inside an life after waste. 28 TMG AUTOMOTIVE Sustainability Report 2019 Challenge 5 Ensuring Corporate Ethics and Legal Compliance TMG Automotive is a subscriber of the Global Discrimination: Discrimination in hiring, Compact’s 10 Principles that are reﬂected in the remuneration, access to training, promotion, company’s code of conduct. It deﬁnes the termination or retirement based on criteria of ethical values which govern the group in its race, social class, origin, religion, disability, compromise with Portuguese and European gender, sexual orientation, trade union memUnion labor laws compliance, in a way that bership or political afﬁliation is not allowed. promotes health, safety and the best work condition for all its employees. The code of Harassment and abuse: The use of corporal Sobótka, Poland conduct addresses the following themes: punishment, threat of physical, sexual, verbal abuse or other types of harassment are not tolerated. Child Labor: Child labor is not allowed. Working Hours: Working hours must be in Forced Labor: Forced labor is not permitted, accordance with national laws and speciﬁc to whether in the form of forced labor imposed by the industrial activity or with that which offers physical force or in the form of threats, intimigreater protection. dation and/or any other means of coercion. In all cases, employees are not required to work regularly for more than 48 hours per week and Health and Safety: TMG Automotive considare entitled to at least one rest day for each ers the industry’s prevailing knowledge and all 7-day period. associated risks to ensure that the working Overtime will be voluntary, and may not exceed environment is safe, healthy and that adequate 12 hours per week and will not be required on a measures are taken to prevent accidents and regular basis. Overtime will be compensated personal injury that may arise during work, according to the applicable legislation or better. minimizing, as far as possible, danger causes inherent to the work environment, taking into Remuneration: Wages are paid directly to account the country’s prevailing laws. TMG employees in full compliance with all applicable Automotive has appointed a management laws. representative responsible for health and safety aspects of the company. Freedom of association and right to Employees receive regular training on essential collective bargaining: Employees have the issues and this training is given to all new right to join or form trade unions by their own employees and those who change their function choice and to conduct collective bargaining in the workplace. without any form of penalty as a result. Access to sanitary facilities with adequate hygiene conditions are available to all employees. Access to drinking water and, where The points referred in this code of conduct appropriate, adequate food storage is ensured. constitute minimum standards and are underProduction sites are maintained in accordance stood by TMG Automotive as a step forward in with applicable laws and regulations and continuous improvement in working conditions procedures are in place ensuring protection for and protection of its employees. all employees against the risk of ﬁre, accidents and contact with toxic substances. Lighting, ventilation and heating/cooling systems must be adequate. 29 Sustainability Report 2019 TMG AUTOMOTIVE Challenge 6 Tackling Global Warming through Climate Protection It is obvious today – and for a long time now – By signing the pledge, TMG Automotive that the events related to climate change are commits to deﬁne GHG emission reduction even worse than previously anticipated, both in targets and reach net-zero emissions by no later intensity and frequency. It should also be than 2050 with the criteria and recommendaobvious by now that every little help counts tions of the Science-Based Targets Initiative. and not acting is no longer an option. For that to happen, TMG Automotive aims to identify and carry out developments in a Climate Change is a multidecade global plethora of fronts including, but not limited to, challenge: from rising sea levels and shifting energy efﬁciency, renewables and carbon weather patterns, the impacts regarding climate offsetting. change are global in scope and unprecedented in scale. Under current carbon emissions, global Although steadfastly committed, TMG Automowarming is expected to surpass the 3 °C mark, tive is still at the beginning of its Decarbonizawell above what the Paris Agreement hopes to tion journey, planning to start carbon emissions achieve and with appalling consequences in quantiﬁcation in early 2020. All three Scopes their breadth. Limiting global warming to 1.5 °C will be quantiﬁed following the GHG Protocol will depend on greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and Science-Based Targets Initiative guidance. over the next few decades and there is a lot TMG Automotive hopes to submit its carbon industry can do to mitigate its current impact. reduction targets no later than 2021, being fully disclosed and explained in the 2021 SustainaThe world is already paying for the current bility Report. Scope 1 emissions, still not yet Carbon Economy, socially, environmentally and entirely determined, will be presented in the economically speaking. If the social and 2020 Sustainability Report. environmental impacts are straightforward, the resulting economic impacts are a given as Now with two manufacturing sites, production Climate Change phenomena like droughts, lines were optimized regarding logistics and ﬂoods, smog, wildﬁres, etc. are taking cared of human-resources, decreasing 24/7 production with public money. If the carbon economy and increasing total batch hours. As batch impacts were all accounted for, the public production consumes more energy due to the would get a considerably different picture of switching-on/switching-off of production what Climate Change is already causing and is machines, a higher intensity ratio was veriﬁed set to cause, ranging from climate refugees and when compared with 2016-2017 numbers. food security to water conﬂicts. As for now, TMG Automotive is entirely dependent on electricity suppliers for its Perfectly aware of the electricity needs and its Scope 2 emissions are current Climate Crisis and dependent on its supplier’s electricity mix. The its undoubtful urgency, electricity mix is depicted in the image below, TMG Automotive joined with renewable sources accounting for 53.8% of the total electricity consumed. the global movement Business Ambition for 1.5°C, contributing to the Paris Agreement's main goal: to limit global temperature rise to 1.5 °C above pre-industrial levels. 30 TMG AUTOMOTIVE Sustainability Report 2019 Renewable Cogeneration Urban Solid Waste 4% 1% Other Renewables 7% Hydro 20% Fossil Cogeneration 8% Wind 23% Natural Gas 19% Coal 18% One of the drawbacks of renewables is their Scope 2 Emission Intensity Ratio unpredictability and intermittency, particularly in the form of weather events such as droughts 0.6 tCO2 / 1000 m2 or sunshine hours per year. Portugal was struck 0.5 by the 2017-2018 Iberian draught, affecting its 0.4 2017-2018 hydroelectricity, one of its renewa0.3 bles’ main sources. 0.2 0.1 Renewable Energy 0.0 60% 2016 2017 2018 2019 50% 40% With multiples initiatives 30% regarding energy efficien20% cy and carbon footprint, 10% TMG Automotive’s first 0% solar farm is its greatest. 2016 2017 2018 2019 Originally planned to begin construction in 2019, but delayed to 2020-2021 to meet sound This unpredictability made its dent in TMG environmental criteria, given similar production Automotive’s product carbon footprint, spiking output, will account for 8% of TMG Automoin 2017 and reaching its lowest value in 2019. tive’s electricity requirements, therefore decreasing by a noteworthy amount its Scope 2 emissions. 31 Sustainability Report 2019 TMG AUTOMOTIVE Challenge 7 Enhance Employee Safety Employee injuries and/or deaths can cause a Employee Training & Continued major emotional toll in the workforce and their Education loved ones and can linger for several years after Machinery Maintenance the incident with daunting consequences. As Appropriate Personal Protection so, workplace safety is of paramount imporEquipment Usage tance for TMG Automotive. As said previously, First Aid and Emergency Action Plans TMG Automotive believes that healthy and committed employees hold the keys for a successful and thriving company. Knowing that Training, one of the top measures to improve their employer does the best it can for employemployee safety, is one of TMG Automotive's ee security is an example of how one can main investment areas to enhance workplace upsurge employee commitment. safety and wellbeing. In 2019, several training programs were taught at TMG Automotive Being a manufacturing company, work risks can ranging from Fireﬁghting Techniques and Fire take several forms, from hazardous chemical Safety to Safety in Platform Operations. Overall, exposures to slips, trips & falls. Employee Safety in 2019, close to 450 safety-related training must be proactive and not reactive with actions programs were ministered to TMG Automotive to enhance workplace safety as: employees. 32 TMG AUTOMOTIVE Sustainability Report 2019 TMG Automotive, Portugal Several health and safety tools are employed in Automotive ensures that all employees are TMG Automotive’s facilities to continuously properly trained regarding health and safety improve performance in this area, such as: issues, new employees tend to increase the fortuitous accidents numbers, increasing Injury Rate. Risk Assessment Occupational Healthcare Health Promotion Campaigns Þjóðvegur, Iceland 30 800 Injury Rate Lost Day Rate 25 700 600 TMG Automotive believes that by implementing 20 500 and assuring a strong health and safety 15 400 program, other companies, both clients and 300 10 suppliers, by peer pressure, will improve their 200 health and safety agenda as well. 5 100 Although there were no fatal accidents or 0 0 accidents with temporary total disability (TTD) 2016 2017 2018 2019 periods exceeding 180 days, accidents with signiﬁcant TTD periods occurred in 2019, Injury Rate increasing Lost Day Rate. Lost Day Rate In 2019, production numbers saw an increase of more than 40% when compared with 2016’s Although TMG Automotive believes in a numbers. Accompanying such a large leap in preventive approach, every accident was used as production numbers came also an increase in a learning lesson and adequate measures were total employee numbers. Although TMG taken. 33 Sustainability Report 2019 TMG AUTOMOTIVE Challenge 8 Boost Sustainable Sourcing When considering a product’s environmental and A Purchasing Policy, transversal to all TMG social impacts, the raw-materials chosen are the Groups contains, inter alia, the following topics: origin of a large share of these impacts, often the Ethical Principles, Conﬂict of Interests and greatest, thus holding great potential in decreasSupplier Evaluation. ing the environmental and social burdens associated with a given product. TMG Ethical Principles Automotive recognizes its responsibility does not In contact with suppliers, each element of the begin only when the raw-materials enter its gates, Purchasing Department is representing all TMG but instead begins with raw-material and supplier Group and should act accordingly, using selection and, as so, has been integrating standards of conduct and ethical principles that sustainability practices in its supply chain. assure a long-term professional relationship based on the search for better and more As TMG Automotive is fully committed with the affordable solutions, based on the grounds that highest standards in its procurement practices, it TMG Automotive is a responsible and fair demands identical commitment from its company. supply-chain. Suppliers are requested to approve TMG Automotive’s Supplier Code of Conduct and Conflict of Interests abide by its terms. Aligned with UN Global Any form of acquisition that can beneﬁt Compact’s 10 principles, the Supplier Code of directly any collaborator is forbidden, unless Conduct has strict compulsory requirements that the purchasing process is completely related to Human Rights, Anti-Corruption, transparent and obtains full approval from three Corporate Ethics, Environment and Health & elements of the Purchasing Group – being the Safety. Purchasing Department Director necessarily one of the intervenients. National Supplier Preference A methodological selection of raw material Supplier Evaluation suppliers is also of crucial importance due to Supplier evaluation and selection are done several factors, including used production differently according to the service/product technologies and raw-material delivery. Transportype offered. tation can be of high signiﬁcance when carbon footprint is concerned, considering where the raw There are two critical moments: material is coming from and how – and how Initial Supplier Evaluation (Qualification) – often – the raw material is delivered. Whenever determines the inclusion – or exclusion – from possible, TMG Automotive opts for national TMG Automotive’s supplier list. It is based on a suppliers for a reduced transportation carbon questionnaire sent to the potential supplier footprint, while seeking to boost and develop the that covers quality, social and environmental Portuguese economy. issues. According to the questionnaire answers, the supplier is then placed in one of the Conscious of the food industry huge environfollowing groups: approved, provisional/under mental impacts and related also with national surveillance or disapproved. supplier preference, TMG Automotive is incorporating the farm-to-fork movement in its canteens, Continuous Supplier Assessment – evaluation Seljalandsfoss, Iceland cutting any fruits and vegetables not locally is done to the approved supplier over time. sourced from its menus, supporting local farmers Evaluates suppliers’ performance and their while cutting transportations carbon costs. maintenance in the supplier list. An analysis of 34 TMG AUTOMOTIVE Sustainability Report 2019 the supplier’s quality, deadlines and supplied quantities, organizational level, quality management, environment, social, documentations and competitiveness. This evaluation is done by three different departments: Research & Development, Logistics and Purchasing, being the last responsible for all the evaluation process and with four criteria in mind: Day to day performance: logistic performance regarding deadline and quality deviations Technical information: raw material composition and approval standards compliance Management System: quality and environmental certifications Organizational Performance: claims, competitiveness, delivery quality and technical support Along with what has been described, TMG Automotive performs audits where environmental and social topics are taken into account to evaluate suppliers. 35 Sustainability Report 2019 TMG AUTOMOTIVE Challenge 9 Focusing on Product Safety Not present in 2018’s report, Product Safety is In 2019, there were zero one of 2019’s materiality topics. Last year, it did fines, penalties or any sort not make the ﬁnal cut because so many of warning regarding measures were already in place, both site-specompliance with product ciﬁc as industry-wide as the automotive safety and no voluntary industry has very strict rules regarding product safety. Although these measures were not codes were transgressed. halted or shortened by any means, TMG TMG Automotive is proud Automotive thinks that Product Safety is a of its products and expects too-important topic not to be included and to maintain its incidents discussed in further detail. to zero for the years to come. Granting that next to none companies would deliberately put an unsafe product in the market, the responsibility of safeguarding the safety of its products lies in the manufacturing company. TMG Automotive has tests in place to ensure its product portfolio meets all predeﬁned safety requirements. Life Cycle Assessments conducted at TMG Automotive, as already mentioned in Challenge 3, measures Human Toxicity in raw-material extraction, transportation and product manufacturing. System boundaries could be altered to include product use. Although an objective for TMG Automotive for the long run, due to the intricate complexity of determining the environmental impacts of car use and attributing them to each separate component, this is not yet being done. Dolomites, Italy 36 TMG AUTOMOTIVE Sustainability Report 2019 37 Sustainability Report 2019 TMG AUTOMOTIVE GRI Table Disclose Number Disclose Title Disclose Description Information Page 102-1 Name of the a. Name of the organization TMG Automotive Tecidos organization Plastiﬁcados e Outros Revestimentos para a Indústria Automóvel, S.A. 102-2 Activities, a. A description of the organization's activities 9, 10 brands, products, b. Primary brands, products, and services, and services including an explanation of any products or services that are banned in certain markets 102-3 Location of a. Location of the organization’s headquarters Rua Comendador Manuel Gonçalves, headquarters nº 25, São Cosme Do Vale, 4770-590 Vila Nova de Famalicão, Portugal 102-4 Location of a. Number of countries where the organizations The production facilities are all operations operate, and the names of countries where it located in northern Portugal. has signiﬁcant operations and/or that are relevant to the topics covered in the report 102-5 Ownership and a. Nature of ownership and legal form 9, 10 legal form 102-6 Markets served a. Markets served, including: 9-12 i. Geographic locations where products and services are offered; ii. Sectors served; iii. Types of costumers and beneﬁciaries 102-7 Scale of the a. Scale of the organization, including: As of 31.12.2019: 778 employees. 9-12 organization i. Total number of employees; ii. Total number of operations; iii. Net sales (for private sector organizations) or net revenues (for public sector organizations); iv. Total capitalization (for private sector organizations) broken down in terms of debt and equity; v. quantity of products or services provided. 102-8 Information on a. Total number of employees by employment As of 31.12.2019: 778 employees, 17% employees and contract (permanent and temporary), by gender. female, and 24% temporary. All other workers b. Total number of employees by employment employees reside in northern Portugal. contract (permanent and temporary), by region. Data is gathered and constantly c. Total number of employees by employment updated by TMG Automotive’s HR type (full-time and part-time), by gender. Department. d. Whether a signiﬁcant portion of the organization's activities are performed by workers who are not employees. If applicable, a description of the nature and scale of work performed by workers who are not employees. e. Any signiﬁcant variations in the number reported in 102-8-a, 102-8-b and 102-8-c; f. An explanation of how data have been compiled, including any assumptions made. 102-9 Supply chain a. A description of the organization's supply 9, 10 chain, including its main elements as they relate to the organization's activities, primary brands, products and services. 38 TMG AUTOMOTIVE Sustainability Report 2019 Disclose Number Disclose Title Disclose Description Information Page 102-10 Significant a. Signiﬁcant changes to the organization's size, 9, 10 changes to the structure, ownership, or supply chain, including: organization and i. Changes in the location of, or charges in, its supply chain operation, including facility openings, closing, and expansions; ii. Changes in the share capital structure and other capital formation, maintenance, and alteration operations (for private sector organizations); iii. Changes in the location of suppliers, the structure of the supply chain, or relationship with suppliers, including selection and termination. 102-11 Precautionary a. Whether and how the organization applies the TMG Automotive, as for now, does not Principle of Precautionary Principle or approach. apply the Precautionary Principle approach 102-12 External a. A list of externally-developed economic, United Nations Global Compact and 10 Initiatives environmental and social charters, principles, the 2030 Agenda, especially the 17 and or other initiatives to which the organizaSustainable Development Goals. tion subscribes, or which it endorses. 102-14 Statement from a. A statement from the most senior 2 senior decision-maker of the organization about the decision-maker relevance of sustainability to the organization and its strategy for addressing sustainability. 102-16 Values, a. A description of the organization’s values, 9, 10, principles, principles, standards, and norms of behavior. 29 standards, and norms of behavior 102-18 Governance a. Governance structure of the organization, Meeting Table Of Shareholders: D. structure including committees of the highest governance Maria Helena Ferreira da Costa body. Gonçalves Folhadela de Oliveira b. Committees responsible for decision-making President, Dr. Horácio da Costa on economic, environmental, and social topics. Azevedo Secretary. Administration Council: Dr. António Manuel Ferreira da Costa Gonçalves President, Dr. Isabel Maria Gonçalves Folhadela de Oliveira Mendes Furtado Vice-President, DR. Manuel António Carvalho Gonçalves Vowel, Price Waterhouse Coopers & Associados, SROC, Lda. Represented by Sr. Dr. António Joaquim Brochado Correia or by Dr. José Pereira Alves, Dr. Hermínio António Paulos Afonso substitute. The management teams consists of the CEO, Marketing and Business Manager, R&D Manager, Quality, Environment, Safety and Health Manager, Maintenance Manager, Production Manager, Financial Manager, Procurement Manager, Logistics Manager and IT Manager, Sustainability and Intellectual Property Manager, Laboratory Manager. 102-40 List of a. A list of stakeholders groups engaged by the 13 stakeholders organization. groups 102-42 Identifying and a. The basis for identifying and selecting Inﬂuence and frequency of selecting stakeholders with whom to engage. engagement. stakeholders 102-43 Approach to a. The organization's approach to stakeholders, 13 stakeholder including frequency of engagement by type and engagement stakeholder group, and an indication of whether any of the engagement was undertaken speciﬁcally as part of the report preparation process. 39 Sustainability Report 2019 TMG AUTOMOTIVE Disclose Number Disclose Title Disclose Description Information Page 102-44 Key topics and a. Key topics and concerns that have been raised 14 concerns raised through stakeholder engagement, including: i. How the organization has responded to those topics and concerns, including through its reporting; ii. The stakeholders groups that raised each of the key topics and concerns. 102-45 Entities included a. A list of all entities included in the organizaTMG Automotive Tecidos Plastiﬁcain the tion's consolidated ﬁnancial statements or dos e Outros Revestimentos para a consolidated equivalent documents. Indústria Automóvel, S.A.; TMG financial b. Whether any entity included in the Tecidos para Vestuário e Decoração, statements organization's consolidated ﬁnancial statements S.A.; Lightning Bolt Europe, S.A.; TMG or equivalent documents is not covered by the Acabamentos Têxteis, S.A.; SPE report. Sociedade de Produção de Electricidade e Calor, S.A.; GPSA Têxteis, S.A.; ARCO JMRG, Lda. 102-46 Defining report a. An explanation of the process for deﬁning the 14 content and report content and the topic boundaries. topic b. An explanation of how the organization has Boundariesstate implemented the Reporting Principles for ments deﬁning report content. 102-47 List of material a. A list of the material topics identiﬁed in the 14 topics process for deﬁning report content. 102-48 Restatements of a. The effect of any restatements of information None information given in previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements. 102-49 Changes in a. Signiﬁcant changes from previous reporting None reporting periods in the list of material topics and topic boundaries. 102-50 Reporting period a. Reporting period for the information 2019 provided. 102-51 Date of most a. If applicable, the date of the most recent 01.02.2019 recent report previous report. 102-52 Reporting cycle a. Reporting cycle. Annual 102-53 Contact point for a. The contact point for questions regarding the 42 questions report or its contents. regarding the report 102-54 Claims of a. The claim made by the organization, if it has This report has been prepared in reporting in prepared a report in accordance with the GRI accordance with the GRI Standards: accordance with Standards, either: Core option. the GRI i. 'This report has been prepared in accordance Standards with the GRI Standards: Core option'; ii. 'This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Comprehensive option'. 102-55 GRI content a. The GRI content index, which speciﬁes each 36 index of the GRI Standards used and lists all disclosures included in the report; b. For each disclosure, the content index shall include: i. The number of the disclosure (for disclosure covered by the GRI Standards); ii. The page number(s) or URL(s) where the information can be found, either, within the report or in the other published materials; iii. If applicable, and where permitted, the reason(s) for omission when a required disclosure cannot be made. 40 TMG AUTOMOTIVE Sustainability Report 2019 Disclose Number Disclose Title Disclose Description Information Page 102-56 External a. A description of the organization's policy and Originally planned for 2019, due to assurance current practice with regard to seeking external organizational restructuring, it was assurance for the report. postponed to 2020. b. If the report has been externally assured: a. A reference to the external assurance report, statements, or opinions. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, a description of what has and what has not been assured and on what basis, including the assurance standards used, the level of assurance obtained, and any limitations of the assurance process; ii. The relationship between the organization and the assurance provider; iii. Whether and how the highest governance body or senior executives are involved in seeking external assurance for the organization's sustainability report. 302-3 Energy a. Energy intensity ratio for the organization; Only fuel and electricity were b. Organization-speciﬁc metric (the denominaconsidered as TMG Automotive does tor) chosen to calculate the ratio; not use heating, cooling or steam. c. Types of energy included in the intensity The denominator used was 1000 m2. ratio; whether fuel, electricity, heating, cooling, steam, or all; d. Whether the ratio uses energy consumption within the organization, outside of it, or both. 302-4 Energy a. Amount of reductions in energy consumption Not present in this report. For more achieved as a direct result of conservation and information, please consult Relatório efﬁciency initiatives, in joules or multiples; Auditoria Energética. b. Types of energy included in the reductions; whether fuel, electricity, heating, cooling, steam, or all; c. Basis for calculating reductions in energy consumption, such as base year or baseline, including the rationale for choosing it; d. Standards, methodologies, assumptions, and/or calculation tools used; 305-4 Emissions a. GHG emissions intensity ratio for the Only Scope 2 emissions were organization; considered. Scope 2 emissions were b. Organization-speciﬁc metric (the denominacalculated with the energy mix tor) chosen to calculate the ratio; provided by the electricity provider. c. Types of GHG emissions included in the Calculation factors also provided by intensity ratio; whether direct (Scope 1), energy the electricity provider. indirect (Scope 2), and/or other indirect (Scope 3); d. Gases included in the calculation; whether CO2, CH4, N20, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, or all. 306-2 Effluents and a. Total weight of hazardous waste, with a Waste disposal methods were provided 26-28 Waste breakdown by the following disposal method by the waste disposal contractors. where applicable: i. Reuse; ii. Recycling; iii. Composting; iv. Recovery, including energy recovery; v. Incineration (mass burn); vi. Deep well injection; vii. Landﬁll; viii. On-site storage; ix. Other (to be speciﬁed by the organization); b. Total weight of non-hazardous waste, with a breakdown by the following disposal method where applicable: i. reuse; ii. Recycling; iii. Composting; iv. Recovery, including energy recovery; v. Incineration (mass burn); vi. Deep well injection; vii. Landﬁll; viii. On-site storage; ix. Other (to be speciﬁed by the organization); c. How the waste disposal method has been determined: i. Disposed directly by the organization, or otherwise directly conﬁrmed; ii. Information provided by the waste disposal contractor; iii. Organizational defaults of the waste disposal contractor; 41 Sustainability Report 2019 TMG AUTOMOTIVE Disclose Number Disclose Title Disclose Description Information Page 307-1 Environmental a. Signiﬁcant ﬁnes and non-monetary sanctions There were no signiﬁcant or Compliance for non-compliance with environmental laws insigniﬁcant ﬁnes and/or regulations in terms of: i. Total monetary value of signiﬁcant ﬁnes; ii. Total number of non-monetary sanctions; iii. Cases brought through dispute resolution mechanisms; b. if the organization has not identiﬁed any non-compliance with environmental laws and/or regulations, a brief statement of this fact is sufﬁcient. 308-1 Supplier a. Percentage of new suppliers that were All potential suppliers are screened Environmental screened using environmental criteria using environmental criteria prior to Assessment becoming actual suppliers. 403 Occupational a. Types of injury, injury rate (IR), occupational 32, Health and disease rate (ODR), lost day rate (LDR), absentee 33 Safety rate (AR), and work-related fatalities, for all employees, with a breakdown by: i. Region; ii. Gender; b. Types of injury, injury rate (IR), and work-related fatalities, for all workers (excluding employees) whose work, or workplace, is controlled by the organization, with a breakdown by: i. Region; ii. Gender; c. The system of rules applied in recording and reporting accident statistics. 401-1 New employee a. Total number and rate of new employee hires 20, hires and during the reporting period, by age group, 21 employee gender and region. turnover b. Total number and rate of employee turnover during the reporting period, by age group, gender and region. 401-2 Benefits to a. Beneﬁts which are standard for full-time 20, full-time employees of the organizations but are not 21 employees that provided to temporary or part-time employees, are not provided by signiﬁcant locations of operations. These to temporary or include, as minimum: part-time i. Life insurance; employees ii. Health care; iii. Disability and invalidity coverage; iv. Parental leave; v. Retirement provision; vi. Stock ownership; vii. Others. b. The deﬁnition used for “signiﬁcant locations of operations”. 401-3 Parental Leave a. Total number of employees that were entitled All Portuguese parents are entitled by to parental leave, by gender. law to parental leave and are required b. Total number of employees that took parental to take it. All employees that took leave, by gender. parental leave in the last 4 years c. Total number of employees that returned to returned to work and all were still work in the reporting period after parental leave employed 12 months after. ended, by gender. Disclaimer: There are employees who d. Total number of employees that returned to took parental leave in 2019 that are work after parental leave ended that were still still in parental leave when the report employed 12 months after their return to work, was written. by gender. e. Return to work and retention rates of employees that took parental leave, by gender. 404-2 Programs for a. Type and scope of programs implemented and 20, upgrading assistance provided to upgrade employee skills. 21 employee skills b. Transition assistance program provided to and transition facilitate continued employability and the assistance management of career endings resulting from programs retirement or termination of employment. 42 TMG AUTOMOTIVE Sustainability Report 2019 Disclose Number Disclose Title Disclose Description Information Page 414-1 Supplier Social a. Percentage of new suppliers that were All potential suppliers are screened Assessment screened using social criteria. using social criteria prior to becoming actual suppliers. 416-2 Customer Health a. Total number of incidents of non-compliance TMG Automotive did not identiﬁed and Safety with regulations and/or voluntary codes any non-compliance with regulations concerning the health and safety impacts of and/or voluntary codes. products and services within the reporting period, by: i. Incidents of non-compliance with regulations resulting in a ﬁne or penalty; ii. Incidents of non-compliance with regulations resulting in a warning; iii. Incidents of non-compliance with voluntary codes. b. If the organization has not identiﬁed any non-compliance with regulations and/or voluntary codes, a brief statement of this fact is sufﬁcient. 43 Sustainability Report 2019 TMG AUTOMOTIVE Contacts Catarina Dias André Pereira catarina.dias@tmgautomotive.pt andre.pereira@tmgautomotive.pt Cautionary Statement The present sustainability report took a lot of time and effort to write, especially because it was a restructuring year for TMG Automotive and the Sustainability Department only came into full force in 2019’s second semester. Although accuracy was one of the main purposes when gathering all the data necessary, errors cannot be fully excluded and could be present in various forms throughout the report. This report was built to enhance transparency with TMG Automotive’s stakeholders and to disseminate what TMG Automotive believes are good practices; it is therefore not meant to be used as base for any third party decisions and TMG Automotive does not assume responsibility regarding these decisions. 44
