20th January 2020 H.E. António Guterres Secretary-General United Nations New York, NY 10017 USA Dear Mr. Secretary-General, I am pleased to confirm that Anderson HR Consulting & Training-AHRC FZ-LLC supports the ten principles of the Global Compact on human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. With this communication, we express our intent to implement those principles. We are committed to making the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company, and to engaging in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations, particularly the Sustainable Development Goals. Anderson HR Consulting & Training-AHRC FZ-LLC will make a clear statement of this commitment to our stakeholders and the general public. We recognize that a key requirement for participation in the Global Compact is the annual submission of a Communication on Progress (COP) that describes our company’s efforts to implement the ten principles. We support public accountability and transparency, and therefore commit to report on progress within one year of joining the Global Compact, and annually thereafter according to the Global Compact COP policy. This includes: • A statement signed by the chief executive expressing continued support for the Global Compact and renewing our ongoing commitment to the initiative and its principles. This is separate from our initial letter of commitment to join the Global Compact. • A description of practical actions (i.e., disclosure of any relevant policies, procedures, activities) that the company has taken (or plans to undertake) to implement the Global Compact principles in each of the four issue areas (human rights, labour, environment, anticorruption). • A measurement of outcomes (i.e., the degree to which targets/performance indicators were met, or other qualitative or quantitative measurements of results). Sincerely yours, Anne Hamilton General Manager Published on : 20th January 2020 Time Period : December 2019 to December 2020 Differentiation Level : GC Active Format : Stand Alone Document Self-Assessment  Includes a clear statement for continued support for the UN Global Compact and its ten principles  Report of relevant policies and actions related to Human Rights  Report of relevant policies and actions related to Labour  Report of relevant policies and actions related to Environment  Report of relevant policies and actions related to Anti-Corruption  Includes a measurement of outcomes Page 1 Executive Summary Anderson has proven international experience in creating learning programmes for private, public and government organisations. With over 10 years’ experience, we work with our clients to co-create courses which bring out the best in their people and support business transformations. We are recognised leaders in HR, Organisational and People Development solutions. Our top-quality instructors deliver content covering the latest thinking and approaches in their respective fields of expertise. With over 500 consultants and trainers we select the best to meet your needs. They have unrivalled knowledge and expertise used to develop your people to their highest potential. Anderson is a company dedicated to enhancing the organisational effectiveness of our clients through human resource processes which are based on our Pillars of Performance, or the ‘Anderson Way’: ❖ To deliver Performance Solutions that engage people within an organisation to strive for increased productivity ❖ To provide solutions that integrate established HR processes and broadens potential ❖ To ensure outstanding quality assurance and customer service Our Mission Anderson’s mission is to promote and support employee and organisational growth, development and empowerment through the provision of innovative, high quality workplace learning courses, resources and services. What We Do We offer a full range of training programmes in 20 international locations, to provide our clients with skills and tools to meet the challenging demands of today’s fast-paced business environment. Anderson provides the people development needs for leading organisations to enable transformational growth and sustainability. We are experts in providing knowledge transfer solutions, and support organisations with innovative human capital strategies. Utilising leading academic and industry experts we design, develop and deliver development programmes, both public and in-house, incorporating the latest cutting-edge ideas, techniques and technology. In addition, we provide a unique and varied range of HR Consultancy and talent management services to ensure your organisational development strategies are achieved. We transform your HR and Development problems into successful, workable solutions. Page 2 Human Rights • Principle 1 : Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and • Principle 2 : make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Assessment, Policy and Goals Anderson’s long time goal is to inspire its employees, business partners and clients to follow the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and environmental protection. Based on our commitment, we have developed several policies, namely: Code of Conduct, Equal Opportunity and the AntiHarassment and Anti-Bullying policies. These policies are displayed on our notice board which serves as a reminder for our employees and as a notice to our suppliers, partners and clients. Implementation Anderson has implemented the following measures to ensure that Human Rights are in no way being abused and violated: ➢ Human Resource Department’s email has been active in dealing with employees’ complaints and/or issues with regards to unfair treatment ➢ Evaluation forms are provided to our clients who are attending our courses. With this, we can assure that the participants are treated fairly and equally ➢ Annual seminar with the topic of Human Rights for the entire company ➢ Strict implementation of the Anti-Harassment and Anti-Bullying policies ➢ A weekly staff meeting has been set to discuss all company related issues Measurement of Outcomes From the inception of the company until today, there has been no report of any Human Rights violations. A weekly meeting has been implemented; one of the agendas is to resolve any issues and complaints received from employees and clients. All of the complaints/issues received in the HRD email were reviewed by the management and were investigated and resolved immediately and amicably. Anderson will assess any issue with the existing policies and guidelines. If a violation of Human Rights has been found, it will be documented and the responsible party will be notified and will be given ample time to address and resolve the issue. Continued non-compliance of the concerned party will result in a disciplinary action or as per the U.A.E. law, depending on the weight of the violation. Page 3 Labour Principles • Principle 3 : Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; • Principle 4 : the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; • Principle 5 : the effective abolition of child labour; and • Principle 6 : the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessment, Policy and Goals Anderson practices the rules and regulations set by the U.A.E. Labour Law. Our company policies cover employee rights, compensation and responsibilities. Labor related risks are also assessed. We will continue to develop our policy as appropriately needed or as advised by the U.A.E. Labour Law. Implementation Anderson has implemented the following measures to ensure that the respective Labour Principles are adhered to: ➢ Human Resource Department’s email has been active in dealing with employees’ complaints and/or issues with regards to any violation of the U.A.E. Labour Law ➢ All Anderson employees are provided with basic medical insurance ➢ Employees are entitled to an annual return flight ticket to their respective home countries ➢ Anderson practices equal compensation irrespective of gender, color, ethnic or national origin, age, marital status, disability, family circumstances, socio-economic background, and so forth ➢ A weekly staff meeting has been set to discuss all company related issues Measurement of Outcomes Anderson has always supported diversity and has hired and is currently hiring its staff irrespective of gender, ethnicity, age, and so forth. As of today, Anderson has a ratio of 1:1 for male and female employees. Since the foundation of the company, Anderson has provided all employees with basic medical insurance. All employee related injuries and illnesses has been treated. All the complaints/issues received in the HRD email were reviewed by the management and were investigated and resolved immediately and amicably. The weekly meeting that was implemented has proven to be a success; all issues and complaints received from employees and clients have been resolved. Page 4 Environmental Principles • Principle 7 : Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; • Principle 8 : undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and • Principle 9 : encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Assessment, Policy and Goals Anderson has always been in support of eco-friendly practices. We truly understand the importance of the minimal use of resources and the minimal waste buildup. As such, it is the one of the company’s policy to practice the “Three Rs” (Reduce, Reuse and Recycle). We are also gradually transitioning into a using less paper, promoting the use of e-manuals to view the course materials during our training programmes. Implementation Anderson has implemented the following measures to ensure that the environment will be preserved and to prevent any incidents: ➢ A guide on how to “Reduce, Reuse and Recycle” has been posted throughout the office ➢ Employees are required to turn off all office equipment after office hours ➢ A third-party recycling company has been collecting all paper waste ➢ Office equipment are regularly checked to maintain their efficiency and lower their power consumption ➢ Tablets/E-Books being used on our training courses instead of the traditional paper-based course materials ➢ Disposable cups have been replaced by ceramic reusable mugs to eliminate plastic waste ➢ Biodegradable paper bags and cloth bags are being used instead of plastic bags ➢ The office lighting has been changed to eco-friendly and power saving LED lights ➢ Notices are posted at the lavatory about minimal use of water to avoid unnecessary wastage ➢ A/Cs are kept at a constant temperature setting for optimal cooling and power usage Measurement of Outcomes With the implementation of the “Three Rs”, the company has effectively minimized the waste production by up to 50%. The electricity and water bill has been reduced by up to 40% due to the practice of turning off all equipment during out of office hours, and by replacing the lighting to LED lights. 90% of the waste production has been eliminated regarding the use of disposable cups, plates and cutlery, along with eliminating the use of plastic bags. Page 5 Anti-Corruption Principles • Principle 10 : Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Assessment, Policy and Goals Anderson is strongly against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. It is the policy of Anderson to conduct all business transactions in an honest, transparent and ethical manner. Anderson as a company, its employees and any person associated has never offered illicit payments and/or any form of bribery. Implementation Anderson has implemented the following measures to ensure that Anti-Corruption principles will be followed and strictly implemented: ➢ Management’s email has been active as a channel for reporting concerns regarding corruption and malpractice. Employees, clients and partners are encouraged to report any concerns to the given email address. ➢ All employees have been briefed with an anti-corruption guide as well as the anti-corruption law of the U.A.E. ➢ Internal and external auditing are regularly conducted to ensure that all transactions are legitimate and legal Measurement of Outcomes Anderson has never been involved in any criminal offense related to false statements and misrepresentations. Anderson maintains its clean judicial record; all business duties and responsibilities are in line with laws and regulations of its country of registration and demonstrates proper business conduct and ethics. Moreover, Anderson is an advocate of anti-corruption and communicates this to all clients and suppliers where appropriate. Page 6
