C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S 2 0 2 0 Cowshed x United Nations Global Compact COP October 2020 When we started Cowshed, we made each other a promise that we’d only deliver campaigns that work, for clients we love and causes we believe in. Cowshed x United Nations Global Compact COP October 2020 I am pleased to confirm that Cowshed maintains its support for the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In our very first Communication on Progress, we are excited to describe the actions we have taken continually to improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Best, Managing Director 23.10.2020 Cowshed x United Nations Global Compact COP October 2020 Businesses should: COMMITMENTS AND GOALS IMPLEMENTATION MEASUREMENT Principle 1: Cowshed opposes all forms of unlawful and Cowshed is committed to eliminating We will continue to measure our support and respect the unfair discrimination. Our aim is that our discrimination in both its role as an protection of human rights by: protection of internationally staff and volunteers represent all sections employer and as a provider of services. We of society and work in an environment do this by: • Discussing and scrutinising our policies proclaimed human rights and; and practices at our quarterly director where everyone is respected and able to perform to the best of their ability. • Providing safe, suitable and sanitised meetings Principle 2: work facilities • Ensuring all staff and suppliers make sure that they are not • Outlining our equal opportunities and understand our commitment and have complicit in human rights We acknowledge and respect the core principles of the Universal Declaration of grievance policy in our staff handbook signed our code of conduct by the end abuses. • Implementing workplace taskforces to of the year Human Rights and the International Labour Organisation. Our employees are: assess and improve our approach to • Monitoring our workplace taskforce company culture, diversity and inclusion strategies and KPIs • Free to join a union and mental health • Achieving Blueprint status • Free from discrimination • Working with organisations which • Free from forced or child labour actively support and promote human rights (e.g. Comic Relief, Forward Trust, Cowshed has no direct experience of UN Refugee Agency) human rights abuses. Over the next 12 • Choosing who we work with carefully – months we are reviewing all our existing turning down business if we deem it processes and practices. We will make unethical clear our commitment to our staff and the • Offering pro-bono or reduced rate work people we work with through publishing to support our communities our code of conduct and updating our • Holding ourselves accountable and to policies as required. standard by applying for industry accreditation e.g. Blueprint kitemark Cowshed x United Nations Global Compact COP October 2020 Businesses should: COMMITMENTS AND GOALS IMPLEMENTATION MEASUREMENT Principle 3: Cowshed does not tolerate discrimination Each of member of Cowshed is responsible We will continue to measure our uphold the freedom of against any person whether in the field of to ensure we maintain a safe and inclusive commitment to equal labour opportunities association and the effective recruitment, terms and conditions of workplace for everyone. We adhere to by: recognition of the right to employment, career progression, training, employment and labour legislation and transfer or dismissal. All employees have ensure fairness by: • Discussing and scrutinising our policies collective bargaining; and practices at our quarterly director the right to join a union, collective bargaining and a fair hearing for any • Outlining our equal opportunities, antimeetings Principle 4: harassment, health and safety, and • Continuing and improving our current the elimination of all forms of grievances. grievance policies in our staff handbook initiatives forced and compulsory labour • Paying staff and interns living wage as a • Making our commitments and policies Specifically we will not tolerate direct or indirect discrimination on grounds of age, minimum available and transparent Principle 5: • Conducting six month performance • Introducing and monitoring our new the effective abolition of child disability, gender/gender reassignment, marriage/civil partnership, reviews and annual salary reviews blind recruitment strategy labour; and • Providing flexible working opportunities, • Continuing to monitor and grow the pregnancy/maternity, race, religion or belief, sexual orientation. time off for out of hours working and all diversity of our workforce and supply Principle 6: religious holidays chain the elimination of discrimination • Introducing Wales’ first BAME internship in respect of employment and We aim to create and nurture a working environment and culture in which people in communications – now in its second Cowshed will always take immediate action occupation. year to investigate and address discrimination in can be open, make the best use of their talents and have the right conditions and • Paying for all staff CPD schemes and ring the workplace and our supply chain. opportunities to thrive. fencing 2hrs a week for CPD activities • Employing people based on skill alone Our workplace taskforces are in place to • Choosing who we work with carefully – make sure we deliver on our promises over turning down business if we deem it the next year and beyond. unethical • Implementing annual staff surveys and an anonymous feedback initiative Cowshed x United Nations Global Compact COP October 2020 Businesses should: COMMITMENTS AND GOALS IMPLEMENTATION MEASUREMENT Principle 7: Cowshed’s environmental impact is two Doing right by our communities and We will continue to measure our support a precautionary fold: our own footprint and the affect of contributing positively to our environment commitment to reduce our environmental approach to environmental projects we deliver. naturally sits with Cowshed’s ethos. We do impact by: challenges; this by: We are committed to calculating our own • Discussing and scrutinising our policies carbon footprint and exploring ways for us • Recycling, waste and paper saving and practices at our quarterly director Principle 8: to become carbon neutral. policies meetings undertake initiatives to promote • Using a cloud system for project, time • Continuing and improving our current greater environmental Over the next year we will have a robust and finance management initiatives responsibility; and environmental policy with key targets in • Purchasing upcycled or used furniture as • Monitoring our environmental policy place. Our new office space has been built much as possible and KPIs Principle 9: to be energy efficient (LED motion sensor • Planting trees through Size of Wales • Making our commitments and policies encourage the development and lighting throughout, zip taps, recycling partnership upon each new business available and transparent diffusion of environmentally stations). We will continue to develop the win • Ensuring all staff and suppliers friendly technologies. workspace to discourage waste, such as • Using local and environmentally understand our commitment and have whiteboards in creative spaces. conscious suppliers for print production signed our code of conduct by the end • Working with organisations which of the year A requirement of our new client code of actively support and promote • Achieving Green Dragon status conduct will be the disclosure of company environmental causes (e.g. WWF) commitments to the environment. This will • Holding ourselves accountable and to allow us to put initiatives in place to offset standard by applying for industry impact where we can. accreditation e.g. Green Dragon Cowshed x United Nations Global Compact COP October 2020 Principle 10: COMMITMENTS AND GOALS IMPLEMENTATION MEASUREMENT Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, Cowshed is a responsible business that Confidence and trust between our team We will continue to measure our including extortion and bribery. believes deeply in doing the right thing. As and the people we work with is at the commitment to reduce our environmental such we have implemented a strict antiheart of our success. We do this by: impact by: bribery and corruption policy in line with the UK Bribery Act (2010). This is • Outlining our anti-corruption, • Discussing and scrutinising our policies fundamental to everything we do. disciplinary, non-retaliation and and practices at our quarterly director whistleblowing policies in our staff meetings A bribe is defined as: giving someone a handbook • Continuing to do business with other financial or other advantage to encourage • Training our staff annually on these new or established creative that person to perform their functions policies organisations improperly or to reward that person for • Choosing who we work with carefully – • Making our commitments and policies having already done so. turning down business if we deem it a available and transparent reputational, legal or financial risk • Signing the Anti-corruption call to action We always have and always will deem the • Partnering with other organisations in bribery of another person (internally or the creative industry to pitch and win externally, large or small value) to obtain, business to support fair competition retain or advantage business for Cowshed • Supporting start ups to build their as gross misconduct. business through our supply chain • Leading by example – our MD sets the Over the next year, we will sign up to the tone from the top Anti-corruption call to action and explore ways in which we can create fair Cowshed will always take immediate action competition for all. Our client code of to investigate and address acts of conduct will require the people we work corruption in the workplace or our supply with to disclose their anti-corruption chain. policies. Cowshed x United Nations Global Compact COP October 2020 Campaigns that work. Clients we love. Causes we believe in. Cowshed Communication LTD Park House, 1st Floor, Greyfriars Rd, Cardiff CF10 3AF T: 029 2078 9321 www.wearecowshed.co.uk Company registration number: 09103346 Cowshed x United Nations Global Compact COP October 2020
