Click here or press enter for the accessibility optimised version Global Sustainability Report 2020 United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress Click here or press enter for the accessibility optimised version Introduction A Message from our Global Chair Baker McKenzie became a signatory to the United Aligning with these SDGs not only provides us with a I am very proud of our commitment and commend this Nations Global Compact in 2015 and we are committed comprehensive framework to advance our CSR efforts, Global Compact Communication on Progress to you. As to continuing to uphold the Ten Principles on human it also gives us an opportunity to partner with likethe first truly global law firm with a track record as a and labor rights, the environment and anti‐‐corruption. minded people from our clients, governments, firm of firsts, we are uniquely placed to make lasting This is reflected in our strategy, policies and standards multilateral organizations and civil society to work change. We are committed to using our global platform ensuring we continue to deliver long term commercial together to realize the vision of a sustainable world. and local knowledge to help address some of the success, whilst simultaneously responding to the evolving Business cannot operate effectively in a world biggest issues facing the world. expectations of society. hampered by poverty, inequality, conflict and environmental deterioration. Best Regards In 2018 we undertook a materiality assessment in order to identify and prioritize the Environmental, Social and The SDGs are also important because we advise our Governance (ESG) issues impacting and impacted by the clients on the sustainability issues on the horizon for Firm. We used the outcome of that to align with those their industries both risks and opportunities. We must Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) where we can make take action on climate change; with our renewables, the most significant positive difference. climate and finance practices working together using their combined expertise to address the multifaceted The SDGs that we have aligned with reflect our own and our challenges and opportunities of what is the biggest clients' commitment to inclusion and diversity, climate long-term issue facing humanity. SDGs are also vital for action, anticorruption and ethics as well as our commitment how we attract and retain talent millennials make up to collaborating with like-minded companies and an increasingly large proportion of workforce and organizations around the world. increasingly want to work for purpose-driven Baker McKenzie’s Sustainable Business Strategy Our mission statement as a global law firm is ‘to support and serve our communities across the globe.’ It is the foundation of our sustainable business strategy, and a responsibility we take extremely seriously. We recognize how our business impacts people, the environment, communities and wider society and we have a duty to not only respond, but have a lasting positive impact. Last year, we conducted a global materiality assessment to identify which of the 17 UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) to prioritize and embed in our sustainable business strategy. This involved surveying over 1,400 internal and external stakeholders worldwide to understand which Environmental, Social and Governance issues matter most to our people, our clients and the wider community. Our Prioritized Sustainable Development Goals Each of our 29 Tier 1 and 2 material topics identified was evaluated against the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and 169 corresponding targets, to identify how the Firm is best positioned to impact and communicate progress against the SDGs. The outcome confirmed that we can have the greatest influence over the delivery of the following eight SDGs. Video: Why have we aligned with the SDGs? Our People and the Sustainable Development Goals We asked our people: 'Which Sustainable Development Goals are important to you and why?' The responses were passionate and personal: we must leverage our resources and expertise to work towards a fair and just world, with environmental and social justice for all. Video: Which SDG is important to you and why? Click here or press enter for the accessibility optimised version Social Social Our people are our biggest asset. That's why we are committed to fostering a diverse, inclusive and safe workplace. Where development is encouraged, wellness is supported, and equality is paramount, everyone can fulfil their potential. We strive to use our skills, creativity and influence to promote dignity, human rights and equality in every aspect of what we do. Whether fostering our own internal culture, interacting with global clients, or engaging with the communities where we live and work, we are guided by these principles. These commitments are at the core of who we are as a Firm. They are underpinned by our support of the UN Global Compact’s Ten Principles, and reflected clearly in the results of our materiality assessment which identified Workplace Diversity and Inclusion; Employee Wellbeing; Non-Discrimination; Talent Attraction, Growth and Development; Pro Bono Efforts; and Human Rights and Labor Practices as being of paramount importance to our stakeholders. Accordingly, three of our eight prioritized SDGs fall under this category: Gender Equality; Decent Work and Economic Growth; and Reduced Inequalities. This section of the report refers to our commitments to the following Principles of the UN Global Compact: Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; Principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Click here or press enter for the accessibility optimised version Gender Equality Gender Equality Video: Why is Gender Equality important to Baker McKenzie? Baker McKenzie strives to be a community where To that end, we have introduced ambitious global everyone can reach their full potential, regardless of their aspirational targets set at 40:40:20 per cent gender gender, orientation, belief, background, ethnicity or diversity, to represent 40% women, 40% men and 20% personal needs. Equality of opportunity is key to this and, in flexible (women, men or non-binary persons). This target particular, achieving gender parity. We believe women must be applies to Partners, senior business professionals, Firm leaders at all levels of the Firm and are investing in a gender committee leadership and candidate pools for recruitment, balanced pipeline and ensuring a more equal spread of senior with a target date of 1 July 2025. We have coupled our leadership roles. Our Firm aims to engage all our people as ambitious targets with key sponsorship initiatives, such as active allies and champions for gender diversity; encourage and LIFT – Leaders Investing for Tomorrow – which is a focused increase dialogue, understanding and commitment to gender 12-month leadership development program. Together, these inclusion through shared stories and public declarations; and mark a big step towards providing equal opportunities for create a culture of openness by speaking up and receiving women at all levels at the Firm. feedback about actions and decisions that affect the experience and progression of women at Baker McKenzie. Promoting Gender Equality Progress Towards our Gender Targets LIFT Sponsorship Program ▪ Catalyst CEO for Change – our Global Chair, Milton Launched in 2017, Leaders Investing For Tomorrow (LIFT) Cheng, has joined more than 60 CEOs to accelerate is a landmark sponsorship initiative for Baker McKenzie progress in the representation of women into senior women, designed to support key talent in progressing to leadership and board positions. senior leadership roles. A personalized and focused 12-month leadership development program, LIFT pairs high-potential ▪ HeForShe – we have joined UN initiative, HeForShe, a women partners with Firm principals, who work closely global movement for gender equality. We engage all our with practice group leadership to accelerate opportunities people as active allies and champions for gender for career advancement. 80+ women have participated in diversity through shared stories and public declarations. the LIFT program since its commencement, many of whom have since advanced to equity partnership and senior ▪ Women’s Empowerment Principles we are proud leadership roles at the Firm. signatories of the WEP, an initiative of UN Women and the UN Global Compact – which reflects our commitment to the promotion of gender equality and women’s empowerment. “Baker McKenzie and the Catalyst CEO Champions For Change have taken concrete steps to create change for women, including women of color, in the workplace. These leaders exemplify the immense power of action, and we are proud and honored to be working alongside them.” Catalyst President and CEO Lorraine Hariton Leaders Investing for Tomorrow Supporting Gender Equality through Pro Bono We are proud to leverage our expertise and global Supporting Women Survivors of Domestic Violence in presence to advance Gender Equality through our pro Prison. bono legal services, including direct representation and The Firm is working alongside UnCommon Law and Apple to key client partnerships, as well as supporting our local help represent inmates seeking help in preparing for an communities and NGOs globally. We are honored to have upcoming parole hearing. This project includes reviewing the support of our many clients who partner with us daily on transcripts for women who are facing parole hearings for these meaningful, often ground-breaking projects. extreme sentences often related to domestic violence cases. Our work extended to a successful commutation of a lengthy This year, they have included: sentence for a woman convicted of attempted murder. Global Rights for Women Helping Trafficking Victims Clear Legal Issues in Toronto. We continue to assist Global Rights for Women, a leading Our Toronto office worked with Covenant House on behalf of voice in the global movement to end violence against women a trafficking survivor on an appeal before the Ontario Court and girls, working through international partnerships to of Justice involving a high number of parking ticket advance laws, values, and practices to create communities convictions and a driver's license denial (totaling thousands in where all women and girls live free from violence and threats overdue fines) issued to her during the period she was being of violence. We are working with Global Rights for Women to trafficked and while her trafficker used her vehicle. The craft a comparative analysis of domestic violence laws for convictions were reversed from the bench following our targeted jurisdictions across the world for Global Rights for team's robust submissions. This victory allows her to drive to Women to use in trainings and advocacy on implementation support sessions and work. of new laws. Click here or press enter for the accessibility optimised version Decent Work and Economic Growth Decent Work and Economic Growth Our commitment to Decent Work and Economic Growth is underpinned by a range of initiatives to ensure full and productive employment and decent work for all of our people. This includes our social mobility efforts, where we’ve made strides in ensuring that opportunities are afforded to a wide range of people, without any barriers in the recruitment process. It also includes our commitment to promote wellbeing, provide safe and secure working environments for everyone and develop our people's talent and promote their growth. ▪ Social Mobility ▪ Wellbeing and Agile Working ▪ Healthy and Safe Work Environment ▪ Professional Support and Development ▪ Supporting Access to Decent Work and Economic Growth Social Mobility Our associate Bobby’s first visit to a Baker McKenzie office was back in 2008 when as a teenager, he attended a Business in the Community event for ethnic We have a longstanding commitment to social mobility minority students from disadvantaged backgrounds. and increasing access to the legal profession. We believe The experience was a game changer. It struck him that, that everyone should have equal opportunity to succeed “surprisingly, there were lawyers at the Firm from and realize their potential no-one should be at a minority backgrounds like me – if they can do it, why disadvantage because of who they are and where they can’t I?” It inspired him to work even harder in school, come from. As a Firm, our approach is to find the right and he returned to the Firm as a trainee. He’s now an candidates, regardless of their background. That is why we associate. “I would not trade my life experiences for strive to ensure we are broadening access and opportunities anything. They have taught me resilience. Because the to talent from all backgrounds within our Firm and in the Laura Fisher Firm has challenged perceptions and broken down legal profession more widely. We define our work in this barriers, I feel I could go all the way. It’s up to me!” area by our commitment and ability to attract, recruit, develop and engage individuals from different socioOur senior associate, Laura, is very proud of her economic backgrounds. heritage. She talks candidly about the challenges she faced coming from a working-class family and how, as a In the UK, the Firm uses Rare Contextual Data which child, she secured a state-funded assisted place (similar enables us to recruit the best people from all social to a scholarship) at a top school. She was cautious when backgrounds by understanding a candidate's achievements deciding on a law firm to work for, and was worried in the context in which they were gained. We work closely about experiencing that feeling of not belonging with external graduate partners including the Black Lawyers again. Speaking about working in our London office, she Directory Foundation, the Social Mobility Foundation, Rare says she feels “lucky to be in an environment where Recruitment and Aspiring Solicitors, and introduced blind everyone is able to thrive despite and even because of screening four years ago in order to reduce unconscious bias. their background.” Bobby Sarkodee-Ado ▪ Each year, our London office commits to offering a professional integration. Micro-businesses run by number of work experience places through PRIME and participants are at the core of LP4Y’s one-year Our London office was ranked 5th in the the Social Mobility Foundation. PRIME is an alliance of professional training. In teams of 15, the young adults 2019 Social Mobility Employer Index – and law firms across the UK, committed to improving access work on the creation, development and management of was the highest ranking law firm. to the legal profession through work experience. The a business to develop their skills and prepare for Social Mobility Foundation aims to provide opportunities professional integration. The index is the creation of the Social and networks of support to 16-17 year olds from lowMobility Foundation and ranks the UK's income families. Our work placement program is ▪ Our London office hosted two work experience weeks for employers on the actions they are taking to designed to encourage and develop key personal and year 12 school students from less privileged backgrounds, ensure they are open to accessing and business skills, such as team work, communication, interested in careers in law. The programs included progressing talent from all socio-economic presentation, negotiation, making an impact and training in presentation skills, applications and interviews backgrounds. networking, which are fundamental to a career in law and commercial awareness. All students had the and the wider business world. Last year, interns joined opportunity to spend at least half of their week working our Marketing, HR and Practice Group teams, working alongside lawyers in different teams across the business. closely with colleagues before delivering their end of The participants had the opportunity to work on internship presentation. proposals for a new app for Google, and to visit their offices to present it. ▪ We continue to support the Life Project for Youth Association (LP4Y), an organization dedicated to the ▪ Our Africa Team partnered with local clients to professional and social integration of young adults provide a three day training course for 50 students living in extreme poverty and exclusion in the from the Nigerian Law Society on both technical legal Philippines, Vietnam, India and Indonesia. The initiative and soft skills. offers 18 months of experience in a professional environment through placements at one of more than 120 businesses that provide financial support, microeconomic initiatives, academic support or Wellbeing and Agile Working At Baker McKenzie, we care about our people. We want to support them to thrive and we know that our professional and personal lives do not operate independently. They influence each other. By providing a safe and supportive working environment, we can improve the overall wellbeing of all our people. The legal environment can be high-pressure and demanding. By raising awareness of this and providing support for maintaining physical and mental wellbeing, we can create a positive and supportive environment that helps everyone to work healthily and successfully. Agile working patterns, including alternative hours, working from home and adaptive time off can be a key enabler of a health work-life balance. Video: Why is Wellbeing important to Baker McKenzie? Michelle Blunt London-based IP Partner Michelle Blunt has been a leading voice in the Firm on the importance of wellbeing and removing the stigma around mental health. She created this video in order to encourage her colleagues to prioritize wellbeing. I made the video with the help of my 8 year old son, Felix. I felt it was important to frame wellbeing in the context of what we do as a business to raise understanding that this is not just a “nice to have” for us, but it’s a © Michelle Blunt “must have” if we are to succeed. I also made it because I, like all of us, spend a lot of my life at work or thinking about work and it’s important to me that it is a positive force in my life rather than something that needs to be endured. Michelle Blunt bAgile Baker McKenzie is committed to providing its people Regine Corrado, who is now the managing partner of with access to a wide range of flexible and agile work our Chicago office, worked part-time after having her arrangements as they continue to meet the needs of children. A first at the time, she explains how, with the our clients and our global business. support of the Firm, she found the right work-life balance. “I got to the office before 8am in the morning, Whether working across time zones and locations, pursuing left the office at 2:30pm every afternoon and would go health and wellbeing, undertaking further study, supporting back to work at night after my daughters went to sleep. family and carer commitments, balancing times of high You could call me an ‘early adopter’ to what is now a client demand with quieter periods, managing travel, very normal flexible work schedule.” experiencing major life events, or pursuing passions and Julia Hemmings and Helen Brown. Photo by © Suzanne Plunkett interests, having some choice in where, when and how they work helps our people irrespective of gender to pursue a fulfilling life outside work as well as in it. London partners Julia Hemmings and Helen Brown began to job share in 2013. In 2019, they were jointly bAgile is Baker McKenzie's global initiative to increase access promoted to partnership. One of the key questions we to flexible and agile working, and supports and encourages had going through the partnership process was whether our offices to develop policies, guidelines and approaches to we were going to be judged separately or together. It facilitate four types of flexible working: was very important to us that it be together. Our practice is a team effort. We were very clear that we ▪ Remote Working would both be promoted to partner or neither of us, ▪ Alternative Hours since we were being assessed on our practice. Read ▪ Less than Full-time Working about their job share experience here Regine Corrado and daughters ▪ Time Off Disability Healthy and Safe Work Environment At Baker McKenzie, we are building a workplace culture A healthy and safe work environment is fundamental to maintaining a happy and high-performing workforce. The which is inclusive of all. We believe that each individual safety and wellbeing of all our people is a top priority for our leadership, and as outlined in our Code of Business Conduct, the has unique skills, talents and strengths that should be Firm does not tolerate harassment of any kind in the workplace, whether in or outside the office, or through social media. nurtured and developed. We are committed to providing equal access to employment opportunities to qualified We recognize our responsibility to provide a safe, respectful and inclusive space for our people to bring their whole selves to individuals with visible and hidden disabilities and those work. As such, we have launched a Firm-wide initiative called ‘PointONE’, which sets out new policies and training to set clear with long term health conditions. expectations, additional avenues for raising concerns and complaints, and improved processes to ensure that unacceptable behavior (including discrimination, sexual harassment and bullying) is addressed promptly and effectively. We have called this Any person with a disability or long term (physical or initiative ‘PointONE’ because it is a key priority for the Firm. mental) health condition will be treated equally and reasonable adjustments will be objectively considered. As far as possible, a range of adjustments will be considered with the employee to ensure that workplace barriers are removed and that colleagues can be well at work. Video: What makes a good employer? PointONE Peter May, our Chief People Officer, talks about our latest program, PointONE, and its core principles. Peter May Chief People Officer Is everything being done to create a workplace culture Our three core policies are the foundation of the PointONE where openness and respect is the norm? It's a question I program. They deal with Workplace Behavior, Alcohol and ask myself regularly in my role as Chief People Officer, of Prohibited Substances, and Relationship at Work. They apply course, but it's one we all need to constantly ask ourselves to all our people and are embedded in our Code of Business — for everyone has a part to play in creating and Conduct, which sends a clear message to everyone about maintaining a psychologically safe workplace. At Baker how seriously we're taking these important topics. McKenzie, we are working hard to make sure every person feels valued, respected and listened to. We are also making it easier for all our people to raise and discuss any concerns about behavior that might breach In 2019 we launched the PointONE program, our Firm-wide these policies, so we have introduced the PointONE commitment to a respectful, safe and inclusive working Contact role. environment. PointONE is about communicating clear expectations for behavior, and providing clear, safe paths for raising and managing concerns. A PointONE contact is, quite simply, the first person you might think to talk to if you are concerned about conduct at work. Partners, senior associates and senior business professionals from all around our Firm have told us they want to help, to be involved and so are undergoing robust training to ensure they're well equipped. Importantly, this is in addition to the existing channels for raising concerns. We are in the early stages of the program so we don't yet have PointONE contacts in every location, but this program has our fullest commitment and we will be training more contacts in every region over the coming months. We still have work to do to ensure that these and other steps result in an environment in which all of our people feel able to speak up and voice their concerns, confident in the knowledge that they will be supported and see appropriate action taken. However, our message is clear. Sexual harassment, discrimination and bullying have no place at Baker McKenzie. Peter Professional Support and Development Our learning comes via four primary sources: We are committed to developing the talents and skills of our people, and we actively promote a culture of 1. Associate Training 3. Leadership Development learning. Employees are encouraged to expand their In all our regions we run training courses at three At two key leadership transitions we run development knowledge and expertise throughout their careers. Our milestone stages of our associates' careers which cover a centres to help our people think about and plan for philosophy around learning is to support the fully rounded, broad set of capabilities for today's business world, these transitions. We also run five other leadership holistic development of our people. including: programmes each year supporting leadership development in five populations: new partners, future Our Development Framework was one of the first of its kind ▪ project management female leaders, client relationship leaders, rising star adopted by a law firm and selected by Harvard Business ▪ health and wellbeing leaders and enterprise leaders. School as one of its best practice case studies on talent ▪ collaboration and candor management. The framework outlines the skills and ▪ innovation 4. Coaching and mentoring personal qualities employees need in order to be successful ▪ influence and communication We provide access to both internal and external coaches when working here, and offers a clear roadmap to success to ▪ managing your own career for people going through especially difficult leadership help employees fulfill their potential. The framework takes challenges. We also run a network of mentoring circles into account all the complexities, challenges and 2. Self study that create supportive development communities for opportunities of a dynamic legal career, and it provides It is important to provide easy access to learning so people can particular groups. These are primarily female lawyer everyone in our Firm with a common language for control their own learning path. Our bespoke Learning mentoring circles and ethnic minority circles. discussing performance. Management system houses a library of bespoke training and recorded webinars, plus we give our people access to the best Our training courses are being adapted to combine distance externally available content via online access to Harvard, learning and self-study elements to reduce the travel burden CultureWizard and LinkedIn Learning. on our people and to achieve our sustainability targets. Topics discussed included ▪ Purposeful Leadership: aligning personal and company values by bringing purpose to business; ▪ Inclusion and Diversity: creating a genuinely inclusive work culture; ▪ The Employee Experience: elevating the employee experience to top of mind; and ▪ AI and the Future of Work: opportunities and We are in a period of unprecedented transformation, challenges of technological advancement. Lisa Sterling and Baker McKenzie's Michael Michalandos on the Employee driven by technological development, globalization Experience and significant demographic changes. Our world is hyper-connected, and the pace of change is rapid, bringing social and political transformation and creating profound global shifts in expectations. Global employers must evolve rapidly to meet these disruptive forces head-on and to thrive in this future of work. At our annual Global Employer Forum, we bring together senior leadership from progressive global organizations, as well as distinguished thought leaders in industry and academia to discuss the evolving employee experience and the megatrends impacting the future of work. Dr Ayanna Howard and Baker McKenzie's Kim Sartin on AI and the Future of Paul Polman and Baker McKenzie's Kevin Coon on Purposeful Leadership Work Read the full report on megatrends affecting the future of work here. Supporting Access to Decent Work and Economic Growth The Refugee Integration Program, which launched in the Firm to employ refugees on a fixed term internship. that they offered him a labor contract. He is now employed our Milan office in 2017 and is now a multi-awardThey are provided with training and a salary, and in some and on a full-time salary. Most importantly, after a five-year winning project, has now placed almost 50 refugees cases, a place to live. They are given the chance to develop separation, David was finally able to fly his daughter to live from countries including Syria, Somalia and the Ivory their skills and gain essential qualifications, raising their with him in Italy. He hadn't seen her since he left the Ivory Coast in secure work placements or permanent careers. confidence and facilitating their steady entry into the labor Coast when she was just a year old. She's now in full-time market. Andrea Cicala, a partner in the Milan office, and the education. In partnership with local NGO 'Farsi Prossimo', The Università creator of the project says, We wanted to provide the first Statale of Milan and the United Nations High Commissioner step in helping them regain their self-esteem , to give them Andrea says, For me, this was something to be truly proud for Refugees (UNHCR), the program encourages clients of their first real opportunity at success in Italy, in the hope we of. My family and I met recently with David and his family, can help to build their future. and I was overwhelmed to hear how well they are doing and how much he has achieved since joining our program. To And this project has done just that. The first refugee who date, the Promoting Refugees in the Workplace Program has was taken on as part of this project, was David,* from the placed more than 50 refugees in 18 months, and almost 40% Ivory Coast. He was granted asylum in 2017 and despite of them have been given the opportunity to turn their having a degree in sociology, was informed by volunteer internship into a stable job. This is by far in excess of the career advisors that the most that he could hope for would average rate of agency placement of refugees. be to be employed as a cleaner or a taxi driver. Another Baker McKenzie client who has embraced this Andrea Cicala contacted Sky and they were very eager to program is Roberto Cavalli. Silvia Carteny, general counsel at Abd Alaghawani and Andrea Cicala with Filippo Grandi, United Nations High become involved. They hired David to join their HR team. the Italian fashion house, explains that they currently Commissioner for Refugees. Photo courtesy of UNHCR/A.Penso After a few months, Sky was so impressed with his work employ three team members. The refugees come from Pakistan, Gambia and El Salvador and work in our tailoring, prototyping and creative departments, respectively. We have been so impressed by the skills they bring to their work, and also at the way they have enriched the culture and community of Roberto Cavalli. We have received incredible feedback from those colleagues who have worked and lived with them, so I hope that we as a company continue to support this project, and inspire others to do so in the future . As a pioneer of this project, our Firm has led by example. The Firm initially recruited three refugees who all successfully completed the program. One refugee from Syria, Abd Alaghawani, joined its IT team and is now on a permanent contract. We have recently welcomed a fourth program participant from the Ivory Coast. For Andrea Cicala, this program isn't about charity. It's about opportunity. We want to integrate people, but we want to integrate in a way that adds value for the company and to importantly, it has changed lives. It has changed the lives of the refugee. We aren't providing charity. We're providing the refugees we have helped, but it has also changed the We aren't providing charity. We're providing opportunities for people to contribute, to realize their full lives of those who have worked with the refugees. I am opportunities for people to contribute, to potential, to change their future . proud to count myself very much among those people . realize their full potential, to change their future . This project has won awards, it has received praise from *To protect his anonymity, we haven't used David's real name Andrea Cicala clients, NGOs and international bodies involved, but most Click here or press enter for the accessibility optimised version Reduced Inequalities Reduced Inequalities As a law firm and global employer, it is our responsibility to ensure equal opportunities for all our people. Baker McKenzie strives to be a community where everyone can reach their full potential, a community where differences are celebrated. Baker McKenzie Receives 2019 Mansfield Plus Certification We seek to create the best workplace for every employee, regardless of their orientation, belief, background, ethnicity The Diversity Lab, an incubator for innovative ideas and or personal needs. To this end, we are engaged throughout solutions that boost diversity and inclusion in law, has the Firm in building a culture of full inclusion, and diversity awarded Baker McKenzie the highest designation of is a top priority. We are also deeply engaged in Diversity and Mansfield Plus Certification. The Mansfield Certification Inclusion (D&I) efforts in the communities where we work. recognizes firms who affirmatively consider at least 30% The Firm takes part in and sponsors Pride celebrations women, attorneys of color, and LGBTQ lawyers for around the world and marks days like International Day significant firm leadership and governance roles, equity Against Homophobia, Transphobia and Biphobia (IDAHOBIT), partner promotions and senior-level lateral hiring. Black History Month, Holi and many more. D&I is fundamental to our identity at Baker McKenzie. As one of The Plus status recognizes that, in addition to meeting the world’s largest global law firms, this inclusive mind set Certification requirements, the Firm has achieved at enables us to deliver the highest quality of services to our least 30% diversity in a notable number of current clients. leadership positions and committees. ▪ Race, Culture and Ethnicity ▪ LGBT+ Race, Culture and Ethnicity Race, culture and ethnicity mean different things in commitment to tackle barriers facing ethnic minorities in different countries, so a single approach to ethnic and the workplace. cultural diversity is ill-advised. This is why we build practices from the ground up, taking local cultural ▪ Colour Brave – We developed this initiative to advance sensitivities into consideration wherever we practice law. our racial and ethnic diversity goals and increase the Baker McKenzie’s Inaugural Lawyers of Color Conference We strive to address a lack of equity around the world and representation of ethnic minorities in our London office. encourage each of our offices to define race/ethnic diversity Baker McKenzie was the first law firm in London to in a way that suits their local culture, politics, clients and introduce name blind recruitment, removing the Our North America region held our inaugural Lawyers of business environment. potential for discrimination based on name. In March, our Color Conference in Washington, DC. With over 160 London office announced a minimum target of 14% participants, including many senior leaders, the ▪ BAME Mentoring Circles Last year we launched our Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic (BAME) conference focused on community, authenticity, and BakerEthnicity Mentoring Circles to support our Black, representation across all levels of the London office. inclusion. Our goal was to strengthen a sense of Asian and Minority Ethnic (BAME) colleagues as they belonging, bring our diverse talent together, and work navigate their careers at the Firm, and to inspire an Our US and Canada offices recently adopted targets for to further fortify a culture where we can all thrive. This ongoing conversation as part of our commitment to racial and ethnic minorities to comprise 15% of equity initiative is an example of how we are responding to a being Colour Brave. To celebrate its first year, partners; 20% of non-equity partners and 15% of need for innovative actions to improve the experience of BakerEthnicity held a lunchtime discussion in our London leadership by 2025. our lawyers of color within the firm. The event served as office, for colleagues to hear from the programs current the launch of the 'Success Initiative', aimed at improving mentees about their experiences. the representation of lawyers of color at the Firm. ▪ Race at Work Charter UK – We were one of the first law firms to become a signatory, representing a collective LGBT+ At Baker McKenzie, we are not neutral. Everyone should feel comfortable in the workplace, regardless of their sexual orientation or gender identity and expression. We are committed to creating and maintaining an open and supportive working environment. This includes equal opportunity for advancement and development within the Firm, regardless of actual or perceived sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, and the equal provision of benefits to same and opposite sex partners or spouses. Our Firm supports opportunities for engagement with our clients on LGBT+ issues, including communicating and sharing best practices. Finally, we maintain policies and practices which ensure that LGBT+ people and their significant others are treated with welcoming acceptance and with the same dignity and respect that we show all others. Video: Harry Small Senior Counsel, what is #WeAreNotNeutral? Statement in support of our transgender Promoting LGBT+ Equality community: ▪ BakerPride+Allies Business Resource Group This ▪ Global procurement Interactions with our suppliers brings together partners and senior business services provide a unique opportunity for the Firm to “At Baker McKenzie, we are not neutral. Our goal is professionals from across the globe to advance LGBT+ communicate our commitments to diversity and to ensure the safety, comfort and respect of all our equality. The group is supported by 'in-country' LGBT+ inclusion, including in respect of LGBT+ equality, while people, while maximizing workplace integration Liaisons, who are often partners responsible for ensuring also ensuring that they are aware of our values and, and minimizing stigmatization. We do not permit or that their local offices participate as much as possible (to where necessary, act in accordance. The BRG has worked tolerate discrimination. We want to publicly the extent that it is safe and legal to do so). As a result, with Global Procurement to update policies and demonstrate our support for all transgender we have a number of active local employee groups who practices, in line with our Code of Business Conduct individuals within our Firm and their partners. We advocate for LGBT+ equality in their jurisdictions. which ensures non-discrimination in respect of race, are proud to have recently launched a policy in color, creed, religion, citizenship, national origin, ethnicity North America, and in London, which addresses the ▪ LGBT+ Client Program LGBT+ inclusion is an and cultural background, age, sex, gender, gender needs of transgender, gender non-conforming and increasingly important issue for our clients, many of identity and expression, sexual orientation, marital non-binary employees. These guidelines clarify how whom are public advocates for change. Our client status, pregnancy, and disability. we protect the legal rights and safety of all trans program aims to both support the Firm and our clients to employees and support our wider Global Code of build LGBT+ inclusive community. The program will ▪ Listening Ear The Global Listening Ear Program is a Business Conduct.” promote strategic and sustainable engagement with diversity program intended to provide an additional LGBT+ inclusive clients through knowledge sharing, pro means of support for our LGBT+ community and allies bono, networking and much more, and ensure that the throughout the Firm. Currently in place in our London Firm is in the best place to effectively respond to clients' office as well as the offices in our North America region, needs and opportunities. the program is designed to connect individuals within the Firm who would like to learn more about our culture, practices and policies in relation to LGBT+ inclusion. Celebrating our People As the first openly gay woman of color in our Johannesburg office, Lerisha Naidu recalls “the exercise of unlearning and overcoming the mental obstacles associated with not only a Loke Khoon Tan was one of our first equity partners at the childhood in Apartheid South Africa, but formative years Firm to come out. In this short film, he talks about being being set on an overwhelmingly heteronormative society open with clients, the support he has from colleagues and with gender biases that were intrinsically linked to culture challenges he faces as an openly gay man in law. and class”. Lerisha has worked on a number of important pro bono cases with her colleagues in the Johannesburg Loke (as he is called by colleagues and clients) said he “is office, in areas such as anti-corruption and the rights of indebted to our late chair, Paul Rawlinson, who encouraged refugees. She has been involved in career guidance projects me to come out in the Firm and to work in the Global to inspire high school students interested in a career in law. Diversity & Inclusion Committee.” She acts as a mentor to lawyers and aspirant lawyers alike. Lerisha was recently named on the 'Top 100 Most Michael Wong Influential Young South Africans' list. Michael Wong is a member of the Firm's Global Executive Committee, based in Taipei. I'm grateful for the Firm's unwavering support of equality for LGBT+ people, within the Firm and beyond. It's important to our people, our business, and is a key way we can support the objectives of SDG 10 reducing inequality. On a personal level, being out in the Firm has been very empowering for me, and I hope that it can help pave the way for others to feel comfortable being Nerisha Naidu Loke Khoon Tan their authentic selves at work. Supporting Reduced Inequality through Pro Bono Never Again” – the old South African flag case Adding LGBTQ+ History in Illinois Public Schools Ensuring Safeguards for LGBTQ+ Youth at Detention In 2019, Baker McKenzie successfully represented The Governor of Illinois has signed into law a bill that Facilities Johannesburg Pride in the South African Equality Court, in a includes LGBT+ history as part of the curriculum in Illinois We are working hand-in-hand with Lambda Legal to craft a dispute arising between Afriforum and the Nelson Mandela public schools, as well as ensures that textbooks are nonrobust evaluation of youth detention facilities to ensure Foundation ( NMF ), supported by the South African Human discriminatory on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, that LGBTQ+ safeguards are in place. This analysis will Rights Commission and Johannesburg Pride. NMF argued national origin, sexual orientation, gender identity, provide the launching point for pressing facilities to ensure that Apartheid was a serious crime against humanity and disability, and all other bases protected under the Illinois the actual protections required by law are in place to protect that gratuitous displays of the old South African flag, Human Rights Act. Our team drafted the proposed changes these youth. which was the national flag during Apartheid, sought to to the Illinois School Code, as well as a legislative memo in represent the endorsement of Apartheid, and for this support of the changes. Lawyers Against Abuse reason, should be considered hate speech. Read more here. Our Johannesburg office has partnered with Lawyers against Supporting Youth Voice for Real Change Abuse (LvA). LvA provides victims and survivors of genderAdvocacy to End Conversion Therapy To address the challenging realities facing LGBTQ+ youth, we based violence with direct legal services; all their clients are We continue to provide pro bono legal services to support are working with Lambda Legal and a select group of youth supported throughout their cases and beyond, with psychoEquality Australia's national advocacy efforts for the introduction leaders with lived experience to bring together service social support; and the lawyers work to strengthen the of legislation to ban LGBT+ conversion practices. Our Australian providers, advocates, and the business community to push justice system’s response to gender based violence. The offices held a panel discussion on the topic of gay conversion for actions and change. The first-of-its-kind LGBTQ+ Youth organization operates in Diepsloot one of the poorest, most therapy, convening LGBT+ advocates, a conversion therapy Community Exchange for Change will take place in Atlanta, under-serviced and violent communities in the South Africa. survivor, and human rights lawyers who have provided pro bono Georgia in May 2020. research support to Human Rights Law Center and Equality Click here or press enter for the accessibility optimised version Environment Environment Operating sustainably and responsibly underpins our Firm’s purpose and strategy and reflects our commitment to our people, our clients and our communities. Our efforts reflect our commitment to align our policies and operations with the United Nations Global Compact’s principles and to support the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals. We strive to integrate environmental sustainability meaningfully into our business strategies, operating models and critical processes. Our Materiality Assessment confirmed the importance of environmental responsibility to our people, clients and communities, with topics including Circular Economy, Energy, Emissions and Climate Change among our prioritized ESG issues. We contribute to environmental sustainability through strategic partnerships, pro bono and community service initiatives, and through our Climate, Environment and Energy practice groups. This section of the report refers to our commitments to the following Principles of the UN Global Compact: Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Our Carbon Emissions Reduction Targets This year, our Firm publicly announced a plan to and to clearly demonstrate our commitment. These targets credits. With respect to business air travel, which is the significantly reduce our global carbon emissions over are part of our Firm’s continuing effort to integrate Firm’s biggest emissions source, in addition to lessening nonthe next decade. The reductions are part of the Firm’s sustainability meaningfully into our strategy and operations. essential travel, we will assess investments in enhanced wider sustainability strategy and support of the UN video conferencing technology and redesign key meetings Sustainable Development Goals. Climate change is a priority and a concern for many people and events to make virtual attendance viable. The Firm at our Firm, as well as for our clients and the communities currently offsets all business air travel associated with our Climate change is one of the most pressing issues facing where we do business. Our various stakeholders want to annual and regional partners meetings, using offsets that humanity. Limiting warming requires everyone – including know that we are part of the solution. We plan to lower our provide social benefits in addition to carbon abatement, Baker McKenzie — to take action to reduce greenhouse gas energy consumption through improvements in the energy such as reducing poverty, improving health, empowering emissions, without delay. We are setting targets to improve efficiency of our offices (including a shift to green buildings women, job creation, or other benefits to local communities. environmental performance across our global operations, over time), as well as via procurement of renewable energy Click here or press enter for the accessibility optimised version Affordable & Clean Energy Affordable and Clean Energy The global transition to renewable energy is integral to achieving deep emissions reductions. Baker McKenzie is at the forefront of the energy transition and the impact this is having on the energy sector and the opportunities for oil and gas companies to enter the market at scale. Our world leading Renewable Energy Practice has unmatched experience across all renewable energy and clean technology types, including wind, solar, geothermal, landfill gas, biofuels, biomass, waste to energy and ocean energy. The power market is being transformed with the combination of the rise of cost-effective renewable energy and the progressive reduction and even elimination of subsidies, the decentralization of energy production, and improvements in energy storage, smart metering and other digital technology. The energy transition is the strategic focus of our global energy practice and we are working with our clients to help them navigate through this fast changing sector. Promoting Clean Energy We act for developers, lenders, investors, technology experts, professionals and Baker McKenzie practitioners Our new Thought Leadership piece, Opportunities for providers and other industry players on significant and from around the world gathered to discuss the global Corporate Procurement of Power in Sub-Saharan Africa high-profile renewable energy transactions across the renewable energy market including key developments and unpacks the opportunities, challenges and possible globe and we are the principal firm advising the trends, including the rise of digital technologies for smart structures of corporate PPAs in Ethiopia, Ghana, Kenya, biggest solar developer in Europe. grids, trends in offshore wind, corporate power purchase Namibia, Nigeria, South Africa, Tanzania, Zambia and agreements (PPAs), and risk appetite for institutional Zimbabwe. The report is intended to serve as an enabling We have also established a market leading reputation for investment in the energy sector. The theme of the tool to facilitate the expansion of corporate PPAs in these acting on corporate PPAs, having been involved in a number conference, Powering the New Energy Transition, countries. of negotiations for both buyers and sellers in renewable and generated varied discussion in factors contributing to the conventional technologies. growth in renewables, the challenges and obstacles, as well In collaboration with Schneider Electric, we have published as the role of government policy and incentives across the Corporate Renewables PPAs Guide, which sets out In March, we proudly hosted our 3rd Annual Global developed and emerging markets. Download the post-event best practice relevant to structuring and executing a Renewable Energy Conference. More than 200 industry report here. collaborative corporate PPAs. Sustainable Finance Financing the shift to a low carbon economy We are witnessing a monumental once in a lifetime paradigm change in the way global business operates. As our clients increasingly work towards achieving a greener and cleaner economy, and gain access to additional sources of capital to develop green energy projects and diversify into green investment portfolios – institutional investors, lenders and the largest global corporates, from a variety of industries, are moving to champion sustainability. We are proud to leverage our talent, innovation and relationships to make a positive and sustainable societal impact, and partner with our clients across several industries to help them execute their sustainability investments and strategy. Click here or press enter for the accessibility optimised version Responsible Consumption & Production Responsible Consumption and Production Reducing humanity's environmental footprint requires urgent and lasting changes in the way that we produce and consume goods and resources. As advisors to some of the world's largest businesses, we can support and help guide their shift towards sustainability. As a large global business in our own right, we are on a parallel journey, working to address our own consumption patterns, whether it’s setting appropriate targets to drive performance and progress, putting the right policies in place, or promoting sustainability through products and services we offer. Spotlight on: Consumer Goods & Retail Industry Group Driven by evolving consumer demand and our clients' Compact at the UN headquarters in New York. Around ▪ In collaboration with Positive Luxury, we led a webinar strategic priorities, our Consumer Goods & Retail 150 attendees listened to industry, UNGC and Baker and contributed to an editorial to help CG&R brands (CG&R) Industry Group has placed sustainability at the McKenzie experts address the latest sustainability trends identify concrete actions they can take in order to center of its strategy as early as 2017. Sustainability has and issues and enjoyed the opportunity to discuss with advance on the Sustainable Development Goals and moved from a 'nice-to-have' to a core aspect of business for their peers on how to practically approach these make real progress towards achieving them by 2030. many of our clients, explains Alyssa Auberger, Global Chair challenges. In addition to keynote addresses by Lise of the CG&R Group. As advisors, we can help our clients Kingo, CEO and Executive Director of the UNGC, and think about and address complex and interconnected Jeffrey Smith of Fordham University, two panel Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) issues, from discussions addressed (i) ESG considerations in the Chuman rights and ethical sourcing, to environmental Suite and with the Board of Directors and (ii) the management, to sustainability reporting and disclosure. evolving role of the General Counsel as sustainability and ESG issues become a corporate focus. The CG&R Industry Group has developed programming and thought leadership to assist our clients and to continue ▪ Members of the CG&R Industry Group regularly publish educating our own lawyers on key sustainability trends and blogs, client guidance and articles focused on ESG issues issues. affecting companies in the CG&R sector. Highlights include: ▪ We hosted a sustainability session for our internal CG&R Video: Alyssa Auberger, Global Chair, Consumer Goods and Retail Industry Group community with James Gomme, Director, Sustainable ▪ In February 2019, our CG&R Industry Group held a client Development Goals, World Business Council for Sustainable flagship event ( Addressing Sustainability Challenges in Development, who shared his expertise on key challenges and the CG&R Industry ) in collaboration with the UN Global opportunities to support the SDGs across the CG&R sector. Click here or press enter for the accessibility optimised version Climate Action Climate Action Climate change is one of the most pressing issues facing humanity. Limiting warming requires everyone to take urgent action to reduce their greenhouse gas emission and, as a large global business, we recognize our responsibility and potential impacts. We are taking steps to improve our environmental performance across our operations, including announcing our global carbon emissions reduction targets, raising awareness on climate change mitigation and use our market-leading expertise to help our clients achieve their own sustainability goals. ▪ The B-Green Program ▪ Helping our Clients ▪ Thought Leadership ▪ Supporting Climate Action Video: Why is Climate Action important to Baker McKenzie? B-Green Program In April 2016, we launched B-Green, our internal global In 2017, as part of the maturation of our B-Green Program environmental management program, designed to help and environmental management system, we began to our offices around the world to “green” their gather carbon emissions data in order to calculate our global operations. The program provides a road map for each carbon footprint. Our Sustainability Specialist completed an office to follow, along with tools and guidance to help them internal audit of 15 of our largest offices, accounting for just measure, evaluate and incrementally improve their under 54% of our carbon footprint by headcount. environmental performance. The program provides training, guidance, best practice materials, and a bespoke software We believe it is critical that we have confidence in our platform that allows each office to assess its performance, qualitative and quantitative data in order to (i) promote the record carbon emissions data, and set goals for improvement success of our B-Green program externally, including with year on year. clients, (ii) set our robust global carbon emissions reduction targets for the Firm, and reach our goal to begin reporting Each year, as part of the B-Green program, offices complete our carbon emissions publicly in FY20. a qualitative self-assessment of their environmental practices and set aspirational targets for improvement. Based on this self-assessment, offices receive a Star Rating score reflecting the maturity of their approach to environmental management. As part of fulfilling our carbon emissions reduction goals, offices are expected to increase their performance and annual B-Green ratings, with the support of the Sustainability team. Community Building We use internal newsletters, social media platforms and Earth Day podcasts internally to build an understanding of climate issues, a community of support and culture of ideaBaker McKenzie offices worldwide celebrated the official sharing, and to drive environmental performance among global 2019 Earth Day theme of Biodiversity by hosting local our 77 offices. screenings of the award-winning documentary, “Virunga”. The incredible true story of a group of courageous park rangers fighting to protect the Virunga National park in the Democratic Republic of Congo, one of the most biologically diverse areas on the planet. The documentary highlights key themes such as biodiversity protection and the importance Our Riyadh office enjoyed an Earth Day themed photo-booth for business to operate responsibly, and in ways that support rule of law, anti-corruption, and respect for human rights. Held throughout the month of April, screenings were supplemented with engaging activities such as panel discussions, lunch-and-learn events, and even themed art and photography competitions for staff and their children. Our Washington, DC office celebrated with Earth Day cookies The Greener Meetings Initiative Our Global Meetings and Events Team continues to Green measures in place for Firm meetings have ▪ Eliminating physical welcome gifts, in favor of making champion sustainability for the Firm, placing included: charitable donations locally, which reduces materials environmental considerations at the center of event consumption and transportation. planning. ▪ Eliminating meeting documents and copies, and providing meeting details electronically Carbon Offsets Our Greener Meetings Initiative, which launched in 2014, is ▪ Introducing a meeting app designed to reduce the environmental impact of Firm ▪ Reducing the use of office supplies As part of our wider environmental strategy and existing meetings. ▪ Reducing disposables and individual serving size efforts to lessen our environmental impact, we continue to packaging offset all business air travel associated with the Firm’s A range of measures guide the planning process, including ▪ Working with host hotels on improved temperature annual and regional Partners' meetings. Our offset green meetings checklists and action plans, which provide regulation of meeting space to maximize energy savings providers, With One Seed and Proyecto Mirador are verified best sustainability practices and help inform sustainable and efficiency and monitored by leading certification standards bodies and choices, and a questionnaire for venues to help meeting ▪ Reducing the number of on-site printer/copiers to save provide social benefits in addition to carbon abatement, planners assess their green credentials. energy and reduce waste, and formatting printers to such as reducing poverty, improving health, empowering print double sided women, job creation, or other benefits to local communities. On the ground, our Meetings team implements numerous ▪ Utilizing electronic signage boards provided by the hotel operational changes to help reduce, reuse and recycle . when possible Knowing how important it is to our people and our clients, the Global Meetings team places sustainability at the core of our planning and decisionmaking. It's important that we use our scale and influence to drive sustainability. We focus on working with vendors who share our commitments. Maureen Rogers, Director, Global Meetings & Events Helping our Clients The global response to climate change has been the opportunities posed by environmental law and regulation, and development and diffusion of environmentally friendly development of a wide array of policy and regulations, promote sustainable business practices through key technologies. which has a direct financial and economic impact on international partnerships. It is continually ranked as one of business. the best environmental teams across industry tables and We continue to participate in international climate change directories meetings. We regularly attend the Conference of the Parties Climate change law includes both the public international law (COP) to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate frameworks of the UNFCCC, Kyoto Protocol and Paris Our Climate Practice was the first in the world. Over the last Change (UNFCCC) and COP/MOP meetings. We also closely Agreement and private law domestic frameworks built around 20 years, we have advised governments, multi-lateral follow the development of negotiating issues arising out of them. Companies require legal counsel who offer expertise in development banks, project developers, investors, registries, those meetings. all these frameworks, understand how they interact with each non-government organizations and foundations on legal, other, and how they shape the carbon market. The law dealing policy, financing and transactional issues associated with all with climate change interacts directly with other areas of law aspects of climate change law and climate finance. We have Recognised as a global leader in the climate such as financial services, corporate governance, competition worked on pioneering deals, including setting up the first change sphere, with formidable expertise law, tax, projects and property law, among others. carbon contracts, drafting the first carbon funds, and advising spread across offices in the Americas, Australia on innovative environmental funds, green bonds, climate and the United Kingdom, as well as Africa and Our Environmental Practice comprises over 300 lawyers finance, philanthropic climate finance, investment in Asia. Handles a range of matters, advising around the world from different practice groups across our renewables and other climate solutions. governments, businesses and financial Firm to become climate change specialists; in addition to institutions on climate change mitigation having carbon market specialist lawyers, we also have Our Renewable Energy and Clean Technology Practice Global Chambers, 2019 specialist tax, corporate, energy, resources, projects, derivatives advises on structuring and financing a wide range of and financial services lawyers who understand climate change renewable energy projects including wind, solar, battery issues. We help to prepare companies for the risks and storage, biofuels and biogas, helping to promote the Thought Leadership We provide dedicated guidance on sustainability to ▪ In 2019, we held the Sustainable Finance Forum in ▪ In collaboration with Ndevr Environmental and AECOM help companies make informed decisions and guide Vienna, bringing together key experts on current we have prepared 'Climate Change Risk and policy makers on future legislation, as well produce a sustainability trends. The engaging discussions centered Opportunities: Decision-makers' Practical Guide to range of sought after reports and collaborate with on topics such as the EU's action plan on sustainable Disclosure', a guide to navigating climate risks and clients on industry best practice guides. finance, regulatory requirements for financial opportunities; the legal obligations around disclosure institutions, the challenges facing the green bonds and management of those risks; and practical ▪ Our Global Real Estate Group has produced the Global market, trends in impact investing, and the role of information about how to meet these obligations. Sustainable Buildings Index, comparing sustainable international financial institutions and private finance in policies, schemes, and practices in 25 countries and driving sustainable infrastructure investment. ▪ To support practical implementation of the Climateidentify emerging trends in nine key areas of related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)'s recommendations, sustainability, and the EcoOccupy Tool, a sustainable tool ▪ We also hosted the 28th annual Baker McKenzie we co-produced a series of market reviews together with to provide corporate real estate occupiers with International Environmental Law Conference in the Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI). Our sustainable real estate decision making insight and Chicago, Illinois. Discussion topics included policies and publication, Relevance of recommendations of the support. The interactive tool provides guidance in trends, climate change and environmental due diligence Task Force on Climate-related Disclosures in achieving sustainable objectives in 19 jurisdictions, across and a panel on “Understanding the Scope of the Circular particular jurisdictions, examines how the TCFD's three focus areas for easier management: Economy Dilemma – The Global Plastics Challenge”. The voluntary recommendations integrate into existing ▪ Operational and Environmental Building Efficiency discussion provided a high-level overview of circular material risk disclosure regulation and soft law in specific ▪ Occupant Comfort and Wellbeing economy initiatives, and then focused more closely on markets, and how investors and companies in those ▪ Reputation of Organization the plastics situation, including considering existing markets can apply them. plastics regulations and how clients can adopt and develop global and localized strategies for compliance. ▪ We have prepared Green Hedging: A Guide to Structuring Corporate Renewable PPAs with support from WWF Australia and the New South Wales Office on Supporting Climate Action Environment and Heritage. Aimed at decision makers, the report outlines the fundamentals of corporate PPAs and unpacks the types of structures available in the We regularly provide pro bono assistance to: Additionally, this year: Australian market. It also considers both the opportunities these arrangements can offer, as well as ▪ The Nature Conservancy to support their global Sensing Clues current challenges in bringing them to fruition. operations with guidance on IP, corporate, environmental, employment and other matters in Our Amsterdam office has been working closely with ▪ We contributed to Global 250 Greenhouse Gas countries ranging across the continents. Sensing Clues, a wildlife preservation foundation, aimed Emitters: A New Business Logic, published by ▪ The World Resources Institute (WRI) on legal issues and at developing technology, solutions, and expertise to Thomson Reuters in collaboration with CDP. The report strategies relating to their major work streams, such as promote the protection and safeguarding of nature and looks at best practices across the economy and aims to forestry and water. We also provide regular advice on nature conservation areas, plants and animals. demonstrate the relationships between de-carbonization global corporate and operational issues ranging from and long-term financial performance. This information is setting up offices in new countries to IP, contracts, Last year, Sensing Clues launched their app, Wildlife critical to investors and policymakers, alongside the technology agreements and data privacy. This year, we Intelligence. Built on innovative technologies, and designed demands for increased transparency and accurate and also supported WRI in creating a general counsel position to provide actionable and timely information about threats comparable performance metrics. and the hiring of their first general counsel. to nature, the app is designed to help organizations across ▪ The National Parks Conservation Association, including in the world to preserve nature and protect endangered species relation to legal challenges. by turning observations of rangers, guides, researchers, and ▪ The Alliance for the Great Lakes with regard to the even tourists, into shared situational awareness; learning operation and requirements of the Great Lakes Compact, where and when threats to nature can be expected; and to including in connection with proposals to remove water creating tactical plans and actions to mitigate these risks. The from the lakes and the processes for reviewing such Firm has been providing on-going tax and legal advice on a proposals. pro bono basis. Click here or press enter for the accessibility optimised version Economic & Governance Economic & Governance Good governance is a cornerstone of good business. We are committed to promoting transparency, ethical behavior, and accountability both within our operations, and externally through our influence and counsel. We consider the rule of law to be fundamental. We also believe that business can play a vital role in advancing peaceful, inclusive societies and effective and accountable institutions at all levels. Our commitment to the rule of law is also supported extensively by our pro bono efforts and our partnerships, such as our patronage of the United Nations Global Compact’s Action Platform on Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions. This section of the report refers to our commitments to the following Principle of the UN Global Compact: Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Guiding Principles The Baker McKenzie Code of Business Conduct is intended to help everyone at Baker McKenzie, partners and employees alike, comply with all applicable laws, rules and regulations as well as the Firm’s policies and standards. Because no code can address every situation, we developed these Guiding Principles as touchstones for decisions and behavior across our Firm. Our Code of Business Conduct applies to everyone working at Baker McKenzie and affiliated entities. We expect those with whom we do business, including suppliers and vendors, to honor these principles. Click here or press enter for the accessibility optimised version Peace, Justice & Strong Institutions Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions Effective, accountable and transparent institutions are We are proud co-patrons of the UNGC Action Platform foundational to Goal 16. Baker McKenzie is committed on Goal 16. The Action Platform is a two-year program to making the right choices and doing the right things, that brings together business, governments, civil society within the law and according to our Code of Conduct, and UN agencies to combine efforts towards achieving a which sets out the highest standards of legal, ethical peaceful and inclusive society for sustainable and professional behavior. development, the provision of justice for all, and effective and accountable institutions at all levels. From We have recently supplemented this with our Point One now until 2020, the Action Platform will provide a forum commitment for a respectful, safe and inclusive working for dialogue that results in action towards improving environment. Our commitment to the rule of law is also accountability, integrity and transparency within supported extensively by our pro bono efforts, which are businesses and the countries in which they operate. The outlined in this chapter and throughout this report. As Action Platform will provide global standards for reflected in the results of our Materiality Assessment, ethics, understanding, implementing and reporting on business data security and privacy, and corporate governance are engagement in advancing peace, justice and strong front of mind for our stakeholders. institutions. It will explore global trends related to Goal 16 that require responsible advocacy, agenda setting and ▪ Code of Conduct commitment to action by businesses, governments and ▪ Ehtisphere civil society alike. ▪ Promoting Access to Justice Watch Global Chair Milton Cheng at the UN SDG Media Zone at Davos 2019. Code of Conduct Our Code of Conduct sets out the behavior we expect from permissible, anonymously, by phone or through a dedicated and we also reference non-ISO frameworks when those our employees in relation to issues such as compliance web portal, EthicsPoint. frameworks provide improved guidance or specificity, such with anti-corruption laws, dealing with sanctions, money as NIST, the Center for Information Security (CIS), OWASP, laundering prevention, and avoiding conflicts of interest, We recognize that fulfilling our commitments and and SANS. Our client data is maintained in secure, controlled among other topics. protecting one of our most valuable assets our reputation environments that meet internal guidelines for physical requires the participation of everyone in every role across security and access control protections. Our Code spells out our expectations in specific areas and the Firm. Our clients have a right to know what we stand provides principles to guide our behavior when the rules are not for and how we ensure compliance in a complex and Furthermore, our security team provides risk assessments clear or there are no rules. It also reflects our commitment as a changing world. for all internal and external applications used by the Firm signatory to the UN Global Compact to align our policies and and a dedicated Security Operations Center is maintained operations with the Compact's Ten Principles in the areas of Data privacy and Security for operational support and incident detection and human rights, fair labor, the environment and anti-corruption. response. Among other measures, our systems are protected We recognize our responsibility to our clients to be against viruses and other malicious software at multiple All of our personnel undergoes mandatory and regular training good stewards of their data, and take a robust, risk levels using a defense-in-depth approach. We also recognize with respect to our Code of Business Conduct, including management approach for deploying, managing, and that an informed user community is critical, and so we have training on anti-corruption law. It is required reading for every securing the Firm's Information Technology invested in a robust security awareness training program, partner and employee worldwide. infrastructure to promote the security, confidentiality, which will provide all of our people with the information and integrity of information, services, and systems. and tools necessary to prevent data privacy breaches or Our Code of Business Conduct Hotline provides an additional cybersecurity concerns. tool to help ensure that everyone complies with the Code. Our information security management system has achieved The Hotline allows anyone in the Firm to ask questions, seek ISO 27001:2013 certification (the internationally recognized guidance or report concerns confidentially and, where standard for managing risks to the security of information) Ethisphere We are a proud global partner of The Ethisphere Magazine, engage in meaningful dialogue at various clientHighlights from the 2019 Global Institute, the international leader in defining and facing roundtables around the globe and participate in Ethics Summit advancing the standards of ethical business practices global conferences including The Global Ethics Summit a that fuel corporate character, marketplace trust and flagship event where CEOs, Board Members, Chief Legal business success. Officers/General Counsels, Chief Ethics and Compliance Officers, as well as other business influencers representing a Ethisphere has deep expertise in measuring and defining diverse set of experiences, gather to share best practices in core ethics standards using data-driven insights that help building ethical businesses and continuously improving companies enhance corporate character. Ethisphere corporate behavior. recognizes superior achievement through its World’s Most Ethical Companies recognition program, provides a We also had the honor of serving on the 2019 Global Ethics Video: Baker McKenzie's Bob Kent on Connected Compliance community of industry experts with the Business Ethics Summit Steering Committee, which gathered a variety of Leadership Alliance (BELA) and showcases trends and best experts who have modelled an earnest commitment to raise practices in ethics with Ethisphere Magazine. Our the bar for global integrity. longstanding partnership has afforded us opportunities to collaborate on thought leadership and articles in Ethisphere Video: Reagan Demas Moderating a Panel on Supply Chain Monitoring Promoting Access to Justice through Pro Bono and Advocacy Access to justice is a basic human right and a key tenet of Goal 16. We have a responsibility to increase access to justice worldwide and promote the rule of law. Our global network gives us the opportunity to do this, and reach vulnerable pockets of society. Through our pro bono work, Baker McKenzie engages teams of problem-solvers on the most compelling social justice challenges around the globe where our teams, both inside our Firm and from our corporate colleagues, can make an impact. Our pro bono mission is to deliver first class legal services to the Video: Angela Vigil, Partner, Director of Pro Bono Practice underserved and disadvantaged at the local, national and international level. To achieve this mission, we regularly partner with in house “Baker McKenzie is so deserving of this award. Through our partnership with the firm, the Youth in legal teams to expand our collective reach. Our teams work Out-of-Home Care Project has made systems of care safer and more affirming for some of our on behalf of a variety of clients, including engaging in direct community’s most vulnerable.” representation, impact litigation, policy and advocacy work, M. Currey Cook, Lambda Legal Counsel and Youth in Out-of-Home Care Project Director. building new legal resources and addressing complex legal questions for the world’s leading non-profits, public policy institutions, and international NGOs. Homeless Youth Handbook One of the biggest obstacles homeless youth face is a lack of understanding of the law and the resources available to them. In addition, as few available resources speak plainly about the rights of street-connected, homeless, or vulnerable youth many non-legal professionals who are committed to helping homeless youth also lack information about their legal rights. We continue to collaborate with like-minded client teams and homeless charities across the United States to roll out the Homeless Youth Handbook. Together, we have crafted an invaluable resource for not only youth but also social workers, Video: Homeless Youth Handbook shelter staff, school personnel, medical personnel, law enforcement and anyone else willing to help them access the information they need. Each handbook was created based on To date we have published handbooks in: ▪ Texas, working with Weatherford and Appleseed state specific laws and covers critical topics such as education, ▪ Washington, working with Starbucks and Columbia Legal healthcare, housing, parenting and consumer credit issues and is ▪ Florida, working with The Walt Disney Company and Services available online and in print form in schools, libraries, shelters Florida Children's First ▪ Washington DC, working with The Walt Disney Company and public agencies. ▪ Illinois, working with United Airlines and Chicago and National Law Center on Homelessness and Poverty Coalition for the Homeless ▪ California, working with Google, Bay Area Legal Aid and In 2019 we partnered with Google, Bay Area Legal Aid and ▪ Minnesota, working with Ecolab and Southern Minnesota Tipping Point Community Tipping Point Community to roll out the California Homeless Regional Legal Services Coming soon: Indiana and New Jersey Youth Handbook. ▪ New York, working with Mondelez and The Door Promoting Access to Justice Around the World Innovating Justice Forum despite political instability at the national level and included prosecutors and judges in each room. Participants practiced Colleagues in our Johannesburg office spoke to an audience preparing a legal memorandum analyzing crimes related to key trial advocacy skills that would help lawyers prepare a of tech experts, entrepreneurs, funders and innovators at the abduction of children under international criminal law case to try it or to resolve it through a plea bargain and with the launch of the Hague Institute for Innovation of Law for PILPG's clients in South Sudan and analyzing the legal children in the justice system. (HiiL) Innovating Justice Challenge 2019 in June 2019. The rights of children born to foreign fighters in Middle East Challenge targeted those working on innovative solutions countries. On the Cutting Edge of AI Law that will improve access and justice for millions of people in Teams across our Firm conducted legal research and analysis Southern Africa. Qualifying innovators stood a chance to Nigeria: Rule of Law in Action to address cutting edge questions regarding the legal receive specialized business development training, exposure Together with the National Institute for Trial Advocacy implications of artificial intelligence in toys for the World at a global level, mentorship and up to ZAR 250 000 in debt (NITA) and Jones Day, we were proud to co-host the Rule of Economic Forum. These research findings will lay the and equity-free grant money from one of the world’s law in Action seminars, in Lagos, Nigeria. The seminars foundation for laws and policies on a global scale. leading proponents of justice innovations. focused on two key areas in the Nigerian criminal justice system: Children's Virtual Clinic Advancing Rule of Law on a Global Scale with Public Baker Legal Help is a pilot program offering free access to International Law and Policy Group (PILPG). ▪ plea bargaining for all accuse din the criminal justice legal advice for youth. Done entirely by video conference, Multiple teams across the Firm supported our long time system the Virtual Legal Clinic allows youth to connect with public interest partner, Public International Law and Policy ▪ children as witnesses, victims and client in the criminal volunteer attorneys for guidance on issues such as Group, in Yemen, South Sudan, and Libya to advance the justice system accommodation, eviction, discrimination, identity theft, Rule of Law on a Global Scale. Our work supports judges, local and state benefits, disability and health benefits, and lawyers, and prosecutors to engage in conversations on Over the 5 days, more than 160 attorneys were trained in getting in to foster care. Youth can visit drop-in centers to transitional justice needs at a local and community level to the program through demonstrations, lectures and activities connect to the clinics, or access them independently. identify areas in which transitional justice may proceed such as faculty led working groups of 8 defenders, World Legal Summit reference when assisting victims of violence. The legal Legal Atlas for Street Youth Colleagues in our Johannesburg office attended the World guides will address issues around physical violence, human In 2019 the Legal Atlas for Street Youth was launched. The Legal Summit (WLS) in Cape Town in August 2019, aimed at trafficking, sexual violence, child marriage, child neglect, and Atlas is an online database documenting street child law convening disparate jurisdictions together in collaboration psychological abuse. Guides on child trafficking and physical across the globe. The tool will help countries improve their around building a better understanding of what is violence have been published to date, with a third standards, policies, and practices concerning child rights, in happening with technology regulation and governance installment covering sexual violence to follow. keeping with the UN General Comment on Children in Street worldwide. Our people participated in panel discussions on Situations, which explains what countries should do in order Identity & Governance and Cyber Security & Personal Data at 30th Anniversary of Convention on the Rights of the to protect the rights of street children. Committing to the Summit. Participants tackled tough questions about Child equality in law is one of the four steps to equality for street what could be done at the regulatory level to ensure new 2019 marked the 30th anniversary of the Convention on the children. By putting legal knowledge in the hands of technologies strengthened citizen rights and facilitated fair Rights of the Child. Following the UN anniversary event in advocates, policymakers, the media and the public, we can access to justice, and that they improved business Geneva, Baker McKenzie hosted two panels of child empower people to change the law and make a real opportunities for all, not just the elite few. The August WLS advocate leaders, academics and experts in partnership with difference to street children’s lives. The Street Youth Atlas summit was the first of a two-part initiative that took place the Juvenile Justice Initiative and the Terre des hommes was created by the Consortium for Street Children (CSC) in simultaneously in 30 cities and 20 countries. Foundation. The first panel was convened at the Baker collaboration with Baker McKenzie and with the assistance McKenzie office in Geneva, where the moderated discussion of hundreds of pro bono lawyers from our clients' corporate End Violence against Children raised creative thoughts about what is needed to fully in-house legal teams worldwide. Those involved have Lawyers from our offices in Australia, China, Hong Kong, implement the aspirations of the Convention. The second examined state obligations toward street children under the Japan, Taiwan, Thailand and Vietnam, as well as member panel was convened at the Baker McKenzie office in Convention on the Rights of the Child and the realities of firms in Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines and Singapore, Washington, DC, and focused on the implications of the street children’s lives, in order to assist those advocating for continue to collaborate with local corporate clients including Convention for the United States, where it has not been child rights around the world. Partners involved in its Citi and MSD, and partner firms, such as Khaitan & Co in ratified. A recording of each session can be found here. development include: 3M, Abbvie, Amazon, Astellas, Cargill, India, to support World Vision’s End Violence Against CNH, Google, HP Inc., JPMC, Merck, Mondelez, Salesforce, Children Program which is now moving into its third year. and Starbucks Together, we are developing a series of six easy-to-use legal guides for local communities and first responders to 2019 Children's Rights Summit Refugee and Asylum Seeker Support London Pro Bono Access to Justice Program In December, we hosted the 6th Annual Children's Rights Throughout 2019 our Australian colleagues, some of whom Launched in 2019, this program has covered three new endSummit in partnership with Apple, Hewlett Packard are now also registered migration agents, worked on various to-end legal projects to date, with a fourth starting soon. Enterprise, Facebook, Google and Intel. Convening at projects to help support refugees and asylum seekers, Over 70 lawyers have been trained to take part in these Facebook HQ in Silicon Valley, the summit aimed to reincluding: projects, ranging from trainees to partners, and the Firm has imagine the way we provide access to justice for children taken on 26 cases to date. Each project is fully supervised by and youth. The agenda included key note speeches by ▪ Assisting with Medevac evacuation applications on an external lawyer at the partner charity, and lawyers work renowned advocates and youth leaders; experiential behalf of seriously ill refugees in regional processing in pairs to assist with cases from start to finish. The projects learning simulations, wherein participants explored what it countries Papa New Guinea and Nauru, to receive medical ensure vulnerable individuals can enforce their rights and is like to be a young person involved with the justice system assessment and treatment in Australia. claim access to justice. and how community lawyering and pro bono can make a ▪ Representing asylum seekers in litigation in the federal difference; and Juvenile Justice 'Kitchens', wherein court system, who are seeking judicial review of negative Current projects include: professionals with diverse experiences came together to protection visa decisions by the Department of Home design solutions, share ideas, and chart out next steps. Affairs. ▪ The Children’s Nationality Project, helping children ▪ Accompanying asylum seekers to the Department of exercise their rights to UK citizenship, in partnership with National Enquiry into Sexual Harassment in Australian Home Affairs to assist during their protection visa Coram Children’s Legal Centre. Workplaces application interviews with the Department officer. Our ▪ The Adult Care Project, challenging inappropriate local Our Australian offices assisted the Australian Human Rights work includes making oral submissions during the authority care packages, in partnership with Mencap. Commission (AHRC) with its National Enquiry into sexual interview and preparing written submissions afterwards. ▪ The Welfare Benefits Project, representing individuals harassment in Australian workplaces. Together with a number ▪ Working with the Refugee Advice & Casework Service who wish to challenge welfare benefit refusals, in of our European offices, we provided detailed analyses of laws (RACS) to set up a statement-taking clinic for vulnerable partnership with LawWorks. relating to sexual harassment in the workplace across a women seeking asylum on the basis of gendered violence number of Australian and European jurisdictions including ▪ Assisting asylum seekers through a volunteer clinic at Germany, Spain, Sweden, Russia. Hungary, Netherlands, Refugee Legal in Melbourne. Our work includes England and Wales, in order to make recommendations to statement taking, submission writing and research. address sexual harassment in Australian workplaces. Click here or press enter for the accessibility optimised version Partnerships for the Goals Partnerships for the Goals We believe that business must play an active role in addressing some of the biggest issues facings the world. We are proud to collaborate with like-minded clients, as well as non-governmental and civil society organizations to impact positive change on a global scale. In addition to our pro bono and community service efforts, ▪ Promoting Responsible Business we actively participate in leading sustainability ▪ Antitrust and Sustainability: Breaching the Divide organizations such as the World Business Council for ▪ The Baker McKenzie Whitespace Collab Sustainable Development. ▪ Sponsorships and Scholarships We regularly take part in international meetings including the United Nations General Assembly Week, the World Economic Forum Annual Meeting at Davos, Conference of the Parties (COP) to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC), among others. Promoting Responsible Business As a Firm we enjoy collaborative and productive Sustainable Development (WBCSD) with the development of ▪ The Future of the Corporation relationships with some of the most influential 'Modernizing Governance: ESG challenges and organizations around the world. recommendations for corporate directors' report, which We have had the opportunity to lead on the World Economic aims to better understand the current state of play and Forum's Future of the Corporation study, aimed at World Business Council for Sustainable potential solutions by: understanding how changes in macroeconomics, financial Development (WBCSD) markets and technology shape how businesses are governed ▪ examining the current governance approach relating to and structured in the 4IR. The study is informed by In 2017, we became the first law firm to join the WBCSD. We sustainability in 12 jurisdictions; and interviews and roundtables held with Chairs and Boards of serve as legal advisors in the development of multiple public and private companies and investors, many of whom projects and work streams that the Council and its corporate ▪ interviewing board members representing more than 40 are clients, as well as partners at Baker McKenzie. The final members are pursuing. companies to understand their perspectives on report aims to roadmap for corporations these shifts that sustainability governance are systemically impacting the business world. ▪ Modernizing Governance World Economic Forum (WEF) In today’s complex and uncertain world, focusing on nearterm shareholder value alone is no longer enough to ensure We have been a partner of the World Economic Forum (WEF) long-term business success. Sustained value creation for nine years and in 2017, we became a founding member of requires companies to manage business performance to the Centre for the Fourth Industrial Revolution (C4IR). ensure that sustainability matters that affect business value Through our partnership with the WEF and C4IR, we work are addressed. with the foremost business, political and cultural leaders to shape global, regional and industry agendas. Some of our Baker McKenzie at Davos 2020 We are proud to have assisted the World Business Council for flagship projects include: Antitrust and Sustainability: Breaching the Divide Sustainability is likely to be a major theme in antitrust To meet sustainability goals, companies may need to work The timing is, however, right to try to address these for 2020. Current antitrust laws lack certainty for with their competitors. This enables them to bring about shortcomings as the European Commission is undertaking a companies that aim to achieve sustainability objectives, change on a scale which would simply not be possible once in a decade review of guidelines applying in this area. hampering industry initiatives that are in the consumer individually. Joint efforts also avoid the ‘first mover We are currently establishing a 'Sustainability Alliance', interest and which even help governments avoid the disadvantage’ which can arise if a company could not switch comprising clients and other leading companies, drawn from need for cumbersome regulation. to, say, more environmentally-friendly (but costly) products various sectors. The aim is to put forward arguments and or processes without losing market share. evidence which shows that competition law is needlessly Luis Gomez, Chair of our EMEA Antitrust Practice, and interfering with initiatives which are in the consumer antitrust lawyer Grant Murray are establishing a Unfortunately, antitrust law (or the perception of it) can be interest and which even help governments avoid the need 'Sustainability Alliance' comprising clients and other an obstacle here. While sector-wide initiatives focussing on for cumbersome regulations. leading companies drawn from various sectors, to bridge more sustainably-produced goods may lead to huge the gap between competition law and collaborative environmental benefits, antitrust authorities may be As many of our clients are working to make a positive sustainable solutions. concerned that these joint efforts reduce choice for impact on the environment, navigating legal obstacles in consumers or even increase downstream prices. order to help them achieve their sustainability goals is one way our Firm can help ensure a better world for the next Despite laudable objectives, it is not always possible to generation. reassure companies that sustainability arrangements are free of antitrust risk. For example, EU antitrust rules adopt a very strict approach to competitor contacts and are, at best, unclear when it comes to the question of when environmental benefits can be taken into consideration. The Baker McKenzie Whitespace Collab Collaboration for the Age of Hypercomplexity private sector opportunities of the transition to a lowThe Firm established the Collab with legal and business In June 2017 Baker McKenzie's Whitespace Legal Collab — carbon economy. These discussions helped shape the Expert innovation in mind. And as business resilience and also known as the Collab — launched with the purpose of Panel's 2019 report. sustainability become a central issue for global business, convening innovators from academic, business, technology international organizations and governments around the and legal domains, to address world’s most complex Last year, the Collab also prototyped an iOS mobile app in world, the Collab and its partners continue to facilitate problems—from tech acceleration to climate change. The collaboration with our client Visa Europe and The collaborative, leading-edge solutions to some of the biggest concept of collab comes from our belief that overcoming Foundation Lab, a San Francisco-based legal services design challenges facing the world. tough problems or grand challenges occurs most often consultancy. The Horizon Scanning mobile app tracks data when people with diverse knowledge and experience work privacy and regulatory changes across 100 jurisdictions, and together. Baker McKenzie partner and Collab co-founder won recognition from the FT Innovative Lawyers Europe Theo Ling said at the time. Awards 2018. Sustainability focus The Collab uses foresight and scenarios expertise to help our A first for a global law firm, the Collab has partnered with a clients find fresh ways to address global issues that concern wide variety of like-minded organizations on topics such as them, and works to foster collaboration and innovative ethics, artificial intelligence and the business and societal problem-solving throughout the business and legal fields. impacts of climate change. For example, the Collab brought together lawyers and other professionals to practice addressing real-world legal Recently, the Collab worked closely with Canada’s Expert innovation challenges with a collaborative mindset and Panel on Sustainable Finance, sharing in-depth commentary cutting-edge learning initiatives. Dubbed the Seeding New and recommendations on the physical and transitional risks, Career Paths Workshop, the initiative was shortlisted in the as well as potential policy, legislative, institutional, and 2019 FT Innovative Lawyers North America Awards. Sponsorships and Scholarships The 2018 -2019 Baker McKenzie Scholarship was awarded At Columbia Law School, where she is a Human Rights LL.M. to Bamisope Adeyanju, an economic and social rights fellow, Adeyanju is a student in the Human Rights Clinic, Rachel Lieb advocate who led an effort to uncover the which works with civil society organizations and individuals misappropriation of loan refunds in Nigeria. around the world to advance rights and justice. Along with Merck & Co., we are co-sponsoring Equal The scholarship, established in June 2015, awards USD 50,000 Justice Works Fellow Rachel Lieb. Rachel is working with to an LLM student who demonstrates academic success and the New York Legal Assistance Group providing legal financial need. Priority for the scholarship is given to assistance to domestic violence survivors in New York City international students who have overcome barriers to achieve who wish to appeal adverse decisions in Family or Supreme in the field of law, particularly those raised or educated in Court. There were previously no attorneys in New York emerging nations. Before beginning her LL.M. studies at dedicated to bringing domestic violence appeals on behalf Columbia Law School, Adeyanju was an attorney at the Socioof poor women and their children. So far, Rachel has: Economic Rights and Accountability Project (SERAP), a leading human rights organization in Lagos, Nigeria. ▪ Provided counsel to 50 individuals on their divorce, custody, and child support rights as part of NYLAG’s At Adekunle Ajasin University, where she earned an intake line and the Mobile Legal Health Clinic in Brooklyn; undergraduate degree in law, Adeyanju prioritized public ▪ Provided full representation to an additional 37 service projects. She advocated for the rights of people who individuals, helping them obtain orders of protection, have spent years in pre-trial detention and served as custody of their children, child support, and divorces in Bamisope (center) pictured with our pro bono committee and fellow president of the Green Law Society, raising awareness of and New York Family and Supreme Courts; Columbia Law School alumni at our New York office securing solutions for environmental issues in local ▪ Successfully defended 3 appeals, allowing clients to communities. retain their orders of protection. Click here or press enter for the accessibility optimised version Awards and Accolades Awards and Accolades 2019 Ranked among top 5 large US law firms in Law360's 2019 Named Outstanding Firm for Furthering Diversity and With The Walt Disney Company, received the Stewart B. Best Law Firms for Female Attorneys. Inclusion in Latin America at the 2019 Chambers Diversity & McKinney Award for commitment to preventing and Inclusion Awards: Latin America. ending homelessness from the National Law Center on 2019 Best Law Firms for Women and named to the Homelessness & Poverty. inaugural Hall of Fame by Working Mother magazine Named among Stonewall's Top Global Employers for recognizing the small number of firms that have been on LGBT+ inclusion in 2019 – one of only 14 companies Toronto Partner Kevin Coon Start recognized by Start the list for ten years or more. worldwide. Proud, as a 2019 Leader To Be Proud Of Award Honored with the 2019 Lambda Legal Law Firm Recognized with six awards at the 2019 Euromoney Asia Leading Light Award: Mexico and Peru Leadership Award for commitment to addressing the legal Women in Business Law Awards. needs of homeless youth. Trust Law Collaboration Award with Nokia for work on Awarded one of 140 Workplace Gender Equality Agency the rights of refugees Received a perfect score on the Human Rights Campaign Employer of Choice for Gender Equality citation in Foundation Corporate Equality Index for the tenth Australia. Best Law Firm in the Voluntary Carbon Market 2019 by consecutive year and Best Place to Work in the US for Environmental Finance LGBT+ equality. Awarded the 2019 Australian Workplace Equality Index Silver Employer citation in the Pride in Diversity. Climate Change Firm of the Year by Who's Who Legal Received a perfect score on the Human Rights Campaign Awards Foundation 2019 Equidad MX Index recognizing leading Awarded bronze status in the inaugural South African employers in LGBT+ inclusion in Mexico. Workplace Equality Index the best rated law firm in Only Band 1 ranked Firm for Climate Change by Chambers South Africa for inclusion efforts. Global 2019 Recognized in 2019 as a Top 5 Employer in the UK for social mobility in the Social Mobility Employer Index. Click here or press enter for the accessibility optimised version Thank you for reading Communication on Progress Report 2020 Baker McKenzie:Privacy and Cookies Cookies Turtl:[ 1Cookies ] |[ 1Terms ] Privacy | Privacy [1] [2] POWERED BY
