COP 2019 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS UN GLOBAL COMPACT Indhold Our Commitment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 Our vision: Improving life for people and planet . . . . . . . . 6 How we work as Architects . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9 How we work with the SDG’s . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10 Environmental Impact of Construction Materials . . . . . . 14 Climate Adaptation of Urban Environments . . . . . . . . . . 17 User Needs and Well-being . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18 Changing Societal Demands . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21 Labour . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22 Equality and Diversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25 Human Rights . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26 Anti-corruption . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29 Contact . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30 3 Our Commitment With nearly 100 years of award-winning architecture inspired by our Nordic values, C.F. Møller Architects place social, economic and environmental sustainability at the heart of our work. At C.F. Møller, we view sustainability as a holistic practice, fully integrated into our Nordic architectural values. Klavs Hyttel We see architecture as a creative process where we interpret our clients’ aims to create buildings that work at functional, technical and aesthetical levels, whilst also achieving high sustainability Klaus Toustrup goals. Our unique cross-disciplinary design approach integrates urban planning, landscape, architecture and industrial design, and this Lone Bendorff creates societal and economic value for our clients and for society at large. With this 2019 Communication on Progress, C.F. Møller Architects Mads Mandrup again express their continued support for the UN Global Compact. This 2019 Communication on Progress also contains C.F. Møller’s documentation of Corporate Social Responsibility and Gender Julian Weyer Equality as required by the Danish Financial Statements Act (Årsregnskabsloven), §99a and §99b. The UN Global Compact’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Michael Kruse focus global efforts on 17 widely acknowledged and pressing issues. By upholding recognized principles on the environment, climate change, labour, human rights and anti-corruption, businesses can use the Sustainable Development Goals to make an essential contribution to sustainable development, and document their Lone Wiggers progress in achieving the goals. In this 2019 Communication on Progress, we use the eight Sustainable Development Goals, that are most relevant to our business, to Mårten Leringe document our commitment and work with the UN Global Compact and Corporate Social Responsibility. The Board of Directors of C.F. Møller A/S Christian Dahle 4 5 Our vision: Improving life for people and planet We are one of Scandinavia’s leading independent architectural firms, with almost 100 years of award-winning work in the Nordic region and worldwide. Our vision is to Improve life for people and planet. Every day we create architectural quality based on innovation, experience and our Nordic values. This assures sustainable and aesthetic solutions with lasting value for clients, occupants and society. Our design solutions are methodically and holistically created following a rigorous analysis of the local context. We look to set new global standards by fostering a design approach, which uniquely integrates urban planning, landscape, architecture, industrial design and the design of specific building components. We regard environmental concerns, resource consciousness, healthy project finances, social responsibility and good craftsmanship as essential elements of our work. 6 7 Our business model Primary drivers Major actors as part of and activities and co-operation How we work as the value chain partners Architects Where demand for Economic, societal Private & public As consulting architects, C.F. Møller’s business our services comes and political drivers sector clients model is closely linked to the extended value from chain of the construction sector. As architects, we play a central role in creating societal and economic value for our clients and for society at large. Our value creation We interpret our Other consultants The buildings and and design work clients wishes landscapes We interpret our clients aims, and create architectural solutions as architects and create value Planning & building we design today... with lasting functional, technical and aesthetic qualities that meet today’s needs, whilst also contributing to the long term cultural through our regulation quality of the built environment. architecture A central aspect of our work as architects relates to fact that the buildings and landscapes we design now will have longlasting impacts in the future because of their long lifespan: • Environmentally, where buildings are responsible for the consumption of large amounts of resources and energy throughout How our architecture Construction, Contractors & their lifespan. is produced commissioning & sub-contractors • Socially, as people spend up to 90% of their time indoors, and handover Materials buildings’ functional, experiential and wellbeing qualities are production important. • Culturally, where buildings become part of the built environment’s cultural quality and begin to take on a larger societal How our architecture Our buildings’ Users, residents, ..... have value over time. is experienced, used functionality, quality administrators & longlasting and transformed and transformation owners impacts into • Economically, where the high costs of construction need to be held up against how future annual running costs can be over time the future minimised. Creation of cultural & societal value What happens Dismantling and Demolition sector at the end of reuse of materials the lifespan Circular economy 8 9 Environmental Impact C.F. Møller will actively work to reduce the How we of Construction environmental impact from the materials used in work with ENVIRONMENT & Materials the buildings we design the SDG’s CLIMATE Climate Adaptation of C.F. Møller will work with climate adaptation, so Urban Environments that our buildings and landscapes are able to deal with future climate change User Needs C.F. Møller will work to create architecture where and Well-being inspiring, functional and healthy environments SOCIETY & give a sense of delight and well-being for users. BUILDING USERS Changing Societal C.F. Møller will work proactively in integrating Demands changing client, regulatory and societal demands into our architectural work. Labour C.F. Møller has a highly qualified and dedicated workforce, and will continue to create an attractive workplace for all employees. LABOUR & EQUALITY Equality and Diversity C.F. Møller will continue working to increase the share of women throughout the organisation. Human Rights C.F. Møller will work to improve human rights in relation to building design, material production HUMAN RIGHTS & and building construction. ANTI-CORRUPTION Anti-corruption C.F. Møller has a zero tolerance policy in relation to corruption and fraud, and actively contributes to combating corruption in all of its forms. 10 11 THE HEART, IKAST ‘The Heart’ is a new meeting place for culture, communication and social sustainability. ‘The Heart’ combines education, community and recreational pursuits in new ways, so that social relations between various groups can be formed and maintained. Environmental Impact of Construction Materials For new buildings, the environmental impact related to materials is now larger than that from space heating over the lifespan of the building. ISSUES & RISKS The successful focus on reducing the operational energy demand of new buildings has had unexpected consequences. Numerous European studies show that for new buildings, the environmental impact from construction materials over the complete life cycle of the building, including material consumption for maintenance, is larger than the environmental impact from space heating. With increasing demands to the environmental impact of materials in the markets we operate in, C.F. Møller must respond proactively. POLICIES C.F. Møller will actively work to reduce the environmental impact from the materials used in the buildings we design. RESULTS FOR 2019 • Our first building of cross-laminated timber, the Kajstaden Tower apartments in Västerås, Sweden, was completed in 2019. • We are major participants in the new EU supported R&D project, Build in Wood, which runs from 2019-2023. • We have worked to promote timber buildings and remove regulative barriers to the greater use of timber in Denmark. • We have developed a prototype tool to carry out Life Cycle Analysis (LCA) estimations early in the design process. ACTIVITIES FOR 2020 • We will continue our innovative work with multi-storey timber buildings with cross-laminated timber (CLT) and laminated veneer lumber (LVL). KAJSTADEN TOWER, VÅSTERÅS • We will continue the development of LCA tools as part of our This new 9 storey timber apartment building is Sweden’s digital design workflow, so that we can assess environmental tallest timber building, and is constructed entirely of massive impact from early in the design process. timber. The loadbearing walls, floors, beams, balconies and elevator shaft are all built with cross-laminated timber. 14 15 Climate adaptation of Urban Environments Our climate is already changing, so the buildings and landscapes we design today need to be able to deal with changing climatic conditions in the near and distant future. ISSUES & RISKS The effects of higher greenhouse gas concentrations in the atmosphere mean our climate is already changing. New buildings and landscapes therefore need to be able to cope with changing climatic conditions, where extremes in rainfall, drought and heat waves will become more the norm, rather than the exception. These problems are likely to be exacerbated by the processes of urbanisation and densification that many towns and cities are experiencing. This means that we need to design in a different way, so that as well as reducing greenhouse gas emissions, we take account of expected future climate change. POLICIES C.F. Møller will work with climate adaptation, so that our buildings and landscapes are able to deal with future climate change, promoting green solutions in dense urban environments. RESULTS FOR 2019 • We won the ‘City to the Water’ urban development and climate adaptation competition for the city of Randers. • We completed a collaboration with students from Aarhus University to develop iterative design tools to estimate overheating very early in the design process. ACTIVITIES FOR 2020 • We will work with developing green urban environments that can deal with future climate change and increasing amounts of CITY TO THE WATER, RANDERS rainfall. The development plan ‘City to the Water’ adapts the future • We will work in developing early stage design tools that can of Randers to the environment, connects the city with demonstrate that our buildings and landscapes are able to the water and develops the attractive areas between the adapt to future to climate change. medieval city centre, the river Gudenå and Randers Fjord into a unique city borne of the river. 16 17 User Needs and Well-being People spend up to 90% of their time indoors, so buildings must fulfill complex functional demands and create a sense of delight, as well as ensuring healthy indoor environments. ISSUES & RISKS With people spending the majority of their time within the built environment, poorly designed buildings can have longterm negative impacts. Indoor environments play a critical role in the unfolding of people’s daily lives in modern society, and with the long lifespan of buildings, the decisions we make as architects during the design process are as such of extreme importance: • Creative and inspiring architecture can give a sense of delight and well-being for users. • Poorly designed buildings, which do not meet the changing functional requirements of clients and users, can over time be of great expense to society. • Poorly designed buildings can have negative health effects on users’ thermal and visual indoor comfort. POLICIES C.F. Møller will work to create architecture where inspiring, healthy and functional environments give a sense of delight and well-being for users. RESULTS FOR 2019 • We have developed iterative design tools that estimate daylighting and thermal comfort in the very early design stages. • We won a joint First Prize in the international architectural competition for the new German Ministry of Environment in Berlin, where creating good daylighting and indoor comfort conditions were the driving force in the architectural solution. ACTIVITIES FOR 2020 • We will work to develop design tools and architectural solutions that support greater functionality early in the design process. • We will work with developing tools and architectural solutions GERMAN MINISTRY FOR ENVIRONMENT, BERLIN that create healthy indoor environments during the early design The building’s facade is inspired by the varied density of tree stages crowns as a part of a low-tech sustainability strategy that reduces the CO2 footprint whilst also contextually improving daylighting and enhancing thermal comfort for occupants. 18 19 Changing Societal Demands Shifting social, economic and environmental conditions, and the subsequent changes in demand, mean that we need to be proactive in developing our architectural response. ISSUES & RISKS As societies develop over time, there are changes in perception and needs, and this over time affects both the demand for certain building types, and how these buildings are designed and used. Examples are changing requirements and increased regulatory demands for sustainability, where Sweden and Denmark are introducing the environmental assessments of materials into their building regulations. To thrive and maintain our long-term position in the market, C.F. Møller must stay at the forefront and be agile by adapting continuously to changing market and client demands. POLICIES C.F. Møller will work proactively to be at the forefront of changing client, regulatory and societal demands, so that we can interpret and translate them into our architectural work. RESULTS FOR 2019 • We have played an active role in developing the voluntary sustainability class in the Danish Building Regulations. • We are playing a leading role in the new EU supported R&D project, Build in Wood, which runs from 2019-2023. • We have worked to remove regulative barriers to timber building, and have organised a seminar to promote timber buildings, with leading politicians, construction experts and major clients. ACTIVITIES FOR 2020 • We will become involved in the development of new legislation and voluntary codes pertaining to the built environment. SUNDSHOLMERNE AA — ECOVILLAGE • We will initiate a dialogue with clients and partners on the Sundsholmerne New text. is a sustainable co-housing community demand side of the value chain to understand their thinking and located in Aalborg’s new Stigsborg district. The buildings are inform our architectural responses. DGNB Gold-certified and designed with full consideration for social, economic and environmental criteria. 20 21 Labour C.F. Møller is a knowledge-based organisation, with the combined creativity and knowledge of our employees being the central asset in our ongoing creation of architectural quality. ISSUES & RISKS In knowledge-based organisations, employees are the primary production asset, and creating an attractive workplace and finding and retaining highly qualified employees can be major challenges. C.F. Møller could experience challenges in accessing a highly qualified workforce. However, with an almost 100 year record of architectural quality, C.F. Møller can offer challenging projects to work on, thus attracting international candidates to internships and fixed positions, and creating a highly qualified and dedicated workforce. In the Nordic region, rights extend beyond the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. All our employees have rights to join employee organisations, partake in collective pay negotiations, and have paid holidays, sick leave and parental leave. POLICIES C.F. Møller will work to attract highly qualified candidates and will continue to create an attractive workplace for our employees. RESULTS FOR 2019 • We held the Hindsgavl Summit, where all employees from all our studios were invited to two days of cross-diciplinary learning and international debate about great architecture. • We have engaged with relevant educational institutions to find highly qualified candidates to internships and fixed positions. • We have developed our own professional development program to offer employees forward looking professional competences. ACTIVITIES FOR 2020 • We will work on attracting the best new employees by proactively engaging with relevant educational institutions. • We will offer in-house professional development courses to increse emplyee competencies in new fields and markets. HINDSGAVL SUMMIT • We will continue to offer attractive employment packages, and In June 2019 over 250 of C.F. Møller’s employees took part in the will not use unpaid internships. Hindsgavl Summit. These two days of creative learning and cultural insights were combined with a lot of fun, with study tours and workshops designed to encourage our creativity and co-operation. 22 23 Equality and Diversity At C.F. Møller, with eight architectural studios in five Nordic and North European countries, we aim for equality and diversity as cornerstones of an inclusive and creative workplace. ISSUES & RISKS In organisations with poor levels of diversity and equality, there may be a risk of not fully understanding market and client demands, and not being able to fully reflect the wider conditions that may exist in society. It can also give problems in attracting and retaining the best employees, and in creating a well-balanced workplace. C.F. Møller has approximately 300 fulltime employees, with 43% being female and 57% male. We have employees of over 20 nationalities. POLICIES C.F. Møller will continue working to increase the share of women in the Board of Directors, Management Team and throughout the organisation. C.F. Møller’s Board of Directors are also the Senior Equity Partners. In 2015 we set the goal of having two female members of the Board by 2020. RESULTS FOR 2019 • With the appointment of Lone Bendorff as senior Equity Partner, two of the Senior Equity Partners are now female, thus achieving the goal of having two female Board members. • Our Management Team consists of 30 members, with 12 being female and 18 being male. There is gender equality in the Management Team, with 40% being female. ACTIVITIES FOR 2020 • We will start a dialogue regarding how we can create an attractive workplace for ambitious female employees. • We will seek to have at least one female candidate among the final three candidates for any management position. 24 25 Human Rights C.F. Møller strives to avoid problems with employee conditions in the global value chain for construction materials and buildings, and with the human rights of building occupants. ISSUES & RISKS Materials production and construction activity are parts of global production chains. It can be difficult for architects to have precise knowledge on where and how materials are produced, or whom is involved during construction, and whether sub-contractors are meeting legally binding national employment rights. There are also building types, such as psychiatric hospitals and prisons, where human rights can be central design issues in relation to rehabilitation and the reducing physical force. C.F. Møller’s work with human rights is defined in relation to the UN Declaration of Human Rights from 1948. We are members of The Danish Association for Responsible Construction (Foreningen for Byggeriets Samfundsansvar), which promotes social responsibility in the Danish property and construction sector. POLICIES C.F. Møller will work to improve human rights in relation to building design, materials production and building construction. RESULTS FOR 2019 • The design and construction of the Springfield University Hospital in London, where evidence-based design has been used to reduce the use of physical restraint on patients, has started. . • We have internally examined how best to engage proactively with our employees redgarding human rights. ACTIVITIES FOR 2020 • We will hold internal courses in cooperation with the Danish Association for Responsible Construction, so that our employees can become more aware of human rights issues relating to employment conditions on construction sites or with suppliers. • We will work with improving the human rights for building users SPRINGFIELD UNIVERSITY HOSPITAL, LONDON and occupants in the design of relevant buildings types, such as The hospital was carefully designed with evidence-based psychiatric hospitals and prisons. research and consultation with users and stakeholders, using the principles of healing architecture to improve the human rights of patients by reducing the use of physical restraint. 26 27 Anti-corruption At C.F. Møller, we have a zero tolerance policy with regards to corruption, and we have the highest standards of corporate ethics and total integrity in our transactions. ISSUES & RISKS Corruption is a global problem, and in an international perspective, the construction industry’s extensive value chain is seen as one of the sectors where corruption can be widespread. Corruption can have negative consequences for society, businesses and individuals. Although the Nordic countries are amongst the world’s least corrupt, there can be corruption, and there can be situations where our decisions in relation to the value chain can unknowingly support corruption. POLICIES C.F. Møller has a zero tolerance policy to corruption and fraud, and we actively contribute to combating corruption in all of its forms. C.F. Møller only solicits design and consulting work, and only participates in private or public competitive bidding, under the highest standards of corporate ethics, and with total integrity in its transactions. No offer, payment, consideration or benefit of any kind, which constitutes fraud, illegal or corrupt practices, shall be made, neither directly nor indirectly, as an inducement or reward in relation to the tendering, award of contracts or execution of contracts. RESULTS FOR 2019 • We have not experienced cases of corruption on our projects during 2019. • We have internally examined how best to engage proactively with our employees regarding anti-corruption. ACTIVITIES FOR 2020 ZERO TOLERANCE FOR ANTI-CORRUPTION • We will hold internal courses in cooperation with the Danish AsC.F. Møller has the highest standards of corporate ethics and sociation for Responsible Construction, so that our employees a zero-tolerance policy for anti-corruption and fraud. This can become more aware of anti-corruption issues. means that we have not experienced cases of corruption on our projects during 2019. 28 29 Contact AARHUS STOCKHOLM Europaplads 2, 11. Krukmakargatan 21 8000 Aarhus C, Denmark 118 51 Stockholm, Sweden T +45 8730 5300 T +46 (0)8 5557 6000 cfmoller@cfmoller.com stockholm@cfmoller.com COPENHAGEN MALMÖ Danneskiold-Samsøes Allé 28 Stora Varvsgatan 6a 1434 Copenhagen K, Denmark 211 19 Malmö, Sweden T +45 3288 7844 T +46 (0)8 5557 6000 OSLO STOCKHOLM kbh@cfmoller.com stockholm@cfmoller.com AALBORG BERLIN Strandvejen 17 Frizz23, Friedrichstrasse 23a 9000 Aalborg, Denmark 10969 Berlin, Germany AALBORG T +45 9632 9797 T +49 (0)17 2160 0011 AARHUS aalborg@cfmoller.com berlin@cfmoller.com COPENHAGEN MALMÖ OSLO PRESS Prinsens gate 2, 1.et. Head of Communications 0152 Oslo, Norway Peter Sikker Rasmussen T +47 2413 3400 T +45 6193 6857 BERLIN oslo@cfmoller.com psr@cfmoller.com LONDON LONDON Telephone House, 69-77 Paul Street cfmollerarchitects London EC2A 4NW, United Kingdom T +44 (0)20 7427 1530 cfmoller_architects london@cfmoller.com cfmollerarchitects cfmoller.com #ImproveLifeforPeopleandPlanet
