ESG REPORT 2019 AIP MANAGEMENT E S G R E P O R T 2019 A MESSAGE FROM OUR MANAGING PARTNER Welcome to our first annual ESG report. The goal of this report ency in ESG information and ESG reporting provides value to is to provide an overview of how we have chosen to integrate our investors. Throughout 2019 we further enhanced the role environmental, social and governance (ESG) matters in the of ESG and we implemented an expanded due diligence risk way we invest, manage our assets and pursue our mission. assessment for all new investments. We continuously strive to improve our ESG performance alongside the more traditional AIP Management (AIP) was originally founded in 2012 by financial indicators. ESG is an integral part of our investment the Danish pension fund PKA, and in 2018 established as an process and a key component in the management of our independent investment manager. We are proud to have PKA assets post acquisition. and PenSam as cornerstone investors, both of whom have long-standing commitments to ESG and responsible investing. We are proud that AIP is on a journey to deliver positive change, support the energy transition and create strong AIP is dedicated to managing our investors’ investments into returns for our investors. We look forward to broadening our energy and infrastructure assets in Europe and the US. The inresponsibility and continue delivering positive impact and herent societal importance of energy and infrastructure assets great financial results. makes ESG an imperative component for AIP when investing in and managing such assets. We believe that a strong focus on responsible investing and ESG will create long-term value for our investors and society at large. Kasper Hansen, Managing Partner AIP is predominantly investing in assets which support the June 2020 transition towards a low-carbon energy economy. This energy transition entails a long-term structural change that we expect will create significant investment opportunities. This will continue to be a key investment driver for AIP going forward. Since AIP’s establishment as an independent investment manager we have re-confirmed our commitments to the UN Global Compact and the UN Principles of Responsible Investment (UN PRI) that have been guiding principles for our work since the very beginning. Through our participation in the UN Global Compact, we have committed to universal principles on human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. By committing to the UN PRI, we support the integration of ESG into investment decisions, which we believe provides the best outcome for our investors. In 2019 we also decided to become a GRESB Infrastructure member because we believe transpar2 E S G R E P O R T 2019 TABLE OF CONTENTS AIP at a glance....................................................................................................................... 4 ESG highlights 2019............................................................................................................ 6 Portfolio overview................................................................................................................ 8 Our ESG process................................................................................................................ 13 ESG investment cases..................................................................................................... 19 AIP and the Sustainable Development Goals......................................................... 21 Sustainability of AIP operations.................................................................................. 23 Focus areas for 2020....................................................................................................... 27 Methodology...................................................................................................................... 29 PRI Content Index............................................................................................................. 30 UN Global Compact Progress report.......................................................................... 32 3 E S G R E P O R T 2019 AIP AT A GLANCE AIP is an investment manager that has grown out of the Danish pension sector and is dedicated to partnering with The AIP team consists of more institutional investors on investments into energy and infrathan 30 professionals with exstructure assets in Europe and the United States. tensive investment, energy and infrastructure experience. AIP AIP provides an investment platform that offers multiple has invested more than EUR long-term likeminded investors the opportunity to par3.5 billion and the target for ticipate in sizeable energy transition related assets. Our the coming years is to invest approach captures the benefits of scale and focus on investaround EUR 1 billion per year. ments structured to fit the desired risk/return profile, while contributing positively to society and the environment. 4 E S G R E P O R T 2019 PKA and PenSam, the two cornerstone investors of AIP, have together with other Danish pension funds been among the Denmark has during the past pioneers of infrastructure, investing with a strong emphasis 30 years created a pension on the energy transition and climate change mitigation. system that is consistently rated no. 1 or 2 in the world. Together the two Danish labour-market pension funds, PKA Today, Danish employees typiand PenSam, have almost EUR 60 billion in assets under cally save around 11% of their management and over 700,000 members, including among salary for pension. This has others nurses, medical secretaries, and people within elder over the past decades created and pedagogical care in Danish municipalities, regions, and a significant concentration private companies. Both institutions are members of IIGCC of pension capital, a strong and Climate Action 100 +, as well as TCFD signatories. PKA investment industry and large and PenSam have a target of investing 10% of their assets asset owners. Denmark has the into climate friendly investments by respectively 2020 and world’s largest pension sector 2025. in relation to GDP. 11 of Europe’s top 100 pension funds are Danish. 5 E S G R E P O R T 2019 ESG HIGHLIGHTS 2019 During 2019 we continued our work to integrate ESG in our The role of gas in the energy transition investment process, investment decisions and ongoing asset Natural gas is useful in conjunction with renewable energy management. sources. Since renewable energy from solar and wind is intermittent, gas can provide a stable and flexible base load of electric power at a lower carbon footprint compared to other fossil fuels. In the medium term, gas is considered a necessary part of the energy transition in order to achieve energy sustainability. AIP has the capacity and the expertise to source and pick the right investment opportunities within gas infrastructure. Our actions ESG due diligence of new investments In 2019, we formalised a third-party ESG screening as part of the due diligence process for new investments. This was Our commitments a step towards fully integrating ESG considerations in our Responsible investing has been an integral part of AIP’s investment process. Further, we expanded our ESG due dilinvestment strategy and way of working since its foundation igence framework based on international baseline requirein 2012. Born out of PKA’s long-standing commitment to rements and a number of specific non-financial frameworks, sponsible investing and reducing the environmental impact standards and factors that we consider material for the of its investments, AIP has an active approach to responsible investments. AIP collaborates with Klinkby Enge, a specialinvesting and ESG matters. ized ESG due diligence provider. AIP was established as an independent investment manParticipating in the GRESB Infrastructure Fund assessment ager in 2018. One year later, we committed to responsible 2019 was our first year of participation in the annual GRESB investing by signing up to the UN Principles for Responsible Infrastructure Fund assessment. The GRESB InfrastrucInvestment and the UN Global Compact. We also became ture Fund Assessment evaluates the ESG performance of a GRESB Infrastructure Participant and we support the UN infrastructure funds. The overall score is a combination of Sustainable Development Goals. our own ESG management and the ESG management and performance of the assets that have chosen to participate in Investments in 2019 the GRESB assessment. In 2019 we invested in the El Campo onshore windfarm in the United States (see case study on page 20) and in the AIP’s fund score was 74 out of 100, at par with the peer Nyhamna gas processing plant in Norway. average. The asset score was 15 out of 100, which was below average due to low asset operator participation in the 6 E S G R E P O R T 2019 GRESB reporting. Only two out of seven operational assets Participating in PRI reporting took part in the assessment in 2019, these being: TDC and Part of being signatory to UN PRI is the annual transparency Garland & Tranquillity. In 2020, we will work to increase the report. As with the GRESB assessment this is an opportunity asset operator participation. to reflect upon the status of our work with responsible investing. The first reporting cycle was completed in March 2020. RENEWABLE ENERGY CAPACITY, GENERATION AND CO 2 FOOTPRINT FROM ASSETS IN AIP’S PORTFOLIO RENEWABLE ENERGY CAPACITY 1 2,579 + 1,825 = 4,404 MW of total renewable MW of renewable energy MW of renewable energy capacity in operation capacity under construction energy capacity RENEWABLE ENERGY GENERATED and powered corresponding to which is equivalent to corresponding to 9,935 3,094,679 672,756 2,232,580 GWh of renewable tonnes CO2 avoided cars off the road Danish households with energy in 2019 renewable energy CO 2 FOOTPRINT Tonnes of CO2 avoided from renewable energy generation: Net asset CO2 footprint 3,094,679 Tonnes of CO2 generated from assets: -3,021,373 73,306 tonnes of CO2 1 The renewable energy capacity, generation and CO2 emissions avoided are for 100% of the assets and are not adjusted for ownership share of the assets. Renewable energy assets refers to our solar, biomass, offshore and onshore wind assets. CO2 generated from assets, 7 includes scope 1 emissions from the Nyhamna gas facility and scope 1-3 emissions from TDC. It does not include emissions from the Vestprosess gas facility or emissions from the operation of the renewable energy assets. For further information, see section “Methodology”, page 29. E S G R E P O R T 2019 PORTFOLIO OVERVIEW Since 2012, the AIP team has led investments and managed a portfolio of more than EUR 3.5 billion in 17 infrastructure assets across North-western Europe and the US. Renewable energy infrastructure Europe ANHOLT Anholt is among the largest offshore wind farms in Denmark, located between Jutland and the island of Anholt. It has a capacity of 400 MW coming from the 111 Siemens 3.6 MW wind turbines. Anholt has the capacity to supply green and renewable electricity corresponding to the annual consumption of approximately 396,000 Danish households2 every 2011 year until decommissioning. PKA holds a 20% equity stake alongside partners PensionDanmark (30%) and Ørsted (50%). Geography: Denmark Sector: Offshore wind Commitment: EUR 335 million BUTENDIEK Butendiek is a 288 MW offshore wind farm located in the North Sea around the GermanDanish border, approximately 32 km off the island of Sylt. It consists of 80 Siemens 3.6 MW wind turbines. Every year until decommissioning, the wind farm will be supplying green and renewable electricity to cover the annual consumption equivalent of 289,000 2013 Danish households. PKA held a 22.5% equity stake alongside Marguerite (22.5%), Industriens Pension (22.5%), Siemens (22.5%), and WPD (10%). PKA’s investment was fully realized in 2017. Geography: Germany Sector: Offshore wind Commitment: EUR 100 million GEMINI Gemini is a 600 MW offshore wind farm located in the Dutch part of the North Sea, 85 km north off the coast of Groningen. Gemini is supplying renewable electricity to the equivalent of 596,000 Danish households annually and consists of 150 Siemens wind turbines with a capacity of 4.0 MW each, making it one of the largest wind farms in the world in terms of size 2014 and production. PKA is invested in a junior debt tranche alongside Northland Power who is also invested in the equity. Geography: The Netherlands Sector: Offshore wind Commitment: EUR 120 million 2 See section “Methodology”, page 29. E S G R E P O R T 2019 GODE WIND 2 Gode Wind 2 is a 252 MW offshore wind farm located in the German North Sea, approximately 45 km from the German coastline. Gode Wind 2 consists of 42 wind turbines each with 6 MW capacity from Siemens Wind Power including a gearless solution and rotors with wingspan of 154 meters in diameter. Gode Wind 2 provides renewable electricity to the equivalent of 242,000 Danish households every year. 2014 AIP is the dedicated asset manager on behalf of the equity investor consortium. Ørsted holds a 50% stake, PKA holds a 24.75% stake, with equity partners Industriens Pension, Lægernes Pension, and Lærerernes Pending holding the remaining equity. Geography: Germany Sector: Offshore wind Commitment: EUR 288 million BURBO BANK EXTENSION Burbo Bank Extension is a 258 MW offshore wind farm located 7km off the coast of Liverpool in the UK. Ørsted constructed the asset and is operating it while holding a 50% equity stake. The asset became fully operational in 2017 and is now supplying renewable electricity to the equivalent of 218,000 Danish households. 2016 PKA holds a 25% equity stake alongside KIRKBI (25%) and Ørsted (50%). Geography: The UK Sector: Offshore wind Commitment: EUR 440 million TEES RENEWABLE ENERGY PLANT Tees Renewable Energy Plant is a 299 MW biomass power plant located in the Northern part of England. The asset is under construction and is expected to be completed by 2021. When operational, the power plant will generate enough electricity to cover the annual electricity consumption equivalent of 493,000 Danish households. 2016 The biological material (biomass) used at the plant consists of residues from commercial sustainable forestry and saw mills, which would otherwise not be used (waste wood). The pellet suppliers are compliant with multiple independent standards3. PKA currently holds a 50% stake in the equity with partner Macquarie holding the remaining 50%. Geography: The UK Sector: Biomass plant Commitment: EUR 175 million 3 American Tree Farm System (ATFS), the Timber Standard for Heat & Electricity, the Forest Stewardship Council Standard (FSC) and the Programme for the Endorsement. of Forest Certification (PEFC). 9 E S G R E P O R T 2019 WALNEY EXTENSION Walney Extension is a 659 MW offshore wind farm located in the East Irish Sea in the UK. The asset became fully operational in 2018 and is considered one of the largest offshore wind farms in the world providing renewable electricity to the equivalent of 628,000 Danish households per year. 2017 PKA holds a 25% stake alongside Danish pension fund PFA (25%) and Ørsted (50%). The financing of the investment includes debt financing in the PFA and PKA holding company. Geography: The UK Sector: Offshore wind Commitment: EUR 335 million BLAFA Blakliden/Fäbodberget onshore windfarm (BlaFa) is a 353 MW onshore wind farm under construction in Sweden. AIP partnered with the Swedish utility Vattenfall and turbine supplier Vestas to build the wind farm, which is expected to cover the annual electricity consumption for the equivalent of approximately 246,000 Danish households. 2018 PKA and PenSam own 30%, Vattenfall 30% and Vestas 40%, PKA and Vattenfall have provided a substantial mezzanine loan. Geography: Sweden Sector: Onshore wind Commitment: EUR 110 million Renewable energy infrastructure North America GARLAND & TRANQUILLITY Garland and Tranquillity are two solar generation assets situated in California, United States. They have a combined capacity of 410 MW and consist of more than 1.7 million solar panels. The two assets became operational in 2016 and combined they provide renewable electricity to the equivalent of 247,000 Danish households every year. 2018 PKA and PenSam hold a 49% equity stake with Southern Power owning the remaining 51%. Geography: California, United States Sector: Solar Commitment: USD +300 million 10 E S G R E P O R T 2019 EL CAMPO El Campo is a 243 MW onshore windfarm located in Knox Country, Texas. The park begun construction in July 2019 and all 67 Vestas turbines are expected to be in operation during the third quarter of 2020. Construction is managed by Longroad Energy and performed by the experienced M.A. Mortenson and Vestas. The wind park will be the first of its kind in Knox County and has significant backing from the local community. The park is 2019 expected to provide renewable electricity to the equivalent of 211,000 Danish households every year. PKA and PenSam jointly hold a 50% equity stake in an equity partnership with Longroad Energy Holdings. In addition, PKA and PenSam have provided a term loan to the project. Geography: Texas, United States Sector: Wind Commitment: USD +100 million PROSPERO I & LITTLE BEAR Prospero I and Little Bear are two solar generation assets situated in Texas and California, United States and have a combined capacity of 594 MW. The two assets are set to start operation by the fourth quarter of 2020 and combined they will provide renewable electricity to the equivalent of 279,000 Danish households every year. 2020 PKA and PenSam jointly hold a 50% equity stake in an equity partnership with Longroad Energy Holdings. In addition, PKA and PenSam have provided a term loan to the Prospero I project. Geography: California and Texas, United States Sector: Solar Commitment: USD +200 million ESCALADE Escalade is a 336 MW onshore windfarm located in Knox Country, Texas which is set to start operation in the fourth quarter of 2021. The park will consist of 25 Vestas V150 and 40 Vestas V162 turbines and construction will be managed by the experienced parties Akuo Energy USA, Mortenson Construction and Vestas. The park has entered into a 30-year service agreement with Vestas and Akuo Energy that will act as long-term asset manager during operations. Additionally, the park is expected to provide renewable electricity to the 2020 equivalent of 275,000 Danish households every year. PKA and PenSam jointly hold a 35% equity stake alongside Taaleri Energia, Taaleri SolarWind II, Ilmarinen and Akuo Energy. In addition, PKA and PenSam have also provided a term loan to the project. Geography: Texas, United States Sector: Wind Commitment: USD 180 million 11 E S G R E P O R T 2019 Other infrastructure TDC TDC is Denmark’s largest telecommunications operator with more than 3 million customers across TV, broadband and mobile segments. The investment, which involved taking TDC private, is focused on strengthening the Danish digitalization through largescale investments into fibre and 5G technology over the next decade, all aimed at putting Denmark at 2018 the forefront of the digital transformation. PKA is invested in the equity alongside Macquarie Infrastructure and Real Assets, ATP, and PFA. Geography: Denmark Sector: Telecommunications Commitment: EUR 460 million NYHAMNA The Nyhamna gas processing plant is one of Northern Europe’s largest gas processing facilities, located in North-western Norway. It became operational in 2007 and processes gas from the Ormen Lange and Aasta Hansteen fields. More fields are expected to be connected in the future through the Polarled pipeline that connects Aasta Hansteen with Nyhamna. The facility is owned by the Nyhamna Joint Venture. 2018 + 2019 In 2018, North Sea Infrastructure4 acquired 3.7% of the Nyhamna Joint Venture from ExxonMobil Exploration and Production Norway AS. In July 2019 a sale and purchase agreement was signed with AS Norske Shell for a 10% participation interest of Nyhamna Joint Venture bringing North Sea Infrastructure’s ownership to 13.7%. Geography: Norway Sector: Gas infrastructure Commitment: NOK undisclosed VESTPROSESS Vestprosess DA is a natural gas liquids (NGLs) processing facility in Norway located at the Mongstad processing plant. AIP acquired an 8% participating interest in Vestprosess DA from A/S Norske Shell, 2019 through its subsidiary North Sea Infrastructure in October 2019. Following acquisition + 2020 from Total E&P Norge AS and ExxonMobil in 2020, North Sea Infrastructure’s ownership in the facility is now 23%. Geography: Norway Sector: Gas infrastructure Commitment: NOK undisclosed 4 North Sea Infrastructure is owned by PKA and PenSam. 12 E S G R E P O R T 2019 OUR ESG PROCESS Environmental, Social and Governance considerations are important for investment decision-making, both to understand and manage risks, and to identify opportunities for enhancement. We believe that a strong focus on responsible investing and ESG will create long-term value for our investors. We have identified a set of key ESG principles that form the starting point for our ESG process. Identify and manage the environmental consequences of our investments The construction and operation of infrastructure assets have environmental consequences that need to be assessed and managed. We always ensure that a detailed impact assessment on the environment has been conducted before making a positive investment decision. Through our systematic ESG due diligence process, we analyse risks to the environment, both locally and globally, assessing issues such as impact on biodiversity and habitat, use of water and resources, air and greenhouse gas emissions. Post investment, we then integrate environmental monitoring and risk management in the ongoing action plan for the asset. Renewable energy creation We do not invest in oil, coal and tar sands By investing in and managing renewable infrastructure asWe do not invest in assets or energy sources with high rates sets in Europe and North America we aim to actively contribof CO2 emissions that can efficiently be substituted by lower ute to the energy transition from fossil fuels to renewable emitting energy sources or assets. Oil, coal and tar sands are energy sources with a significantly reduced carbon foottherefore excluded from our investment universe. print. We invest in renewable energy assets from late stage development through to operations and thereby participate in the gradual transformation of energy infrastructure to the benefit of our investors and the regions we invest in. 13 E S G R E P O R T 2019 Identify and manage the social and human rights impacts of our investments Prioritize health and safety for workers and community Protect privacy and personal data Health and safety issues are assessed throughout the conAIP acknowledges that privacy and personal data is a funstruction and asset management phases of the investments. damental right in the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the Health and Safety are monitored and addressed as priority European Union and is committed to protecting the privacy items at Board level in the portfolio companies. and security of personal data. Acknowledge and observe fundamental employee rights Prioritize stakeholder relations The fundamental employees’ rights shall be acknowledged Relations with local community and relevant authorities and observed by the investment project, including signifishall be promoted to the extent relevant and AIP will work cant suppliers. We work to ensure freedom of association, to ensure that a constructive dialogue is maintained with all elimination of forced labour and child labour, and preventing relevant stakeholders. discrimination in all forms. 14 E S G R E P O R T 2019 Strong governance as a foundation Key governance principles guiding our activities Strong governance practices, based on international recognized principles, form the foundation for sound business practices and risk management. We expect the assets we 1 Compliance with laws and invest in to comply with these principles, which are impleregulations at all times mented through code of conduct requirements. 2 Corporate governance framework Active owners guided by internationally In the role of non-executive Directors in the investment recognized principles companies, our senior employees take an active role to ensure strong governance, as well as to make sure ESG 3 Zero-tolerance for corruption and standards and principles are observed. If any governance bribery challenge – perceived or real – is identified, this is reported to the Investment Committee. Separately, our Risk Management and Compliance departments provide independent 4 Prevent risk of money laundering monitoring. and/or fraud Conflict of interest 5 Avoid conflict of interest and AIP is committed to avoiding any situation which may give encourage transparency rise to a conflict of interest and we encourage transparency wherever possible. A policy dedicated to conflict of interest 6 Responsible and transparent sets out both preventative measures and what actions to tax practices take if a conflict of interest is discovered. Prior to entering into an investment opportunity AIP and its employees are to 7 Develop responsible business consider any potential conflict of interest related to the oprelationships with alignment of portunity for AIP and its investors, as well as, their respective interests, engage with partners to employees. promote ESG If a conflict of interest arises towards the investors, AIP is to inform them of the nature and extent of the conflict of 8 Promote full disclosure on ESG interest. Based on the information received, the investors in accordance with good will have to provide a consent on whether the activity or industry practice transaction can be completed. In the case of a rejection, AIP and the implicated employees must refrain from the activity. Our governance principles are further described in our ESG policy and tax policy. 15 E S G R E P O R T 2019 We are committed to international best ESG in our investment process practice principles “As a responsible investor, AIP applies an ESG framework to AIP’s principles for responsible investment are based on ensure a thorough analysis is conducted when addressing global, universally recognized standards and guidelines, both risks and opportunities. We integrate ESG throughout developed by international bodies, such as the UN, IFC, OECD all stages of the investment process, from initial investand the EU. These standards and guidelines form the founment screening, to investment analysis and due diligence, dation for our work with ESG in our investments. negotiation and closing of transactions, and thereafter asset management.” AIP is a signatory of the United Nations Principles of Responsible Investment (UN PRI), a UN Global Compact participant, Ulrik Pallisø Bornø, Partner. and since 2019 a member of GRESB Infrastructure. AIP supports the UN Sustainable Development Goals (see separate section). 16 E S G R E P O R T 2019 INVESTMENT PROCESS ESG Governance Pre-investment The investment team coordinates preparation of initial ESG assessment. This provides a high-level view on significant ESG issues. If the investment is attractive, the next steps are to identify the key ESG risks and opportunities and highlight any red flags. Specialist advisors are brought in as required. In the case that no red flags are identified, a more detailed ESG due diligence is initiated. 1 • Exclusion list • Desk-top ESG searches on potential counterparties The exclusion list defines companies and sectors that AIP does not invest in. This list is reviewed quarterly. ESG Screening Prior to entering into business relationships with new partners, AIP conducts a review of the partner in order to only engage with reputable business partners. 2 • Initial investment analysis and risk assessment, incl. ESG • ESG Red flag report The ESG Red flag report identifies significant ESG issues. If a significant risk cannot be sufficiently mitigated, this may lead to terminating the investment process. Initial analysis 17 Investment decision A comprehensive ESG due diligence report is provided to the investment team. The investment team prepares a full risk register (including ESG) on the investment opportunity. A firm offer is finalized by incorporating the findings from the analysis and the risk register. 3 • Detailed investment analysis, incl. ESG • ESG due diligence report • Investment offer preparation A comprehensive ESG due diligence report is delivered, highlighting all ESG risks that Advanced have been evaluated for the investment. A detailed investment analysis is carried out, analysis and incorporating relevant ESG considerations in preparing the investment offer. due diligence 4 • Vendor negotiations on price and terms • Inclusion of ESG requirements in agreements The contracts are negotiated taking into consideration the ESG issues identified during the due diligence process. ESG requirements are incorporated in the agreeNegotiation ments where relevant. and closing Asset management and monitoring ESG activities, monitoring and reporting are included in the asset management phase. In their roles as non-executive Directors in the partnership, the AIP asset managers review regular Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) reporting from the assets and address HSE and other ESG priorities at the partner meetings. 5 • Incorporate ESG issues in asset management • Work with partners to improve ESG performance The ongoing asset management incorporates ESG risks and opportunities into the action plans for the assets. AIP representatives at the assets work with co-investors Asset and partners to reduce ESG risks and improve ESG performance. management and monitoring E S G R E P O R T 2019 ESG INVESTMENT CASES Case: Garland & Tranquillity Investing in solar energy in the United States In 2018, AIP initiated investments in solar energy generation by investing in the two solar projects Garland and Tranquillity located in California, United States. This is part of our commitment to invest in and support the transition to renewable energy sources. The two assets consist of more than 1.7 million solar panels and have a combined capacity of 410 MW. The transaction was closed in October 2018. PKA and PenSam, through funds managed by AIP, hold a 49% equity stake with Southern Power owning the remaining 51%. Southern Power is a leading American wholesale energy provider and is part of the Southern Company Group, which is recognised in the top 40 global utilities. PKA and PenSam have jointly committed more than USD 300 million in equity. Construction of the Garland solar facility began in November 2015 on 2,000 acres of land in Kern County, California. The Garland facility “At PKA we are strongly committed began operations during the fourth quarter of 2016. to investing in a greener and more sustainable future while securing The Tranquillity solar facility began construction in July 2015 on good returns for our members. 1,900 acres in Fresno County, California, and was fully operational in Therefore, we are delighted to the third quarter of 2016. partner with Canadian Solar and Recurrent Energy and add yet Southern Power continues to provide asset management services on another green energy investment both solar facilities. to our portfolio. This is our first direct investment in solar energy, Combined, the two solar facilities provide renewable energy to the and it is an important addition to equivalent of 247,000 Danish households. our investments in wind energy and biomass. By 2020 our ambition is to have 10 percent of our total investments allocated to climate related projects.” Jon Johnsen, Chief Executive Officer, PKA. 19 E S G R E P O R T 2019 Case: El Campo Expanding our renewable investments through onshore wind In 2019, AIP invested in the 243 MW El Campo windfarm in Knox County, Texas. This is part of our strategy of developing the renewable investment portfolio in the United States and provide clean affordable energy to the local market. This investment complements our solar generation assets in Texas and California. AIP will continue to develop our portfolio of renewable assets in the United States. The investment closing was achieved in June 2019, when PKA and PenSam, managed by AIP, announced a 50/50 equity partnership with Longroad Energy, an experienced American renewable energy developer, to develop the El Campo windfarm. The windfarm is expected to achieve commercial operation by July 2020. PKA and PenSam have jointly committed more than USD 100 million as equity and loan capital. Vestas American Wind Technology Inc. will supply 67 wind turbines. Engineering, Procurement and Construction (EPC) is provided by Mortenson, a major EPC wind provider in the US. Power Purchasing Agreements (PPAs) have been signed with DaVita Inc. and Crown Holdings for the majority of the generating capacity. “A project of this size fits our portfolio very well and provides Longroad Energy, through one of its affiliates, will provide the future cash flows from a contract construction management, the asset management, operations and with offtakers committed to maintenance, and the remote monitoring services to the project. purchasing renewable energy. We are proud to contribute to The park is expected to provide renewable electricity to the equivathis investment and thankful lent of 211,000 Danish households every year. for the support of our execution partners, AIP and Longroad Energy El Campo is one of the first of its kind in Knox County and has been for securing affordable clean received positively by the local community. The project will contribrenewable energy.” ute local tax revenues and is expected to provide employment for approximately 200 people during construction. Torsten Fels, Chief Executive Officer, PenSam. 20 E S G R E P O R T 2019 SDG Goals 1: No Poverty 2: Zero Hunger 3: Good Health and Well-being AIP AND THE SUSTAINABLE 4: Quality Education 5: Gender Equality DEVELOPMENT GOALS 6: Clean Water and Sanitation 7: Affordable and Clean Energy 8: Decent Work and Economic Growth In 2015, the Member States of the United Nations unani9: Industry, Innovation and mously agreed upon the 17 Sustainable Development Goals Infrastructure (SDGs), making them the world’s agenda for sustainable 10: Reduced Inequality development. The SDGs provide a holistic framework for 11: Sustainable Cities and addressing the world’s most urgent sustainability challenges. Communities 12: Responsible Consumption At AIP we acknowledge that businesses have a key role to and Production play in achieving the SDGs. This is why we are committed to 13: Climate Action aligning our investments with seven of the SDGs. These are 14: Life Below Water SDG 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 11, and 13. 15: Life on Land 16: Peace and Justice Strong We have a holistic approach to how our investments impact Institutions the SDGs and recognize that infrastructure assets have both 17: Partnerships to achieve the Goal positive and negative impacts on the SDGs. We continuously 21 E S G R E P O R T 2019 work with systematically measuring and disclosing ESG performance of our portfolio assets as a part of the investment due diligence process. How AIP impacts the SDGs AIP is at the beginning of measuring and disclosing our impacts on the SDGs from our investment portfolio and we will continue to develop our reporting on the SDGs in the future. The following analysis is the result our first SDG impact analysis. Energy transition Our portfolio of renewable infrastructure assets contributes to the transition to renewable energy sources and reduced carbon footprint. It helps increasing the amount of available clean energy in the total energy mix which in turn contributes to lower greenhouse gas emissions from energy consumption and decrease global warming. This is in line with the ambitions of SDG 7, 9, 11 and 13 concerning increased availability of clean energy and climate change resilience. Reduce negative environmental footprint Through our systematic ESG due diligence process, we analyse risks to the environment. This includes inherent risk during construction of infrastructure asset and the use and responsible disposal of hazardous materials, in line with ambitions of SDG 6. We are also committed to continuously working to reduce the carbon footprint of our investments, in line with SDG 7 and 9. Ensure good working conditions We contribute to providing decent job opportunities and to ensuring that Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) issues are actively monitored in our investments and that human and labour rights are acknowledged as stated in SDG 8 and 5. 22 E S G R E P O R T 2019 SUSTAINABILITY OF AIP OPERATIONS In addition to the ESG impacts generated by the investment Our environmental footprint portfolio, there are also ESG considerations to be made The following tables show a breakdown of AIP’s greenhouse regarding AIP’s direct operations. The ESG impact from these gas (GHG) emissions. AIP as an investment manager does activities relate primarily to AIP’s staff and the operations not have any emissions from owned sources, i.e. Scope 1 and management of AIP’s offices. emissions. Therefore, only CO2e emissions based on Scope 2 and Scope 3 are shown5. Breakdown 2019 GHG % of total GHG per employee Monthy average (tonnes of CO2e) (tonnes of CO2e) (tonnes if CO2e) Scope 2 3.5 0.2% 0.1 0.3 Scope 3 Travel 142.9 8.4% 4.9 11.9 Scope 3 Supply chain 1,553.2 91.4% 53.6 129.4 Total 1,699.6 100% 58.6 141.6 Breakdown of 2019 GHG % of total GHG/employee GHG monthly average business travels (tonnes of CO2e) (tonnes of CO2e) (tonnes of CO2e) Flights 139.8 97.8% 4.8 11.6 Taxi 1.9 1.4% 0.1 0.2 Other transportation6 1.2 0.8% 0.04 0.1 Total 142.9 100% 4.9 11.9 Breakdown of 2019 GHG % of total GHG/employee GHG monthly average full scope 3 (tonnes of CO2e) (tonnes of CO2e) (tonnes of CO2e) Business travel 142.9 8.4% 4.9 11.9 Legal service 734.1 43.3% 25.3 61.2 Financial 248.1 14.6% 8.6 20.7 Engineering 145.9 8.6% 5.0 12.2 Management service 115.1 6.8% 4.0 9.6 IT 61.3 3.6% 2.1 5.1 Accounting 43.2 2.5% 1.5 3.6 Food 33.7 2.0% 1.2 2.8 Software 29.1 1.7% 1.0 2.4 Business administration 26.4 1.6% 0.9 2.2 Other7 116.2 6.9% 4.0 9.7 Total 1,696.1 100% 58.5 141.3 5 Scope 1 emissions are defined as direct emissions from owned sources. Scope 2 emissions are defined as indirect emissions such as electricity consumption. Scope 3 emissions are defined as other indirect emissions such as emissions from travel and supply chain. 6 “Other transportation” include emissions related to metro, trains, car rental, 23 bus, and ferry. 7 “Other” include emissions related to security, furniture, cleaning, etc. E S G R E P O R T 2019 EMPLOYEES NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES RETENTION OUR STAFF At the start of 2019 17 AIP places significant emphasis on supporting and developing a talented workforce. 100% in 20198 AIP’s objectives are to ensure an inclusive work place, prevent discrimination, promote health, safety and wellbeing, At the end of 2019 29 and support the personal and professional development of our staff. We have established processes for recruitment, engagement, training and development of staff to support these objectives. EMPLOYEES BY GENDER EMPLOYEES BY AGE GROUP 8 8 21 18 3 Male Female <30 >50 30-50 8 Excluding junior analysts, which are short term hires by nature. 24 E S G R E P O R T 2019 EDUCATION COURSES TAKEN GDPR Human Resources Employer branding SDGs – UN Global Compact E-learning set up RI/ESG/Code of conduct policy Time Management Personal Account Dealing & Conﬂict of interest policy Portfolio & Risk management policy Valuation In 2019, we spent a signifFirst aid Whistleblower/IT/ icant part of our educaOutsourcing policy tion time on AIP internal policies. ABSENCE DAYS OF ABSENCE BY ABSENCE TYPE IN 2019 120 90 60 During 2019, we had a 30 total of 120 absence days 1 due to parental or sick 0 leave. The average numParental leave Sick leave ber of absence days per month per employee was 0.4 throughout 2019. 25 E S G R E P O R T 2019 Our community activities creating a link between academia and the finance indusAt AIP, we have decided to enter into partnerships with stutry. FinanceLab allows students to hone their skill set and dent associations. The main goal is to spread knowledge of increase their practical knowledge while increasing their the importance of investments in infrastructure and energy student and professional network. assets and broaden the understanding of how ESG factors are incorporated in our decision-making process. The interest in sustainable investments is growing at campuses around the world, with many business schools having AIP started a partnership with FinanceLab in late 2019, introduced courses specific to ESG and sustainable investa non-profit student organisation with more than 2,750 ments. Students increasingly recognise the importance of registered members from the major universities in Denmark. responsible investments. FinanceLab offers a range of courses and lectures with speakers from both the academic and professional world, 26 E S G R E P O R T 2019 FOCUS AREAS FOR 2020 Investment and asset management TCFD supporter AIP will become a supporter of the Task Force on Climate-reReducing carbon footprint at project level lated Financial Disclosures (TCFD). By investing in renewable infrastructure assets, AIP is contributing to mitigating climate change. In 2020, we will explore Standardize ESG quarterly reporting how we can contribute to further reductions in emissions at In 2020, we will expand our ESG reporting in our quarterly the project level. Open dialogue and common objectives with reports to the investors across all assets. our asset operators and the other shareholders specifically on climate change are key to reducing carbon footprint Review of ESG policies across our portfolio and we strive to engage on the topic to We will review and update our ESG policies and procedures, move the objectives forward. This will include a systematic both in relation to scope and to content, and to ensure we approach to emissions in our asset management action plans. provide the best possible contribution to UN PRI and UN Global Compact. ESG screening of new projects and potential partners In 2020, we will conduct full third-party ESG due diligence EU Sustainability Taxonomy on all new projects as part of the investment decision. We aim to integrate the criteria applied in the EU Sustainability Taxonomy in our ESG due diligence framework. 27 E S G R E P O R T 2019 Responsible tax management Responsible tax management is highly prioritised by AIP and the institutional investors investing in funds managed or advised by AIP and has an important role across society. AIP will use best efforts to ensure compliance with applicable tax law and regulations within the jurisdictions where investments are made and structures are established, including consideration as to developments and international initiatives in relation to tax law. AIP will also continue acting openly in relation to tax authorities and other public authorities within the applicable tax law and regulations. Reporting aligned with TCFD and the UN SDGs We wish to continue increasing transparency for our stakeholders and will work on aligning future reporting with TCFD requirements. Additionally, we will develop our reporting on the SDGs. As part of this process, we are working on incorporating the SDGs into our ESG due diligence process. Diversity GRESB assessment across portfolio assets AIP treasures the benefits of a diverse workplace. Today, AIP’s We will continue our dialogue with our partners and asset team is representing 14 different country and cultural backoperators with the aim of increasing the asset participation grounds with a female presentation of almost 40% across in GRESB reporting by adding at least two extra assets every the organization. We aim to continue this journey by proyear. We want to improve our fund manager and asset score moting and enforcing guidelines that ensure transparency on an ongoing basis with the ambition to be in the upper in the recruitment process and present equal opportunities quartile compared to the peers. regardless of age, background, race and gender. We also aim to increase the diversity across our governance bodies. AIP internal ESG Carbon neutrality Cyber security AIP strives to achieve carbon neutrality by minimizing its Cyber security is highly prioritized by AIP as the assets manown carbon footprint by seeking alternative ways to reduce aged by AIP are frequently categorised as critical infrastrucand/or offset its greenhouse gas emissions. ture. AIP aims to continue dialogue with the asset operators in order to prioritize cyber security measures and ensure Student associations the assets are shielded from any potential cyber-attacks. We want to continue expanding our collaborations with Also, AIP is continuously looking to improve its internal universities and student associations. We are currently in disystems and procedures towards a lower exposure. AIP has alogue with CBS Sustainable Investment Club, which aims to implemented a cyber security training programme forming a spread knowledge about sustainable investments to the CBS crucial component of a robust control environment, helping student body. The ambition is to enter into a partnership as to mitigate related risks in this regard. per the third quarter of 2020 and arrange a couple of events. 28 E S G R E P O R T 2019 METHODOLOGY AIP reports on sustainability performance on an annual basis. AIP’s ESG report 2019 refers to the period January Households powered 1st, 2019 to December 31st, 2019. This is AIP’s first annual The number of households powered by renewable energy ESG report. The report was developed in collaboration with from AIP’s investments is calculated by using the average Klinkby Enge, an independent third-party advisor. Klinkby electricity consumption of households per year. The averEnge has received environmental and social data from AIP age electricity consumption per household is sourced from and performed checking of the data. This has been done to Bolius and represents the average electricity consumption of ensure accountability of the data and methodology used in a Danish household. the report. CO2 generated from assets This report covers AIP Management P/S. The figure “CO2 generated from assets”, referenced on page 6, includes the CO2 emissions generated from Nyhamna and Disclosure in relation to standards and TDC. CO2 from Nyhamna is calculated using production figcommitments ures from the asset and conversion factors from the International Gas Union and does not include CO2 emissions arising This ESG report contains information relevant for AIP’s comfrom activities such as shipping, transportation, or supply mitments and relevant reporting standards. chain. CO2 generated from TDC is reported in TDC’s annual sustainability report and includes Scope 1-3 emissions. • The report utilizes the information that AIP has provided in the 2019 PRI reporting. See PRI content on page CO2 emissions from Vestprosess and CO2 emissions arising 30 for references. from shipping, transportation, and supply chain activities of all assets, except TDC, are not included in this report. • The report includes our Communication on Progress (COP) submission to the UNGC. See page 32 for referAIP’s carbon footprint ences. The calculation of AIP’s carbon footprint follows the framework established by the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol. The Methodology environmental key figures calculations were done by Normative. Emissions avoided Scope 2 emissions are calculated using energy consumption The CO2 emission avoided are calculated by using the averfigures from AIP’s energy supplier, Ørsted. age emissions from non-renewable energy creation in the countries that AIP assets are located. The actual conversion Scope 3 emissions for AIP’s travel are calculated using (CO2 per kWh) depends on the energy mix in the market on databases recommended by the GHG Protocol such as the which the renewable energy is sold. The conversion factors Department for Environment, Food & Rural Affairs (DEFRA). used are sourced from the International Environmental Agency (IEA). Scope 3 emissions for AIP’s supply chain are based on transaction data between AIP and its suppliers. The service/prodCars avoided uct of the transaction is categorised in accordance with the The number of cars avoided on the road is calculated by United Nations Standard Products and Services Code (UNSPusing the average CO2 emissions from a car per year. The SC) classification. The emissions are based on consumption average CO2 emissions per car is sourced from the United data of the service/product category per sector and country States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). deriving from data banks such as Eurostat. 29 E S G R E P O R T 2019 PRI CONTENT INDEX Organisational Overview Indicator Short description Principle Page reference OO 01 Signatory category and services General 4 OO 02 Headquarters and operational countries General 4 OO 04 Reporting year and AUM General 4 OO 05 Breakdown of AUM by asset class General 4 OO 06 How would you like to disclose your asset class mix General 4 OO 09 Breakdown of AUM by market General 4 OO 11 ESG incorporation practices for all assets General 2 OO LE 01 Breakdown of listed equity investments by passive and active General 8-12 strategies OO INF 01 Breakdown of infrastructure investments General 8-12 OO INF 02 Breakdown of infrastructure assets by management General 8-12 OO INF 03 Largest infrastructure sectors General 8-12 Strategy and Governance Indicator Short description Principle Page reference SG 01 RI policy and coverage General 15 SG 01 CC Climate risk General 13 SG 03 Conflicts of interest General 15 SG 04 Identifying incidents occurring portfolios General 14 SG 07 RI roles and responsibilities General 17-18 SG 09 Collaborative organisations / initiatives 5,6 2, 6-7, 16, 21, 27-28, 32 SG 12 Role of investment consultants/fiduciary managers 4 17-18 SG 14 Long term investment risks and opportunity 1 6-7, 13 30 E S G R E P O R T 2019 Direct Infrastructure Indicator Short description Principle Page reference INF 01 Description of approach to RI 1,6 6, 13-16 INF 02 Responsible investment policy for infrastructure 1,6 15 INF 03 Fund placement documents and RI 1,4,5 17-18 INF 05 Incorporating ESG issues when selecting investments 1 17 INF 06 ESG advice and research when selecting investments 1,4 17-18 INF 07 Examples of ESG issues in investment selection process 1,3 13-15 INF 10 ESG issues in selection, appointment and monitoring of 4 13-15 third-party operators INF 11 ESG issues in post-investment activities 2 18 Confidence building measures Indicator Short description Principle Page reference CM1 01 Assurance, verification, or review General 29 CM1 07 Internal verification General 29 31 E S G R E P O R T 2019 UN GLOBAL COMPACT PROGRESS REPORT Declaration of support: WE SUPPORT In 2019, AIP Management signed the principles of the UN Global Compact. We acknowledge the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact on the key areas of human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. We are committed to integrate the principles of the UN Global Compact into our strategy, culture, and day-to-day operations. The way in which we contribute to meeting these principles within our area of responsibility is shown in our annual Communication on Progress, integrated into this ESG report. Kasper Hansen, Managing Partner Human rights Environment 1) Businesses should support and respect the protection of 7) Businesses should support a precautionary approach to internationally proclaimed human rights in their area of environmental challenges; influence; and 8) undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental 2) make sure that they are not complicit in human rights responsibility; and abuses. 9) encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. • A message from our Managing Partner (page 2) • Our ESG process (pages 13-14) • ESG highlights 2019 (pages (6-7) • AIP and the Sustainable Development Goals (pages 21-22) • Portfolio overview (Pages 8-12) • Our ESG process (pages 13-14) Labour • ESG investment cases (pages 19-20) 3) Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and • AIP and the Sustainable Development Goals (pages 21-22) the effective recognition of the right to collective bargain• Focus areas for 2020 (pages 27-28) ing; 4) the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory Combating corruption labour; 10) Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, 5) the effective abolition of child labour; and including extortion and bribery. 6) the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. • A message from our Managing Partner (page 2) • Our ESG process (page 15) • Our ESG process (page 14) • AIP and the Sustainable Development Goals (pages 21-22) 32 E S G R E P O R T 2019 DISCLAIMER This report has been prepared by AIP Management P/S No representation or warranty, express or implied, is or and/or any of its affiliates (“AIP”) for information purposes will be made and no responsibility or liability is or will only. The information and opinions contained in this report be accepted by AIP (or any of its directors, officers, agents, (“Information”) are provided as at the date of this report representatives, employees or advisers) in relation to the solely for information and background and does not purport accuracy, completeness or fairness of this report, the Inforto be comprehensive and are subject to completion, revision mation (including without limitation, economic and financial and amendment without notice. By attending a meeting projections or risk analysis) or any further written or oral where this report is presented, or by reading this report or information made available to the recipient or its advisers part hereof, you agree to be bound by terms, conditions and or otherwise in connection herewith. The report may contain limitations set out in this disclaimer. forward-looking statements, which by nature, involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to and depend on cirNeither this report nor any Information is intended for districumstances that may or may not occur in the future. Actual bution to, or use by any person or entity in, any jurisdiction or results may differ materially to those in forward-looking country where such distribution or use would be restricted statements. under local law or regulation. Recipients represent that they are able to receive the report and the Information without AIP may amend or replace this report and any information contravention of any registration requirements or other legal contained herein at any time. No obligation is undertaken to restrictions in the jurisdiction where they reside or conduct provide the recipients with access to any additional informabusiness. tion, to update the information contained in the report or to correct any inaccuracies, which may become apparent. No part of this report, including any oral statements and any material distributed in connection with this report, should This report, and any matter or dispute (whether contractual form the basis of, or be relied on in connection with, or act or non-contractual) arising out of it, shall be governed and as any inducement to enter into, any contract or commitment construed in accordance with Danish law. or investment decision whatsoever. 33 E S G R E P O R T 2019 AIP Management P/S Rosenborggade 1B DK-1130 Copenhagen Denmark CVR: 39 50 43 08 34
