COP_2021 HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES Assessment, Policy and Goals Description of the relevance of specific human rights issues for the company (i.e. based on assessment of human rights risk). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on Human Rights. o SkanTechs goal is to influence that our employees and all our business partners respect the Universal Declaration of Human rights and environmental protection. Based on our commitment we have set up a code of conduct for all our recent and future suppliers. Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement Human Rights policies, address Human Rights risks and respond to Human Rights related concerns Skantech has taken the following measures to prevent human rights violations in its work locations: o All suppliers have to fill out a questionnaire regarding fulfillment of human rights. o The management reviews and takes immediately action of incoming questionnaires o A training session has been repeated for all employees to raise and maintain the public awareness on human rights issues. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. o Skantech audits and evaluates all partners and suppliers against a set of defined principles, policies and guidelines. Any contravention of human rights will be documented and the responsible partner will be placed on probation and given a timeframe to address and resolve the issue. Continued non-compliance will result in the partner relationship being terminated. o Management audits suppliers annually without any warning to ensure that they are working within the defined guidelines of human rights. LABOUR PRINCIPLES Assessment, Policy and Goals Description of the relevance of labor rights for the company (i.e. labor rights-related risks and opportunities). Description of written policies, public commitments and company goals on labor rights. o Our handbook covers policies concerning our employee rights and compensation and responsibilities. o We will continue to refine our employee handbook as needed and incorporate the Global Compact. o All business partners and suppliers shall follow the Labor principles. Implementation Description of concrete actions taken by your company to implement labor policies, reduce labor risks and respond to labor violations. o All employees have a health insurance. All employees are encouraged to practice exercise. Employees will be informed regularly on informal and formal meetings, e.g. quality, quality management, environmental status of compliance with the objectives, changes in the management system and the results of improvement activities. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. o We have a 100 % compliance on approved working contracts. We have a constant dialogue with the employees which are the best way of securing a good working environment and prevent stress. The management therefore has a responsibility of monitoring the employee’s well-being, both on a regular basis and through yearly evaluation reviews. ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES Assessment, Policy and Goals Description of the relevance of environmental protection for the company (i.e. environmental risks and opportunities). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on environmental protection SkanTech wishes to be a company that cares for the environment and how environmental activities are a natural part of everyday life in compliance with applicable legal requirements, REACH, WEEE and others. We will continuously improve the environment in line with the company's production of technical and economic feasibility, including the prevention of pollution. We encourage suppliers and customers to provide environmentally responsible products and services. The consumption of electricity in our office will be reduced by 1% annually in the coming years. (measured in kWh compared to the number of employees on the basis of end-2013). The amount of unsorted waste minimized to 0%. Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement environmental policies, reduce environmental risks and respond to environmental incidents o Skantech will work to develop new products with the aim of reducing customers’ fuel consumption and thus contribute to a reduction in harmful emissions. Our company is committed to purchase products that fulfill environmental benefits and communicating their utility and benefits to our various stakeholders. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates environmental performance With fixed intervals implemented agreed measurements and calculations of the parameters that must account for compliance with measurable targets within: o Consumption of resources o Waste Disposal o Suppliers have to sign a declaration of conformity for the fulfillment of the environmental principles and standards. ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES Assessment, Policy and Goals Description of the relevance of anti-corruption for the company (i.e. anti-corruption risk assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on anti-corruption. o SkanTech has for partners and supplier no-tolerance policy for corruption, bribery and extortion. We will educate all employees about corruption, to prevent any cases of corruption, bribery and extortion. Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement anti-corruption policies, reduce anti-corruption risks and respond to incidents. o A yearly training session will be conducted for all employees to raise the awareness on corruption, bribery and extortion. Internal checks and balances to ensure consistency with the anti-corruption commitment. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates anti-corruption performance. o Skantech has not been involved in any legal cases, rulings or other related to corruption and bribery. Our books and accounts are subjected to statutory external audit annually. The audits are used as one of the methods of identifying any suspicious payments, which could be related to bribery or corrupt behavior. No incidents have been reported
