SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Our journey towards 2020 About the report This sustainability report covers the period from 1 January to 31 December 2019. With this report, we strive to provide a fair, comprehensive and relevant picture of our company. This includes an overview of selected activities, transparent progress on KPIs set in our Energy and Climate Strategy 2020 and how we strive to be a Model Company as defined by our founder Villum Kann Rasmussen in 1965. This report represents our Communication on Progress under the UN Global Compact. The scope of this sustainability report and its disclosures cover all VELUX A/S activities and wholly-­ owned companies with the following exemptions: Disclosures regarding health and safety and waste do not include VELUX Commercial due to a lack of data for the reporting year. Lost Time Incident Frequency and absenteeism due to accidents cover VELUX production locations and warehouses in our residential division and VELUX A/S employees thus excludes VELUX Commercial and VELUX sales companies. The VELUX Group is working to integrate these entities in future reporting. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 | Table of contents Table of Letter to our stakeholders  4 ENERGY AND CLIMATE  31 The Model Company Objective  6 Reducing our carbon footprint  32 Sustainability at a glance  7 Pioneering sustainable products  36 contents Our company  ADDRESSING THE GLOBAL CHALLENGES 8 10 PEOPLE FIRST Growing our people  39 40 Climate change calls for action  11 Diversity in the VELUX Group  43 A safe and healthy working environment  44 TAKING OUR RESPONSIBILITY 14 The Employee Foundation makes a difference 47 Energy and Climate Strategy 2020 15 TOWARDS ZERO WASTE  50 LEADING THE CHANGE ON HEALTHY Eliminating production waste  51 AND SUSTAINABLE BUILDINGS  16  Why healthy and sustainable buildings are needed  17 RESPONSIBLE SOURCING  55 Activities19 Responsible business in the supply chain  56 Growing up in (un)healthy buildings  20 Sourcing of certified wood  59 Daylight Symposium and Healthy Buildings Day 2019  22 Fair competition, tax and anti-corruption  62 The VELUX Group partners with C40 in Copenhagen  23 Sponsoring Women4Climate Tech Challenge  24 TOWARDS A SUSTAINABILITY Urbantech accelerates the development STRATEGY 2030  63 of sustainable cities and buildings  25 Energy Solutions in the EU  26 Reference table 64 Partnering for healthy buildings, people and planet  27 Reporting principles  64 The first RenovActive home in Slovakia inaugurated 28 Partnering for sustainable buildings 30 Page 3 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 | Letter to our stakeholders Letter to our stakeholders Our Sustainability Report 2019 was written aspects of our society. Fortunately, amid this well before the outbreak and subsequent concerning backdrop, global public awareness rapid spread of the Corona (COVID-19) virus. of sustainability rose. As a responsible company, the VELUX Group is doing its utmost to adhere to authorities’ It became evident that all societal stakeholders measures and to protect employees and partmust take action and contribute to sustainable ners. We hope that the global situation soon development. To guide us in our actions, we improves so that people and organisations can continue to draw inspiration from our Model address climate change challenges and take Company Objective of 1965. It is our purpose necessary actions to create a more sustainable to create products that are useful to society, world. The VELUX Group is ready to play our while treating our partners, our people and the part as we describe in the following. world around us better than most other companies do. This includes taking responsibility In the last year, we experienced a world where for our own social and environmental impact in climate changes caused by human activity every aspect of our activities. demonstrated their damaging effects. Meanwhile, a report by the Intergovernmental Panel Building on this strong foundation, this report, on Climate Change showed that we can only the ninth of its kind in the VELUX Group, illusbend the curve on global carbon emissions trates how deeply sustainability is ingrained and avoid irreversible damage to our nature in our business and the five focus areas in our by invoking sustainable and responsible Energy and Climate Strategy 2020. production and consumption patterns in all Page 4 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 | Letter to our stakeholders In 2019, we achieved In 2019, we launched a new strategy for our products that will enable us to reduce the Looking ahead, I believe sustainability will be even higher on the agenda of most organisaa 47% reduction in CO2 environmental footprint of our products while tions, including the VELUX Group, where 2020 promoting a healthier indoor climate. Our goal marks the year where we set a pivotal course is to include parameters for sustainability towards 2030. These next 10 years are dubbed emissions compared to alongside the traditional indicators for quality and cost in product development. by the United Nations as the Decade of Action to deliver on the UN Sustainable Development a 2007 baseline. We cannot achieve our ambitious goals as a Goals. Our actions for this decade will be outlined in our new and ambitious Sustain­ Model Company without the talent and dediability Strategy 2030. But for now, I hope you David Briggs cation of our people. And we cannot maximise read about our accomplishments in 2019 and CEO, the VELUX Group these things without a workplace that is safe learn how we strive every day to be a Model and inclusive for all. The work-related accident Company. rate for 2019 was the second best we have ever achieved, with 1.7 incidents recorded per one million working hours. David Briggs We wish to lead the development of healthy global knowledge-sharing and transitioning to CEO, the VELUX Group and sustainable buildings with good indoor clirenewable energy sources will help us reach mates and minimal carbon footprints. In 2019, our 2020 commitment and beyond. we developed a new definition of a sustainable home, led research-driven publications, conSustainability is not only good for the planet ducted building experiments and engaged in – it is also good for business. Reducing waste external partnerships to support the developcuts costs while reducing our material footment of holistic sustainable building solutions print. In 2019, 97% of the waste generated that benefit the environment and improve the from our production was recycled or reused for health of people all in a world where up to heating, which brings us very close to our goal 90% of our time is spent indoors. of zero waste. As for our own operations, across production Recycled waste facilities, warehouses and offices, in 2019 we 97% of the waste generated in 2019 from our achieved a 47% reduction in CO2 emissions production was recycled or reused for heating. 97% compared to a 2007 baseline. This puts us well on our way to reaching our 2020 goal of a 50% reduction. Focused efforts on energy efficiency, continuous improvements at local sites, Page 5 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 | The Model Company Objective It is the Group’s purpose to establish a number of Model Companies, which cooperate in an ­exemplary manner. By Model Company we mean a company working with products useful to society, which treats its customers, suppliers, employees of all categories and shareholders better than most other companies. A Model Company makes a profit, which can also finance growth and maintain financial independence. Villum Kann Rasmussen, 1965 Founder of the VELUX Group THE MODEL ­COMPANY OBJECTIVE Our company values and ways of operating are based on the Model ­Company Objective, which was formulated in 1965 by our founder Villum Kann Rasmussen. The VELUX Model Company Objective continues to serve as the basis of all VELUX Group activities. Page 6 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 | Sustainability at a glance Sustainability Leading the change We wish to lead the change on healthy and sustainable buildings through partnerships and activities. at a glance Energy Solutions C40, Urbantech Copenhagen Brussels Active House Alliance Throughout 2019 the VELUX Group has worked with 150 Active Houses in 23 countries targets and initiatives in our Energy and Climate RenovActive Strategy 2020. These are our highlights: Slovakia Daylight Symposium, Healthy Buildings Day, Healthy Homes Barometer Paris Code of Conduct for Suppliers Health and safety Sustainable wood Energy, climate and waste In 2019, 99.5% of our direct suppliers had signed our We achieved our second-best result ever in terms In 2019, 99.6% of the wood used in our European We want to minimise our environmental footprint by Code of Conduct for Suppliers. The remaining 0.5% is of health and safety with 1.7 incidents per 1 million windows came from certified sustainable sources. reducing our CO2 emissions, eliminating waste and due to ­suppliers leaving and entering the partnership. work hours. This is around five times better than the Our goal is to reach 100% in the coming years. switching to renewable energy. comparable industry benchmark, but our goal is to 99.5% 99.6% have zero accidents. Waste 1.7 repurposed 97% incidents per The Employee Foundation The Employee Foundation gave out 521 grants to current or retired employees in an emergency, to their Carbon emissions 1,000,000 47% children’s higher education or training and to non-profit Renewable projects geographically close to the VELUX Group’s energy activities. work hours 28% 521 Page 7 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 | Our company Our company It is our vision to lead the development of better living environments with daylight and fresh air through the roof, and to be rated as the best in the eyes of our customers. 11,500 people worldwide Founded in Denmark in 1941, the VELUX of stakeholders, it is our vision to lead the Group is today a global market leader and one development of better living environments of the strongest brands in the building industry. with daylight and fresh air through the roof, 40 countries with sales companies and to be rated as the best in the eyes of our We offer high quality products and services customers. We continuously develop digital 27 production sites in ten countries within: applications, handbooks and guides to inspire • Roof windows and skylights partners, homeowners and customers on the • Modular and flat-roof skylights for commerbenefits of daylight, natural ventilation and cial buildings digital solutions when designing new buildings • Flat-roof windows and sun tunnels or renovating existing ones. • Blinds and roller shutters • Flashings and installation products Ownership • Active, digital products The VELUX Group is wholly owned by VKR Holding A/S, a limited company owned by As a global company, the VELUX Group THE VELUX FOUNDATIONS and family. This employs 11,500 people worldwide with sales ownership structure ensures sustainable, longcompanies in 40 countries and 27 production term thinking and social responsibility and sites in ten countries. that a significant proportion of the company’s profits are returned to society through the The VELUX Group is primarily a business-tofoundations. Companies in the VKR Holding business company delivering our products and A/S portfolio cover the business areas of roof solutions directly to dealers and professional windows and skylights, vertical windows and house builders through a global logistics and solar thermal energy. The financial results of supply network. Working closely with a range the VELUX Group are incorporated in Page 8 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 | Our company A large share of the profits of VKR Holding A/S is returned to society by THE VELUX FOUNDATIONS. A new business division VKR Holding’s revenue Examples of grants in 2019: Furthering women’s careers in research We have a strong ambition to VKR Holding’s revenue amounted to EUR 2.9 billion VILLUM FONDEN launched the new VILLUM become a leading player in the (DKK 21.6 billion) in 2019 Vocational training for craftsmen in P ­ oland International Postdoc Programme in 2019 commercial market, and we have The Polish Roofers Association received a with the aim of improving the gender balance grant from VILLUM FONDEN to carry out a in academia by advancing the international already taken the first steps to five-year project to raise interest among young career of female post doc researchers through build that position. EUR 2.9 billion people in the roofing profession, an industry earmarked funding. Nicolas Limbach with good job opportunities in the future. SVP, VELUX Commercial Protecting the sea forests of the world READ MORE The VELUX Group’s first step into the commercial marVKR Holding’s consolidated accounts. In 2019, Scientists were awarded a grant by VELUX ket was in 2012 with the launch of the VELUX Modular VKR Holding VKR Holding’s revenue amounted to EUR 2.8 FONDEN for their research on trying to underTHE VELUX FOUNDATIONS Skylight system. With a strategic ambition to also bebillion (DKK 21.5 billion) and net profit for the stand more about the contribution of marine come the market leader in the commercial segment the year came to EUR 412 million (DKK 3.1 billion). and coastal ecosystems to solving the global three companies Wasco, JET and Vitral were acquired climate challenge. in 2018 and now constitute VELUX Commercial. THE VELUX FOUNDATIONS A large share of the profits of VKR Holding Research in dementia The core business of the new division is skylight solutions for commercial, public and industrial buildings. A/S is returned to society by THE VELUX VELUX FONDEN has supported a research The commercial products ranging from single dome FOUNDATIONS – VELUX FONDEN and project that generates new knowledge about units to extensive skylight solutions are designed to VILLUM FONDEN. The foundations operate people with dementia. The aim of the project create healthy, comfortable and productive indoor independently from VKR Holding A/S and is to contribute to a rehabilitation effort that spaces in schools, offices, industrial facilities, hospitals, its companies. In 2019, the foundations creates value for people with dementia, their shopping malls and sports facilities. VELUX Commercial granted DKK 1.3 billion (EUR 178 million) relatives and for society. thus carries the strong VELUX heritage of daylight and in total for scientific, environmental, social fresh air through the roof, high product quality and care and cultural purposes. for people and planet. Page 9 Addressing global challenges The world is currently facing an increasing number of complex and interconnected economic and social challenges that put a strain on global stability. But perhaps the most critical and overshadowing issue is the climate crisis as it transcends the social, economic and environmental boundaries of sustainable development. Page 10 ADDRESSING GLOBAL CHALLENGES | Climate change calls for action Climate change A realisation of the solutions to the SDGs deExamples of how we collaborate with govpends on a strong commitment by all societal ernment institutions, the building community, actors to take action in a coordinated effort. non-governmental organisations, academia, calls for action Partnerships and innovation-sharing across end-users and the broader civil society are governments, companies and industries are thoroughly described in this report. With the therefore needed now more than ever. belief that partnerships are the driver of long-lasting change, we welcome new collaborations that support the development of Limiting global warming to 1.5°C is possible but impactful sustainable solutions. requires rapid, far-reaching and unprecedented changes in all aspects of society. According to the Intergovernmental Panel TAKING ACTION ON THE UN SUSTAINABLE on Climate Change, a rise in temperatures DEVELOPMENT GOALS of 2°C above pre-industrial levels will have With the world facing cross-boundary, devastating effects on the climate, the envicross-border challenges, the UN Sustainable ronment and natural systems as we know it. Development Goals (SDGs) are becoming We are already seeing the consequences of a increasingly relevant in promoting a transfor1°C rise in temperatures through more extreme mational global agenda. The SDGs provide all weather, rising sea levels and diminishing societal stakeholders with a common language Arctic sea ice. on the issues that must be addressed in order to achieve true sustainable development by Not surprisingly, the World Economic Forum 2030. The VELUX Group fully supports the lists environmental risks as three of the top ongoing implementation of the SDGs on a five global risks by likelihood and four by global scale and recognizes the importance impact, with extreme weather events being of companies taking action. The 17 SDGs are the risk of greatest concern1. Limiting global inherently interconnected, and we have chosen warming to 1.5°C is possible but it will rapid, to focus our efforts where we have the strongfar-reaching and unprecedented changes in all est impact due to a direct link to our business. aspects of society . 2 Where established relevant targets exist, we seek to address these specifically. Page 11 ADDRESSING GLOBAL CHALLENGES | Climate change calls for action Good Health Affordable and Sustainable Cities and Wellbeing Clean Energy and Communities Ensuring healthy lives and promoting the well-being for Increased energy efficiency and the use of renewables Inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable cities and all at all ages is essential to sustainable development. contribute to climate change mitigation by reducing communities are key to solving global challenges the emission of carbon into the atmosphere. related to climate change, healthy housing, energy consumption and much more. RELEVANT TARGETS HOW WE CONTRIBUTE RELEVANT TARGETS HOW WE CONTRIBUTE RELEVANT TARGETS HOW WE CONTRIBUTE 3.4 By 2030, reduce by one Our products and integrated tech7.3 By 2030, double the global New and existing VELUX products 11.1 By 2030, ensure access for We create forums for collaboration third premature mortality nologies are designed to maximise rate of improvement in are continuously improved to all to adequate, safe and and knowledge-sharing on healthy from non-communicable the benefits of a healthy indoor energy efficiency. ensure optimal energy efficiency affordable housing and basic buildings and participate in politdiseases through prevention climate by letting in daylight and wherever they are installed. We use services and upgrade slums. ical advocacy groups to promote and treatment and promote fresh air through the roof. life cycle analysis and thinking to healthy and safe indoor environmental health and well-­ document and verify our products, 11.6 By 2030, reduce the adverse ments at the national and EU level being. Go to: Pioneering sustainable energy savings. per capita environmental and reduce the impact of buildings products impact of cities, including on people and the environment. 3.9 By 2030, substantially Go to: Pioneering sustainable by paying special attention reduce the number of deaths Creating healthy indoor enviproducts to air quality and municipal Go to: Leading the change and illnesses from hazardous ronments is only possible if all and other waste managechemicals and air, water and stakeholders in the building sector ment. Our roof windows and skylights soil pollution and contamicomes together to develop innovahelp to improve the indoor living nation. tive solutions that empowers users conditions of buildings in our and encourages healthy choices markets and helps to reduce through good design. Through our their energy consumption. Digital activities we promote building detechnologies in our product portsigns and solutions that contribute folio provide easy indoor climate to an increased feeling of good management and maximise health health and wellbeing for end-users benefits for the user. in buildings. Go to: Pioneering sustainable Go to: Leading the change products Page 12 ADDRESSING GLOBAL CHALLENGES | Climate change calls for action Responsible Partnerships Consumption and for the Goals Production Enhanced international cooperation across govern­ Urgent action is needed to ensure sustainable ments, businesses, non-governmental organisations and consumption and production patterns across all sectors academia is needed to increase the chance of fulfilling of the economy. the SDGs by 2030. RELEVANT TARGETS HOW WE CONTRIBUTE RELEVANT TARGETS HOW WE CONTRIBUTE 12.2  By 2030, achieve the Through responsible production we 17.16 Enhance the global In 2019, we engaged in external sustainable management aim to reduce the carbon footprint partnership for sustainable partnerships, facilitated knowland efficient use of natural from our production by 50% in 2020 development, complemented edge-sharing and promoted healthy resources. from a 2007 baseline. In 2019, we by multi-stakeholder partand sustainable building designs achieved a 47% CO2 reduction. nerships that mobilize and and solutions. 12.4  By 2020, achieve the share knowledge, expertise, environmentally sound Go to: Reducing our carbon technology and financial Go to: Leading the change management of chemicals footprint resources, to support the and all wastes throughout achievement of the sustaintheir life cycle, in accordance In 2019, 97% of the waste from able development goals in with agreed international our production was recycled or all countries, in particular frameworks, and significantreused for biomass heating. developing countries. ly reduce their release to air, water and soil in order Go to: Towards zero waste to minimize their adverse impacts on human health In 2019, 99.6% of the wood in our and the environment. European windows came from certified sustainble forests. Our goal is 12.5  By 2030, substantially to reach 100% in the coming years. reduce waste generation We rely on our Code of Conduct through prevention, reducfor Suppliers and other company tion, recycling and reuse. programmes and policies to ensure responsible sourcing. 12.6  Encourage companies, espe­ cially large and transnational Go to: Responsible sourcing companies, to adopt sustainable practices and to integrate We offer a safe and healthy worksustainability information into ing environment with development their reporting cycle. opportunities for our employees. Go to: People first Page 13 Taking our responsibility We take our responsibility in mitigating global challenges through the VELUX Energy and Climate Strategy 2020. Page 14 TAKING OUR RESPONSIBILITY | Energy and Climate Strategy 2020 Energy and Climate Leading the change on Strategy 2020 healthy and sustainable buildings We wish to lead the change on healthy and Lea din sustainable buildings as buildings account ng g u rci t he for a large part of the world's energy conThe VELUX Energy and Climate Strategy 2020 e so ch an sumption and CO2 emissions. si bl ge is centred around five focus areas. on Resp Energy and climate Our goal is to reduce our carbon footprint by 50% in 2020 while developing energy Responsible sourcing efficient products that support a healthy Striving To minimise the risk of negative impacts through indoor environment. our supply chain, we set high requirements for ourselves and our suppliers. to be a Model Energy and c waste Company lima zero d s te ar Tow Towards zero waste People first Our vision is to achieve zero waste in As stated in the Model Company Objective, our production by applying a reduce, we are committed to treating our employees reuse and recycle mindset. better than most companies. People first Page 15 Leading the change on healthy and sustainable buildings With a strong focus on fulfilling our vision of healthy and sustainable buildings, we believe that buildings of the future must be designed for people, for increased energy efficiency and with care for the environment. Page 16 LEADING THE CHANGE ON HEALTHY AND SUSTAINABLE BUILDINGS | Why healthy and sustainable buildings are needed Why healthy and sustainable buildings are needed With the rising environmental impact of cities and infrastructure, it is crucial that cities of the future are safe, inclusive, resilient and sustainable. OUR APPROACH each year, which means people are increas3.5 billion people half of humanity live in ingly living in energy inefficient housing that cities. This number is expected to increase poses a significant health risk. To mitigate this significantly as 5 billion people are projected to live in cities by 20303. With the expected 9.7gt challenge, we must ensure that the buildings we inhabit maximise health benefits for the In 2018, buildings growth of city populations, it is crucial that cituser while being energy efficient and leave a emitted 9.7 gigatonnes ies of the future are safe, inclusive, resilient and of CO2 globally6. minimal environmental footprint. sustainable. At the same time, solutions that ensure urban liveability, such as healthy and affordable housing, clean energy, transportation and infrastructure must support a reduction of the impact of cities on the environment and We need to create buildings that are both humans. Aligning the planning and design of sustainable and have good indoor environments buildings with these specifications is a key factor to ensure that future cities have long-lastif we are to address issues related to climate ing solutions for proper inhabitation and less change and people’s health. Both are most CO2 emissions, waste, air and soil pollutants. efficiently achieved through partnerships. Additionally, rapid urbanisation and densi­ David Briggs fication of living spaces calls for new and CEO, the VELUX Group innovative approaches to making cities and communities become sustainable. However, only 1 – 2% of old buildings are renovated Page 17 LEADING THE CHANGE ON HEALTHY AND SUSTAINABLE BUILDINGS | Why healthy and sustainable buildings are needed Sustainable buildings must be designed for people, for minimal For people Sustainable buildings must be designed and renovated with energy consumption and with consideration for the health and wellbeing of the people care for the environment. using them. This implies that buildings designed for optimal human comfort are those which are sufficiently daylit and allow for fresh air and an appropriate thermal environment all year round. DELIVERING ON OUR VISION To deliver on our vision of healthy and susTo lead the change towards sustainable buildtainable buildings, we in 2019 participated in For minimal energy consumption ings, it is necessary to have a clear definition partnerships, led research activities, conducted With buildings accounting for around 40% of the energy of what constitutes a sustainable building and experiments and facilitated collaborative usage4 we need to make a transition in the design and what design parameters a sustainable building forums with a specific focus on increasing renovation of buildings towards greater energy efficiency. should be assessed upon. We have developed sustainability in the built environment. Improving the energy efficiency of buildings can be achieved a new definition of a sustainable home that by using the design methods, digital technology and dynambuilds on quantifiable parameters within ic, automated building components that exist today without Did you know comfort, environment and energy known from If 2% of European homes were appropriately renovated limiting the inflow of daylight and fresh air. the Active House standard, existing building every year, the number of Europeans with respiratory illnesses caused by living in damp homes would be legislation and established external standards reduced by 25% by 2050. for sustainable buildings (e.g. DGNB, LEED). For the environment 90% Buildings are responsible for 36% of CO2 emissions5. SusOther building types than homes are to be tainable buildings are therefore those that have a low carbon included as the work develops. We believe that footprint (i.e. a low level of embodied carbon and life-time all buildings must share three characteristics emissions) and use upcycled or recycled materials where to be sustainable: they must be designed for Europeans spend up to 90% possible. The sustainable building can be based on principles of their time indoors people, for minimal energy consumption and of circularity to meet increasing expectations for recyclability with care for the environment. of materials at end of life. READ MORE Our definition of a healthy home Page 18 LEADING THE CHANGE ON HEALTHY AND SUSTAINABLE BUILDINGS | Activities Activities With a proactive approach to sharing best practices among important stakeholders at local, national and EU level – including policy-makers, architects, researchers, organisations and businesses – we take the lead in developing healthy living environments in which to live, play, work and learn. Page 19 LEADING THE CHANGE ON HEALTHY AND SUSTAINABLE BUILDINGS | Growing up in (un)healthy buildings Growing up in (un)healthy buildings H EALTH ENVIRON GY ER M EN E N T The fifth edition of the VELUX Healthy Homes Barometer was launched at the Healthy Buildings Day in Paris by our CEO David Briggs. The annual publication examines the state of European buildings and their impact on human health while investigating how they can be Healthy Homes improved to benefit people, society and the planet. Barometer The Healthy Homes Barometer 2019 turns its attention to some of the most vulnerable members of our society – our children. Children have the right to grow up in an environment that is good for their health and well-being. • 1 out of 3 European children under 15 live in unhealthy homes – that is 26 million children. • Children are 1.7 4.2 times more likely to report poor health depending on how many risk factors they are exposed to. 2019 Growing up in (un)healthy buildings Together with our accredited partner Rand • 1.7 million school days are lost due to absence Europe we therefore assessed the impact that linked to unhealthy living environments. our dwellings and classroom environments have on children7. And frankly, the findings The study also showed that the four biggest risk were concerning: factors for an unhealthy indoor environment are dampness, cold, darkness and excess noise. Risk factors Note that these building deficiencies are not mutually exclusive. Dwellings with several deficiencies are therefore counted more than once. Dampness Cold temperatures Darkness Excess noise 11.5 million children report living Almost 6 million report living in Around 4.2 million report living in Over 13 million report excessive noise with leaky roofs, damp walls or rot/ homes that cannot stay adequately houses without enough daylight. pollution from neighbours or traffic. mould in window frames or floors. warm. Page 20 LEADING THE CHANGE ON HEALTHY AND SUSTAINABLE BUILDINGS | Growing up in (un)healthy buildings The 2019 Barometer also explored the great Did you know? Improving indoor conditions can have a significant potential benefits that improved indoor con1/3 positive impact on the European economy. ditions in homes across Europe could have on productivity, and the economy: • Improving ventilation in European schools €308.5 Bn could lead to an increase of European GDP of more than €250 billion over the next 40 years. • Eradicating mold and dampness in all European homes could lead to an economic gain of €55 billion for the European economy over the next 40 years. Conclusion of the 2019 Healthy Homes 1 out of 3 ­European children live in Barometer ­unhealthy homes The conclusions of the Barometer make it clear that poor indoor living conditions can have serious consequences for children’s health in the short term and long term. Particularly for politicians and authorities, the report further pinpoints the urgent need for renovation of existing buildings to ensure the health and €55.7 Bn wellbeing of European populations while the Reducing exposure potential economic gain of around EUR 300 to mould and damp billion for the European community creates in homes an even deeper incentive to start renovating today. €252.8 Bn READ MORE Increasing ventilation in schools Healthy Homes Barometer 2019 LEADING THE CHANGE ON HEALTHY AND SUSTAINABLE BUILDINGS | Daylight Symposium and Healthy Buildings Day 2019 Daylight Symposium and Healthy Buildings Day 2019 Stakeholders in the building industry and the building research community discussed the latest knowledge on healthy buildings and shared best practices on how to integrate daylight and natural ventilation in the design of buildings. More than 700 scientists, architects, Topics discussed ­developers, urban planners, building owners, Daylight Symposium professional housebuilders and government • Importance of daylight representatives from North America, China in healthy and resilient buildings. and Europe met in Paris on 9 – 10 October to • Digital daylight building participate in the two well-established VELUX design tools. forums – the VELUX Daylight Symposium and Daylight Symposium: How do we ensure Healthy Buildings Day: How to make healthy • How to design with nature in mind. the Healthy Buildings Day. bright days and dark nights? buildings the new norm? 700 This was one of the questions discussed by Building design has significant influence on our Healthy Buildings Day • Value creation through user-­ The purpose of the two days was to share and the participants at the Daylight Symposium. health and well-being. Design and renovation centric design for people, discuss the latest knowledge on how daylight Held for the eighth time in 2019, VELUX of private homes, offices and schools were business and society. • Scalability of healthy and and fresh air contributes to healthier living Daylight Symposium is the only forum in therefore given special focus during the More than 700 people sustainable buildings. environments and how to design and build participated at the the world dedicated to exploring the role of Healthy Buildings Day. Participants discussed • Exploring how healthy healthier homes and buildings. two days. daylight in buildings, the link between light the latest knowledge and speakers presented buildings impact people. and good health, and how healthy building actual cases aligned with the latest learnings design is a cornerstone in sustainable cities. on healthy building design. Page 22 LEADING THE CHANGE ON HEALTHY AND SUSTAINABLE BUILDINGS | The VELUX Group partners with C40 in Copenhagen The VELUX Group partners with C40 in Copenhagen The C40 World Mayors Summit 2019 in Copenhagen gathered mayors and city stakeholders to build a strong global coalition based on a shared commitment to take radical and ambitious climate action at city level. The VELUX Group was a partner at the summit. Representing more than 700 million citizens, more liveable and resilient cities. In total, more mayors of the C40 cities are committed to tackthan 100 cities have now committed to deliver ling climate change and driving urban action that 1.5° climate action plans by 2020. reduces greenhouse gas emissions and climate risks, while increasing the health, well-being and C40 master class on better learning economic opportunities of their citizens. environments For the VELUX Group, C40 was a good opAccounting for over two-thirds of the world’s portunity to show the value of better learning energy consumption and more than 70% of environments in schools. The master class More than 100 cities have now global CO2 emissions8, it is safe to say that cities have an enormous impact on the climate. gathered C40 delegates, specifiers, researchers, building industry businesses and VELUX committed to deliver 1.5° climate specialists for a discussion about the positive action plans by 2020. At the C40 Summit, cities, businesses, academeffects of good indoor climate on children's ia and civil society showed their commitment learning abilities and relevant solutions to the to taking climate action by showcasing the inchallenge. novative solutions that contribute to healthier, Page 23 LEADING THE CHANGE ON HEALTHY AND SUSTAINABLE BUILDINGS | Sponsoring Women4Climate Tech Challenge Sponsoring Women4Climate Tech Challenge Did you know? According to C409, the organising body behind the challenge: Women4Climate Tech Challenge calls for women to design innovative and climate-focused solutions to support the 17% x16 climate resilience and sustainable development of cities. The VELUX Group is a proud sponsor of the second round which was launched at C40. The empowerment of women plays a critical We believe that diversity creates Women only represent 17% of employees, 4% of Only 14% of start-up investors are women, and software engineers and 1% of leadership positions in start-ups led by men receive over 16 times more role in ensuring sustainable development. Thus, better innovation processes and the science, technology, engineering and mathematfunding than those led by women. the purpose of this challenge is to inspire and ics (STEM) sector. empower young women to address some of better performing businesses. the major challenges facing the world today. We hope that this challenge will inspire women to come forward One category of the programme, healthy public and offer their ideas and solutions. buildings, is particularly relevant to the VELUX Group's agenda and we look forward to followIngrid Reumert ing all the participants towards the final. VP, Global Communications, Sustainability and Public Affairs, the VELUX Group In February 2020, an expert jury chose ten finalists among the applicants to present their solutions to the C40 mayors and the VELUX Group. Four winners will be selected and given the opportunity to pilot their solution in either Science Technology Engineering Mathematics S T E M Los Angeles, Tel Aviv-Yafo, Stockholm or Lisbon. Page 24 LEADING THE CHANGE ON HEALTHY AND SUSTAINABLE BUILDINGS | Urbantech accelerates the development of sustainable cities and buildings Urbantech accelerates the development of sustainable cities and buildings The owner of the VELUX Group, VKR Holding, is one of the partners of Urbantech, a Danish accelerator programme that facilitates collaboration between incumbent players in the building industry, such as the VELUX Group, and new, innovative start-ups. VKR Holding is one of the partners of Urthe sun; Moeco, which specialises in end-tobantech, a Danish accelerator programme. end IoT solutions for smart buildings and cities; The purpose of the collaboration is to learn and Airboxlab, which has developed a tool for how VKR Holding and the VELUX Group can monitoring of indoor air quality. collaborate with smaller, agile organisations to discover and explore concepts and prototypes The programme runs for three years and prothat can help accelerate the development of vides the VELUX Group with a chance to test The purpose of Urbantech is to learn sustainable buildings and cities. innovative concepts in our core business and inspire our internal innovation processes. how VELUX can collaborate with In 2019, VKR Holding/the VELUX Group smaller organisations to accelerate partnered with three start-ups as part of the programme: Next Energy Technologies, which the development of sustainable develops windows that generate energy from buildings and communities. Page 25 LEADING THE CHANGE ON HEALTHY AND SUSTAINABLE BUILDINGS | Energy Solutions network in the EU Energy Solutions network in the EU The VELUX Group is an active member of the Energy Solutions network. Energy Solutions is a cross-national, cross-party, cross-industry European parliamentary platform that works for systemic energy solutions that help to decarbonise the economy. The VELUX Group is an active member of In March 2019, Energy Solutions organised the Energy Solutions network. Founded in a high-level debate on the role of sectoral 2016, Energy Solutions is a cross-national, integration as an essential component of the cross-party, cross-industry European parliashift to a low-carbon economy in Europe titled mentary platform consisting of 15 corporate “Beyond the silos – the role of sector integramembers and members from parties in the tion for a carbon neutral EU economy”. Several European Parliament. The objective of the notable speakers, members of the parliament Energy Solutions network is to facilitate the and companies discussed how to efficiently dialogue between policy-makers, industry and integrate the European energy systems in the broader society with a view to promoting order to support the European Union becoming a holistic approach to energy regulation and carbon neutral by 2050. ultimately support systemic solutions that help to decarbonise the economy. The objective of the Energy Solutions Still today, the network collaborates across network is to support systemic solutions stakeholder groups to ensure that upcoming that help to decarbonise the economy. energy legislation and regulation on energy transition is undertaken in a holistic and integrated effort for the benefit of the European consumers. Buildings are crucial in this manner and the VELUX Group works to ensure that they are both energy efficient and healthy. Page 26 LEADING THE CHANGE ON HEALTHY AND SUSTAINABLE BUILDINGS | Partnering for healthy buildings, people and planet Partnering for healthy Winner of the ActiveHouse category, the spectacular Sasso Nero located in the buildings, people and Italian alps planet Since its founding in 2011, the Active House Alliance has been working with a holistic approach to healthy and sustainable buildings based on nine parameters within Comfort, Energy and Environment. The VELUX Group is a founding partner of the global network. In 2016, the Alliance introduced the Active In 2019, the Active House Alliance has: House label, a non-profit quality mark for the broader building market. Since then, the • Updated its strategy with the clear vision development of seven National Alliances have of being a non-profit association working helped to transverse the membership into a for “Healthy Buildings for People & Planet”. global community of partners who aim to scale solutions that contribute to more sustainable • Released the third version of contemporary cities and buildings. benchmarks that incorporate more building types in different climate zones, as well as We spend up to 90% of our time indoors Today, more than 150 Active Houses in 23 new-builds and retrofits. every day. We have truly become the indoor countries now showcase the principles and specifications in as diverse building types as generation. Based on our purpose to deliver single-family and multi-family homes, social better indoor environments, we do our very housing, offices, schools and even an airport. The Active House Alliance serves as an exbest every day to develop and deliver the ample of a global industry partnership under much-needed solutions. Sustainable Development Goal 17. Keith Riddle SVP Sales and Marketing, the VELUX Group Page 27 LEADING THE CHANGE ON HEALTHY AND SUSTAINABLE BUILDINGS | The first RenovActive home in Slovakia inaugurated The first RenovActive home in Slovakia inaugurated Recognising the potential to significantly improve the livelihoods of many Slovakian families, VELUX Slovakia demonstrated how to renovate energy efficiently, user-centrically and at an affordable price by applying the seven RenovActive principles. In Slovakia, there are about 950,000 family houses, many of which were built from the 1950s to the 1970s. About 20% of the houses are damp and one in six Slovaks report unsatisfactory housing conditions that can have a severe impact on their physical health and sense of wellbeing. Recognising the potential to significantly improve the livelihoods of many Slovakian The home after renovation families, VELUX Slovakia partnered with peer The home before renovation companies in the construction sector, the RenovActive • Extension of living space Slovak Green Building Council and the Slovak RenovActive is a methodology developed by • Better daylight conditions municipality of Sala to demonstrate that it is the VELUX Group and partners for healthy, • Efficient airing via the stack effect possible to renovate in a way that is energy affordable and scalable renovation of single-­ • Dynamic sun screening family homes. RenovActive is based on the • Hybrid ventilation efficient, user-centric and at an affordable Active House principles and includes the • Improved thermal envelope and heating system price by applying the seven Renov­Active following seven key parameters: • Stage by stage approach principles to a real-life renovation project. Page 28 LEADING THE CHANGE ON HEALTHY AND SUSTAINABLE BUILDINGS | The first RenovActive home in Slovakia inaugurated Together with our partners we have shown that is possible to renovate for human health The energy consumption was reduced by 80% while while taking care of the environment and the living space was increased by 53% at an affordable price. We hope to see the Renov­­Active approach spreading through the opensource platform. 80% Dagmar Plevačová General Manager, VELUX Slovakia and VELUX Czech Republic VELUX Czech wins CSR prize In November 2019, VELUX Czech Republic won The result is a refurbished, modern home with an improved indoor living environment and much more daylight and fresh air. 53% the TOP Responsible Company Award for the company’s sustainability efforts. VELUX Czech Republic was ranked first place as Leader in The design and construction principles of the Sustainable Business and Jumper of the Year RenovActive house in Šaľa are shared in a free at the Czech Sustainable Business Awards online guide to inspire and support similar 2019 organised by the Czech Parliament and the European Commission. renovation projects in Slovakia and neighbouring countries. The Hučko family has already VELUX Czech was awarded for their innovative way of combining our global strategy with a moved in and their health and well-being will local approach that supports market competbe measured independently by the Department itiveness, inspires institutions and the public while effectively involving employees – in the of Building Services at the Slovak University of end living up to our Model Company Objective. Technology on several key parameters. Page 29 LEADING THE CHANGE ON HEALTHY AND SUSTAINABLE BUILDINGS | Partnering for sustainable buildings Partnering This chapter has outlined a number of activcannot be solved by one company, thus we ities we undertake to support the transition look forward to continuing the collaboration for sustainable towards more sustainable buildings with better with existing and new partners in the years indoor environments. As buildings have a large to come. environmental footprint during their lifecycle buildings we believe that these activities are needed in order to solve the environmental challenges facing the world today. These challenges OUR CONTRIBUTION Sustainable development goals Our progress Through our goals and activities, we contribute to the following SDGs: 2018 WHAT WE SAID 2019 WHAT WE DID WHAT’S NEXT 3.4 By 2030, reduce by one third 11.1 By 2030, ensure access for all premature mortality from non-comto adequate, safe and affordable Take the lead in the developEngaged in partnerships and Continue our advocacy activities. municable diseases through prevenhousing and basic services and ment of healthy and sustaindialogues with stakeholders in tion and treatment and promote upgrade slums. able buildings by applying a the building industry, published mental health and well-being. holistic approach that balances the Healthy Homes Barometer, 17.16 Enhance the global partnerpeople’s health and quality of renovated a house according to 3.9 By 2030, substantially reduce ship for sustainable development, life with energy efficiency and the RenovActive Principles and the number of deaths and illnesses complemented by multi-stakeenvironmental protection. arranged conferences to share from hazardous chemicals and holder partnerships that mobilize best practices on sustainability in air, water and soil pollution and and share knowledge, expertise, the built environment. contamination. technology and financial resources, to support the achievement of the 7.3 By 2030, double the global sustainable development goals in rate of improvement in energy all countries, in particular developefficiency. ing countries. Page 30 Energy and climate The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change has issued critical warnings about the consequences of an average rise in temperature due to global emissions of carbon into the atmosphere. We take our responsibility by reducing our operational carbon footprint through energy optimisations, by transitioning to green electricity and by developing energy efficient products. Page 31 ENERGY AND CLIMATE | Reducing our carbon footprint Reducing our carbon footprint To address our responsibility in combatting climate change, we reached a 47% reduction in our carbon footprint in 2019. This brings us very close to our goal of halving our footprint from the 2007 baseline. OUR APPROACH ACTIVITIES Our efforts to reduce our energy consumption Excellent energy management reduces and our carbon footprint are governed by CO2 emissions the VELUX Energy Policy and carried out in In 2019, we implemented a new global energy two tracks in the VELUX Energy and Climate planning framework in order to strengthen Strategy: the local energy consumption review process 1. Continuous improvement of energy effiand boost the energy savings project portfolio ciency in facilities, machines and auxiliary at local and global levels. As part of the new processes. planning process, we introduced a new Energy 2. Transitioning to renewable energy sources, Screening Tool. This will support identificanotably biomass from waste, solar and tion of the most energy-intensive processes wind power. and thus indicate where we should focus our efforts to achieve the highest CO2 savings. To address our responsibility in combatting ­climate change, we reached a 47% reduction in our carbon footprint in 2019 compared to the 2007 baseline. Page 32 ENERGY AND CLIMATE | Reducing our carbon footprint Since 2007, we have pursued Taking energy management to the CO2 savings achieved in 2019 next level our goal to reduce the carbon The Danish VELUX factory Thyregod Byg­ footprint of our activities by ningsindustri (TBI) serves as a test case to 47% determine the critical energy uses in pro50%. From focused energy duction. Over the past five years, TBI has management to bioboilers and managed to decouple production growth from energy consumption and has realised energy In 2019, we achieved a 47% reduction in our carbon footprint LEDs, everybody helps to realise savings of 35% in the production of polyurecompared to the 2007 baseline thane windows. The project showcases best the goal. practices regarding organisation, monitoring, reporting and knowledge sharing throughout Jörn Neubert our organisation. SVP Supply, the VELUX Group Furthermore, we will enter into a partnership with a global energy saving consultancy company that will help us to further discover and The energy planning process and screening tool will form an important backbone in realising 28% optimise our processes to reduce our energy consumption. our ambitious targets for CO2 reduction now 22% 50% and beyond 2020. Improving energy efficiency at ­VELUX headquarters New bio-boiler improves energy In 2019, we increased A major renovation of the cooling and ventilathe share of renewable Our target remains a 50% efficiency in Hungary energy at our sites by tion system at the 17,000 m2 company headreduction by the end of 2020 The VELUX factory LKR-H in Hungary are 6% to 28% in total. quarters in Denmark has led to annual CO2 entirely heated by waste wood chips and sawsavings of 160 tons/year by reducing gas and dust from production. In 2019, the plant inelectricity consumption by more than 30%. stalled a new bio-boiler that improves energy efficiency and reduces emissions significantly. Implementation of variable frequency drives allow the boiler to adjust itself automatically at any time according to heat demand thereby reducing the energy consumption of the bio-boiler by 60%. Page 33 ENERGY AND CLIMATE | Reducing our carbon footprint VELUX carbon 47% footprint reduction 2019 Target We have managed to reduce our carbon footprint 34% 50% 2020 by 47% since 2007. 2017 30% 2014 2018 43% 2016 26% 2015 2007 29% 131,693 15% 2011 2012 2013 20% 13% 3% 2009 2019 2008 69,811 2% 2007 Baseline 2010 Annual carbon footprint (tons) Carbon footprint reduction (%) -5% Page 34 ENERGY AND CLIMATE | Reducing our carbon footprint Solar energy powers VELUX factory a neighbouring paper production plant which A three-pronged approach to reducing LED lighting saves CO2 at production sites The VELUX factories are in the process of implementing LED lighting in the USA will be distributed through the local district the carbon footprint in France as part of an effort to reduce the carbon footprint of production. The solar farm installed at the factory VELUX heating company. The transition from gas to By storing waste wood chips for bioboiler use Greenwood in 2015 continues to support our surplus heat is expected to save 660 tons of during the winter months and by optimising 280 goal of reducing our carbon footprint. In 2019, CO2 per year. the flow of hot water for heating, our factory Slovakia the solar farm delivered all the energy used to VKR-F in France has reduced its consumption power the plant and in turn helped to avoid In the Czech Republic, the factory BKR-CZ in of gas from 925 MWh in 2018 to 105 MWh in 260 over 1,300 tons of CO2 for the year. Vyskov has entered into a partnership with a 2019. This has led to VKR-F breaking its own Czech Republic local biogas plant to purchase the surplus heat record of lowest annual gas consumption ever. 85 Transition to renewable heating at factories generated from the plant’s power production. Additionally, the digital solution Netatmo was Hungary in the Czech Republic and Denmark By substituting biogas for fossil fuels in heatinstalled at VKR-F to automatically control and Several VELUX factories are preparing for the ing, the factory saved 82 tons CO2. In 2020, a optimise building temperature in a way that 57 transition to renewable energy for heating. larger share of heating needs will be met by contributed to the record-breaking result. USA In Denmark, the accessories factory GaaB in purchases from the biogas plant. tons CO2/year Skjern will begin receiving surplus heat from OUR CONTRIBUTION Sustainable development goals Our progress Through our goals and activities, we contribute to the 2018 WHAT WE SAID 2019 WHAT WE DID WHAT’S NEXT following SDGs: 7.3 By 2030, double the global rate of Continue to pursue the target of 50% CO2 Reduced our carbon footprint by 47% or Implement partnership with energy saving improvement in energy efficiency. reduction by 2020 compared to the 2007 65,846 tonnes since 2011. consultancy company to further identify baseline through energy-efficiency measures Increased the use of renewable energy to critical energy uses and potential saving 12.2 By 2030, achieve the sustainable manageand investments to replace fossil fuels with 28% in 2019 from 22% in 2018. measures at all production sites. ment and efficient use of natural resources. renewable energy sources. Launching new even more ambitious targets Implemented a global energy planning and knowledge sharing process to support and focusing on reducing our carbon footprint as 12.6 Encourage companies, especially large and part of our Sustainability Strategy 2030. boost local initiatives. transnational companies, to adopt sustainable practices and to integrate sustainability information into their reporting cycle footprint of production. Page 35 ENERGY AND CLIMATE | Pioneering sustainable products Pioneering sustainable products Developing products useful to society is part of the VELUX Group’s foundation as outlined in the Model Company Objective. Our windows and accessories are continuously improved to optimise the energy efficiency of buildings while allowing daylight and fresh air to enter the room from above. OUR APPROACH enhance healthy living through new product As stated in the Model Company Objective, features, reduce environmental footprints and creating products useful to society and for improve material circularity. healthy, sustainable and energy efficient buildings is the core purpose of the VELUX Group. Going forward, additional sustainability para­ We have been committed to fulfil this purpose meters will be an integrated part of our prodfor more than 75 years by offering a wide uct development along with quality and cost. product portfolio ranging from roof windows The strategy and additional layers of complexand skylights to a broad array of accessories ity will challenge us to consider a broad range that create better living environments with of topics – from material choices, to new ways daylight and fresh air through the roof. of manufacturing, to new features, to the recycling of our products – in the end securing Advancing our sustainable products strategy a pipeline of more sustainable products and a Now, we take our focus on product sustainacontinued commitment to the Model Company bility to the next level. In 2019, a new strategic Objective. Lastly, the new product strategy initiative was launched to further advance the feeds into our upcoming Sustainability VELUX way of working with sustainable prodStrategy 2030. ucts throughout the product life cycle. Running through 2021, the new strategy enables a holistic approach to creating products that Page 36 ENERGY AND CLIMATE | Pioneering sustainable products One of our most important strategic initiatives ACTIVITIES VELUX ACTIVE with Netatmo – A smart and is to define the VELUX way of working with Innovation for durability sustainable product In 2019, the VELUX Group introduced a new Smart-home technology is an important enabler sustainability in our product development. We want to build on our strong foundation of polymer spacer – called 4SG – that ensures the long service life of triple-glazing solutions of a healthy and sustainable building. VELUX ACTIVE, launched in 2018, helps to improve 98% knowledge and experience, be even bolder and in VELUX roof windows. 4SG replaces the indoor climate conditions and ensures a healthy Studies show that our professional customers challenge ourselves to develop new solutions that prior construction with steel spacer, desiccant living environment. The system operates VELUX have great trust in the and primary seal as increasing thickness in products in accordance with smart sensor measVELUX Group and our are ahead of the curve to increase our positive products. In fact, 98% three-layer panes was challenging the compaturements of CO2, humidity, temperature and live impact for people, communities and cities. ibility of this solution. The new 4SG polymer is local weather data. In 2019, new features such as of dealers and installers believe that the VELUX Group offers reliable also used in flat roof windows, including double-­ smart heat protection, Google Home integration products and products Tina Mayn Andersen glazings, to improve the capability to resist and grouped product control were added to creof high quality. SVP Products, the VELUX Group heat. The plan is to expand the use of 4SG to ate an even better solution. In total, the adoption more product lines in the coming years. of VELUX ACTIVE grew by 247% in 2019. OUR CONTRIBUTION Sustainable development goals Our progress Through our goals and activities, we contribute to the 2018 WHAT WE SAID 2019 WHAT WE DID WHAT’S NEXT following SDGs: 3.4 By 2030, reduce by one third premature Launch of new product strategy, with New product strategy launched, enhancing Continue work on sustainable product mortality from non-communicable diseases sustainability as a key focus area. focus on: development: through prevention and treatment and promote • Products for healthy living • Nurture and grow sustainability mindset mental health and well-being. and organisational capabilities in our • Product environmental footprint Products organisation 3.9 By 2030, substantially reduce the number • Circular materials • Introduce new design tools of deaths and illnesses from hazardous chemicals and air, water and soil pollution and contamination. Page 37 ENERGY AND CLIMATE | Pioneering sustainable products –318kg CO2 + 18kg CO2 Production + 144kg CO2 Raw materials -20kg CO2 -482kg CO2 VELUX roof windows can Use Recovery provide CO2 savings over the + product’s life cycle + We use life cycle thinking in the development VELUX roof windows can provide net CO2 of new products and the Life Cycle Assesssavings by letting in solar energy for heating in 22kg CO2 ment method (LCA) to quantify and document cold seasons, and that these savings over the Disposal the impact of our products from sourcing of lifetime of the window can fully compensate The CO2 calculation is performed for a GGL SK2068 window installed for 40 years in materials, daily use, disposal and recycling for the impacts from making the window in a home in Würzburg Germany including potential. The LCAs indicate for instance that the first place. replacement of glazing after 20 years. Page 38 People first As stated in the Model Company Objective, we are committed to treating our employees better than most companies. This commitment implies that we offer a safe and healthy working environment in which our employees thrive and have the opportunity to enhance their skills through a mix of professional challenges and personal development. Page 39 PEOPLE FIRST | Growing our people Growing our people At the VELUX Group, we believe that growing our people will ultimately grow our business. We strive to offer exciting career opportunities and a motivating work experience in a diverse and value-based culture. OUR APPROACH Their task was to elaborate each case including In order to grow our business we must grow its potential to become a driver of business. our people. In doing so, we focus on: The bootcamps and cross-organisational • Attracting the best people and giving new colnetworking enabled by the programme were leagues a thorough introduction to the VELUX very well received by the participants. Next Values and the Model Company Objective year, we will strengthen our efforts in talent through a company-wide onboarding program. development in order to build a strong talent • Ensuring that all people are given the opporpipeline. The new approach aims to accelerate tunity to develop based on clear expectadevelopment of outstanding talents, build a tions, continuous feedback and access to pool of potential successors to business-critical inspiring development activities. positions and ensure that the VELUX Values • Building best-in-class leadership and securing live on in the years to come. a strong pipeline of talented co-workers, accentuating and nurturing the people develTeam leader development in production oper role of our managers. In production, we implemented a programme for supervisors and team leaders called ACTIVITIES Training Within Industry. The hands-on training Talent development programme is based on the train-the-trainer In 2019, we completed the global two-year principle and aims at furthering the vocational talent programme “GROW with US” with taltraining of our production employees. The ented individuals from across the organisation. programme supports personal development As a final challenge, these individuals were and collaboration across production functions divided into cross-organisational teams who coupled with a focus on safe working condiwere given a real-life, strategically important tions, efficiency and reduced onboarding time case from the VELUX Innovation Challenge. for new colleagues. Page 40 PEOPLE FIRST | Growing our people Our company is driven forward by our passionate and dedicated colleagues who bring solutions for daylight and fresh air to our customers every day. Our continued success is dependent on our ability to attract, inspire, motivate and develop these talented employees so naturally it is our priority to offer a working environment in which our employees strive. Peter Bang Executive Director and CFO, the VELUX Group The programme is introduced at our factories VELUX Academy in Slovakia, the Czech Republic, Poland and The VELUX Group offers a wide range of global Denmark. The implementation continues with training programmes for office-based employmore factories joining the programme in 2020. ees through the VELUX Academy. The courses range from general competence development Leadership development to honing specific skills for specific functions. It takes great leadership to attract and develop The global offerings are supplemented by local talents and create a strong company culture training initiatives. of passion and performance. We offer our managers the Passion for Leadership course Employee Turnover consisting of face to face modules combined In 2019, the employee turnover rate was 10% as VELUX Innovation Challenge with virtual sessions. The course equips our compared to 12% in 2018. VELUX Innovation Challenge was a global challenge held in 2018 where all employees were invited to leaders with the knowledge and skills to manunleash their entrepreneurial spirit and submit their ideas innovating new business opportunities for the age and develop a specific entity or functional area of the business. 12% 10% VELUX Group. An impressive 2360 ideas were submitted by our employees. All employees could vote on their favourite idea and after several screening rounds by international manager teams six finalists presented for the grand jury which consisted of the entire VELUX Management Group. The winning idea was appointed a sponsor at highest level and tested for its market feasibility. The many In 2019, we launched an on-boarding proremaining ideas were screened by the VELUX Front-End Innovation department and assigned to the relegramme for new leaders entering the VELUX vant functions to assess their market potential. Group to support their workplace transition and to ensure the best possible start in the company. Page 41 PEOPLE FIRST | Growing our people People Pulse 2019 saw the implementation of a new tool Human and labour rights Forced labour and human Discrimination trafficking We consider all employees equal and provide equal that managers can use to track satisfaction The VELUX Group prohibits the use of forced labour opportunities and treatment. No employee may be We are committed to respecting human rights, and engagement among our employees. By including the principles set forth in the International and any form of human trafficking. We do not allow discriminated based on age, race, gender, colour, the use of physical punishment or other forms of religion, sexual orientation, etc. asking questions about the employees’ motiBill of Human Rights and the core labour convenphysical, sexual, psychological or verbal abuse as a tions of the International Labour Organization (ILO). vations, work life and working environment, method of control in the workplace. Working conditions This means avoiding infringement on the rights We ensure that working conditions, hours, rest pejob fit, preferred working methods, personal of individuals, groups and communities through Child labour riods, leave and wages are in accordance with local development and much more, the new tool our business activities and beyond. We set high The VELUX Group does not allow any form of child regulation and industry practice. standards for suppliers in relation to human rights, – called People Pulse – enables managers to labour. working conditions and non-discrimination policies. Employee Code of Conduct develop local initiatives aimed at increasing Freedom of association and The VELUX Code of Conduct governs decisions, We recognise the importance of maintaining and overall employee engagement and satisfaction collective bargaining actions and behaviours in the following areas: promo­ting fundamental human and labour rights, In the VELUX Group, we respect our employees’ on an ongoing basis. We initiated 48 People focusing on: rights to form, join or not join a labour union without • Human and labour rights Pulses in 2019. fear of reprisal, intimidation or harassment. Where • Safe and healthy working conditions employees are represented by a legally recognised • Corruption and business ethics union, we are committed to establishing a construc• Personal data and company information tive dialogue with its freely chosen representatives. • Climate and environment OUR CONTRIBUTION Sustainable development goals Our progress The actions in this chapter do not contribute directly 2018 WHAT WE SAID 2019 WHAT WE DID WHAT’S NEXT to the SDGs in our Energy and Climate Strategy 2020. We are reviewing our contribution to the SDGs as part of our Sustainability Strategy 2030. Implement a new managers programme. Implemented leadership programme for new Introduce leadership programme for managers entering the VELUX Group. advancement within the VELUX Group. Implement new employee survey tool to get ad Implemented People Pulse and initiated Continue to promote use of People hoc and local feedback to current issues. 48 surveys. Pulse throughout the organization. Conduct Global Employee Survey. Build strong talent pipeline. Worked on preparation of talent programme. Launch of new talent development programme. Page 42 PEOPLE FIRST | Diversity in the VELUX Group Diversity in the Female representation on the VELUX Board of Directors Age distribution for employees VELUX Group In 2019, the VELUX Board of Directors elected by the Age distribution for employees in the VELUX Group general meeting comprised four men and two women including contingent workers, trainees, temporary which is in line with the expectations by the Danish employees and students. Business Authority. 60 ≤ 6.9% We believe that diversity is a strength and that approach to appointment of managers. Addihaving a diverse workforce leads to better detionally, we are committed to improving the 50-59 21.2% cision making at all levels of the organisation. overall gender balance in our company. We continuously aim at achieving a better 40-49 29.2% gender balance at management level and by applying a structured annual evaluation tool 30-39 24.6% that ensures transparency and an objective 29 ≥ 18.1% Gender split in 2019 Top 100 Leaders are defined as Top 40, all General Managers in sales and production companies, and all 16% 19% 35% the people holding a senior International Position Evaluation position (IPE59+). Top 40 Leaders are defined as the VELUX Management Group and everyone reporting to a member of the VELUX Management Group. VELUX VELUX VELUX Top 100 Leaders Top 40 Leaders All employees Women Page 43 PEOPLE FIRST | A safe and healthy working environment A safe and healthy working environment A safe and healthy workplace is a top priority in the VELUX Group. We are determined to create and sustain a safe and healthy working environment and our vision is zero accidents and zero harm within the VELUX Group’s operations. OUR APPROACH • We always take time to ensure safety at work Our safety work is governed by the VELUX • We are all responsible for our own safety and Safety Policy and our safety vision is zero for the safety of our colleagues accidents and incidents. Safety is an integrated • We ensure that all employees are involved, part of our business activities, and all VELUX trained and competent in safety manufacturing and warehouse sites are ISO 45001 certified and monitored by an internal In 2019, the number of work-related accidents auditing system securing compliance and per one million working hours was 1.7 which continuous improvements. is our second-best result ever. This makes our accident frequency about five times lower Our Safety Policy sets out five guiding than the comparable industry benchmark. principles for working toward zero accidents: Even though 2019 marks our second-best year regarding accidents, it is still above our vision • Working safely is a condition of employment of zero accidents. We are therefore committed • Management is accountable for preventing to an unrelenting focus on continuous improveaccidents and for ensuring a safe and healthy ments to safeguard the health and safety of work environment our employees. Page 44 PEOPLE FIRST | A safe and healthy working environment 4.5 Lost time injuries Accident frequency per 1 million working hours since 2010 baseline. 2010 3.2 0.9 1.72019 2012 2014 The rate of absenteeism due to accidents per 1000 working hours in 2019 was 0.4 compared to our target of max. 0.2. 2.5 2.8 2.4 2.2 2017 2011 2013 2015 1.9 2016 We have reduced our accident frequency by 62% since 2010. 2.7 2018 While the trend is developing positively, we are ACTIVITIES deeply saddened by the loss of an employee in Reducing noise in the production 1. Taking leadership and demonstrate our German sales company. He was involved in In 2019, noise reduction at all VELUX procommitment a tragic fatal car accident while at work. Acciduction sites received special attention in our 2. Identify hazards and control risks 3. Define targets and develop programs dents always make us question where we can occupational health and safety efforts. This 4. Ensure a safe and healty system and improve, and this has attention at the highest was done in line with ISO45001 and national be well organised level in our company. We are therefore investiand EU legal requirements. Based on bench7 Golden Rules of safety 5. Ensure safety and health in machines, gating how to strengthen the safety requiremarking data aggregated from all our sites, we equipment and workplaces ments in our sales companies going f­ orward. focused on situations where the noise exposure The VELUX Group applies the 7 Golden Safety 6. Improve qualifications and develop Rules as an actionable management tool to competences to employees needed to be reduced. evaluate and improve health and safety on a 7. Invest in people and motivate by continuous basis. participation Page 45 PEOPLE FIRST | A safe and healthy working environment In the VELUX Group, we have a vision The analysis resulted in a detailed noise redesign. Employees will be involved in assessduction investment strategy for 2020 – 2021 ing risk and improving their workstations and to reach zero accidents. We believe in affected factories. The investments include trained local ergonomic supporters will be that all accidents have causes which reducing noise by substituting specific machine parts, installing noise cabinets and practical available to guide and support them in developing healthy ergonomic habits. can be eliminated through preventive initiatives such as workstation rotation. measures and a strong safety culture. Improved ergonomics “It is often a small change to the workplace that can make a big difference for the employAll VELUX manufac­ turing and warehouse In 2019, we started a new programme called ee. We expect the increased focus on ergosites are ISO 45001 Kim Jonas certified and monitored Senior Manager, Global Health, Safety, Better Workplace Ergonomics. The programme nomics to pay off in terms of improved health, by an internal auditing Environment, Energy & Climate, the VELUX Group is employee-centered and includes ergonomfewer injuries, less absence and increased system securing compliance and continuous ic risk assessments, multiple target group productivity , says Agata Gandecka-Krupska, improvements. trainings, action planning for musculoskeletal Global Occupational Health and Environment disorder prevention and enhanced workplace manager in the VELUX Group. OUR CONTRIBUTION Sustainable development goals Our progress Through our goals and activities, we contribute to the 2018 WHAT WE SAID 2019 WHAT WE DID WHAT’S NEXT following SDGs: 12.6 Encourage companies, especially large Reach zero accidents and fulfil target of less Reduced our accident frequency to 1.7 per one Strengthen our focus on continuous improveand transnational companies, to adopt sustainthan one accident per one million working million working hours – a 62% reduction since ments to reduce our accident frequency and able practices and to integrate sustainability hours to earn the World Class Safety Label. 2010. earn the World Class Safety Label. information into their reporting cycle. Special focus on ergonomics and noise as an Prepared and started implementing new Improve knowledge on accidents and our integrated part of health and safety work. ergonomics and noise standards as part of health and safety efforts by consolidating workplace risk assessment and mitigation. aspects of ergonomics, noise and stress in our workplace risk assessment and mitigation portfolio. Page 46 PEOPLE FIRST | The Employee Foundation makes a difference The Employee Foundation makes a difference The Employee Foundation of the VKR Group was established in 1991 and helps current and former employees and their immediate families. OUR APPROACH ACTIONS The Employee Foundation has three main Poland: Help for medical treatment objectives: Rafał Izydorek, working at our factory NB Polska in Gniezno, Poland, has a 4-year-old 1. To support employees and their immediate daughter, Zosia, with a serious eye defect. Defamilies, typically in the event of unforespite several surgeries, the little girl will need seen situations and for higher education of very strong glasses as well as contact lenses. employees’ children. The family received help to cover the costs of 2. To support non-profit activities geographispecialist consultations, contact lenses, reading cally close to VKR Group companies. glasses, eye drops, etc. 3. To present the Villum Kann Rasmussen Award in recognition of outstanding achievements by VKR Group employees. Page 47 PEOPLE FIRST | The Employee Foundation makes a difference 2.1 mio. DKK 9 mio. DKK in total The donations from the Employee Foundation in 2019 • A total of DKK 9,031,958 to employThe Employee Foundation of the VKR ees, their families and non-profit Group will continue its grants and 6.9 mio. community projects close to the VKR intends to pursue even more initiatives Group’s companies worldwide. that can make a positive difference • 372 grants totalling DKK 6,944,567 to to employees, their families and local current and retired employees in need communities. of assistance in emergency or disadDKK vantaged circumstances and to their children’s higher education or training. • 149 grants totalling DKK 2,087,391 were made to support non-profit projects geographically. Page 48 PEOPLE FIRST | The Employee Foundation makes a difference The Employee Foundation of the VKR Group Promoting healthy indoor climate USA: University scholarship for VELUX employees globally Brooke Haynie received a scholarship to concan make a positive difference for many In 2019, all 17,000 employees in the VKR tinue her studies in Business Administration at employees and their families in a difficult Group’s companies received a climate card from the Employee Foundation. The card measures the Lander University in South Carolina. Brooke is the daughter of Mike Haynie, employed at situation or period. Our main purpose is to room temperature and humidity and serves as VELUX Greenwood, USA. support current and former employees in a reminder to ventilate rooms regularly. The campaign for a healthy indoor climate is part of “We are very grateful and thankful to work for an organisation that really cares about the welltimes of hardship, and non-profit activities the Employee Foundation’s intent to encourage being of their employees,” says Mike Haynie, production supervisor, VELUX Greenwood. close the VKR Group companies. employees to take proactive care of themselves and their families. Michel Langrand Chairman of the Board, Employee Foundation of the VKR Group Develop strategy to improve employees' Granted DKK 9,031,958 and Continue to support employees, knowledge of the Employee Foundation continued strategy and loosened their families and non-profit and loosen application restrictions application restrictions community projects 2018 2019 2020 Page 49 Towards zero waste Increasing amounts of waste and waste materials are putting growing pressure on the environment and our cities and pose a significant risk to human health and wellbeing10. Our vision is to achieve zero waste in our production and from our products by applying a reduce, reuse and recycle mindset. Page 50 TOWARDS ZERO WASTE | Eliminating production waste Eliminating production waste Waste in the VELUX Group mainly originates from our window and accessories production at our factory or warehouse sites. We give constant priority to minimising our generation of waste materials by applying a reduce, reuse and recycle mindset. OUR APPROACH In our products: Our focus on high material efficiency and • Offer products with an expected service life minimum waste is governed by the VELUX of at least 40 years. Environmental Policy. In order to achieve our • Offer backwards compatible products for vision of zero waste, we continuously work to: easy upgrade and replacement of parts such as glazings, electronics and sun screening. In our production: • Take a circular approach to product develop• Improve material efficiency by optimisment by experimenting with materials and ing production processes and use of raw design principles that prolong lifetime and materials. enable recycling. • Increase the use of recycled materials, i.e. recycled wood, glass, aluminum, PU, PVC and composites. • Maintain ISO 14001:2015 certification at all VELUX production sites by carrying out waste reduction and material optimisation initiatives on an ongoing basis. • Prioritise global waste reduction initiatives with focus on knowledge-sharing of best practices to increase positive impact. Page 51 TOWARDS ZERO WASTE | Eliminating production waste Our factories are masters of continuous improvements. That also goes for optimising 8% Germany material efficiency and minimising waste. Reduction of waste is part of our production strategy, and the results achieved by our 10% Hungary production teams prove that sustainable production and good business go hand in hand. 9.5% France Jörn Neubert SVP Supply, the VELUX Group 96.9% of glass waste at VELUX ACTIVITIES Global focus on minimising waste in pane In Germany, the factory is engaged in a process on reducing waste of laminated glass which factories is recycled. production is expected to lead to an 8% reduction in Across the European VELUX factories, recent laminated glass waste. The project is expected Less waste to landfill years have seen an increased focus on reducing to end in Q1 2020. Germany also experimented A large part of the paper, textile and wood that were glass waste in pane production. The factories with a new butyl sealant which led to a 40% previously sent to the landfill at the VELUX factory have identified and analysed the major causes reduction of internal sealant waste. in Hungary is now collected and used as fuel at a local cement plant. of glass waste and implemented different solutions to minimise waste. In France, different measures have reduced Recycling of PVC The PVC profiles for VELUX flat roof windows are glass waste from 12.5% to 9.5%. Among other supplied by an external partner. After processing, In Hungary, the pane factory has reduced initiatives, the glass cutting process was optithe VELUX factory in Slovakia returns the PVC waste such as cut-offs, chips and dust to the sup­ waste in the laminated glass cutting process mised and residual pieces of the jumbo sheets plier in order to recycle it into new PVC profiles. by 10% by implementing a wide range of were used for smaller pane sizes. Reducing waste of PU initiatives, e.g. cooperation with glass suppliers By optimising the ventilation of moulds used to cast on glass quality, optimisation of the glass The positive results of the different pane experthe frame and sash of polyurethane windows, the cutting process combined with training of iments have led to a joint target of reducing waste was reduced by approximately 30% at our production site in Slovakia. machine operators and proactive maintenance glass waste by 8% in 2019 across all pane of machines. factories in Europe. Page 52 TOWARDS ZERO WASTE | Eliminating production waste Eliminating waste in the VELUX Group 74% In 2019, 97% of our production of the waste from our production processes was recycled waste was repurposed In 2019, 97% of the waste from our production was recycled or reused for other purposes such as biobased heating which 23% brings us very close to achieving our target of zero waste. was reused for heating 2% was sent to landfill 1% was treated as hazardous waste Page 53 TOWARDS ZERO WASTE | Eliminating production waste Discovering that waste from the pane Identifying waste streams at After discovering that waste from the pane VELUX Greenwood production made out 20% of the total landfill production made out 20% of the total In 2019, the VELUX factory in Greenwood, waste due to non-existing recycling systems landfill waste due to non-existing South Carolina initiated a project to reduce its waste going to the landfill. By reviewing all the VELUX Greenwood partnered with a third-party vendor to recycle the glass waste. The first recycling systems the factory partnered factory’s waste streams the team identified the trials were run in December 2019 with great with a third-party vendor to recycle the processes where materials hardest to recycle were discharged and sent to the landfill. success and the project is expected to eliminate glass waste going to the landfill at VELUX glass waste Greenwood. OUR CONTRIBUTION Sustainable development goals Our progress Through our goals and activities, we contribute to the 2018 WHAT WE SAID 2019 WHAT WE DID WHAT’S NEXT following SDGs: 12.2 By 2030, achieve the sustainable manageAspire to reach zero waste in our production 97% of production waste was recycled or New ambitions and initiatives to eliminate ment and efficient use of natural resources. and products through reduction, reuse and reused for heating. waste in Sustainability Strategy 2030. recycling. 12.5 By 2030, substantially reduce waste Transition to ISO 14001:2015 at all VELUX All factories ISO 14001:2015 certified. Continue to uphold ISO certification. generation through prevention, reduction, production sites in Europe. recycling and reuse. Page 54 Responsible sourcing Where and how we source raw materials and services can have significant impacts on the environment, the health and safety of employees, customers and the communities affected by our sourcing activities. To minimise the risk of negative impacts through our sourcing, we set high requirements for ourselves and our suppliers. Page 55 RESPONSIBLE SOURCING | Responsible business in the supply chain Responsible business in the supply chain The VELUX Group requires our suppliers to share our commitment to conducting responsible behavior in all aspects of operations. OUR APPROACH acceptable manner, the VELUX Group reserves Our approach to responsible sourcing and our the right to bring the cooperation with the expectations to suppliers are described in two supplier in question to an end. In 2019, it documents: was not necessary to terminate any supplier relationships due to non-compliance with our The VELUX Code of Conduct for Suppliers Code of Conduct. VELUX Restricted Substances Management Standard (VRSMS) Direct and indirect suppliers We distinguish between two types of suppliers The VELUX Group requires our suppliers to direct and indirect. Direct suppliers are those share our commitment to conducting responsithat deliver raw materials and components ble behavior in all aspects of their operations. directly for use in VELUX products. We report We reserve the right to monitor and audit, as on compliance with our Code of Conduct for appropriate, our suppliers’ sub-contractors 666 direct vendors. Each vendor may have one to assess their compliance with the VELUX or more subsidiaries which are also covered by Group’s Code of Conduct for suppliers. If the Code of Conduct. requested improvements do not progress in an Page 56 RESPONSIBLE SOURCING | Responsible business in the supply chain Moving forward, we set ourselves an ambitious Wood What does our VELUX Code of Conduct for target to ensure compliance with the VELUX Suppliers cover? Code of Conduct among an extended group of Glass Our Code of Conduct for Suppliers is based on indirect suppliers. the Model Company Objective, the ten principles of the UN Global Compact, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the core CODE OF CONDUCT FOR SUPPLIERS labour conventions of the International Labour Direct suppliers Organisation, the Restriction of Hazardous SubSteel, metals stances Directive and Registration, Evaluation, As of 2019, 99.5% of the VELUX direct supand hardware Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals pliers have signed and stated their compliance regulation. Code of with the VELUX Code of Conduct. The reIt covers the following topics: maining 0.5% is due to new suppliers entering • Climate and environment as contracts expire, leaving a short period of • Human rights and working conditions • Health and safety • Anti-corruption non-compliance in the onboarding phase of new suppliers. Conduct for Suppliers • Information and data usage and storage In 2019 we conducted 87 audits of direct suppliers and found zero cases of non-compliIndirect suppliers e.g. provide capital equipance with our Code of Conduct for Suppliers. ment, logistics, IT, goods and services not With the integration of Wasco, Jet and Vitral directly related to production. This section into VELUX Commercial we are investigating covers compliance with our overall top 100 the feasibility of setting compliance targets for indirect suppliers as they account for almost suppliers to this division specifically. half of our total expenditure on non-product Marketing and related services. communication Facilities & material handling equipment Packaging DIRECT SUPPLIERS INDIRECT SUPPLIERS Logistics Information technology (IT) Travel Page 57 RESPONSIBLE SOURCING | Responsible business in the supply chain Indirect suppliers to analyse our expansive indirect supplier base In 2019, 67% of the top 100 indirect suppliers and identify suppliers with a higher risk of VELUX Restricted Substance Management Standard (VRSMS) had signed the VELUX Code of Conduct. non-compliance. Since 2018, hazardous substances have • REACH As a safety measure, VELUX producStarting in 2020, our Non-Product Related Purbeen managed by the VELUX Restricted • RoHS Directive tion sites hold ISO 14001 certification, Substance Management Standard that • Persistent Organic Pollutant Regulation review new chemicals and materials and chasing will be working on ambitious initiatives VELUX RESTRICTED HAZARDOUS applies to all direct suppliers to VELUX • Packaging and Packaging Waste continuously screen those already in use. to increase the compliance rate for indirect supSUBSTANCES MANAGEMENT STANDARD production sites in Europe. VRSMS is Directive Safety data sheets are reviewed to ensure based on, but not limited to the following • Montreal Protocol on Substances that that chemical substances do not exceed pliers and pursue an ambitious target to confirm As of 2019, 88% of VELUX direct suppliers legislation: Deplete the Ozone Layer established safe limits in our production compliance with the VELUX Code of Conduct have signed the VRSMS. Going forward, the • Biocidal Product Regulation Activities lines and products. for the top 100 suppliers in ten purchasing we aim for 95% compliance to signing requirecategories. As a first step on this journey, we ments in 2020 and 99% in 2021. engaged with an e-commerce payment supplier OUR CONTRIBUTION Sustainable development goals Our progress Through our goals and activities, we contribute 2018 WHAT WE SAID 2019 WHAT WE DID WHAT’S NEXT to the following SDGs: 12.4 Responsible management Direct Work towards 100% sign-off to the VELUX 99.5% sign-off among direct suppliers. The Continue to strive towards 100% sign-off ofchemicals and waste. suppliers Code of Conduct. remaining 0.5% is due to suppliers exiting compliance and entering, creating a short period of 12.6 Encourage companies, non-compliance. especially large and transnational Work towards 100% sign-off to VRSMS Achieved 88% sign-off Ensure compliance in 2020 for 95% and companies, to adopt sustainable among direct suppliers to European sites 99 % in 2021 practices and to integrate sustain­ ability information into their Preparation of global database with all Implemented global database reporting cycle. substances used in production Indirect Focused effort towards reaching compliance 67% sign-off among top 100 indirect suppliers Continue effort to reach compliance among suppliers among top 100 indirect suppliers. Exploring pathways to expand com­pliance for top extended range of suppliers top 100 indirect suppliers in ten categories. Page 58 RESPONSIBLE SOURCING | Sourcing of certified wood Sourcing of certified wood Since wood is a primary material in most VELUX roof windows, we have a direct obligation to ensure that wood sourcing for our production does not have negative consequences for the environment and forest biodiversity. APPROACH We are on a journey that has so far allowed us Our commitment to working responsibly to incrementally increase our sourcing of cerwith natural resources is set forward in our tified wood while ensuring that the remaining Environmental Policy. The policy stipulates wood supply comes from tightly controlled that we should always seek to minimise our sources. Our goal is now to reach 100% environmental footprint through responsible certified wood in Europe by end of 2021 by sourcing of natural resources and efficient use intensifying the certification process with the of raw materials. suppliers accounting for the remaining 0.4%. Purchasing wood certified as sustainable by ACTIVITIES the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC®) and Turning century-old wood into new roof the Programme for the Endorsement of Forest windows Certification (PEFC®) enables us to fulfill this In 2018, we launched our first roof window commitment. made of reclaimed wood in the Netherlands. In 2019, we saw an increased interest in the In 2019, 99.6% of the wood used for VELUX reclaimed wood window and the window type roof windows in Europe was sourced from certiis now part of our standard product portfolio fied sustainable forests. The remaining 0.4% was in the Netherlands. sourced as controlled wood according to FSC. Page 59 RESPONSIBLE SOURCING | Sourcing of certified wood Certified wood in the VELUX Group Result for 2019 In 2019, 55.7% of our European wood was PEFC certified and 43.9% was FSC certified. The remaining 0.4% was sourced as In total, 99.6% of the wood used for VELUX roof windows in Europe was sourced from certified sustainable forests. controlled wood according to FSC. 0.4% Controlled 99.6% 55.7% PEFC of our wood in Europe is certified 43.9% FSC Closing in on our goal We have incrementally increased our amount of certified Why use certified wood? wood over the years. We aim to achieve 100% in 2020 Distribution of or 2021. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change concludes that reducing deforestation 99.6% is the most efficient way to combat climate wood certification change as trees enable carbon storage in their trunks. In the long term, a sustainable forest man98% 99.5% 99.5% 100% agement strategy aimed at maintaining or 96% increasing forest carbon stocks while producing a sustained yield of timber, fibre or bioenergy will generate the largest climate change mitigation benefit. By using FSC or PEFC certified wood, we ensure that trees harvested for our production are replanted, biodiversity is safeguarded and that the rights of local communities in forested areas are respected. “Controlled wood” means that the origin of the wood is known and that it comes from non-controversial and legal sources. 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020-2021 Page 60 RESPONSIBLE SOURCING | Sourcing of certified wood One experiment is better than 1000 Hungarian factory plants trees to combat ­expert views climate change Facts about the VELUX Group and wood In 1995 the VELUX logistics centre in In 2019, employees at our Hungarian factory • Wood for European products is sourced Denmark was built entirely of wood to test LKR-H initiated a local tree planting project from European, Baltic, Russian and American forests. the long-term durability of untreated wood with the aim of having planted 2020 trees in • We primarily use Scots Pine (Pinus Sylexposed to the damp Danish climate. 25 years 2020 to help combat climate change. LKR-H vestris) for wooden windows and Norway later, the building stands as good as new – with more than a thousand employees – has Spruce (Picea Abies) for poly­urethane windows. thanks to high-quality sustainable wood and donated one tree per colleague which can be • All VELUX factories in Europe are certified innovative construction principles. planted in the employees’ own garden or in the according to FSC and/or PEFC. garden of a relative. Remaining trees and trees • All VELUX roof windows produced in Europe  that could not be planted in private gardens for the European market fulfil the requirements of the EU Timber Regulation. are donated for planting in the surrounding • The VELUX Group has been a member towns. LKR-H colleagues managed to plant of FSC Denmark and FSC International since around 1000 trees in 2019 and their efforts 2016. will continue in 2020. OUR CONTRIBUTION Sustainable development goals Our progress Through our goals and activities, we contribute to the 2018 WHAT WE SAID 2019 WHAT WE DID WHAT’S NEXT following SDGs: 12.2 Sustainable management and efficient Maintain or improve the level of certified Sourced 99.6% certified wood. Source 100% certified wood by end of 2021 use of natural resources. wood in our roof window products available in Europe. in Europe. 12.6 Encourage companies Initiated intensified certification process with Achieve 100% certified wood by end of 2021 to adopt sustainable business practices and remaining 0.4% ‘controlled wood’ suppliers. in Europe. sustainability reporting. Carried out 48 internal and ten third party Continue to certification audits to maintain wood certification audits. sustainable sourcing principle and quality. Page 61 RESPONSIBLE SOURCING | Fair competition, tax and anti-corruption Fair competition, tax also issues sub-policies to the Competition Law employees in our Direct Purchasing, Indirect Compliance Policy when necessary. Purchasing and Public Affairs departments are now required to have completed the training and anti-corruption Tax The VELUX Group acts with integrity and at least every second year. In 2019, 89% of our employees in these groups completed the Building on our obli­ gation as a responsible transparency in tax matters. Our approach is training. Going forward, new employee groups company and the Model guided by VELUX Tax Guidelines and the Group will be included according to need. Building on our obligation as a responsible company and the Company Objective, we recognize our responsiPolicy, which applies to employees as well as Model Company Objective, we recognise our responsibility consultants and advisors involved in tax issues. A whistleblower programme was launched in bility to establish strong governance mechanisms to establish strong governance mechanisms that ensure fair 2018. Any criminal or illegal activities can be that ensure fair compe­ tition, minimized risk competition, minimised risk of corruption and true payment We commit to respecting both the wording reported anonymously through the whistleof corruption and true and spirit of tax legislation and we are comblower system. In 2019, zero incidents were payment of taxes. of taxes. mitted to properly reflect our commercial and reported through the whistleblower system. organizational reality in the tax we pay. We do not engage in artificial non-business driven transactions or business structures solely for Fair competition adhere to international and national regulations the purpose of reducing tax. The competition programme includes e.g.: The VELUX Group Legal Policy and the VELUX and to prevent any form of anti-competitive • Information and training on antitrust and Group Competition Law Compliance Policy laid behaviour. Our leading position in the market Our co-operation and communication with tax competition law. down by our owner, VKR Holding A/S describe makes this programme critical to our business. authorities is timely, honest and appropriate. • Guidelines, procedures and instructions on competition law issues. our approach to customers and competitors • Compliance law reviews by our parent and also address our approach to mergers, The Group General Counsel is responsible Anti-corruption company’s Group General Counsel and sup­ acquisitions and other relevant cases. All for monitoring and providing guidance on The VELUX Group applies a zero-tolerance porting team (hereafter referred to as the “Group General Counsel”). general managers sign a declaration annually potential competition law issues in relation to approach to corruption. Our Group Anti-Cor• Legal due diligence in connection with all to confirm that all necessary measures to the business activities of the VELUX Group. A ruption Policy guides employees in their mergers and acquisitions. secure full compliance with competition laws specialised team of counselors, headed by the everyday work. The policy requires manage• Approval of essential trade documents by the Group General Counsel. applicable to the VELUX Group have been Group General Counsel, advises on competiment to ensure that bribery does not occur, to duly implemented. For example, the measures tion law matters on an ongoing basis and the implement local guidelines for receipt of gifts can include that all relevant staff have been team conducts regular compliance reviews. and entertainment, and to avoid facilitation informed of all requirements regarding compeFurthermore, the team trains general managers, payment. tition/anti-trust law. sales managers and other relevant employees of the VELUX Group and informs them of A new process started in 2019 takes a riskFurthermore, the VELUX Group runs a relevant changes to competition law in order based approach to expanding our anti-corrupcomprehensive competition law compliance to ensure compliance with the VELUX Group tion e-learning to several relevant employee programme to ensure that all our companies Competition Law Compliance Policy. The team groups. Besides the VELUX Top 100, all Page 62 TOWARDS A SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY 2030 Towards a Sustainability Strategy 2030 As the world faces many pressing global challenges there is no question that customers of today are demanding products sourced, manufactured and sold responsibly – and quite fairly so. Businesses have the scale and solutions which can help to answer these challenges and must now step up and take their responsibility. We must ensure that sustainability and responsibility are more than buzzwords. Our present Energy and Climate Strategy enters its final year in 2020 and we expect to achieve our targets. The next step is the development of a new sustainability strategy running towards 2030. This strategy broadens our scope from the current focus to encompass our entire business. The Sustainability Strategy 2030 will to an even higher degree use the UN Sustainable Development Goals framework to strategically assess where and how we must focus our efforts to deliver our share in terms of sustainable development. Not least, the Sustainability Strategy 2030 will underpin our commitment to the Model Company Objective in the years to come. Page 63 Reference table Reporting principles 1 The Global Risks Report 2019, 14th Edition, World Economic Governance • Newly acquired business units that form VELUX Management Standard is consolidated in our internal Forum Corporate social responsibility and sustainability in the Commercial. This business area is estimated to be purchasing portal where all signages are registered. VELUX Group is governed by the VELUX Management roughly 10% of the VELUX Group’s total carbon The data was collected with the help of our Purchasing 2 IPCC, 2018 Group. Targets in the Energy and Climate Strategy footprint. department and our Supplier Quality department. 3 UN (n.d.) 2020 are anchored in the specific functions who are responsible for implementing, following up and reportWaste The data on sourcing of sustainable wood originates 4 European Commission, 2019 ing their progress at least annually in connection with The environmental data in the report was collected, from consolidated internal SAP registrations that are the annual sustainability reporting. compiled and validated by the VELUX Group’s HS&E subject to FSC and PEFC audits. FSC and PEFC Chain 5 European Commission, 2019 of Custody registrations are held for all purchases of function. 6 Global Alliance for Buildings and Construction, 2019 Collecting and processing data wood for the European factories and is managed by our The data is collected and compiled by the internal Sustainable products Logistics department. 7 The research used in the 2019 Barometer was compiled by Sustainability department according to an annual Information on sustainable products was gathered RAND Europe using survey data and data from EU SILC and reporting procedure. Using a combination of interthrough interviews with key subject matter experts Fair competition, tax and anti-corruption EUROSTAT as well as a rapid evidence assessment (REA), views, templates and various other data collection directly involved with the either the development, Signage of annual declaration on fair competition is statistical analysis and economic modelling. The underlying methodologies the data was processed and consoliimplementation and/or execution of the Product based on the number of general managers who signed data consisted of anonymised results for more than 100,000 dated in the report covering the calendar year 2019. Strategy 2019 – 2021. the declaration. The declarations were collected by individual households and 260,000 adults (16+ years). The report uses the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Legal Affairs in early 2019, declaring no breaches to Reporting principles for defining content as a guideline Health and safety competition law had occurred during the year. Data 8 C40, 2019 to determine the material topics of this report. on anti-corruption e-learning comes from completed The health and safety data in the report was collected, 9 C40, 2019 compiled and validated by the VELUX Group’s HS&E registrations in the e-learning software. Information on Leading the Change function. taxation is derived from the Global Accounting and Tax 10 UN Environment, (n.d.) The section on Leading the Change was developed department. through interviews and templates completed by key People internal stakeholders directly involved in the planning Information on people attraction and development and THE VELUX Foundations and execution of events, research and advocacy activdiversity was collected and processed by the VELUX Information on THE VELUX FOUNDATIONS was ities. Key stakeholders included personnel in the BuildGroup’s global HR function by using interviews and collected through the FOUNDATIONS’ communication ing, Design and Performance department, Daylight, templates for exchange of information. department. Energy and Indoor department, the Communication, Sustainability and Public Affairs department, relevant Diversity The Importance of Materiality sales companies and our Products organisation. Top 100 Leaders are defined as Top 40, all General Materiality assessments are a valuable tool for Managers in sales and production companies, and discovering and communicating the most materiEnergy and climate all the people holding a senior International Position al sustainability risks and potential impact of our The environmental data in the report was collected, Evaluation position (IPE59+). business and products. Additionally, a materiality compiled and validated by the VELUX Group’s HS&E assessment provides an adequate understanding of function. The CO2 reduction in scope for our 2020 Top 40 Leaders are defined as the VELUX Managethe topics important to our stakeholders. In 2016, our Photographers target includes CO2 emissions related to the VELUX Energy and Climate Strategy 2020 was supplemented ment Group and everyone reporting to a member of the Group’s own operational activities, in accordance with VELUX Management Group. by a materiality assessment outlined in our Corporate Adam Mørk the Green House Gas protocol (GHG scope I and II). Social Responsibility Report 2016. This assessment Christian Geisnæs Employee Foundation provides a complete picture of the material topics that The activities included are: The data was collected and processed by the Employee have significant influence on stakeholder decisions Jesper Westley as well as compelling economic, environmental and • Direct and indirect emissions from Production Foundation. The figures are based on financial registraOliver Jaist Com­panies, incl. logistic/warehouses tions also used in the annual report of the foundation, societal impacts by and on our company. We are and hence subject to financial audits. revising our materiality assessment and our approach • Direct and indirect emissions from sales companies to conducting it as part of the VELUX Sustainability Sarah Bastin • Direct and indirect emissions from company cars Strategy 2030. STAMERS KONTOR Responsible sourcing • CO2 from extraction of used fuel/energy (e.g. electricity, Data on supplier signatures to our Code of Conduct Søren Solkær gas, oil and company flight travel) (GHG scope III) for Suppliers and VELUX Restricted Substances Page 64
