BENS ELECTRONICS SERVICES Communications on Progress 2019/2020 Contents Statement of Commitment……………………………………3 About Us……………………………………………………………………..….4 Human Rights………………………………..……………………………5 Labour Practices………………………………..……………………….8 Response to COVID-19…………………………..………………….11 Environment………………………………..……………………………….13 Anti-Corruption………………………………..………………………….16 -2Statement of Commitment Bens Electronics Limited has been a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact since January 2017 and we have pleasure in conveying our Third Communication on Progress Report. Being a signatory to the UN Global Compact enables us to demonstrate to all of our stakeholders our commitment to be a sustainable business so that we can continue to be a trusted and respected telecoms solutions provider in the eyes of our employees, clients and other stakeholders. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations amidst the COVID19 Pandemic. At Bens Electronics, we strive to be the best in our industry by investing and using our commitment to the UN Global Compact, and associated global frameworks, to help shape our approach to service provision. Our activity is aligned with and supports the UN Sustainable Development Goals, focusing on those areas where we can make the greatest contribution. We believe that active dialogue with our people, our clients, our peers, partners and beyond enriches our understanding of our responsibilities. In light of this, we are duly submitting our Communication on Progress (COP) for the year 2020. Our commitment also reiterates that Bens Electronics Limited will not cease from aligning its strategies in line with the global compact standards and other recommended models. Thus, we shall continue to enhance our capability towards achieving sustainable development within Kenya and beyond. Benedict Makokha. Chief Executive Officer, Bens Electronics Limited. -3About Us Bens Electronics Limited was established in 1994 in Kenya by Benedict Makokha. He was approached by key mobile operators who suggested that the industry needed an innovative telecommunications solutions provider that could truly support the rapid pace of change in the Kenya’s internet and telecommunications market. He took up that challenge and expanded the company’s operations in the Coastal Region of Kenya. Bens Electronics Limited is a proven leader in building, integrating and maintaining Wireless Networks, Data/Voice/IT Networks for ISP, Commercial and residential facilities. This includes WIFI routers and other wireless equipment. The Bens Electronics team continues to develop the business with maintained sustainability and is committed to continuously working on environmental issues to make as small an environmental footprint as practicably possible. Bens Electronics believes that having excellent working conditions increases productivity and is important for our business conduct, as well as our partners and our supplier’s business conduct. Holding high standards is the best way forward for the continued success of our business. In our engagements with clients and partners, we seek to earn trust, meet or exceed their expectations in every way, from the first contact and beyond. From small companies to enterprise-level corporations throughout the Coastal Region of Kenya, our team of experts deliver a broad range of fast, customized network and telecommunication services, backed by our highest level of local customer service, security, and support. -41. HUMAN RIGHTS 1.1 Goals Bens Electronics actively supports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We are convinced that our values, the way we treat our employees and counterparts and the way we act in the line of business will have a positive influence on other stakeholders and counterparts when it comes to human rights. Bens Electronics is committed to upholding the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights and all other international, regional, and/or local laws that apply to Bens Electronics, such as the Bill of Rights as enshrined in the Constitution of Kenya 2010. PRINCIPLE 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. PRINCIPLE 2: Business should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. -5Bens Electronics has policies for Anti-Harassment, Equal Employment Opportunity and Workplace Violence Prevention and is committed to ensuring that all employees are treated fairly and with respect. Bens Electronics will not tolerate victimisation, bullying or harassment in the workplace. We continue to uphold international conventions on human rights such as the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights; International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination, Convention against Torture and Other Cruel; Inhumane or Degrading Treatment or Punishment, Convention on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women (CEDAW); Convention on the Rights of the Child (CRC), International Convention on the Protection of the Rights of Migrant Workers and Members of Their Families (ICRMW); Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities (CRPD). 1.2 Implementation As we expand our operations across the Coastal region of Kenya, we fully embrace the fact that our workers are the most important asset for our current and future relevance in the community and organizations that consume and pay for our services. To this extent, we have put in place policies and practices that ensure that the most basic right of each of our worker is to enjoy working at Bens Electronics regardless of their positions or salary levels. -6• We offer employment opportunities with gender balance as a key consideration. • We encourage women to take up technical roles. • We foster an enabling and friendly working environment for all our workers. • We create awareness amongst all our workers and those we come in contact with about the importance of respecting humanity and human rights. • Zero tolerance to child abuse within the communities where we leave or, by extension, amongst our own employees within their families. • We give preferential employment opportunities to our local communities in a bid of widening inclusiveness. 1.3 Achievements In the FY 2019-20 we have maintained high levels of work place safety by adopting a participatory approach to a comprehensive Occupational Safety and Health policy. Only one case of COVID-19 was reported in our entire organization. We also witnessed zero occurrence of workplace related accidents or incidents. Our organization carries out its business entirely within our borders and hence least exposed to any potential of practicing Human Trafficking. Furthermore it’s our policy to condemn and not to do any business with any known drug or human trafficking individuals or organizations. In the past year, Bens Electronics has not been subject to any investigations, legal cases or incidents involving Human Rights. -72. LABOUR PRACTICES 2.1 Goals Bens Electronics supports the ILO Core Conventions and will not do business with any organization that uses forced, compulsory or child labor. All Bens Electronics employees are issued with a contract of employment which clearly states their terms, conditions and base compensation. All newly employed staff are presented with an Employee Handbook which includes information on standard terms and conditions of employment, company benefits, compensation for overtime work, flexible working hours, company rules, grievance and disciplinary procedures. The Employee Handbook is available at all times for access by employees.. -8Bens Electronics complies with all relevant Kenyan health and safety legislation and provides relevant training to employees and other staff. Risk assessments are conducted and followed up regularly. Consultants are issued with contracts stating terms, conditions and requirements of their assignment and work under the same health and safety regulations as regular Bens Electronics employees. All Bens Electronics employees and other staff have the right to form and/or join labor unions and to bargain collectively, provided that this right is not in conflict with any local laws. PRINCIPLE 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. 2.2 Implementation Bens Electronics management values the employees well-being very highly which is illustrated by the following measures implemented this financial year namely; • Providing basic facilities like clean drinking water, personal protective gear, company paid basic medical services for workers and their dependents. • Holding regular open meetings to discuss new requirements by the organizations we work for. • Running of a reward scheme for best performance • Assisting our workers access credit facilities (SACCO) for their financial empowerment -9• Giving workers achievable work targets; • Upholding the dignity of our workers by not allowing use of derogatory or abusive language at the work place; • We ensure that salaries are paid on time and allowances paid promptly; • Not allowing intimidation or use of abusive language at work. Our remuneration and social benefits conform at the very least to national statutory standards, provisions, or respective agreements. We observe the provisions of ILO Convention no. 100 with respect to the principle of .equal remuneration for work of equal value. We comply with national provisions regarding working hours and vacation. Any employee may complain to their respective line manager or the company’s leadership if they believe they have been subject to unfair treatment or have suffered disadvantages with respect to working conditions. Employees will not suffer any disadvantage because of lodging such complaints. Bens Electronics condemns child labour and respects rights of children. All departments in Bens Electronics adhere to the stipulations of ILO Convention no. 138 and no. 182. The company does not engage in child labour. We have signed up and fully comply with our government’s code of conduct in respect to child labour and forced labour. All our workers are above 18 years of age including those who join our organizations on temporary internships. We uphold and affirm that there is and must be equal opportunity among our employees, regardless of the colour of their skin, ethnicity, race, gender, age, nationality, social origin, handicap, or sexual preference. We respect the political and religious convictions of our employees and collaborate as long as they are based on democratic principles and tolerate those of different persuasions. 10 Our Response to COVID-19 Pandemic § Agile workingBens Electronics has ensured that all staff members are empowered with the necessary tools to enable them to exercise their duties with maximum flexibility and minimum constraints hence optimizing their performance and enabling them to do their best work. We developed a work from home policy that enables our employees to work from home whilst providing the necessary materials, ensuring that they are efficient at their tasks. This has reduced the risk of contracting the virus since people have little or no exposure to the external environments as opposed to when people must come to the office to work. § Health and safetyAs an organization, the safety of the employees is a priority. All safety protocols and guidelines that have been given by the Ministry of Health have been adhered to in order to ensure that all our employees are safe. Just to mention a few; social distancing within the office for those who would like to work from the office and usage of cab services. § CommunicationBens Electronics has demonstrated commitment from the top and led by example in ensuring that communication is smooth and efficient during the covid-19 crisis and beyond. In addition, discussions addressing stress, mental illness and fatigue are being conducted just to ensure that our employees are happy and are satisfied with their jobs. Where problems arise, we are taking the initiative to understand and meeting the need. We have also encouraged open dialogue i.e., asking if colleagues are taking regular breaks, staying healthy just to ensure that our employees wellbeing is being taken care of. 11 § Stakeholder engagementWe have throughout the covid-19 crisis ensured that we have restructured where necessary and implemented strategies that geared towards win-win situations. We have remained truthful to the long-term viability of the company and its potential to create sustainable value. § For our employeeswe have prioritized their safety and vowed to continue doing everything to protect the workplace and help them adapt to new working conditions. § For our ecosystem of suppliers and customerswe have committed ourselves in securing the shared business continuity. Moreover, we have shown our determination by continuing to work in order to keep our supply chains open and integrated in our business response. § For our end consumerswe have maintained fair prices without compromising value addition and commercial terms for essential services and supplies. § For Governmentwe have continued to offer our full support. We have stood ready and continuously complemented public action with our resources, capabilities and know how. 2.3 Achievements In the FY 2019-2020, Bens Electronics has not been involved in any investigations, legal cases or other relevant events related to the contravention of the Global Compact Labor principles. Bens Electronics has not been subject to any health and safety statutory notices or prosecutions in the last year. 12 3. ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLE 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. PRINCIPLE 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. PRINCIPLE 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 3.1 Goals Environmental Sustainability is an issue that we at Bens Electronics recognize as central to the very existence of the human race as we know it today. Though the nature of our day to day business activities impact minimally on the environment, the long term net effect of other causes of environmental degradation must still concern us all. 13 At Bens Electronics, the company has, in the last couple of years used solar energy to power the offices. Currently, the 12 kW Solar Plant has saved the company a considerable cost of electricity and carbon emissions. Still, the company plans to engage an expert in the next financial year to conduct a comprehensive assessment of energy saving opportunities for the company. Once we decided to go the solar electricity way, all employees became acutely aware of energy conservation practices: Switch on the lights only when needed, use LED lights that are more energy efficient, and shut down electronics when idle. The knowledge that we are, however small this extend may be, contributing to reducing the carbon footprint in our environment is quite fulfilling. It is our expectation to continue on this trend as it has a positive effect on the environment as well as saving energy costs. 3.2 Implementation Our basic principles of environmental protection reflect our duty toward the environment and the basis for many initiatives that are implemented throughout the company. Bens Electronics has an environmental friendly packaging policy integrated in daily business routines. Consignments are packed responsibly to reduce weight and unnecessary volume. We recycle all the packaging we receive from suppliers and partners. All packaging sent from our warehouse is done by recycled cardboard boxes and pallets. We see these measures as a helpful in reducing our use of resources as well as having a positive impact on our operational costs. 14 Bens Electronics observes all requirements in relation to current legislation about disposal of electronic waste. Bens Electronics continually focused on the environment and works continuously to prevent dangerous products that constitute a threat to health and to the environment. Bens Electronics continuously improves and seeks innovative environmentally friendly solutions in products and services. Whenever possible we meet over the phone or over internet-based media rather than travelling. When travelling is required, we choose train when possible. 3.3 Achievements In the FY 2019-2020, our company demonstrated our commitment to environmental sustainability by increasing the capacity of our solar system installation in the office by 30%. This has helped in reducing our company’s footprint considerably. Bens Electronics has also adopted a sustainable fleet management system which ensures that field technicians adopt eco-friendly driving strategies and shift management to realize optimal consumption of fuel. We are also engaging with local communities in a sustainable water purification project where the households are supplied with free purified water for their consumption thereby enhancing public health, hygiene, and sustainable livelihoods during the COVID-19 pandemic. 15 4. ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 4.1 Goal In Kenya the risks of corruption while doing business is extremely high and the leadership of Bens Electronics detests and condemns this culture in the strongest terms possible. This position underlies our signing up with the UN Global Compact and other initiatives that support the fight against this scourge. The effects of corruption cause untold suffering among members of the world especially the poor as resources that would have been channeled towards giving better basic services are diverted and denied the very people who need it most. 16 4.2 Implementation This year, Bens Electronics committed to strengthening its anti-corruption training in order to equip its employees on what to look out for during business transactions. This was implemented successfully and this will be a training exercise the company will make on regular basis for knowledge sharing among the employees. We have adopted an HR Policy Manual that addresses many issues touching on ethical behavior in its widest sense but particularly emphasizing on honesty, integrity, conflict of interest, transparency, accountability. Bens Electronics as a policy of choice does not do business with organizations or individuals who are involved in graft or kickbacks. Within the company, we have put in place measures to encourage ethical behavior among our employees and in the way we do business or interact with other companies that give us business. Our major business partner Safaricom Ltd has a comprehensive Code of Ethics that we are signatories to and do all we can to comply by ensuring that our employees are aware and indeed practice its key points. 4.3 Achievements This year, Bens Electronics committed to strengthening its anti-corruption training. The Company’s financial report for the year ended July 2020, was prepared following generally accepted accounting principles, and the information was accurate, complete, and reliable. The Company’s internal control systems are adequate and appropriate; • All related party transactions are part of the Company’s normal course of business with regular commercial terms, sensible and fair conditions and for the maximum benefit of the Company. There was no fraud reported for the year ended July 2020. 17 Bens Electronics Limited P.O Box 726 Nyali, Mombasa, Kenya Email: info@benselectronics.co.ke Cell: 0722 422211, 0721 497708, 0721 566933, 0700 191157 18 -
