EYGPT, Cairo, Syria, Aleppo, Schmalhorststraße 54 Industrial city of Industrial city of ElObour, Elsheikh Najjar, 3rd 45899 Gelsenkirchen, BG district, 199. district Deutschland Tel: +201281111750 P.O.Box:9999, Tel: + 4915216990099 + 201118080845 Tel: + 963988279999 + 201091474000 + 963212687171 Since 1993 at BAYAN GROUP. ...We know that your team & you needs printed and graphic communication projects to be top-quality and delivered quickly. That’s why at BAYAN print houses. we consider your projects to be our priority. With direct access to a dedicated account manager and customer service team, we’ll collaborate together on your goals, and create custom solutions that meet your budget and make your process easier. From complex print designs to intricate distribution requirements, your project, your organization your brand & business are in very good hands at BAYAN. ART IS AN INTEGRAL PART OF PRINT AS a graphic designer you know the importance of a consistent brand image. Our staﬀ works with you to create standards that communicate the identiﬁable look that helps you deliver your ideas identically and share a great reputation with your clients & organizations. Dear graphic designers The limit is the sky... Print can be functional with many purposes. You might not think of a form or a report with art in mind. The function is to communicate information, but art is an integral part of print. The words may convey speciﬁcs, but the design adds to the meaning. Design deﬁnes the ﬂow, draws the eye, and adds to the enjoyment of the recipient. Design can also help to deﬁne the identity of a company or organization. The choice of color, the memorable style of a logo, even the choice of a typeface can convey an attitude or a company culture. That’s why design is such a critical part of branding. You know the importance of a consistent brand image. We can help you create standards for youe clients brand that communicate the identiﬁable look you want for your communications program. As one of our clients, you’ll have access to a creative ﬁnalizing staﬀ that can work with you to generate ideas and techniques to convey your message, your brand image, and your organizational culture. Our prepress services move well beyond the technical skills needed for print. It’s not at all unusual for one of our technicians to discuss options for color, art, and paper. In fact, our technical staﬀ is available for designers and client’s reviews even for consultations upon request. & SINCE 1979 MEMORY FOAM PILLOW HAPPY KIDS WEAR JEWLERY OF BEIRUT Mattresses & Furniture Original Textile PERFORMANCE SPORTS CITY M A T T R E S S ZAD ELKHAIR RESTURANT offee. . c .. .. c e fe of cof fee AMERICAN TECHNOLOGY 3lag.net ‫ﺣﻠﻮﻳﺎت‬ Konditorei Kids wear SaSha THE GREAT TASTE OF HOMETOWN you have high expectations for your printed products. We do too. You’re interested in the results, but it’s the combination of skill and equipment that produces the kind of product you want to represent your brand and your organization. At The BAYAN Co. we’ve been careful to invest in equipment and people that produce the best work. All of our equipment is calibrated. Our 5 color Heidelberg German press is designed to produce oﬀset work that is too demanding for many of today’s presses. we SUPPORT we at BAYAN supports the 10 principles of the united nation global compact. in many diﬀerent ways, promoting the higher level of professionalism bayan-group emplements glaobal compact in all bayan-group subsideries companies in SYRIA and EGYPT. equal employment opportunity emplemeted in every space and project at bayan-group, but no underage, child, slave laber involved in any single pice of job. very wrriten working environment in all bayan-group plants with a sence love. safety, healthy environment with never smoking policy. Human rights section A system has been we support and implemented in BAYAN GROUP for checking and respect the recording that all employees are paid a protection of minimum wage and avoid excessive overtime hours. internationally Employment contract stating the terms and proclaimed human conditions of services are availble to all employees rights. and we did activate a monitoring program regarding labor conditions we make sure that and build an annual report. we are not complict in any human right abuses labor rights section No discrimination in Our group respects the Salaries between men or women, only the company freedom of association structure and employment categories reﬂects into the and upholds the salaries eﬀective recognition of Eﬀorts of all Employees are totally evaluated, paid the right to collective and appreciated through a perfect HR. program bargaining My team is a running we don’t allow forced or project in BAYAN Group head oﬃce. in EGYPT it's compulsory labor in any a kind of sponsored school for sales, management, aspect within our and English developing operation or supply employees for free as well as new applicants. chain in any of our plants or activities labor rights section An Employee manual has been published and distributed to all we don't allow Child or employed and new applecart in BAYAN-GROUP detailing every underage labor within right for every employee in BAYAN-GROUP companies. any operation or plant. A value diversity based program evaluating the eﬀorts of each of BAYAN team and promote them to higher we don’t allow any positions and salaries. BAYAN HR dep is taking care of discrimination within every single detail related to workers, and management any plant, Activity and team. assessment surveys, in three operation in respect of levels used to be distributed every quarter and analyses to employment and improve employees skills and eﬃciency by training programs. occupation A well communication system between the Employees and management directly with an open door policy. It’s automated, (12,000 sheets/hour), and it can produce heavy ink coverage and exact color with over the top results. Our pressmen have a combined experience of over 25 years in oﬀset production. Even with all of the automation, the pressman’s eye is still critical to the ﬁnal appearance of your project. Whether it’s a run of 6,000 or 6,000,000, PCS you can rest assured that they’ll be checking your project carefully to make sure that the ﬁrst and last sheet meet your exact standards for color, clarity, and consistency. Your expectations are clear. Exceptional quality, consistent color, and print that pops oﬀ the page or shelf. That’s good. In fact, it’s just the kind of work we like to produce at The BAYAN Co. Print House. Print is a meticulous combination of art, science, and technology and we’re set up for the kind of print that the most particular designers and art directors demand. You have high expectations for your printed products..... We do too. spot metalize printing textured hot Stamping Spot UV Embossed Frosted spot UV Spot UV Metalic print * Oﬀset printed laminated corrugated packages 3 layers up to 6 layers corrugated packages. -Extended range, F ﬂute until large sizes with large format presses. * Oﬀset printed duplex packages 5colours printing with UV coating, special colours, hot foil stamping, embossing, lamination and spot lamination. Ranges from small size candy and chewing gum packages up to consumer goods self displayed duplex packages. Ready to use erected fast food packages Window type with transparent foil packages. Stationary Plastic trasparent boxes. paper bags Notebooks. Paper ﬂyers and catalogs Promotional agendas Magazines Maps. Books Food packaging. Product packaging Paper Cups. Rigid boxes Nonwaven shopping bags. hang tags Equipment’s and system are merging to bring your design into reality with a touch of art CTP machine with ﬁnalizing computer support team. Sheet fed oﬀset printing machines. Sheet to sheet lamination line. Die-cutting and creasing machines. Hot roll to sheet lamination machine. Hot stamping machines. Large format hot stamping machine. Spot UV lamination machine. Silk screen printing machine. Grooving machine. Rigid box line. Tape edge machine. Folding and Gluing lines. Sorting and Binding machines. • Quality control standards adopted. • Quality assurance international practices applied. Please contact your local agent www.bayan-group.net /ALBAYANFORPRINTING EYGPT, Cairo, Industrial city of ElObour, BG district, 199. Tel: +201281111750 + 201118080845 + 201091474000 Syria, Aleppo, Industrial city of Elsheikh Najjar, 3rd district P.O.Box:9999, Tel: + 963988279999 + 963212687171
