UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2020 covering November 2019 October 2020 mbpsolutions.com PAGE 2 Contents 02 MBP Solutions in brief Our focus Our services Our products Our corporate purpose Our corporate values MBP in the world 07 Scope of the report 08 CEO Statement 09 Sustainability Making industries more sustainable since 1999 Sustained growth over 20 years Advancing the circular economy in our supply chain Partnership for better management of residues MBP’s by-product management approach 12 Our corporate sustainability frameworks The United Nations Global Compact The Sustainable Development Goals Our sustainability policies 17 Our sustainability performance 2020 UN Global Compact Principles Our focus areas, goals & targets Our sustainability rating 34 Reporting criteria MBP Solutions in brief We are global experts in by-products and their application, including supply chain management, international sales and marketing, legal compliance and sustainability. PAGE 2 2020 UN Global Compact COP | MBP Solutions Our focus At MBP Solutions we are a global experts in by-products and their application, including supply chain management, international sales and marketing, legal compliance and sustainability. Since the beginning, we have focused on the optimal use of residues through the development of innovative by-product solutions, with an open book approach to incorporating full traceability. In order to add value to by-products collected and managed, we seek to understand them from a technical-chemical point of view through sampling and analysis. We combine this data with expertise about technical requirements in different areas of application, along with knowledge about legal requirements and restrictions in different geographical markets. We do monitoring, sampling, analysis, logistics, sales, marketing and registration with authorities. When required, we also make the necessary arrangements for storage, cleaning, filtering and the addition of additives and repackaging. Our services We offer a wide variety of specialist services, including by-product and waste collection and handling, as well as a world-leading by-product management outsourcing service (OMBP). We focus on managing byproducts from a production based on biological (non-fossil) raw materials and provide solutions for multiple industries, ranging from the oleochemical, biodiesel and omega-3 refining industries to companies that have other types of solutions, sludges and powders, such as 360ᵒ breweries, starch manufacturers, pharmaceutical companies and solutions manufacturers of nutritional ingredients. Our products We offer a wide range of products including biofuels, bioliquids, substrates for biogas production, soil improvement products, high-quality animal feed and pet food products, in addition to specialist technical products for a wide range of applications. In order to document the sustainable status of our products, we embrace relevant existing sustainability standards through certifications like ISCC, RSB, GMP+ MSC Chain of Custody and IFFO RS. PAGE 3 2020 UN Global Compact COP | MBP Solutions Our corporate purpose The business has grown steadily since it was first established in 1999 in Denmark and is now active across 5 continents and more than 50 countries. Despite the Covid-19 pandemic the company has seen significant growth throughout 2020 as more and more industries wake up to the importance of adopting more sustainable business practices and the need to reduce their impact on the environment. In 2020, our leadership team sought feedback from all employees, including: how they described what the business does; what values were most important to them; and what they found most motivating about the business. This feedback was used to define and answer four purpose-related key questions and five core values for the business going forwards. As a result of doing this work we now have in place a set of strong and very simple messages that are built on everything that this business has done to-date. OUR OUR WHY ? WHAT ? Why do we come to work to do What do we do? what we do at MBP Solutions? We turn one industry’s by-product We work together for a more into another industry’s raw material sustainable world by helping by partnering with them industries reduce their impact on to optimise resource use and the environment. generate added value. OUR OUR HOW ? WHERE ? How do we go about doing what we do and how does this make us “special” or better? Where do we want to be? We are global experts in by-products We want to be globally recognised and their application, including supply as the go-to partner for industries chain management, international sales who want to handle by-products in and marketing, legal compliance and a sustainable and responsible way. sustainability. PAGE 4 2020 UN Global Compact COP | MBP Solutions Our core values We also spent considerable time defining and refining what we want MBP Solutions to stand for in terms of what we do and the way we work together to do it. We agreed 5 value statements that will guide everything that we do and the way we operate and behave. As we go forwards into 2021, we will use these simple statements in all aspects of our business. We are already using them to guide our latest strategic planning and business development activity; they will help support our on-going adoption of LEAN working practices; we will incorporate them into our HR policies and procedures; and use them in our marketing and communications activity. They will be a reference point and reminder for all of us in MBP Solutions about how we want to work together, where we are heading and how we will get there. PAGE 5 2020 UN Global Compact COP | MBP Solutions MBP in the world MBP Offices Countries where both our customers and suppliers are located Countries where our customers are located Countries where our suppliers are located Today MBP Solutions has become a world leader in the collection, handling, processing, production and application of biological by-products and related services. Headquartered in Switzerland, MBP Solutions employs over We turn one industry’s ninety professionals; has offices in nine different countries; sells by-product into another products in more than fifty countries; and handles over three industry’s raw material by hundred thousand tonnes of biological residues every year for a partnering with them to diverse range of clients, from manufacturing industries within food and beverage, biodiesel, oleo-chemical, pharmaceutical, optimise resource use and omega-3 concentration and other industries using biological generate added value. raw material. 15.000 300.000 33 9 90 CUBIC METERS OF TONNES MANAGED OMBP MBP MBP STORAGE SOLD YEARLY FACTORIES OFFICES TEAM MEMBERS MBP in 2020 PAGE 6 Scope of the report This report focuses on our performance, challenges and opportunities between November 2019 and October 2020, and it covers MBP’s entire organisation, including administrative offices, industrial facilities and operations. This report meets the requirements for the UN Global Compact Communication on Progress, and it is available in English on our website www.mbpsolutions.com. PAGE 7 CEO Statement Sustainability has been at the core of our business as we work together for a more sustainable world by helping industries reduce their impact on the environment. On the journey to update our mission and vision our employees used sustainable to describe MBP and so this is firmly embedded into our company values. We support sustainable development by optimising resource use and implementing circular business We support solutions by turning one industry's by-product into sustainable another industry's raw material by partnering with development by them to optimise resource use and generate added value. optimising resource We can contribute to at least 14 of the 17 SGD‘s use and through our products and services. I am pleased to implementing reaffirm MBP’s support to the Ten Principles of the circular business UN Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. solutions by turning In this annual Communication on Progress, during the one industry's byUN Global Compact 20th anniversary year, we are product into proud to present our efforts to integrate the UN Global Compact principles into our business strategy, another industry's culture and daily operations, and we commit to raw material. sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. HELEN SAINSBURY CEO MBP Solutions PAGE 8 Sustainability Making industries more sustainable since 1999 MBP Solutions was founded in 1999 by the current Chairman, David Magnussen, who early on recognized the increasing importance of traceability and rigorous quality control for the strategic use of by-products. Our technical expertise, market knowledge and legal understanding help other companies to efficiently use resources, reduce waste and toxic emissions, cut operating costs and generate new revenue. PAGE 9 2020 UN Global Compact COP | MBP Solutions Sustained growth over 21 years Throughout these 21 years, we have helped our suppliers and customers improve their sustainability performance through the recycling and recovery of residual resources while contributing to global goals such as the reduction of waste and the efficient use of resources. We are proud of our ever-growing business relationships and the diverse network we have built, and we will continue enhancing our expertise to support the sustained growth of our business based on turning one industry’s by-product into another industry’s raw material. Advancing the circular economy in our supply chain The degradation of the world’s natural resources caused by human activities has created the need to move from a linear model of production and consumption to one that maintains the highest utility and value of products, components, and materials at all times. The circular economy model was born from this ambition, and it entails the reduction of waste, the use of waste as a resource when possible and the implementation of holistic and sustainable waste management approaches. Our company encourages sustainable production and consumption patterns that help bring the concept of the circular economy to life. The manufacturers and service providers constitute our suppliers, who send out residues for recycling or recovery purposes. Then, we either find direct applications for those residual resources or reprocess them into products, and our customers either use them to replace materials or use recycled resources through the purchase of MBP products. These synergies facilitate the use of Earth’s limited resources in a way that minimises its impacts on the environment while delivering greater value with less input. As a result, our suppliers and customers generate less waste, reduce business costs, earn economic benefits, reduce risks to public health and the environment, and ultimately, contribute to complementary policy areas such as the green economy, innovation for sustainability and the circular economy. Upstream Own activities Down stream in value chain in value chain Inputs Outputs MBP's Products Other organizations Other organizations / suppliers By-products and / customers residual resources from other organizations / suppliers Waste from operations not suitable as Recycle Energy Recovery Other Recovery MBP's products Recycle Incineration without Landfill Reuse energy recovery Recovery Customer's Products PAGE 10 2020 UN Global Compact COP | MBP Solutions Partnership for better management of residues Our company facilitates working in collaboration to enable resource efficiency through the recycling and recovery of by-products and residues. We help our suppliers and customers minimise negative impacts on the environment and human health, by safely, responsibly and efficiently maximising recycling, recovery and resource generation opportunities. Suppliers Customers We provide solutions for by-product Based on product knowledge as well as management and expertise to know-how about the technical industries that prefer to focus on requirements for raw material in various their core products. These are our sectors and applications, we provide suppliers, who are mostly companies customers with cost-efficient and involved in the omega-3, fish meal, sustainable products and raw material oleochemical, food, beverages, feed, substitutes in the areas of biofuels, pharmaceutical, and nutritional technical oils, animal feed, fertilisers and supplements markets. anaerobic digestion substrates. MBP’s by-product management approach We take huge pride in identifying products that are normally considered as waste or a residue from production, and by understanding their potential, we find its optimal application. By these means, we not only help to reduce the waste generated in society but also the consumption of primary raw materials, as our by-product-based products will often substitute materials of the primary production sector. By-product management hierarchy Although we predominantly deal with by-products, our business operations fall into the waste management sector for the reason that, in general terms, we handle residues and remaining materials from industrial processes. Hence, we have aligned our by-product management approach with the waste management hierarchy established by the parties to the Basel Convention, the food waste hierarchy of the Global Waste Management Outlook, and other relevant internationally and nationally recognised standards for environmentally sustainable waste management approaches.1 Attending to technical, environmental, economic, and legal aspects, we apply this hierarchy when finding the most suitable applications and customers for the by-products collected and managed. Landfilling is our last option for dealing with residues, and we do our best to divert waste to composting or anaerobic digestion when possible, as these applications allow us to use gases and the same time avoid GHG emissions from waste disposal. 1 The waste management hierarchy and food waste hierarchy set out the preferred order of handling practices, from most to least preferred, to achieve optimal environmental outcomes. See further: Global Waste Management Outlook (2015). PAGE 11 Our corporate sustainability frameworks MBP’s sustainability policies, strategy, culture and day-to-day operations are grounded on the UN Global Compact principles, the SDGs, our supply chain needs, and our principles and values. PAGE 12 2020 UN Global Compact COP | MBP Solutions The United Nations Global Compact The UN Global Compact is the world's largest corporate sustainability initiative, which offers a framework for businesses stating ten principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. We joined the UN Global Compact in November 2017, and as a signatory, our company is committed to supporting and integrating the ten principles as part of our strategy, culture and day to day operations. In this report, we describe our company’s performance during our third period of commitment and we express our continued support for this initiative. The Sustainable Development Goals The Sustainable Development goals (SDGs) are a set of 17 goals supported by 169 detailed targets that represent a clear agreement on where the world needs to be by 2030 to guarantee human wellbeing in the long term. They were adopted in September 2015 by the 193 members of the United Nations, and they reflect economic, social and environmental expectations as well as future policy direction at the international, national and regional levels. We believe that the SDGs impact our business and that our company can impact the achievement of the SDGs. Thus, we have committed to fully integrating the SDGs into our strategy and to joining global efforts to achieve these goals. PAGE 13 2020 UN Global Compact COP | MBP Solutions Our sustainability policies Guided by our values and working in partnership with our team members, customers and suppliers, we strive to deliver sustainable by-product management solutions for the advantage of the community and the environment where we operate. Through the following policies, we reflect our commitment to ensuring that sustainability is considered throughout all our business decisions. Economic Policy At MBP, economic sustainability means operating our company responsibly and thoughtfully to maximise shareholder return while wisely managing environmental, economic and social risks and opportunities. A good economic sustainability practice is key for our business because, without it, our company will not succeed in the social and environmental aspects of sustainability. Like most companies, we aim not only to survive but also to develop more profits and improve our position compared to competitors in the market. Therefore, we work to grow by embracing a business model that creates value for shareholders and investors through the pursuit of profitability, financial strength, adaptability and long-term resilience. We intend to achieve this through constant If you think the economy development and improvement and by maintaining an excellent relationship with is more important than employees, suppliers and customers. We will consistently work to ensure the best the environment, try planning decisions and use the best holding your breath technological solutions to be able to continue offering high value-added products while counting your and services, meet the expectations of our employees, suppliers and customers, and money. create long-lasting economic, environmental and social value in the industries and Dr. Guy McPherson geographical areas where our company operates. We are committed to using different strategies for the efficient use of our resources to guarantee the company’s profitability and long-term survival in a responsible way. PAGE 14 2020 UN Global Compact COP | MBP Solutions Our sustainability policies Environment, Health & Safety Policy We help to cut down industry-related MBP Solutions is committed to contributing to the greenhouse gas emissions by putting back efficient use of natural resources, the minimisation materials in the supply chain which would of waste and the prevention of pollution, in order otherwise be considered waste, thus to preserve the environment and biodiversity. We reducing the necessity for waste disposal strive to achieve this by building sustainable and and eliminating the emissions related to cooperative relationships, by educating our sourcing and processing of raw materials. employees and strengthening their environmental awareness, and by becoming the company of choice Health & Safety for industries having or wanting biological byWe believe that safety is an important products. management task. Therefore, our company is committed to effectively manage health and The key points of our strategic approach towards safety throughout our organisation. To fulfil this environmental and more sustainable improvements commitment, our company will: are: As a minimum, ensure regulatory We will make a consistent effort to incorporate compliance. environmental concerns and impacts into our Minimise risks of workplace injuries and decision making and internal processes. We aim illness as effectively as possible. to do this by monitoring environmental risks and Review our systems, processes, health, establishing mitigation activities, as well as safety, and environmental performance and aligning our strategic goals with global improve them when necessary. sustainability objectives. Provide personnel with adequate training, As an organisation, we make sure we are resources, and systems. compliant and whenever possible, exceed legal Inform employees and contractors of this environmental requirements and participate in policy and make it available at all company sustainability schemes and standards. This allows worksites. us to promote conformity and support all our partners by providing competence and expertise on sustainability compliance. We strive to minimise emissions by selecting and using greener logistic services and power sources in our processing facilities in the Scandinavian region. This includes but is not The greatest limited to using steam as an energy source, which is delivered directly from a neighbouring threat to our production facility, as well as having installed air filters which capture environmental planet is the contaminants. belief that We sort the residues from our office activities. We have implemented waste separation, and we someone else will are striving to reduce the use of environmentally harmful materials and household items, cleaners, save it. and other products. By doing so, we aim to contribute to more sustainable consumption and Robert Swan lessen the impact of our office activities. PAGE 15 2020 UN Global Compact COP | MBP Solutions Our sustainability policies Human Rights Policy Statement MBP Solutions is committed to conducting business responsibly and ethically. Our human rights policy statement is based on the three documents collectively known as the International Bill of Human Rights (the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, and the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights), along with the International Labour Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. This Human Rights Policy Statement consolidates our commitment to respect international labour and human rights to the fullest extent possible and supports our efforts to integrate better a human rights approach into our business practices. Our commitment is reinforced by our involvement in voluntary business initiatives like the UN Global Compact, and it is consistent with our goal to enrich our workplace, work in partnership with our supply chain, protect the environment and respect the communities where we operate. We believe in our responsibility to respect and support internationally proclaimed human rights, and we will constantly strive to make sure that we are not complicit in human rights abuses of any individual we are in contact with directly or indirectly. We will seek to avoid instigating or contributing to unfavourable human rights through our own activities, products and services and address their effects if they occur in a timely and appropriate manner. We believe everyone should be treated fairly regardless of their race, gender, economic status, ethnic background, sexual orientation, age, political beliefs or any other comparable characteristics, and therefore we prohibit discrimination, harassment, forced labour and child labour. We draw on internationally recognised labour principles and comply with applicable labour and employment laws in all the countries where we operate, to ensure that we are not interfering with the enjoyment of the rights conferred by national laws and international declarations. We are committed to protecting the health and safety of our people at work and provide fair wages and benefits, as well as encourage development opportunities and continuous learning for our employees. Where national legislation is stricter or conflicts with our approach, we will complement our policy with local requirements and follow the United Nations’ Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights (UNGPs). This statement applies to our internal stakeholders in all locations where we conduct business. We will implement human rights due diligence into our operating model as suitable, instruct our team members to comply with this policy, establish appropriate reporting procedures and provide proper preventive or corrective action. We expect the same adherence to human rights from our external stakeholders, and we will regularly look for ways to support the promotion of human rights within our scope of operation and influence. PAGE 16 Our sustainability performance 2020 Areas assessed This report offers an overview of MBP‘s approach to various aspects of sustainability. Hence, this section presents the results of our assessments in three areas: 1. UN Global Compact Principles (pages 18 to 22) 2. Our focus areas: goals & targets (pages 23 to 32) 3. Our CSR scorecard 2020 (page 33) PAGE 17 2020 UN Global Compact COP | MBP Solutions Integrating the SDGs Our company is aware of the links that the UN Global Compact principles and our goals and targets have with the SDGs. We recognise the importance that all the SDGs have to our business, and we have measured our corporate sustainability performance in connection to our impact on the 17 SDGs. Status guidelines We used a stoplight approach to monitor the status of our performance on each of the areas assessed: On track Attention required Off track A green status colour indicates on-target performance or compliance. Yellow indicates decreased performance that may impact long-term goals or compliance, and red indicates below-target performance or underlying critical risks. In addition to reporting our performance through the stoplight approach, we provide a quick note about work in 2020 and our planned improvements in 2021 on some of the areas assessed. UN Global Compact Principles As a signatory to the UN Global Compact, we measured our corporate sustainability performance in connection to the UN Global Compact principles and the SDGs, and compared it with our performance on last year to keep record of any changes. PAGE 18 Human Rights Principle 1: Support and respect the protection of human rights Areas Health and safety Hours, wages and leave Fair treatment 2019 2020 We ensure that our workers are We respect labour rights We respect our employees' privacy provided safe, suitable and sanitary and protect them from workplace work facilities harassment Our contribution to the SDGs Target 8.8. Target 8.5. Target 16.1. Safe and secure Full, productive and Reduce all forms of working environment decent employment violence New employees are required to We review salaries yearly and In November 2020, we will complete a Health and Safety guarantee that our employees are introduce two mandatory training Progress achieved 2020/ Overview course as part of their granted fair wages and annual leave courses on anti-harassment and mandatory induction. A refresher terms, including employees in anti-bullying issues: one for all our Planned Improvements 2021 for current employees will be countries where labour rights are Managers/Technical/Area/HR conducted over the next few less favourable. responsible; and another one for months. the rest of our employees. Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Areas Product stewardship Country risk Community impacts 2019 2020 We make sure that our products do We seek to become aware of and We make sure our operations do not not pose risks to the enjoyment of avoid the risk of contributing to, generate negative impacts on the human rights endorsing or benefiting from human local communities where we right abuses operate Our contribution to the SDGs Target 16.7. Inclusive, participatory and representative decision-making at all levels PAGE 19 Labour Principle 3: Uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Areas Association and bargaining 2019 2020 We recognise the rights of our workers to freedom of Our contribution to the SDGs association Target 8.8. Protect labour rights Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Areas Forced and compulsory labour 2019 2020 We take all necessary measures to ensure that we do Our contribution to the SDGs not participate in any form of forced or bonded labour Target 8.7. Eradicate forced labour and end modern slavery Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour Areas Child labour and young workers 2019 2020 We comply with minimum age standards Our contribution to the SDGs Target 8.7. Prohibition and elimination of child labour Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Areas Discrimination 2019 2020 We ensure that employment-related decisions are based on Our contribution to the SDGs relevant and objective criteria Target 10.3. Equal opportunities and reduced inequalities Progress achieved 2020/ In November 2020, we will introduce a course on equality and diversity that all our employees must complete. Additionally, in December 2020, we will roll out out two specialised courses on Planned Improvements 2021 unconscious bias: one for our employees and another one with specific content for our managers. PAGE 20 Environment Principle 7: Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Areas Precaution 2019 2020 We support a precautionary approach to environmental issues Our contribution to the SDGs Target 12.2. Sustainable management of natural resources Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Areas Responsibility and performance 2019 2020 We undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Our contribution to the SDGs Target 12.6. Sustainable practices and sustainability reporting We conducted our first materiality assessment in 2019 with the aim to implement KPIs to measure and Progress achieved 2020/ monitor our environmental impact. However, due to some changes in our strategic approach, we have Planned Improvements 2021 postponed this process. We are planning to select and have KPIs in place between 2021 and 2022 in connection to our new LEAN management system Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Areas Technology 2019 2020 We encourage the development and use of environmentally friendly Our contribution to the SDGs technologies Target 9.4. Environmentally sound technologies and industrial processes PAGE 21 Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Areas Company culture and procedures Joint Actions 2019 2020 We ensure that relevant We take a clear stand against employees are properly trained to corruption and support enable them to assess the risk of cooperation to fight corruption corruption when doing business Our contribution to the SDGs Target 16.5. Reduce corruption and bribery in all their forms Between 2019 and 2020, we rolled out a Progress achieved 2020/ course on anti-bribery, which is mandatory Planned Improvements 2021 for all employees and must be completed every two years. PAGE 22 2020 UN Global Compact COP | MBP Solutions Our focus areas, goals & targets Our focus areas Our commitment to sustainability is structured around four focus areas directly connected to our scope of business: promoting resource efficiency, enabling circularity, improving traceability and enhancing our expertise. Each focus area has long-term goals and specific targets that are closely monitored to fulfil our ambition of being the best in innovative management of biological by-products. Additionally, we have linked our focus areas to current global challenges and the SDGs to ensure that we are guaranteeing not only the sustainability of our company but also the sustainability of our planet. Our goals and targets Our goals are at the heart of our corporate sustainability approach, and they mirror our plan for competing successfully, optimising our financial performance and achieving the company’s vision while contributing to the environmental, social and economic resilience of the industries and communities where we operate. On the pages below you will find information on our performance in 2020 as well as the interlinkages between our focus areas, our goals, our targets and our contribution to the SDGs. PAGE 23 2020 UN Global Compact COP | MBP Solutions Our focus areas Promoting resource Enabling Improving Enhancing efficiency circularity traceability our expertise Global challenges & ambitions addressed Resource scarcity: The Circular economy: In a Supply chain transparency: Compliance requirements: decreasing availability of circular economy, the aim is Administering data and Our global economy has fishmeal and fish oil for to close the loops, and any increasing transparency are produced opportunities for marine ingredients will force materials taken from nature powerful tools for managing the international expansion the animal feed industry to should be used not only risks, grasping opportunities of companies that come with depend more heavily on byefficiently but also for as of global supply chains and an increased need for products for fish feed long as possible contributing to sustainable governance, oversight and development formal corporate compliance Our goals 1. Maintain our position as 2. Develop more long-term 4. Ensure a better system for 7. Improve our legal, storing and retrieving commercial and product the preferred partner agreements for the strategic information about customers understanding for handling by-products management of by-products and suppliers from the Omega-3 fish oil (known as OMBP 8. Secure MBP’s long-term 5. Implement a management industry worldwide agreements) recruitment of personnel model to secure that all 3. Make countrywide employees and partners are with key competencies contracts for Used Cooking working together in a defined Oil (UCO) collection and direction 6. Improve our quality control handling system Our targets 1.1. Upgrade 20’000 tonnes 2.1. Grow OMBP sourcing 4.1 Implement the use of a 7.1. Improve MBP's expertise customer relationship in different industries and of distillation fish oil volume with 15% each year management (CRM) system countries by-products from biofuel to 3.1. Increase the volume of 5.1. Integrate Corporate animal feed per year UCO handled with 10-15% 8.1. Maintain employee Sustainability into our per year in Denmark, Norway satisfaction and engagement Management Model and Sweden 6.1. Maintain existing certifications and obtain additional certifications of relevance for our products and services Our contribution to the SDGs PAGE 24 2020 UN Global Compact COP | MBP Solutions Promoting resource efficiency Target Progress Goal 1 Maintain our position Upgrade 20'000 tonnes of distillation fish oil byproducts from omega-3 concentration from biofuel to as the preferred animal feed per year partner for handling Performance 2020 by-products from the We sold 15'393 t of various fish oils by-products for animal feed Omega-3 fish oil applications in the 12 months ending 31 October 2020, which is 53,9% industry worldwide higher than the previous period's reported figures Planned improvements 2021 We are working on finalising a strategic agreement with our largest customer in this product category until now. In connection with this agreement, we will be expanding our supplier portfolio as we are qualifying more suppliers and clients for this customer. We anticipate this will enable us to significantly increase the volume of fish oil byproducts sold for animal feed applications in 2021, as we will be able to supply one of the major players in the industry 15’393 T OF DISTILLATION FISH OIL BY-PRODUCTS FROM OMEGA-3 CONCENTRATION UPGRADED FROM BIOFUEL TO ANIMAL FEED in the 12 months ending 31 October 2020 Our contribution to the SDGs PAGE 25 2020 UN Global Compact COP | MBP Solutions Enabling Circularity Target Progress Goal 2 Develop more longGrow OMBP sourcing volume with 15% each year term agreements for Performance 2020 the strategic OMBP volume grew 12,1% in 12 months ending 31 October 2020, management of bycompared to the previous 12 month period products (known as Planned improvements 2021 OMBP agreements) In 2020, we launched three new functions to drive the improved administration of our OMBP contracts and have a more structured approach to our business development: an OMBP KAM Manager, an OMBP Sales Manager and a Vice President of Business Development. These strategic changes are expected to help us improve our performance on this goal from 2020 onwards Outsourced Are you having trouble with Management your biological by-products? of By-Products Would you like more value from your waste? Watch the Animated Video Our contribution to the SDGs PAGE 26 2020 UN Global Compact COP | MBP Solutions Enabling Circularity Progress Goal 3 Target Make country-wide Increase the volume of UCO handled with 10-15% per year in Denmark, Norway and Sweden contracts for Used Cooking Oil (UCO) Performance 2020 Used Cooking Oil sold volume grew 8,5% compared to the collection and last period reported. The main reason for these results has handling, as well as been the disruptions caused by COVID-19, which has led to consolidation a downturn for restaurants from which we collect UCO. However, considering the challenges posed by the agreements with pandemic, we believe our performance was very good and smaller collectors and we are satisfied with the outcome Planned improvements 2021 Although we anticipate that the COVID-19 pandemic will continue influencing our performance on this goal, we are aiming to implement strategies to increase our supplier base to be able to achieve the growth that we had planned on this area of our business Our contribution to the SDGs PAGE 27 2020 UN Global Compact COP | MBP Solutions Improving traceability Target Progress Goal 4 Ensure a better Implement the use of a customer relationship management (CRM) system by 2019 system for storing and retrieving Performance 2020 The CRM system has been rolled out and implemented throughout MBP information about group customers and Planned improvements 2021 suppliers We are clearing up data for OMBP leads and will be using potentials for managing our OMBP sales work better. We are working to implement Microsoft Dynamics 365 Business Central in 2021, and we are planning to integrate it to our CRM system to allow for higher efficiency Our contribution to the SDGs PAGE 28 2020 UN Global Compact COP | MBP Solutions Improving traceability Target Progress Goal 5 Implement a Integrate Corporate Sustainability into our Management Model by 2020 management model to secure that all Performance 2020 On the journey to update our mission and vision, our employees used employees and sustainable to describe MBP, and so this has been selected as one of partners are working our company values. Furthermore, for the second year in a row, we have been awarded the Gold Medal by EcoVadis on corporate sustainability together in a defined performance. direction We have achieved progress in the organisational development by delegating more accountability and responsibility to a number of new managers in key roles. Also, we have started using LEAN as a tool to improve work processes, appointed owners of key processes and started initial work on setting up a system of KPIs with which to improve clarity of direction and performance Planned improvements 2021 We are planning to select and have sustainability KPIs in place between 2021 and 2022 in connection to our LEAN management project. Additionally, we will be conducting a series of strategy workshops in 2021, and we expect that sustainability will be a key theme in this work. We will also incorporate sustainability into our new strategy, which we are aiming to have in place in 2021, and we joined the SDG Ambition Accelerator initiative of the UN Global Compact to incorporate the SDGs into our core business management framework Our contribution to the SDGs PAGE 29 2020 UN Global Compact COP | MBP Solutions Improving traceability Target Progress Goal 6 Improve our quality Maintain current certifications and obtain certifications of relevance for our products and services control system Performance 2020 All our certifications were successfully maintained in 2020: ISCC, RSB, MSC & IFFO-RS GMP+, ISO 9001, ISO 14001, MSC Chain of Custody and Marin Trust In 2020 we achieved a chain of custody (COC) sustainability (Former IFFO-RS) certification for MSC and IFFO-RS Planned improvements 2021 We are moving towards a more structured internal auditing approach for all certifications. We are working to improve document management, provisions on content layout and review of procedures, flow charts and work instructions associated with implementing the certification systems' requirements to complement the internal audit controls. Additionally, we will implement awareness training on all standards for our Quality Team through our internal training platform (MBP Learning), as well as alignment sessions to educate and help all our employees focus on the common goals, purpose and compliance efforts related to MBP's certifications Our contribution to the SDGs PAGE 30 2020 UN Global Compact COP | MBP Solutions Enhancing our expertise Goal 7 Target Progress Improve our capacity to gather and understand legislation and increase our commercial knowledge and Improve and product expertise standardise our Performance 2020 legal, commercial MSC & IFFO-RS and product Legal understanding: A new in-house legal department has been set up in MBP Commercial knowledge: Our Senior Commercial staff members are now understanding able to contribute more to this area as time has been freed up for them through delegation. We are also evaluating relevant industry associations, conference and exhibition participation to keep up to date with the market Product expertise: In 2020, we appointed four application experts who are driving regular business coordination meetings as well as product documentation and R&D. Additionally, our Senior Product Experts are now working more on this area as time has been freed up for them through employment of two additional members for the Sales Team and one Consultant Planned improvements 2021 Legal understanding: In 2021, our Legal Manager will be leading the implementation of a monitoring and compliance process that will help us not only to be proactive at managing legal compliance in our worldwide operations but also at identifying business opportunities in the legislation driving sustainability, which presents an increased potential for our services and products. Furthermore, we will add a member to the legal team in 2021 Commercial knowledge: We aim to continue our work with industry associations. Moreover, we have four new positions as technical sales employees on the budget for 2021 Product expertise: In 2020, trials will be conducted for specific products in the technical and animal feed application areas Our contribution to the SDGs PAGE 31 2020 UN Global Compact COP | MBP Solutions Enhancing our expertise Progress Goal 8 Target Maintain employee satisfaction and engagement Secure MBP’s longterm recruitment of Performance 2020 personnel with key 30% of our employees would enthusiastically recommend MBP as a place to work. This has remained the same as our previous year's result, competencies revealed by our employee satisfaction survey. However, in 2020, we achieved an employee Net Promoter Score eNPS of -9 compared to 0 in 2019 Planned improvements 2021 Given the unprecedented changes to our ways of working due to the Coronavirus pandemic, we anticipated a dip in this year's score. We have received some valuable feedback from employees and we plan to set clear objectives, which will enable us to improve this score in 2021. In 2020, we hired an HR, Training and Development Manager with expertise in the field of employee engagement, an interest in sustainability and a qualification in managing diversity and inclusion in an organisation. In 2021, she will move into the role of Group HR, Training and Development manager and focus on the HR strategy and goals of MBP, in consideration of the SDGs. We also have a new HR Manager joining us in February 2021, who will focus on the Scandinavian areas of the business and also has a passion for engagement and continuous improvement. With the growth of the HR team, we are excited for future projects and how this will have a positive impact on the employee experience at MBP Our contribution to the SDGs PAGE 32 2020 UN Global Compact COP | MBP Solutions Our sustainability rating Sustainability ratings are gaining growing relevance in the corporate sustainability world. They evaluate how well a company balances economic, environmental and social values and performance to measure the overall quality of its sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) management system. To strengthen the transparency of our company, we use one of the world’s most trusted methodologies: the EcoVadis CSR rating. Their evidence-based assessments are refined into easy to read scorecards, providing zero to one hundred (0-100) scores; medals (bronze, silver, gold) when applicable; and guidance on strengths and improvement areas. This year, we have improved our overall score (from 64/100 to 69/100) and have been awarded the Gold Medal once more. This recognition demonstrates MBP’s high competence in important corporate sustainability areas, which is great news not only for our company but also for our suppliers, customers, employees and partners, as it gives them the security that they are working with a company that operates in a responsible manner with the planet, the people and the economy. We will use the results of our assessment to focus our sustainability efforts for next year and develop corrective action plans to improve our sustainability performance even more and achieve best practice. PAGE 33 2020 UN Global Compact COP | MBP Solutions Reporting criteria This is our third UN Global Compact communication on progress, and we intend to continue reporting on an annual basis. For this reporting cycle, we evaluated our company’s performance on the four areas of the UN Global Compact through the Global Compact Self Assessment Tool and identified our impact on the SDGs based on the Business Reporting on the SDGs: An Analysis of the Goals and Targets developed by GRI and UN Global Compact. Additionally, we carried out our third CSR assessment through EcoVadis, and we now have an in-house Legal and Corporate Sustainability Manager, who is helping us with the integration of sustainability into our corporate strategy, processes, and model. The results of these internal and external assessments enabled us to evaluate our status and progress and laid the groundwork for the communication of our performance and engagement on this report. Yet, we are committed to continue identifying areas of development and to constantly improve our disclosure in line with emerging frameworks for sustainability reporting. To learn more about MBP Solutions and how our stakeholders and we are working to promote the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact, visit www.mbpsolutions.com Switzerland Canada Denmark Italy Netherlands Neuchatel (HQ) Halifax Silkeborg Milano Gouda +41 32 720 05 20 +1 952 456 8720 +45 45 82 71 66 +41 32 720 0520 +31 182 51 11 16 Norway Sweden United Kingdom USA info@mbpsolutions.com Greåker Staffanstorp Skipton Minneapolis www.mbpsolutions.com +47 69 97 12 20 +46 46 12 00 50 +44 1756 791 203 +1 952 456 8720 PAGE 34 Our core competencies International Legal Sales & Compliance Marketing Product & Application Sustainability Expertise Supply Chain Management mbpsolutions.com
