LIXIL GROUP CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 Commitment Management & Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society External Evaluation & Action Plan INDEX CONTENTS Commitment3 Our People 32 Society76 Message from the CEO 4 Diversity & Equal Opportunity 34 Human Rights 78 Message from CR Committee Chairperson 6 Rewarding Workplaces 39 Stakeholder Engagement 83 Combatting COVID-19, Forging the New Normal 8 Talent Development 42 Community88 Supporting International Initiatives 10 Occupational Health & Safety 45 Index LIXIL CORE & Behaviors 12 External Evaluations & Action Plan 93 Environment49 External Evaluations & Awards 94 CR Management Structure & Environmental Management System 51 Action Plan & KPIs 96 Material Issues Selection 13 Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation 55 Scope of Reporting 105 CR Management Structure 14 Sustainable Water Use 58 Independent Practitioner’s Assurance Report 106 Material Issues 15 Sustainable Use of Resources 61 Corporate Responsibility Strategy 16 Management of Chemical Substances 63 Supplementary PDF S  upplementary Publication: Databook (581KB) Publication: Three Strategic Pillars 17 Customers & Supply Chain 64 Databook Global Sanitation & Hygiene 18 Human Resource Performance Data 3 Responsible Supply Chain Management 66 Water Conservation & Environmental Sustainability 24 Environmental Performance Data 6 Product Safety & Quality 69 Diversity & Inclusion 27 Independent Practitioner’s Assurance Report 12 Customer Satisfaction 73 GRI Index 13 TCFD Index 30 ● Corporate Governance Reporting Period Applicable Organizations See the Corporate Governance section on the LIXIL Group Corporation FYE 2020 (April 1, 2019 to March 31, 2020) CR activities of LIXIL Group Corporation, as well as LIXIL website (http://www.lixil.com/) for information on the Corporate Corporation and other consolidated subsidiaries are covered Governance Framework, the Group Management Philosophy, Group in the report. The scope is provided in footnotes for matters Charter of Corporate Behavior and Internal Control Systems. that have narrower coverage. LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2020 2 Commitment Management & Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society External Evaluation & Action Plan 01 COMMITMENT COMMITMENT We express our commitment to corporate responsibility through messages from Kinya Seto, Director, Representative Executive Officer, President, and CEO of LIXIL Group Corporation, and Jin Song Montesano, Chair of the Corporate Responsibility (CR) Committee. Commitment Message from the CEO Message from CR Committee Chairperson Combatting COVID-19 Supporting International Initiatives LIXIL CORE and Behaviors LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2020 3 Commitment Management & Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society External Evaluation & Action Plan Commitment > Message from the CEO 01 COMMITMENT MESSAGE FROM THE CEO LIXIL’s higher purpose as a company is to make better contributing to society and communities through our business. homes a reality for everyone, everywhere. I firmly believe Concerning Global Sanitation & Hygiene, until now, LIXIL that fulfilling this corporate mission leads to further growth has been tackling the challenge through the development Commitment of our business as well as contributing to society and the and roll-out of its affordable SATO Toilet Systems to areas communities we serve. without sewers. However, the global COVID-19 pandemic In FYE 2020, we accelerated our transformation, has highlighted the critical need for people to wash their Message from the CEO strengthening governance while simplifying the hands to prevent infection, together with the grave reality Message from organizational structure to enable swift decision-making in that a large proportion of the world’s population does not CR Committee Chairperson the rapidly changing business environment in Japan and have access to sanitary handwashing facilities. As a swift Combatting COVID-19 around the world. We also reviewed our business portfolio response to protect the lives of many, LIXIL developed the Supporting International Initiatives to focus on our water and housing technology businesses, SATO Tap, a handwashing solution for households without our core areas of expertise. In addition, we have built a access to running water. This affordable innovation is LIXIL CORE and Behaviors structure that maximizes cross-regional synergies throughout designed to ensure low contact, thereby reducing the spread businesses and brands and accelerates strategic innovations of disease, while minimizing water use. We are committed to to expand the scale of our business and technological facilitating sustained handwashing practices and improved capabilities. hygiene through its roll-out. In 2019, LIXIL was included for the first time in the We are also pushing ahead in our collaborations with Dow Jones Sustainability World Index (DJSI World), an various partners on sanitation and hygiene, including the indication that we have been recognized globally as a Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA). Our Make a company that focuses on sustainability as a part of the Splash! partnership with UNICEF is expanding its activities overall business strategy. We are proud of this recognition and will include promoting handwashing practices going and are committed to improving our performance further forward. We are excited that these activities with UNICEF and continue contributing to achieving the United Nations have the potential for LIXIL to make a substantial impact in (UN) Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) by 2030 while establishing the sanitary market in developing countries and supporting the everyday lives of people around the world will also be a meaningful collaboration for us in developing Kinya Seto through our products. our business. Regarding Corporate Responsibility (CR) activities, we In the field of Water Conservation & Environmental Director, Representative Executive Officer, announced new goals for our three strategic pillars and have Sustainability, we achieved our carbon intensity target Executive Officer and President, and CEO, LIXIL Group Corporation continued to strengthen the execution of our CR strategy of last year, two years ahead of plan, and set our new LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2020 4 Commitment Management & Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society External Evaluation & Action Plan Commitment > Message from the CEO 01 COMMITMENT Environmental Vision 2050, pursuing a net-zero carbon prevent infection. The growing interest in environmental footprint by 2050 in alignment with the Paris Agreement. We sustainability and diversity around the world is also are committed to further reducing our business activities’ impacting the role “the home” plays in people’s lives. New Commitment environmental impact and accelerating measures to help needs are emerging, such as desires to make the home the world transition to a circular economy by providing ecoeco-friendly, comfortable to live in with family members, as well friendly products and services. Leveraging its strength as as a pleasant work environment. We believe that accelerating Message from the CEO a global leader in water conservation, resource circulation, user-centric innovations and creating further value by Message from and filtering technologies, LIXIL will continue to set high responding to these new needs will lead to the sustainable CR Committee Chairperson standards globally and elevate the environmental value of growth of our business and contribution to society. Combatting COVID-19 water among our employees and external stakeholders. At LIXIL, we are ever more committed to supporting our Supporting International Initiatives The execution of business strategies rests with our customers and contributing to society. With our responsibility employees. At LIXIL, we believe that the breadth of as a corporate citizen always at the top of our minds, we will LIXIL CORE and Behaviors knowledge and different perspectives that employees of continue to pursue swift implementation of our CR strategy diverse backgrounds offer are the driving forces of growth with a renewed sense of urgency. and innovation. We also believe that an organization in which each and every employee has a high sense of purpose leads to sustainable growth. To revitalize our business in Japan, we are actively implementing a new HR program and initiatives to transform into an organization based on meritocracy that allows employees to exert their full potential. Furthermore, we are implementing a global Diversity & Inclusion strategy, which comprises fostering an environment where individuals can play to their strengths and measures to attract and retain diverse talent, to build a diverse, inclusive culture among all employees. The spread of COVID-19 from the start of the year has forced people worldwide to adapt to the “new normal.” Lives have changed rapidly and significantly, as workfrom-home became the norm due to travel restrictions to LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2020 5 Commitment Management & Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society External Evaluation & Action Plan Commitment > Message from CR Committee Chairperson 01 COMMITMENT MESSAGE FROM CR COMMITTEE CHAIRPERSON At LIXIL, we have completed another year of solid progress LIXIL has committed USD 1 million to expedite the spread in our Corporate Responsibility (CR) activities. As we strive of handwashing practices through this innovation and is to achieve our purpose to make better homes a reality working proactively with both private and public sector Commitment for everyone, everywhere, I am pleased to see that our partners, such as UNICEF, to bring this much-needed commitment to improving society through our corporate innovation to communities in need. activities is building further pride among our employees and Since launching the Make a Splash! partnership with Message from the CEO a deeper connection with business stakeholders. We believe UNICEF to improve sanitation and hygiene in the developing Message from such progress is vital for the organization’s sustainable growth. countries, we are making progress in accelerating advocacy CR Committee Chairperson LIXIL’s CR activities have continued to gain global and forming toilet markets to develop a sustainable Combatting COVID-19 recognition, including a listing in the Dow Jones sanitary environment in Kenya, Ethiopia, and Tanzania, in Supporting International Initiatives Sustainability World Index for the first time in 2019. We collaboration with local governments. In FYE 2020, JPY 10 are honored to be recognized as a global sustainability million from employees’ donation program Team Splash! LIXIL CORE and Behaviors leader. This recognition only redoubles our commitment to and JPY 26 million raised from the 3rd annual Toilets for All enhancing our performance. Reflecting the progress made cause-related marketing campaign in Japan contributed so far and the changing business environment, we set new to these efforts. Similar campaigns are now underway goals for our three CR strategic pillars in FYE 2020. worldwide to support LIXIL’s efforts to help improve global Concerning Global Sanitation & Hygiene, our awardsanitation and hygiene. winning social business SATO has helped change the lives LIXIL is strengthening its partnerships with various of 18.6 million people in over 38 countries thus far. We have organizations. Last year, we signed a memorandum of made significant progress by expanding our reach to over understanding for collaboration with the Japan International 10 countries within a year. We have extended our timeline Cooperation Agency (JICA) to improve sanitation and access to achieve our original target of improving sanitation for 100 to clean water in developing economies. We are continuing million people worldwide to 2025. Armed with the knowledge to expand the network of support and cooperation including Jin Song Montesano we have acquired thus far, we are more determined than employees, end-users, and business partners around the ever to meet the new target. world to help solve global sanitation and hygiene challenges. Director, Executive Officer and Senior Managing Director, Human Resources In addition, as a response to the global COVID-19 In the area of Water Conservation & Environmental and General Affairs, Public Affairs, pandemic, we launched a new product in June 2020 Sustainability, we accomplished the carbon intensity Investor Relations, External Affairs, called SATO Tap, an affordable handwashing solution for target we set in 2016 two years ahead of plan. Our new and Corporate Responsibility, and Chief People Officer (CPO) households in the regions in which SATO business operates. Environmental Vision 2050 aims to achieve net-zero carbon LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2020 6 Commitment Management & Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society External Evaluation & Action Plan Commitment > Message from CR Committee Chairperson 01 COMMITMENT emissions from housing and lifestyle solutions, as well as locking and unlocking, as well as automatic opening participation numbers double from the previous year to over our business operations, by 2050. In addition, we strive to and closing of existing entrance doors, with a single 15,000 employees across 33 countries. become a leader in the field of preserving water and limited remote control. This device provides support to people in The unprecedented spread of the COVID-19 has made us Commitment resources for future generations. wheelchairs and the elderly by making it easier when going think about ways to continue our business and contribute to In Germany, GROHE converted all its production plants in and out or answering the door. We have also presented a society while putting our employees’ health and safety first. to run on green electricity in July 2019, which has led to prototype of an AI toilet that uses image sensing technology Across the globe, people have been forced to change how they Message from the CEO being awarded a top ranking at the German Sustainability to check the health of the elderly, and will continue to live and work; I believe LIXIL’s role in making better homes a Message from Award. In Japan, we participated in the Ministry of the develop products and services that help enhance people’s reality has grown even more critical in the “new normal.” CR Committee Chairperson Environment’s Practical Guide for Scenario Analysis in line everyday lives. LIXIL’s employees adapted swiftly to these changes Combatting COVID-19 with the TCFD Recommendations, using LIXIL Housing To foster a more inclusive environment in the company, and engaged in numerous organic activities to help their Supporting International Initiatives Technology’s sash door and ZEH as examples and are we formed new Global Diversity & Inclusion (D&I) communities, such as setting up handwashing stands in also continuing our shift to 100% renewable energy in our department in September 2019 to implement unified D&I hospital lobbies in Vietnam and creating and distributing LIXIL CORE and Behaviors business centers. Furthermore, in response to the growing strategies and measures across the organization. We have face masks to medical personnel in North America and concerns of social issues related to plastics, we formulated since newly established D&I Committee, chaired by CEO Mexico. We even had an employee lend their camper van the Plastic Action Statement to clarify our direction. Kinya Seto, to ensure concrete D&I actions are driven by to a local hospital so frontline workers could have a place Reflecting our leadership in water stewardship, LIXIL has our most senior business leaders and executive officers. to shower and rest outside of the hospital. Employees been named in the CDP’s prestigious Water A List for the Also, amid the worldwide protests against social and racial are sharing information on their initiatives and sparking second consecutive year. injustice, we issued our D&I Statement, presenting the steps collaborations across regions and geographies, and creating Regarding Diversity & Inclusion, we have committed we will take to building a society free of discrimination and new activities via our internal social media platform. I am to ensuring all of our products and services are based on inequality. In recognition of our D&I initiatives, LIXIL has confident these employee-led activities will be the driving our Universal Design concept by 2030.* Our Resilience again been selected as a Nadeshiko Brand this year (which force for new innovations, and that the collaboration Toilet, which operates on a minimal amount of water during highlights Japanese corporations that actively promote women’s happening amongst employees across countries and regions emergencies, won the Japan Resilience Award 2019. We employment and advancement) and has also been awarded will make us a stronger and more vital company. also established the Alternative Toilet designed to pursue an Gold in the PRIDE Index for the third consecutive year. In the current world where significant changes are inclusive facility that transcends the conventional boundaries Pride in LIXIL’s commitment to a more sustainable needed, we are committed to paving the way to tackle created by gender, disabilities, age, and other differences in society is felt throughout the company by employees and social challenges in collaboration with various stakeholders, our headquarter building. continues to grow. In FYE 2020, LIXIL Community Day, held including our employees, customers, international In September 2020, LIXIL began selling a retrofittable annually across the organization for employees to contribute organizations, and business partners. electric door opener system called DOAC, which allows to their local communities at their own initiative, saw the * Applicable for products and services provided in Japan LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2020 7 Commitment Management & Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society External Evaluation & Action Plan Commitment > Combatting COVID-19 01 COMMITMENT COMBATTING COVID-19, FORGING THE NEW NORMAL As a company that prides ourselves on supporting sanitary To help fulfill one of our three strategic pillars: Global Protecting the Safety of our Customers environments and healthy living, the LIXIL Group was quick Sanitation & Hygiene, LIXIL will invest approximately JPY to establish a global team to help combat the COVID-19 100 million in encouraging the broader use of hand• We have built up online showroom-style customer service pandemic and put various countermeasures in place to washing solutions, and we are working with UNICEF and and sales activities via computer, smartphone, or other Commitment protect our customers, employees, and local communities. other organizations to help prevent the spread of COVID-19 digital tools. We are also pursuing initiatives that encourage the ongoing through initiatives that advocate hand-washing and other • To boost our emergency response capabilities, we have transformation in working styles, digitalization, product sanitary practices. been building a more decentralized production base Message from the CEO development, and globalization in order to help shape our spreading over multiple production sites. Then, in April Message from new normal post-COVID world. 2020, we launched a new system to promote greater CR Committee Chairperson cooperation by unifying our global production system and Combatting COVID-19 Developing SATO Tap as a New Solution supply chain. Supporting International Initiatives • To prepare for the new normal, we are seeking to strengthen Hand-washing is an effective way of preventing the spread our range of touchless toilets, faucets, and IoT-driven LIXIL CORE and Behaviors of COVID-19. However, this can be problematic primarily for products. We are also focusing on the development of developing countries that do not have sufficient access to products with superior ventilation capabilities and solutions water or soap, sufficient hand-washing facilities, or an ingrained designed to satisfy people choosing to work from home. hand-washing culture. According to UNICEF, three billion • We issued informative advice on how to ventilate homes, etc. people, or 40% of the world’s population, do not have basic hand-washing facilities in the home, and that number can be as high as 75% in the world’s least developed countries. Our recently developed SATO Tap handwashing station can generate a stable but frugal flow with minimal water using water contained in a PET bottle and gravity. To facilitate use in developing countries and other underprivileged regions, we designed a handwashing station that can use PET bottles of various shapes and sizes and is SATO Tap hand-washing solution using PET bottles simple to design and manufacture with only two plastic parts to keep both costs and prices low. We are scheduled to start production of the SATO Tap in India and intend to expand production into Africa as well in the future. Navish hands-free faucet LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2020 8 Commitment Management & Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society External Evaluation & Action Plan Commitment > Combatting COVID-19 01 COMMITMENT Protecting the Safety of our Employees Protecting the Safety of our Communities • We were able to shift smoothly to telecommuting thanks • Employee volunteering: Anti-COVID-19 measures and new to the solid digital technology base that we have been product development: gradually introducing for some time. That digital base also A group of employee volunteers who wanted to help Commitment enables us to hold town hall meetings with managers and prevent the spread of COVID-19 launched a virtual employees all over the world and conduct online training. working group to share and implement various ideas. • To help forge a new normal, we are using digital tools to The projects included donating medical masks and face Message from the CEO progress our flextime and telecommuting systems and to shields made using 3D printing technology to health Message from promote even better internal communication. workers and donating sanitizer, soap, and other items to CR Committee Chairperson • At manufacturing sites, we introduced a flexible shift local communities. They are also seeking to develop new Combatting COVID-19 system, created a scheme that enables people to products using LIXIL technology. Supporting International Initiatives commute without using public transport, and further • We are helping to prevent the spread of COVID-19 by strengthened hygiene management. installing more of our SATO Toilet Systems for developing LIXIL CORE and Behaviors • We gave all employees inside and outside Japan a one-off countries and accompanying hand-washing facilities COVID-19 benefit of JPY 50,000 or equivalent. in order to improve sanitation and encourage more • Within Japan, we distributed masks made from curtain widespread hand-washing. fabric remnants to employees, and provided digital teaching materials on sanitation and hygiene issues to help support employees who have children. Digital teaching materials on sanitation and hygiene issues for employees with children Employee volunteers worldwide create and donate sanitary products LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2020 9 Commitment Management & Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society External Evaluation & Action Plan Commitment > Supporting International Initiatives 01 COMMITMENT SUPPORTING INTERNATIONAL INITIATIVES The LIXIL Group’s corporate philosophy is to contribute to The UNGC 10 Principles improving the comfort and lifestyles of people around the world. To bring our philosophy to life through our operational HUMAN Principle 1: B usinesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and activities, we are driving a range of R&D and other initiatives RIGHTS Principle 2: m ake sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Commitment to help resolve global sanitation and hygiene problems as well as other social and environmental issues. Principle 3: Businesses  should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right To meet and exceed society’s expectations for the LIXIL to collective bargaining; Message from the CEO Group, we must take active leadership as a global company LABOUR Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Message from of pioneering water and housing products. We will continue Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and CR Committee Chairperson to support and implement the Ten Principles of the United Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Combatting COVID-19 Nations Global Compact (UNGC), and provide our expertise Supporting International Initiatives in areas of sanitation to help create safe and healthy living Principle 7: B usinesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; spaces for all, as envisioned in the Sustainable Development ENVIRONMENT Principle 8: u ndertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and LIXIL CORE and Behaviors Principle 9: e ncourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Goals (SDGs). Commitment to the UN Global Compact ANTIPrinciple 10: B  usinesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. CORRUPTION The LIXIL Group signed the UNGC in July 2013 in full support of the principles set out in the framework. In order to help implement the UNGC Ten Principles in The UNGC was proposed in 1999 by then Secretary-General Kofi Annan to the four areas of human rights, labour, environment, and encourage companies and other organizations to pursue voluntary actions anti-corruption, we became a member of some Global to promote sustainable growth as good social citizens. Compact Network Japan working groups (environmental management, ESG, reporting, human rights due diligence, and human rights education) in FYE 2020, and began sharing information. WEB United Nations Global Compact LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2020 10 Commitment Management & Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society External Evaluation & Action Plan Commitment > Supporting International Initiatives 01 COMMITMENT Sustainable Development Goals The LIXIL Group’s Three Strategic Pillars and Endorsing the Task Force on ClimateTheir Relevance to the SDGs Related Financial Disclosures The LIXIL Group reflects the SDGs approach in its corporate responsibility strategy and uses the goals as a major Global Sanitation & Hygiene In March 2019, the LIXIL Group announced its support guideline when forming management decisions. The for the Task force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures Commitment SDGs are a set of concrete action plans outlined in the (TCFD). In FYE 2020, we participated in the newly Transforming our world: the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable established TCFD Consortium in Japan. We also pursued Development, outcome-oriented document adopted by the proactive scenario analysis under the support program Message from the CEO UN General Assembly in September 2015, consisting of 17 provided by Japan’s Ministry of the Environment to help Message from global goals and 169 targets to be achieved for sustainable companies perform scenario analysis of climate-related CR Committee Chairperson development. The LIXIL Group will continue to contribute to Water Conservation & business risks and opportunities in line with TCFD Combatting COVID-19 achieving the SDGs through its business operations. Environmental Sustainability recommendations. Going forward, we will strive to reflect Supporting International Initiatives the results of the analysis in our management strategy and CR Three Strategic Pillars (P16) enhance our information disclosure. LIXIL CORE and Behaviors PDF Details about our winning at the 2nd Japan SDGs Awards WEB UN Sustainable Development Goals CR Environmental Disclosures (P53) Diversity & Inclusion LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2020 11 Commitment Management & Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society External Evaluation & Action Plan Commitment > LIXIL CORE & Behaviors 01 COMMITMENT LIXIL CORE & BEHAVIORS LIXIL Group employees are guided by the LIXIL Core Philosophy and three LIXIL Behaviors. LIXIL CORE PHILOSOPHY Commitment The Group’s superior products and services contribute to Message from the CEO improving people’s comfort and lifestyles. Message from CR Committee Chairperson Combatting COVID-19 LIXIL Behaviors Supporting International Initiatives The three LIXIL Behaviors provide a unified way of working for all LIXIL employees, helping to make LIXIL a purpose-driven LIXIL CORE & Behaviors entrepreneurial company fit for sustainable growth. CR Improving Understanding of LIXIL Behaviors (P40) LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2020 12 Commitment Management & Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society External Evaluation & Action Plan 02 CR MANAGEMENT CR MANAGEMENT STRUCTURE & STRUCTURE & MATERIAL ISSUES SELECTION MATERIAL ISSUES We have put in place a robust management structure for driving sustainability initiatives, SELECTION and identified key issues that matter the most to our stakeholders, and to us. CR Management Structure & Material Issues Selection CR Management Structure Material Issues CR Strategy LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2020 13 Commitment Management & Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society External Evaluation & Action Plan CR Management Structure & Material Issues Selection > CR Management Structure 02 CR MANAGEMENT CR MANAGEMENT STRUCTURE Management leadership and coordination with the The executive officers responsible for CR swiftly report STRUCTURE & LIXIL Group’s Corporate Responsibility (CR) Committee was established to align with the technology business operating technology businesses is critical to achieve prompt and the results of CR Committee discussions and deliberations MATERIAL ISSUES model introduced in April 2015. The CR Committee meets appropriate action. Accordingly, the CR Committee consists to other executive officers and directors of the LIXL Group, SELECTION quarterly and works to ensure swifter action in response to of executive officers from corporate functions, including enabling necessary decisions to be made. The executive economic, environmental, and social sustainability issues. Human Resources, Legal, Finance, Quality, Environment, officers, who are in charge of promoting CR initiatives, In FYE 2020, the committee discussed and determined new R&D, Marketing, and Public Affairs/Investor Relations/ immediately indicate and communicate decisions made in CR Management Structure & Material Issues Selection CR strategy, key human rights issues, and TCFD response. External Affairs/Corporate Responsibility, and representatives the CR Committee to their respective functions to facilitate from each technology business. speedy, concrete action. CR Management Structure Material Issues CR Strategy Decision-making bodies LIXIL Group Board of Directors LIXIL Group executive officers CR Committee (Chaired by Chief Public Affairs Officer) (Meets quarterly) Human Technology/Quality Legal PA/IR/EA/CR* Finance R&D Marketing Technology Businesses Resources /Environment LIXIL Water Technology representative Officers in charge LIXIL Housing Technology representative As of March 31, 2020 * Public Affairs/Investor Relations/External Affairs/Corporate Responsibility LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2020 14 Commitment Management & Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society External Evaluation & Action Plan CR Management Structure & Material Issues Selection > Material Issues 02 CR MANAGEMENT MATERIAL ISSUES In FYE 2016, the LIXIL Group identified the issues that LIXIL Group’s Material Issues * Compiled FYE 2016 STRUCTURE & matter the most to our stakeholders and the Group following * Highlights issues that require focused priority action MATERIAL ISSUES a rigorous materiality selection process, as described below. Category Material issues* Background and reason SELECTION We have set a medium-term action plan for each of these Corporate governance As a company that operates globally, maintaining strong corporate governance practices is Compliance critically important to LIXIL. Our shareholders are also becoming more interested in corporate material issues, and appropriately disclose the progress and Risk management governance, with the adoption of Japan’s Corporate Governance Code in 2015. While results of our activities on our website. Going forward, we will Governance Information security expanding our global reach, our corporate governance was put to the test in 2015, when we CR Management Structure & Taxation strategy discovered accounting irregularities at an overseas subsidiary. To prevent recurrence of such Material Issues Selection continuously review these issues to reflect changes in the Intellectual property strategy an incident and solidify our operating foundation, we must further advance our efforts to environment surrounding the LIXIL Group. strengthen our corporate governance, compliance, and risk management systems. Anti-corruption Corruption is detrimental to the development of a sustainable society. Global scrutiny towards CR Management Structure Fair business Transparent political relations bribery and fraud is intensifying, and extraterritorial imposition of penalties and higher fines practices Fair business are increasing rapidly. Material Issues LIXIL Group’s Material Issues Selection Process Human rights due diligence In accordance with the United Nations (UN) Guiding Principles on Business and Human CR Strategy Human Rights, which clarifies the responsibility of companies to uphold human rights, it is becoming rights of greater importance for us to protect and respect human rights both within the LIXIL Group and across our entire sphere of business influence. Issues were selected considering: 1) Global trends; Diversity and equal opportunity As we expand our global reach, our business and organizational structure become more Selection 2) Relevance to the industries to which the LIXIL Occupational health and safety complex and diverse. We therefore need to appropriately grasp and manage risks related to Group belongs; and Employee recruitment and retention occupational health and safety across the Group. 3) Expectations of our stakeholders (customers, Labor Labor-management relationship Diversity is vital to innovation. Companies worldwide are increasingly focused on attracting shareholders, business partners such as practice Working environment and retaining high-caliber employees. We are actively promoting diversity based on the LIXIL suppliers, non-governmental organizations, etc.) Talent development Diversity & Inclusion Declaration, but we need to push ahead further in pursuing this cause. Local job creation The level of impact of each selected issue was Quality and Product safety Product safety is a top priority for the LIXIL Group as a manufacturer. Serious product defects can Assessment assessed considering: customer Customer satisfaction cause anxiety for our customers and greatly affect the reliability and reputation of our products. 1) The Group’s mediumto long-term business satisfaction operations and opportunities; and 2) The viewpoints of our stakeholders. Greenhouse gas emissions reduction The adoption of the Paris Agreement by 196 parties to combat climate change has set a clear direction Sustainable water use towards decarbonization. Global water shortage is also an increasingly serious issue. The LIXIL Environment Sustainable use of resources Group needs to do more to conserve water, energy, and other natural resources across the entire value Environmental management chain, from procurement through production, distribution, end use, and product disposal. Material issues were validated by officers from each Validation corporate function, and the CR Committee approved Supply chain management Stakeholders have a growing interest in responsible supplier management as the world seeks to and approval the final list of material issues. develop international standards on sustainable procurement. The LIXIL Group’s manufacturing Supply chain footprint extends across Japan and other parts of Asia, Europe, North and South America, and the Middle East, and we need to enhance supplier management in an even more responsible manner. Stakeholder engagement and The adoption of the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) has inspired people, Stakeholder collaboration companies, and other organizations to help solve social issues. As a maker of pioneering LIXIL Group’s Material Issues engagement R&D for solving social issues water and housing products, we need to cooperate with stakeholders, and focus more on R&D Contribution to global sanitation & hygiene designed to help resolve social issues, such as aging, hygiene, and environmental issues. LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2020 15 Commitment Management & Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society External Evaluation & Action Plan CR Management Structure & Material Issues Selection > CR Strategy 02 CR MANAGEMENT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY STRATEGY The LIXIL Group believes that people’s living spaces — the delivering safe and comfortable products and services through About LIXIL Vision for Sustainable Living STRUCTURE & environment where they live, work, and play — are critical responsible and sustainable innovations. We leverage our PDF Details (137KB) MATERIAL ISSUES to their daily lives and well-being. As a result, we are scale and expertise to pursue initiatives focused on our SELECTION committed to ensuring that any growth in our businesses three strategic pillars, which cover global issues that require contributes to improving the quality of people’s lives by urgent action and are closely linked to our field of business. CR Management Structure & Material Issues Selection Our Corporate Responsibility Mission To be the most trusted company by enhancing living spaces through innovative, responsible engagements and initiatives around the world CR Management Structure Material Issues Water Conservation & Global Sanitation & Hygiene Diversity & Inclusion CR Strategy Promote and enable access to safe and Environmental Sustainability Leverage the knowledge and perspectives of a diverse workforce as hygienic sanitation practices, especially for women and girls, while Conserve water, energy, and other natural resources utilized in and a key driver of growth and innovation, and improve quality of life preventing the harmful transmission of diseases for children by LIXIL products and services, including in the supply chain, for all people through our products and services, irrespective of production, distribution, and during end use their age, gender, and the level of disability Sanitation for All Zero Carbon and Circular Living Inclusive for All By 2025, improve the livelihood of 100 million people through sanitation By 2050, achieve net-zero carbon emissions from housing and lifestyle By 2020, establish the culture of diversity and inclusion within our and hygiene initiatives solutions as well as operations, and become a leading company based on organization and among all employees • Promote research and development of products that actively contribute a model that preserves water and natural resources for future generations By 2030, ensure all products and services* are based on LIXIL’s to resolving sanitation issues Universal Design concept • Design products and services with consideration to lifecycle impacts • Expand and ensure self-sustainability of businesses that improve and environmental efficiencies, and increase the sales share of this • Implement internal diversity initiatives around the world sanitation in developing economies around the world product portfolio • Promote the development of universal design products and services • Foster a range of initiatives to tackle global sanitation and hygiene • Lower its environmental impact through efficient energy usage and that are Good for one, Good for all, Good for a lifetime issues across LIXIL's global business units adoption of recyclable energy to minimize carbon emission, realize higher water usage efficiencies, and resource circulation throughout all of its business operations * Scope: Products and services in Japan (as of August 2019) Our strategy stands upon a foundational commitment to ethical business practices Governance Fair Business Practices Human Rights Labor Practices Quality and Supply Chain Stakeholder Customer Satisfaction Engagement Enhance LIXIL’s Engage all employees and Advance human rights across Build a strong corporation Through responsible management governance to maximize officers in our business the business to operate as a and workplace where all Strengthen relationships of the overall supply chain, deliver Proactively engage with our corporate value operations with a high responsible corporate citizen employees can achieve their with customers through our a stable portfolio of products and LIXIL’s key stakeholders standard of corporate ethics fullest potential products and services fulfill stakeholder accountability LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2020 16 Commitment Management & Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society External Evaluation & Action Plan 03 THREE THREE STRATEGIC PILLARS STRATEGIC PILLARS The LIXIL Group leverages its specialist expertise and business scale to pursue initiatives focused on three strategic pillars, selected from among the most urgent issues relating to the regions in which we operate. Three Strategic Pillars ● Global Sanitation & Hygiene ●W ater Conservation & Environmental Sustainability ● Diversity & Inclusion LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2020 17 Commitment Management & Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society External Evaluation & Action Plan Three Strategic Pillars > Global Sanitation & Hygiene 03 THREE GLOBAL SANITATION & HYGIENE Promote and enable access to safe and hygienic sanitation practices, especially for women and girls, while preventing the harmful transmission of diseases for children. STRATEGIC PILLARS Highlight 2 Those regularly Progress Social Issue People living billion defecate outdoors Three Strategic Pillars without a toilet people 670 million 3.8 million units of SATO products to date (1 in 4) people ● Global Sanitation & Hygiene Target Shipped ●W ater Conservation & Environmental Sustainability ● Diversity & Inclusion Sanitation for All Shipped to more than 38 countries By 2025, improve the livelihood of 100 million people through sanitation and hygiene initiatives Improved the lives of 18.6 million people Our Journey Set up the Social Sanitation Initiatives organization Launched Make a Splash! global partnership Target: (now the SATO Business division), which focuses on with UNICEF Improve the sanitation solutions lives of 100 million people 2016 2017 2018 2019 2025 Analyzed socioeconomic Revised target losses from poor sanitation Launched our Toilets for All project Bangladesh SATO operation moved into the black LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2020 18 Commitment Management & Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society External Evaluation & Action Plan Three Strategic Pillars > Global Sanitation & Hygiene 03 THREE Background The impact of the sanitation crisis is felt throughout entire nations and regions, crippling opportunities for growth and Our Approach & Strategy An estimated two billion people — about one-quarter of the development. In 2015, global economic losses from poor The LIXIL Group continues to strive towards the target of STRATEGIC PILLARS global population — live without access to safe, sanitary sanitation were estimated at USD 223 billion.* Among the improving the sanitary environments of 100 million people, toilets. Among them, approximately 670 million people still United Nations (UN) Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) but we have pushed out our target date from 2020 to 2025. regularly defecate in the open. These figures come with a for 2030, Target 6.2 seeks to “achieve access to adequate We hope that accelerating cooperation with various partners Three Strategic Pillars devastating human cost: Each day, over 800 children under and equitable sanitation and hygiene for all and end open to help expand our business will also help improve people’s five die from diarrheal diseases caused by unsanitary living defecation, paying special attention to the needs of women sanitary environments and quality of life. ● Global Sanitation & Hygiene conditions. and girls and those in vulnerable situations.” This highlights Sanitation problems vary by region, depending on the A lack of safe, clean toilets poses particular dangers for the need for collaboration between governments, nonavailability of water resources, the level of urbanization, ●W ater Conservation & Environmental Sustainability women and children. There are countless cases of women governmental organizations (NGOs), private companies, and and access to toilet facilities. The LIXIL Group’s Sato or children being sexually assaulted while trying to find various other sectors in tackling sanitation issues. Business division is the primary driver of R&D and business ● Diversity & Inclusion somewhere private to relieve themselves. Sanitation issues operations tailored to the characteristics and needs of also contribute to the gender gap in education — the lack of * According to “The True Cost of Poor Sanitation,” a 2016 survey individual markets, including infrastructure, income levels, conducted by Oxford Economics, international NGO WaterAid, and the sanitary school toilets has been identified as a reason why and environmental restrictions. LIXIL Group. girls who have started menstruating feel they are no longer able to attend classes. WEB The True Cost of Poor Sanitation Regional Issues and Solutions Region Issue Solution Features Many households and schools SATO Toilet Systems • Low price Rural areas lack toilet facilities • Simple installation • Water-efficient flushing Inadequate water supply and Micro Flush Toilet System • Reuse wastewater for flushing Urban areas facilities (under development) • Water-efficient flushing Difficulty of sewerage Portable Toilet System • A combination of easily installed Rural areas with scattered infrastructure or pit toilet (under development) portable toilets and stations communities and slums installation for collecting toilet waste from individual households Slum in Mumbai LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2020 19 Commitment Management & Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society External Evaluation & Action Plan Three Strategic Pillars > Global Sanitation & Hygiene 03 THREE SATO Toilet Systems The SATO toilet systems are a range of simple, affordable the country in 2013. How SATO Toilet Systems Work STRATEGIC PILLARS solutions intended for use in developing countries. Flushing The SATO Toilet Systems are currently manufactured and requires only 0.2-1 liter of water, using a counterweight sold in six countries in Asia and Africa. Including donations, trapdoor that otherwise remains closed to reduce odors and some 3.8 million units have been distributed to at least 38 Three Strategic Pillars prevent insects, such as flies, from spreading bacteria. countries, contributing to better sanitation for an estimated User relieves themselves The original SATO model, developed through dialogue with 18.6 million people. ● Global Sanitation & Hygiene communities in Bangladesh, received a grant from the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation. Production and sales began in ●W ater Conservation & Environmental Sustainability ● Diversity & Inclusion Countries Where SATO Toilet Systems Are Used 1 Bangladesh 20 Malawi 36 Belize Mauritania SWITZERLAND 2 21 Benin Mozambique ARMENIA 3 22 33 1 Bangladesh 20 Malawi 4 Bhutan 23 Myanmar 24 4 2 Belize 21 Mauritania User pours water into 5 Bolivia 24 Nepal 23 the pan, which opens 15 3 Benin 22 Mozambique 6 Brazil 25 Nigeria 1 the trap and flushes 2 21 16 1 Bangladesh 20 4Malawi 28Bhutan 23 Myanmar the waste 30 3 11 7 Cambodia 26 Papua New Guinea37 14 2 Belize 7 21 Mauritania 5 Bolivia 24 Nepal 1 Bangladesh 29 20 Malawi 8 Cameroon 27 Peru 35 10 13 225Belize 31 3 Benin 22 Mozambique 6 Brazil 25 Nigeria 21 Mauritania 9 Congo 28 Philippines 8 18 Cote d'lvoire 4 Bhutan 7 Cambodia 26 23 Myanmar 26 Papua New Guinea 3 Benin Mozambique 22 10 29 Rwanda 34 17 27 4 Bhutan9 Myanmar 23 11 1 Bangladesh Ethiopia 5 Bolivia Malawi Senegal 30 20 24 Nepal 8 Cameroon 27 Peru 6 5 Bolivia Nepal 24 12 2 Belize Fiji 31 21 6 Brazil Mauritania Somalia 25 Nigeria 9 Congo 28 Philippines 38 22 20 19 12 6 Brazil Nigeria 25 13 3 Benin Ghana South 32 22 7 Cambodia Mozambique Africa Papua CoteNew 26 10 Guinea 29 d'lvoire Rwanda 5 1 Bangladesh 7 Cambodia 20 Malawi Papua 26 14 4 Bhutan New Guinea 33 23 Guinea-Bissau 8 Cameroon Myanmar Tajikistan Peru 27 11 Ethiopia 30 Senegal 2 Belize 8 Cameroon 21 Mauritania 32 Peru 27 15 5 Bolivia Haiti 34 24 9 Congo Nepal Tanzania Philippines 28 12 Fiji 31 Somalia 3 Benin 9 Congo 22 Mozambique 6 Brazil Philippines 28 16 India 35 25 10 Cote Nigeria Uganda d'lvoire Rwanda 29 13 Ghana 32 South Africa 4 Bhutan 23 10 Cote d'lvoire Myanmar Rwanda 29 17 7 Cambodia Indonesia 11 Ethiopia Papua Uzbekistan 36 26 New Guinea 30 14 Senegal Guinea-Bissau 33 Tajikistan The counter-weight trap 5 Bolivia Nepal 24 11 Ethiopia Senegal 30 18 8 Cameroon Kenya 12 Fiji Peru Vietnam 37 27 Somalia 31 15 Haiti 34 Tanzania door closes to keep 13 Ghana IndiaAfrica South Uganda odors and flies away 6 Brazil Nigeria 25 12 Fiji Somalia 31 19 9 Congo Madagascar 38 28 Philippines Zambia 32 16 35 7 Cambodia Papua 26 13 1 Bangladesh Ghana New Guinea 32 20 South Malawi 10 Cote d'lvoire Africa 14 Guinea-Bissau 29 Rwanda Tajikistan 33 17 Indonesia 36 Uzbekistan 8 Cameroon Peru 27 14 2 Belize Guinea-Bissau Tajikistan 33 21 Mauritania 11 Ethiopia 15 Haiti 30 Senegal Tanzania 34 18 Kenya 37 Vietnam 9 Congo 28 15 3 Benin Haiti Philippines Tanzania 34 22 Mozambique 12 Fiji 16 India 31 Somalia Uganda 35 19 Madagascar 38 Zambia 10 Cote d'lvoire Rwanda 29 16 4 Bhutan India Uganda 35 23 Myanmar 13 Ghana 32 South Africa 17 Indonesia 36 Uzbekistan 11 Ethiopia Senegal 30 17 5 Bolivia Indonesia 36 24 Nepal Uzbekistan 14 Guinea-Bissau 33 Tajikistan 18 Kenya 37 Vietnam 12 Fiji Somalia 31 18 6 Brazil Kenya Vietnam 37 25 Nigeria 15 Haiti 34 Tanzania 19 Madagascar 38 Zambia LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2020 20 Commitment Management & Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society External Evaluation & Action Plan Three Strategic Pillars > Global Sanitation & Hygiene 03 THREE Developing Products Suited to Local Conditions How SATO V-Trap Works Using Sato Operations to Nurture Human Capital and Promote Hygiene Education Adapting product development to local challenges and STRATEGIC PILLARS needs is a vital element of sustainable social business. We are collaborating with our partner companies and We are developing a range of SATO Toilet Systems that NGOs to establish regional production and sales systems. Tank are tailored to local sewage treatment methods and market A By driving the make-sell-use cycle, we seek to generate Three Strategic Pillars needs. In India, for example, we developed the SATO V-Trap regional employment and enable autonomous, continuous Internal 内部ユニット toilet to address local problems of clogging and timecomponents Tank improvements in sanitation conditions. B ● Global Sanitation & Hygiene consuming installation. One such job-creation initiative is the training of workers The Indian government promoted a twin-pit system, but who install SATO units and build toilet cubicles. Through ●W ater Conservation & Environmental Sustainability it was burdensome to switch from one pit to another, often training programs offered in collaboration with NGOs, we causing blockages in the mechanism. By replacing the support skill acquisition primarily among women and young ● Diversity & Inclusion タンク A タンク B タンク A タンク B standard Y-shaped piping with a V-shaped one, SATO V-Trap Tank AA Tank BB people. Reports in India showed a 200% increase in the タンク タンク toilet reduces the risk of clogging and requires approximately earnings of several women who received our training. 80% less water per flush than conventional toilets. India At the same time, we are working to drive people’s achieved its target of eliminating outdoor defecation by タンク A が awareness of the importance of sanitary toilet use. Unless 一杯になったら 棒で内部ユニットを回転させ、 2019, and our SATO V-Trap toilet has helped to boost the 使用するタンクを A から B に 切り替えて使用する they are used, installed toilets do not contribute to solving 内部ユニット ratio of toilet use there. sanitation issues. That is why we work with UNICEF and Internal NGOs to promote understanding of the importance of 内部ユニット components sanitation and toilet use. When collected waste reaches the capacity limit of タンク the tankAAが一杯になったら タンク Tank AA タンク Tank BB 棒で内部ユニットを回転させ、 Rotate the internal components 使用するタンクを with a bar to switchAtank から Bに from 切り替えて使用する A to B Installing SATO V-Trap toilet Training program LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2020 21 Commitment Management & Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society External Evaluation & Action Plan Three Strategic Pillars > Global Sanitation & Hygiene 03 THREE Partnerships BRAC, PSI, and Other NGOs Together with Japanese Customers Solving sanitation issues is not something that the LIXIL We work with experienced NGOs such as Bangladesh LIXIL Corporation launched the Toilets for All project in 2017 STRATEGIC PILLARS Group alone can achieve. Our initiatives rely on collaborative Rural Advancement Committee (BRAC) in Bangladesh to spread awareness of global hygiene issues in Japan and partnerships that utilize the strengths of various specialist and Population Services International (PSI) in Kenya to improve sanitation in developing countries. organizations, NGOs, and business partners. build the value chains that enable SATO installation, lobby Under the project, in 2017 and 2018, for each LIXIL Three Strategic Pillars governments to promote sanitation measures, and receive integrated shower toilet sold in Japan, LIXIL donated one UNICEF feedback on product development. of its SATO products to a developing country in Asia or ● Global Sanitation & Hygiene Africa. Through international organizations and NGOs, our ●W ater Conservation & In 2018, LIXIL Corporation and UNICEF formed the Make a JICA toilets were donated to priority groups of people in India, Environmental Sustainability Splash! global partnership to improve sanitation for children Tanzania, and Rwanda, as well as Rohingya refugee camps around the world. We launched the initiative in Ethiopia, The LIXIL Group signed a memorandum with Japan in Bangladesh. Donations totaled 410,000 units over the ● Diversity & Inclusion Kenya, and Tanzania to establish markets for hygiene-related International Cooperation Agency (JICA), the independent two-year period. goods and ensure the availability of affordable products for administrative agency that coordinates overseas In 2019, we donated a portion of the sales of our people lacking toilets. We are working to expand this marketdevelopment assistance for the government of Japan, to integrated shower toilets to UNICEF. The donation for the driven program. cooperate on the goals of improving sanitary environments full year totaled approximately JPY 26 million, which is being In Tanzania, we have been cooperating on a governmentand securing safe water in developing countries. This is the used to build the infrastructure to help install safe, sanitary driven campaign to ensure access to toilets for all of the first cooperative endeavor between a private company and toilets and to raise awareness of sanitary issues in local nation’s citizens by 2025. We will also promote similar JICA in this field, and we intend to accelerate progress by communities. campaigns in other countries. leveraging our mutual strengths. CR Toilets for All Project (P85) Toilet Board Coalition The LIXIL Group is a member of the Toilet Board Coalition, a global alliance of public and private sector partners that aims to develop sustainable solutions to the sanitation crisis. We assist with the running of the organization, mentor entrepreneurs who tackle sanitation problems, and engage in advocacy through the Toilet Board Coalition. LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2020 22 Commitment Management & Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society External Evaluation & Action Plan Three Strategic Pillars > Global Sanitation & Hygiene 03 THREE External Recognition Designing Toilets for the Future How Micro Flush Toilet System Works In December 2018, LIXIL Corporation received the DeputyIn 2018, LIXIL Corporation announced a partnership STRATEGIC PILLARS Chief’s Award, given by Japan’s Minister of Foreign Affairs, with the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation to develop and at the 2nd Japan SDGs Awards. The LIXIL Group’s efforts to commercialize the world’s first household reinvented toilet, tackle sanitation issues, including the development of SATO an off-grid system able to treat human waste without water Three Strategic Pillars products and the solving of challenges throughout the value or sewerage facilities. Many regions around the world lack chain, as well as advocacy in collaboration with NGOs and easy access to water, or face excessively expensive sewerage Drain Pump ● Global Sanitation & Hygiene international bodies, have been recognized through various installation and repair due to rapid urbanization. In such awards. areas, installing conventional flush toilets that require water ●W ater Conservation & Environmental Sustainability • Deputy-Chiefs’ Award given by Japan's Minister of Foreign and sewerage infrastructure is difficult. With a team of Sanitary sewage Re-use sewage water to carry waste Affairs, 2 Japan SDGs Award nd specialists in technology, design, and product development, storage tank ● Diversity & Inclusion • Grand Award, 2017 International Association for Universal LIXIL is leading the creation of experimental new toilet Design (IAUD) Awards (Toilets for All project) systems. • Innovation of the Year Award, Responsible Business We are also working to develop Micro Flush Toilet System How Portable Toilet System Works Awards (SATO) and Portable Toilet System, which aim to help solve issues in • Selection Committee Special Award, 7th Technology, cities and slums. Management and Innovation Awards (SATO) • 2018 Good Design Award (SATO) Collection Treatment • Red Dot Award 2018 (SATO V-Trap toilet) Station Site 2nd Japan SDGs Award ceremony LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2020 23 Commitment Management & Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society External Evaluation & Action Plan Three Strategic Pillars > Water Conservation & Environmental Sustainability 03 THREE WATER CONSERVATION & ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY Conserve water, energy, and other natural resources utilized in and by LIXIL products and services across the value chain from procurement through production, distribution, end use, and product disposal. STRATEGIC PILLARS Highlight Social Issues Progress Three Strategic Pillars World energy consumption 32% is consumed in buildings Those likely to experience water stress by 2050 4 billion people Global resource consumption Double by 2050 CO2 emissions from operational processes Target: (residential: 24%, commercial: 8%) (2 in 5) ● Global Sanitation & Hygiene Target 6.3% 30% ●W ater Conservation & reduction reduction Environmental Sustainability ● Diversity & Inclusion Zero Carbon and Circular Living CO2 By 2050, achieve net-zero carbon emissions from housing and lifestyle solutions as well as operations, and become a leading company based on FYE 2016 FYE 2020 FYE 2030 a model that preserves water and natural resources for future generations (base year) Our Journey Developed a Group-wide Our GHG reduction target was Target: environmental management and approved by the Science Based Net-zero promotion system, held a global meeting Targets initiative Endorsed the Task Force on carbon of the Environmental Committee Climate-related Financial Formulated Environmental emissions Disclosures (TCFD) Vision 2050, joined RE100 2016 2017 2018 2019 2030 2050 Formulated Environmental Set the 2020 medium-term Launched My Bottle Named on the CDP Water A List which recognizes Reduce carbon emissions Sustainability Principles and targets, promoted Promotion and companies exhibiting superior water resource 30% (v. FYE 2016) Environmental Vision 2030 environmental initiatives at THINK HEAT campaigns management for the second consecutive year each business base LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2020 24 Commitment Management & Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society External Evaluation & Action Plan Three Strategic Pillars > Water Conservation & Environmental Sustainability 03 THREE Background The 2015 Paris Agreement seeks to keep the rise in global LIXIL Group Environmental Vision 2050 STRATEGIC PILLARS average temperature well below 2°C above pre-industrial levels, and aims to limit that rise to 1.5°C. To achieve this, In FYE 2020, we formulated an environmental vision for the world must reduce CO2 and other greenhouse gas the LIXIL Group in the year 2050. Based on our Zero Three Strategic Pillars emissions to net zero by 2050. Carbon and Circular Living policy, by 2050, we aim to In addition, an estimated 800 million people around the reduce CO2 emissions from our business processes, ● Global Sanitation & Hygiene world today do not have access to safe drinking water. By products, and services to net zero, and be a leader in the 2050, over 40% of the world’s population won’t have access to field of conserving water and limited resources for future ●W ater Conservation & Environmental Sustainability necessary water supply due to the depletion of water resources. generations. Furthermore, global resource consumption is expected to ● Diversity & Inclusion more than double by 2050. To help change this situation, the world is gradually shifting from a one-way economy, which mines resources, makes products in large quantities, and eventually discards them, to a circular economy that Three Focus Areas to Achieve Our Vision closes resource loops. CLIMATE CHANGE MITIGATION AND ADAPTATION Our Approach & Strategy Achieve Net-Zero GHG Emissions through Our Business Operations, Products, and Services Modern lifestyles rely on large amounts of energy and resources. The LIXIL Group, which seeks to contribute to improving the comfort and lifestyles of people around WATER SUSTAINABILITY the world, plays a crucial role in conserving our global Enhance the Environmental Value of Water Resources by Saving, Circulating, and Purifying Water environment. We strive to minimize environmental impacts both in our operations and through eco-conscious products and services that fully draw on advanced technologies and know-how CIRCULAR ECONOMY related to life and living. We are also committed to partnering with various Help Transition to a Circular Economy and Preserve Natural Resources for Future Generations stakeholders to foster an environmentally sustainable future together. LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2020 25 Commitment Management & Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society External Evaluation & Action Plan Three Strategic Pillars > Water Conservation & Environmental Sustainability 03 THREE Three Focus Areas to Achieve Our Vision Targets for Realizing the Vision Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation The LIXIL Group has set and is now implementing mediummedium-term plans going forward will be aligned with our STRATEGIC PILLARS term environmental targets to be achieved by FYE 2021. Our Environmental Vision 2050. The energy consumed by LIXIL Group products during their end-use phase accounts for over 90% of CO2 emissions of FYE 2021 Targets Three Strategic Pillars the entire lifecycle of LIXIL products and services, from raw material procurement through to product disposal. At the Issues KPI 2020 medium-term targets (FYE 2021) 2030 targets*3 ● Global Sanitation & Hygiene LIXIL Group, we strive to reduce our environmental impact Improvement in Climate change CO2 emissions reduction environmental value and aim to achieve net zero CO2 emissions by 2050 by mitigation and attributable to Group products and Increase by 1.36 times (v. FYE 2016) ●W ater Conservation & of our products and adaptation services Environmental Sustainability offering eco-conscious products and services. services CO2 emissions from places of ● Diversity & Inclusion Reduce by 8% (v. FYE 2016) Reduce by 30% Water Sustainability business*1 Climate change Formulate KPIs/targets and implement mitigation and CO2 emissions form product use Reduce by 15% As a leading company in the water-related product industry, adaptation measures based on business plan providing products such as toilets, kitchen systems, preCO2 emission intensity per unit of fabricated bathrooms, and faucets, the LIXIL Group strives Environmental footprint Reduce by 5% (v. FYE 2016) output in the distribution process reduction from our to help achieve global water sustainability so that people can entire business process • Complete the water risk analysis of all get the most out of the water they use. Improvement in water usage production sites Water sustainability efficiency at high-water risk bases • Select high-risk sites, formulate KPIs/ targets, and implement measures Circular Economy • Japan & Europe: 95% Recycling ratio of waste collected Circular economy from places of business • Asia: 66% The LIXIL Group uses a variety of resources, including • North America: 40% metals, timber, resin, and ceramics. In order to use Coverage of the system 100% limited resources more sustainably, we promote circular Establishment of an environmental management system manufacturing practices that consider the entire product Number of environmental law 0 violations*2 lifecycle, from raw material procurement through to manufacturing, product use, and disposal. *1 CO2 conversion factors are published by each electricity company with which our sites have a contract (factors that include emissions from renewable energy sources, etc.) *2 Number of serious violations with penalty of operational suspension or fines *3 Mediumto long-term targets approved by the international Science Based Targets initiative LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2020 26 Commitment Management & Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society External Evaluation & Action Plan Three Strategic Pillars > Diversity & Inclusion 03 THREE DIVERSITY & INCLUSION Leverage the knowledge and perspectives of a diverse workforce as a key driver of growth and innovation. Improve quality of life for all people through our products and services, irrespective of their age, gender, and the level of disability. STRATEGIC PILLARS Highlight Social Issue 1 in 5 people Many of those will be living in Progress Three Strategic Pillars aged 60+ by 2050 elderly-only households Ratio of Female Participants in Stage 3 Research studies on supporting the daily lives of elderly people and people with disabilities of the Talent Acceleration Program (TAP) (FYE 2020) ● Global Sanitation & Hygiene Target for Next-Generation Leaders (selective training for young employees) ●W ater Conservation & (LIXIL Corporation, Japan) Research studies: 5 External announcements: 2 Inclusive for All Target Result Environmental Sustainability 100 Exhibited News from the Toilet ● Diversity & Inclusion 80 (AI-driven defecation-monitoring system for residents in elderly care By 2020, establish the culture of diversity and 60 facilities) as a reference technology at: inclusion within our organization and among all employees 37.5 40 29.2 33.3 • International Home Care and By 2030, ensure all products and services* are based on Rehabilitation Exhibition 2019 LIXIL s Universal Design concept 20 • Combined Exhibition of 20 20 20 AdvancedTechnologies (CEATEC) 2019 * Scope: Products and services in Japan (as of August 2019) 0 Our Journey Established Group-wide UD Strategy Introduced a fully updated version of Released Resilience Task Force to promote development of Well Life kitchen range adapted for easy Toilet for use even universal design products and services use from a seated position in a wheelchair in times of disasters 2012 2017 2018 2019 2030 Determined LIXIL Universal Design Policy Toilets for All project won International Set 2030 Universal Design targets Association for Universal Design (IAUD) award LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2020 27 Commitment Management & Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society External Evaluation & Action Plan Three Strategic Pillars > Diversity & Inclusion 03 THREE Background Our Approach & Strategy Many regions in the world are faced with an aging The LIXIL Group aims to encourage all employees to technology development, and public relations) to attend STRATEGIC PILLARS population. By 2050, one in five people are projected to be embrace a diversityand inclusion-driven culture by 2020. workshops to formulate advanced UD concepts: easy to over the age of 60, with most of them living either alone or In addition, we aim to ensure all our products and services understand, easy to use, safe and secure, and easy to with their spouse only. Approximately 15% of the world’s are based on LIXIL Universal Design concepts by 2030.* love. Based on these concepts, LIXIL will develop and offer Three Strategic Pillars population today also live with some degree of disability, and products and services that incorporate ideas from multiple this rate is increasing every year. *Scope: Products and services in Japan (as of August 2019) perspectives to enable all individuals of all ages to live full ● Global Sanitation & Hygiene Many people expect companies to develop products and and comfortable lives. ●W ater Conservation & services that can help improve the lives of a wide range of Universal Design Project Environmental Sustainability people, including the elderly and people with disabilities, as part of a universal quest to realize a sustainable society in In FYE 2018, the LIXIL Group established an exploratory ● Diversity & Inclusion which all people can actively participate. committee consisting of senior managers to promote UDThe LIXIL Group focuses its efforts on universal design related activities. The committee invited a diverse range (UD), a design philosophy that seeks to ensure everyone of members from different functions (design, marketing, can live comfortably, no matter who they are. UD allows as many people as possible to use a product, irrespective of WEB Universal Design (Japanese only) age, language, gender, ability or disability, or capability. We prize the wide-reaching knowledge and perspectives of a Easy to understand Intuitive Clear purpose diverse workforce, because they fuel growth and innovation, • Detectable by anyone • Can be properly recognized • Uncomplicated • Multi-sensory information, such as sight, hearing, and touch including UD advancement. Easy to use Easy to execute and operate Flexible Easy to • Simple to operate • Able to adapt along with changing physical capabilities and understand • Uses shapes and dimensions that support body movement and posture growing or aging families Intuitive • Uses layouts that follow the natural flow of movement • Able to select or add necessary functions Clear purpose • Ensures space needed to operate Easy to use Safe & secure Safe and secure Considerate of all people Child-friendly Easy to execute Considerate of • No physical or financial loss from incorrect use • Designs that consider children’s needs and operate all people Flexible Child-friendly • Minimal damage from accidents Easy to love Easy to love Can be used for a long time Encourages smiles Can be used for • High quality to support long-term use • Beautiful, pleasant designs a long time Encourages smiles • Easy to look after and keep clean over a long time • Demonstrates its functional beauty with every use • Designed to adapt to individual ways of living LIXIL Universal Design Policy LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2020 28 Commitment Management & Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society External Evaluation & Action Plan Three Strategic Pillars > Diversity & Inclusion 03 THREE Examples of Products and Services Well Life Kitchen: Easy to Use While Sitting Developing Guiding Blocks That Are Well-Designed equally visible but blends better with its surroundings. The STRATEGIC PILLARS and Easy to Visually Recognize new blocks went on sale in FYE 2018. In October 2018, LIXIL Corporation introduced a fully updated version of its wheelchair-adapted Well Life kitchen The LIXIL Group offers well-designed barrier-free products Three Strategic Pillars range. This includes sink and countertop dimensions that for public spaces. This includes the guiding blocks for are easier to use from a seated position. Our Well Life people with visual disabilities. Barrier-free experts encourage ● Global Sanitation & Hygiene kitchen also incorporates user feedback to facilitate steadier the placement of dark-yellow guiding blocks on all pathways, side-to-side movement in a wheelchair. This approach is but ambiance-sensitive designers tend to avoid using them ●W ater Conservation & Environmental Sustainability not only popular with wheelchair users, but also with many because the yellow shade stands out too much. This has elderly and other people who prefer to do their housework made it challenging to fulfill both parties’ needs. Therefore, ● Diversity & Inclusion from a less-tiring seated position. LIXIL Corporation developed new blocks to guide people with visual disabilities using a new cool-yellow color that is New cool-yellow color blocks Other Examples of LIXIL’s UD Products and Services WEB UD Ideas (Japanese only) Toilet Bathroom Bathroom Honoka-Light Push faucet vanity Wheelchair accessible vanity Stairs, corridors, Entrance, Public toilet entrances exterior Large remote Stairs with Slide system control slip prevention Kitchen Living room In town Hands-free faucet Non-rail sash Support rail UD WEB Well Life (Japanese only) LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2020 29 Commitment Management & Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society External Evaluation & Action Plan Three Strategic Pillars > Diversity & Inclusion 03 THREE A Toilet That Can Be Used as Always Even in Times of Natural Disasters Many people flood into emergency shelters when a STRATEGIC PILLARS The world is facing more natural disasters caused by disaster hits, so the toilet facilities should be sufficient in Received the Grand Award extreme weather events due to climate change. In number and quality. However, we can’t satisfy these needs at the Japan Resilience Awards 2019 Japan specifically, experts anticipate there will be a with our Resilience Toilet alone, so LIXIL Corporation is (corporate & industrial category) Three Strategic Pillars huge earthquake in the future. The need for disaster working together with other manufacturers that provide preparedness is becoming increasingly pressing. Sewage emergency toilets to help strengthen Japan’s emergency ● Global Sanitation & Hygiene disposal in times of natural disasters is just as vital to response capability. health as securing food and water. Conscious of this, LIXIL ●W ater Conservation & Environmental Sustainability Corporation has developed the innovative Resilience Toilet, which can be used in the same way as always even in times Refilled with water ● Diversity & Inclusion of natural disasters. In everyday life The Resilience Toilet can be used like a regular toilet USES 5L Can be used like a regular toilet. in everyday life. It has been designed to be comfortable, Compatiable with a bidet seat. 5L / flush easy to clean, and safe to use, and uses five liters of water on regular setting Simply turn Uses five liters per flush. the flush lever for a regular flush. During times of natural disasters, when after use water and other lifeline services have been disrupted, the volume of water required to flush can be switched to one liter without compromising its functionality. This toilet can be When water supply is disrupted used by people of all ages and genders, including those who The volume of water required to flush can be might require particular care. switched from five liters to one liter. USES Currently, we are marketing this toilet mainly to schools and gymnasiums that serve as emergency shelters when a A toilet people use in everyday life ensures 1L / flush* when water supply 1L disaster strikes, as well as to public buildings that serve as comfortable use even when water supply is disrupted. is disrupted disaster response centers. Rather than focusing solely on Easy to clean and safe to use. providing the Resilience Toilet itself, we are generally helping solve problems at emergency shelters by providing practical support regarding broad toilet-related issues that may arise * Uses one liter if you hold the lever for about one second. The volume of Can easily switch into 1L flush mode water actually used can vary depending on how you operate it. in times of disasters, such as how many toilets are required and how to operate them. We also hold disaster-response lectures in schools. LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2020 30 Commitment Management & Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society External Evaluation & Action Plan Three Strategic Pillars > Diversity & Inclusion 03 THREE Promoting Broader Understanding of Diversity Aiming to create a universally accessible society that enables LIXIL visits schools to conduct its Universal Design: Good STRATEGIC PILLARS people to live invigorating lives while respecting those around for One, Good for All program, which teaches children the International Association for Universal them, LIXIL offers education programs for elementary significance of universal design concepts. LIXIL employees Design (IAUD) Award* school students. As part of these educational programs, we create their own teaching materials and conduct lessons Three Strategic Pillars hold Universal Run: Sports Prosthesis Experience Class at for elementary school children. The program is designed LIXIL Corporation’s Toilets for All initiative won a elementary schools in Japan. to highlight examples of universal design in nearby streets Grand Award in the International Association for ● Global Sanitation & Hygiene We want as many people as possible to consider and and individual homes to deepen students’ understanding Universal Design (IAUD) Awards 2017. The project personally feel what universal access means by talking with of diversity in terms of gender, age, nationality, and ability was highly praised for its scope, scale, passion, and ●W ater Conservation & Environmental Sustainability people who wear artificial limbs and attending this program. and disability, and encourage them to think what they can implementation. The judges described the initiative To date, the program has attracted 16,600 children from do and how they can act on it. In FYE 2020, the program as “a life-saving innovation for those most in need in ● Diversity & Inclusion 233 schools (as of June 2020). attracted 904 children from 10 schools. developing countries that adds a new dimension to universal design.” * An initiative directed by the IAUD general incorporated foundation that awards groups and individuals who conduct or propose remarkable activities designed to help develop a society in which the greatest number of people can live comfortably. Diversity of LIXIL Group Employees The LIXIL Group aims to encourage all employees to embrace a diversityand inclusion-driven culture by 2020, and to build a corporate environment that encourages the involvement of a diverse range of personnel. Read on to find out more. WEB U  niversal Run: Sports Prosthesis Experience Class WEB Universal Design: Good for One, Good for All (Japanese only) (Japanese only) CR Diversity & Equal Opportunity (P34) LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2020 31 Commitment Management & Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society External Evaluation & Action Plan 04 OUR PEOPLE OUR PEOPLE We strive to respect the individuality of all employees and create a rewarding working environment. Our People Diversity & Equal Opportunity Rewarding Workplaces Talent Development Occupational Health & Safety LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2020 32 Commitment Management & Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society External Evaluation & Action Plan Our People > Highlight 04 Highlight Target Build a strong corporation and workplace where all employees can achieve their fullest potential. OUR PEOPLE Diversity & Equal Opportunity Talent Development Ratio of women among Number of employees participating in the Talent Acceleration Program (TAP) Our People regularly recruited new hires 100 ( % ) for next-generation leaders 1500 (people) 80 1300 69 1195 1265 63 1200 Diversity & Equal Opportunity 60 1078 Target 58 Target 900 30% Rewarding Workplaces 1300 40 over 31.5 33.2 30.5 30.0 600 Talent Development over 20 people 300 (LIXIL Corporation, Japan only) 0 Occupational Health & Safety (LIXIL Corporation, Japan only) FYE 2018 FYE 2019 FYE 2020 FYE 2021 0 (Target) FYE 2017 FYE 2018 FYE 2019 FYE 2021 ■ Ratio Number (Target) Rewarding Workplaces Occupational Health & Safety Group-wide coverage of global employee awareness survey LTIFR (Directly and indirectly hired employees) 1.5 (%) 1.2 1.15 1.2 1.2 100 92 1.02 88 90 90 0.9 Progress 75 Result 0.6 0.54 0.52 0.46 0.44 92% 0.44 50 0.3 0 25 FYE 2017 FYE 2018 FYE 2019 FYE 2020 (LIXIL Corporation, Japan only) 0 LTIFR (Lost Time Injuries Frequency Rate): LIXIL Industry average (Japanese manufacturing) Number of occupational injury cases involving days FYE 2014 FYE 2016 FYE 2018 FYE 2020 away from work / Total working hours × 1,000,000 Source: Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare's Survey on Industrial Accidents (Surveys on establishments (with 100 or * Survey conducted every two years more employees) and general construction) LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2020 33 Commitment Management & Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society External Evaluation & Action Plan Our People > Diversity & Equal Opportunity 04 OUR PEOPLE DIVERSITY & EQUAL OPPORTUNITY The LIXIL Group is committed to respecting diversity and recruiting and developing high caliber talent across the Group. We believe that harnessing the intelligence and perspectives of our diverse workforce is critical to driving growth and innovation. Our Approach United under the LIXIL Diversity & Inclusion Declaration, Diversity and Inclusion Statement the LIXIL Group embraces diversity in gender, age, race, Our People nationality, values, background, etc., and turns the The LIXIL Group issued this emergency Diversity and Inclusion Statement in July 2020: energy and creativity generated by diverse talent into Diversity & Equal Opportunity a source of strength. We aim to furnish a comfortable and friendly culture and working environment for all, “We are at a point in time where we all, as individuals As a global company with operations in over 150 Rewarding Workplaces enabling employees to approach difficult challenges with and as companies, are forced to face some difficult countries, we have committed ourselves to treating Talent Development an entrepreneurial spirit, and be fairly evaluated for their truths on issues of diversity, equality, and inclusion. The everyone fairly and equally. However, we must reflect Occupational Health & Safety performance. tragic death of George Floyd and the subsequent events, and assess if we are truly doing all that we can to ensure demonstrations, and actions in the US and across the equality and tolerance within our company and with our Our System globe serve as a stark reminder that we must do more as stakeholders.” society to put an end to racial injustices and inequality. We set up our Global Diversity and Inclusion department in FYE 2020. In the first year, we analyzed our current level of diversity and inclusion worldwide. Going forward, The statement includes some concrete policies we intend to implement. The LIXIL Group remains committed to we will determine a unified global diversity and inclusion considering what we need to do to be able to solve these issues and to acting upon whatever initiatives we determine. strategy, set targets, and implement measures to deal with relevant issues in individual countries and regions. Examples of Our Commitments Accelerating diversity in Strengthening measures to Demonstrating our commitments representation, and enhancing the embed equality and inclusivity not only within LIXIL, but also to hiring and promotion of diverse across the organization, in order enhancing focus on inclusion among talent at all levels. to retain diverse talent within the stakeholders, including holding organization. those with whom we do business accountable to our standards. PDF LIXIL Diversity and Inclusion Statement (195KB) LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2020 34 Commitment Management & Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society External Evaluation & Action Plan Our People > Diversity & Equal Opportunity 04 OUR PEOPLE Gender & Age Empowering Women in the Workplace Family & Life Supporting a Healthy Work-Life Balance Promoting the active participation of female employees is paths and support structures with their managers and At the LIXIL Group, the executive management team actively an essential part of creating an environment in which each sustain a fulfilling career after they return to work. supervises the creation of a rewarding working environment employee can demonstrate their own individual strengths We have also set relevant regional targets for increasing in which each and every employee can perform vigorously to through their work. At the LIXIL Group, the CEO is leading the percentage of women working in LIXIL Water Technology their full potential. Our People our commitment to encouraging the full participation of (LWT) Americas, LIXIL Asia, and other locations outside LIXIL Corporation is committed to enhancing the female employees. Japan, and are making efforts to achieve the targets. These necessary systems and cultivating the right atmosphere to Diversity & Equal Opportunity We consider a diverse range of people, including women, include, for example, the percentage of women in each support a good work-life balance, enabling employees to in our succession planning for major positions within the professional class or ethnic group. maintain a high level of performance throughout different Rewarding Workplaces Group. We also set a 20% target for female participation life stages. We have introduced a variety of new systems, Talent Development in the young employee grade of LIXIL Corporation’s Talent including telecommuting, hourly based paid holidays, and Occupational Health & Safety Acceleration Program (TAP) to nurture our next generation of corporate managers, and we achieve that target every year. Furthermore, the number of female managers in LIXIL Number and Composition Ratio of Female Managers ★ Number of Maternity Leave Users ★ Corporation has risen from 22 (0.9%) in March 2012 to 171 (Persons) (%) (Persons) 103.5 (%) (5.7%) in March 2020. 900 14.1 15 400 99.4 97.2 100 13.9 14.0 We are also working to create an environment where 819 813 93.0 96.0 780 91.8 female employees can consistently develop their careers 600 10 300 300 75 even if they take time off for life events such as childbirth. 249 257 As part of this effort, we have developed the Mamap 6.0 5.6 300 5.8 5 200 50 career-building tool for working mothers. Our aim here is to encourage female employees preparing to take maternity 220 213 219 0 0 100 198 169 176 25 or childcare leave to use this tool to explore potential career FYE 2018 FYE 2019 FYE 2020 Composition ratio of women among managers (LIXIL Group total) 0 0 Composition ratio of women among managers (LIXIL Group in Japan) FYE 2018 FYE 2019 FYE 2020 Number of female managers (LIXIL Group total) Return to work ratio (LIXIL Group total) Number of female managers (LIXIL Group in Japan) Return to work ratio (LIXIL Corporation) Scope: The entire Group (Excludes Permasteelisa Group. FYE 2020 data also excludes Number of users (LIXIL Group total) consolidated subsidiaries in Japan with 100 or less directly hired employees.) Number of users (LIXIL Corporation) * Directly hired employees only, data collected based on the qualification system used at each operating company, as of March 31 of each fiscal year. * Directly hired employees in Japan only (FYE 2020 data excludes consolidated subsidiaries with 100 or less employees.) * Number of employees who started maternity leave during each fiscal year LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2020 35 Commitment Management & Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society External Evaluation & Action Plan Our People > Diversity & Equal Opportunity 04 OUR PEOPLE career return systems that facilitate the reemployment of Number of Child-Care Leave Users ★ Number of Nursing-Care Leave Users ★ employees who gave up work due to various reasons such as childbirth, childcare, or nursing care commitments, (Persons) (%) (Persons) 106.3 (%) or relocation because of their partner’s transfer. We also 100.0 100.0 400 100.0 100.0 100.0 100 20 100 99.5 21 Our People subsidize extended daycare fees and fees for employees’ 97.9 97.9 98.2 95.7 17 6 17 92.4 children to attend unlicensed daycare centers. More male 300 311 75 15 75 7 4 Diversity & Equal Opportunity employees whose partners have just had a baby are using 263 7 11 249 our Papa Childcare Leave system thanks to the newly 11 Rewarding Workplaces 200 50 10 50 available extended leave and flexible scheduling options, Talent Development and more users are further extending their childcare leave 304 252 238 15 13 100 25 5 25 Occupational Health & Safety after taking leave for the number of days available under the 10 Papa Childcare Leave system. 0 0 0 0 LIXIL Water Technology (LWT) & LIXIL Housing Technology FYE 2018 FYE 2019 FYE 2020 FYE 2018 FYE 2019 FYE 2020 (LHT) Asia (GROHE Sanitary Products Shanghai) forbids employees from doing 36 or more hours of overtime a month Return to work ratio (Male, LIXIL Group total) Return to work ratio (LIXIL Group total) Return to work ratio (Female, LIXIL Group total) Number of users (Male, LIXIL Group total) to promote a strong work-life balance. Return to work ratio (Female, LIXIL Corporation) Number of users (Female, LIXIL Group total) Number of users (Male, LIXIL Group total) * Directly hired employees in Japan only (FYE 2020 data excludes those working at Number of users (Female, LIXIL Group total) consolidated subsidiaries with 100 or less employees) * Directly hired employees in Japan only (FYE 2020 data excludes those working at Percentage of Staff Still Working 1 Year After Childcare Leave consolidated subsidiaries with 100 or less employees) FYE 2018 FYE 2019 FYE 2020 Male 100.0% 100.0% 88.9% Female 93.1% 96.8% 96.8% Total 93.3% 96.9% 96.4% *Current employment of LIXIL Corporation’s permanent employees in Japan at the end of the business period one year after their return to work. LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2020 36 Commitment Management & Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society External Evaluation & Action Plan Our People > Diversity & Equal Opportunity 04 OUR PEOPLE  ulture & Identity C Fostering a Friendly Corporate Culture towards Sexual Minorities Then in September 2019, the LIXIL Group endorsed Encouraging Employee Activities Since April 2017, the LIXIL Group has been working to the “Support the Recruitment and Retention of Talent by create a friendly working environment for sexual minority Instituting Marriage Equality in Japan” viewpoint published The LIXIL Group has established frameworks to support Our People employees. In March 2019, LIXIL Corporation made some by the American Chamber of Commerce in Japan (ACCJ) independent employee activities. improvements to its human resources system and working recommending that the Japanese government extend the LIXIL Corporation launched the LIXIL Diversity Network Diversity & Equal Opportunity environments. For instance, we have started treating sameright to marry to sexual minority couples. in 2017, which encourages employees to get together sex partners as dependents and applying the relevant voluntarily to share and solve their problems and to improve Rewarding Workplaces congratulation or condolence leave and financial payments, Promoting Multi-Cultural Understanding individual skills. In addition to the Women’s Network Talent Development arranging times and locations for undergoing health checks, launched in 2013, we have created four more networks for Occupational Health & Safety and recognizing employees’ preferences for either male or LIXIL Corporation factories accept foreign-national apprentices. disabilities, sexual minorities, people involved in childcare female uniforms. To enable these apprentices to work enthusiastically in Japan, or nursing care life stages, or those interested in other We are also promoting internal activities to expand we believe it is important to build better communication, so issues. For instance, we run LIXIL Women’s Sales Group understanding and support. In FYE 2018, we created a we hold events to help promote understanding of Japanese to help increase the active participation of saleswomen in series of online lectures relating to sexual diversity and have culture and Japanese language study sessions. the traditionally male-dominated construction industry and been encouraging employees to watch them. We seek to It is essential for a global company to understand different to provide a venue for proactively sharing and solving any increase the number of allies who understand and support cultures in order to foster strong communication. In that issues or problems that women in particular might have. sexual minorities through venues such as study sessions, and spirit, LWT Americas conducted a program to improve distribute Ally badges and stickers to employees who support employees’ understanding of values and work procedures in this initiative. We encourage allies to share information through Japan, where the LIXIL Group headquarter is located. the LIXIL Ally network and seek to deepen understanding by arranging opportunities to interact with sexual minorities. Encouraging the Promotion to Management Positions Thanks to these efforts, in March 2019, we achieved our target of having two or more allies in each of LIXIL Corporation’s 86 LWT South Africa selects staff who have potential leadership bases in Japan with 50 or more employees. qualities from among its factory workers and from particular ethnic groups who have traditionally found themselves in a disadvantageous position and are underrepresented in current management positions. These employees join a Future Leadership Program designed to develop the necessary skills to Sexual minority-friendly logo advance to management positions in the future. LIXIL Women’s Sales Group LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2020 37 Commitment Management & Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society External Evaluation & Action Plan Our People > Diversity & Equal Opportunity 04 OUR PEOPLE In addition, our Mimishiru team, run primarily by employees with hearing disabilities, offers sign language opportunities, WING NIJI has been undertaking many initiatives to explore the type of environments and conditions with mental disorders and seeking to make various efforts and considerations to improve working environments to suit classes for hearing people to enable all employees to work that would enable people with and without disabilities to the capabilities and characteristics of individual employees. enthusiastically whatever their hearing ability. work together most effectively. For instance, the office For instance, we ask people who are prone to anxiety to do In FYE 2018, LWT Americas also set up employee introduced software that increases the font size for people tasks at their own pace, or leave an empty desk in front of networks for women, multi-cultural employees, or employees with impaired eyesight and adjustable-height desks for an employee who gets distracted by other people around Our People currently involved in childcare or nursing care, so that wheelchair users. them or allow them to work in a free space. employees from diverse backgrounds can always find a LIXIL Corporation is also strengthening company-wide In May 2016, LIXIL Corporation was certified by Japan’s Diversity & Equal Opportunity mentor and never feel alone or isolated. In terms of concrete efforts, including introducing sign language interpretation in Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare as a leading activities, we broadcasted a panel discussion held to training sessions and other meetings and putting subtitles on company in the active employment of persons with mental Rewarding Workplaces coincide with International Women’s Day to all our business intranet videos for employees with hearing disabilities. and other disabilities. We aim to help create a social Talent Development bases, and we also held discussions with our product Since 2012, we have been proactively employing people structure in which people with disabilities can participate Occupational Health & Safety development and marketing departments on topics such actively by sharing these initiatives with other companies as developing products for mothers looking after children, Number and Percentage of Employees with Disabilities ★ and government institutions. and designing communication for people from Asian (Persons) (%) 2.54 backgrounds. 1,250 2.39 2.43 2.50 * Calculated based on the Employment Rate System for Persons with Disabilities by the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare. 1,000 2.29 2.26 2.33 2.00 Disability 823 FYE 2020 human resource performance data indicated with ★ have 762 784 been assured by a third party. Employing People with Disabilities 750 1.50 500 1.00 DATA Scope and details Many employees with disabilities work alongside those (Supplementary Publication: Databook / 581KB) 250 0.50 without disabilities in the LIXIL Group because we have 438 458.5 437 developed inclusive environments in different workplaces, 0 0 from R&D to production, sales administration, and planning FYE 2018 FYE 2019 FYE 2020 management, to suit each individual’s specific capabilities. Employment rate (LIXIL Group total) As of June 1st, 2019, 458.5 people with disabilities were Employment rate (LIXIL Corporation) Number of employees with disabilities (LIXIL Group total) employed across LIXIL Corporation, representing 2.33% Number of employees with disabilities (LIXIL Corporation) of the workforce.* In 2014, LIXIL Corporation launched its * Directly hired employees in Japan only (FYE 2020 data excludes those working at consolidated subsidiaries with 100 or less employees) WING NIJI office that focuses on employment of people with * LIXIL Corporation data for FYE 2018 and FYE 2019 include Senior Life Company Ltd. disabilities. In addition to supporting people with different * Employee numbers on June 1 of each fiscal year. However, the numbers of employees with disabilities for FYE 2018 and FYE 2019 are the numbers recorded on March 31 disabilities to perform their work assignments, conducting of respective years. * The percentages were calculated based on the Employment Rate System for Persons career aptitude evaluations, and offering job development with Disabilities issued by the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare. Job instruction at WING NIJI LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2020 38 Commitment Management & Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society External Evaluation & Action Plan Our People > Rewarding Workplaces 04 OUR PEOPLE REWARDING WORKPLACES The LIXIL Group seeks to create a fair and rewarding workplace, develop a strong and cohesive corporate culture, and foster an open atmosphere between the union and the company. Our Approach The LIXIL Group strives to create an environment that Promoting More Flexible and Diverse Working Styles encourages employee diversity, inspires pride in the Our People company, and enables each employee to maximize their In FYE 2020, the LIXIL Group launched a new comprehensive human resources program to revitalize its productivity and potential. As part of this, we have been business in Japan called Kawaranaito LIXIL, which includes a drive to change working styles. We strive to Diversity & Equal Opportunity focusing on improving our workstyles and revising our create business environments that enable employees to communicate openly and equally and adopt the human resources systems to foster employee enthusiasm most efficient working style to suit a particular situation. Rewarding Workplaces and motivation. This includes encouraging employees to Talent Development take paid holidays, offering more comprehensive childcare Occupational Health & Safety and nursing care support, and promoting proactive personal Teleworking System Reform career development. We have expanded our work-from-home system to include satellite offices. We are also promoting new, diverse, and productive working styles that enable employees to flexibly choose where and when they work, and what tools they want to employ Our System depending on the type of work that they do and their individual work-life balance. When launching the new telework system in FYE 2020, we abolished the previous upper limit on the number of days an employee could work remotely so the system The LIXIL Group is evolving rapidly. In order to further could be employed more flexibly. We have also strengthened our IT and other systems to cope with the gradual increase in the integrate employees and become One LIXIL, it is important number of employees opting to use the telework system. for us to understand the circumstances of each organization and actively incorporate employees’ views when seeking to Change Our Working Style! NEXT further improve working environments and building both top-down and bottom-up systems. LIXIL Corporation has promoted fresh employee thinking and human resource measures through its Change our Working Style! campaign. In addition to the telework system, we have implemented various measures to make flexible working styles more feasible, such as encouraging employees to take more paid leave, relaxing flextime conditions, and enhancing our IT infrastructure. The results of our FYE 2020 employee opinion survey suggest that our efforts are starting to pay off, with the satisfaction score for work-life balance increasing compared to the previous survey. Going forward, we will develop Change Our Working Style! campaign into Change Our Working Style! NEXT to help employees utilize adapted systems to work more efficiently. LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2020 39 Commitment Management & Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society External Evaluation & Action Plan Our People > Rewarding Workplaces 04 OUR PEOPLE Improving Understanding of LIXIL Behaviors Employee Opinion Surveys Preventing Overwork We conduct biennial opinion surveys of all employees The LIXIL Group emphasizes working styles that help We work to ensure that employees understand the three worldwide who are under direct employment contracts. employees achieve high output efficiently. To that aim, top LIXIL Behaviors, which serve as a guideline on how The surveys had been previously conducted separately managers are proactively seeking to improve productivity by individual LIXIL Group employees think and act in their within each Group company, but we combined them into eradicating long working hours and ensuring a healthy workOur People daily work. To help that process, LIXIL Corporation set up one common survey in FYE 2016. life balance. an internal social media group called Behaviors Lounge in In the third survey conducted in FYE 2020, we collected LIXIL Corporation provides information on time Diversity & Equal Opportunity which we conduct relay interview with our CEO and other opinions from 92% of target employees in 21 different management to all employees to help increase awareness chief officers, and offered special menus associated with languages. That’s a total of 55,000 responses. The results of the need to work efficiently. Clarifying the definition Rewarding Workplaces each of the three behaviors in our staff cafeterias. collected from major global organizations were then of working hours is helping improve the quality of time Talent Development reported to management and employees. We have also management. Employees who consistently work long hours Occupational Health & Safety introduced an online system that enables them to view and are interviewed by an industrial physician to prevent any analyze each organization’s results, so that they can gain consequent issues with their mental or physical health. After a solid understanding of their organization’s strengths and we started encouraging employees to take five consecutive weaknesses and develop action plans. We will continuously days of annual leave at a time, and to take leave to celebrate improve grassroots initiatives and create an easy, special personal anniversaries, the usage of paid leave has comfortable working environment by taking various actions, been increasing since FYE 2015, exceeding 50% in FYE 2018. both big and small, from holding assemblies to encourage inter-organization communication to having discussions centered around senior management messages to deepen Relay interview with our chief officers understanding of our management policies. Average Monthly Overtime Hours per Employee ★ Paid Leave Days Taken per Employee ★ (Hours) (Days) 25 23.6 22.9 15 21.8 20 10.5 10.4 10.9 18.3 17.5 17.1 10 15 9.5 9.7 5 8.1 10 FYE 2018 FYE 2019 FYE 2020 FYE 2018 FYE 2019 FYE 2020 LIXIL Group total LIXIL Group total LIXIL Corporation LIXIL Corporation * Directly hired employees in Japan only (FYE 2020 data excludes those working at * Directly hired employees in Japan only (FYE 2020 data excludes those working at CR LIXIL CORE and Behaviors (P12) consolidated subsidiaries with 100 or less employees) consolidated subsidiaries with 100 or less employees) LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2020 40 Commitment Management & Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society External Evaluation & Action Plan Our People > Rewarding Workplaces 04 OUR PEOPLE Labor-Management Relationship Creating Local Employment Opportunities The LIXIL Group believes that building mutual trust between LIXIL Corporation supports the expansion of employment the union and the company based on an equal and opportunities in regions in Japan where it operates by responsible relationship helps create a fair and rewarding employing technical college and high-school graduates as workplace and leads to improved business performance. local permanent employees at its plants. Our People LIXIL Corporation has established a labor union which adopts a union shop system for permanent employees of the Local Employees Hired at LIXIL Plants Diversity & Equal Opportunity company, and achieved a membership rate of 100% (as of (Persons) March 31, 2020). 250 Rewarding Workplaces The fundamental labor-management agreement includes 220 230 Talent Development 200 216 items relating to health and safety and working environments. 200 200 200 Occupational Health & Safety Labor-management consultations are conducted in the form of regular discussions and information-sharing on business status, 150 working conditions, health and safety issues, etc., and the union and the company work together to resolve any issues. When 100 working conditions and/or other systems are newly introduced or revised as a result of labor-management consultations, the union and the company cooperate to ensure employees are aware of 50 FYE 2018 FYE 2019 FYE 2020 the changes. This is facilitated by posting the information on the Target Result company intranet, passing the information down through relevant * LIXIL Corporation plants in Japan only general administration departments, and distributing copies of the Union Guide compiled by the union to all union members. FYE 2020 human resource performance data indicated with ★ have been assured by a third party. DATA Scope and details (Supplementary Publication: Databook / 581KB) LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2020 41 Commitment Management & Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society External Evaluation & Action Plan Our People > Talent Development 04 OUR PEOPLE TALENT DEVELOPMENT The LIXIL Group supports a systematic and structured talent development program, and encourages all employees to proactively develop their own careers. Our Approach The LIXIL Group pursues talent development from a longGlobal Challenge Program: Nurturing Future Global Human Resources term perspective in order to nurture personnel who can Our People expand the LIXIL brand well into the future. As part of that We launched our Global Challenge Program with the aim of finding and nurturing globally minded, active process, we focus on training next-generation leaders and talent and supporting self-motivated career-building. The program gives employees of LIXIL Corporation a Diversity & Equal Opportunity employees after evaluating global LIXIL talent based on chance to work in an office outside Japan for a year. future business needs. To create a working environment Rewarding Workplaces in which all employees can work with high engagement, Building Bridges between Japan and Talent Development Training Future Human Resources we support career development from two angles: strategic Other Global Offices Occupational Health & Safety company-driven career development, and self-motivated We offer opportunities for international work experience to As the LIXIL Group continues its global expansion, the career development managed by individual employees. nurture our people to develop the knowledge, experience, employees dispatched to overseas bases to work together career independence, capability, and adaptability required for with local staff play an extremely important role in helping our future global business. build a closer relationship with the head office and promote Our System mutual understanding and cooperation across the Group. Selecting Primarily Young Employees After returning to Japan, dispatched employees share The LIXIL Group holds People and Organization through Open Recruitment their experiences and what they learned with colleagues Development (POD) conferences with its CEOs in all in Japan, so their personal insights can be more broadly major global organizations, and creates an annual nextEach year, we offer open recruitment opportunities to all incorporated into daily business routines. generation training plan to cover key positions and help employees (excluding managers) via our intranet. Over 40 employees, primarily in their twenties, apply each year. They achieve our Medium-term Plan. From FYE 2019, we have undergo selection procedures including an interview conducted created a list of approximately 600 potential successors in English with an office outside Japan, and selected for 160 major Group positions worldwide. This enables us applicants are then dispatched overseas. We sent the second to ensure business continuity even in times of emergency group of employees (14 persons) to five countries (Thailand, and to build a future-looking system for strategically the Philippines, China, the US, and Germany) in FYE 2019. selecting successors. We devise training plans for each We plan to send the third set of employees in FYE 2021. Each dispatched employee creates their own career plan prior to of the listed successors that are designed to build their departure, and receives regular advice and support through individual strengths and address development areas interviews with the Japan office and mentors, enabling them to by providing business assignments and job transfer grow through their international on-the-job training. opportunities and offering mentor and leadership training. LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2020 42 Commitment Management & Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society External Evaluation & Action Plan Our People > Talent Development 04 OUR PEOPLE Overview of Talent Development LIXIL Training System Company-wide: improving fundamental skills Company / division-specific: improving expertise Next-generation education LIXIL Corporation’s talent development programs are designed for employees in all layers to improve fundamental ❶ ❷ ❸ skills, develop stronger expertise, and grow as nextEssential Career-support training Company / function-specific trainings Education for selected employees generation managers. We have three types of virtual skills New manager training Our People educational institutions, which are all intrinsically linked. trainings S2/Es2 grade employee training LHTJ TAP-1*2 Young employee training LWTJ Common TAP-2 for year 1, 2 and 3 employees training Diversity & Equal Opportunity 1 Basic School for Improving Fundamental Skills LBTJ for sales reps TAP-3 New employee orientation training LJC Sponsoring EMBA candidates Rewarding Workplaces This training system is designed to help employees at each level Finance Temporary training in improve fundamental skills and offers learning opportunities to match Distance learning IT different business sectors Talent Development Optional their enthusiasm for learning so they can acquire the necessary trainings Online courses HR Occupational Health & Safety Open training … competencies. Our communication skills training for each year group, in particular, focuses on developing the skills required to EnglishIntensive English-language training foster flat communications and an open corporate culture. language English communication training trainings English language (English conversation, TOEIC) 2 Professional College for Improving Specialist Skills *1 Planned and organized by individual companies/functions *2 Talent Acceleration Program Aimed at supporting talent development Each division offers its own training opportunities to Basic School Professional College * 1 Next-Generation Seminars improve specialist knowledge, with the aim of improving the comprehensive strength and specialist expertise of our business divisions and functional departments. Training and Education Support Programs Conducted in FYE 2020 3 Next-Generation Seminars to Nurture Future Item Training Summary Participants Company Leaders New employee training Basic training for employees newly entering the company 389 Our Talent Acceleration Program (TAP) consists of three subprograms, and is designed to help employees in their twenties to Corporate position-specific training Training to develop skills and capabilities required at each position level 1,393 forties foster management skills, a managerial mindset, and an Talent Acceleration Program (TAP) Training to nurture next-generation management personnel 72 entrepreneurial mindset, all from an early stage. We also offer an overseas MBA study program to help employees with managerial Management training Training for employees being promoted to management positions 373 experience to enhance management skills and develop an Training in each division to develop skills and capabilities respectively required for product international outlook. Division training 38,339 development, production, sales, and other lines of work * Scope: LIXIL Corporation only. Talent Acceleration Program (TAP) covers LIXIL Corporation and its subsidiaries. LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2020 43 Commitment Management & Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society External Evaluation & Action Plan Our People > Talent Development 04 OUR PEOPLE Offering Diverse Educational Programs Career Development Support communicating what they expect from individuals. Managers also hold regular one-on-one interviews with their employees LIXIL Corporation is strengthening career development LIXIL Corporation’s career-support training programs, started during each evaluation period to foster motivation and and training for employees of all ages as part of its in FYE 2017, are developed for all managers based on the mutual understanding. To secure fair evaluations, we share comprehensive human resource program, Kawaranaito understanding that the best supporters for realizing employees’ our policies and approach to the evaluation process with our LIXIL, to revitalize its business in Japan. In FYE 2020, we career ambitions are their managers. The programs provide employees through the Personnel Evaluation System Manual Our People launched the LIXIL MANABO! learning management system managers the right mindset and skills for helping staff develop and position-specific training programs. as part of our drive to build an environment in which any their careers, as well as for solving daily management concerns. Performance Evaluation Flow Diversity & Equal Opportunity employees can study whenever they want to. In addition, we support both individual and organizational LIXIL Water Technology (LWT) Americas offers a growth through our open-recruitment job posting system for PE: every half year Draft theme and objectives Rewarding Workplaces BE: o nce at the comprehensive LWTA University training program to satisfy internal open positions. This seeks to encourage the crossbeginning of each Talent Development a diverse range of employee needs. In addition to classroom functional movement of personnel, and to ensure the optimum fiscal year Agreement on theme and objectives Occupational Health & Safety trainings, the program uses multiple resources such as placement of employees in order to match the needs of specific Self-assessment webinars, videos, and e-books to prepare a wide selection business units with employee ambitions. of courses, ranging from general courses on fundamental Initial performance review interview business skills such as leadership and management, Evaluation Framework Initial Initial performance review meeting through to specialized courses in specific fields such as Initial performance review compliance, environment, occupational health and safety, To ensure growth and positive results are fairly rewarded, and product knowledge. LWT EMENA focuses on expanding employees of all major LIXIL Group companies review their Second performance review meeting PE: every half year Second Second performance review its e-learning programs so that employees across a wide performance against their goals with their direct manager, BE: o nce at the end of each fiscal year geographical area can take the courses. Employees can and are evaluated by at least two managers at the end of Third performance review meeting Third choose from online learning programs on various topics from each fiscal year. Third performance review product-related knowledge, leadership, to compliance. Under its evaluation framework revised in October 2019, LIXIL Corporation assesses employees’ performance in two Determination of final review rating Annual Training Hours and Costs per Employee (FYE 2020) ways: through evaluation on individual performance over Assessment feedback the past half year, and through behavior evaluation to help Name of Company Training Hours Training Costs nurture employees and encourage their personal growth. All LIXIL Corporation 22.9 hours ★ 66,474 Yen ★ * PE and BE refer to performance evaluation and behavior evaluation, employees assess their own achievements against objectives respectively LIXIL Group 11.27 hours 22,223 Yen set at the beginning of the relevant evaluation period and FYE 2020 human resource performance data indicated with ★ have been * Scope: Directly hired employees only (Excludes Permasteelisa Group. determine final review rating by going through an evaluation assured by a third party. FYE 2020 data also excludes those working at consolidated subsidiaries process. Managers seek to nurture their employees by giving in Japan with 100 or less directly hired employees.) DATA Scope and details * Training hours include online learning feedback in interviews on each employee’s performance and (Supplementary Publication: Databook / 581KB) LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2020 44 Commitment Management & Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society External Evaluation & Action Plan Our People > Occupational Health & Safety 04 OUR PEOPLE OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY The LIXIL Group has built a Group-wide occupational health and safety management system to protect all employees, and is working to expand its scope. Our Approach occupational health and safety, all with the aim of achieving Anzen Dojo ongoing improvements. The LIXIL Group, in our Group Charter of Corporate LIXIL Corporation has set up an Anzen Dojo where visitors Behavior, commits to promoting “the mental and physical PDF  LIXIL Group Occupational Health and can simulate past occupational accidents. Fifty employees Our People well-being of all workers by prioritizing safety to realize Safety Principles (41KB) from inside and outside Japan visit the Anzen Dojo 10 times an ideal working environment without any work-related a year. Each technology business also boasts its own Anzen Diversity & Equal Opportunity accidents.” As for the measures we are pursuing to ensure Efforts to Eradicate Work-Related Accidents Dojo offering consecutive training sessions for new hires and zero work-related accidents and zero occupational illnesses, transferred employees. Rewarding Workplaces we have introduced an occupational health and safety In order to prevent work-related accidents, all employees Talent Development management system and implemented a PDCA approach in the LIXIL Group are encouraged to comply thoroughly Forklift safety competition Occupational Health & Safety to help prevent accidents at work. We also promote health with the rules. We also establish systems that enable each management for greater corporate value by enhancing employee to predict danger and take action to prevent Our logistics department held its seventh forklift safety employee health. accidents from happening. competition in FYE 2020. Twenty employees from all over Japan competed in the competition designed to Our System Safety Meetings promote safe driving and raise safety awareness across the workspace. Our occupational health and safety management system is We hold cross-technology safety meetings three times a based on the Occupational Health and Safety Assessment year to share and help develop positive examples of how Hazard Source Risk Assessment Series (OHSAS) and involves implementing Group-wide to ensure occupational safety. From FYE 2020, employees policies and core rules and conducting internal audits. in charge of safety at each business base have been In FYE 2020, LIXIL Water Technology (LWT) conducted a GROHE has adopted OHSAS 18001, and four of our invited to join function managers at these meetings for risk assessment of hazard sources and highlighted ways to business locations in North America are aiming to shift from enhancing communication and the speedy development of prevent accidents from an employee’s perspective. OHSAS 18001 to ISO 45001 certification. occupational safety ideas. We submit monthly reports to senior management Safety promotion function managers at each technology detailing our initiatives and their performance in order to business conduct legal compliance audits at all business help promote occupational safety-related activities across the bases, obtain a good understanding of effective safety Group. We operate specific health and safety management activities at each location, and share that information systems at each of our business bases and hold Health through the intranet or at joint meetings attended by and Safety Committees on a single technology business or representatives of each business base. location basis. We also share and discuss issues related to Training session Anzen Dojo A forklift safety competition LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2020 45 Commitment Management & Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society External Evaluation & Action Plan Our People > Occupational Health & Safety 04 OUR PEOPLE The Occurrence of Work-Related Accidents Driving Health Management Severity Rate and Lost Time Injuries Frequency Rate ★ The LIXIL Group promotes sound health management To implement these initiatives, we have established an （LTIFR） (Severity Rate) because we believe it is important to ensure every employee employee health support framework through which company 0.60 0.12 0.52 0.54 is physically and mentally healthy in order for us to build an nurses facilitate collaboration between occupational physicians 0.50 0.10 0.46 0.44 enthusiastic, vigorous workplace. and relevant departments. Our People 0.40 0.08 We set up the LIXIL WELLNESS project in 2015 in 0.33 0.30 0.31 0.06 cooperation with the LIXIL Health Insurance Society to use 0.26 0.25 Diversity & Equal Opportunity joint corporate and health union resources, and maintain and 0.20 0.04 enhance employee health. The project focuses are to: Rewarding Workplaces 0.021 0.014 0.10 0.019 0.02 0.013 Talent Development 0.007 0.012 • Improve awareness of health issues and the importance of 0 0.012 0.004 0 Occupational Health & Safety FYE 2017 FYE 2018 FYE 2019 FYE 2020 self-management among all employees; LTIFR*1 (Directly and indirectly employed staff [left]) • Provide more employees with opportunities to help prevent LTIFR (Contractors [left]) Severity Rate*2 (Directly and indirectly employed staff [right]) illness and promote good health; and Severity Rate (Contractors [right]) • Establish health-conscious, comfortable working environments. OIFR*3 ★ FYE 2017 FYE 2018 FYE 2019 FYE 2020 *1 Lost Time Injuries Frequency Rate: Number of lost-day occupational injury cases / Directly and indirectly Total working hours × 1,000,000 employed 0 0 0 staffTotal days lost due to occupational accidents / Total working hours × 0 *2 Severity Rate: 1,000 (Total days lost due to occupational accidents = actual days absent from work) Contractors 0 0 0 Scope: FYE2016 covers directly employed staff at production and non-production bases Number of Work-Related Fatalities ★ in Japan. FYE2017 and FYE2018 cover directly and indirectly employed staff and contractors at production and non-production bases in Japan and a majority of Workplace FYE 2017 FYE 2018 FYE 2019 FYE 2020 ● Supervisors overseas production bases. ● Employees 「LIXIL WELLNESS（ウェルネス）」とは、LIXIL（会社）と LIXIL 健 Directly and indirectly 0 0 1 0 康保険組合がみなさんの健康の為に連携を強化し、相互に資源や強 employed staff 保健師 みを活用する LIXIL 流の“コラボヘルス”を指します。 Contractors 0 0 0 「LIXIL WELLNESS」を推進することにより、みなさん一人ひとりが Scope: Covers directly and indirectly hired employees and contractors at これまで以上にいきいきと健やかに毎日を過ごせることを目指します。 production and non-production bases in Japan and production bases outside Japan (excluding some bases). このパンフレットでは、「LIXIL WELLNESS」について、皆さんに * Excludes Permasteelisa Group and LIXIL VIVA Corporation “知ってもらいたいこと”、“協力して欲しいこと”をお伝えします。 *1 Lost Time Injuries Frequency Rate (LTIFR): Number of occupational injury ● Occupational ● Company ● Health cases involving days away from work / Total working hours × 1,000,000 ● Relevent Insurance physicians nurses *2 Severity rate: Total work days lost due to occupational accidents / Total working departments Society hours × 1,000 (Total work days lost means actual days away from work) Brochure of LIXIL WELLNESS *3 Occupational Illness Frequency Rate (OIFR): Number of occupational illness cases involving days away from work / Total working hours × 1,000,000 LIXIL WELLNESS health support framework LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2020 46 Commitment Management & Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society External Evaluation & Action Plan Our People > Occupational Health & Safety 04 OUR PEOPLE Health Maintenance Initiatives to occupational physicians for private consultation. Any workplace with 10 or more respondents that has been We also work together with the LIXIL Health Insurance Society to arrange health seminars given by external Strict Smoking Ban identified as being high-stress is required to create an action lecturers on topics selected to suit the needs of individual plan sheet to resolve the underlying causes. workplaces or job types. In FYE 2020, we held seminars on LIXIL Corporation and its subsidiaries decided to ban We are also strengthening our mental health support system various themes from protecting mental health to building smoking on the premises of all business bases and facilities by allocating occupational psychiatrists in multiple Japanese physical health, including, more specifically, how to prevent Our People in Japan from April 2020, and to forbid all employees from bases to facilitate a more targeted specialist approach. back pain or falling down, and women’s health. smoking during working hours. This policy is designed to Diversity & Equal Opportunity help maintain and promote the health of our employees and Health Education Programs Health Promotion Events all the other people who use our facilities. Rewarding Workplaces We create programs tailored to specific employees such Given the importance of daily efforts to maintain health, Talent Development Annual Medical Checkups we work with the LIXIL Health Insurance Society to actively as new hires and supervisors, through which company Occupational Health & Safety nurses provide information on topics such as mental health, encourage exercise. Since 2016, we have held our biannual All employees undergo annual medical checkups, and disease prevention, and improvement of health-related lifestyle LIXIL Walking Rally as a way to encourage employees to occupational physicians determine whether individual factors. In FYE 2020, we held a total of 42 sessions with 1,168 develop their own exercise routines, drawing some 2,000 employees require arrangements specific to their jobs. In participants. In particular, we ensure all newly appointed participants each time. addition, employees who exhibit health risks are encouraged managers receive training on mental health management, We also run the LIXIL Health Insurance Society’s twice-yearly to visit a medical institution to ensure early detection and as part of efforts to create work environments that facilitate health promotion campaign, in which we seek to promote treatment of any diagnosed illness. We are especially the early detection and treatment of mental health issues. physical health by setting up courses that can help employees rigorous in encouraging employees with high health risks improve their diet, exercise routines, and daily life habits. to visit medical specialists, so we can help them reduce the risk of illness and support them to continue working Supporting Return to Work in a healthy and safe manner. The LIXIL Health Insurance Society covers basic medical examination fees for both We support employees’ return to work following sickness employees and their dependents. absence based on our Return to Work Program. From care during absence to follow-up support after return, relevant departments, supervisors, occupational physicians, and Mental Health Measures company nurses align with each other to provide support suited for individual mental and physical conditions. We conduct annual stress checks as part of our mental health support, with a response rate of 94.7% in FYE 2020. Employees suffering from high stress levels are referred Health seminar given by an external lecturer LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2020 47 Commitment Management & Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society External Evaluation & Action Plan Our People > Occupational Health & Safety 04 OUR PEOPLE Setting Up Helplines KENKO Kigyo Kai Participation Overseas Cases LIXIL Corporation has established a helpline offering mental Maintaining and enhancing health is a challenge for all To introduce a few of our international well-being promotion and physical health advice through which employees can workers, extending beyond the activities of any individual activities, LWT & LHT Asia (LIXIL Thailand) created exercise receive specific individual advice and specialist support from company. The LIXIL Group is part of KENKO Kigyo Kai, clubs designed to relieve stress and promote health company nurses via email or telephone. an organization that aims for active and effective health awareness that all employees can attend after work. The Our People The LIXIL Health Insurance Society has set up its own promotion activities by sharing and utilizing health multiple clubs, ranging from badminton to futsal, attract over mental and physical health support line where employees management expertise. We hope this association will 1,200 participants in total. LWT & LHT Asia (LWT China) also Diversity & Equal Opportunity can seek advice via telephone, web, or face-to-face interview develop into a group of leading companies in the health holds a biweekly health promotion club to help relieve workfrom external doctors and public health nurses not only promotion sphere, and, by extension, set a strong example related pressure. Rewarding Workplaces about health and medical treatment, but also about childfor promoting health management in our society at large. Talent Development raising and nursing care. Occupational Health & Safety METI Health and Productivity Certification The LIXIL Group is recognized under the 2020 Certified Health & Productivity Management Outstanding Organizations Recognition Program run by Japan’s Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry (METI). This certification recognizes our health maintenance and improvement measures, including mental health education, exercise LWT & LHT Asia (LIXIL Thailand) LWT & LHT Asia (LIXIL China) exercise club in action health club puts on a show promotion, and initiatives to help reduce the risk of lifestyle diseases and other illnesses. LIXIL VIVA Corporation is also FYE 2020 human resource performance data indicated with ★ have been assured by a third party. certified under the same program. DATA Scope and details (Supplementary Publication: Databook / 581KB) LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2020 48 Commitment Management & Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society External Evaluation & Action Plan 05 ENVIRONMENT ENVIRONMENT We proactively pursue environmentally conscious initiatives across all of our processes based on our earnest desire to help people coexist in harmony with our planet. Environment Environmental Management System Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation Sustainable Water Use Sustainable Use of Resources Management of Chemical Substances LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2020 49 Commitment Management & Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society External Evaluation & Action Plan Environment > Highlight 05 Highlight Target Help realize a sustainable society through innovative products and services and environmental considerations across all operational processes. ENVIRONMENT CO2 emissions reduction attributable to CO2 emissions Emission intensity Waste recycling ratio per unit of output Group products and services from places of business (Scope 1 and 2) Target -8% Target 95% Environment Target 1.36 (v. FYE 2016) times (Thousand t-CO2) 2,000 -7.5 (v. FYE 2016) -8.0 (%) 0 (％) 100 94 96 96 (In Japan and Europe) 95 1,600 -10 -14.3 75 90 Environmental Management System (Times) 61 62 66 1.5 1.29 1.36 -20 1.21 1,200 1,134 1,132 1,063 1,043 Climate Change Mitigation 1.00 50 1.0 565 -30 40 and Adaptation 800 587 525 34 540 27 25 19 Sustainable Water Use 0.5 400 -40 547 567 538 503 Sustainable Use of Resources 0 0 -50 0 FYE 2016 FYE 2019 FYE 2020 FYE 2021 FYE 2016 FYE 2019 FYE 2020 FYE 2021 FYE 2018 FYE 2019 FYE 2020 FYE 2021 Management of Chemical Substances (Target) (Target) (Target) ■ Scope 1 ■ Scope 2 Emission intensity per unit of output Japan and Europe Asia (excluding Japan) North America Scope 3 emissions Water usage Waste and other emissions (Million t-CO2) (Million m3) (Thousand t) 150 20 500 18.1 16.9 16.7 16.1 406 407 411 120 117 114 117 15 375 5 5 5 13.9 13.2 103 139 118 90 10 250 162 185 60 142 112 109 112 5 125 30 125 127 123 0 0 0 FYE 2018 FYE 2019 FYE 2020 FYE 2018 FYE 2019 FYE 2020 FYE 2018 FYE 2019 FYE 2020 ■ Intake ■ Discharge ■ Sold as valuables ■ Recycled outside the Group ■ Category 11 (Use of sold products) ■ Other Scope of coverage: Data covers a majority of the entire Group ■ Landfilled or incinerated Scope of coverage: Data covers a majority of the entire Group * Excludes tenanted properties, etc. that we can’t access to assess the water intake Scope of coverage: Data covers a majority of the entire Group LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2020 50 Commitment Management & Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society External Evaluation & Action Plan Environment > Environmental Management System 05 ENVIRONMENT ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM We are operating a Group-wide management system to reduce environmental risks and realize Environmental Vision 2050. Our Approach Our System In 2019, the LIXIL Group updated its Environmental Vision In order to promote Group-wide environmental activities, we The Group Environmental Committee holds a regular meeting to contribute to improving people’s comfort and lifestyles established the Group Environmental Committee chaired once a year, which is attended by the Group CTO supervising Environment and a better future for our global environment. We will do by the Group’s chief technology officer (CTO). The head environmental activities, and employees responsible for this by reducing environmental impacts in all business office environmental management department serves as environmental management from each business organization. Environmental Management System processes from raw materials procurement through the endthe committee’s secretariat, overseeing all our business At the meeting, participants confirm the Group’s environmental of-life of products. Based on the new 2050 vision, we aim organizations, head office departments, and consolidated policy, strategy, and emergency response process, which Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation to reduce carbon emissions from our business processes, subsidiaries. The Group Environment Committee enlists the they then share and implement in each of their individual products, and services to net-zero, and to be a leader in the cooperation of the LIXIL Group executive officers and jurisdictions as a means of strengthening corporate governance Sustainable Water Use field of preserving water and limited resources for future the Board of Directors, the Risk Management Committee, and improving performance. Sustainable Use of Resources generations. and the Corporate Responsibility (CR) Committee for its At the end of each business year, committee members meet Management of Chemical Substances Realizing the Environmental Vision will require activities. These activities focus primarily on establishing a for a management review session where they look back on building an effective Group-wide framework, which Group-wide environmental management system, including the past year’s activities, formulate plans for the coming includes an environmental philosophy, code of conduct, promoting environmental strategies, organizing effective business year, and revise the Group’s overall vision and and a management system. To lay the foundation for management structures and reporting lines, and sharing and medium-term targets. environmental target setting, monitoring, and information expanding organizational and regional measures. disclosure, we established Performance Data Reporting Guidelines in 2016 and have been implementing them based on the LIXIL Group Environmental Sustainability Principles. By developing this framework and foundation, we are uniting the entire Group in reducing environmental risks and realizing the Environmental Vision. Group Environmental Committee Internal TCFD study session during an environmental Committee meeting LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2020 51 Commitment Management & Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society External Evaluation & Action Plan Environment > Environmental Management System 05 ENVIRONMENT LIXIL Group’s Environmental Sustainability Principles External and Internal Audits Environmental Education and Internal Evaluation Philosophy The LIXIL Group operates an internal audit system covering We strive to inform and educate employees at different the entire Group. Our factories conduct internal audits in levels of the Group about environmental initiatives. We Environment Striving to help people live in harmony with the earth, strict accordance with ISO 14001 standards and check the conduct environmental training for new recruits, provide the LIXIL Group is committed to continuing our effectiveness and compliance of environmental management Environmental Management System (EMS) training for Environmental Management System environmentally sound efforts in every aspect of our systems. With regard to non-manufacturing departments EMS promotion managers and operators at each site, and business activities. and Group operating companies, we perform internal audits distribute monthly reports on environmental trends to top Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation based on the standards set in our own environmental management, including the Group’s directors, executive Code of Conduct management system and are gradually expanding officers, auditors, and the CEOs of technology businesses. Sustainable Water Use the scope to include Group subsidiaries. We work to ensure In addition, we evaluate and award environmental activities Sustainable Use of Resources • Continually improve environmental management systems the effective operation of our management system by led by employees at each site. For top management, we Management of Chemical Substances and performance following up on all audit points and confirming introduced a stock-linked compensation program that evaluates • Adhere to rigorous compliance the implementation of improvements. From FYE 2018, and further incentivizes their contribution to the Group’s • Develop and provide environmentally sound products and the head office environmental management department mediumto long-term improvement in corporate value, services started auditing employees responsible for environmental including environmental performance. These mechanisms • Reduce environmental impact in every process of management in all business organizations. help promote environmental activities across the Group. the business operation We are promoting ISO 14001 certification of all production • Proactively communicate with all stakeholders sites to strengthen environmental governance across the Group. Already, 71 sites have obtained certification, and PDF LIXIL Group Environmental Sustainability Principles (50KB) 13 sites in North America are on track, which will bring the ratio of certified sites to 91.3% PDF List of ISO-certified sites (55KB) Environmental education for new hires LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2020 52 Commitment Management & Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society External Evaluation & Action Plan Environment > Environmental Management System 05 ENVIRONMENT Environmentally Conscious Design Environmental Disclosure LIXIL Corporation conducts an environmental assessment Product-Related Environmental Assessment Steps We are establishing systems to assist environmental at each stage of the product development process to ensure management decision-making by appropriately evaluating compliance with environmental laws, and to help reduce Set environmental targets for new risks and opportunities and clearly understanding Product planning products to be developed the environmental impact of products in all three lifecycle the financial impacts of climate change on our future Environment stages: produce, use, and dispose. business operations. Our head office environmental Compare each evaluation criteria against Designing and testing management department provides information to top standards and existing products Environmental Management System management derived from various analyses on regulatory trends; carbon tax, emissions trading, and energy cost Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation Final confirmation Final check of strong selling points forecasts; and the estimated financial impacts of capital investments and environmental measures. To promote Sustainable Water Use Showcase selling points in catalogs and environmental investment, we require calculation of carbon Sustainable Use of Resources Eco product marketing other marketing materials using eco reduction benefit in investment decision-making processes. labels and graphs Management of Chemical Substances In March 2019, the LIXIL Group announced support for Evaluation Criteria for Product-Related Environmental Assesment the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD), and has been disclosing information based on the Stage Items to be considered Eco product features TCFD recommended items. In FYE 2020, we used the TCFD framework to conduct a scenario analysis of our window Reducing major component materials and parts Resource-saving sash and door businesses and net zero energy house Additional reductions from using recycled materials Recycled material use Produce (ZEH) business (see P** for results). Going forward, we will Efficient assembly and construction Construction-saving continue to help solve social issues through our business Using lawful, sustainable wooden materials Lawfully logged wood activities, and work to further enhance our information disclosure that will enable us to build more trust with our Reducing energy and water usage in everyday living Energyand water-saving stakeholders. Improving performance using natural energy and zero energy use Energy-creating / zero energy Use We also respond to questionnaires from international nonEase of maintenance and cleaning Dirt-proofing, easy cleaning profit the CDP, earning us an A, the highest grade, in CDP Responding to sick-house countermeasures F ☆☆☆☆ , etc.* Water Security 2019, and Ain CDP Climate Change 2019. Material recyclability of main component materials and parts Recyclable design Dispose DATA T  CFD Index (Supplementary Publication: Databook / 581KB) Reusability of main component materials and parts Reusable WEB Details about our CDP results * F☆☆☆☆ (four-star) is the highest rating in the formaldehyde emissions level rating scheme LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2020 53 Commitment Management & Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society External Evaluation & Action Plan Environment > Environmental Management System 05 ENVIRONMENT Response to the TCFD In light of the LIXIL Group’s aspirations set forth in of our business to safer homes and lifestyles even more Steps of Analysis Environmental Vision 2050, we analyzed the projected important. impacts of climate change on our business in the year 2030. Step 1 Assess risks and opportunities In FYE 2020, we applied this analysis to our sash and door Step 3 Environment businesses and our ZEH business. We will use these scenario analysis results to draft response Environmental Management System Step 1 measures and formulate action plans. We also plan to apply Step 2 Evaluate financial impacts this scenario analysis process to other businesses in the Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation We organized risks and opportunities by identifying LIXIL Group. the business impacts of climate change and climate Sustainable Water Use Step 3 Identify response measures measures and assessing the size of those impacts qualitatively. Sustainable Use of Resources Management of Chemical Substances Step 2 Given the significant financial impacts of a carbon tax and associated rise in fuel and material prices from a move toward Risks and Opportunities Identified as High Impact in Step 1 decarbonization, we find it crucial to minimize such impacts by investing in environmental technologies and driving Expected business impacts Category manufacturing innovation. Because natural disaster impacts Risks Opportunities are expected to intensify in a scenario of worsening climate · Carbon tax sharply increases fuel taxes and electricity rates · Increasing production efficiency reduces costs change, we reaffirmed the need to conduct risk management · Stronger regulations raise energy efficiency standards · Demand for ZEHs, high-insulation, and renewable energy Regulatory strengthening · Use of alternative and recycled materials is made products increases at each business site and build a resilient supply chain. mandatory · Increased demand for sustainable raw materials promotes Our results also suggested a potential rise in demand sustainability for ZEH-related products. An increase in energy retrofits of · Demand declines because feed-in tariff and other · Service markets related to ZEHs and renewable energy are Renewable energy policy existing housing, in addition to new construction, is needed subsidies level out created to realize a 2ºC scenario. Thus, it is important that we Technology investment · Cost of investing in manufacturing processes rises · Innovation in manufacturing processes is encouraged seize this business opportunity by increasing promotional Market changes · Raw material prices rise · Alternative materials are developed communications to customers and responding to public · Cost of natural disasters grows · Business opportunities for disaster risk-reducing products policy changes. Growing disaster risks may increase demand Extreme weather · Supply chains are disrupted expand · Implementation of BCP measures increases resilience for products that reduce these risks, making the contribution LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2020 54 Commitment Management & Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society External Evaluation & Action Plan Environment > Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation 05 ENVIRONMENT CLIMATE CHANGE MITIGATION AND ADAPTATION We have set out to achieve net-zero greenhouse gas emissions from business processes, products, and services. Products & Services: Conserving Energy We provide products and services with improved home insulation that help reduce heating and air conditioning demand as well and Reducing Greenhouse Gas Emissions as ones that use renewable energy. We also provide IoT-enabled solutions for eco-conscious lifestyles and solutions that address natural disaster and health risks of climate change. Environment LW (TOSTEM) RE-PLUS (TOSTEM) Ecoful Shower (INAX) Environmental Management System LW is an innovative window product consisting of a large While the level of thermal insulation of windows in newly Heating water constitutes 24% of household CO2 emissions. glass door that slides open sideways and a built-in frame built houses meets Japan’s 2020 energy-saving standards Reducing the amount of hot water used, therefore, is Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation that is almost invisible from inside the house. This product thanks to net zero energy house (ZEH) promotion activities an effective way to reduce emissions. The impeller built into offers high thermal insulation (heat transmission coefficient driven by the Japanese government, this is not necessarily the the Ecoful Shower’s showerhead is designed to close off half of Sustainable Water Use 1.00W/(m2K))* through its aluminum-resin hybrid frame, case for windows in existing houses. RE-PLUS is a window the showerhead’s holes while Sustainable Use of Resources which helps reduce CO2 emissions and energy consumption product that enables existing windows to be replaced with an spinning at a high speed. Management of Chemical Substances from heating and air conditioning. The built-in frame aluminum-resin hybrid model in as little as 60 minutes* using As a result, the increased provides a clear, wide view, and is designed to perfectly fit existing window frames. Since introducing this product, we internal pressure creates the lines of the window frame. LW won the Nikkei Sangyo have expanded the range of windows that can be upgraded a powerful shower spray Shimbun Award by complementing the sliding-door window frame launched despite using considerably of Excellence at in 2017 with a new frame for decorative windows in 2018. less water. In fact, this the 2018 Nikkei We are seeking to improve the level of thermal insulation of showerhead can reduce Superior Products windows in current housing by extending the scope of windows the amount of water used by and Services Awards, that can be upgraded, from sliding doors most commonly 48% compared to traditional along with the found in living rooms and bedrooms to a wider range of windows. shower heads (10 liters/ 2019 Construction minute), thereby saving energy. Materials and * Regular-sized pane replacement takes Facilities Grand Prize. WEB About the product (Japanese only) at least 60 minutes, and terrace LW installed room Built-in frame design window-sized pane replacement takes * Calculated internally using JIS A 2102-1 and JIS A 2102-2 standards for at least 90 minutes. measuring the two-way thermal transmittance of Low-E green (5-10-1.311-5) model of sliding 16522 triple-pane glass (with krypton gas). Replacement image Cross-section image WEB About the product (Japanese only) WEB About the product (Japanese only) LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2020 55 Commitment Management & Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society External Evaluation & Action Plan Environment > Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation 05 ENVIRONMENT Automatic Heating Faucet (INAX) IoT-Enabled Smart Post Delivery Box (LIXIL) Promoting the Construction of ZEHs (LTSP) INAX’s Automatic Heating Faucet for public restrooms will The growth of online shopping in recent years has increased To help reduce household energy consumption, instantly heat water to 26ºC when the temperature of the the number of home deliveries. However, due to the growing the Japanese government has set a target requiring over 50% water dips below the 21 to 26ºC range, which is considered number of redeliveries as well, this is cited as reducing of new houses built by 2020 to qualify as ZEHs.* ZEHs are comfortable for washing hands. This faucet also incorporates labor productivity and increasing CO2 emissions. LIXIL not expanding at the desired pace, though. To help address Environment our Ecoful feature, releasing the minimum amount of water launched its IoT-enabled Smart Post Delivery Box in 2018, this situation, LIXIL Corporation and TEPCO Energy Partner, required for users to feel that they have cleaned their which enables two-way communication between the box Inc. established a joint venture company, LIXIL TEPCO Environmental Management System hands properly. This new method of ensuring the optimum and a smartphone, sending notification of deliveries and Smart Partners Incorporated (LTSP), in September 2017. temperature and volume of water for washing hands has enabling users to accept multiple separate deliveries. In a The company leases solar-power generation systems to Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation successfully reduced energy use by 92% compared to demonstration experiment conducted in 2019 in the Koto customers who purchase LIXIL’s ZEH materials, and receives traditional electric water heaters. As a result of its simple and Edogawa districts of Tokyo, we confirmed the benefits of income from any surplus energy sold. In return, the actual Sustainable Water Use design and innovative, eco-friendly approach, the faucet this product in cutting emissions through fewer redeliveries, cost customers pay each month for their solar power generation Sustainable Use of Resources won the top award for excellence at the Environment and and plan to expand the product lineup going forward. systems is zero yen. LTSP’s new Tatetoku Value service, Management of Chemical Substances Equipment Design Awards hosted by the Association of which was launched in 2018 to help reduce customers’ Building Engineering and Equipment. monthly electricity bills, won the Agency for Natural Resources and Energy Director-General’s Award at the FYE 2019 Energy Conservation Awards. We intend to use these services to promote the spread of ZEHs, help customers live comfortably and healthily, and help mitigate global warming. * Stands for net zero energy houses. ZEHs realize Solar power generation system both a comfortable indoor environment and a substantial reduction in energy consumption Effective with high insulation and cost: 0yen high-efficiency equipment. A ZEH also produces Customer energy with a solar or Income from surplus energy sales other power generation system, thereby reducing the annual net amount of energy consumption to almost zero or less. WEB About the product (Japanese only) WEB About the product (Japanese only) WEB About the product (Japanese only) LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2020 56 Commitment Management & Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society External Evaluation & Action Plan Environment > Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation 05 ENVIRONMENT Promoting Energy Creation and Saving We are promoting strict energy-saving activities in factories and offices, the development of energy efficiency technologies, and use of renewable energy. Increasing Energy Efficiency Installing High-Efficiency Cogeneration Systems Using Renewable Energy We aim to increase energy efficiency in manufacturing We are installing equipment to improve energy efficiency in We are also focused on using renewable energy to reduce Environment production processes. CO2 emissions. through site-specific initiatives, such as by identifying issues in production processes and conducting equipment reviews. Our GROHE production plant in Lahr, Southwest Germany, LIXIL Corporation is generating and promoting the use of Environmental Management System The Otani Plant in Aichi, Japan, for example, installed flow has replaced two inefficient boilers with a cogeneration renewable energy by operating megawatt-scale solar power meters to quantify steam use, making it possible to identify the system,* contributing to an annual CO2 emissions reduction plants in previously unutilized spaces at eight manufacturing Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation location of leaks. In FYE 2020, it reduced steam use by 44%, of 2,550 metric tons. Our GROHE plant in Klaeng, sites in Japan. Together, these eight sites generate some equivalent to 1,089 metric tons of CO2. The Shimotsuma Plant Thailand, built a new eco-conscious building in 2017 that 33,800 MWh of electricity annually, enough to power Sustainable Water Use in Ibaraki, Japan installed an IoT-enabled monitoring system now operates high-efficiency production equipment. A approximately 6,800 Japanese households. Sustainable Use of Resources photovoltaic system on the roof helps cut an estimated 700 In FYE 2020, all GROHE production sites achieved a shift on its combustion furnaces, which were difficult to improve Management of Chemical Substances due to a safety concern. This system enabled more suitable metric tons of CO2 per year. to renewable energy, reducing CO2 emissions by 48,000 operation of the furnaces and a reduction in fuel use. All GROHE plants and distribution centers around the metric tons annually. We also converted to 100% renewable The Hokkaido Distribution Center in Japan began combining world were successfully certified according to ISO 50001 energy at the LIXIL headquarters, Kyoto showroom, and freight with other companies in the industry to address poor Energy Management Systems by the end of 2016. INAX MUSEUMS, achieving an annual carbon reduction of loading efficiencies and a driver shortage — issues faced 2,000 metric tons. We plan to continue shifting to renewable across Japan. This helped reduce combined driving distance * A power generation system that uses a heat recovery unit to capture energy across the entire LIXIL Group. waste heat and turn it into thermal energy. with partner companies by 55,200 kilometers annually, a 22.7% reduction in CO2 emissions intensity per tonne-km. We are also replacing existing lighting at our Japanese factories and distribution centers with LED lighting. At least 95% of lighting has already been converted to LED. LIXIL Kanto Distribution Center in Japan GROHE Lahr Plant in Germany LIXIL Chita Plant in Japan LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2020 57 Commitment Management & Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society External Evaluation & Action Plan Environment > Sustainable Water Use 05 ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABLE WATER USE The LIXIL Group adds environmental value to water resources through technologies that save, recycle, and purify water. Enhancing the Water-Saving Features in We provide products and services that reduce water consumption, such as water-saving toilets, water faucets, and smart water Products and Services controllers. Going forward, we plan to increase our offering of water quality solutions that draw on purification technologies. Environment SATIS (INAX) Studio S Low-Profile Toilet (American Standard) GROHE SENSE GUARD (GROHE) Environmental Management System The SATIS toilet, with its strong cleaning performance and American Standard offers a wide range of toilets that meet According to a survey of European households conducted by Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation water-saving functionality, can save up to 73% of water strict criteria for water savings, established by the US GROHE in 2017, 54% of households have experienced some used compared to conventional toilets that use 13 liters of Environmental Protection Agency’s WaterSense program, form of water damage such as those caused by water leakage. Sustainable Water Use water for each long flush. Its AQUA CERAMIC sanitaryware and save nearly 20% more water than the standard criteria In response, GROHE developed the remote-controllable Sustainable Use of Resources material repels waste during each flush, making day-to-day set by the governmental organization. We seek to enhance GROHE SENSE GUARD. Used together with a smartphone Management of Chemical Substances cleaning easier and keeping it sparkling like new for 100 years.* the variety of products to match consumers’ tastes, app, it notifies users in the event of a burst pipe and including the Cadet PRO, a quality toilet at an affordable automatically shuts off the water supply to minimize damage. * Or up to 70,000 back-and-forth scrubs with a toilet brush. Assuming two price, the Studio S Low-Profile Toilet, an ultra-high scrubs on the same spot 365 days a year. efficiency toilet, and Lyndon, a popular contemporarystyle toilet. The bowl height of these toilets also conforms to the accessibility height guidelines as outlined by the Americans with Disability Act of 1990. SATIS AQUA CERAMIC Studio S Low-Profile Toilet WEB About the product (Japanese only) WEB About the product WEB About the product LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2020 58 Commitment Management & Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society External Evaluation & Action Plan Environment > Sustainable Water Use 05 ENVIRONMENT Navish Hands-Free Faucet Equipped with the Eco Sensor (INAX) Saybrook Filtered Kitchen Faucet (American Standard) GROHE Blue (GROHE) Navish Hands-Free faucet uses the automatic Eco Sensor Saybrook Filtered Kitchen Faucet, which introduces INAX’s Using a specialized filter cartridge, the GROHE Blue to detect the presence of hands and other objects, enabling filtering technology from Japan, can remove impurities household water system dispenses chilled or carbonated water to be dispensed and stopped without touching the such as lead, chlorine, and small particles contained in tap water from the kitchen faucet. It can also chill roomEnvironment faucet. The faucet equipped with the sensor function also water to provide safe drinking water, with an improved taste. temperature water to a desired temperature. Given that as separates hot and cold water, preventing unintended use of Smaller than most and innovatively designed, the filter can much as seven liters are required to produce a single liter Environmental Management System hot water and energy. Users can save approximately 52% be installed for easy access above deck at countertop level, of bottled drinking water, GROHE Blue also contributes to energy and 31% water compared to conventional faucets. or below deck on the inside cabinet wall, where its compact the conservation of water resources. The system also helps Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation size doesn’t infringe on storage space. Easy access to clean cut CO2 emissions by 61% compared to bottled water and water helps prevent plastic water bottle usage and home reduce plastic waste. Sustainable Water Use water delivery, helping to reduce the environmental footprint. Sustainable Use of Resources Management of Chemical Substances WEB About the product (Japanese only) WEB About the product WEB About the product LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2020 59 Commitment Management & Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society External Evaluation & Action Plan Environment > Sustainable Water Use 05 ENVIRONMENT Improving Water Efficiency and Protecting Water Quality in Business Activities At sites that use water for manufacturing, we work to identify water-related business risks in each region and take appropriate steps to improve water efficiency, recycle water, and manage wastewater. Identifying Water Risks at Production Sites Introducing Wastewater Recycling Systems Environment In order to better understand local conditions and introduce in FYE 2017. Thanks to the increased accuracy of evaluation The LIXIL Group is promoting efficient water resource use appropriate measures to address the problem of increasingly tool databases, we have been able to conduct more through water recycling. In FYE 2019, we used 1,066,486 Environmental Management System scarce global water resources, the LIXIL Group started accurate risk-level assessment in each region and improve m3 of recycled water. conducting surveys in FYE 2017 to identify water risks at environmental performance at each site. This brought the At our sanitaryware factory in Suzhou, China, for Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation 68 production sites that use water in their manufacturing number of high-risk sites to zero in FYE 2020. example, we installed a water recycling system that treats processes. We used international evaluation tools such as the Because these evaluations focused on volume-related manufacturing wastewater for reuse. Wastewater from Sustainable Water Use WWF Water Risk Filter and WRI Aqueduct to conduct data water risks, going forward, we will look closely at risks machining and plating is processed through a reverse Sustainable Use of Resources analysis and quantify local characteristics and the state of related to water quality, regulations, and reputation to ensure osmosis (RO) membrane filtration system* and fed back into Management of Chemical Substances water use. Now we are taking steps to install water recycling sustainable operation of our production sites. the production process. Through proactive initiatives at other systems and use recycled water at sites identified as high risk factories in Asia and North America where water scarcity poses a serious risk, we will seek to further expand recycled 1% Percentage of Production Sites by Water Risk Level Water Risk Survey Results and Water Usage water use and reduce our water footprint. (FYE 2020) (FYE 2020) 18% * A type of filtration membrane that enables water to flow through while 0% 0% 2% blocking impurities such as ions and other molecules. 4% 0% 0% Total 4% 21% 15% 37% 15,476,000 38% Total Total m 3 68 sites 48% 15,496,000 m3 37% 40% 35% Water risk Low High Water risk Low High Water risk Low High * Targets those production sites that use water in their production processes (excluding the newly added sites in India and Dominica). INAX Suzhou factory in China LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2020 60 Commitment Management & Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society External Evaluation & Action Plan Environment > Sustainable Use of Resources 05 ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABLE USE OF RESOURCES We promote the sustainable use of raw materials across the entire lifecycle of our products, from procurement through production, end use, and product disposal. Saving and Recycling Resources We develop our products for long life and sustained value. We do this by using recycled raw materials, designing for durability and in Products and Services reuse, making functional parts of existing products replaceable and upgradable, and expanding our offering of products as a service. Environment Wooden Decks Made Upgradable Design Renting and Leasing Environmental Management System from 100% Recycled Materials Comfortable Bathroom Spaces Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation KIRARA STAGE Mokucho is an artificial timber deck with Some LIXIL kitchen faucets are designed so that just the spout Our mobile bathroom product, withCUBE, solves the the natural character of wood, made from 100% recycled portion can be replaced with one that has a built-in water bathroom challenges distribution centers and other work Sustainable Water Use materials. This range of decks uses medium-density purifier. Upgrading is simple and takes only a minute. This facilities face. This product as a service is available for rent Sustainable Use of Resources fiberboard (MDF) wood dust, which is generated from eliminates the need to replace the entire faucet and reduces or lease, offering new ways to expand or renovate bathroom Management of Chemical Substances LIXIL’s wood-cutting processes and usually reprocessed waste when the faucet reaches end-of-life. facilities and thus improve workplace quality. It can be as fuel, mixed with plastic collected and recycled by local shipped as a completed bathroom space as high-quality authorities. as conventional bathrooms, and installed in as little as one day.* And since it can be installed and removed without major construction, withCUBE can help reduce resource inputs and waste from the product lifecycle. Upgrading the spout Completed deck image Cross-section showing the material’s asymmetric grooves (patented technology) Spout with built-in water purifier * Installation of withCUBE only. Preparatory construction to install water and wastewater lines and electrical wiring may be required separately. WEB KIRARA STAGE Mokucho (Japanese only) WEB Kitchen faucets (Japanese only) LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2020 61 Commitment Management & Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society External Evaluation & Action Plan Environment > Sustainable Use of Resources 05 ENVIRONMENT Recycling Resources in Operational Activities We practice strict standards for the appropriate management and reduction of waste. In collaboration with stakeholders, we are making continued efforts to minimize new resource inputs and to further promote reuse and recycling. Proactively Using Recycled Materials Working with Stakeholders Examples of Plastic Reduction to Eliminate Industrial Landfill Waste in Packaging and Packing Materials Environment At GROHE water faucet factories, we carry out alloy smelting The Nabari Plant in Mie, Japan has succeeded in selling its As the marine plastic problem grows more serious, the LIXIL Environmental Management System in in-house furnaces, and use recycled brass collected in and previously discarded wood shavings as biomass fuel. This Group is working to reduce single-use plastic. outside the factories for this process. Around 70 to 85% of required convincing wood suppliers to join an organization We changed the plastic used in INAX Aqua Power Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation the brass we use is recycled. that certifies their timber as legally compliant and then packaging to paper, reducing the amount of plastic our LIXIL Corporation factories in Japan are making efforts getting its shavings approved by biomass power plants. The customers throw away compared to similar products we Sustainable Water Use to use more recycled aluminum. Refining aluminum to plant completed this system in April 2020, bringing its wood have sold in the past. Eliminating clear plastic makes it Sustainable Use of Resources produce new ingots uses large amounts of electricity and shavings waste to zero. difficult for customers to see the actual product in-store, so Management of Chemical Substances water. Reusing aluminum scraps, however, can drastically Our factories in Rayong and Rangsit, Thailand, are also we accentuated the printed image on the packaging to show reduce the energy needed to manufacture aluminum working to convert waste into resources. They successfully the product at its real-life size and colors. products, thereby cutting CO2 emissions as well. converted materials previously landfilled, such as sludge and Our distribution function has also launched a project to mold and ceramic scraps, into ingredients for making concrete. reduce, reuse, and recycle stretch film used for transporting This reduced landfill waste generated by the two factories products. By making steady progress in reducing single-use in FYE 2020 by some 47,000 metric tons (a year-over-year plastic in transport alongside manufacturing and retail, we reduction of 15.2%), raising aim to achieve reductions their recycling rates to 90.5%. across our supply chain. TOSTEM THAI, meanwhile, has earned a Level 4 rating in the Thailand’s Ministry of Industry’s Green Industry commendation system. The company aims to attain Level 5, the highest rating, by building an eco-conscious network with suppliers and Award ceremony for green industry promoted by Thailand's Ministry of Feeding raw materials into the aluminum smelter business partners. Industry Paper packaging of INAX Aqua Power LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2020 62 Commitment Management & Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society External Evaluation & Action Plan Environment > Management of Chemical Substances 05 ENVIRONMENT MANAGEMENT OF CHEMICAL SUBSTANCES The LIXIL Group strives for appropriate management of chemical substances and reduction of substances of concern across all of its business processes. Our Approach Managing Chemicals Reducing Substances of Concern in Operational Processes in Products Since the 2002 World Summit on Sustainable Development (WSSD) agreed to aim to ensure “that chemicals are used and LIXIL Corporation appropriately manages chemical In new product development, we are prioritizing the Environment produced in ways that lead to the minimization of significant substances in all its business processes in accordance with reduction of substances of concern in our products in adverse effects on human health and the environment” the local laws and guidelines stipulated by each market in accordance with strong societal demands. We are also Environmental Management System by 2020, we have witnessed a considerable strengthening which it operates, such as the EU RoHS directive or REACH working together with our business partners to find in chemical substance management worldwide. The LIXIL regulation. alternatives to any substances of concern included in our Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation Group has also introduced various initiatives across all of existing products. its business processes to appropriately manage chemical We seek to reduce substances of concern in Sustainable Water Use Design development products based on the concept of Design for substances as well as reduce substances of concern Environment, and lower the risks relating to them. Rank Guideline for the Control of Sustainable Use of Resources that can have negative impact on human health and Chemical Substances Management of Chemical Substances environment, and contribute to improving people’s comfort We obtain and manage information on and lifestyles and resolving environmental pollution issues. Procurement chemical substances from our business LIXIL Corporation is implementing appropriate control of partners, and use that information for handling chemical substances through its control guideline that raw materials and providing information both PDF Management of Chemical Substances (304KB) internally and externally. details any substances prohibited for use in its products and We seek to reduce and manage substances those that may be used under strict management, as well as Production of concern in manufacturing processes, and how to handle them. minimize the amount used in products or Our System emitted into the environment, or the impact on To further enhance our efforts, we have newly established the health of factory workers. Chemical Substances Management Rank Guidelines in LIXIL Corporation’s corporate functions of Environment, We provide information on substances of January 2020 after reviewing List of the EnvironmentInformation sharing concern to ensure comfortable product use, Procurement, and Quality partner with the Technology and respond swiftly to customer inquiries. Related Substances to be controlled by LIXIL Corporation, function under the direction of the chief technology officer which was established as a guideline in 2015. to ensure appropriate management of chemical substances in products. Based on the solid partnership, they work PDF L  IXIL Corporation's Chemical Substances Management Rank Guidelines (443KB) to establish a chemicals management framework for LIXIL products (e.g., management infrastructure, strong governance mechanisms), track regulatory trends related to chemical substances, and implement measures to ensure appropriate management. LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2020 63 Commitment Management & Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society External Evaluation & Action Plan 06 CUSTOMERS & CUSTOMERS & SUPPLY CHAIN SUPPLY CHAIN We are committed to delivering customer-focused products and services and promoting responsible supply chain management. Customers & Supply Chain Responsible Supply Chain Management Product Safety & Quality Customer Satisfaction LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2020 64 Commitment Management & Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society External Evaluation & Action Plan Customers & Supply Chain > Highlight 06 Highlight Quality and Satisfaction Supply Chain CUSTOMERS & Target Strengthen relationships with customers Target Through responsible management of the overall supply chain, deliver a stable portfolio of products through our products and services. and fulfill stakeholder accountability. SUPPLY CHAIN Responsible Procurement Survey Customers & Supply Chain Coverage ratio 100 (%) 97 Customer 90 90 90 Target (based on purchased amount) 70% satisfaction 75 90% Responsible Supply Chain Target 50 Management 25 (Japan) Product Safety & Quality 100 (%) 0 Customer Satisfaction 75 70.5 70.6 73.5 70.0 FYE 2018 FYE 2019 FYE 2020 FYE 2021 (Target) 50 25 100 (%) 0 Conformity rate 95 94 89 90 FYE 2018 FYE 2019 FYE 2020 FYE 2021 (Target) 75 90% Target 50 25 (Japan) 0 FYE 2018 FYE 2019 FYE 2020 FYE 2021 (Target) 100 (%) 100 100 100 Improvement rate of low-rated suppliers 91 75 100 % Target 50 25 (Japan) 0 FYE 2018 FYE 2019 FYE 2020 FYE 2021 (Target) LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2020 65 Commitment Management & Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society External Evaluation & Action Plan Customers & Supply Chain > Responsible Supply Chain Management 06 CUSTOMERS & RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT The LIXIL Group seeks to ensure stable product supply and responsible procurement by identifying related risks and working closely with business partners. SUPPLY CHAIN Our Approach & System Promoting Responsible Procurement That Monitoring Existing Business Partners Upholds the Environment and Labor Safety The LIXIL Group’s procurement is based on the Ten We also conduct regular inspections of our existing partners. Principles of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) The LIXIL Group is committed to responsible procurement. The LIXIL Group employs the process outlined below to Customers & Supply Chain in the four areas of human rights, labour, environment, and designate important suppliers, which will be prioritized when anti-corruption. In accordance with the UNGC principles Selecting New Business Partners sharing procurement policies, conducting surveys, and Responsible Supply Chain as well as our Procurement Principles and Procurement checking progress towards improvement. Management Compliance Policy, we seek to build sound partnerships Our Supplier Assessment Standards used to select business Based on transaction value, approximately 90% of LIXIL Product Safety & Quality with global suppliers to carry out procurement activities. partners include criteria in the following areas: quality, cost, Corporation suppliers are located in Japan, followed by China, Our LIXIL Group Code of Conduct also specifies the delivery, technical capabilities, and ability to deliver stable Austria, and Thailand. For major suppliers in Japan, we hold Customer Satisfaction ethical behavior that is expected of all our staff, including supply; environmental consciousness, such as sustainable annual meetings to explain responsible procurement policies prohibition of bribery. use of resources and proper control of chemical substances; and request cooperation with surveys. Meanwhile, our Supplier Code of Conduct compiled in human rights; and labor safety. We require new business FYE 2018 requires that suppliers respect human rights, partners to understand and accept our Supplier Code of Flowchart for Important Suppliers Identification observe international labor standards, preserve the global Conduct. Once suppliers are selected, we also conduct environment, and ensure fair business conduct. At the same assessments of their products. Primary supplier time, we request that they demand equivalent standards LIXIL Corporation ascertains the compliance of new from their own suppliers. business partners by checking written responses to surveys Additionally, in January 2020, we created Green of labor management, occupational health and safety, antiProvides critical Procurement Guidelines outlining our policy and standards corruption, and other practices. component/product for procuring parts and materials that exert the least impact YES on the environment. We ask our business partners to Procurement Transaction Amount Breakdown by Country understand and support our environmental initiatives and Difficult to substitute Japan 2.2% 0.5% procurement activities based on these guidelines. China 2.2% 2.1% Austria 5.3% YES Thailand NO PDF Procurement Principles (92.9KB) Large-scale supplier Meets criteria set in Malaysia (Monetary terms) our Supplier Principles PDF Supplier Code of Conduct (156KB) Other countries 87.7% PDF Green Procurement Guidelines (287KB) Scope of application: YES Suppliers to LIXIL Corporation and its subsidiaries YES * Excluding GROHE Group, American Important supplier Standard Brands, and Permasteelisa Group LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2020 66 Commitment Management & Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society External Evaluation & Action Plan Customers & Supply Chain > Responsible Supply Chain Management 06 CUSTOMERS & Conducting and Following Up on Responsible Procurement Surveys SUPPLY CHAIN The LIXIL Group identifies supply chain risks by conducting suppliers and LIXIL’s procurement department, allowing Number of Responsible Procurement Survey responsible procurement surveys and checking subsequent efforts to be focused on improving any problems that are Questionnaire Items progress. Survey results form part of the basis for selecting uncovered. The widening of the survey scope in Japan CSR management 5 Customers & Supply Chain suppliers or determining whether to continue business with resulted in a lower conformity rate for FYE 2020, and we Fair business 12 an existing partner. are working to improve this rate by offering guidance on Responsible Supply Chain Details of the process are outlined below. potential improvements. Human rights 8 Management GROHE is also utilizing the same framework to help Labor 6 Product Safety & Quality 1 Select suppliers to be surveyed based on previous year’s specify and mitigate risks. Occupational health and safety 7 transaction value, etc. Customer Satisfaction Conservation of the global environment 7 2 Conduct responsible procurement surveys for chosen suppliers, covering CSR management, fair business, Contribution to the community 2 human rights, labor, occupational health and safety, Total 47 conservation of the global environment, and contribution to the community. PDF Survey form (447KB) 3 Compile survey results, classifying suppliers with subResponsible Procurement Survey Results standard conformity rates as high-risk. 4 Manage high-risk suppliers individually to encourage FYE 2018 FYE 2019 FYE 2020 FYE 2021 improvement. Activities KPI Targets Results Targets Results Targets Results Targets For suppliers classified as high-risk through this process, 90% 90% 97% we provide site visits and other forms of individual Coverage ratio Japan 90% 90% 90% 90% （581） （697） （1,212） (based on purchased guidance that help promote sustainable partnerships amount) 90% 90% 90% Overseas*1 90% 90% 90% 90% （123） （116） （234） and strengthen our supplier base, the primary goals of Distribute Procurement Principles, follow up our supply chain management strategy. Japan 90% 95% 90% 94% 85% 89% 90% on survey results and related activities Total conformity rate Overseas*1 80% 85% 80% 88% 80% 87% -*2 LIXIL Corporation reviewed its responsible procurement survey in FYE 2019. The new 47-question survey is easier Improvement rate Japan 100% 91% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% to understand because it dovetails more closely with our Scope of application: Suppliers to LIXIL Corporation and its subsidiaries. Figures in parentheses represent the number of applicable companies. Supplier Code of Conduct, revised in FYE 2018, and enables Japan: Procurement by operating sites in Japan, Overseas: Procurement by operating sites overseas *1 Excluding GROHE Group and American Standard Brands online responses. This has lightened the survey load for both *2 Not decided yet as the scope is now under reconsideration LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2020 67 Commitment Management & Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society External Evaluation & Action Plan Customers & Supply Chain > Responsible Supply Chain Management 06 CUSTOMERS & Strengthening Support for International Business Partners through Training SUPPLY CHAIN LIXIL Corporation provides training for procurement staff training sessions, procurement departments at individual at factories outside Japan as part of efforts to deepen factories have started formulating their own plans, and understanding of responsible procurement and improve strengthening their visits and the support offered to Customers & Supply Chain business partner support. business partners. We will continue offering training designed to promote Responsible Supply Chain Comprehending Social Demands responsible procurement by improving the support each Management and On-the-Job Training factory can provide to their business partners. Product Safety & Quality In FYE 2019, we conducted training for procurement Customer Satisfaction departments at our factories in China. Lectures led by members of the head office procurement department provided information on the importance of responsible procurement and related social trends, enhancing the understanding of the company’s challenges under our Procurement Principles. In addition to that, personnel from local and head office procurement departments jointly visited business partner factories to provide on-the-job training and assist with aspects requiring improvement. Local staff commented on how the experience reinforced the understanding of the importance of CSR, and inspired them to utilize insights gained through the training to help their business partners with improvement activities. Training Results: Each Factory Follows Commitment by Business Partners In FYE 2020, the factories that had received training in the previous year followed up their business partners’ commitments more widely. Using what they learned in the LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2020 68 Commitment Management & Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society External Evaluation & Action Plan Customers & Supply Chain > Product Safety & Quality 06 CUSTOMERS & PRODUCT SAFETY & QUALITY The LIXIL Group is committed to maintaining and strengthening ties with our customers by ensuring superior quality in manufacturing and services, and consistently improving our product quality management systems with the aim of eradicating serious product-related accidents. SUPPLY CHAIN Our Approach The LIXIL Group firmly believes that product quality is the key to earning the trust of Nurturing a Culture That Strives for Superior Quality Product Manufacturing our customers and society. To ensure that this belief is shared among all employees, Customers & Supply Chain The LIXIL Group works to build a culture that focuses on enhancing quality throughout we have published the LIXIL Group Quality Principles in 14 languages and are the year, not only during the traditional Quality Month. We measured the level of continuously pursuing excellence in product manufacturing and services around awareness of quality via a survey of all Group employees and embarked on a process to Responsible Supply Chain the world. Serious product-related problems make customers anxious and adversely generate further improvements. Management affect our reputation. That is why we pursue product quality management initiatives Product Safety & Quality such as confirming legislative compliance based on the LIXIL Product Safety Principles. Stimulating Daily Awareness and Sharing We will continue to enhance our product quality management systems, and work to Best Practices at Our Product Quality Forum Customer Satisfaction ensure our customers know how to use products safely. We have been using internal social media since FYE 2019 as one of our tools for raising awareness year-round. We explain our Group Quality PDF LIXIL Group Quality Principles (106KB) PDF LIXIL Product Safety Principles (40KB) Principles and post CEO messages, and we also proactively share experiences of actual cases that can be used as reference by individual departments for improving quality going forward. Our System At our Product Quality Forum held each year in November, we reward standout quality improvement initiatives selected from all LIXIL Group companies worldwide and share those LIXIL Corporation set up the Quality Assurance division in Technology function, which achievements across the Group. In FYE 2020, we posted a video globally on our internal social media, reports directly to the company president, and works to develop robust companywide which attracted approximately 500 live viewers and was replayed by approximately 1,800 people. product quality management systems and resolve any quality-related issues. The LIXIL Group has appointed a quality manager for LIXIL International who oversees quality All-Employee Awareness Survey and Action Plan control outside Japan. We conducted our first survey on quality awareness in Favorable Not favorable We have integrated important functions of development, manufacturing, and sales Favorable score FYE 2020, targeting all employees at all Group companies into two of our technology companies, and strive to achieve ultimate quality in each in Japan. We obtained a good grasp of how aware our business operation. We have appointed a chief quality officer (CQO) in each company employees are about quality by targeting not only design who oversees product quality department efforts to guarantee the quality of products and production areas, but all other departments as well, Items on and after-sales services and resolve any quality-related issues. In addition, our sales including sales and corporate departments. We are now quality awareness and services team in Japan manages individual quality management systems as a formulating an action plan for each department based on the survey results. Looking ahead, we plan to conduct an annual functional department in the pursuit of quality customer service. survey to check how successful our initiatives have been. CQOs and other relevant members meet on a biannual basis at the LIXIL Group quality management conference, and conduct regular management reviews. LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2020 69 Commitment Management & Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society External Evaluation & Action Plan Customers & Supply Chain > Product Safety & Quality 06 CUSTOMERS & Enhancing Quality across Entire Product Lifecycle better, readily understandable product explanations, including experience-based showroom displays and online videos, in order to ensure that customers select appropriate products. We also Stage Gate System In product development, the LIXIL Group categorizes the SUPPLY CHAIN To ensure customer safety, LIXIL Corporation is focused on have a customer service center to respond to queries. various processes from research and development to enhancing quality across the full lifecycle of all products, Responding to Product Defects & Issues commercialization and merchandising into “stages” and from development through to design, procurement, places “gates” between transitions to subsequent stages. Customers & Supply Chain manufacturing, distribution, and after-sales support. We have a system in place for incorporating customer opinions with Under this system, we ensure evaluations are carried out regard to product-related accidents and defects. We thoroughly and management decisions are made properly. To raise Design & Development investigate the cause of any problem via the system and Responsible Supply Chain implement improvements, not only in product design, but across the level of completion in design, quality, and production, Management During the development stage, we aim to strengthen our ability all processes from manufacturing to retail distribution. In order to the development, manufacturing, and sales departments to pinpoint fresh customer value by introducing techniques such prevent product defects and problems, the improvement process collaborate with each other at each stage of the development Product Safety & Quality as fault tree analysis (FTA), failure mode and effect analysis also covers not only pursuing organizational management to ensure process. The criteria for gate evaluation are also re-examined Customer Satisfaction (FMEA), and design review based on failure mode (DRBFM), improvements are fully integrated, but also developing governance on an ongoing basis to promote the development of even which are used globally to assess risks that may arise when frameworks to promote better management. using products. higher-quality products. Furthermore, to help conserve our environment, we are working to expand sales of environment-conscious products, Concept of Stage Gate System and are actively developing our future environmental strategy vision. We are also developing frameworks to ensure accurate • Reflecting customer opinions Design & development • Verification based on LIXIL safety standards Customer opinion recognition of and compliance with local and international using the Stage Gate System GATE 1 Project start approval laws and regulations as we continue to pursue collaborative development projects around the world. Safety design GATE 2 Business plan approval Materials & Parts Procurement Materials & • Quality  terms-based procurement from our suppliers parts procurement • Joint improvement initiatives We set quality standards to which our business partners must adhere. We also design joint activity themes to help resolve GATE 3 Final business plan approval quality-related issues whenever necessary. Safety checks • T ests confirming fulfillment of quality Commercialization, Commercialization, Production & Sales production & sales standards GATE 4 Market launch & • Conformance indicators for sales materials mass production approval We only commercialize products that have undergone and Monitoring quality passed rigorous stress tests and quality checks for durability, information GATE 5 Review weather resistance, and other properties. Products that require • R eflecting customer opinions by specific labeling to indicate conformance with safety and quality Responding to product investigating problems and implementing defects & issues improvement frameworks standards are clearly marked in our catalogues and other sales * The above concept is developed into practical working solutions by our materials as meeting required criteria. We also strive to provide individual business divisions and regions. LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2020 70 Commitment Management & Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society External Evaluation & Action Plan Customers & Supply Chain > Product Safety & Quality 06 CUSTOMERS & Responding to Serious Product-Related Accidents Number of Legal Infringements and Significant Product-Related Accidents Number of legal infringements FYE 2018 1 FYE 2019 1 FYE 2020 1 SUPPLY CHAIN At LIXIL Corporation in Japan, whenever a product-related Number of serious product-related accidents 3 8 7 accident occurs, the product quality department collects Emergency Procedure for Responding to Accidents information within 24 hours of receiving notification, and Customers & Supply Chain Customer Accident occurs sends an emergency notice to relevant departments. If Inform Respond an accident that could have a serious impact occurs, Responsible Supply Chain the customer service center reports it directly to senior Department receiving the initial information Customer service center Management Report First report Initial guidance Cooperate management to ensure a swift response. The center also within Relevant departments Report major accidents Product Safety & Quality cooperates with other departments to formulate on-site 24 hours Product quality department responses and thoroughly investigate accidents. We submit LIXIL Personnel handling initial information Customer Satisfaction Inform a report to relevant government authorities within 10 days Investigate & compile an Serious Product Accident Committee within 10 days of an accident occurring as stipulated in Japan’s Consumer Request effective response meeting Product Safety Act. We also seek to prevent a recurrence Regulatory reporting personnel Request by reflecting any lessons learned from accidents in product report Report Report design, and proactively developing technologies that help ensure accident prevention and safety. Authorities Consumer Affairs Agency National Institute of Technology & Evaluation (NITE) Regarding suspected legal infringements, our technology or other relevant departments will ascertain if an infringement Materials Safety Act for approximately 450 employees in Long-Term Guarantee to Facilitate Long, has actually occurred, and submit a report to the authorities different job types across 10 offices. Safe Customer Use concerned. We follow a similar process for suspected legal infringements as we do for product-related accidents, namely, Offering Information on How to Use Today, houses are designed to last much longer than in we conduct a thorough investigation of the cause and implement Products Safely the past. In recognition of these changing trends, LIXIL appropriate countermeasures to prevent a recurrence. Corporation offers a maximum 10-year LIXIL Long-term The LIXIL Group publishes product-specific instructions for Guarantee Service that enables customers to use products Product Safety Education all major products on the website to ensure safe product safely over a longer period of time. use, along with videos illustrating how to look after and clean LIXIL Corporation provides product quality training tailored to products to ensure appropriate use. individual job types and levels. In FYE 2020, we conducted product safety training for new technical-stream employees, WEB Product manuals (Japanese only) and training sessions on Japan’s Electrical Appliance and WEB How-to videos (Japanese only) LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2020 71 Commitment Management & Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society External Evaluation & Action Plan Customers & Supply Chain > Product Safety & Quality 06 CUSTOMERS & External Activities Safety Education Program: Raising Consumer Safety Awareness SUPPLY CHAIN Think about Safety in the Home As part of its product safety-related activities, LIXIL LIXIL Corporation creates opportunities for consumers to Customers & Supply Chain Corporation has developed a safety training program in consider how to ensure safety and prevent accidents in the cooperation with NPO the Association of Corporation home, by conducting themed lectures on safety in the home Responsible Supply Chain and Education (ACE) for fifthand sixth-year elementary at product safety seminars hosted by the National Federation Management students, and provided this program free of charge to school of Regional Women’s Organizations and other consumer Product Safety & Quality teachers and educators. LIXIL employees also participate in organizations. In FYE 2020, we held seminars at five different this program, and, in FYE 2020, delivered 10 lessons at four locations for approximately 490 participants. We also Customer Satisfaction schools to approximately 350 children. The program has won an delivered lectures to school teachers and consumer centers Award of Excellence at the 9th Commendation on Instructional on four occasions, attracting approximately 120 attendees. Materials for Consumer Education in 2014 conducted by the National Institute on Consumer Education (NICE). Product safety seminar WEB Details about the activity (Japanese only) LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2020 72 Commitment Management & Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society External Evaluation & Action Plan Customers & Supply Chain > Customer Satisfaction 06 CUSTOMERS & CUSTOMER SATISFACTION The LIXIL Group is constantly enhancing its products and services and promoting communication across the Group to ensure continued and improved customer satisfaction. SUPPLY CHAIN Our Approach & System To ensure that our customers enjoy all aspects Improving Customer Safety in Times of Disasters of their living spaces, the LIXIL Group seeks to Customers & Supply Chain maximize customer satisfaction among both LIXIL Corporation started to provide disaster-response information in recognition of the more frequent occurrence construction-related commercial customers of natural disasters in Japan and the rising number of related customer enquiries. We have also been working to Responsible Supply Chain and end consumers. Developing and providing strengthen our support systems so that we can respond to customer enquiries even during a disaster. Management products and services that fulfill customer Product Safety & Quality expectations and communicating effectively Communicating Key Points Resilient Customer Support with relevant stakeholders are vital to improving for Disaster Response and Recovery through Cloud Solutions Customer Satisfaction customer satisfaction. LIXIL Corporation’s The damage to personal homes in times of disasters greatly During a disaster, we receive a higher number of emergency Marketing function and Quality Assurance division impacts the everyday lives of our customers. Our website offers inquiries from affected customers. However, it is difficult for our work consistently together to improve our products relevant information for each type of natural disaster, including call centers to respond if they have also suffered damage. To and services based on customer feedback. how to repair LIXIL products, to help customers get back on their ensure we can continue to support our customers even in times of feet as soon as possible and regain a sense of normality. We try disasters, we have moved our contact facility onto the cloud and hard to ensure this information is widely available by regularly increased our number of satellite bases. This has enabled us to providing disaster-related information through our LIXIL Owners create a more decentralized call center network in order to make Club, as well as by posting it on our official social media accounts our infrastructure more resilient, and establish a system that is when a disaster strikes. more responsive to customer concerns in times of disasters. Product-specific disaster-response examples: • How to flush a toilet in times of suspended or restricted water supply • How to cope with a collapsed carport or terrace roof • How to deal with broken window panes • How to prevent freezing in bathrooms and bathtubs Types of disasters: earthquake, flood, power outage, typhoon, water outage, heavy snowfall/freezing WEB  ey points for responding to specific disasters K (Japanese only) LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2020 73 Commitment Management & Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society External Evaluation & Action Plan Customers & Supply Chain > Customer Satisfaction 06 CUSTOMERS & Implementing the Six Sigma Quality Management Method Collecting VOC* information (ensuring customers’ opinions are recorded) Analysis (visualization) CS improvement activities (making effective use of customers’ opinions) SUPPLY CHAIN LIXIL Corporation considers customer satisfaction Customer Service Center 100,000 inquiries /mth VOC* Products database End user a significant element of its business activities. In order Repair Center to listen attentively to the voices of our customers (VOC) 150,000 inquiries /mth Customers & Supply Chain and channel those opinions into creating better products Contractor Services General Product Information and services, we have introduced the Six Sigma system. Support Center 40,000 inquiries /mth 300,000 cases /mth Responsible Supply Chain This system involves listening to customer opinions and Management pinpointing issues for improvement. Then, instead of making Outlet Showrooms Product Safety & Quality judgements based on instinct and experience, we focus on * VOC: Voice of Customers facts derived from numerical analyses to help control any variation Customer Satisfaction Improvement activities in our work and services, ultimately helping lead to quality improvements. We have established a cross-functional team WEB Examples of service improvement through the VOC (Japanese only) across Group companies to promote the improvement initiatives. Professional User Satisfaction of Products Customer Inquiries Reflecting Commercial Customer Opinions and Support Services in Our Products and Services （%） (Thousand) (%) 90 500 100 LIXIL Corporation conducts satisfaction surveys of our 400 80 80 commercial customers. In FYE 2020, we achieved 300 60 70 satisfaction rates of 78.3% in terms of product quality, 200 40 and 73.5% in terms of customer support (the average of 60 100 20 satisfaction levels achieved by showrooms, call centers, 50 0 0 aftersales maintenance, and sales representatives). FYE 2018 FYE 2019 FYE 2020 FYE 2018 FYE 2019 FYE 2020 We also collect approximately 300,000 comments from Satisfaction level on product quality Response rate Number of inquiries (monthly average) customers each month through our customer service Satisfaction level on showroom services Satisfaction level on services by sales reps center and product information support center. This data is Inquiries: By phone, email or fax Satisfaction level on after-sales maintenance Response rate: Number of responses / Total number of inquiries stored in our database and analyzed to encourage relevant Satisfaction level on call center support departments to implement improvement measures and ultimately boost the quality of our products and services. In to customers who have recently contacted the center to mystery shopping surveys. We use the results to improve our addition, our customer service center sends a questionnaire rate the quality of service received, and also conducts communication and enhance customer satisfaction. LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2020 74 Commitment Management & Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society External Evaluation & Action Plan Customers & Supply Chain > Customer Satisfaction 06 CUSTOMERS & Training: How to Improve Customer Satisfaction LIXIL Owners Club SUPPLY CHAIN We hold practical construction-related training workshops for With the launch of our membership-based LIXIL Owners commercial customers on window sashes, doors, exteriors, Club in Japan, LIXIL Corporation is seeking to improve kitchens, and bathrooms with the aim of improving end customer satisfaction by providing information and Customers & Supply Chain consumer satisfaction. We also conduct regular training services that will enable customers to use purchased items for employees to improve their level of knowledge about comfortably and safely over a long period of time. Responsible Supply Chain our overall work and products so that they can resolve Management any problems customers face. Furthermore, we seek to Examples of available services: Product Safety & Quality boost employee motivation by offering awards for excellent • Ability to extend guarantee period free of charge customer service skills. • Long-term guarantee service (additional payment required Customer Satisfaction for a five or ten year guarantee) • Maintenance package (additional payment required) Product training Hands-on product knowledge training using actual toilets Construction training WEB LIXIL Owners Club (Japanese only) Carport foundation construction training Recognition system Award recipients of a regularly-held customer service contest LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2020 75 Commitment Management & Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society Society External Evaluation & Action Plan 07 SOCIETY SOCIETY We uphold the human rights of all our stakeholders in our determined drive to promote business activities and contribute to society. Society Human Rights Stakeholder Engagement Community LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2020 76 Commitment Management & Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society Society External Evaluation & Action Plan Society > Highlight 07 Highlight Stakeholder Engagement SOCIETY Target Proactively engage with LIXIL' s key stakeholders. Society Meeting with investors LIXIL Community Day participants Human Rights approximately 357times Stakeholder Engagement Community 357 （ 2020 年 3 月 期 ） 回 15,000 employees (FYE 2020) (FYE 2020) LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2020 77 Commitment Management & Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society Society External Evaluation & Action Plan Society > Human Rights 07 SOCIETY HUMAN RIGHTS We are committed to operating as a sustainable, responsible corporate citizen that respects human rights. Our Approach & Principles Other Principles Based on the LIXIL Group Human Rights Principles, we strive LIXIL Group LIXIL Group bases the formation of its corporate principles to uphold the human rights of all stakeholders, including Human Rights Principles upon a fundamental commitment to uphold human rights. Society customers, suppliers and other business partners, residents living near our factories and offices, and our employees. • Code of Conduct Our commitment Human Rights • Charter of Corporate Behavior Human Rights Principles Our approach • Occupational Health and Safety Principles Stakeholder Engagement • Respect the human rights of customers • Personal Data Protection Principles Community LIXIL Group business activities are built on a fundamental • Respect the human rights in the workplace • Procurement Principles respect for human rights. The LIXIL Group Human Rights • Respect the human rights of business partners Principles, established in March 2016, align with international • Due diligence PDF Code of Conduct (3MB) • Remedy standards, including the International Bill of Human Rights, PDF Charter of Corporate Behavior (48KB) • Education/instilling the International Labour Organization (ILO) Declaration on PDF Occupational Health and Safety Principles (41KB) Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, and the United Our engagement WEB Personal Data Protection Principles Nations (UN) Guiding Principles on Business and Human PDF Procurement Principles (93KB) • Cooperation with stakeholders Rights, and we seek to instill a solid understanding of the • Reporting principles among all officers and employees. If there are any discrepancies between the internationally recognized human PDF LIXIL Group Human Rights Principles (76KB) rights standards and the laws and regulations of individual countries or regions, we adhere to the higher commitment. If any contradictions exist, we seek a way of respecting internationally recognized human rights standards while complying with local laws and regulations. LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2020 78 Commitment Management & Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society Society External Evaluation & Action Plan Society > Human Rights 07 SOCIETY Our System Human Rights Risk Management Process LIXIL Group established the Human Rights Due Diligence Task Force in FYE 2018, comprising members from a broad range of departments including Corporate Responsibility, Human Resources, and Compliance, with the aim of Commitment Analysis & evaluation Corrective action Information disclosure Society strengthening and ensuring strict adherence to human rights due diligence processes* as a company that operates Maintain a clear grasp of human rights Conduct human rights risk assessment Pinpoint any human rights issues within issues we face by communicating Regularly disclose relevant information Human Rights globally. Going forward, we will extend the scope of these with stakeholders, and determine our across our operations and supply chain, LIXIL based on the results of our human through our corporate responsibility the results of which will be analyzed and rights risk assessment, and implement processes to the entire Group and provide transparent human rights principles and key issues. report and website. Stakeholder Engagement Reflect human rights elements in other evaluated by the Human Rights Due measures to reduce human rightsreports on our performance. LIXIL Group has signed the UN corporate principles and policies. Diligence Task Force. related risks. Community Global Compact, and is a member of the Human Rights Due Diligence and the Human Rights Education Working Groups Concern-raising system of the Global Compact Network Japan. Receiving reports from materials suppliers, subcontractors, and other business partners * Human rights due diligence: To put in place measures that identify, prevent, reduce, or respond to any negative impact on human rights Conducting consistent human rights training caused by the activities of a company or its related companies, and to regularly monitor their effectiveness. CR Management Structure As of March 31, 2020 Human Resources Legal Human Rights Due Diligence Task Force Report Report Report PA/IR/EA/CR* Administrative office: Finance Officers in charge Corporate Responsibility office CR Committee (Chaired by Chief Public Each base Decision-making bodies Technology/Quality/Environment Members: ・LIXIL Group Board of Directors Affairs Officer) Corporate Responsibility office Each department (Meets quarterly) ・LIXIL Group executive officers R&D Compliance department Risk Management department Marketing Human Resources function Instruction Quality Assurance division Instruction & support Logistics・Procurement division & support LIXIL Water Technology representative Technology Businesses LIXIL Housing Technology representative * Public Affairs/Investor Relations/External Affairs/Corporate Responsibility LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2020 79 Commitment Management & Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society Society External Evaluation & Action Plan Society > Human Rights 07 SOCIETY Commitment: Human Rights Principles and Key Human Rights Issues (1) P  rovide equal opportunity and (5) Ensure occupational health and safety prohibit discrimination The LIXIL Group is working hard to strengthen our human Providing employees, customers, visitors, business partners, rights due diligence. After deciding our principles in FYE Providing fair and equitable employment and other and anyone else on our business premises with a safe and Society 2016, we conducted risk mapping in FYE 2017 in our opportunities irrespective of race, color, religion, national or hygienic working environment that fulfills international, Corporate Responsibility (CR) Committee, which is made ethnic origin, ancestry, age, disability, gender, pregnancy, national, and/or industry-defined standards. Human Rights up of executive officers in charge of different head office marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity or functions and representatives of our individual technology expression, political or personal belief, or union membership, (6) Prohibit harassment Stakeholder Engagement businesses. We invited human rights NGO Business for and prohibiting discrimination on these grounds. Community Social Responsibility (BSR)* to present a lecture on social Providing a working environment that is free from trends relating to business and human rights and pinpointed (2) Prohibit forced and child labor discrimination, harassment and bullying of any kind, and any human rights risks in LIXIL product life cycles. Then any other offensive or disrespectful conduct. in FYE 2018, our Human Rights Due Diligence Task Force Prohibiting forced labor, bonded labor and other forms of sought external consulting support to help create a survey labor by restraint, indentured labor or prisoner labor, and (7) L  egal, fair, and transparent acquisition and sheet of 76 relevant items and conduct a test survey run labor procured through slavery or human trafficking. Child use of personal data across our head office functions. labor is also prohibited. The LIXIL Group has investigated the extent of the human Complying with laws and regulations, internal rules, and rights impact of our business operations by considering (3) R  espect freedom of association and collective relevant guidelines relating to personal information. Ensuring the results of the above measures, the LIXIL Group Code of bargaining personal information is obtained fairly and lawfully and is Conduct, and global trends on human rights. stored and handled in such a way as to prevent improper The Human Rights Due Diligence Task Force determined Guaranteeing employee freedom of association and acquisition, use, transfer, disclosure, or leakage. the following seven key issues that should be focused approving the exercising of collective bargaining. on to help reduce potential human rights risks. These seven issues were submitted to and approved by the CR (4) Ensure decent wages and working hours Committee, Board of Directors, and executive officers. The key issues will be reviewed based on the results of our human Paying wages that meet statutory standards, and prohibiting rights risk assessment to be conducted every three years. exceeding the statutory maximum number of working hours. * The human rights NGO BSR: A global non-profit organization that specializes in the development of sustainable business strategies and solutions. LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2020 80 Commitment Management & Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society Society External Evaluation & Action Plan Society > Human Rights 07 SOCIETY Analysis & Evaluation: Specifying Human Rights Risks Corrective Action: Measures to Reduce Human Rights Risks We are introducing several methods, centered primarily around human rights risks. Currently, we have not identified any Going forward, we will continue developing initiatives to help the investigations by our Human Rights Due Diligence Task items requiring an urgent response, but we are working on fully understand and reduce human rights risks through our Force, to enable us to fully understand and address potential improvements to help reduce potential future risks. FYE 2021 human rights risk assessment. Furthermore, we Society are engaging in various activities to promote the upholding of Method Relevant human rights and the addressing of human rights risks. Detail Human Rights (responsible department) key issues Stakeholder Engagement Human rights risk assessment We conduct human rights risk assessment every three years. In FYE 2021, we are surveying our staff at (1) to (7) Training (Human Rights Due Diligence senior manager level or higher who work in departments that are closely linked to the key human rights Task Force) issues and who can provide global support. The assessment is based on a test run which was conducted Community • Compliance education and training for all employees in head office departments in FYE 2018 and covers the seven key human rights issues. We will analyze the results of the assessment to fully grasp potential future risks and take action to reduce them. • Convey human rights-related information on internal social Occupational safety audit We conduct an annual occupational safety audit of Japanese bases through checklists, questionnaires, (2), (4), (5) media that all employees can access (Quality Assurance division) and onsite visits to confirm compliance status primarily with laws and regulations relating to the key • Hold seminars in the CR Committee run by human rights NGO human rights issues. We audited 55 Japan bases in FYE 2020. We are working on any necessary responses based on the audit results, and holding information-sharing BSR meetings between LIXIL Housing Technology (LHT) Japan and LIXIL Water Technology (LWT) Japan. Employee opinion surveys We regularly conduct employee opinion surveys of all global employees. Each department seeks to make (1), (4), (5), Preventing Human Rights Violations at Factories, (Human Resources function) improvements based on the survey results. We also reflect the survey results in our global strategies and (6) Bases, and Suppliers measures for promoting diversity, inclusion, and other factors. CR Employee Opinion Surveys (P40) • Correct problems discovered during occupational safety audits • Respond to opinions voiced through community dialogues Community dialogue Our Japan-based factories and sales and retail bases seek to understand human rights and other risks (1), (2), (7) (Corporate Responsibility by conducting community dialogues with various local stakeholders. We have held more than 130 such (reduction of noise, improvement of factory working office) dialogues over the past eight years. environments, etc.) CR  ocal Community Engagement: Community Dialogue in Factories and Sales and L Retail Bases (P91) • Confirm status of human rights initiatives through responsible procurement surveys Responsible procurement We confirm the status of human rights-related initiatives by asking our suppliers to complete a (1) to (7) surveys questionnaire. (Logistics・Procurement The surveys not only consider human rights issues, but also cover areas of CSR management, fair division) business, labor, occupational health and safety, conservation of the global environment, and contribution to the community. CR Conducting and Following Up on Responsible Procurement Surveys (P67) Other relevant activity: Group enterprise risk management (ERM) LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2020 81 Commitment Management & Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society Society External Evaluation & Action Plan Society > Human Rights 07 SOCIETY Future Plans Concern-Raising System undergoing health checks, and recognizing employees’ Human Rights Risk Assessment and Initiatives to preferences for either male or female uniforms (if factories Reduce Risk • Concern-raising system that is available to all Group that allocate uniforms have the appropriate toilet and employees, including those at subsidiaries outside Japan changing facilities). We also launched WING NIJI office, We will conduct human rights risk assessment as detailed Society We receive concerns through LIXIL Compliance Hotline – where we provide support for workers with disabilities and below, pinpointing issues that require addressing to reduce Speak Up!, which is available online in 16 languages. In create a comfortable working environment for all regardless potential risks, and take action. Human Rights Japan, we also have a direct reporting process for voicing of ability or disability. concerns to managers and compliance officers as well as an FYE 2021: Stakeholder Engagement option to report concerns via a third-party law firm. CR Three Strategic Pillars: Diversity & Inclusion (P27) We are conducting a human rights risk assessment of staff at Community CR Diversity & Equal Opportunity (P34) the senior manager level or higher who work in departments WEB Concern-Raising System that are closely linked to the key human rights issues and who • Occupational safety can provide global support (from July 2020). • Receive reports from materials suppliers, subcontractors, and We ensure appropriate management of working hours. We also FYE 2022: other business partners support the promotion of good health, encourage teleworking Based on the results of our FYE 2021 human rights risk In Japan, we have established a contact point via an external and implement flexible shift systems in response to infectious assessment and after examining the survey items, we will law firm. We receive reports from overseas countries via the disease outbreaks, and strengthen hygiene management. conduct a human rights risk assessment of all employees. LIXIL Compliance Hotline – Speak Up! CR Occupational Health & Safety (P45) Re-Examining Key Human Rights Issues WEB Receiving Compliance Information from Business Partners PDF LIXIL's Response to COVID-19 (399KB) After conducting both surveys, we will re-examine the validity Promoting Respect for Human Rights in the Advocacy and Community Support for Upholding of the key human rights issues, taking into account the type, Workplace Human Rights scale, and impact of potential human rights risks. • Create workplaces that uphold diversity • Support UNICEF’s Children’s Rights in Sport Principles Internal and External Information Sharing We have a network of allies among staff who understand • Became the first Japanese company to announce support for and support sexual minorities. We view same-sex partners the American Chamber of Commerce in Japan’s proposal to We will inform employees and other stakeholders about the key as spouses and create a comfortable working environment recognize the right of sexual minority couples to marry human rights issues and related topics that LIXIL will address. for all and apply certain human resource systems. This • Donate SATO Toilet Systems for developing countries to refugee includes providing leaves and payments for congratulatory camps or condolence events, arranging times and locations for LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2020 82 Commitment Management & Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society Society External Evaluation & Action Plan Society > Stakeholder Engagement 07 SOCIETY STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT The LIXIL Group proactively engages with stakeholders to help improve the quality of people’s daily lives and resolve social issues. Our Approach The LIXIL Group’s success depends on the support of a broad range of stakeholders. We are Society committed to proactively engaging in dialogue with all of our stakeholders, including customers, Customers Employees Human Rights business partners, members of the communities where our operational facilities are located, Stakeholder Engagement shareholders and investors, and our employees Business Community NPOs & NGOs and their families, to collect and reflect their partners opinions in our business operations and corporate social responsibility activities. Relationship with Stakeholders Educational Local LIXIL and communities The LIXIL Group invites external experts to hold sustainability workshops for the Corporate Group research institutions Responsibility (CR) Committee, which consists of executive officers from each functional division in the head office and representatives from each technology business. So far, we have held lively discussions Shareholders Government around various themes, such as contributing to & investors authorities Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) through our business, and reflected the content of those discussions in LIXIL Group initiatives. International Industrial organizations associations LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2020 83 Commitment Management & Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society Society External Evaluation & Action Plan Society > Stakeholder Engagement 07 SOCIETY Key Stakeholder Engagement Government Authorities and Customers CR Details (P73) Shareholders and Investors WEB Details Industrial Associations We incorporate customer opinions, and provide timely We held 357 discussions this year with investors Engaging in vigorous and transparent dialogue with Society and appropriate disclosure on our products and around the world to help promote sustainable growth government authorities is necessary to shape a services. We offer customer support via telephone, and enhance corporate value. We disclose timely and sustainable society. As part of this process, we are Human Rights email, and 130 showrooms worldwide. transparent information in English and Japanese through involved in several industrial and business associations our Annual Report (Integrated Report from FYE 2020), whose missions include engaging with public authorities Stakeholder Engagement our investor relations web pages, and the Tokyo Stock on behalf of their respective industries, including Community Exchange website. window sashes, plumbing, and metals. Participating Suppliers CR Details (P66) in these associations helps keep us up-to-date with current and pending changes in laws and international agreements that may affect our business. We build and maintain strong relationships with our Employees CR Details (P32) suppliers by facilitating two-way communication. Based (Total political contributions: Less than JPY 1.1 million in on the results of our responsible procurement surveys, The LIXIL Group boasts approximately 76,000 FYE 2018; Less than JPY 0.8 million in FYE 2019; Less we share our Procurement Principles, recognize employees. We strive to create an inspiring working than JPY 0.3 million in FYE 2020) current circumstances, and follow through on promised environment that encourages diversity and incorporates (Total fees relating to industrial associations and others: improvements. We also hold regular meetings with employee opinions expressed through regular global JPY 97.6 million in FYE 2018; JPY 86.2 million in FYE suppliers to share information on regulatory trends and employee opinion surveys or discussions between the 2019; JPY 64.5 million in FYE 2020) new procurement strategies. union and the company. * ASD Americas Holding (American Standard) and GROHE Group (GROHE) have started to be included in the above calculation from FYE Local Communities CR Details (P88) 2015 and FYE 2017, respectively, following mergers and acquisitions, and Permasteelisa Group from FYE 2019. NPOs, NGOs, and Educational and Research Institutions The LIXIL Group operates 97 factories worldwide. As a responsible corporate citizen, in addition to respecting We partner with non-profit organizations (NPOs), nonlocal cultures and customs and creating responsible governmental organizations (NGOs), and educational products and jobs, we also contribute to the development and research institutions to facilitate research and of the communities in which we operate. We hold development related to global sanitation, and support community dialogues at factories and sales bases in Japan environmental education for the next generation. to encourage communication with local residents. LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2020 84 Commitment Management & Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society Society External Evaluation & Action Plan Society > Stakeholder Engagement 07 SOCIETY Stakeholder Cooperation in Our Three Strategic Pillars LIXIL Corporation is pursuing cooperative initiatives together ● Water Conservation & Environmental Sustainability with stakeholders to help promote its Three Strategic Pillars. My Bottle Promotion Campaign ● Global Sanitation & Hygiene We are taking determined action for reducing plastic waste Society Toilets for All Project together with customers through our My Bottle Promotion campaign. The campaign, launched in 2017, gives bottles Human Rights End-user customers, professional customers such as with the LIXIL logo to customers who ask for a price building contractors, and LIXIL employees are participating quotation on water filter faucet systems at our showrooms. Stakeholder Engagement in our Toilets for All project, which was launched in 2017 LIXIL water filter faucet systems help reduce water Community with the aim of deepening understanding of sanitation consumption and CO2 emissions through their Eco-Handles problems in developing countries and encouraging and other functions. People can reduce plastic bottle waste improvements. by filling their bottles with filtered tap water and bringing In 2017 and 2018, for each LIXIL integrated shower toilet them to school or the office. sold, LIXIL Corporation donated one of its innovative SATO In 2017, we have also distributed LIXIL bottles to all LIXIL Toilet Systems to a country in Asia or Africa. Those donations Group employees in Japan and replaced the taps in our totaled 400,000 units over the two-year period, helping offices across Japan with LIXIL water filter faucet systems to improve the sanitation for some two million people. encourage our employees to conserve water. In 2019, we donated a portion of the sales of our integrated shower toilets to UNICEF through Make a Splash! partnership with the organization. The donation totaled My Bottle, approximately JPY 26 million, which is being used to build My Style. the infrastructure to help install safe and sanitary toilets, and マイボトルに変える。 to raise awareness of sanitation in local communities. それは、一人ひとりにできる エコアクション。 WEB Toilets for All Project (Japanese only) ペッ ペッ トボトルを多く使う暮らしから、 トボトルを多く使う暮らしから、 CR Make a Splash! (P22) マイボトルを持つ暮らしへ。 マイボトルを持つ暮らしへ。 ひとつの変化が、 ひとつの変化が、 地球環境によい影響を与え、 地球環境によい影響を与え、 暮らしのクオリティまで高めていく。 暮らしのクオリティまで高めていく。 自分もはじめてみよう。 自分もはじめてみよう。 Children with the donated SATO toilets LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2020 85 Commitment Management & Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society Society External Evaluation & Action Plan Society > Stakeholder Engagement 07 SOCIETY ● Water Conservation & Environmental Sustainability THINK HEAT: ventilation, and other ideas for creating living environments that can help achieve both good health and environmental SDG House Let’s THINK about Ecoand People-Friendly conservation. LIXIL is cooperating on the SDG House project which tackles Temperatures SDGs in the housing sector to help achieve sustainable cities and communities. The SDG House project has been THINK HEAT is a program that provides us diverse designed primarily by professors Norichika Kanie and Hiroto Society opportunities to consider with stakeholders the importance Kobayashi from Keio University Graduate School and full-time of indoor temperature, which can cause heatstroke or heat lecturer Norihisa Kawashima from Meiji University around the Human Rights shock, and the efficient use of heaters and air conditioners, concept of creating housing that offers ultimate comfort for which account for approximately 28% of household energy both residents and society at large. Under that concept, the Stakeholder Engagement consumption. Our aim here is to help promote climate team has built a model house that it hopes will become the Community change mitigation and adaptation. gold standard by 2030 by conducting quantitative testing We also work with local authorities through our Cool and evaluation of SDGs-related impacts across all processes Peace Project to build awareness of how to prevent indoor from design through construction and operation. heatstroke and install sunshade protection. In addition to The SDG House, designed by Kawashima’s architecture firm holding a seminar on how to prevent indoor heatstroke in Nori Architects, was completed in March 2020. Its passive Working with Kumagaya City on testing in houses Kumagaya City, Saitama, we also worked with experts on some design utilizes renewable energy and incorporates various verification testing in 2019 in houses of monitors of the city ingenious features including energy conservation and energy and uninhabited houses equipped with external Style Shade creation measures, sustainable materials and construction sun blinds, all to help prevent heatstroke in the city. We plan methods, water conservation, natural disaster preparedness to develop this project with other local authorities going forward. and response, and IoT functionality. LIXIL has provided a Our ECO Sharing through Windows Project, launched in range of products that can help achieve SDGs including Kyushu in 2019, is a cooperative initiative involving local washbasins and system kitchens with Eco-Handles, the business partners, local authorities, and customers in which Resilience Toilet* that can be used during natural disasters, we donated awnings to public child care centers for every energyand water-saving fixed unit of CO2 we managed to reduce through the sale of toilets, and bath units and thermal windows and other eco-friendly products. exterior doors that offer We also visit elementary schools to give lessons on the a high degree of thermal theme of Healthy Living and Good for the Environment and Conducting lessons in elementary schools in Saitama with business partners insulation. have reached 2,720 children in 38 schools so far. In 2019, * Originally designed for public facilities, so requires special we worked with local business partners on experimentand WEB T  HINK HEAT: Let’s THINK about Ecoand People-Friendly plumbing Temperatures (Japanese only) experience-based classes focusing on thermal insulation, LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2020 86 Commitment Management & Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society Society External Evaluation & Action Plan Society > Stakeholder Engagement 07 SOCIETY ● Diversity & Inclusion Universal Run: Sports Prosthesis Experience Class on transgender employment and toilet use and awareness of transgender issues. The survey results highlighted a clear need Cooperating with Various Organizations to offer a more diverse range of toilet options and encourage the Working together to promote safe sanitary UNICEF Our Universal Run: Sports Prosthesis Experience Class broader acquisition of correct transgender knowledge. facilities in Africa. program, launched in 2017, provides children with a In addition, our Fact-Finding Survey on Public Toilet Use Japan chance to enhance understanding of diversity. Thanks to the by Children with Intellectual or Developmental Disabilities that International Promoting field trials of the water-saving Society cooperation of athletes who use artificial limbs in sports, this we conducted together with the Foundation for Yokohama Cooperation Micro Flush Toilet System in Kenya. Agency (JICA) experience-based class and discussion offers an opportunity Rehabilitation Services revealed several distinct findings, Human Rights to change the way children perceive people with disabilities. including the fact that many such children feel they are not Cooperating to improve the lives of people living in areas without hygienic toilets, To date, the class has attracted 16,600 students from 233 good at dealing with toilet dirt, odor, or sound and that they try WaterAid and compiled together a white paper Stakeholder Engagement schools (as of March to get out of accessible toilet rooms. LIXIL is now considering that analyzes the socioeconomic losses Community associated with poor sanitation. 31, 2020). The classes creating “spacious toilets” that can be used by both men are organized together and women that take into account any surrounding smells, Helping develop sustainable, large-scale Toilet Board potential sanitation solutions as a founding with schools and local sounds, and light in order to make them easier for children Coalition member of this multi-industry group. authorities, and our with developmental disabilities and their caregivers to use in a Conducted awareness surveys with this NPO local employees join in more relaxed manner. In fact, the spacious toilet solution could to identify issues LGBT and other sexual NPO the classes, too. also fulfill other needs, such as elderly couples who need to Nijiiro Diversity minorities encounter when using public toilets, with the aim of creating a safe and accompany each other into the toilet and sexual minorities. comfortable toilet space for all. WEB U  niversal Run: Sports Prosthesis Experience Class Going forward, we intend to cooperate with various (Japanese only) Held toilet-related disaster preparedness organizations to promote public toilets that are easy for all to classes at Obo Elementary School in Tanabe use by developing a firm understanding of the toilet needs City in order to train junior volunteers to help Board of manage regional disaster preparedness. ● Diversity & Inclusion of a diverse range of users Education, Tanabe Provided experience-based opportunities City, Wakayama Survey on Toilets for Universal Use such as wheelchair users, for students to learn about the structure and people with infants, elderly use of toilets such as our Resilience Toilet that can be used during natural disasters. We conduct surveys on toilet use together with universities, people, overseas visitors NPOs, and companies in order to help realize a society to Japan, ostomates, and which offers toilets that all people can feel comfortable and sexual minorities. WEB P  artnership with UNICEF safe when using. We publicized the results of the following PDF Special Report: The True Cost of Poor Sanitation (10.2MB) two surveys in FYE 2020. PDF S  tudy Group on All-Gender Use of Office Toilets survey results WEB T  oilet Board Coalition (Japanese only) (1.9MB) Our Study Group on All-Gender Use of Office Toilets WEB A  ctivities with the NPO Nijiiro Diversity (Japanese only) that we established together with Kanazawa University and PDF F  act-Finding Survey on Public Toilet Use by Children with PDF T  oilet-related disaster preparedness lessons at Obo Elementary Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities (Japanese only) (1.2MB) School (Japanese only) (2.5MB) Comany Inc. surveyed over 30,000 people working in offices LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2020 87 Commitment Management & Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society Society External Evaluation & Action Plan Society > Community 07 SOCIETY COMMUNITY As a corporate citizen, we are working on various activities to help solve community-specific problems. Our Approach & System The LIXIL Group focuses on making a positive LIXIL Community Day social impact in priority areas including Global Our LIXIL Community Day is a day when executives and employees from all workplaces and regions Society Sanitation & Hygiene, Water Conservation & around the world take part in corporate citizenship activities relating to our three strategic pillars during Environmental Sustainability, and Diversity & working hours. Employee participation in the LIXIL Community Day more than doubled in FYE 2020 Human Rights Inclusion, as well as in areas where our expertise compared to the previous year, with approximately 15,000 employees in 33 countries taking part can make the biggest difference. Our CEO is in community cleaning, tree planting, school visit programs, recycling activities, and other projects. Canal cleaning in Milan Stakeholder Engagement Outstanding initiatives were recognized through the LIXIL Community Day Awards. a member of our Endowments and Consulting Community Review Committee, which meets regularly to WEB LIXIL Community Day (Japanese only) screen, assess, and prioritize significant donations and sponsorships in order to ensure our profits ● Global Sanitation & Hygiene Category contribute to society appropriately and effectively. Raising awareness of the importance of sanitary environments through cleaning LIXIL India Sanitaryware, LIXIL Water Technology (LWT) activities in Indian schools Asia Paciﬁc (India) Community Development Expenditures Providing girls in Kenya with handmade cloth napkins to enable them to go to school LWT Japan (LWTJ) sales division, IT department, bathroom and benefit from in-school educational opportunities during menstruation business division, LIXIL Japan Company (LJC) (Japan) (Million Yen) FYE 2018 FYE 2019 FYE 2020 ● Water Conservation & Environmental Sustainability Category Charitable Making eco-bricks* from plastic waste and donating them to an environmental organization 45.5 81.2 70.7 Taguig Office, LWT Asia Pacific (Philippines) donations * Bricks made by filling empty PET bottles with used plastic bags Community Cleaning canals in Milan GROHE Italy, LWT EMENA (Italy) 658.2 1,147.8 1,161.0 investments Conserving 144 drums of water (28,705 liters) in two weeks through various waterLIXIL Housing Technology Japan (LHT-J) human resources Commercial saving measures and general affairs division (Japan) 510.0 510.0 520.0 initiatives ● Diversity & Inclusion Category * FYE 2018 data excludes Permasteelisa Group * Categorization is based on the London Benchmarking Providing food for people in need S Sales, NC Retail Sales Ofﬁce, LWT Americas (US) Group's Guidance Manual Supporting communities by collecting and donating food, toys, and other goods Singapore regional office, LWT Asia Paciﬁc (Singapore) ● Let’s Do It Together Category Recycling milk cartons and teaching about separating waste LIXIL China, LWT Asia Paciﬁc (China) LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2020 88 Commitment Management & Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society Society External Evaluation & Action Plan Society > Community 07 SOCIETY Initiative Examples Providing Safe Sanitation for Communities in Need witnessed a further deterioration in its already insufficient Solving Sanitation Problems in Nearby Communities sanitary environment following the 2010 earthquake. SATO Toilet Systems are innovative, life-saving, low-cost American Standard engineers worked with Plumbers without LIXIL Americas is engaged in tackling sanitation problems solutions that provide safe and hygienic sanitation for people Borders (PWB) to teach students at Haiti Tec Technical within the US. We donate LIXIL products to NGOs that Society in developing countries. In addition to expanding the SATO and Professional Training Center plumbing skills and how provide accommodation for poverty-stricken families and business to reach more people in Asia and Africa, the LIXIL to improve hygiene. In addition, the company donated veterans with disabilities. Teaming up with universities and Human Rights Group has been working on donation activities with non7,900 SATO products to towns and villages in Haiti and public agencies, we also worked to raise public awareness governmental organizations (NGOs) to support communities surrounding countries with the help of NGOs like PWB and of sanitation problems among residents of Lowndes County, Stakeholder Engagement in urgent need, including disaster areas. We are committed Food for the Poor. SATO products were also delivered to Alabama, where 80% of homes are not connected to the Community to helping ensure a safe and sanitary environment as part of survivors of the 2015 devastating earthquake in Nepal with public sewage system. Going forward, we plan to explore the our disaster relief efforts. the help of NGO WaterAid. Through these activities, we possibility of establishing local sewage treatment, and use Inadequate or damaged facilities and insufficient human are working to help provide access to adequate sanitation our products to improve the facilities of 300 households. resources in disaster areas exacerbate already poor sanitary to people living in disaster-affected areas so that they can Meanwhile, LIXIL Asia Pacific donated funds and American conditions and the spread of disease. The Caribbean island feel safer. In 2016, several thousand SATO products were Standard products to a 500-bed facility set up to house of Haiti, the poorest nation in the western hemisphere, delivered to Bangladesh with the help of Bangladesh Rural people infected with COVID-19 in the Philippines. Advancement Committee (BRAC), an international NGO working to support people suffering poverty worldwide. Joining Forces to Reduce Ocean Plastic Year 2018 saw the launch of our Make a Splash! partnership with UNICEF. Focusing on countries in Asia GROHE supports the Pacific Garbage Screening project that and Africa, we will continue working with UNICEF and other brings together an interdisciplinary team of natural scientists, United Nations (UN) bodies, along with international NGOs engineers, marine biologists, and architects working to such as WaterAid and Habitat for Humanity, to increase collect plastic waste before it damages ecosystems in public awareness of the importance of safe and sanitary toilets. oceans and rivers. Approximately 80% of marine plastic waste originates on land and flows into the sea via rivers. CR Global Sanitation & Hygiene (P18) The project seeks to develop floating platforms that can be CR Toilets for All Project (P85) placed at the mouth of rivers to extract plastic particles from the water. Teaching plumbing skills and how to improve hygiene to students in Haiti LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2020 89 Commitment Management & Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society Society External Evaluation & Action Plan Society > Community 07 SOCIETY Turn Water into Food Program: Contributing to Alleviating Drought-Induced Water Shortages The German-modeled, dual-track training program, which Communities by Supporting Water Conservation provides students with technical knowledge and professional At the request of the Indonesian government, LIXIL Indonesia skills on sanitary installation as well as IT and EnglishSince 2012, GROHE has been participating in the Water has extended support for local residents who suffered water language skills, has been in place in Mumbai, India since Society for Life project, which seeks to reduce water usage shortages from summer droughts, and provided approximately 2009. The program was then expanded to New Delhi and by introducing advanced technology and promotional 700m3, or 15% of water used by residents in summer. the Tondo district in Manila, the Philippines. To date, over Human Rights campaigns in the Middle East and Africa, where water is 1,200 young people have taken part in the program, and Stakeholder Engagement extremely scarce. Youth Empowerment: Sanitary Installation Skills near 100% of students have been placed in jobs upon their Part of the initiative revolves around the Turn Water into for a More Secure Future graduation. Training highly skilled installers also helps solve Community Food program, conducted together with local food banks local sanitation problems and therefore also contributes to since 2015. In this program, GROHE purchases food Underprivileged young people in emerging countries often the fulfillment of the UN Sustainable Development Goals packages to donate to local families requiring support, lack the opportunities to learn the knowledge and skills (SDGs), in particular Goal 6 “Clean Water and Sanitation.” equivalent in monetary terms to the amount of money saved to secure stable employment, while at the same time the by introducing GROHE water efficient products. To date, local society suffers a chronic shortage of skilled workers. Career Training: Supporting Female Students the program has provided food support to a total of over GROHE addresses this issue through GROHE Dual Tech Interested in Construction 2,710 families in Saudi Arabia, Egypt, Turkey, and Jordan. training program, conducted in conjunction with Don Additionally in Jordan, which was added in 2018 as a new Bosco Mondo, a German non-profit organization (NPO) LIXIL Americas also trains future plumbers through its Trade recipient country of the donation, water efficient taps were committed to providing education and professional training Up program. As part of this program, we got together with introduced in an all-girls high school, where schools are for disadvantaged young people internationally. Tools & Tiaras, an NPO involved in career training for female among the top public spaces for large water consumption. students interested in entering the construction industry. LIXIL volunteer employees helped hold a summer camp in New Jersey, the US, where one of our offices is located. Tools & Tiaras provides job experience and mentoring opportunities for female students interested in entering a trade, such as electricians, carpenters, or plumbers, all professions in which women have been traditionally underrepresented. Receiving food through the Turn Water into Food program GROHE Dual Tech students at the training facility in Mumbai LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2020 90 Commitment Management & Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society Society External Evaluation & Action Plan Society > Community 07 SOCIETY Supporting Children Local Community Engagement: Community We are currently using these ideas to develop new Dialogue in Factories and Sales and Retail Bases initiatives and are keen to continue this opinion exchange so Through its Christmas Tree Activity, GROHE staff helped that we can work to strengthen our relationships with local three organizations: Two of them support children whose At its factories and sales and retail bases in Japan, LIXIL communities and contribute to regional societies. Society families struggle with poverty or alcoholism, the third of Corporation regularly holds community dialogues with them is a youth welfare service. The children’s wishes were local stakeholders, such as local authorities, neighborhood WEB Details about Community Dialogue (Japanese only) Human Rights hung on Christmas trees at the GROHE plants in Hemer and associations, schools, NPOs, and local companies, on how Stakeholder Engagement Porta Westfalica as well as at the brand’s headquarter in we can cooperate and communicate with and give back LIXIL Omotenashi Toilet Cleaning at Tourist Site Düsseldorf, and GROHE employees made the wishes come to the community. We have held over 130 community Community true. LIXIL Thailand also sought to strengthen community dialogues in total since 2012. In 2014, Shikoku area staff started the LIXIL Omotenashi bonds by fulfilling children’s wish lists at Christmas, and For example, our Handa Plant in Aichi helps local dayToilet Cleaning at Tourist Site initiative to express the holding several events to coincide with Children’s Day, in care centers with emergency evacuation procedures after a Japanese spirit of hospitality by ensuring that visitors were which it provided games and quizzes for about 375 local principal voiced concern that the predominately female staff greeted with clean toilets. As a toilet manufacturer and children and their families. might not be physically capable of evacuating all the children retailer, LIXIL has expanded this unique initiative to 60 safely on their own. LIXIL VIVA Corporation brought together areas in 30 prefectures throughout Japan from Hokkaido to participants from community councils, schools, and centers Kyushu. In FYE 2020, 2,378 employees cleaned toilets in providing employment and support for people with disabilities, 320 public facilities together with local companies. and facilitated an exchange of views on issues such as disaster preparedness, employment for people with disabilities, and WEB L  IXIL Omotenashi Toilet Cleaning at Tourist Site initiative (Japanese only) work experience for junior high-school students. Gifts given to children through the Christmas Tree Activity Community dialogue (LIXIL VIVA) Toilet cleaning initiative LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2020 91 Commitment Management & Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society Society External Evaluation & Action Plan Society > Community 07 SOCIETY Disaster Relief and Reconstruction Activities in Japan Other Community Development Activities LIXIL provides a variety of natural disaster support including Encouraging our employees and their product and monetary donations. When typhoons Faxai Environmental families to participate in voluntary activities Society and Hagibis hit Japan in September and October 2019 conservation to protect forest and mountain environments activities in cooperation with government, NPOs and respectively, we carried out free inspections and adjustment forestry cooperatives. Human Rights of LIXIL products, donated relief money and offered Promoting cultural activities in areas related emergency supplies in hard-hit areas such as Chiba. to our history, such as management of Stakeholder Engagement Cultural activities Having provided LIXIL doors and windows for temporary ceramic and textile museums and galleries, Community and publishing. housing facilities in Iwate, Miyagi, and Fukushima as part of our activities to support the reconstruction effort after the Sanitation, environment, and Offering educational classes at primary March 2011 earthquake in Northeast Japan, we subsequently universal design schools on the global sanitation challenge, collected aluminum materials from those facilities that had educational environmen, and universal design. activities served their purpose, and recycled them to help make the Tokyo 2020 Paralympic Torches. (LIXIL will serve as a Presenting Partner of the Tokyo 2020 Paralympic Torch Relay.) WEB Environmental conservation activities (Japanese only) We have also applied our long years of experience in WEB Cultural activities disaster response research to the development of our WEB  anitation, environment, and universal design educational S Resilience Toilet, activities (Japanese only) which can be WEB Other Japan-based activities (Japanese only) used in the same way as always even during times of natural disaster or water outage. We will continue to strive to provide disaster relief through our products. Paralympic Torch (Photo credit: Tokyo 2020) LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2020 92 Commitment Management & Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society External Evaluation & Action Plan 08 EXTERNAL EXTERNAL EVALUATIONS EVALUATION & ACTION PLAN & ACTION PLAN We display external evaluations and our FYE 2021 action plan. External Evaluation & Action Plan External Evaluations & Awards Action Plan & KPIs LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2020 93 Commitment Management & Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society External Evaluation & Action Plan External Evaluation and Action Plan > External Evaluations & Awards 08 EXTERNAL EXTERNAL EVALUATIONS & AWARDS Evaluations of the Group and Subsidiaries EVALUATION & ACTION PLAN Award Award External Evaluation & Action Plan DJSI World Index (for the first time) S&P/JPX Carbon Efficient Index DJSI Asia-Pacific Index (for the third consecutive year) External Evaluations & Awards Action Plan & KPIs FTSE4Good Index Series, FTSE Blossom Japan Index 2020 Health and Productivity Management Certification (for the fourth consecutive year) (for the fourth consecutive year) Eruboshi (L Star) certification MSCI Japan Empowering Women Index (WIN) (certified based on Japan's Act on Promotion of Women’s Participation (for the fourth consecutive year) and Advancement in the Workplace) S&P Japan 500 ESG Index Silver in corporate catalog category, Japan BtoB Advertising Awards 2019 (for the second consecutive year) Given to our Water & Kitchen Technology Book vol.4, which includes overview of our CR activities Convention Excellence Award from Japanese Association for an Inclusive Society Nadeshiko Brand (for the third consecutive year) Presented collaborative research compiled by the Study Group on Use of All-Gender Office Toilets CDP Water Security A List Company GROHE: German Sustainability Award 2019 (for the second consecutive year) One of the top three Most Sustainable Big Companies in Germany German rman Sustainability Award 2020 TOP 3 Germany’s Most Sustainable Big Companies Gold (the highest award level), Pride Index 2019 GROHE: The B.A.U.M. Environmental and Sustainability Award (for the third consecutive year) from Germany’s corporate network B.A.U.M. Also selected for Best Practice award LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2020 94 Commitment Management & Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society External Evaluation & Action Plan External Evaluation and Action Plan > External Evaluations & Awards 08 EXTERNAL Evaluations of Our Products EVALUATION & ACTION PLAN Award Product or brand being awarded External Evaluation & Action Plan INAX, GROHE, LIXIL, TOSTEM, Kawashima Selkon Textiles iF DESIGN AWARD 2020 27 awards External Evaluations & Awards Action Plan & KPIs 19 products from INAX, GROHE, American Standard, TOSTEM, LIXIL 2019 Good Design Awards Good Design Best 100: INAX Resilience Toilet for natural disasters, INAX Wall Hung Shower Toilet Remote Controller (354-1768) Good Focus Award: INAX Resilience Toilet for natural disasters Parts for Daily Living Award, CHO MONODZUKURI Innovative Parts Water filter cartridge JF-K10, JF-K11 and Components Awards 2019 12 products Excellence Award (METI Minister’s Award) in the Designs that Contribute to the Safety and Security of Children category: 13th Kids Design Awards INAX Resilience Toilet for natural disasters PDF News release (Japanese only) (646KB) 2019 Construction Materials and Facilities Grand Prize TOSTEM LW LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2020 95 Commitment Management & Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society External Evaluation & Action Plan External Evaluation and Action Plan > Action Plan & KPIs 08 EXTERNAL ACTION PLAN & KPIS EVALUATION GOVERNANCE & ACTION PLAN Corporate Governance External Evaluation On track Needs attention Develop Global Standard Governance & Action Plan FYE 2021 targets FYE 2020 progress details Progress level External Evaluations & Awards • To ensure transparent processes and deliberation, we revised our existing regulations and implemented some new ones after reviewing our corporate governance guidelines and regulations Action Plan & KPIs concerning the Board of Directors in October and December 2019. • Restructure governance system as a company with nominating committee, and adopt and embrace • Established Governance Committee as a voluntary and permanent committee under the Board of global best practices. Directors. • Announced plans to merge LIXIL Group Corporation and LIXIL Corporation, which will strengthen monitoring and supervision. • Revised and clarified Nomination Committee’s systems and operations. • Rebuild governance rules and procedures for all Group companies, clarify their execution, regulation, • Held governance seminars for Group companies in Japan. and approval. • Revised jurisdiction rules to suit organizational changes in overseas Group companies. Compliance Reorganize Group-wide compliance system and clarify compliance rules FYE 2021 targets FYE 2020 progress details Progress level • Conducted the specified number of compliance reviews (at each overseas business unit), completed • Establish a system for conducting compliance reviews of appropriately defined business units at a reporting by March, and reflected the results in FYE 2021 measures. frequency determined using a risk-based approach (annual or biennial). • Established compliance committees or alternative meeting structures in all overseas business units. • Establish an effectively functioning system by creating a framework to operate and improve our GroupDistributed compliance guidelines, including fundamental rules. wide compliance system and allocating appropriate resources (budget and human resources). • Held meetings for each committee two to four times a year, submitted meeting agenda and minutes • Establish a system for holding compliance committee meetings or alternative meetings for each to each compliance committee, and built a framework for timely reporting of meeting results to the appropriately defined business unit at least twice a year, and reporting the results in a timely manner Group compliance committee. to the Group compliance committee. • LIXIL Group compliance committee met four times a year. LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2020 96 Commitment Management & Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society External Evaluation & Action Plan External Evaluation and Action Plan > Action Plan & KPIs 08 EXTERNAL Strengthen compliance education and training across the Group FYE 2021 targets FYE 2020 progress details • Basic training completion and pledge rate: 77.6% 98% in Japan, 53.7% overseas (LWT EMENA: 45.6%, Americas: 85.6%, APAC: 10.7%, LIXIL Africa: Progress level • Maintain and improve Group Code of Conduct basic training and pledge mechanism. 99.5%, LBT: 3.1%, four LHT companies (G2J): 99.3%) EVALUATION • Create a central framework for planning and tracking history of compliance education and training. * G2J is the abbreviation for Global to Japan. G2J factories are manufacturing facilities located outside & ACTION PLAN • Basic training completion and pledge rate: 100% • Training completion rate by region and employee level: 100% Japan that manufacture products for the Japanese market. * Overseas data incomplete as pledge was delayed due to COVID-19 pandemic. • Training completion rates by region and employee level were uneven; targets not achieved. Continue External Evaluation to implement in FYE 2021. & Action Plan Unify Group-wide concern-raising system and ensure familiarity External Evaluations & Awards FYE 2021 targets FYE 2020 progress details Progress level Action Plan & KPIs • Familiarity with the internal concern-raising system in Japan: 63.3% (from compliance survey • Ensure LIXIL Compliance Hotline — Speak Up! is well known and used as a common system across conducted FYE 2019). Number of concerns raised: 240 in Japan, 145 overseas (Total: 385) the Group to track and manage concerns raised. • Conducted compliance events in each region principally in October and November to promote • Use Speak Up! as a point of contact for customers and business partners to raise compliance-related education and build awareness. concerns. • Regarding number and summary of internal concerns, we are currently preparing the internal • Disclose important compliance indicators, including number and summary of concerns raised. communication of concerns lodged outside Japan, and external disclosure is still pending. Risk Management Establish a risk management framework that seeks to reduce the frequency and minimize the damage of critical events FYE 2021 targets FYE 2020 progress details Progress level • Foster a culture in which risks are owned by respective executives (risk owners) in all global • Developed risk management systems in all Group companies. organizations. Encourage risk owners and the risk management, financial, and audit functions to • Reassessed important Group risks at the beginning of the year, evaluating them by region on a cooperate in the promotion of risk countermeasures to control enterprise risks on a daily basis. quarterly basis, and monitoring response. • Crisis management systems developed in all Group companies. • Based on the crisis management system, crisis events that occurred in Japan and overseas were • Cultivate a risk management culture across all global organizations to ensure timely escalation of escalated in a timely manner to the Group HQ. incidents, and formulate timeline-driven action plans to ensure appropriate initial countermeasures. • Created a handbook for local companies to ensure thorough initial response and Group-wide implementation of the escalation rules. Distributed this to local managers via the risk manager stationed in each region worldwide. LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2020 97 Commitment Management & Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society External Evaluation & Action Plan External Evaluation and Action Plan > Action Plan & KPIs 08 EXTERNAL Information Security Formulate and instill Group Information Security Policy FYE 2021 targets FYE 2020 progress details Progress level EVALUATION • Reworked a number of detailed information security rules. & ACTION PLAN • Ensure the ability to manage and measure activities formulated under the Group Information Security • Currently conducting information security assessments of five Group companies in Japan. • Currently performing security assessments of overseas Group companies. GROHE assessment completed. Policy. • Ensure the security incident response framework is functioning across the Group. External Evaluation • Completed outline for LJSS incident response framework. • Ensure prompt responses to changes in security-related environments. • Targeted email attack training: conducted twice for 20,000 employees* & Action Plan • Ensure an up-to-date and fully acknowledged policy that complies with all local laws and suits • Information security pledge: 30,000 employees* individual company circumstances. • Information security awareness training (e-learning): conducted for 30,000 employees* • Update the content of security training for employees to reflect changes in the surrounding * Targets: LIXIL Corporation, Group companies in Japan, Dalian factory, TOSTEM Thailand, and LIXIL Vietnam External Evaluations & Awards environment. • Information security incidents: 0 incidents that caused real harm, 7 incidents of ID fraud • Implement an auditing and improvement PDCA cycle as a means of assessing security. • Set and agreed to common rules to encourage stronger global security. Action Plan & KPIs • Strengthened cyberattack surveillance; Introduced managed security services (MSS) in APAC and Africa. Intellectual Property Strategy Introduce a Group Intellectual Property Management Guideline and an IP sharing system, and strengthen the global reach and function of the IP Committee FYE 2021 targets FYE 2020 progress details Progress level • Maximize the value of the Group’s intellectual property by conducting PDCA for the global IP • Clarified global systems for IP functions and strengthened coordination framework. governance structure and processes. • Determined and launched management policy for domain names and power brands. • Hold Global IP conferences to share strategies (at least twice a year). • Conducted two global IP conferences with senior overseas IP managers (August 2019, February 2020). Launch and explore an IP strategy pilot project and form a Group IP strategy FYE 2021 targets FYE 2020 progress details Progress level • Determine a global IP strategy based on the growth strategies of each technology business. • Implemented an IP strategy pilot project. • Prepare an IT infrastructure for implementing the global IP strategy. • Decided to introduce a global IP administration platform, launched introduction project (February 2020). LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2020 98 Commitment Management & Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society External Evaluation & Action Plan External Evaluation and Action Plan > Action Plan & KPIs 08 EXTERNAL FAIR BUSINESS PRACTICES Anti-Corruption, Transparent Political Relations, and Fair Business EVALUATION Determine Group-wide compliance policies, and conduct compliance reviews and compliance education and training & ACTION PLAN FYE 2021 targets FYE 2020 progress details Progress level • Achieved 100% coverage of global compliance policies and guidelines. • Create, communicate, and implement regional and national policies for areas that require them based External Evaluation on global policies and guidelines. Coverage ratios by overseas business unit were uneven; targets not achieved. Continue to implement in FYE 2022. & Action Plan • Establish appropriate review and application frameworks for procedures based on regional and • Training completion rates were uneven by region/specific compliance policy; targets not achieved national policies. • Number of compliance violations: 0 • Establish frameworks for conducting compliance reviews by technology business or other appropriate • Conducted compliance reviews of overseas business units at the required interval, completed External Evaluations & Awards operational unit at the annual or biennial interval determined using a risk-based approach. Uncover, reporting by March, and reflected the results in FYE 2021 measures. analyze, and respond to risks in corresponding policy areas. Action Plan & KPIs • Determined global guidelines for implementing business partner due diligence. Plan to conduct • Establish fixed programs to help minimize the risk of corruption in the supply chain and distributors. training in FYE 2021 and beyond. OUR PEOPLE Diversity and Equal Opportunity Promote the active participation of women in the workplace FYE 2021 targets FYE 2020 progress details Progress level • Achieve at least 30% ratio of women among regularly recruited new hires (LIXIL Corporation, Japan • Ratio of female new graduates employed (incl. those who completed graduate studies): 30.5% only). • Achieve at least 8% ratio of women among managers (LIXIL Corporation, Japan only). • Ratio of women among managers: 5.7% • Achieve female participation rate in leadership training programs of at least 20% (LIXIL Corporation, • Female participation rate in stage 3 of the Talent Acceleration Program (selective training for young Japan only). employees): 33.3% LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2020 99 Commitment Management & Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society External Evaluation & Action Plan External Evaluation and Action Plan > Action Plan & KPIs 08 EXTERNAL Rewarding Workplaces Conduct regular employee opinion surveys across the Group targeting approximately 55,000 employees FYE 2021 targets FYE 2020 progress details Progress level EVALUATION • Engagement index: 35% & ACTION PLAN • Decided to conduct a different survey from the one illustrated on the left (see below) from now on. Achieved engagement score of 56% (+10% y/y) in Japan telecommuting survey (response rate: 62%, • Achieve engagement index of 39% (10% increase on the 35% score achieved in FYE 2018). with sales offices, HQ, and divisions accounting for 64% of responses). External Evaluation • Plan to conduct a Group-wide employee opinion survey at the end of July 2020. We seek to accelerate the cycle of improvements by increasing the frequency of the survey from once every two years to four & Action Plan times a year from FYE 2021. • Achieve favorable response rate in the work-life balance category of 46% (10% increase on the 42% External Evaluations & Awards • Favorable response rate: 44% score achieved in FYE 2018) Action Plan & KPIs Hold regular discussions between the union and the company FYE 2021 targets FYE 2020 progress details Progress level • Hold nine meetings of the Central Labor Relations Committee annually (LIXIL Corporation, Japan • Maintain cooperation by promoting regular communication between the union and the company. only). • Held nine meetings of the Central Labor Relations Committee over the year. Create a staffing plan that encourages local employment and talent development FYE 2021 targets FYE 2020 progress details Progress level • Achieved 94% fulfillment of the plan (216 people recruited, incl. 1 university graduate, 25 specialist • Achieve 100% fulfillment of our recruitment plan that aims to increase the number of local factory high school graduates, 17 junior college (two-year college)/technical college graduates, 173 high employees (LIXIL manufacturing subsidiaries). school graduates). LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2020 100 Commitment Management & Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society External Evaluation & Action Plan External Evaluation and Action Plan > Action Plan & KPIs 08 EXTERNAL Talent Development Continue Talent Acceleration Program for next-generation leaders and optimize training programs FYE 2021 targets FYE 2020 progress details Progress level EVALUATION • Achieve 1,300 participants in the Talent Acceleration Program (TAP) for next-generation leaders • TAP-1/2/3 participants: 70 & ACTION PLAN (Japan only). • Number of participants to date: 1,265 • Percentage uptake: 100% • Achieve 100% uptake of initial three-year basic education (Japan only). First year follow-up training: 192, second year communication training: 217, third year communication External Evaluation training: 161 & Action Plan External Evaluations & Awards Occupational Health and Safety Action Plan & KPIs Build a common Group-wide occupational health and safety management system FYE 2021 targets FYE 2020 progress details Progress level • Achieved 100% acquisition of the occupational health and safety performance data (based on number of employees). • Achieve 100% coverage of the occupational health and safety management system across the Group. • Conducted regular internal audits of occupational health and safety management frameworks and their operation at each business unit. ENVIRONMENT Environmental Management System Build a common Group-wide environmental management system FYE 2021 targets FYE 2020 progress details Progress level • Achieved 100% acquisition of environmental performance data (offices covered). • Conducted regular internal audits of environmental management frameworks and their operation at • Achieve 100% coverage of the environmental management system across the Group. each business unit. • In process of obtaining certification of the environmental management system (ISO 14001) for all LWT Americas factories. LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2020 101 Commitment Management & Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society External Evaluation & Action Plan External Evaluation and Action Plan > Action Plan & KPIs CO2 08 EXTERNAL CO2 Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation, Water Sustainability, and Circular Economy Improve environmental value our products and services can offer and reduce environmental impacts across the entire process of our business FYE 2021 targets FYE 2020 progress details Progress level EVALUATION • CO2 emissions reduction attributable to Group products and services: expand by 1.36 times v. FYE2016 • CO2 emissions reduction attributable to products and services: expanded by 1.29 times (amount of & ACTION PLAN • Pursue environmentally-conscious designs that consider the entire product lifecycle. • Promote the sales expansion of environment-conscious products and services. CO2 emissions reduced: 65,868 thousand t-CO2) • Benefitted from environment-conscious EMENA faucet business. • Achieved solar-panel installation targets early with LTSP’s Tatetoku Value service. External Evaluation • CO2 emission intensity from places of business: reduced by 14.3% (Total volume down 6.3%) & Action Plan • CO2 emission intensity from places of business across the Group: reduce by 8% v. FYE 2016 • CO2 emission intensity from transportation: reduced by 2.8% • CO2 emission intensity from transportation carried out in Japan by LIXIL as the consigner: reduce by 5% • Achieved targets in three high-water risk bases. • Improve water usage efficiency at high-water risk bases. • Waste recycling ratios: 96.2% in Japan and Europe, 90.4% in Asia, and 26.6% in North America External Evaluations & Awards • Achieve waste recycling ratio from places of business of at least 95% in Japan and Europe, 66% in Asia, • Began procuring 100% renewable energy at LIXIL WING campus and all GROHE factories. and 40% in North America. • Achieved a great improvement in waste recycling at LWT Asia (Rangsit and Rayong in Thailand). Action Plan & KPIs SOCIETY Human Rights Create LIXIL Group Human Rights Policy and promote awareness among all LIXIL Group employees FYE 2021 targets FYE 2020 progress details Progress level • Introduced various means focusing especially on surveys by Human Rights Due Diligence Task Force to facilitate a better understanding and handling of potential human rights risks. • Implement human rights due diligence globally, and define and reduce LIXIL Group business-related • Complemented existing measures by planning a survey of all employees focusing on LIXIL’s key human rights risks for customers, employees, business partners, and other stakeholders. human rights issues and potential future human rights risks. • Conducted compliance education and training directed at all employees. • Conveyed information on human rights on internal social media that all employees can access. LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2020 102 Commitment Management & Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society External Evaluation & Action Plan External Evaluation and Action Plan > Action Plan & KPIs 08 EXTERNAL Create a framework for human rights due diligence FYE 2021 targets FYE 2020 progress details Progress level • Employed the existing concern-raising system. • Respond swiftly and sincerely to any human rights violations and instigate improvements, regularly EVALUATION review human rights due diligence frameworks, and ensure highly transparent disclosure of due • Maintained the Human Rights Due Diligence Task Force’s process decision-making approach and exchanged opinions at least once a year. & ACTION PLAN diligence activities and processes. • Determined seven key human rights issues requiring a focused effort to reduce potential human rights risks. External Evaluation & Action Plan Stakeholder Engagement Help solve sanitation issues External Evaluations & Awards FYE 2021 targets FYE 2020 progress details Progress level Action Plan & KPIs • Shipped 3.8 million units of our SATO Toilet Systems to over 38 countries, reaching 18.6 million people. • Improve the sanitary environments of 100 million people. • Goal to reach 100 million people extended to FYE 2026 (from FYE 2021). Research and develop products that can help solve social issues FYE 2021 targets FYE 2020 progress details Progress level • Conducted five research activities. • Made two external announcements. • Exhibited News from the Toilet, an AI-driven defecation management system for residents in elderly • Conduct 10 or more research activities using digital or other technologies. care facilities, as a reference technology at the International Home Care and Rehabilitation Exhibition • Contribute to society by publicly announcing some of our research results. 2019 and Combined Exhibition of Advanced Technologies (CEATEC) 2019. • Conducted Cool Peace Project, an awareness-raising initiative aimed at spreading knowledge on how to prevent indoor heatstroke (monitoring indoor temperatures in regular houses, including elderly households, and investigating the benefits of Style Shade sun blinds). LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2020 103 Commitment Management & Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society External Evaluation & Action Plan External Evaluation and Action Plan > Action Plan & KPIs 08 EXTERNAL CUSTOMERS & SUPPLY CHAIN Responsible Supply Chain Management Extend our CR procurement process from Japan to the entire Group EVALUATION & ACTION PLAN FYE 2021 targets FYE 2020 progress details Progress level • Coverage ratio • CR survey of Group-wide suppliers 97% in Japan, 90% overseas* External Evaluation Achieve coverage ratio of 90% in Japan, 90% overseas (based on purchased amount). Greatly expanded Japan survey coverage ratio in FYE 2020. & Action Plan Achieve 90% conformity rate.* • Average conformity rate Coverage area: Suppliers to LIXIL Corporation and its subsidiaries 89% in Japan, 87% overseas* Japan: Procurement at domestic operations, overseas: procurement at overseas operations Will continue follow-up activities, and expect to achieve the targets as planned in FYE 2021 * Overseas data undetermined as coverage area undergoing review External Evaluations & Awards * Exclude American Standard Brands Action Plan & KPIs Product Safety and Quality Make continuous improvements to the product quality management system FYE 2021 targets FYE 2020 progress details Progress level • Serious product-related accidents: 7 (single gas stove: 2, side-hinged outward-opening window: 1, gate doors: 1, double-sliding windows: 1, sliding shutters: 1, general-purpose door: 1) • Maintain zero cases of serious product accidents across the Group. • Conducted product-related crisis management meetings to make reports and discuss corrective actions. • Filed information on accidents in the database and reviewed them one by one to determine if any corrective actions were necessary. Carried out product improvements and awareness-raising on safe use as necessary. Monitor customer satisfaction levels and re-evaluate collected data for further improvements FYE 2021 targets FYE 2020 progress details Progress level • Continued to conduct the surveys and expanded the scope to: 1) product quality 2) showrooms • Conduct customer satisfaction surveys on products and services across the Group, and continuously 3) call centers monitor and disclose results. 4) after-sales maintenance 5) sales representatives • Customer satisfaction level: 73.5% LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2020 104 Commitment Management & Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society External Evaluation & Action Plan Scope of Reporting 09 SCOPE OF REPORTING SCOPE OF REPORTING The LIXIL Group is committed to providing prompt and Coverage Independent Practitioner’s Assurance Report transparent disclosure in order to earn the long-term trust of its stakeholders and achieve sustainable growth that benefits This report covers the CR activities of LIXIL Group LIXIL Group Corporation has received the independent society. Corporation, as well as LIXIL Corporation and other operating practitioner’s assurance from Deloitte Tohmatsu Scope of Reporting We advance our Corporate Responsibility (CR) activities subsidiaries. Sustainability Co., Ltd. for FYE 2020 human resource by establishing lasting relationships with our stakeholders Please refer to the Supplementary Publication: Databook performance data and environmental performance data through appropriate disclosure, reporting, and dialogue. The for the target organizations for human resource performance (only those environmental performance data that are details of our CR activities are disclosed on our website. We and environmental performance data. disclosed in the Supplementary Publication: Databook) also provide an update on our CR activities in our Annual marked with a ★ icon. Report (Integrated Report from FYE 2020). For information on our corporate governance policies, DATA Supplementary Publication: Databook (581KB) Please direct queries on this report to: please see the Corporate Governance section of our website. WEB To Link to Our Site or for Other Questions and Comments Reporting Period We updated and published CR-related information for FYE 2020 (from April 1, 2019 to March 31, 2020) on October 30, 2020. We plan to update the report for the next fiscal year in October 2021. LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2020 105 Commitment Management & Material Issues Strategic Pillars Our People Environment Customers & Supply Chain Society External Evaluation & Action Plan Independent Practitioner’s Assurance Report 10 INDEPENDENT INDEPENDENT PRACTITIONER’S ASSURANCE REPORT （TRANSLATION） Independent Practitioner’s Assurance Report PRACTITIONER’S October 27, 2020 Mr. Kinya Seto, ASSURANCE REPORT Director, Representative Executive Officer, Executive Officer and President, and CEO LIXIL Group Corporation Masahiko Sugiyama Independent Practitioner’s Representative Director Assurance Report Deloitte Tohmatsu Sustainability Co., Ltd. 3-2-3, Marunouchi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo We have undertaken a limited assurance engagement of the Human Resource Performance Data indicated with ★ for the year ended March 31, 2020 (the “Human Resource Performance Data”) included in the “LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2020” (the “Report”) of LIXIL Group Corporation (the “Company”). The Company’s Responsibility The Company is responsible for the preparation of the Human Resource Performance Data in accordance with the calculation and reporting standard adopted by the Company (indicated with the Human Resource Performance Data of the Report). Our Independence and Quality Control We have complied with the independence and other ethical requirements of the Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants issued by the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants, which is founded on fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due care, confidentiality and professional behavior. We apply International Standard on Quality Control 1, Quality Control for Firms that Perform Audits and Reviews of Financial Statements, and Other Assurance and Related Services Engagements, and accordingly maintain a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. Our Responsibility Our responsibility is to express a limited assurance conclusion on the Human Resource Performance Data based on the procedures we have performed and the evidence we have obtained. We conducted our limited assurance engagement in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (“ISAE”) 3000, Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information, issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board (“IAASB”) and the Practical Guideline for the Assurance of Sustainability Information, issued by the Japanese Association of Assurance Organizations for Sustainability Information. The procedures we performed were based on our professional judgment and included inquiries, observation of processes performed, inspection of documents, analytical procedures, evaluating the appropriateness of quantification methods and reporting policies, and agreeing or reconciling with underlying records. These procedures also included the following: ・ Performing interviews of responsible persons and inspecting documentary evidence to assess the completeness of the data, data collection methods, source data and relevant assumptions applicable to the sites. The procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement vary in nature and timing from, and are less in extent than for, a reasonable assurance engagement. Consequently, the level of assurance obtained in a limited assurance engagement is substantially lower than the assurance that would have been obtained had we performed a reasonable assurance engagement. Limited Assurance Conclusion Based on the procedures we have performed and the evidence we have obtained, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the Human Resource Performance Data is not prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the calculation and reporting standard adopted by the Company. The above represents a translation, for convenience only, of the original Independent Practitioner’s Assurance report issued in the Japanese language. Member of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited LIXIL Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2020 106 LIXIL Group Corporation 2-1-1 Ojima, Koto-ku, Tokyo 136-8535, Japan www.lixil.com
