SUSTAINABLE DATASPHERE FISCAL YEAR 2019 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP ANNUAL REPORT 002 F Y2019 G LO B A L C I T I Z E N S H I P A N N UA L R E P O R T REPORT CONTENTS Message from the CEO ............... 004 Summary of Performance ............ 105 About This Report........................ 006 United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Content Index ................. 107 About Seagate............................. 009 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Global Citizenship Highlights ........ 013 Content Index ............................. 108 Governance and Ethics ............... 016 Environment, Health, and Product Sustainability .................. 022 Safety Policy ............................... 119 Environmental Sustainability ........ 038 Human Rights Policy ................... 120 Our Employees ........................... 063 Stakeholder Engagement ............ 123 Community Engagement ............. 086 Acronym Index ............................ 125 Supply Chain .............................. 094 Business Continuity ..................... 102 The Fiscal Year (FY) 2019 Global Citizenship Annual Report describes Seagate’s approach to and advancement of sustainable and responsible business practices in all aspects of its products, services, and operations. This report provides highlights, insight, and context for Seagate’s FY2019 performance, and metrics for FY2020 and beyond. Inquiries regarding this report or its contents should be directed to: social.response@seagate.com. I N T R O D U CT I O N 01 REPORT CONTENTS 004 F Y2019 G LO B A L C I T I Z E N S H I P A N N UA L R E P O R T MESSAGE FROM THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER (CEO) The demand for a Sustainable Datasphere acceptance into our everyday lives, we rolled —one that is reliable, fast, secure, and out Seagate’s Breaking Bias program this scalable—is as high as ever, and Seagate past year, with the goal of bringing safety and is committed to serving it; not only in respect to each interaction. advancing the datasphere itself as more Sustainability is an integral part of our business information is captured in our world, but also success. We engage with our stakeholders helping maximize the value of that data while in identifying business imperatives to drive maintaining our commitments to the values improvements in the area of Sustainability. of Integrity, Innovation, and Inclusion. These Each of these value areas, and the programs values, and the continuous engagement within, are a reflection of the dedicated global of our stakeholders, help shape our Global workforce and partners that engage daily to Citizenship priorities and outcomes. make our business sustainable; again, not just Consistently improving our balance of people, in profit, but for our people and planet as well. planet, and sustainable profit all underpin As a signatory of the United Nations Global our value of Integrity. Our commitment to Compact (UNGC) and a founding member Science-Based Targets (SBTs), which were of the Responsible Business Alliance (RBA), approved in FY2019, provide transparency Seagate is committed to not only meeting, but to our stakeholders. exceeding, the utmost standards of ethical In our ongoing drive for discovery, program conduct. I am proud to help lead a company areas like circularity, process chemistry, and that aims to be a responsible global citizen. responsible mineral sourcing and management Seagate will continue to innovate and improve are all pushing for new, more sustainable in the global citizenship landscape; I am ways to create products. Enabling programs pleased to share with you our progress for in these areas will help keep Seagate moving FY2019, and look forward to building on our forward on the path of Innovation, keeping commitment to a sustainable future. sustainable practices in mind. We remain focused on building a diverse, Inclusive workforce; a wide breadth of Thank you, opinions and backgrounds play a large part in our success. In support of building Dave Mosley B AC K TO C O N T E N T S REPORT CONTENTS 005 F Y2019 G LO B A L C I T I Z E N S H I P A N N UA L R E P O R T THE DEMAND FOR A SUSTAINABLE DATASPHERE —ONE THAT IS RELIABLE, FAST, SECURE, AND SCALABLE—IS AS HIGH AS EVER, AND SEAGATE IS COMMITTED TO SERVING IT; NOT ONLY IN ADVANCING THE DATASPHERE ITSELF AS MORE INFORMATION IS CAPTURED IN OUR WORLD, BUT ALSO HELPING MAXIMIZE THE VALUE OF THAT DATA WHILE MAINTAINING OUR COMMITMENTS TO THE VALUES OF INTEGRITY, INNOVATION, AND INCLUSION. DAV E MOS LE Y, CEO REPORT CONTENTS 006 F Y2019 G LO B A L C I T I Z E N S H I P A N N UA L R E P O R T About This Report This report covers activities managed Sustainability Reporting Standards in by Seagate Technology Public Limited applying the principles of materiality, Company (PLC), an Irish public limited stakeholder inclusiveness, sustainability company, from June 30, 2018 through context, and completeness for defining June 28, 2019, our 2019 fiscal year. report content. This report has been References to “Seagate,” “we,” “us,” prepared in accordance with the GRI “our,” and the “Company” within this Standards: Core option. report refer to Seagate Technology, This report is published annually and PLC and its subsidiaries. References our previous Global Citizenship Annual to “$” are to United States (U.S.) dollars. Reports can be downloaded from the There were no significant changes to Seagate website at www.seagate.com, Seagate’s size, structure, ownership, including last year’s FY2018 report, or supply chain, and as such, it has which covers Seagate’s reporting cycle not been necessary to issue any from July 1, 2017 through June 29, restatements of information provided 2018. The Seagate website contains in previous reporting periods. References supplementary information about our to our major locations are defined as company’s history, products, values, locations that contain more than 500 management, and our most recent Seagate employees. financial performance. More information, The Sustainable Datasphere: FY2019 including our net sales and other Global Citizenship Annual Report follows financial disclosures, can be found in the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)’s Seagate’s Annual Report. Inquiries regarding this report or its contents should be directed to: social.response@seagate.com. B AC K TO C O N T E N T S REPORT CONTENTS 0 07 F Y2019 G LO B A L C I T I Z E N S H I P A N N UA L R E P O R T Defining Report Content This report contains disclosures from the to Seagate. The third party who GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards conducted the assessment covered a (the Standards). A list of the indicators wide range of issues to validate which and their locations within this report were of highest importance to Seagate can be found in our GRI Content Index and our stakeholders, and those at the back of this report. In FY2017, which were of lower priority. No aspect Seagate conducted a sustainability was intentionally excluded from the materiality assessment to identify, scope of the assessment. Stakeholder prioritize, and validate the aspects that feedback gathered during the materiality are most significant to our business assessment helped to shape the and our stakeholders. This included content of this report. Seagate’s reviewing industry standards and materiality assessment considered external trends covering environmental, global citizenship impacts both inside social, and governance (ESG) topic and outside the company, such as areas, and speaking with both internal impacts to our customers, employees, and external stakeholders to develop global partners, and supply chain. a comprehensive understanding of These topics make up the content Seagate’s significant impacts and and structure of this report. The how various issues may influence topics that we identified as material the assessments and decisions to our business can be categorized of stakeholders. This assessment into governance and ethics, product considered aspects of our business stewardship, environmental sustainability, activity that resulted in both direct and our employees, supplier engagement, indirect (through business relationships) community engagement, and impacts on issues internal and external business continuity. We review our materiality assessment annually, and after reviewing our business operations in FY2019, there has been no significant change to the business, so the FY2017 materiality assessment is sufficient. As such, there have been no significant changes to our list of material topics and topic boundaries. A new materiality assessment will be underway in FY2020. REPORT CONTENTS 008 F Y2019 G LO B A L C I T I Z E N S H I P A N N UA L R E P O R T Management Approach Seagate deploys a structure of management program in delivering the governance and continuous improvement intended results. These performance through the use of Business Process metrics are shared in this report. Our Management (BPM), which spans both internal audit program ensures that the operational and support aspects the controls are effective in managing of our business. In most cases we the risk and opportunities. Based on have management programs which the performance metrics and audit are detailed in Corporate Standard results, actions are taken to improve the Operating Procedures (CSOP). These programs. Economic, environmental, procedures are periodically reviewed to and social programs are managed by ensure they are current. Many program relevant functional departments, with areas have performance metrics to oversight by senior management who measure the effectiveness of the report directly to the CEO. Materiality Assessment Nondiscrimination HIGH Transparency and Emissions, Effluents, and Reporting Waste Chemicals Energy Responsible Sourcing Management Human Rights in Supply Chain Occupational Health Management Procurement Practices IMPORTANCE TO STAKEHOLDERS and Safety OTHER Conflict OTHER Child Labor Life Cycle Impacts of Minerals OTHER Products Labor/Management OTHER Relations RBA Compliance OTHER OTHER OTHER OTHER OTHER OTHER OTHER OTHER OTHER OTHER LOW REPORT CONTENTS HIGH IMPORTANCE TO BUSINESS SUCCESS 02ABOUT SEAGATE B AC K TO C O N T E N T S 0 10 F Y2019 G LO B A L C I T I Z E N S H I P A N N UA L R E P O R T SEAGATE OVERVIEW Seagate’s goal for our products is to enable the growth of the datasphere, and with that the safe interaction with, and storage and sharing of, data. Seagate is trusted by millions around the world to protect and store everything inclusive of, but not limited to, wedding photos and groundbreaking biological research. Seagate’s start in 1979 was the design for the future, and create drives beginning of over four decades in with larger storage capacity that also the storage industry, marked with consume less energy. This is just one ground-breaking innovation along example of the sustainable datasphere the way. From creating the first 5.25that we aim to create and maintain. inch hard disk drive (HDD) to being Our values of Innovation, Integrity, the first to release both a 10 and and Inclusion all strengthen our 12TB HDD, innovation is at the heart commitment to a sustainable of what we do. datasphere. We are committed to That innovation expands beyond the setting high standards that we and technologies of our data products into other industry peers will adhere to. how we design, source, manufacture, This is why we are proud to be and service our products. Using a signatory of the UNGC and a sustainable practices, we are able to founding member of the RBA. No one organization can create a sustainable future alone, and through our partnerships, Seagate works to bring value to our employees, stakeholders, and customers, all while protecting the planet and our finite resources. Compete like never before with FireCuda 510 SSD, a gaming SSD built for industry-leading speed, superior gaming, sustained abuse, and the lowest latency. A B O U T S E AG AT E 0 11 F Y2019 G LO B A L C I T I Z E N S H I P A N N UA L R E P O R T We are a leading provider of electronic company also serves major data storage technology and solutions. subcomponent manufacturers, Our principal products are hard disk storage device manufacturers, drives, commonly referred to as HDDs, storage solutions manufacturers disk drives, or hard drives. In addition and system integrators, storage to HDDs, we produce a broad range services, and advanced hyperscale of electronic data storage solutions, data centers. Products and services including solid state drives, solid state are offered in the Americas, Asiahybrid drives, Peripheral Component Pacific (APAC), and Europe, the Interconnect Express cards, and Serial Middle East and Africa (EMEA). Advanced Technology Attachment In addition to HDDs, we produce a controllers. Our storage technology broad range of data storage products portfolio also includes storage subsystems, including solid state drives (“SSDs”), high performance computing solutions, solid state hybrid drives (“SSHDs”) and data storage services. All of these and storage subsystems. Our HDD products and services are shipped products are designed for nearline and under the Seagate, LaCie, and Maxtor mission critical applications in enterprise brand names. servers and storage systems; edge HDDs are a dominant force in the data non-compute applications, where storage landscape, and Seagate our products are designed for a wide continues to serve markets including variety of end user devices such as Enterprise Storage, Edge Compute, portable external storage systems, Edge Non-Compute, Consumer surveillance systems, network-attached and Enterprise Data Solutions. The storage (“NAS”), digital video recorders Meet Backup Plus Slim. With sleek colors to choose from and up to 2TB of capacity for a growing digital library, this portable HDD is compatible with USB 3.0/2/0 and both Windows and Mac computers. Topping it off—on-demand and customizable backup options that make file protection practically effortless. A B O U T S E AG AT E 0 12 F Y2019 G LO B A L C I T I Z E N S H I P A N N UA L R E P O R T (“DVRs”) and gaming consoles; and Seagate has a presence in more edge compute applications, where than 20 countries around the world, our products are designed primarily with headquarters in the Republic of for desktop and mobile computing. Ireland, and 7 manufacturing sites in Our SSD product portfolio is mainly China, Malaysia, the United Kingdom comprised of Serial Attached SCSI (Northern Ireland), Singapore, Thailand (“SAS”) and Non-Volatile Memory and the United States. We also have Express (“NVMe”) and is designed for 7 design centers in the United States, applications in enterprise servers and Singapore, the United Kingdom (NI), storage systems. India, and other countries, as well as 34 sales, admin, and customer support As a leading provider of data storage offices across the globe. Seagate has a technology and solutions, we are able total of 55 sites (excluding surplus and to maintain control over the design subleased locations), with some serving and production of our read-write heads multiple functions. and recording media through vertical In FY2019, Seagate reported a net integration. Seagate also controls revenue of $10.4 billion, and shipped 347 sourcing, design, manufacturing, and exabytes (EB) of HDD storage capacity. delivery for all products, enabling continued innovation, compliance Holding our work to the standards of and uniformity, superior solutions and our core values has enabled positive security, and insight into the most change in our operations, and helps sustainable way to build and ship us do what is right in serving all of our our products. stakeholders and the world around us. A B O U T S E AG AT E 03 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP HIGHLIGHTS B AC K TO C O N T E N T S 0 14 F Y2019 G LO B A L C I T I Z E N S H I P A N N UA L R E P O R T Embracing Diversity and Inclusion Diversity and Inclusion are both major selves to work each day. We published factors in our success as a company, a full report on Seagate’s Diversity and and we are committed to creating and Inclusion efforts in FY2019, which can maintaining an environment where all be found here. parties feel safe in bringing their true Stewards of Our Planet Seagate recognizes that companies, waste diversion. We also reduced total like humans, have a significant impact water withdrawn by 4.7 percent in on our environment, resources, and FY2019. Our electricity consumption the planet. It is our responsibility to in FY2019 increased by 0.3 percent conduct our business in an ethical on an absolute basis, due to creating manner, delivering sustainable value higher-capacity drives, which require to our stakeholders and to the world an increased amount of energy to around us. In FY2019, we maintained manufacture. an 87 percent or greater rate of solid G LO B A L C I T I Z E N S H I P H I G H L I G H T S 0 15 F Y2019 G LO B A L C I T I Z E N S H I P A N N UA L R E P O R T Employee Health and Safety Having a global workforce of over to compliance regulations, we also 40,000 colleagues means we are conduct health campaigns at our sites committed to ensuring the health and across the globe. These campaigns and safety of each of our employees. In programs vary from region to region, as FY2019, we hosted 38 health and our benefits programs are managed at safety regulatory visits, focused on a country or site level, in line with local issues inclusive of fire codes, food legislation and policies. safety, radiation, and more. In addition G LO B A L C I T I Z E N S H I P H I G H L I G H T S 04 GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS B AC K TO C O N T E N T S 0 17 F Y2019 G LO B A L C I T I Z E N S H I P A N N UA L R E P O R T GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS OVERVIEW Guided by our value of Integrity, Seagate is dedicated to upholding the highest standards of ethics. As part of our compliance and ethics program, we have instituted a number of policies and processes, and delivered training and other communications that ensure all employees know how to perform to the highest standards. Seagate is governed by its Board of company policies. Seagate’s Business Directors (the “Board”). Additional Conduct Policy is supplemented by information on our governance structure our Code of Ethics for Senior Financial is available publicly in the Governance Officers, both of which are available section of our website. Our Corporate publicly on our website. Governance Guidelines provide a Our Business Conduct Policy helps to framework for Seagate’s Board of ensure a principles-based approach to Directors in exercising their responsibilities our activities. It summarizes Seagate’s toward Seagate stakeholders, and ethical standards and key policies across these guidelines entrust the Board areas such as insider trading, conflict of with the authority to review Seagate’s interest, bribery and corruption, privacy business operations and make decisions and confidentiality, and antitrust and independent of company management. fair dealing. To promote awareness and The guidelines also provide a process for understanding of the policy, we make it shareholders to communicate concerns available in the following eight languages: with the Board. English, Chinese, Korean, Malay, Thai, French, Spanish, and Portuguese. Our Business Conduct Policy serves as Seagate’s guide for legal and ethical As noted in the policy, we require all conduct each day, in every place where Seagate employees, business partners, we do business. It outlines the standards and suppliers to follow all applicable laws we are all expected to adhere to while and regulations, including the U.S. Foreign exemplifying our values and complying Corrupt Practices Act and the United with applicable laws, regulations, and Kingdom (UK) Bribery Act. G OV E R N A N C E A N D E T H I C S 0 18 F Y2019 G LO B A L C I T I Z E N S H I P A N N UA L R E P O R T We continually reevaluate our policies to Our global privacy program has adopted confirm that they reflect and adhere to the principles of the EU General Data prevailing standards, requirements, laws, Protection Regulation (GDPR) and the Fair and regulations at the local, national, and Information Practice Principles (FIPPS) international levels. The Board reviews as the foundation for our comprehensive our compliance and ethics program, and holistic global privacy program. FIPPS including our key policies and processes includes the principles of accountability; related to ethical business conduct, on acting within the law; informing individuals an annual basis to ensure that Seagate of how their data will be used; only using continues to operate within the letter and data for a specific purpose; collecting only spirit of the law. the minimum data necessary, and not keeping the data longer than is necessary Through our RBA membership to fulfill its purpose, and are widely commitment, 100 percent of our accepted concepts for fair information manufacturing sites undergo a risk assessment every two years. In practices and data protection. Through FY2019, there were no significant cross-functional collaboration, we risks of corruption identified through continue to build on this foundation and any risk assessment among our seven to honor the privacy rights that have been manufacturing sites, which together granted to individuals. comprise nearly 86 percent of our To further Seagate’s commitment to global footprint. safeguarding data, we launched an We are committed to protecting all data internal data protection program that within Seagate, including the personal evaluates the data lifecycle—including information of our employees and how data is created, stored, used, customers, and other data that is shared shared, archived, and destroyed— with or received by third parties. We within Seagate. We are implementing continue to comply with the European additional policies, processes, and Union (EU) General Data Protection technologies to sufficiently protect Regulation (GDPR) as we work toward Seagate’s data and our partners’ data compliance with other emerging data from corruption, compromise, and protection and privacy laws worldwide, loss. We aim to strike the right balance including the California Consumer Privacy between the productivity required for Act of 2018 (CCPA) and the Thailand smooth business operations and the Personal Data Protection Act (effective security controls necessary for effective May 27, 2020). data protection. G OV E R N A N C E A N D E T H I C S 0 19 F Y2019 G LO B A L C I T I Z E N S H I P A N N UA L R E P O R T Product security is an important part of security for business, government, and our commitment to Integrity, both for enterprise. In addition, to help protect the product itself and the data stored the data that our customers entrust to on that product. In today’s business our hard drives, we have a feature called environment, data creates value. Data Instant Secure Erase (ISE), designed to is a vital business asset that needs to instantly reset the drive back to factory be protected, which is why security settings and change the encryption key analysts recommend a complete range so that any data remaining on the drive of protective solutions that includes both is cryptographically erased. This ensures software and hardware-based encryption. that all data on the drive is permanently Along with instant access and maximum and instantly unreadable, extending storage performance also comes the the life of the drive and enabling it to be realization that encrypting every bit of your reused. In this way, ISE also serves as a business data is the only viable service product sustainability feature since the level. To provide that level of security to drives can be repurposed in a circular our customers, Seagate Secure offers economy, which extends the useful life of Essential and Certified Data Protection the drive. to help protect the entire lifecycle of data G OV E R N A N C E A N D E T H I C S 020 F Y2019 G LO B A L C I T I Z E N S H I P A N N UA L R E P O R T Ethics Helpline and Reporting Our Ethics Helpline is available to both were terminated or not renewed due to our employees and to those external violations related to corruption, and no to Seagate, with contact information public legal cases regarding corruption. available on the homepage of both our Additional reporting channels are internal and external Seagate websites. available for employees to address Concerns may be reported by phone ethics and other concerns, and or webmail in English, Spanish, French, ongoing training encourages employee Chinese, Korean, Malay, Portuguese, or feedback and participation in local sites, Thai. Throughout FY2019, we continued management communications sessions, to promote our Ethics Helpline so that and employee “all hands” meetings with employees may confidentially and executives. Ethics concerns or advice anonymously report illegal or unethical about ethical and lawful behavior can situations without any fear of retaliation. be directed towards a supervisor or In FY2019, Seagate had no incidents HR representative. These are just a few of corruption, no incidents in which examples of how Seagate encourages employees were dismissed or disciplined employee consultation and supports for corruption, no confirmed incidents the ability of employees to address when contracts with business partners complaints without the fear of retaliation. Public Policy Advocacy Seagate is a diverse global company in-kind, for the purpose of supporting with operations, employees, customers, candidates for political office, political suppliers, and shareholders located parties, or to political action committees. throughout the world. As such, we As a responsible global corporate engage and interact with officials citizen, Seagate may actively engage and government representatives in a in legislative and regulatory processes. number of countries and municipalities, This may include advocacy for certain providing information about Seagate, policies that the company believes our industry, markets, technology, and facilitate productive economic growth other facets of our business. Seagate and are in the best interests of Seagate does not directly or indirectly contribute and its stakeholders. corporate funds, either financial or G OV E R N A N C E A N D E T H I C S 0 21 F Y2019 G LO B A L C I T I Z E N S H I P A N N UA L R E P O R T Seagate’s effort to interact with policy advocacy with the U.S. or other industry peers and stay informed of government entities. Seagate may evolving policies, trends, technology make payments to these organizations, developments, and regulations includes including membership fees and dues, participation in a number of trade however the Company’s payments associations and related organizations. to, participation in, or membership Some of these associations and with these trade associations and organizations are categorized as organizations does not mean that 501(c) organizations under the U.S. tax Seagate endorses or agrees with all code, and some may engage in public of a group’s policy objectives. Below is a list of trade associations and organizations that received membership fees or payments from Seagate for or during FY2019. • Responsible Business Alliance (RBA) • American Chamber of Commerce, Singapore • US-ASEAN Business Council • American Chamber of Commerce, China • United Nations Global Compact • Mastel (Indonesian association for ICT • United for Patent Reform companies) • Green Chemistry Council • Singapore Business Federation • Silicon Valley Leadership Group • China Information Industry Association • TechNet • China Association for Foreign Invested • The Minnesota High Tech Association Enterprises • Longmont, CO Area Economic Council • US-China Business Council in Beijing/ • Longmont, CO Chamber of Commerce Shanghai • Boulder, CO Chamber of Commerce • Jiangsu Provincial Informatization Association • Cupertino, CA Chamber of Commerce • Londonderry Chamber of Commerce • Fremont, CA Chamber of Commerce • Northern Ireland Chamber of Commerce • American Chamber of Commerce • Confederation of British Industry (CBI) • American Chamber of Commerce, Thailand • American Chamber of Commerce, Malaysia Looking Forward: Governance and Ethics Seagate will continue to evaluate and assess our Business Conduct Policy, and related programs and processes, for effectiveness and compliance with new laws and regulations. We plan to continue development and implementation of impactful live and online employee training and G OV E R N A N C E A N D E T H I C S communications to support a culture of ethical behavior and compliance. 05 PRODUCT SUSTAINABILITY B AC K TO C O N T E N T S 023 F Y2019 G LO B A L C I T I Z E N S H I P A N N UA L R E P O R T PRODUCT SUSTAINABILITY OVERVIEW Reducing the impact that our products and packaging have on the environment is extremely important, as each piece of technology we make and ship pulls on different resources from around the world. This is important to us as product our Product Sustainability program, and energy use is a major contributor to our is an effort we are proud to partake in. Scope 3 emissions, while the material The well-being of our planet depends that we use to build our products has on those responsible for any impacts to be mined and processed, creating to constantly consider how they can environmental and social impact. These do better for the world, and the people impacts are identified by our Life Cycle in it. By knowing the impacts of our Assessments (LCAs), an analysis of products, and then working to reduce environmental impacts over a product’s or eliminate those impacts, Seagate life cycle from raw material extraction hopes to be a good global citizen. through end-of-life. Our Product Seagate thus is also better equipped to Sustainability team works closely with support our customers in meeting their both internal and external partners environmental objectives. to assess and reduce our overall In FY2019, Seagate’s Product Compliance environmental impact, and manage Council continued to operate according any trade-offs. Our LCAs include to its charter, supporting aspects of our information on product environmental product sustainability. All of Seagate’s impacts, throughout the life cycle of products meet regulatory requirements the product, covering four specific for health and safety in all jurisdictions impacts in total. where we do business, and we have Seagate’s holistic view of product had zero incidents of non-compliance impacts looks at the environment, our within the reporting period. Additionally, customers, suppliers, and communities Seagate does not have any of its which are affected by our products products or services banned in any and/or operations. Maximizing our markets where we do business. sustainability is an ongoing goal for P R O D U CT S U STA I N A B I L I T Y 024 F Y2019 G LO B A L C I T I Z E N S H I P A N N UA L R E P O R T Product Impacts We work with our suppliers to obtain Seagate conducts LCAs in accordance Full Material Disclosures (FMD) for with the International Organization for every part included in our products. Standardization (ISO) 14040:2006 and This information is used in our Life 14044:2006 to estimate each assessed Cycle Assessments to assess and product’s impact on the environment. improve our product environmental In addition, each LCA is critically impacts, and is maintained in a reviewed by an independent third party. database that is rigorously managed In FY2019, we continued with the use by Seagate’s Sustainability organization, of the Seagate Green Design Tool and is accessible to relevant internal based on FootprinterTM models, and stakeholders as any new substance completed six HDD and two SSD concerns emerge. Click here to learn LCAs using this tool. These assessments more about our management of are available on our website. All other Restricted Substances. LCAs conducted in previous years are still relevant. 40 Change in Impacts per TB-year (2010-2018) 35 30 Impacts per TB-year 25 20 15 10 5 0 2010 2018 Metal Depletion (kg Fe eq):.................... -85% Water Depletion (00m3):........................ -79% Use Phase Energy Use (kWh):............... -74% Climate Change (kgC02e):..................... -78% Human Toxicity (kg1,4-DB eq)................ -84% P R O D U CT S U STA I N A B I L I T Y 025 F Y2019 G LO B A L C I T I Z E N S H I P A N N UA L R E P O R T In accordance with our credibility and Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol transparency efforts, the Seagate Product Life Cycle Accounting and Green Design models have achieved Reporting Standard. LCAs and a limited assurance verification by product impact assessments help us UL Environment based on criteria as focus development efforts to reduce detailed in the International Standards environmental impacts. We prioritize for LCA (ISO 14040 and ISO 14044), conducting product LCAs based on and the World Resources Institute production volume and customer data (WRI) and World Business Council for requirements. Sustainable Development (WBCSD) Each LCA addresses impacts at every stage in the product life cycle, from raw material extraction to end-of-life disposal and recycling. The Seagate Green Design Tool LCAs include four endpoints judged for particular relevance to the electronics industry: 1. Climate Change (kg CO2e)— 3. Metal Depletion (kg Fe eq)— Assessed across the seven GHGs Indicates the amount of mineral specified in the GHG Protocol deposits consumed Product Standard 4. Water Depletion (kg cubic 2. Human Toxicity (kg 1.4-DB meters)—Reflects the amount of eq)—Accounts for environmental water withdrawn in cubic meters persistence, accumulation in the from local freshwater systems human food chain, and human toxicological effects We assess all of our products for ensure compliance with regulatory health and safety, and improvements standards required to place products related to health and safety, through a in our markets, as well as to meet legal representative drive from each family requirements. The progress that we of products, as well as for the overall have made is published on our external product portfolio. We also assess the website. health and safety of our products to P R O D U CT S U STA I N A B I L I T Y 026 F Y2019 G LO B A L C I T I Z E N S H I P A N N UA L R E P O R T Materials Efficiency and Circularity One of Seagate’s sustainability goals The MCI focuses on the restoration of is to make better use of our materials, material flows at product and company and create a circular economy for our levels, and is based on the following products. With projects involving internal four principles: using feedstocks from and external stakeholders, and tools reused or recycled sources, reusing within the company, we are making components or recycling materials important progress in this area. after each use of the product, keeping products in use longer (e.g., by reuse With the Seagate Green Design tool, or remanufacture), and making more we are including a circularity metric intensive use of products (e.g. via on each product LCA. Circularity is service or performance models). MCI a measure of materials efficiency. combines these measures of circularity Material use has traditionally been into a single indicator. linear: virgin materials are taken from nature, used to make and use products, A perfect score is one, or 100 percent and ultimately proceed to disposal. A restorative, while a score of zero circular economy promotes the continuous indicates a product with average use of materials in order to reduce lifespan and functionality, no recycled or waste and minimize our reliance on reused content, and with no prospect of finite virgin resources. being recycled or reused at end of life. Our LCAs, which include a circularity Seagate now measures the circularity score for each product, are publicly of products using the Material Circularity available on the Global Citizenship Indicator (MCI) for those products page of our website for each product assessed via the Seagate Green Design on which Seagate has completed ISO Tool. We do this to benchmark our 14040/14044 LCA studies. products, identify opportunities for improvement, and to move toward greater material efficiency. We also do this to inform our data storage solutions designs and add value to the way we serve our customers and partners. P R O D U CT S U STA I N A B I L I T Y 027 F Y2019 G LO B A L C I T I Z E N S H I P A N N UA L R E P O R T CASE STUDY: DELL In FY2019, Seagate worked with Dell, a Mining and processing rare earth metals key customer, as well as partners Teleplan is known to have environmental and and Shin Etsu to develop a closed loop health related challenges. By reusing rare earth metal recycling project. rare earth metals, we are able to mine less, thus reducing environmental Through Dell’s product take-back damage and lowering health concerns program, we collected 300 kilograms for the communities in which these of scrap HDD magnets from various metals are mined. manufacturers of HDDs. Neodymium Oxide was extracted from these magnets, In FY2020, we are looking to providing the material needed to build operationalize this process as a part new magnets, which was utilized in of our ongoing business, and apply new HDD builds. the learnings from this project into other circularity initiatives. As a result of this, 25,000 Seagate hard drives were produced with recycled materials. These drives were used in the Dell Latitude 5000 series laptop. P R O D U CT S U STA I N A B I L I T Y 028 F Y2019 G LO B A L C I T I Z E N S H I P A N N UA L R E P O R T In FY2019, we completed eight (TB) of storage capacity shipped on LCAs and reported the results using average for our product portfolio. The our updated Product Sustainability metal depletion indicator specifies Report format. In accordance with the amount of mineral deposits that our commitment to credibility, this are consumed to provide the end-use process maintains third-party assurance. material in question. The process is Significant environmental impacts normalized to the extraction of iron (kg come from the use phase of Seagate Fe-Eq). The average metal depletion per products. This means one of the largest TB across Seagate’s product portfolio opportunities to reduce product impacts is 1.40 kg Fe-Eq, and the total CY2018 comes from customers’ understanding impact to metal depletion equates and use of Seagate’s product power to 2.0 million tons of Fe-Eq. In order conservation modes, which allow to be more accurate, in line with our customers to reduce the costs associated methodology, we are reporting in a CY with drive operation while also reducing based time frame for metal depletion. environmental impacts. The advantages of these power conservation modes are Seagate takes the entire product life described in the product manuals. cycle into account when designing our Seagate does not stipulate post-consumer products. Most Seagate products are content when procuring components or highly recyclable, containing aluminum, parts from suppliers; however, it must steel, copper, and other recoverable be acknowledged that there is postmaterials, and many regions where consumer material inherent in today’s Seagate products are sold have raw material supply. Utilizing data from electronic waste recycling programs. our LCAs, we are able to determine the For this reason, our HDDs are prime impact of metal depletion per terabyte targets for salvage and recycling. P R O D U CT S U STA I N A B I L I T Y 029 F Y2019 G LO B A L C I T I Z E N S H I P A N N UA L R E P O R T Because the vast majority of Seagate’s For our retail products and servers, products are sold as components to Seagate helps to manage product larger systems produced by original waste by taking back warrantyequipment manufacturers (OEM) or returned drives. All of these drives are resellers, we have minimal leverage refurbished or recycled. Drives that over how our products are managed are recycled are done so at locations at the end of their useful life. Just that have been third-party audited to as we recycle our own internally ensure our environmental standards generated scrap, we provide information are met. We also provide customers to our customers to enable their own with drive disassembly instructions reclamation efforts and to promote participation in manufacturer take-back to facilitate recycling. In FY2019 we programs. Seagate does not have a were able to repair and redeploy 56 product take-back program since the percent of the hard drives that were vast majority of our products are sold received via warranty returns through as components to larger systems. various channels. P R O D U CT S U STA I N A B I L I T Y 030 F Y2019 G LO B A L C I T I Z E N S H I P A N N UA L R E P O R T CASE STUDY: MAGNET ASSEMBLY ‘VCMA’ CIRCULARITY DEMONSTRATION In FY2019, Seagate participated in HDD industry, as a means of mitigating Phase 2 of the iNEMI Consortium supply chain risk and also of reducing Value Recovery project, focused on environmental impacts of REE mining HDD magnet materials and component and processing. recovery. HDD magnets, or magnet In one of five demonstrations in the assemblies, were targeted due to the project, Seagate partnered with Teleplan importance of Rare Earth Elements International and a Seagate OEM (REE’s) or Rare Earth Metals (RE metals) customer to successfully recover VCMA as constituent material in magnets. RE magnet assemblies from end-of-use metals are critical in many high-tech drives, and use the sub-assemblies in products, with increasing demand. REE recycling is seen as a priority for new drive builds. all tech companies, not just within the The importance of this demonstration included: • Feasibility of VCMA sub-assembly • LCA analysis quantifying reclamation, with ability to build environmental gains for the VCMA into new drives (with same reclaim/reuse process compared specifications and warranty to virgin material use showed as drives built with new VCMA emissions savings representing assemblies) 96 percent of the global warming • Opportunity to identify the process impact of one virgin VCMA set and supply chain innovation (one top and one bottom) necessary to be able to bring • Feasibility of circularity at VCMA circular processes to scale component or sub-assembly level • Cost of reclaim processing at was demonstrated as a preferred scale may be cost neutral or, with path to materials recovery only development, slightly cost-positive, compared to normal component and drive build processes P R O D U CT S U STA I N A B I L I T Y 0 31 F Y2019 G LO B A L C I T I Z E N S H I P A N N UA L R E P O R T Looking Forward: Product Sustainability Further underpinning our commitment to product sustainability, we will continue to create and use LCAs for new and existing products throughout FY2020, driving transparency and accountability within and outside of our organization. Seagate understands and sees the value in responsible resource management, and will work to formalize a circularity program involving rare earth metals throughout FY2020 and beyond, as well as looking for other strategic circularity opportunities. In looking to maximize the value of our products while also minimizing waste at product end of life, we will continue to evaluate options for sourcing material from recycled products in the upcoming year. Finding the appropriate means to introduce recycled content, such as aluminum, into our supply chain, is a priority for FY2020. P R O D U CT S U STA I N A B I L I T Y 032 F Y2019 G LO B A L C I T I Z E N S H I P A N N UA L R E P O R T Restricted Substances Seagate works hard to meet our Seagate strives to comply with all customers’ strictest specifications, and regulatory requirements where we and we are meticulous about cataloging our customers do business. Seagate restricted substances. This is important adheres to global restricted substance as these substances have been legislation, including the European identified to have a negative impact Regulation regarding the Registration, on the environment, especially at Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction the end of product life. Policies and of Chemicals (REACH), and the procedures have been developed and Restriction of Hazardous Substances communicated within the company (RoHS) “Recast” Directive, as amended and down the supply chain to ensure by Directive (EU) 2015/863. We monitor product environmental requirements regulatory, industry, and customer are met. The program is managed by a requirements, and continuously add product environmental function within new chemicals and substances to our the Sustainability organization. We restricted list, eliminating them from currently list more than 2,000 restricted Seagate products wherever possible. substances in our database, and maintain it to evaluate ongoing legal, A few updates of note occurred in industry, and customer requirements FY2019 for REACH and RoHS. REACH for product environmental compliance. added 10 new substances to the We also catalog the Chemical Abstract candidate list, bringing the total number Service number for each chemical of REACH substances to 201 as of July substance present in Seagate 2019. All 201 substances are included components and finished products. in the Seagate Product Stewardship Specification, meaning that Seagate’s In FY2019, we continued to add to our CAS system screens all product Compliance Assurance System (CAS) components and materials for these system based on supplier FMD and substances. Conflict Minerals data, including over 22,000 active Seagate parts and 37,000 Using Seagate’s FMDs and CAS, we supplier components. In FY2019 we are able to determine if and where responded to more than 4,700 customer Substances of Very High Concern requests for product environmental are present in our products, and at compliance information. what concentrations, both at the P R O D U CT S U STA I N A B I L I T Y 033 F Y2019 G LO B A L C I T I Z E N S H I P A N N UA L R E P O R T homogeneous material and article were completed well ahead of the levels. While it is confirmed that the 10 effective date of July 2019, and updated added substances are not present in RoHS Declarations of Compliance any Seagate products or components, were generated and made available to updated REACH Declarations were Seagate customers. generated and made available as To help customers comply with these an assurance to customers that the same requirements at the finished Declarations account for the complete product level, we aim to exceed, rather list of 201 substances. than meet the requirements, giving our RoHS established four additions to customers enough time to manage their the restricted substances in Annex own product compliance. This diligence II to Directive 2011/65/EU (RoHS 2). gives our customers the opportunity Specifically, there are four types of to participate in programs such as phthalates, abbreviated as DEHP, the Electronic Product Environmental BBP, DBP and DIBP. As these updates Assessment Tool (EPEAT). Seagate were effective in July 2019, Seagate products are generally components, spent FY2019 requiring analysis for the for which no EPEAT standards apply. added substances in the component However, our ability to verify RoHS level RoHS Lab analyses provided compliance and identify product by suppliers. Seagate also included composition at both the homogeneous testing for the additional substances material and article levels provides in the Finished Goods (FG) RoHS customers the assurance that the analyses that Seagate provides at incorporation of Seagate components product launch, as well as updating into their final products will support RoHS analysis for the four substances their ability to meet the relevant EPEAT in FG HDD families launched prior to required and optional criteria for their 2018. The updated RoHS lab analyses final products. P R O D U CT S U STA I N A B I L I T Y 034 F Y2019 G LO B A L C I T I Z E N S H I P A N N UA L R E P O R T with an eye towards increasing our transparency and promoting safer chemical substitutions. In collaboration with industry peers in the Clean Electronics Production Network, Seagate developed and piloted the use of a standardized reporting framework for process chemistry to improve visibility on the chemicals used in manufacturing processes throughout the supply chain. Seagate has initiated an enterpriseIn FY2019, we received no significant wide project to better understand the fines or nonmonetary sanctions for chemical footprint of our organization product environmental noncompliance. Looking Forward: Restricted Substances Upholding our value of Integrity, we will continue to manage our product compliance to ensure that all customer and regulatory requirements are fully met throughout FY2020 and beyond. While in the process of migrating to a new service provider for our Business Process Outsourcing activities, we will work to identify and leverage process efficiencies. P R O D U CT S U STA I N A B I L I T Y 035 F Y2019 G LO B A L C I T I Z E N S H I P A N N UA L R E P O R T Responsible Sourcing of Minerals A continual challenge for companies or an adjoining country. If so, any and involved in hardware industries is the all efforts undertaken by the company sourcing of conflict-free minerals. to ensure the sources of these metals Defined as tin, tungsten, tantalum, are documented, identified, and reported and gold (3TG), these minerals are to the U.S. Securities and Exchange commonly mined in the Democratic Commission (SEC). Republic of the Congo (DRC) and In complying with this regulation, and adjoining countries. Some of these working to ensure the minerals in our minerals are illegally sourced and traded supply chain are responsibly sourced, by armed groups who are responsible Seagate participates in the RBA for human rights violations. The DoddResponsible Minerals Initiative (RMI), Frank Act, Section 1502, adopted in which allows us to contribute to industry the United States in 2010, requires solutions while maintaining standard companies to disclose if any 3TG used processes for data collection. Note that in their products originated in the DRC Seagate does not directly source any of P R O D U CT S U STA I N A B I L I T Y 036 F Y2019 G LO B A L C I T I Z E N S H I P A N N UA L R E P O R T the 3TG in our products from smelters/ map the source of all the cobalt in refiners. Our Conflict Minerals Policy our supply chain. This provides a Statement is available on our website. standardized mechanism by which to share cobalt-sourcing data throughout Currently 72 percent of known 3TG the supply chain. smelters and refiners are validated as conflict-free. Seagate continues to seek supplier commitments to source only conflict-free 3TG, and to have their smelters and refiners engage in the validation audit process. If smelters and refiners decline to become conflictfree, we advocate for suppliers to convert to other preferred sources. Seagate’s hardware products contain all four conflict minerals, all of which are required for functionality and Seagate has used the CRT to gather production. Our company purchases cobalt-sourcing information from all of parts, components, materials, and our in-scope direct material suppliers subassemblies that contain these (in-scope = top 99.5 percent of spend metals. Information about the origin on direct material suppliers providing of the 3TG contained in these items cobalt-containing parts). Seagate comes from our direct suppliers, has made available by request to our from both lower-tier suppliers and customers sourcing information for our membership in the RBA and RMI. over 99 percent of cobalt-containing parts from in-scope suppliers. We currently extend our due diligence beyond what is required by law, and Seagate did not conduct an IPSA map the origins of cobalt in our supply audit of our Conflict Minerals program chain, making us one of the first in FY2019. This audit was conducted companies to undertake this endeavor. and passed in FY2017, and will again Since cobalt is also mined in the DRC, be conducted in early CY2020. Although the supply chain is exposed to similar an IPSA was not conducted in FY2019, risks as 3TG. We use the Cobalt we maintained our commitment to the Reporting Template (CRT) from Organization for Economic Cooperation the Responsible Minerals Initiative and Development (OECD) due diligence (released in late December 2018) to framework. P R O D U CT S U STA I N A B I L I T Y 037 F Y2019 G LO B A L C I T I Z E N S H I P A N N UA L R E P O R T Throughout FY2019, we continued to purchases parts containing 3TG from, manage supplier communication and the list of suppliers that amounts for 99.5 data via CAS, following our implementation percent of spend is defined as the inof the system in FY2017. scope suppliers. For the reporting period, there were two smelters identified as For the Conflict Minerals reporting period possibly being part of our supply chain which closed midway through FY2019 which had not demonstrated through the (January 1, 2018 through December Responsible Minerals Assurance Process 31, 2018), Conflict Minerals Reporting (or equivalent audit) to be conflict-free. Templates were collected from 100 Thus for CY2019, Seagate is unable to percent of our in-scope suppliers. Of assert that our entire supply chain is the direct materials suppliers that Seagate conflict-free. Looking Forward: Responsible Sourcing of Minerals Seagate will remain committed and vigilant against human rights violations throughout our supply chain and with associated smelters. As we plan to conduct an IPSA in FY2020, we continue toward our vision of conflict-free certification across our entire product portfolio. Additional information and details are available in our Conflict Minerals Report, filed annually with the U.S. SEC. P R O D U CT S U STA I N A B I L I T Y 06 ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY B AC K TO C O N T E N T S 039 F Y2019 G LO B A L C I T I Z E N S H I P A N N UA L R E P O R T ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY OVERVIEW Seagate understands and acknowledges a part of Seagate’s values, policies, and that climate change is contributed processes, and are tied intrinsically to to by human activity, and will lead to how we do business. To the best of a number of social, economic, and our knowledge, none of our operations environmental consequences for all are located in or adjacent to protected of us if not properly dealt with. As a areas and areas of high biodiversity value company, we are committed to setting outside protected areas. goals and tracking our progress, as well as auditing our systems to We work closely with our suppliers and reduce energy consumption, carbon provide training to key stakeholders to emissions, waste, and water usage educate them on sustainability best throughout our global footprint. All practices, with indicators to gauge efforts in these areas are fully supported performance. These actions comprise by senior management. Our global the majority of our environmental environmental sustainability efforts are sustainability efforts. Management Systems Our environmental management had 26 environmental regulatory visits, system is shaped by ISO standards, and 38 health and safety and fire the RBA Code of Conduct, and UNGC regulatory visits globally in FY2019. These principles. By managing and reducing resulted in one violation notice for environmental impacts through this wastewater discharge exceeding limits in system, Seagate demonstrates our Singapore. Seagate took corrective action, recognized environmental sustainability including controlling and decreasing the leadership in our industry. regeneration waste discharge, diverting At the end of FY2019, all of Seagate’s it to a regeneration waste tank for premanufacturing facilities were certified to neutralization, installing a pump with lower ISO 14001 Environmental Management capacity to lower the flow rate of the System and working towards ISO 45001 neutralization system, and monitoring Occupational Health and Safety, upgraded conductivity online with the option to divert from Occupational Health and Safety any off-specification waste for further Assessment Series (OHSAS) 18001. We treatment. The fine paid totaled $750. E N V I R O N M E N TA L S U STA I N A B I L I T Y 040 F Y2019 G LO B A L C I T I Z E N S H I P A N N UA L R E P O R T Energy and Carbon Emissions Performance The energy usage that Seagate incurs, from various types of equipment and and the process chemicals used, are processes). Each of our manufacturing essential in the manufacturing of our sites is required to achieve annual energy products and in providing our services. saving goals to help reduce the intensity For detailed information on our carbon of GHG emissions in our operations. emissions, please refer to our CDP disclosure. While the energy and process Reducing GHG emissions is the most chemical use does contribute to GHG significant environmental aspect in our emissions, we work to reduce the amount operations, especially as new products of each by identifying energy conservation change production steps and usage opportunities, auditing our management timeframes. As our industry transitions systems, setting targets, and reporting our to increasingly cloud-based data storage progress to our employees, suppliers, and systems, there will be more cloud storage customers, both to create awareness and product offerings. These offerings be transparent. typically require longer test times, and run for a longer time, increasing the GHG Our primary goal is to reduce energy use emissions per EB. and GHG emissions per storage capacity produced. These measurements are This transition undoubtedly will have known as “energy intensity” and “GHG an impact on our energy and carbon emissions intensity,” as they measure performance, and we aim to better impact relative to the amount of economic understand and mitigate any negative activity taking place. Intensity is measured changes. For example, we are in various ways across industry sectors working to find a replacement for the and product types; we measure energy hydrofluorocarbon (HFC) solvent used and carbon emissions intensity per in our manufacturing processes, which exabyte (EB) of storage capacity shipped. is released as a fugitive emission, as Seagate’s largest sources of scope well as any other chemicals that have 1 and 2 GHG emissions continue to high global warming potential. These be purchased electricity and fugitive are the main contributors to our emissions (an unintended release of Scope 1 emissions, and are key in GHG compounds into the atmosphere reducing overall GHG emissions. E N V I R O N M E N TA L S U STA I N A B I L I T Y 0 41 F Y2019 G LO B A L C I T I Z E N S H I P A N N UA L R E P O R T CASE STUDY: SCIENCE BASED TARGETS Seagate recognizes that human activity More than 600 companies worldwide is a major contributor to global warming. have made commitments to setting By setting aggressive, standardized SBTs. Our inclusion as one of those targets, we are holding ourselves to a 600-plus companies underpins necessary commitment. our commitment to combating climate change, and our continued We first committed to and set Science industry leadership. Results will be Based Targets (SBTs) in FY2017 to reduce communicated annually and reviewed GHG Emissions. In FY2019, we finalized every five years to assess changes. and gained approval for our SBTs through the Science Based Targets Initiative Our targets are to: Reduce absolute (SBTi), which is composed of industry Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions non-profits and stakeholders. Our SBTs 20 percent by 2025 and 60 percent align with the latest climate science by 2040 from a 2017 base year; necessary to meet the Paris Agreement. and, reduce absolute Scope 3 GHG We are committed to doing our part to emissions 20 percent by 2025 and 60 limit global warming to well below 2°C percent by 2040 from a 2017 base year. above pre-industrial levels and pursue efforts to limit warming to 1.5°C. P R O D U CT S U STA I N A B I L I T Y 042 F Y2019 G LO B A L C I T I Z E N S H I P A N N UA L R E P O R T Energy Total internal electricity consumption 4,634 MWh per EB of storage capacity increased to 1.572 million megawatt shipped in FY2018. This accounts for hours (MWh), from 1.567 million MWh a 2.3 percent reduction in electricity in FY2018. We shipped 347.4 EB of consumption from FY2018 to FY2019, storage capacity in FY2019, resulting reflective of our ongoing commitment to in a total of 4,526 MWh per EB of responsible energy use. storage capacity shipped, down from Electricity Intensity Over 5 Fiscal Years 2.0 1.5 Million MWh MWh/EB MWh 1.0 MWh/EB .5 0 FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 Internal Energy Consumption Excluding Electricity (MWh) in CY2018 STEAM CONSUMPTION HEATING CONSUMPTION Fuel Consumption: COOLING 68,601..........................92.26% CONSUMPTION Cooling Consumption: 5,747.............................7.73% Heating Consumption: FUEL 11.................................0.01% CONSUMPTION Steam Consumption: 0...................................0.00% E N V I R O N M E N TA L S U STA I N A B I L I T Y 043 F Y2019 G LO B A L C I T I Z E N S H I P A N N UA L R E P O R T Given our higher-capacity drives and space, and our ongoing commitment the move towards more cloud-based to a better process. storage solutions, both of which require an increased amount of energy Seagate also continues to focus efforts to manufacture, the normalizing of on energy conservation throughout our energy consumption per storage our operations. In FY2019, we saved capacity shipped demonstrates our approximately 16,000 MWh of electricity innovation in the energy efficiency through energy conservation and Accumulated Energy Saved (MWh) since FY2014 200 180 160 140 Thousand MWh 120 Accumulated 100 since FY14 80 Energy Saved in current FY 60 40 20 0 FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 FY20 Projected efficiency initiatives, exceeding our reducing our GHG emissions. At our conservation goal of 10,000 MWh design center in Fremont, California, for the year. Energy savings are we generated a total of 1,000 MWh of calculated using the Metered Baseline renewable, solar energy throughout Method (MBM); since FY2014 the site CY2018. Seagate is aligning to the initiated energy conservation projects, ISO standards in implementation an focused mainly on electricity, have energy management system to drive saved a cumulative 170,000 MWh. a common and sustainable energy management program across all Our conservation goal for FY2020 is manufacturing sites. Our manufacturing 14,000 MWh. sites in Wuxi, China, and Londonderry, Renewable, solar energy is an area Northern Ireland, are certified to ISO we are evaluating as we work on 50001 Energy Management System. E N V I R O N M E N TA L S U STA I N A B I L I T Y 044 F Y2019 G LO B A L C I T I Z E N S H I P A N N UA L R E P O R T Solar Energy Generated on Site Over 3 Calendar Years 1,500 1,250 1,000 Fremont Design Center 750 MWh 500 250 0 CY16 CY17 CY18 Grid Electricity Consumption Over 5 Calendar Years 2.0 1.5 Million MWh 1.0 Grid Electricity .5 0 CY14 CY15 CY16 CY17 CY18 E N V I R O N M E N TA L S U STA I N A B I L I T Y 045 F Y2019 G LO B A L C I T I Z E N S H I P A N N UA L R E P O R T Total Energy Consumption within Seagate (MWh) CY2016 CY2017 CY2018 Natural Gas 62,105 59,515 61,977 Propane 3,649 3,971 3,002 Diesel 1,583 2,463 2,523 Jet Kerosene 1,534 1,693 1,089 Hot Water 412 761 11 Chilled Water 2,196 6,198 5,747 Motor Gasoline 9 3 8 Electricity 1,689,965 1,578,291 1,597,121 Onsite Solar 1,238 1,244 1,000 Total energy consumption from 1,761,453 1,652,895 1,671,478 non-renewable sources Total energy consumption 1,238 1,244 1,000 from renewable sources Total energy consumption within the 1,762,691 1,654,139 1,672,478 organization (renewable and non-renewable) E N V I R O N M E N TA L S U STA I N A B I L I T Y 046 F Y2019 G LO B A L C I T I Z E N S H I P A N N UA L R E P O R T Fuel Type Consumed Internal (Gigajoule) in CY2018 MOTOR GASOLINE JET KEROSENE PROPANE Natural Gas: 223,098........ 90.35% DISTILLATE FUEL OIL Propane: 10,807............... 4.38% Distillate Fuel Oil: 9,083..... 3.68% Jet Kerosene: 3,921.......... 1.59% NATURAL GAS Motor Gasoline: 30............ 0.01% E N V I R O N M E N TA L S U STA I N A B I L I T Y 0 47 F Y2019 G LO B A L C I T I Z E N S H I P A N N UA L R E P O R T Carbon Emissions Our carbon emissions data is collected are committed to finding a suitable by Calendar Year (CY), and our baseline replacement. This solvent is a necessary year is CY2017. In CY2018, our Scope part of our manufacturing processes, 1 emissions (GHG emissions generated and has a very high global warming directly at our sites) reduced by 1.2 potential. Our media design teams in percent to 259,307 metric tons of CO2e. Fremont, California work closely with The majority of this decrease comes teams at our manufacturing site in from process improvements across our Singapore to qualify a replacement manufacturing sites. for this solvent, and improve process We are still facing challenges with our efficiency. The hydrofluorocarbon use of a hydrofluorocarbon solvent solvent we currently use contributed in our media manufacturing process, to nearly 89.5 percent of our Scope 1 which results in fugitive emissions, and emissions totals. Breakdown of Direct Emissions (Scope 1) in CY2018 (tCO2e) OTHER N2O CH4 PFCs SF6 HYDROCARBONS NF3 CO2 HFCs HFCs: 234,353..............90.38% PFCs: 440.....................0.17% CO2: 14,466.................5.58% CH4: 344......................0.13% NF3: 5,190....................2.00% N2O: 39........................0.02% Hydrocarbons: 3,691.....1.42% Other: 79......................0.03% SF6: 705.......................0.27% E N V I R O N M E N TA L S U STA I N A B I L I T Y 048 F Y2019 G LO B A L C I T I Z E N S H I P A N N UA L R E P O R T Our Scope 2 location based emissions used the WRI/WBCSD Greenhouse Gas (GHG emissions generated from the Protocol (Scope 1 and 2) for Scopes electricity that we purchase) increased 1 and 2 calculations, and the WRI/ by 0.2 percent, from 887,964 metric WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Protocol tons of CO2e in CY2017 to 890,010 in Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) for our CY2018. Our Scope 2 market based Scope 3 calculations. Our GWP factors emissions in CY2018 equaled 902,266 are based on IPCC Fifth Assessment metric tons of CO2e. Seagate’s primary Report (AR5 – 100 year), and we approach to reduction of Scope 2 scope our reporting for which we have emissions is energy conservation. We operational control. GHG Scope 1 and 2 by Region Over 5 Calendar Years 1,400,000 1,200,000 1,000,000 tC02e 800,000 600,000 400,000 200,000 0 CY14 CY15 CY16 CY17 CY18 Asia Americas EMEA E N V I R O N M E N TA L S U STA I N A B I L I T Y 049 F Y2019 G LO B A L C I T I Z E N S H I P A N N UA L R E P O R T GHG Scope 1 and 2 by Region in CY2018 (tCO2e) EMEA AMERICAS Asia: 991,374.................... 86.26% Americas: 121,497............. 10.57% EMEA: 36,446................... 03.17% ASIA Combining Scope 1 and Scope 2 This was not achieved. Our Scope 1 emissions, Seagate generated 1,149,317 emission reduced by 1.2% in CY2018 metric tons of CO2e in CY2018, a 0.1 compared to CY2017 while our Scope percent reduction from CY2017. We also 2 emissions increased by 0.2%. Overall conducted third-party verification of we reduced our absolute emissions our GHG emissions reporting, which is by 0.6% in CY2018 vs CY2017. If we done every year per ISO 14064-3: compare to our SBT goals, we have Greenhouse gases—Part 3: Specification some ways to go. We believe that with guidance for the validation and measuring emissions normalized verification of greenhouse gas assertions. over EBs shipped is a more accurate representation of the emissions Our CY2018 goal was to reduce our portfolio of our business. total combined Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions by 2 percent from CY2017. E N V I R O N M E N TA L S U STA I N A B I L I T Y 050 F Y2019 G LO B A L C I T I Z E N S H I P A N N UA L R E P O R T GHG Emission Intensity Over 5 Calendar Years 1,400,000 7,000 1,200,000 6,000 1,000,000 5,000 tCO2e/EB tC02e 800,000 4,000 600,000 3,000 400,000 2,000 200,000 1,000 0 0 CY14 CY15 CY16 CY17 CY18 Scope 1 Scope 2 tCO2e/EB We share our factory performance available on the CDP website and our results with our stakeholders annually own external webpage, and we share in both our own report (the GCAR) information with our customers through and through the Carbon Disclosure the RBA environmental module. Project (CDP) investor and supply chain • CDP Response for Carbon Emissions questionnaires. Our responses are • Third-Party Verification. GHG Scope 1 and 2 by Type of Facilities in CY2018 (tCO2e) OFFICES R&D Manufacturing: 1,073,797.......................... 93.45% R&D: 46,099.............................. 4.01% Offices: MANUFACTURING 29,150............................... 2.54% E N V I R O N M E N TA L S U STA I N A B I L I T Y 0 51 F Y2019 G LO B A L C I T I Z E N S H I P A N N UA L R E P O R T GHG Scope 1 and 2 by Type of Facilities Over 5 Calendar Years 1,350,000 1,300,000 1,250,000 Manufacturing tC02e 1,200,000 R&D 1,150,000 Offices 1,100,000 1,050,000 1,000,000 CY14 CY15 CY16 CY17 CY18 Seagate continues to assess climate providers use are running longer change related risks to the business hours, upping their Scope 3 emissions as part of our annual ISO 14001 impact.) Seagate’s continued efforts management system process, and we to reduce the amount of energy used have not identified any risk unique to our by our products is important for this company beyond what would apply to very reason. Learning from our current our industry. More information on risks products and continuously improving and opportunities posed by climate as we create new ones is one way change can be found in our CDP report. that we can decrease those Scope 3 emissions. Our LCA results help to For technology products, Scope 3 inform us of sustainability impacts, emissions are typically much higher such as energy usage, along with than Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions, potential improvements in packaging particularly those from product use and products. The goal is for each (the use profile of the product has generation of products to be more changed, meaning emissions change; energy efficient (EB/watt) when products like the drives that cloud compared with previous generations. E N V I R O N M E N TA L S U STA I N A B I L I T Y 052 F Y2019 G LO B A L C I T I Z E N S H I P A N N UA L R E P O R T GHG Emissions in Calendar Year 2018 (in tCO2e) SCOPE 1 SCOPE 2 Scope 3: 16,790,400......... 93.59% Scope 2: 890,010.............. 4.96% Scope 1: 259,307.............. 1.45% SCOPE 3 Seagate reports on all twelve Scope second year that we had a complete 3 parameters that are relevant to our Scope 1, 2, and 3 GHG footprint reported, operations; our FY2018 GCAR was the including all relevant Scope 3 categories. GHG Emissions Over 5 Calendar Years 20 18 16 tCO2e (millions) 14 12 10 8 6 4 2 0 CY14 CY15 CY16 CY17 CY18 Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 E N V I R O N M E N TA L S U STA I N A B I L I T Y 053 F Y2019 G LO B A L C I T I Z E N S H I P A N N UA L R E P O R T CY2018 GHG TOTAL EMISSIONS PROCUREMENT TRANSPORTATION PRODUCTION TRANSPORTATION DISPOSAL Total Scope 1, 2 and 3 Emissions 17.9 million metric tons CO2e Scope 3 Upstream Scope 2 = 890 Scope 3 Downstream = 1,730 = 15,060 Purchased Electricity = Purchased Use of Sold 887 Goods and Products = Services = 15,000 1,200 Purchased Heating/Cooling = 3 Upstream Transportation End of Life Treatment and Distribution = 90 for Sold Products = 50 Fuel and Energy Related Downstream Activities = 190 Scope 1 = 259 Transportation and Distribution = 8 Capital Goods = 200 Processing of Sold Employee Commuting = 25 Process/ Products = 2.2 Fugitive = Business Travel = 17 246.5 Waste Generated = 5.7 Stationary Combustion = 12.5 Scope 1, 2, and 3 Emissions listed Upstream Leased in thousand metric tons CO2e Assets = 2.5 Mobile Combustion = 0.3 * Total Scope 1, 2, and 3 Emissions E N V I R O N M E N 17.94 TA L S U STA I N A B I L Imetric million TY tons CO2e 054 F Y2019 G LO B A L C I T I Z E N S H I P A N N UA L R E P O R T CY2018 Emissions of Ozone Depleting Substances, and Nitrogen Oxides, Sulfur Oxides and Other Significant Air Emissions In CY2018, there were no ozonedepletion potential (ODP). Based depleting substances (ODS) recognized on available air monitoring results, under the Montreal Protocol used for significant air emissions concentration production. However, there was a total from our manufacturing facilities were of 0.008 metric tons of CFC eq used in 0.25 mg/Nm3 NOx, 0.004 mg/Nm3 test and development. This data was SOx, 262 mg/Nm3 volatile organic based on in-house annual chemical compounds (VOC) and 5.3 mg/Nm3 inventory based on their relative ozone particulate matter (PM). Looking Forward: Energy and Carbon Emissions Seagate will continue to focus on energy conservation throughout FY2020 and beyond, continuously evaluating our processes to identify savings opportunities throughout our global footprint. We will also continue to work towards ISO50001 certification at all manufacturing sites. Seagate will continue to work on reducing our emissions through energy conservation activities, improved management of energy, and process controls. In addition, we will continue to work toward achieving our approved, aggressive SBTi goals. E N V I R O N M E N TA L S U STA I N A B I L I T Y 055 F Y2019 G LO B A L C I T I Z E N S H I P A N N UA L R E P O R T Waste Management At each Seagate site across our global and has to be properly managed to footprint, there are established systems reduce the impact to the environment. that track, manage, and report waste Programs are in place to properly of all types. Our sites identify and categorize these different waste streams implement waste minimization initiatives to ensure proper disposition in with the goal of preventing waste accordance with regulatory requirements from being produced, and recycling and generate the most benefit. or reusing waste whenever possible. The site produces two main types of We commit to zero landfill disposal of waste; solid waste, comprised of wood, hazardous waste unless technically paper, cardboard and plastics which not feasible. If disposal is needed, are non hazardous. The other type of we work with the disposal facility to waste generated is hazardous waste identify the most appropriate method for comprised of organic solvents, sludges, treatment and disposal. Our preference corrosives waste and e-waste. Waste is to recycle waste whenever possible, management is a significant aspect of but if that is not an option, we look at our operations as waste is inevitably chemical, then physical treatment, and generated in the manufacturing process finally incineration. Total Waste Generated Over 5 Fiscal Years 40,000 160 35,000 140 Tons per Exabyte 30,000 120 Tons 25,000 100 20,000 80 15,000 60 10,000 40 5,000 20 0 0 FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 Haz Waste Non Haz Solid Waste tCO2e/EB E N V I R O N M E N TA L S U STA I N A B I L I T Y 056 F Y2019 G LO B A L C I T I Z E N S H I P A N N UA L R E P O R T Every Seagate site is responsible for performance of hazardous waste reporting data on waste to a central treatment vendors, and qualify vendors database, which is accessible by through a third-party audit of set criteria. employees and reviewed by Seagate We had no significant spills in FY2019. Corporate Sustainability to ensure A significant spill is defined as one we are deploying best practices which is reported in the financials as globally. We have established minimum a liability requiring an outside response requirements for the selection and by a party external to Seagate. Solid Waste We measure the performance of FY2019, Seagate met its target of our program by tracking the metrics keeping more than 83 percent of solid listed in the graph that follows, taking (nonhazardous) waste out of landfills, into account recycling and energy with a diversion rate of 85 percent. We recovery. Our annual totals include generated 3 percent less solid waste all waste generated at facilities under in FY2019: 20,983 tons, down from the company’s ownership and control, 21,626 tons in FY2018. not including waste generated as part of new construction projects. During Solid Waste Disposition FY2019 Total 20,983 Tons ENERGY RECOVERY COMPOSTED REUSED INCINERATED Recycled: 17,756............... 84.62% LANDFILL Landfill: 1,904................... 9.07% Incinerated: 691................ 3.29% Reused: 312...................... 1.49% RECYCLED Composted: 176............... 0.84% Energy Recovery: 144....... 0.69% E N V I R O N M E N TA L S U STA I N A B I L I T Y 057 F Y2019 G LO B A L C I T I Z E N S H I P A N N UA L R E P O R T Hazardous Waste 91.9 percent of hazardous waste waste produced per EB shipped, produced in FY2019 was recycled, with from 25 tons in FY2018 to 26.8 tons 2.26 percent going to energy recovery, in FY2019. 5.27 percent being incinerated, 0.52 We utilize CHWMEG third-party audit percent being disposed of through reports to assess Treatment, Storage, treatment processes, and 0.04 percent and Disposal Facilities (TSDF) across sent to landfills. Waste sent for landfill global sites. When CHWMEG audit contained asbestos from building reports are not available, we directly renovation as there we no other contract with third-party firms to suitable treatment method available. conduct audits of TSDFs. In FY2019, Our hazardous waste disposition we conducted or reviewed 8 Hazardous continues to shift away from treatment Waste TSDF audit reports to ensure to recycling, with a larger percentage these facilities meet the standards set of our hazardous waste recycled this by Seagate Corporate Sustainability. A year. Seagate generated 10 percent total of 9,309 tons of hazardous waste more total hazardous waste in FY2019, was transported to in-country TSDFs increasing from 8,457 tons in FY2018 to for treatment in FY2019. No waste 9,309 tons in FY2019. The increase was was imported or exported during the due to the decision to ship more waste year. The volume of waste transported off site for treatment rather than treat it is calculated from hazardous waste in house for business reasons. This also consignment notes that accompany correlates with an increase in hazardous the shipment for treatment. Hazardous Waste Disposition FY2019 Total 9,309 Tons ENERGY RECOVERY LANDFILL INCINERATED Recycled: 8,556................ 91.91% TREATMENT Incinerated: 491................ 5.27% Treatment: 48.................... 0.52% Energy Recovery: 210....... 2.26% RECYCLED Landfill: 4.......................... 0.04% E N V I R O N M E N TA L S U STA I N A B I L I T Y 058 F Y2019 G LO B A L C I T I Z E N S H I P A N N UA L R E P O R T Looking Forward: Waste Management Underpinned by our value of Integrity, we are committed to ensuring that 0 percent of hazardous waste goes to landfills throughout FY2020. Additionally, we will maintain a solid waste diversion rate of 85 percent or greater in FY2020, leveraging site initiatives, as well as the insights and innovation of our dedicated teams, to help achieve these goals. E N V I R O N M E N TA L S U STA I N A B I L I T Y 059 F Y2019 G LO B A L C I T I Z E N S H I P A N N UA L R E P O R T Water Management Water is an extremely important consumption, improve water recycling, natural resource, and requires proper increase awareness among employees, management to preserve and protect and reduce water intensity. Our water the health of our global ecosystems. metrics are reported annually based on Our manufacturing processes use the calendar year, not fiscal year. water from local watersheds which We reduced total water withdrawn by are shared with the local community. 8.5 percent, from 8,875 megaliters The primary use of freshwater in our in CY2017 to 8,282 megaliters in direct operations and our value chain CY2018. This is the total volume of is as coolants and cleaning agents water withdrawn from municipal water at production facilities. Additionally, supplies based on meter reading. In freshwater is important for employee CY2018 we recycled 2,556 megaliters consumption and sanitation. Water of water, up from 2,291 in CY2017, a management was deemed a significant 12 percent increase based on meter aspect due to its direct and indirect use reading. Our progress has been driven because without water, we could not by reducing water use through more clean products during manufacturing efficient processes, and recycling the or provide adequate cooling to facilities water we use. In CY2018, our water and critical equipment. Additionally intensity (ML withdrawals/EB) was 22.59 waste water produced from our liters per EB, down from 31.1 liters per operations is treated and discharged EB in CY2017, a 27 percent decrease. into waterways used for other purposes This is due to an overall reduction in e.g. transportation, irrigation. Thus withdrawal as well as the increased the proper treatment of water in an number of EBs shipped from CY2017 important aspect of our operations from CY2018. The CDP Response to reduce the impact to downstream for Water and Third Party Verification activities. In the last few years, Seagate can be found on our external Global has applied measures to reduce water Citizenship website. E N V I R O N M E N TA L S U STA I N A B I L I T Y 060 F Y2019 G LO B A L C I T I Z E N S H I P A N N UA L R E P O R T Seagate’s primary consumption uses our processes. All our treatment plants of water are for cooling and irrigation, have internal operating control limits both of which we monitor at our set well below the minimum discharge facilities annually. For facilities where standards to act as internal triggers actual data is not available, we estimate to ensure continued compliance. A consumptive use based on available number of our facilities also have ondata from other facilities. Manufacturing line monitoring capabilities which are sites and Seagate’s largest R&D and linked directly to the regulatory authority administrative sites are prioritized for monitoring system. The regulatory monitoring because they are the largest authority which provides us with the contributors to our water use. For permits to operate our treatment plants smaller office-based sites, consumption and set effluent discharge limits do is negligible. take into consideration the receiving bodies of water, for example, at our Treatment and disposal of wastewater Johor, Malaysia plant, we need to from our processes is an important meet the stricter Standard A effluent aspect of our operations. In all discharge standard. Seagate took locations in which we operate there corrective action, including controlling are minimum standards set for the and decreasing the regeneration waste quality of effluent discharge set by discharge, diverting it to a regeneration the local authority which include pH, waste tank for pre-neutralization, Biological Oxygen Demand, Chemical installing a pump with lower capacity to Oxygen Demand, Suspended Solids lower the flow rate of the neutralization and mineral content among others. system, and monitoring conductivity Our treatment plants are built and online with the option to divert any offmaintained to ensure they operate specification waste for further treatment. efficiently in treating the effluents from The fine paid totaled $750. E N V I R O N M E N TA L S U STA I N A B I L I T Y 0 61 F Y2019 G LO B A L C I T I Z E N S H I P A N N UA L R E P O R T CY2018 Water Data AREAS WITH WATER STRESS (RISK AREA ALL AREAS DEFINED BY WRI AQUEDUCT TOOL) Water Withdrawal by Source Surface Water 0 0 Ground Water 0 0 Sea Water 0 0 Produced Water 0 0 Third Party Water 8,282 4,281 Total Withdrawal 8,282 4,281 Water Discharge by Destination Surface Water 471 0 Ground Water 0 0 Sea Water 0 0 Third Party Water 4,949 2,594 Total Discharge 5,420 2,594 Water Discharge by Level of Treatment No Treatment 979 520 Wastewater Treatment 4,441 2,074 Water Recycling by Use Non Production 1,147 126 Production 1,409 1,409 Total Recycling 2,556 1,535 Water Consumption by Use Cooling Tower/Evaporative Loss 1,960 813 Irrigation and Landscaping 1,178 1,178 Drinking Water 0.1 0.1 Other Losses not Accounted for 0.3 0.3 Total Consumption 3,138 1,991 unit of report = Megaliter All water classified as Freshwater (≤ 1,000 mg/L Total Dissolved Solids) E N V I R O N M E N TA L S U STA I N A B I L I T Y 062 F Y2019 G LO B A L C I T I Z E N S H I P A N N UA L R E P O R T Seagate monitors water discharge quality quality is monitored by standard at all facilities annually. Manufacturing effluent parameters at all facilities where sites and Seagate’s largest R&D and wastewater treatment takes place on administrative sites are prioritized for site. Our remaining sites discharge monitoring because they are the largest to municipal sewers as per local contributors to our water discharges. requirements and do not negatively We feel this prioritization of monitoring impact surrounding ecosystems. is appropriate because water discharge Water Withdrawals and Recycling Over 5 Calendar Years 14,000 70 ML Withdrawals/EB 12,000 60 10,000 50 Megaliters 8,000 40 6,000 30 4,000 20 2,000 10 0 0 CY14 CY15 CY16 CY17 CY18 Water Withdrawals Water Recycling ML Withdrawals/EB Looking Forward: Water Management Water is one of our most precious resources, and Seagate remains committed to reducing our use throughout FY2020. To achieve this, we will continue to seek out new and innovative solutions, opportunities, and technologies, including assessing and monitoring our water usage data to determine best practices, approaches, and policies around our water management. E N V I R O N M E N TA L S U STA I N A B I L I T Y 07 OUR EMPLOYEES B AC K TO C O N T E N T S 064 F Y2019 G LO B A L C I T I Z E N S H I P A N N UA L R E P O R T OUR EMPLOYEES OVERVIEW Seagate is the leader in data storage We seek talented candidates who want solutions for a reason: people. Our challenging, empowering, engaging employees are creative, hardworking, careers. To diversify our workforce, passionate, and bring innovation to the we recruit university graduates and workplace. Our global community of candidates from underrepresented groups employees is based in locations around who bring various perspectives and the world with major facilities in Thailand, diverse knowledge to our company. In China, Singapore, Malaysia, the United addition to our external recruiting efforts, Kingdom and the United States. At the we look within our company for new ways end of FY2019 we had slightly more than that current talent can contribute to our 40,000 regular full-time and part-time operations. We support transfers and employees globally, down 6.5 percent promotions so employees can gain further from the prior fiscal year. experience while taking on a new role or area of responsibility. In FY2019, our We continue to focus on attracting external hiring was down from the year and retaining a talented and diverse prior as we looked internally to re-train workforce that encourages our values employees to leverage their talent across of Integrity, Innovation and Inclusion. the organization. O U R E M PLOY E ES 065 F Y2019 G LO B A L C I T I Z E N S H I P A N N UA L R E P O R T FY2019 GLOBAL EMPLOYEES: 40,273 Total Global Employees By Region Americas 12.5% APAC 83.4% EMEA 4.1% Regular 12.2% Temporary .3% Regular 83.2% Temporary .2% Regular 4.1% Temporary .0% Total Employees By Gender Female 58.8% Male 41.2% Regular 58.6% Temporary .2% Regular 40.9% Temporary .3% Full-Time 58.6% Part-Time 0.2% Full-Time 41.1% Part-Time 0.1% * Data compiled on information that is in the HR Management System on the last day of the reporting period. ** Regular employees include full and part-time employees. Temporary employees I R O N Minterns E N Vincludes and E N TA L SU STA I N A Bwith employees I L I Tfixed-term Y contracts. *** Time type is defined by legislation where employees is located. 066 F Y2019 G LO B A L C I T I Z E N S H I P A N N UA L R E P O R T FY2019 Global Employee Hires: 5,705 (overall hire rate 14.3%) HIRES RATE HIRES RATE HIRES RATE BY REGION BY GENDER BY AGE GROUP Americas 8.5% <30 39.1% Females 15.0% APAC 15.4% 30-50 7.0% Males 13.2% EMEA 8.4% >50 2.6% Data reflects regular employee hires captured in our HR Management System during the reporting period. Hire rate is calculated as the number of hires divided by employee headcount. SEAGATE JOINS BUSINESS COALITION IN SUPPORT OF THE U.S. EQUALITY ACT In FY2019 Seagate signed the Business Coalition for the Equality Act, joining over 250 other U.S. companies, including tech leaders Apple, Amazon, Cisco, Dell, Google, HP and IBM, Intel, Microsoft, and Twitter, in support of human rights. The bipartisan act, which aims to provide clear, consistent protections against discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation and gender identity, represents a major opportunity to advance human rights and equality in our nation. As a global citizen, Seagate is responsible for protecting human rights, upholding labor standards and ensuring that our employees are treated respectfully. Led by Inclusion Value Champions Joan Motsinger (Senior Vice President of Business Excellence), Jeff Nygaard (Executive Vice President and Head of Operations, Products, and Technology) and John Cleveland (Senior Vice President, Human Resources, Internal Communications and Community Engagement), the decision to join the Business Coalition for the Equality Act was unanimous among Seagate’s executive team, reflecting our ongoing commitment to human rights and equality, as well as our values of Integrity and Inclusion. O U R E M PLOY E ES 067 F Y2019 G LO B A L C I T I Z E N S H I P A N N UA L R E P O R T FY2019 Voluntary Turnover: 5,331 (Overall turnover rate 13.3%) VOLUNTARY TURNOVER VOLUNTARY TURNOVER VOLUNTARY TURNOVER RATE BY REGION RATE BY GENDER RATE BY AGE GROUP Americas 5.3% <30 32.5% Females 15.3% APAC 14.9% 30-50 8.0% Males 10.4% EMEA 4.0% >50 2.5% Data reflects regular employee voluntary turnover captured in our HR Management System during the reporting period. Turnover rate is calculated as the number of voluntary terminations divided by employee headcount. Retaining our talented workforce remains “Direct Labor Production Workers and a top priority, as we believe that reducing non-operators as all others.” Seagate turnover helps Seagate retain knowledge provides transition services, such as and deliver deeper, longer-term customer pre-retirement planning information and relationships. Even though our voluntary resources, for employees that are leaving turnover was up slightly from the previous the workforce due to retirement. In the year, our overall attrition remains below United States in situations where layoffs industry average. We set an annual or reductions in force are required due voluntary turnover goal for our nonto business conditions, acquisitions or operator employees of 10 percent and divestitures, we provide outplacement in FY2019 we continue to remain under services; and in other countries, we this goal. Seagate defines operators as align with legal mandates. O U R E M PLOY E ES 068 F Y2019 G LO B A L C I T I Z E N S H I P A N N UA L R E P O R T Looking Forward: Our Employees In FY2020, we plan to focus on retention by offering our employees a new way to grow their careers through the launch of an internal program that focuses on career development and internal mobility aligned with opportunities for growth. The program emphasizes learning and development to build one’s skill sets, provides better visibility for employees into new internal jobs and offers improved insights to hiring managers about employees who could contribute to their team’s success. O U R E M PLOY E ES 069 F Y2019 G LO B A L C I T I Z E N S H I P A N N UA L R E P O R T Labor and Human Rights Throughout our global operations, the geographies in which we operate Seagate lives our commitment to our that lack the regulatory protection or value of integrity by respecting and enforcement to effectively manage these promoting labor and human rights. concerns. This entails specific attention We adhere to the United Nations to particularly challenging issues and Guiding Principles on Business and activities, including: Human Rights, the International Labor • Commitment to a respectful Organization core labor principles, workplace: We do not allow or and the Responsible Business Alliance condone any form of harsh or (RBA) Code of Conduct. We incorporate inhumane treatment. Seagate strives these standards into our policies and to create, foster and maintain a procedures. We also prioritize fair work environment that’s free from employment practices, and comply with harassment by proactively working all laws pertaining to nondiscrimination to prevent such behavior. The and equal opportunity. Human Rights company also promptly responds protection including Child Labor is a to, investigates and addresses material aspect of our business due to harassment complaints. BREAKING BIAS As part of our ongoing commitment to the value of inclusion, where all employees feel respected and appreciated for their unique ideas, experiences and backgrounds, Seagate launched the Breaking Bias program to empower leaders, teams and individuals to mitigate bias and make better, more informed decisions. The program, which launched in 2018, includes digital, interactive training modules, halfday, in-person leadership workshops and face-to-face roundtable forums open to all employees. At the end of FY2019, more than 94 percent of all directors and above in the United States and Asia, including CEO direct reports, participated in a halfday Breaking Bias workshop. The program will continue to be deployed across the other regions where Seagate operates. O U R E M PLOY E ES 070 F Y2019 G LO B A L C I T I Z E N S H I P A N N UA L R E P O R T • Open Communication: Our • Freedom of Association: We Open Door policy and philosophy respect our employee’s right to encourages open dialogue between freedom of association in choosing employees and managers. In addition labor organizations to represent to formal and informal complaint or them. We strive to maintain positive grievance procedures, employees or relationships with the unions, works other concerned parties have easy councils and employee associations access to Seagate’s global ethics that represent many of our employees. and compliance hotline to report Worldwide, approximately 15 percent complaints or concerns. of our employees are represented by an employee representative • Prohibition of child labor: Our organization such as a union, works policies oppose child labor, and council or employee association. we do not use child labor in any of Through RBA VAP audits there have our facilities. We have established been no instances of violation of age 18 as a standard minimum age freedom of association found in our for employment at all locations, operations, and our controls keep which complies with or exceeds such cases at a low risk. local legal requirements. Through RBA VAP audits there have been • Conditions of Employment: no cases of child labor found in our Seagate operates with reasonable operations, and our controls keep working hours and rest days to such cases at a low risk. maintain a positive and productive work environment consistent with • Prohibition on forced labor: Our the RBA code of conduct or local policies prohibit, and we do not use legislation, whichever sets the bar any forced, bonded, indentured or higher. Employees decide to accept other compulsory labor. We also employment after being fully prohibit our suppliers from using apprised of the terms, conditions, any forced, bonded, indentured or practices and expectations other compulsory labor. Through of their jobs. Workers are not RBA VAP audits there have been no required to surrender governmentcases of forced labor found in our issued identification, passports operations, and our controls keep or work permits as a condition of such cases at a low risk. employment. O U R E M PLOY E ES 0 71 F Y2019 G LO B A L C I T I Z E N S H I P A N N UA L R E P O R T As a member of the RBA, we fully adopt English, Thai, Malay, and Chinese, and adhere to the human rights framework and is communicated with all new incorporated in the RBA Code, and hires during onboarding, posted on actively pursue conformance throughout notice boards around our facilities, our operations. We continue to conduct and is included in our annual policy annual assessments to identify and acknowledgment program. In the mitigate labor and human rights risks at FY2019 policy acknowledgment our manufacturing facilities in the United program, the Human Rights Policy States, Malaysia, China, Thailand, the was communicated to over 17,000 United Kingdom, and Singapore, which non-operator employees globally (42 collectively represent slightly more than percent of our employees) and more than 99 percent reviewed and 86 percent of our workforce. acknowledged the policy. In addition, Our Internal Human Rights policy outlines all 92 of our Security Personnel who Seagate’s commitment to labor and are Seagate employees received human rights. The policy is published in human rights training in FY2019. Looking Forward: Labor and Human Rights In FY2020 Seagate will focus on upholding our commitment to labor and human rights. We will perform annual Labor and Human Rights Risk assessments and will use these results to identify areas for improvement. Both internal and external RBA labor audits will occur in our manufacturing sites across Asia, the United Kingdom and the United States. We will continue to work closely with the RBA on combating forced labor and human trafficking, and ensuring compliance within our own diverse supply chain. We are looking to roll out human rights training to all security personnel, including contract personnel, when utilized in the coming year. We will also continue increasing our transparency in reporting our global citizenship practices. O U R E M PLOY E ES 072 F Y2019 G LO B A L C I T I Z E N S H I P A N N UA L R E P O R T EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY Seagate believes in Equal Employment Opportunity and recognizes that a talented, diverse workforce provides a competitive advantage. We are committed to providing an environment where all individuals are treated equitably and where people feel their talents and potential are recognized. Our equal opportunity policy prohibits discrimination in all employment practices based on age, race, color, ancestry, ethnic or national origin, physical or mental disability, medical condition, genetic information, marital status, sex (which includes pregnancy or perceived pregnancy, childbirth, breastfeeding, or related medical conditions), gender (male or female), gender identity (our internal sense of our gender) and gender expression (how our behavior, appearance and interests reflect our gender), sexual orientation, perceived or actual religious creed or political opinion, military and veteran status, taking or requesting statutorily protected leave, taking or requesting a reasonable accommodation for a protected basis, or other basis protected by applicable law. O U R E M PLOY E ES 073 F Y2019 G LO B A L C I T I Z E N S H I P A N N UA L R E P O R T EMPLOYEE HEALTH, SAFETY, AND WELLNESS Employee Health and Safety Our employees’ health, safety, and wellness is a top priority for Seagate. Our efforts are the result of more than a decade of collecting health and safety performance indicators, which are used to inform our strategies for reducing risks associated with work-related injuries and illnesses. Health and Safety is a material aspect of our business due to the nature of our business which includes manufacturing. Seagate’s hazard profile is typical of an electronics manufacturer and includes slips, trips and falls, ergonomic injuries among others. Seagate’s current health and safety management systems support continuous improvements across our risk reduction and mitigation efforts. All of our locations and work activities In FY2019, Seagate remained a safe are covered under the health and place to work and continued to perform safety management systems and all well under safety and health industry manufacturing sites have their health averages, as based on the standard and safety management systems calculations and industry averages certified to OHSAS 18001. Our global determined by the Occupational Safety health and safety standards, as well and Health Administration (OSHA). There as our accompanying management were no work-related fatalities in FY2019. systems, frequently go beyond country Our recordable case rate, the number of or industry-level guidelines. We are employees per 100 full-time employees currently migrating to ISO45001. that were involved in a recordable injury Ensuring that our employees understand or illness, was 0.19 for the year; and our they are accountable for their own actions days-away case rate, the number of lost on the job is important. We have wellworkdays per 100 full-time employees, defined responsibilities, requirements, and was 0.11, up from 0.08 in FY2018. training around health and safety, and fully Seagate uses the OSHA definition for integrate that training into our operations. injury types and injury rates. O U R E M PLOY E ES 0 74 F Y2019 G LO B A L C I T I Z E N S H I P A N N UA L R E P O R T Seagate hosted 38 health and safety chemistry, and more. We continue regulatory visits in FY2019, focused on to use e-learning courses as our issues such as safety, radiation, fire codes, main vehicle for delivering training, as and food. Seagate received no notice of employees can learn at their own pace. violation findings in FY2019, and no fines In FY2019, we served more than were levied. 696,465 meals globally per month Continuous improvement of employee (on average), and have a formal food health and safety is a priority, and we safety program at all of our sites. continued to provide comprehensive There were zero foodborne illnesses health and safety training to our employees reported. We also bused employees in FY2019, completing over 66 thousand over 5,361,066 million miles, with health and safety e-learning courses just 2.8 vehicle incidents per one throughout the fiscal year. These training million miles traveled. All incidents sessions cover topics like workplace safety, were investigated and actions taken ergonomics, working at heights, process to prevent reoccurrence. Employee Wellness and Benefits As a company, we are committed to creating a culture of wellness and encouraging a healthy and productive workforce. For Seagate, wellness includes many different dimensions of physical and emotional health, and financial acumen. There is a clear advantage to having a healthy, focused workforce, both at home and in the office. Seagate’s benefits are benchmarked to We offer regular employees at our local market practices, industry norms, major locations comprehensive benefits and cultural requirements, and reflect our coverage, which reflects our commitment standards as a competitive, multinational to our people. This includes health care, organization. Although these programs wellness programs, parental leave, paid take different forms geographically, time off, retirement savings opportunities, Seagate’s plans offer value and flexibility life insurance, disability coverage, and throughout, in support of our employees equity ownership opportunities. and, in some cases, their dependents. O U R E M PLOY E ES 0 75 F Y2019 G LO B A L C I T I Z E N S H I P A N N UA L R E P O R T Our goal is to provide our employees with employees as they work on achieving the tools and resources that enable them their health and wellness goals. Because to improve their health and the quality of our benefits programs are managed at their lives. Seagate strives to cultivate an a country or site level, in line with local environment of physical, emotional, social legislation and employment policies, the and financial well-being. Our Healthy Healthy Journeys program varies from Journeys wellness program seeks to location to location. educate, encourage, and support our In the United States We promoted our Healthy Journeys diabetes management and nutrition. program by providing on-site biometric We also offered webinars on topics screenings, health risk assessments, such as mindfulness, long-term care, personalized health coaching, siteand living with cancer. We offer our level activities, U.S.-wide wellness employees access to dozens of varied challenges and numerous on-demand fitness videos, which can be accessed educational modules on topics such as anywhere, anytime. stress management, smoking cessation, O U R E M PLOY E ES 0 76 F Y2019 G LO B A L C I T I Z E N S H I P A N N UA L R E P O R T In EMEA (Europe, Middle East, and Africa) We continued to provide wellness 1-on-1 financial counseling was offered in offerings, including a weight-loss event the United Kingdom to assist employees and a walking challenge. Additionally, with evaluating their retirement readiness. In APAC (Asia-Pacific) Our goal is to offer our employees a diet to caregiving with the objective one-stop portal for their health and to provide a structured and holistic wellness needs by FY2020, starting approach to wellness. This year, India with Singapore in FY2018, China in and Malaysia participated in a crossFY2019 and the rest of the region country corporate challenge program, by FY2020. The portal gives them and Singapore launched telemedicine access to educational materials, and introduced a weight-loss program health screening results, and for a select group of employees. health risk assessments. Its mobile Malaysia began offering optical plans application makes it easily accessible to employees. More than 8,000 to employees with limited access to employees in our major locations computers. Throughout the region, our throughout Asia participated in the programs include on-site and off-site Re-Think your Drink campaign to health screening, financial wellness/ educate employees about the harms retirement planning education, and of sugar-sweetened beverages. In the overall physical and social activities. area of mental wellness, workplace We expanded the Healthy Journeys resilience training, where applicable, framework with 16 sub-pillars from is offered to supervisors and managers. Looking Forward: Employee Health, Safety, and Wellness Globally we will continue our Healthy Journeys program, offering opportunities throughout FY2020 and providing encouragement and rewards to employees for taking steps toward better health and wellness—physical, mental, and financial. O U R E M PLOY E ES 077 F Y2019 G LO B A L C I T I Z E N S H I P A N N UA L R E P O R T DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION At Seagate, empowering innovation means valuing and embracing diverse perspectives and ideas. As a global company with customers around the world, it is beneficial for our business to foster a workforce that reflects the diversity of the markets we serve, and embraces different backgrounds, viewpoints, skills and talents. With one of our corporate values information about diversity within the being Inclusion, we are committed to workforce and reports our progress diversity and inclusion, recognizing that to our Board of Directors. Additionally, our company is at its strongest when we published our first Diversity and we draw upon diverse perspectives Inclusion Annual Report to give an and ideas. To ensure our diversity and overview of our program and highlights inclusion initiatives remain a focus, from FY2019. our senior leadership team reviews Employee Resource Groups Contributing to our inclusion efforts are our opportunities. Seagate ERGs currently Employee Resource Groups (ERGs). These represent seven constituencies, including groups are open to all employees and play interfaith/religion, LGBTQ+ (lesbian, gay, a vital role in creating an inclusive culture, bisexual, transgender, and queer), women, where employees feel safe, respected and veterans. At the end of FY2019, nearly and valued. These groups are important 1,000 employees actively participated in contributors in attracting, connecting, at least one ERG Globally. To learn more motivating and retaining talent. Through about Diversity and inclusion at Seagate membership in our ERGs, our associates visit https://www.seagate.com/jobs/ receive coaching, mentoring, professional diversity-and-inclusion/. development, training and networking O U R E M PLOY E ES 078 F Y2019 G LO B A L C I T I Z E N S H I P A N N UA L R E P O R T Diversity in Recruiting Diversity and inclusion are also core employment barriers for individuals of components of our talent acquisition all abilities. These commitments were strategy. Ensuring that our talent pipeline recognized in FY2019 and our site in Wuxi, consists of diverse candidates is essential. China was granted an award for their We continue to build relationships with contribution in disability hiring and fostering diversity professional associations and an inclusive working environment. community groups. We have expanded Seagate invests in the future by strategically our social media presence and use sites recruiting on campuses for graduate such as Facebook, Instagram, Linkedin, hires and interns. We focus on hiring We-Chat, Glassdoor and Fairygodboss technical and non-technical graduates from to reach a diverse pool of candidates. We universities at our sites around the world, also work closely with organizations such and in FY2019 we hired 274 graduates. as America’s Job Bank to amplify our We regularly partner with local minority employment messaging and opportunities organizations and in FY2019, we attended with veterans and other diverse candidates. the Society of Women Engineers national We also believe in breaking down conference in the United States. Members of Seagate’s Military and Veterans Employee Resource Group gather outside of the Normandale, MN site in honor of Memorial Day 2019. Seagate values the unique experience military professionals bring to the workplace and encourages veterans who are transitioning from active duty to a civilian career, reserve members, and military spouses to consider a range of career paths at Seagate. O U R E M PLOY E ES 079 F Y2019 G LO B A L C I T I Z E N S H I P A N N UA L R E P O R T Our internship program offers interns an percent of interns said they would return opportunity to gain hands-on experience to work at Seagate, if offered and 94 within an innovative and global company. percent said they would refer a friend to During their time at Seagate, student Seagate. Not only are these interns making interns gain valuable industry experience an impact within the company, they are and contribute to many departments at also making a big impact on their local the company. In FY2019, Seagate hired community. Each year the summer intern 285 interns at our facilities globally. These groups will select a way to give back to interns gain exposure to technology the community and they come together through project-based work and at the as a team to volunteer their time. These conclusion of their projects, they prepare experiences contribute to a robust program and present a summary of their internship that fosters technical, professional, and for their group leadership and other social development. relevant employees. When surveyed, 88 O U R E M PLOY E ES 080 F Y2019 G LO B A L C I T I Z E N S H I P A N N UA L R E P O R T GLOBAL EMPLOYEES By Gender By Age Group Minority/ Nonminority* Job Category Minority Nonminority Female Male <30 30-50 >50 (US Only) (US Only) 20.3% 79.7% 0.0% 35.9% 64.1% 19.1% 68.1% Executive 17.6% 82.4% 0.0% 44.9% 55.1% 27.5% 69.1% Director 29.5% 70.5% 0.5% 72.7% 26.8% 28.6% 67.9% Manager 37.5% 62.5% 4.8% 74.4% 20.8% 17.1% 82.9% Supervisor 31.1% 68.9% 16.6% 62.2% 21.1% 35.3% 61.5% Professional 16.8% 83.2% 19.4% 66.5% 14.1% 50.1% 48.0% Support 81.8% 18.2% 31.1% 63.6% 5.3% 79.0% 16.3% Operator 58.8% 41.2% 24.5% 63.9% 11.6% 40.2% 56.5% Total E N V I R O N M E N TA L S U STA I N A B I L I T Y * Not all categories will add up to 100% because some employees chose not to disclose ethnicity Data is compiled based on information that is in the HR Management System on the last day of the reporting period. 0 81 F Y2019 G LO B A L C I T I Z E N S H I P A N N UA L R E P O R T INTERNATIONAL WOMEN’S DAY Around the world, a number of Seagate sites held events and activities to celebrate International Women’s Day. These events ranged from panel discussions with female leaders to social events and sending representatives to attend a women in technology conference. Looking Forward: Diversity and Inclusion We are proud of the progress we have made in support of diversity and inclusion, and recognize that there is much more to be done. Throughout FY2020 and beyond, we will continue to strengthen our enablement of ERGs globally, leveraging the tremendous value of our diverse workforce to cultivate a workplace environment of inclusion. In addition, we will continue to support our value of Inclusion through outreach, community engagement, sustained unconscious bias education, and strengthened collaboration with the RBA and other strategic partners. O U R E M PLOY E ES 082 F Y2019 G LO B A L C I T I Z E N S H I P A N N UA L R E P O R T EMPLOYEE PERFORMANCE, LEARNING, AND ENGAGEMENT Seagate fosters a performance culture by creating an environment that emphasizes rich conversations and coaching, underpinned by our performance management process. In conversations with their managers and guided by our online Virtual Coach resources, employees develop goals. Throughout the year, managers and employees are encouraged to engage in ongoing dialogue and coaching to assess progress to performance. This model helps managers and employees identify strengths, improve outcomes, and close performance gaps. Performance Management Our operator employees work directly FY2019, our goal was to have 95 percent with their supervisors to receive ongoing of our non-operator employees participate feedback and coaching throughout in the performance management process. the year. Our non-operator employees We exceeded this goal with 99 percent of develop two to three clear, meaningful our non-operator employees completing goals and one stretch goal to drive the goal setting, mid-year, and year-end innovation, all aligned to our overall review processes in our online system company strategy. Progress against and 99 percent receiving a year-end goal goals, and demonstrated behaviors, is review with their manager. assessed twice during the fiscal year. In O U R E M PLOY E ES 083 F Y2019 G LO B A L C I T I Z E N S H I P A N N UA L R E P O R T Learning We continue to encourage employees face-to-face training, e-learning through to broaden their knowledge, skills and Seagate’s online learning portal, through abilities, and develop learning plans as LinkedIn Learning, and more. This myriad part of their annual goal setting process. of offerings provides employees many In FY2019, 97 percent of our non-operator options for training and can reach various employees created learning plans for the employee types. In FY2019 more than year. There are several ways employees 245,000 hours of training were delivered can engage in learning activity at Seagate: to non-operator employees. Training by Program Average training hours by gender GENDER AVERAGE HOURS Female 12.1 hours *Non-operators only, combination of LinkedIn Male 12.4 hours Learning and Seagate Learning Platform Just as we look to build a pipeline of The process has three main goals: to talent externally, we use our Organization identify the talent needed to support Talent Review process to ensure that current and future business goals, use we have a robust pipeline of talent to a consistent framework and process fill the company’s most critical roles as to accurately assess talent, and our business grows. This program is differentiate investment in talent by a regular cycle of evaluating Seagate’s focusing resources on the most likely to talent consistently and systematically. make great contributions. We provide The process takes into consideration managers with a comprehensive toolkit an employee’s performance over to help them engage employees and the last three years, as well as their provide them with development actions potential to advance in the company. as part of their overall learning paths. O U R E M PLOY E ES 084 F Y2019 G LO B A L C I T I Z E N S H I P A N N UA L R E P O R T EMPLOYEE TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT We offer a wide range of opportunities for our employees to grow and develop. These opportunities may include: • Seagate E-Learning and Classroom • Internal Mobility Opportunities Learning Opportunities • International Assignments • LinkedIn Learning Self Study Courses and Programs • Seagate Ambassador Program • Strategic Internal Programs • On-the-Job Training (such as Breaking Bias, Citizen Data Scientist, Firmware Engineering) • Seminar and Conference Opportunities • Tuition Reimbursement for Outside • Mentoring and Coaching Degree Programs O U R E M PLOY E ES 085 F Y2019 G LO B A L C I T I Z E N S H I P A N N UA L R E P O R T Engagement Our employees are our greatest could use their mobile devices to scan a resource, and we value their feedback QR code to easily complete the survey. and perspective. For more than three Overall, more than 39,000 employees years, we have conducted our employee were invited to complete the survey and Micro Survey biannually to measure our we received 95 percent participation. employee’s perceptions of their jobs, And, just as in years past, all responses the company, and the extent to which are anonymous so employees can freely they feel supported. Understanding this respond and share their feedback. information allows the company to have Once the survey concludes and results insight into our employee’s perspectives, are analyzed, they are then shared which are used to address potential with leaders, and managers have improvement opportunities. In previous conversations with their teams to develop years, our Micro Survey was sent to targeted action plans. Overall, we continue non-operator employees, and in FY2019, to see improvements in our results, most the survey was opened up to operator significantly in the areas of engagement employees as well. These employees and belonging. Looking Forward: Employee Performance, Learning and Engagement In FY2020 we will continue to focus on employee engagement and opportunities to grow our talent. We will continue to conduct our Micro Surveys, with a focus on encouraging conversations between managers and employees. We plan to roll out a Management Essentials program that will be focused on people managers’ key areas of responsibilities to help them hire, grow, reward and engage their employees. We will also expand our Organization Talent Review (OTR) and succession process to look deeper into the organization for talent. All managers will play a role in assessing, discussing and developing talent across Seagate to ensure business continuity and performance. O U R E M PLOY E ES 08 COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT B AC K TO C O N T E N T S 087 F Y2019 G LO B A L C I T I Z E N S H I P A N N UA L R E P O R T COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT OVERVIEW Seagate’s community engagement program puts our corporate values into action in support of education and well-being. In FY2019, Seagate offered community engagement opportunities at its major locations (500 or more employees), comprising 96 percent of our workforce. Our stakeholders include employees, local community members, nonprofit partners, civic and academic institutions, and governments. Program Highlights Our goal was for 50 percent of our Northern Ireland, aligning with that engagements to be in Science, location’s 25th anniversary. Additionally, Technology, Engineering and Math an estimated 58,000 more individuals (STEM) education. We ended FY2019 were exposed to Seagate’s brand at 40 percent, reflecting an increased indirectly through event sponsorship number of local Health and Human logotypes and collateral. Services engagements at a number • In Johor, Malaysia, Seagate of our sites. organized a visit to Hospital Sultan Seagate volunteers logged approximately Ismail’s Pediatric Palliative Care 20,000 community engagement hours. Center. Seagate’s volunteers got We reached more than 53,000 young everyone moving by teaching people with a range of direct learning some fun dance steps to the experiences, from hands-on workshops children, and a colorful clown also to educational exhibitions. This level of brought a healthy dose of magic reach was driven by several large-scale tricks and balloon animals. The engagements occurring in FY2019 in day concluded with cake and party the U.S. and Thailand, and an increased packs for the kids. community focus in Springtown, C O M M U N I T Y E N G AG E M E N T 088 F Y2019 G LO B A L C I T I Z E N S H I P A N N UA L R E P O R T Teaching Technology with Technology In FY2019, Seagate used virtual reality as a tool to extend Seagate’s data and technology messaging. A “virtual cleanroom” tour and a view inside a hard drive were used in STEM and community events in Minnesota and Springtown with plans to scale to FY2020 events in Thailand and China. • In Longmont, Colorado, a team of • In Springtown, Northern Ireland, high school students began work efforts focused on extending access to transform a golf cart into an to the annual Seagate Real World autonomous vehicle to help disabled Science Fair, which reaches more students move from their seats to the than 200 students, to a specialstage for graduation in June 2020. needs audience through tailored The project stems from a Seagateworkshops. This included a new sponsored multi-semester series of sensory workshop developed in local high school engineering, courses partnership with the Local Authority, (software, electrical, and mechanical). sharing the story of data through access to historic collection objects • In Wuxi, China, employees and images. The facility also hosted volunteered to help the nearby an insight day for this audience with DongFeng community grow and a focus on skills and resources for harvest vegetables and distribute employment. them to 200 disabled and senior residents. The food was grown in a 200-square-meter garden that Seagate employees helped establish the prior year. C O M M U N I T Y E N G AG E M E N T 089 F Y2019 G LO B A L C I T I Z E N S H I P A N N UA L R E P O R T Digital Empowerment Data is in our DNA. We use our expertise to help maximize data’s potential to transform the human experience, and in our communities, this takes the form of programs to trigger interest and unlock potential among students of all ages. In Thailand, Seagate was a major sponsor of the ICT (Information and Communication Technology) “Youth and DigiEng Teacher Challenge.” 2,400 students competed in teams, and teachers individually for awards, by creating digital content interpreting the Seagate/IDC “Data Age 2025” report. into a three-day camp, where teams Two hundred finalist students made it learned more about Seagate and other sponsoring companies, as well as other techniques they could apply to their content including PowerPoint, short films, mobile apps and more. Seagate Springtown hosted a series of Educational Insight Days offering themed workshops on topics ranging from Women in Engineering, Environment, STEM and Smart City. These insight days reached over 340 students and offered students opportunities to develop skills and greater knowledge. C O M M U N I T Y E N G AG E M E N T 090 F Y2019 G LO B A L C I T I Z E N S H I P A N N UA L R E P O R T Robotics, Process and Product Excellence Seagate delivers precision-engineered gaming, a green screen photo zone, and data solutions, using tens of thousands a maker space (DIY toys). More than of robotic systems to produce complex, 20,000 children and families enjoyed the finely tuned products in volume. Our three-day event. industry-leading expertise in product and process design allows us to integrate billions of components into millions of hard drives annually. We’re proud of our capabilities, and we share them with students of all ages within our communities. For the second year running, Seagate celebrated Thailand Children’s Day 2019 with an engaging experience—in this case, a Space Discovery event. We partnered with the National Science Museum to deliver hands-on exhibits, science games including VR Xbox C O M M U N I T Y E N G AG E M E N T 0 91 F Y2019 G LO B A L C I T I Z E N S H I P A N N UA L R E P O R T EXTENDING ACCESS TO HARD-TO-REACH AUDIENCES Supplementing Seagate’s efforts to reach underserved communities, additional work began in FY2019 to bring a technology experience to even harder-to-reach stakeholders. The Seagate team in Pune, India, engaged with the National Association for the Welfare of the Physically Challenged (NAWPC), whose mission is to leverage technology to help build the independence of the physically challenged. The team donated funds to upgrade NAWPC’s computer training lab that serves 50 visually challenged students. Aiming to expand STEM activities in Throughout the season, Seagate’s efforts Minnesota, Seagate introduced robotics touched nearly 6,200 students and programs into its mix of community countless parents and coaches. engagement opportunities in CY2015. In Colorado, Seagate supported several Since that time, support has grown robotics programs for about 90 middlesubstantially in terms of program scope, and high-school students who live in the financial support, employee involvement, nearby Casa de la Esperanza migrant and number of students impacted. family housing project. At the high-school In FY2019, robotics support included level, three Seagate engineers served as sponsoring a competition featuring three mentors for Casa’s FIRST Robotics team, classes of LEGO robotics teams—First donating about 1,000 hours of volunteer LEGO League, First Tech Challenge and time during the year. First Robotics Competition. Seagate also invested nearly 300 volunteer hours and More than 60 Seagate volunteers in funded grants for six teams. Three of the Silicon Valley, led by Seagate’s CIO Ravi teams won honors at the international Naik, supported the Tech Challenge, FIRST Championship in Detroit, an annual competition reaching more Michigan. Seagate also partnered with a than 2,400 students from grades 4-12. Minneapolis school to create a practice Small teams of students, who had spent field for robotics teams’ use, serving months building small model hovercraft, 43 teams and more than 860 students. tested the devices on a challenging C O M M U N I T Y E N G AG E M E N T 092 F Y2019 G LO B A L C I T I Z E N S H I P A N N UA L R E P O R T course. About one-half of the event’s learning. The students experienced participants were girls, and more than the basics of drone programming and one-third were from low-income schools. piloting through an interactive workshop Seagate sponsored the “Best Device led by volunteers from Seagate’s Performance” category for the top three Woodlands and Shugart sites. Students placing high school teams. also learned how drones are used by photographers and videographers, and Seagate Singapore employees hosted how Seagate storage products like the young students from Life Community LaCie DJI Copilot help creative pros Services Society for an afternoon of boost their efficiency. C O M M U N I T Y E N G AG E M E N T 093 F Y2019 G LO B A L C I T I Z E N S H I P A N N UA L R E P O R T Looking Forward: Community Engagement In FY2020 and beyond, we will continue to focus on volunteer opportunities as a way to encourage employee engagement and foster positive awareness of Seagate in our communities. We will also continue to increase educational outreach and programs that focus on how our technologies, products, and the larger datasphere can benefit the learning of others for our future world. We also aim to further reach out to those who contend with greater challenges, disadvantages, or disabilities. Our planned focus is on technology awareness/access, or enriching and fun experiences that are technologybased when possible, along with engagements that foster well-being. C O M M U N I T Y E N G AG E M E N T 09 SUPPLY CHAIN B AC K TO C O N T E N T S 095 F Y2019 G LO B A L C I T I Z E N S H I P A N N UA L R E P O R T SUPPLY CHAIN OVERVIEW As a global company with diverse operations, our success is dependent on our ability to be agile and act swiftly in meeting customer and market demands. This strategic position is not possible without the Seagate employees and our community of partners that comprise our global supply chain. Seagate's supply chain program ensures our suppliers. Our expectation is that that people are treated fairly and 100 percent of suppliers will comply resources are managed responsibly. with this code of conduct. We do this through education, strategic Multiple trainings are conducted, either management, and a commitment directly with suppliers or by leveraging to transparency with our thousands tools provided to us by the RBA. Using of suppliers, consultants, and the Self-Assessment Questionnaire (SAQ) manufacturers around the world. and Validated Audit Program (VAP) as Seagate has two categories of suppliers: primary risk assessment tools, we are direct and indirect. Direct suppliers are able to determine if any non conformance those that provide components and to the Code occurs, and if so, obtain parts of our products, while indirect root cause and corrective action plans. suppliers provide products and services The RBA Closure Audit is our preferred that support our operations. To align with option when verifying successful the RBA Code of Conduct, our Supply closure of audit findings, and our Chain and Global Citizenship programs requirements are documented in our have four aspects spanning Code, CSOP. Supplier performance in audits Capacity Building, Risk Assessment, and and closure findings are scored in the Remedy. The RBA Code of Conduct Quarterly Supplier Scorecard for the also serves as the code of conduct for affected supplier(s). S U PPLY C H A I N 096 F Y2019 G LO B A L C I T I Z E N S H I P A N N UA L R E P O R T Supplier Engagement and Collaboration Proactive engagement with suppliers helps to ensure our goals and standards are aligned, and Seagate regularly meets with suppliers to share expectations and evaluate our level of engagement. For service providers, such as canteen increase awareness of the issue, using providers and janitorial services, we the RBA eLearning on Forced Labor/ require adherence to Seagate’s SOPs. Human Trafficking. We also provided This ensures that all on-site service training for Seagate suppliers in high providers are held to the same standards risk countries by co-organizing two as our own workforce. Seagate does days of RBA training on the following not currently use foreign labor via agents, topics: Supply Chain Risk Assessment and we partner with recruitment agents (including Foreign Worker Risk), Water in both China and the U.S. who provide Management (including Conservation, local talent. Recycling and Treatment, and Discharge) and Process Chemistry. Over 70 Our Supply Chain organization has fullsuppliers from Singapore, Malaysia, time staff and dedicated resources to Thailand and Taiwan participated in monitor RBA compliance and education, four sections of this training. and ensure adherence to applicable global and local laws. In FY2019, we updated our anti-slavery statement, which includes due diligence Collaboration is key for success in our in our supply chain. You can view the supply chain, and as such, Seagate Anti-Slavery and Human Trafficking plays host to multiple Executive Business Statement on our website. This statement Reviews. These reviews show our RBA was published in response to the compliance and sustainability efforts California Transparency in Supply Chain to supplier leadership. Engaging our Act and the United Kingdom Modern suppliers on key projects that focus on Slavery Act, and to demonstrate our issues like RBA conformance, financial efforts as a company in preventing sustainability, and process improvement slavery and human trafficking in our enables us to continue innovating for business and supply chain. everyone’s benefit. We also worked with our suppliers to Part of that engagement is the training ensure compliance with the Countering that we provide. In FY2019, we trained America’s Adversaries Through our procurement staff on forced labor to Sanctions Act (CAATSA). This U.S. S U PPLY C H A I N 0 97 F Y2019 G LO B A L C I T I Z E N S H I P A N N UA L R E P O R T legislation passed in July 2017, and FY2019, Seagate was made aware of aims to restrict the use of North Korean three cases of high recruitment fees workers in U.S. companies’ supply involving foreign workers at supplier chains. Seagate obtained 115 letters of facilities in Malaysia. During the year, we declaration from its suppliers indicating worked with the RBA and other customers compliance to CAATSA in FY2019. of these suppliers to confirm the allegations and quantify the amount Seagate is proud to have a continued of fees involved. In all three cases, the major role in the RBA, with one of fees were being collected in the home our senior vice presidents serving on country. Identification of recruitment fees, the RBA Board of Directors and the especially in a worker’s home country, executive committee/Senior Leadership has been extremely challenging, but is Council. In the last few years, Seagate very important in protecting workers helped lead the Assessments Workgroup, in our supply chain, and maintaining and participated in other workgroups. integrity as a company. We continue to Having an active presence in the RBA work closely with the RBA and other helps Seagate be a better global citizen, customers to address this issue. and also provides the opportunity to We also continued our work with a work with peers to drive improvements supplier in Thailand that was identified in in the supply chain. FY2018 as having additional recruitment Through audits and reports from nonfees. We will continue to ensure that the governmental organizations (NGOs) in workers are being recruited fairly. S U PPLY C H A I N 098 F Y2019 G LO B A L C I T I Z E N S H I P A N N UA L R E P O R T Supply Chain Due Diligence All identified suppliers are required In FY2019, 10 percent of audited to update their SAQs annually. In suppliers received Platinum Level FY2019, 159 suppliers either completed recognition, meaning they achieved full or updated their SAQ and released scores in the initial VAP audit. These the SAQ via the RBA-ONLINE system. recognitions show our ongoing efforts All existing suppliers, and 100 percent to engage with our suppliers, providing of new suppliers identified in the education and ensuring they have the scope of our policy, are screened necessary means to be compliant. annually. We also aim to align our In FY2019, 32 supplier closure audits suppliers with the latest RBA Code of were conducted. The objective of Conduct revision updates, Conflict-Free these audits was to ensure that Mineral development plan, and RBA suppliers who were previously found environmental questionnaire. to be noncompliant have implemented Seagate requires all of our direct measures to correct any violations materials suppliers with whom we identified in the initial VAP audit. If spend at least $1 million annually, as suppliers are unable to close the well as selected indirect suppliers, to findings, we work to reduce the level of undergo the RBA VAP audit process. severity, and then track closure rates. Doing so helps to ensure integrity and Seagate tracks “priority” and “major” verify conformance with the code of finding closure rates in addition to conduct. These audit reports are valid SAQ and VAP completion. At the end for two years, meaning our suppliers of FY2019, the closure rate of nonare on a two-year audit cycle. We working-hour findings was 79 percent; completed 75 full supplier audits the closure rate of working-hour through the RBA VAP in FY2019, findings was 68 percent. up from 63 in FY2018. S U PPLY C H A I N 099 F Y2019 G LO B A L C I T I Z E N S H I P A N N UA L R E P O R T FY2019 Top 10 Supplier VAP Audit Findings 1. Working Hours 6. Occupational Injury and Illness 2. Emergency Preparedness 7. Sanitation, Food, and Housing 3. Occupational Safety 8. Wages and Benefits 4. Supplier Responsibility 9. Hazardous Substances 5. Freely Chosen Employment 10. Air Emissions FY2019 Supplier Audits by Country US China.............. 33% TAIWAN Thailand.......... 20% VIETNAM Malaysia......... 16% SINGAPORE Philippines...... 8% JAPAN CHINA Japan............. 4% PHILIPPINES Singapore....... 4% Vietnam.......... 4% MALAYSIA THAILAND Taiwan............ 3% US.................. 3% Korea.............. 1% Mexico............ 1% Switzerland..... 1% UK.................. 1% We remain aware of the risk of child in our supply chain. However, various labor, forced labor, and threats to the NGOs report that student workers in the freedom of association within our supply China supply chain represent an area of chain. The highest risk of forced labor in possible concern for the region. our supply chain is where foreign labor is utilized; suppliers in Malaysia, Thailand, As for freedom of association and and Singapore pose the highest risk. collective bargaining, our audit results Our training on forced labor has been have not identified any geographies of focused on suppliers in these countries concern in FY2019. Most of the findings over the past three years. Based on in this area are related to suppliers not supplier VAP audits, child labor has not having a policy/procedure on the right of been identified as a serious concern peaceful assembly. S U PPLY C H A I N 0 10 0 F Y2019 G LO B A L C I T I Z E N S H I P A N N UA L R E P O R T In FY2019, 159 targeted suppliers Seagate also conducted environmental completed the SAQ, with only one compliance screenings of 42 supplier withholding. Additionally, we assigned facilities via the Institute of Public and 105 suppliers (direct materials suppliers) Environmental Affairs (IPE) database. the RBA Environmental survey, which Based on our screenings of 42 supplier gathers information on energy, water, facilities, two of our suppliers were found and waste. 104 suppliers completed the on the database for issues pertaining to survey, meaning Seagate achieved a 99 operation permits, construction permits, percent response rate. and hazardous waste requirements not being met. Both closure actions are complete, and all instances of noncompliance have been closed. Supplier Diversity With major operations in six countries, Seagate recognizes the value and spanning North America, Asia, and buying power of minority-owned Europe, Seagate has great diversity businesses. Diverse suppliers in the U.S. among its employees, local communities, are welcome to participate in Seagate’s global customer base, and suppliers. competitive bidding process, including Seagate encourages diversity throughout businesses owned and operated our supplier base, and contracts regularly by minorities and those located in with diverse suppliers who qualify and historically underutilized business zones. successfully compete for our business. We are proud to play a part in helping As a result, we gain access to solutions our diverse suppliers grow, create jobs, that not only meet our customers’ and, in turn, strengthen the communities requirements, but allow us to build where they live and do business. meaningful and invaluable business relationships. S U PPLY C H A I N 0 101 F Y2019 G LO B A L C I T I Z E N S H I P A N N UA L R E P O R T FY2019 Diversity Spend (U.S. Only) $144.9M DISADVANTAGED VETERAN OWNED WOMAN OWNED Small Business...... $119.62M 82% MINORITY OWNED Minority Owned.... $14.81M 10% Woman Owned.... $6.99M 5% Veteran Owned.... $2.58M 2% SMALL Disadvantaged..... $0.83M 1% BUSINESS Hub Zone............. $0.16M 0% Looking Forward: Supply Chain In FY2020, Seagate will be focused on supplier capacity-building by working with other like-minded companies in carrying out joint training on key topics. We are also looking at conducting focused training on root cause and corrective action plan development for our suppliers in various geographies. Seagate will continue its involvement on the RBA Senior Executive Advisory Council, and will strive for 100 percent completion rates among all identified suppliers (direct and indirect) of the RBA SAQ. In addition, we have a goal that 100 percent of identified suppliers will complete a third-party RBA VAP audit. We are also considering a supplier recognition program to acknowledge and celebrate leading CSR practices at supplier facilities. S U PPLY C H A I N 10 BUSINESS CONTINUITY B AC K TO C O N T E N T S 0 10 3 F Y2019 G LO B A L C I T I Z E N S H I P A N N UA L R E P O R T BUSINESS CONTINUITY OVERVIEW Every country, company, and person faces the complexity and unpredictability of the world each day—and Seagate is no different in facing the innumerable risks and threats to our business. We strongly believe that such business challenges should not be disruptive to our customers and stakeholders. Accordingly, Seagate continued to Management, Crisis Management, implement our Business Continuity Business Continuity Planning, and Management System (BCMS) Supplier Risk Management. throughout FY2019 to help us identify, An overview of our BCMS program manage, and mitigate the various risks is available to our customers, and is and threats to our business. Our BCMS evaluated and updated on an annual encompasses four areas—Incident basis. The most recent version, updated B U S I N ES S C O N T I N U I T Y 0 10 4 F Y2019 G LO B A L C I T I Z E N S H I P A N N UA L R E P O R T for FY2020, reflects changes in the Our drive manufacturing facilities in company, our global program, and Wuxi, China and Korat, Thailand were business continuity policy. We continue audited and recertified in FY2019 to utilize Seagate’s enterprise business and will maintain their ISO 22301 continuity software as our central certifications through CY2021. ISO repository and relational database for 22301 certification states requirements all business continuity related documents to plan, establish, implement, operate, and assessments. In addition, we are monitor, review, maintain and continually planning system enhancements to improve a documented management increase system functionality and a system to protect against, reduce the more intuitive user interface. likelihood of occurrence, prepare for, respond to, and recover from disruptive incidents when they arise. To drive program maturity, a Business Continuity Readiness Index (BCRI) was continued in FY2019 for drive and component sites, with further onboarding of design and major administrative sites occurring. Development and maturity of all sites measured on the BCRI will continue throughout FY2020 with the evaluation of thirty five different data points, mirroring the implementation steps required to obtain ISO 22301 certification. Looking Forward: Business Continuity We will continue to mature and exercise our BCMS throughout FY2020, including a partnership with Supply Chain Risk and the addition of new BCRI metrics to further drive ISO22301 compliance to all sites across our global footprint. B U S I N ES S C O N T I N U I T Y 0 10 5 F Y2019 G LO B A L C I T I Z E N S H I P A N N UA L R E P O R T SUMMARY OF PERFORMANCE PERFORMANCE INDICATOR FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Electricity Consumption 1.633 1.567 1.572 (Million MWh) Electricity Consumption per Storage Capacity Shipped 6,220 4,634 4,526 (MWh/EB) ELECTRICITY Scope 1 and Location-Based Scope USE AND 2 GHG Emissions 1.290 1,157 1,149 CARBON (Million Metric Tons CO2e)1 EMISSIONS Scope 1 and Location-Based Scope 2 GHG Emissions per Storage 5,115 4,053 3,135 Capacity Shipped (Metric Tons CO2e/EB)1 Scope 3 GHG Emissions 4.988 13,8832 16,7902 (Million Metric Tons CO2e)1,2 Water Withdrawal 10,115 8,875 8,282 (Megaliters)1 Water Recycled WATER 19% 22% 31% (Percentage)1 USAGE Water Intensity (Megaliters/EB of storage capacity 40 31.1 22.59 shipped)1 Hazardous Waste Generated 10,211 8,457 9,309 POLLUTION (Tons) PREVENTION Solid Waste Diverted 84% 83% 87% (Percentage) Injury and Illness Recordable Case Rate .22 .16 .19 HEALTH AND (Cases/100 employees) SAFETY Injury and Illness Days-Away Case Rate .14 .08 .11 (Cases/100 employees) Delayed Ethical Conduct and Conflict of due to ETHICS Interest Policy Certification 99% 99% program (Percentage) revision B AC K TO C O N T E N T S S U M M A RY O F P E R F O R M A N C E 0 10 6 F Y2019 G LO B A L C I T I Z E N S H I P A N N UA L R E P O R T PERFORMANCE INDICATOR FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Non-operator Employees Completing Annual Performance 98% 98% 99% Evaluation Process OUR Non-operator Employees with EMPLOYEES 95% 97% 99% Performance Goals Non-operator Employees with 90% 96% 97% Learning Plans 1. Total annual carbon emissions, carbon emissions per storage capacity shipped, and water metrics are measured and reported based on the calendar year. The values provided in this table are for calendar years 2016, 2017 and 2018. Other numbers in the table, for ethics, health and safety, and our employees are all reported in FY. 2. All 15 Scope 3 categories were assessed, and 12 of 15 were found relevant. S U M M A RY O F P E R F O R M A N C E 0 10 7 F Y2019 G LO B A L C I T I Z E N S H I P A N N UA L R E P O R T UNGC CONTENT INDEX Seagate has been an active participant in the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) since 2004, and we have aligned our management systems to the 10 universally-accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment, and anticorruption. These principles guide us as we develop new programs and strategies in the area of global citizenship. We are committed to the implementation, disclosure, and promotion of the UNGC’s Principles throughout our operations. The table below provides a guide to our strategies and actions in support of the 10 principles. THE BUSINESS SHOULD UNGC SUSTAINABILITY SUPPORT AND/OR UPHOLD PAGES PRINCIPLE DEVELOPMENT GOAL THE FOLLOWING: Support and respect the protection of 1 • SDG 17: 64-85 internationally proclaimed human rights. Partnerships 95-101 Make sure that they are not complicit in for the goals 120-122 2 human rights abuses. The freedom of association and the 3 effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. • SDG 5: Gender equality 64-85 The elimination of all forms of forced 95-101 4 and compulsory labour. • SDG 8: Decent 119-122 work and economic 5 The effective abolition of child labour. growth The elimination of discrimination in 6 respect of employment and occupation. Support a precautionary approach to • SDG 6: Clean water 7 and sanitation environmental challenges. • SDG 7: Affordable Undertake initiatives to promote and Clean Energy 8 23-62 greater environmental responsibility. • SDG 12: 95-101 Responsible 119 consumption and Encourage the development and production 9 diffusion of environmentally friendly • SDG 13: Climate technologies. action Work against corruption in all its forms, 64-85 10 including extortion and bribery. 95-101 B AC K TO C O N T E N T S UNGC CONTENT INDE X 0 10 8 F Y2019 G LO B A L C I T I Z E N S H I P A N N UA L R E P O R T GRI CONTENT INDEX This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option to promote a more consistent, standardized approach to its sustainability reporting. Sustainable Datasphere, Seagate’s FY2019 global citizenship report, references the GRI Standards listed in the left-hand column of this GRI Content Index. Where the GRI Standard has not been used in full, we have marked the disclosure “partial” and and where needed explained reasons for omission. For more information about the GRI and Reporting Standards visit www.globalreporting.org. Seagate subscribes to or endorses the following economic, environmental and social charters, principles or other initiatives: 1. Business Coalition for the 6. Responsible Business Alliance Equality Act 7. Responsible Minerals Initiative 2. Carbon Disclosure Project 8. Securities and Exchange 3. Global Reporting Initiative Commission 4. International Labor Organization 9. United Nations Global Compact 5. International Organization for 10. Science Based Targets Standardization (ISO) B AC K TO C O N T E N T S GRI CONTENT INDE X 0 10 9 F Y2019 G LO B A L C I T I Z E N S H I P A N N UA L R E P O R T REASON FOR GRI GRI LEVEL OF LOCATION OMISSION AND STANDARD DISCLOSURE DISCLOSURE OTHER NOTES 102-1 Name of the Form 10-K Full organization Page 6, 9-12 102-2 Activities, Form 10-K, Full brands, products, Page 11 and services 102-3 Location of Form 10-K, Full headquarters Page 12 102-4 Location of Form 10-K Full operations 102-5 Ownership Form 10-K Full and legal form 102-6 Markets Form 10-K Full GRI 102: served GENERAL DISCLOSURES 2016 102-7 Scale of the Form 10-K, Full organization Page 65 102-8 Information Page 65 Full on employees and other workers 102-9 Supply chain Page Full 94-101 102-10 Significant Page 6 Full changes to the organization and its supply chain 102-11 Throughout Full Precautionary Report Principle or approach GRI CONTENT INDE X 0 110 F Y2019 G LO B A L C I T I Z E N S H I P A N N UA L R E P O R T REASON FOR GRI GRI LEVEL OF LOCATION OMISSION AND STANDARD DISCLOSURE DISCLOSURE OTHER NOTES 102-12 External Page 2, 108 Full initiatives 102-13 Membership Page 21 Full of associations 102-14 Statement Page 2 Full from senior decision-maker 102-16 Values, Page 6, Full principles, 16-21 standards, and norms of behavior 102-17 Page 20 Full Mechanisms for advice and concerns about GRI 102: ethics GENERAL DISCLOSURES 2016 102-18 Governance Form 10-K, Full structure Investors Page 102-22 Board of Full Composition of the Directors highest governance Site body and its committees 102-23 Chair of the Board of Full highest governance Directors body Site 102-24 Nominating Governance Full and selecting the Site highest governance body GRI CONTENT INDE X 0 111 F Y2019 G LO B A L C I T I Z E N S H I P A N N UA L R E P O R T REASON FOR GRI GRI LEVEL OF LOCATION OMISSION AND STANDARD DISCLOSURE DISCLOSURE OTHER NOTES 102-25 Conflicts of Governance Full interest Site 102-40 List of Throughout Full stakeholder groups Report 102-41 Collective Page 41 Full bargaining agreements 102-42 Identifying Page 123, Full and selecting 124 stakeholders 102-43 Approach Page 7, Full to stakeholder 123, 124 engagement GRI 102: 102-44 Key topics Throughout Full GENERAL and concerns Report DISCLOSURES raised 2016 102-45 Entities Form 10-K Full included in the consolidated financial statements 102-46 Defining Page 6 Full report content and topic Boundaries 102-47 List of Page 7, 8 Full material topics 102-48 Page 6-8 Full Restatements of information 102-49 Changes in Page 6-8 Full reporting GRI CONTENT INDE X 0 112 F Y2019 G LO B A L C I T I Z E N S H I P A N N UA L R E P O R T REASON FOR GRI GRI LEVEL OF LOCATION OMISSION AND STANDARD DISCLOSURE DISCLOSURE OTHER NOTES 102-50 Reporting Page 6 Full period 102-51 Date of Page 6 Full most recent report 102-52 Reporting Page 6-8 Full cycle 102-53 Contact Page 2 Full point for questions regarding the report GRI 102: 102-54 Claims Page 6-7 Full GENERAL of reporting in DISCLOSURES accordance with 2016 the GRI Standards 102-55 GRI content Page Full index 108-115 102-56 External N/A Full While Seagate has not received external assurance assurance for the data within this report, we have engaged third parties to help determine the report content (including application of the Materiality principle and the stakeholder engagement process) and ensure that the report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. 103-1 Explanation Throughout Full of the material topic and its Boundary GRI 103: 103-2 The Throughout Full MANAGEMENT management APPROACH approach and its 2016 components 103-3 Evaluation of Throughout Full the management approach GRI CONTENT INDE X 0 113 F Y2019 G LO B A L C I T I Z E N S H I P A N N UA L R E P O R T REASON FOR GRI GRI LEVEL OF LOCATION OMISSION AND STANDARD DISCLOSURE DISCLOSURE OTHER NOTES 201-2 Financial Page 47-54, Full implications and CDP other risks and Disclosure opportunities due to climate change 201-3 Defined Form 10-K Full benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans 205-1 Operations Governance Full GRI 205: ANTIassessed for and Ethics CORRUPTION risk related to 2016 Section, corruption Page 18 301-1 Materials Life Cycle Full used by weight or Assessvolume ments, GRI 301: Page 28 MATERIALS 2016 301-3 Reclaimed Page 29 Full products and their packaging materials 302-1 Energy Page Full consumption within 42-46, the organization CDP Report GRI 302: ENERGY 302-3 Energy Page 42-46 Full 2016 intensity 302-4 Reduction Page 42-46 Full of energy consumption GRI CONTENT INDE X 0 114 F Y2019 G LO B A L C I T I Z E N S H I P A N N UA L R E P O R T REASON FOR GRI GRI LEVEL OF LOCATION OMISSION AND STANDARD DISCLOSURE DISCLOSURE OTHER NOTES 303-1 Interactions Page Full with water as a 59-62, shared resource CDP Report 303-2 Management Page 60 Full of water dischargerelated impacts GRI 303: WATER AND EFFLUENTS 2018 303-3 Water Page 59-62 Full X withdrawal 303-4 Water Page 62 Partial Substituting for 306-1 discharge quality and discharge destination 303-5 Water CDP Full consumption Report, Page 60 304-1 Operational Page 39 Full sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to protected areas GRI 304: and areas of high BIODIVERSITY biodiversity value 2016 outside protected areas 304-3 Habitats Page 39 Full protected or restored 305-1 Direct Page 47-54 Full (Scope 1) GHG emissions GRI 305: 305-2 Energy Page 47-54 Full EMISSIONS indirect (Scope 2) 2016 GHG emissions 305-3 Other Page 47-54 Full indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions GRI CONTENT INDE X 0 115 F Y2019 G LO B A L C I T I Z E N S H I P A N N UA L R E P O R T REASON FOR GRI GRI LEVEL OF LOCATION OMISSION AND STANDARD DISCLOSURE DISCLOSURE OTHER NOTES 305-4 GHG Page 47-54 Full emission intensity 305-5 Reduction of Page 47-54 Full GHG emissions GRI 305: 305-6 Emissions Page 54 Full EMISSIONS of ozone-depleting 2016 substances (ODS) 305-7 Nitrogen Page 54 Full oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides (SOx), and other significant air emissions 306-2 Waste by Page 55, 56 Full type and disposal method GRI 306: EFFLUENTS 306-3 Significant Page 56 Full AND WASTE spills 306-4 Transport of Page 55-58 Full hazardous waste 307-1 NonPage 34, 39 Full GRI 307: compliance with ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE 2016 environmental laws and regulations 308-1 New Page Full suppliers that were 94-101 screened using environmental GRI 308: SUPPLIER criteria ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT 2016 308-2 Negative Page 100 Full environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken GRI CONTENT INDE X 0 116 F Y2019 G LO B A L C I T I Z E N S H I P A N N UA L R E P O R T REASON FOR GRI GRI LEVEL OF LOCATION OMISSION AND STANDARD DISCLOSURE DISCLOSURE OTHER NOTES 401-1 New Page 66, 67 Full employee hires and employee turnover GRI 401: EMPLOYMENT 2016 (CONTAINING 401-2 Benefits Page 74 Full STANDARD INTERPRETATION 1) provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or parttime employees 403-1 Occupational Page 73 Full health and safety management system 403-5 Worker Page 74 Partial GRI 403: training on OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND occupational health SAFETY 2018 and safety 403-6 Promotion of Page 75, 76 Full worker health 403-9 Work-related Page 73 Partial injuries 404-1 Average Page 83 Partial hours of training per year per employee 404-2 Programs Page 67, Full for upgrading 83, 84 employee skills GRI 404: and transition TRAINING AND EDUCATION 2016 assistance programs 404-3 Percentage Page 82 Partial of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews GRI CONTENT INDE X 0 117 F Y2019 G LO B A L C I T I Z E N S H I P A N N UA L R E P O R T REASON FOR GRI GRI LEVEL OF LOCATION OMISSION AND STANDARD DISCLOSURE DISCLOSURE OTHER NOTES GRI 405: DIVERSITY 405-1 Diversity of Page 80 Full AND EQUAL governance bodies OPPORTUNITY and employees 2016 407-1 Operations Page 70, 99 Full GRI 407: and suppliers FREEDOM OF in which the ASSOCIATION right to freedom AND COLLECTIVE of association BARGAINING and collective 2016 bargaining may be at risk 408-1 Operations Page 70, 99 Full GRI 408: and suppliers at CHILD LABOR significant risk for 2016 incidents of child labor 409-1 Operations Page 70 Full GRI 409: and suppliers at FORCED OR significant risk for COMPULSORY incidents of forced LABOR 2016 or compulsory labor 410-1 Security Page 71 Full GRI 410: personnel trained SECURITY in human rights PRACTICES 2016 policies or procedures 412-1 Operations Page 71 Full that have been subject to human rights GRI 412: reviews or impact HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT assessments 2016 412-2 Employee Page 71 Partial training on human rights policies or procedures GRI CONTENT INDE X 0 118 F Y2019 G LO B A L C I T I Z E N S H I P A N N UA L R E P O R T REASON FOR GRI GRI LEVEL OF LOCATION OMISSION AND STANDARD DISCLOSURE DISCLOSURE OTHER NOTES 414-1 New Page 98 Full suppliers that were GRI 414: screened using SUPPLIER social criteria SOCIAL ASSESSMENT 414-2 Negative Page 97 Partial 2016 social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken GRI 415: 415-1 Political Page 20 Full PUBLIC POLICY contributions 416-1 Assessment Page 22-25 Full of the health and safety impacts of product and service categories GRI 416: CUSTOMER HEALTH AND 416-2 Incidents Page 23 Full SAFETY 2016 of noncompliance concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services GRI 419: 419-1 NonForm 10-K Full SOCIOcompliance with ECONOMIC laws and regulations COMPLIANCE in the social and 2016 economic area GRI CONTENT INDE X 0 119 F Y2019 G LO B A L C I T I Z E N S H I P A N N UA L R E P O R T ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH, AND SAFETY POLICY Seagate is committed to providing • Promote a healthy lifestyle and safe workplaces, natural resource encourage employees to proactively conservation, and environmentally manage their personal health. responsible operations in the communities • Promote economic, environmental, where we do business. Our commitment and social sustainability, and pollution is underpinned by three values that prevention through continual process ensure our business sustainably improvements and responsible delivers value to our many stakeholders: business practices. Integrity, Innovation, and Inclusion. • Deliver operational resilience to Seagate requires all employees and effectively respond to potential contractors to work safely and integrate disruptions through measurable EHS Environment, Health, and Safety (EHS) performance improvements. procedures and practices into their daily work activities, projects, and programs. • Develop safe, efficient products and manufacturing processes by Seagate commits to: integrating EHS considerations into • Implement and continually improve all aspects of research, design, and comprehensive management systems development. ensuring compliance with legal, • Partner with suppliers, customers, regulatory, and other stakeholder and stakeholders to publicly share requirements to which we subscribe. best practices and EHS performance • Protect the safety and health of all criteria. those associated with our operations • Support environmental, educational, by identifying and implementing a health-related and other socially hierarchy of controls to eliminate the sustainable initiatives in the communities sources of incidents, injuries, and in which Seagate operates. illnesses. • Encourage employees at all levels to participate in occupational, health, and safety programs with an expectation Dave Mosley, that safe behavior is incorporated into CEO all business activities. April 2018 B AC K TO C O N T E N T S P O L I C I ES 0 12 0 F Y2019 G LO B A L C I T I Z E N S H I P A N N UA L R E P O R T HUMAN RIGHTS POLICY As a global industry leader, Seagate Respectful treatment. Employees welcomes the responsibility to also must respect and value each other and be a Global Citizen. In partnership we hold everyone accountable for this. with employees, community members, Violations, such as physical abuse and/ customers, suppliers, and other or harassment or the threat of either, stakeholders, our commitment to Global are not tolerated. All employees will be Citizenship includes support of the ten allowed access to basic liberties while on Principles of the United Nations Global Company premises. We respect religious Compact within our sphere of influence. diversity and employees may be provided These Principles address responsibility with reasonable accommodations for for the environment and other matters; religious practices, upon request. Any however, most address the international requests for reasonable accommodation human rights and labor standards that should be directed to Site Human must be upheld to ensure the well-being Resources. and dignity of each person. Employment based on achievements. We have developed policies to reinforce Decisions about employees are based our commitment to uphold these human on achievements against job goals and/ rights and labor standards. We will abide or standards and required competencies; by these policies or the local law in the decisions about applicants are made on countries where we operate, whichever qualifications against job requirements. sets a higher standard. Managers In all employment actions, we prohibit are responsible for upholding these discrimination based on age, race, Principles and for ensuring adherence color, ancestry, ethnic or national origin, physical or mental disability, medical to all company policies and guidelines in condition, genetic information, marital their support. status, sex (which includes pregnancy The following are some of Seagate’s or perceived pregnancy, childbirth, basic standards with regard to breastfeeding, or related medical International Human Rights and Labor conditions), gender identity, gender Standards (including the International expression, sexual orientation, perceived Labor Organization (ILO) core labor or actual religious creed or political conventions*): opinion, military and veteran status, B AC K TO C O N T E N T S P O L I C I ES 0 121 F Y2019 G LO B A L C I T I Z E N S H I P A N N UA L R E P O R T taking or requesting statutorily protected We will also provide employees with leave, taking or requesting a reasonable at least one day off per every seven accommodation for a protected basis, or days. Overtime will be voluntary and other basis protected by applicable law. comply with all applicable overtime pay requirements. No unreasonable Free to express opinions. Every restrictions of movement will be placed employee has a right to openly express upon employees during non-work hours. their opinion. In fact, we welcome and encourage ideas and input, including Free to associate. We respect and notification of issues and concerns. adhere to all applicable laws concerning the right of workers to organize in Fair compensation. We assess labor unions and engage in collective performance against job requirements bargaining and peaceful assembly, and and consider business conditions Seagate will not prohibit or impede and appropriate market comparisons employees exercising such rights. to deliver compensation. We will However, we believe maintaining an compensate employees with wages and open, unencumbered relationship benefits that meet or exceed the legally between Seagate employees and their required minimum without delay, and will managers is the most effective means of clearly communicate to all employees addressing work environment questions their compensation earned. and concerns. Due process. We understand that an Free to choose employment. We employee may not meet performance will ensure that the overall terms of or conduct expectations. In such employment are voluntary. We will circumstances, the employee has a right not require employees to pay the to a fair process of review. Any resulting Company any remuneration or withhold disciplinary actions will be humane. an employee’s government-issued Deductions from wages as a disciplinary identification upon hire. We firmly prohibit measure will not be permitted. any form of human trafficking or slavery, Reasonable limitation of working and will ensure no forced, bonded hours. The hours worked by employees (including debt bondage) or indentured should not exceed 60 hours per work labor; involuntary or exploitative prison week, or be in excess of the maximum labor is used in the production of hours of daily labor set by local laws Seagate products. in the countries in which we operate. P O L I C I ES 0 12 2 F Y2019 G LO B A L C I T I Z E N S H I P A N N UA L R E P O R T Employment at age 18 or higher. program provides interns an opportunity We strictly prohibit child labor and will to undergo supervised practical comply with all local minimum age laws development and gain real-world and requirements and/or set a minimum experiential learning that complements employment age of 18, whichever sets their education. Seagate does not the higher standard. offer any type of apprentice program. Additionally, Seagate does not hire Intern Program. We provide internship student workers other than those that opportunities to college/polytechnic/ meet the criteria for the intern program. university students, who meet our For additional information, visit Seagate’s minimum employment age of 18. This Global Citizenship website. Note: *Our labor standards in the Human Rights policy address the core ILO Labor Conventions No. 29, 87, 98, 100, 105, 111, 138 and 182. P O L I C I ES 0 12 3 F Y2019 G LO B A L C I T I Z E N S H I P A N N UA L R E P O R T STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Engaging with key stakeholders on relevant environmental, social and governance issues is an important activity that provides Seagate with the insights and relationships needed to make well-informed business decisions. Seagate identifies stakeholders through a mapping exercise that utilizes a set of criteria to prioritize engagement. The criteria included past engagement, collaboration with industry association e.g. the RBA, and publication of industry reports, among others. Each year, we solicit feedback from We meet regularly with investors, our customers and business partners governments, nongovernmental to shape our Global Citizenship organizations, local communities, and program plans and strategies. For other civil society members to gather example, through a variety of surveys perspectives about trends in business and reporting initiatives, Seagate and society that may influence not shares detailed information about the only our business success, but also company’s environmental performance the extent to which we can contribute and greenhouse gas emissions to help positively to sustainable development. the electronics industry improve its We constantly engage with employees, environmental footprint. We also solicit and for suppliers we have a dedicated feedback through Net Promoter Score supplier day, webinars, training and more. and Customer Scorecards (quarterly business reviews) data quarterly. B AC K TO C O N T E N T S STA K E H O L D E R E N G AG E M E N T 0 12 4 F Y2019 G LO B A L C I T I Z E N S H I P A N N UA L R E P O R T Global Citizenship Stakeholder Inquiry Process Seagate has an established process range from environmental performance, to address specific stakeholder global product stewardship, and product safety citizenship issues or requests. A subset of to labor standards, fair trade, supply chain, the Global Citizenship team manages this and more. process. The types of information provided Global Citizenship Issues/Requests Team Representative Product Stewardship Environmental Environmental Health & Safety Health & Safety Medical Program Material Use Vendor Labor Materials Vendor Standards Media Inquiries Corporate NGO Concerns Communications Philanthropy Issue has wellInitial Seagate Global Citizenship Respond to defined response YES Point of Contact Team Coordinator stakeholder procedure in place Labor Questions Employment Human Resources NO Standards Global Citizenship Sarbanes Oxley Draft Response Committee Convenes NYSE Requirements Finance Financial Assurance Company Ethics Product Liability Legal Contract Questions STA K E H O L D E R E N G AG E M E N T 0 12 5 F Y2019 G LO B A L C I T I Z E N S H I P A N N UA L R E P O R T ACRONYMS 3TG (“Conflict Minerals”) Tungsten, Tin, Tantalum, and Gold BCMS Business Continuity Management System BCRI Business Continuity Readiness Index CAS Chemical Abstract Service CDP Carbon Disclosure Project CEO Chief Executive Officer CO2 Carbon Dioxide CO2e Carbon Dioxide Equivalent CSOP Corporate Standard Operating Procedures CY Calendar Year DRC Democratic Republic of the Congo EB Exabyte EMEA Europe, Middle East, Africa EPEAT Electronic Product Environmental Assessment Tool FMD Full Material Disclosure FY Fiscal Year GHG Greenhouse Gas GRI Global Reporting Initiative HDD Hard Disk Drive ICT Information and Communication Technology ILO International Labor Organization ISE Instant Secure Erase ISO International Organization for Standardization LCA Life Cycle Assessment MCI Material Circularity Indicator MWh Megawatt Hour NGO Nongovernmental Organization OEM Original Equipment Manufacturer B AC K TO C O N T E N T S AC R OY N M S 0 12 6 F Y2019 G LO B A L C I T I Z E N S H I P A N N UA L R E P O R T ACRONYMS OHSAS Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series OSHA Occupational Safety and Health Administration PLC Public Limited Company RBA Responsible Business Alliance REACH Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals RMA Responsible Minerals Initiative RoHS Restriction of Hazardous Substances SAQ Self-Assessment Questionnaire SEC Securities and Exchange Commission STEM Science, Technology, Engineering, Math TCO Total Cost of Ownership TSDF Treatment, Storage, and Disposal Facility U.S. United States (of America) UK United Kingdom UNGC United Nations Global Compact VAP Validated Audit Program AC R OY N M S THANK YOU.
