2020 Sustainability Report Winning together Coles Group Limited ABN 11 004 089 936 Coles Group Limited 2020 Sustainability Report Front cover: The Chittick family, who are fifth generation dairy farmers from Gerrigong in New South Wales, were among a number of dairy farmers in Victoria and on the south coast of New South Wales who became direct suppliers of milk to Coles in FY20. Pictured are Tim and Melissa Chittick with their sons Beau and Mitchell and baby daughter Ruby. This page: Team members at our Coles Local Rose Bay store wearing polo shirts made from 65% recycled plastic bottles. The store also has doors on most refrigeration units to reduce energy use; zero edible food waste to landfill by donating unsold, edible food waste to SecondBite (one of our food rescue charity partners) or disposed of in organic waste bins; and offers free cardboard boxes for customers to pack their groceries to take home. B Coles Group Limited 2020 Sustainability Report We want to drive generational sustainability so we are here for another century, creating jobs, supporting our suppliers and making a positive difference in our local communities. 1 Coles Group Limited 2020 Sustainability Report Contents About Coles 3 Coles acknowledges the Traditional Custodians of Country Message from the Chairman and throughout Australia and pays its respects to elders past and Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer 4 present. We recognise their rich cultures and continuing Sustainability at Coles 6 connection to land and waters. How we create value 10 Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples are advised Sustainable communities 13 that this document may contain names and images of Sustainable products 47 people who are deceased. Sustainable environmental practices 59 Our stakeholder engagement 70 All references to Indigenous people in this document are Aligning with global goals 72 intended to include Aboriginal and/or Torres Strait Islander Our data 74 people. Assurance statement 78 About this Sustainability Report 79 Welcome to the Coles Group 2020 Sustainability Report Forward-looking statements This report contains forward-looking statements in relation to Coles Group Limited and its related bodies corporate (together, ‘Coles’ or ‘the Group’), including statements regarding the Group’s intent, belief, goals, objectives, initiatives, commitments or current expectations with respect to the Group’s business and operations, market conditions, results of operations and financial conditions, and risk management practices. Forward-looking statements can generally be identified by the use of words such as ‘forecast’, ‘estimate’, ‘plan’, ‘will’, ‘anticipate’, ‘may’, ‘believe’, ‘should’, ‘expect’, ‘intend’, ‘outlook’, ‘guidance’ and other similar expressions. These forward-looking statements are based on the Group’s good-faith assumptions as to the financial, market, risk, regulatory and other relevant environments that will exist and affect the Group’s business and operations in the future. The Group does not give any assurance that the assumptions will prove to be correct. The forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and assumptions and other important factors, many of which are beyond the reasonable control of the Group, that could cause the actual results, performances or achievements of the Group to be materially different from future results, performances or achievements expressed or implied by the statements. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements in this report speak only as at the date of issue. Except as required by applicable laws or regulations, the Group does not undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any of the forward-looking statements or to advise of any change in assumptions on which any such statement is based. Past performance cannot be relied on as a guide for future performance. Reliance on third-party information The views expressed in this Sustainability Report contain information that has been derived from publicly available sources that have not been independently verified. No representation or warranty is made as to the accuracy, completeness or reliability of the information. Some photographs in our Sustainability Report were taken before COVID-19 social distancing restrictions were in place. 2 Coles Group Limited 2020 Sustainability Report About Coles Overview Just over a year ago, we announced our vision to become Sustainable communities the most trusted retailer in Australia and grow long-term shareholder value, as well as our purpose to sustainably feed all Australians to help them lead healthier, happier lives. Our focus on customers has never been stronger than in to the challenges of FY20. During the year, we continued to FY20, as we were confronted by many challenges including prioritise health, safety and wellbeing for our customers and Sustainable products drought, floods, devastating bushfires and the ongoing 118,000 team members. We worked with our supply partners COVID-19 global pandemic. During this extraordinary to deliver food and essential groceries to communities year, our team members and suppliers have risen to the across Australia. challenges of safely providing essential services to all Our efforts to Win Together were also supported by our LEaD Australians. behaviours framework – Look ahead, Energise everyone Our corporate strategy has three strategic pillars to enable and Deliver with pride as well as our newly-launched us to deliver our vision and purpose: Inspire Customers, Coles’ values – Customer obsession; Passion and pace; Smarter Selling and Win Together. Responsibility; and Health and happiness. These behaviours Sustainable environmental practices and values are expected to guide the day-today decisions Our commitment to Win Together with our team members, and actions of all team members, shaping the way we work suppliers and communities to make a positive difference together to get things done. for all Australians underpinned our approach to responding Our strategy. Our behaviours. Our vision is to become the most trusted retailer in Australia and grow long-term shareholder value. Our purpose Our metrics and data Sustainably feed all Australians to help them lead healthier, happier lives. Smarter Selling Win Together Our values. through efficiency with our team and pace of members, suppliers change. and communities. Inspire Customers through best value food and drink solutions to make lives easier. 3 Coles Group Limited 2020 Sustainability Report Message from the Chairman, and Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer With drought in much of the country, floods in other parts, bushfires and then COVID-19, FY20 was a year like no other. Our focus has been on team and customer safety, and supporting vulnerable Australians in our community. We want to acknowledge and thank our team members Community partners SecondBite and Foodbank saw firstwho, together with our supply partners, worked tirelessly hand the impact of the drought, bushfires and COVID-19. to provide Australians with essential food, drinks and fuel. In addition to food collection from our supermarkets These efforts in FY20 were reflective of our dual objectives and distribution centres, we supported them with food to build trust and drive sustainability. The three pillars of and groceries to a retail value of $7.9 million in response our Sustainability Strategy – Sustainable communities, to increasing demand for food relief as a result of the Sustainable products and Sustainable environmental pandemic. practices – provide the framework for this report. We listened and acted on feedback provided during We proudly support the United Nations Global Compact the year, including that which was raised as part of the and this report demonstrates how we are responding to its shareholder resolution at Coles’ 2019 Annual General ten principles, as detailed on page 72. Meeting. We are committed to transparently sourcing goods and services in an ethical manner, minimising the potential Sustainable communities for labour and human rights issues in our supply chains and FY20 presented difficult challenges for our team members, operations. We worked to strengthen our ethical sourcing customers, suppliers and the community. program during the year including adding the industryled Fair Farms initiative and releasing Coles’ first Human The safety of our more than 118,000 team members and Rights Strategy. Our first Modern Slavery Statement was also millions of customers remained our top priority as we released in accordance with new reporting requirements. adapted to new ways of working and shopping. Pleasingly, the total recordable injury frequency rate decreased from We continue to work to build strong relationships with all 27.8 in FY19 to 22.7 in FY20, an 18.3% improvement. our suppliers and importantly with Australian farmers and producers. Recognising the importance of supporting team members’ mental wellbeing, our partnership with The Resilience In July 2020, Coles expanded its direct sourcing of Own Project was extended to provide educational videos and Brand fresh milk to dairy farmers in South Australia which other resources. will be followed by Western Australia in October 2020. This direct milk sourcing model follows a successful rollout We worked with our suppliers and governments to provide in Victoria and the New South Wales south coast which customers with essential food, drinks and fuel in times of commenced in July 2019. extraordinary demand during the height of the pandemic and in response to the impacts of bushfires when During the year we also announced that we would provide communities were isolated. more than $3.6 million in grants from the Coles Nurture Fund to 15 producers who are planning to improve sustainability, New safety measures were introduced at our stores, and to rebuild after bushfires and to produce more Australiandistribution centres, and store support team members made food and beverages. adapted to remote working. Coles’ total community support in FY20 was more than Strong relationships with our suppliers and logistics partners $139 million, an increase of 21% compared with FY19. provided us the ability to pivot to new operating models with This included direct community support of more than pop-up distribution centres established and government $125 million with an additional $14 million contributed by approval to extend delivery windows to stores. customers, team members and suppliers. 4 Coles Group Limited 2020 Sustainability Report Overview Sustainable communities Sustainable products Food security and reducing food waste are important Sustainable products social and environmental issues. Our focus on reducing Our focus on health was supported by our expanding food waste has meant that since 2003, the equivalent of range of healthy products and meal solutions, and the more than 147 million healthy and nutritious meals have introduction of more meat-free protein alternatives. been provided to people in need through our partnerships We also worked with community partners to promote good with SecondBite and Foodbank. health. This included teaming up with the Heart Foundation In FY20, more than 360 million pieces or 1.5 million kilograms to raise awareness of heart disease, launching a partnership of flexible plastic was collected from our stores by REDcycle, with The Stephanie Alexander Kitchen Garden Foundation an increase of 59% compared with FY19. Since the REDcycle Sustainable environmental practices to provide children with food education and announcing a program began in 2011, Coles has diverted more than one five-year partnership with the Australian Football League. billion pieces or 4,300 tonnes of flexible plastic from landfill Responsible sourcing is an important aspect of our across Australia. Own Brand offering and we are proud of our animal We understand our customers want us to reduce welfare achievements and our responsibly sourced packaging and to make it easier for them to recycle. We seafood program. In FY20, Coles was again awarded the are committed to improving the recyclability of Own Brand Marine Stewardship Council’s Best Sustainable Seafood packaging while also acknowledging that packaging, Supermarket in Australia. An award we have held since 2017. including plastic packaging, plays a key role in protecting We also expanded our Graze range, launching Graze products during transport, extending product life, keeping lamb in January 2020 as well as adding to our range of food safe and reducing food waste as it travels through our RSPCA Approved products with the introduction of Slow supply chain to our stores. Hills chicken. We are proud to have the broadest range In November 2019, we were proud to receive the Australian Our metrics and data of RSPCA-Approved products of any major Australian Packaging Covenant Organisation’s Large Retailer Sector supermarket. award for our achievements in sustainable packaging Sustainable environmental practices design, recycling initiatives and product stewardship. As one of Australia’s largest companies, we understand our Looking ahead responsibility to minimise our impact on the environment. While FY20 was an incredibly challenging year, it reinforced With the importance of climate change highly visible during to us that by working together and supporting each other the year, this responsibility has never been so clear. This we could continue to provide Australians with essential includes maintaining security of food supply as our climate food, drinks and fuel. Never has a strong vision, purpose changes to enable us to sustainably feed all Australians. and strategy been more important as we build on our In FY20, we were the first major Australian retailer to learnings from this year to continue to support team commit to buying renewable energy through a power members, customers, supply partners and the community purchase agreement. The 10-year agreement is in place more broadly. to purchase power from three solar plants in New South Wales with the projects expected to provide 10% of Coles’ national power needs. The solar plants are expected to be James Graham AM Steven Cain operational in FY21. Chairman Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer 5 Coles Group Limited 2020 Sustainability Report Sustainability at Coles Coles’ approach to sustainability is about giving stakeholders confidence that we are driving positive environmental and social change. It is about earning and keeping their trust. Our Sustainability Strategy Sustainability governance Coles Sustainability Strategy is focused on: The Board oversees and approves the strategic direction of the Group and the effectiveness of Coles’ environmental, sustainability and governance policies. It retains ultimate oversight of material environmental and sustainability risks Sustainable communities and opportunities. The Audit and Risk Committee assists the Board in fulfilling its responsibilities. The Sustainability Steering Committee, a management Sustainable products committee, is responsible for overseeing Group-wide identification and response to sustainability risks and opportunities. It is chaired by the Chief Sustainability, Property & Export Officer, a member of the Executive Sustainable environmental practices Leadership Team reporting to the Chief Executive Officer. Its standing members comprise management from functions with key sustainability responsibilities including Our Sustainability Strategy is aligned with the United Risk and Compliance, Sustainability, Own Brand, Company Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and the United Secretariat and Corporate Affairs. Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UNSDGs). More information about the UNGC and the UNSDGs can be The Chair of the Sustainability Steering Committee provides found on pages 72 and 73 of this report, and in our response regular updates to the Board and the Audit and Risk to the Global Reporting Initiative on the Group’s website. Committee on sustainability issues.  colesgroup.com.au/sustainability The Sustainability Steering Committee is supported by other steering committees, subcommittees and working groups Our Sustainability Strategy is also guided by social, ethical including the Human Rights Steering Committee, the and environmental policies, which can be found on the Climate Change Subcommittee and the Own Brand, Coles Group’s website. Express and Coles Liquor sustainability working groups. colesgroup.com.au/corporategovernance Information on our overall approach to corporate governance can be found in the 2020 Corporate Our 2020 Sustainability Report has been reviewed and Governance Statement on the Group’s website. approved by the Board. colesgroup.com.au/corporategovernance 6 Coles Group Limited 2020 Sustainability Report Overview Showing support for regional Victoria following the devastating bushfire season, members of the Coles’ leadership team met with team members from local Sustainable communities front-line stores at Gapsted Winery near Myrtleford for a thank you dinner. The three-day strategy offsite also included seeing local suppliers such as Beechworth Honey, LaManna Premier Group, Montague, meat processors and producers, Brown Brothers and local representatives from the Country Fire Authority. Understanding our key sustainability issues Against this backdrop of uncertainty and to also address Sustainable products evolving regulatory and industry-wide responses to key A sustainability materiality assessment was conducted social and environmental issues and impacts – including during FY20 to understand the sustainability issues that government commitments and targets, such as the matter most to our stakeholders. We gathered insights from national packaging and waste targets, as well as industry customers, surveyed team members, talked to investors and supplier capability – we examined how our key and analysts, and reviewed traditional and social media sustainability ambitions and commitments are established, and government and industry trends. The assessment was measured and reported. This approach underpins our informed by sustainability risks identified and managed in focus on continuously improving our management and Sustainable environmental practices accordance with our Risk Management Framework, which performance, in regard to social and environmental is based on ISO 31000:2018 Risk management – Guidelines. impacts and opportunities. The issues and opportunities identified inform our As a result, we have recalibrated and refreshed the Sustainability Strategy and the disclosures in this report. way some metrics are managed and reported. This They should not be viewed individually, as in most cases has provided greater clarity around definitions and they are interconnected, and action and progress in one calculation methodology, to provide stakeholders with area can lead to improvements in another. information that is transparent, well defined, accurate and comparable. Our aim is to continuously improve our Key events of this year – drought, bushfires and the reporting as sustainability systems and processes mature. COVID-19 pandemic (COVID-19) – clearly relate to material sustainability topics including climate change, health, We have revisited some commitments to ensure they are safety and wellbeing, and support for communities and applicable in these changing and challenging times, Our metrics and data supply partners. These events have focused the way in and have referenced any updates in the relevant section which sustainability is considered across the business. of the report, acknowledging that future changes may be required should similar challenges or ones without A year of change – aligning our focus precedent occur. Drought, devastating bushfires, a global pandemic – 2020 Coles has a key role to play in driving industry towards brought challenges of exceptional scale not only for our sustainable outcomes, focusing on areas where we team members and customers but also for our suppliers and can influence and create change. We understand the operations partners as we worked together to provide the responsibility we have to meet the needs of our team, community with essential supplies. And while there were customers, suppliers and the communities in which we challenges, there were also great stories of resilience and live and work and are committed to making a positive we are proud of our coordinated response as an essential difference. service, supporting communities in need. Understanding and meeting these responsibilities is key to achieving our vision to become the most trusted Australian retailer and to growing long-term value for our shareholders. 7 Coles Group Limited 2020 Sustainability Report Sustainability achievements Sustainable Sustainable Sustainable environmental communities products practices $139m 1bn+ Best Sustainable Seafood Supermarket in Australia Awarded by MSC. community support pieces of flexible plastic Holder of the award since 2017 21% from FY19 through REDcycle since 2011 147m+ Meals to people in need Broadest range of RSPCA Approved products of any major Australian 65% supermarket food waste diversion since 2003 (equivalent of) 4,700+ 2,000+ Own Brand products displaying 79 % Indigenous team members the Australasian Recycling Label waste diverted from landfill 16% from FY19 helping customers to recycle 18.3% Improvement in 2,400+ Own Brand products 36.5% Greenhouse gas emissions total recordable injury displaying Health Star Rating (Scope 1 and 2) from 2009 frequency rate from FY19 at end of FY20 Most Popular Retail and Direct milk sourcing Large Retailer Sector award Fast-Moving Consumer with dairy farmers from the Australian Packaging Goods Employer in Victoria and south coast Covenant Organisation in the Top 100 Graduate of New South Wales in FY20 Employers 2020 Awards 8 Coles Group Limited 2020 Sustainability Report Overview Sustainable communities Sustainable products Sustainable environmental practices Our metrics and data SecondBite and Coles teams mark the milestone of donating the equivalent of 100 million meals to SecondBite since 2011 (top). Coles Chief Sustainability, Property & Export Officer Thinus Keevé and food journalist, TV personality and SecondBite Board member Matt Preston launch the Coles Winter Appeal, which raised nearly $1 million in less than two weeks for SecondBite (bottom). 9 Coles Group Limited 2020 Sustainability Report How we create value Nurture Innovation Fund R&D Five Freedoms for animal welfare Australian farmers Suppliers, processors Transport and and producers and packaging distribution Coles Supermarkets has an Thousands of suppliers provide us with Working with our logistics partners, Australian-first sourcing policy to Own Brand and proprietary branded we are reducing our environmental provide our customers with quality products. We are working with Own footprint through more efficient fleet Australian-grown fresh produce. Brand suppliers to improve Own Brand movements. We are also ensuring By doing this, we are supporting packaging recyclability, including customers are provided with quality, Australian farmers and growers who labelling on Own Brand products to safe products by conducting provide us with healthy, quality help customers recycle. REDcycle selected quality checks when products. Our support includes the soft plastics recycling is available produce arrives at our fresh produce $50 million Coles Nurture Fund. in our supermarkets. distribution centres, with additional checks for chilled products. Our economic value creation Suppliers Team members Shareholders Governments Community $29.9bn $4.8bn $873m $2.6bn $139m supplier and payments and benefits total dividends cash taxes paid community services spend to team members paid and collected support All figures above are as at 28 June 2020, with the exception of community support (30 June 2020) 10 Coles Group Limited 2020 Sustainability Report We are driven by our purpose to sustainably feed all Australians to help them lead healthier, happier lives , which means we need to consider our social and environmental impacts in all that we do. Overview Sustainable communities Coles Coles Online Strategy Sustainable products Convenience Retail and Team Customers and store network members community We support local economic growth With more than 118,000 team Through community partnerships, Sustainable environmental practices through investment in new stores and members, including the largest we are supporting Australians and infrastructure, while continuing to number of Aboriginal and Torres Strait reducing our environmental impact. reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Islander team members in Australia’s Our work with SecondBite and Innovation is key to providing online private sector, our workforce reflects Foodbank provides Australians in grocery and convenient shopping the diversity of our customers and need with healthy, nutritious food that experiences to make life easier for our the community. A safe and inclusive might otherwise go to waste. Disaster customers. Providing safe, responsibly workforce for all is our priority. relief and business continuity plans sourced, nutritious products at support customers and communities competitive prices is fundamental. in times of extreme weather events and other crises. Own Brand and Exclusive Liquor Brands Our metrics and data Coles Own Brand (Own Brand) is the portfolio of food, owned by Coles and brands that are owned by suppliers drink and non-food product brands owned by Coles. It but exclusive to Coles. includes Own Brand grocery, fresh produce and meat Own Brand and ELB provide Coles with a point of products sold in our supermarkets and convenience difference from our competitors. We go to great lengths outlets. Standard Own Brand products are those sold to ensure the products are compelling, high-quality, throughout the year, while seasonal Own Brand products great value and loved by our customers. are those sold as part of special events or celebrations. In this report, we refer to brands owned by other Exclusive Liquor Brands (ELB) refers to items sold companies as proprietary brands. exclusively in our liquor stores, including brands that are 11 Coles Group Limited 2020 Sustainability Report Michelin-starred chef and Coles ambassador Curtis Stone takes on Essendon Football Club’s talented recruits Freda, Jamie-Lee and Aggie as Coles announced a new five-year partnership in February 2020 to support Tiwi Island female footballers through the club’s Tiwi Pathway Program. Sustainable communities Overview Sustainable communities FY20 presented difficult times for our team members, customers, suppliers and the community as we dealt with unforeseen challenges including drought, devastating bushfires and COVID-19. The Win Together pillar of our Corporate Strategy guided our response. Sustainable products The safety of our more than 118,000 team members and millions of customers remained our top priority as we adapted to new ways of working and shopping. We worked with our suppliers and governments to provide customers with essential food and groceries in times of extraordinary demand during COVID-19 and in response to the impacts of bushfires when communities were isolated. Sustainable environmental practices Community partners SecondBite and Foodbank also felt the impact, and we supported them with additional food and product donations. We thanked rural fire brigades by providing them with more than $3 million in gift vouchers, and we supported the Country Women’s Association and the Australian Red Cross. By working with our team members, charity partners, suppliers and producers we will continue to Win Together, to create positive change and sustainably feed all Australians to help them lead healthier, happier lives. Our metrics and data United Nations Sustainable Development Goals United Nations Global Compact Principles 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 13 Coles Group Limited 2020 Sustainability Report Our team members Our team members bring the Win Together strategy pillar to life, and Coles is passionate about being a great place to work. Caring for team members helps them to do a great job supporting our customers, suppliers and the community. A great place to work Developing retailer leaders With more than 118,000 team members, Coles is one of The Coles Retail Leaders Program is our pathway Australia’s largest private-sector employers. Our culture, for developing leadership capability and talent in which has health, safety and wellbeing at its core, fosters supermarkets. In FY20, 645 team members across an inclusive and supportive environment where everyone Supermarkets, Liquor and Express completed retail feels they belong and is respected and valued. leadership programs, with 89% of participants holding roles directly related to their training by the end of the year. We are the first employer for thousands of Australians with 20% of Coles’ workforce aged under 20. We also have Our graduate program many long-serving team members, with more than 7,800 As one of Australia’s largest employers of graduates, having worked with us for longer than 20 years. Coles’ two-year graduate program provides participants In March and April 2020, as COVID-19 created challenges with a mix of technical, operational and leadership skills. for any Australian businesses, we recruited and onboarded Throughout the program, graduates are assigned roles new team members to work in our supply chain, stores and with real challenges and responsibilities. At the end of online services. Working with other large organisations, we FY20, there were more than 200 graduates in the program recruited some of their employees who were impacted by across our Store Support Centres, store operations and the crisis and increased the number of Indigenous team distribution centres. members during the same period. Reflective of the difficult In February 2020, Coles was named the Most Popular times faced by many, more than 600,000 applications were Retail and Fast-Moving Consumer Goods Employer received from people wanting to work at Coles during in the Top 100 Graduate Employers 2020 Awards. COVID-19. The awards are determined by data analysed by Team member engagement continues to improve, with our GradConnection, an online graduate sourcing, engagement score increasing by seven percentage points insight and branding website. in FY20 alongside record participation of 81%. Planning and coaching Growing great careers Performance management helps us energise, empower We understand the importance of supporting team and support our team members to succeed in their roles. In members with opportunities to grow their careers. Our FY20, Performance@Coles was launched. This tool supports programs include job-specific training and coaching in line managers and salaried team members to set objectives stores, distribution centres and support centres, as well as in line with our strategy and to monitor performance. formal learning across a broad range of areas delivered The new approach emphasises the importance of clear both online and in-person. As a result of COVID-19, we have expectations and regular check-ins and has a strong focus accelerated aspects of the program to enable remote on coaching and constructive feedback. The visibility of delivery of career development content. performance objectives from executive leaders down helps create consistency and alignment across the business. 14 Coles Group Limited 2020 Sustainability Report Overview Sustainable communities Award-covered salaried team member review Coles 2020 graduates in the Store Support Centre, Melbourne(top). Coles was Sustainable products named the Most Popular Retail and FMCG Employer in the Top 100 Graduate Employers 2020 Awards. Long-standing team members Graeme, June, In February 2020, Coles announced that it was conducting a Brenda, Diedre, Leo, Kerry, Ken and Angela, who have all worked at Coles for more than 50 years. review into the pay arrangements for team members who receive a salary and are covered by the General Retail Industry Award 2010. The review does not relate to team members who are remunerated in accordance with Team members approved enterprise agreements and who comprise more than 90% of our workforce. Coles recognised a provision Sustainable environmental practices 118,000+ of $20 million in the FY20 half year report in relation to expected remediation costs. Coles continues to be supported by a dedicated team of external experts as we complete the review. Remediation to affected current and former team members commenced in June 2020, and at the date of this report, this process is Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander nearing its conclusion. team members We aim to make Coles a great place to work for all 4,700+ team members and apologise to those who have been unintentionally affected. Coles has had ongoing communications with the Fair Work Our metrics and data Ombudsman since February. In May 2020, Coles was notified that a class action Team member engagement proceeding had been filed in the Federal Court of Australia in relation to payment of Coles managers (percentage points) employed in supermarkets. Coles is defending the 7pp proceeding. As the court proceeding is at an early stage, the potential outcome and total costs associated with this matter are uncertain at the date of this report. 15 Coles Group Limited 2020 Sustainability Report Health, safety and wellbeing The health, safety and wellbeing of team members, customers and contractors is fundamental to our purpose to sustainably feed all Australians to help them lead healthier, happier lives. We are committed to providing a safe working and shopping environment, and are focused on creating a culture with health, safety and wellbeing embedded in our DNA. Health, safety and wellbeing were key issues in FY20 as Safety leadership and culture we supported team members, customers and suppliers through many challenging situations. In addition to physical We know that safety leadership is essential to embedding health and safety, we also recognised the importance of safety into our culture. Developing and maintaining a managing mental health during stressful times. positive safety culture means actively showing that team member and customer safety is our priority. This was While we dealt with new demand as a result of COVID-19 demonstrated in FY20, as we implemented new ways and the impacts of devastating drought and bushfires, of working and shopping for our team members and we also continued to implement other key aspects of our customers as a result of COVID-19. health and safety strategy. In FY20, safety leadership training was delivered across We encourage team members to take an active role in the Group to more than 1,800 leaders, focusing on safety workplace safety. Our five-year Safety and Wellbeing Plan culture, incident and injury management, and food safety. (which is reviewed annually and covers the next five years) provides the platform for continuous improvement by Leaders receive regular safety performance updates and focusing on three key areas: take part in management reviews to identify areas for action and improvement. Reports are also provided to the Board, the Audit and Risk Committee, the Executive Leadership SEE IT, CALL IT Team and operational leadership teams. Health and Safety Safety leadership and culture COACH IT Committees, comprising leadership representatives and team members, also meet regularly. Critical risk reduction and training Critical risk reduction During FY20, an online training program was developed providing guidance to team members on de-escalating and diffusing threatening situations. This program targeted Health and wellbeing theft, sexual harassment, aggressive customers, refusal of service and conflict situations. More than 80,000 team members also participated in The plan is supported by our Safety Management System safety refresher training in key risk areas such as manual which is integrated into Coles’ operations. This provides the handling, cleaning and hygiene, back of house dock and framework for managing the risks and hazards that come transport safety, falls from height protection and contractor with operating across a variety of retail sites, distribution management. centres, store support centres, manufacturing sites and the supply chain network. During COVID-19, team members were faced with many challenging situations, and we provided them with 16 Coles Group Limited 2020 Sustainability Report protective measures and extensive support to help them The Mind Your Health Program provided additional deal with these situations and help them stay safe. resources to team members during COVID-19. This included extending the EAP to include financial assistance advice F or more details see COVID-19 section on page 19. and providing a dedicated portal to support flexible work We also looked for opportunities to reduce risks. Boom and mental wellbeing strategies. gates and barriers, installed at 185 back of house areas at During the year, we continued to work with Hugh van Liquor stores and Supermarkets, will help address fall from Cuylenburg and The Resilience Project to deliver mental heights risk as will the ‘Solo Unload’ process introduced health strategies to build resilience and wellbeing. In FY20, at selected stores where drivers unload their own trailers. more than 3,000 leaders and team members attended Overview Additional electric pallet jacks, scissor lift operation panels seminars provided by The Resilience Project. The sessions and training were provided to support the ‘Solo Unload’ aim to build personal resilience and positive mental health. process. This was a continuation of the FY19 program which involved Measuring performance the Executive Leadership Team, State Leadership teams Sustainable communities and Store Support Centre team members. Hugh takes One of the key measurements used to track and monitor participants through his own journey and emphasises the safety performance is total recordable injury frequency importance of gratitude, empathy and mindfulness. rate (TRIFR). TRIFR measures the number of medically treated, lost time and restricted duties injuries per million Our partnership with The Resilience Project was extended hours worked by team members. TRIFR includes all injury during COVID-19 to provide educational videos and other types, including musculoskeletal injuries. resources to support team members’ mental wellbeing. This included a 21-day wellbeing journal, a wellbeing calendar TRIFR decreased from 27.8 in FY19 to 22.7 in FY20. This 18.3% and a connection challenge. For each of the three improvement reflects our focus on addressing critical risks initiatives, 110,000 packs were either sent to team members Sustainable products and driving a safety culture. We aim to achieve a year-ondirectly or made available at supermarkets, distribution year reduction in TRIFR. During the past four years, our TRIFR centres, liquor stores and Coles Express outlets. They were has decreased by 41.5%. also accessible online. Total recordable injury frequency rate (TRIFR)1,2,3 Coles also sponsored the development of ‘TRP@home’, a Number of all injury types per million hours worked free online platform that houses The Resilience Project’s 38.8 resources and materials. 34.4 Sustainable environmental practices Approximately 1,000 leaders also completed mental health 27.8 first aid training during the year. The training provides 22.7 leaders with skills to respond to a mental health crisis and create a mentally healthy workplace. Campaigns such as R U OK? Day and Movember were also supported. In FY20, Coles became a founding member of the Corporate Mental Health Alliance Australia, a businessled, expert-guided member organisation dedicated to FY17 FY18 FY19 FY20 improving mental health outcomes for all across Australia’s workplaces. Health and wellbeing Help in times of crisis We recognise that the mental health and wellbeing of team Our metrics and data members is as important as their physical wellbeing. The During the bushfire crisis, an EAP Bushfire Resource Hub Coles’ ‘Mind Your Health Program’ is built on three pillars was created to provide advice and guidance for team of ‘I am seen, I am heard, I matter’, providing programs for members. EAP services were also extended to our suppliers, personal support, line manager capability building and their families and their workers. personal mental health strategies. In response to COVID-19, we worked with Federal and State Our Employee Assistance Program (EAP) provides team Governments to develop COVID-19 hygiene practices for members and their families with free and confidential 24/7 supermarkets and distribution centres. Regular COVID-19 tailored support across a broad range of work-related and communications and team talks were provided to leaders personal issues and includes specialised support lines such and team members and shared with external regulators. as an Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander helpline, LGBTI Many new protocols were developed and implemented, helpline, Domestic Violence helpline and an Eldercare such as additional cleaning to help team members and helpline. customers stay safe. 1 TRIFR is the number of medically treated, lost time and restricted duties injuries per million hours worked 2 FY19 TRIFR restated due to maturation of data 3 FY20 TRIFR was calculated using Period 9 FY19 hours worked to reflect normalised hours over the financial year 17 Coles Group Limited 2020 Sustainability Report Supporting customers safety Supporting our communities Providing customers with a safe shopping experience is a We also raise funds for health-focused organisations such top priority. We regularly look for opportunities to improve as Redkite, FightMND, Telethon in Western Australia, Sydney safety in our stores. For example, in FY20, a new slip-resistant Children’s Hospitals Foundation, Ovarian Cancer Australia floor finish suitable for supermarkets was trialled. and Hummingbird House in Queensland and for hospitals caring for sick children across Australia through the sale of All our supermarkets are now fitted with automatic Mum’s Sause. external defibrillators (AED) used to help customers or team members during a sudden cardiac arrest situation. Specific To help promote healthy, active lifestyles and improve team members are trained and accredited in first aid so community health and wellbeing, we partner with a they can assist in medical emergencies, including using the variety of sporting organisations such as Little Athletics AED and performing CPR. Australia, Athletics Australia, Australian Football League (AFL), Rowing Australia and the Collingwood Football Club Community Foundation. Our partnerships with SecondBite and Foodbank also provide nutritious food to Australians in need. Fighting motor neurone disease Mind Your Health Reducing manual handling Coles and our customers helped As part of our Mind Your Health Milk handling and stair-climbing FightMND reach a new fundraising Program, Coles launched a trolleys and waste bin movers were record in FY20. company-wide mental health deployed in FY20 to address manual initiative for team members during handling risks. We also invested in Representing our single biggest COVID-19 through an extension of automatic wrapping machines and fundraising event ever, we helped our partnership with The Resilience roll cages. raise more than $5.2 million in six Project. weeks from the sale of beanies Pictured are team members and Coles Brand fresh pork in Under the program educational Georgina (L) and Rafael (R) from our supermarkets, as well as donations videos and other resources were store in Dianella, Western Australia, from customers and Coles’ provided to team members to help with one of the new milk handling Australian pork farmers. their mental wellbeing by focusing trolleys. on the importance of gratitude, The giant FightMND beanie visited Air lock isolators were installed empathy and mindfulness. Deniliquin, New South Wales. Pictured across our chilled and composite are Deniliquin team member Eunice, The program consisted of three, distribution centre network, Store Manager Ethan, Cobram truck 21-day health and wellbeing reducing the risk of trucks moving driver Warren and Echuca residents challenges to build positive mental while loading or unloading. We also health and wellbeing. introduced additional engineering Liam and Georgia. controls for trailer coupling. Team members were provided with For the third year in a row, we journals to record their progress. donated 10 cents from the sale of each pack of Coles Brand fresh pork Pictured is team member Cassie (L) sold during the campaign. and Meat Manager Kumar (R) from our store in Rhodes, New South Funds raised support research into Wales, reading one of the booklets. finding effective treatments and a cure for motor neurone disease (MND). 18 Coles Group Limited 2020 Sustainability Report COVID-19 Overview Throughout COVID-19 our priorities were clear: protecting Sustainable communities the safety of our team members and customers, providing Australians with access to essential goods and services, and supporting communities and people in need. Coles engaged extensively with Federal and State Temperature scans were introduced for distribution centre Sustainable products governments to respond to the challenges confronting the and Store Support Centre team members. food and grocery industry and the broader community as In addition to providing office-based team members with a result of COVID-19. We participated in the Department support to work remotely, physical and mental wellbeing of Home Affairs’ Supermarket Taskforce and its three was supported through our Mind Your Health program. retailer subgroups established to address issues including freight movement across borders, team member health We introduced social distancing measures including floor and wellbeing, and supporting vulnerable members of decals showing customers where to queue at the checkouts the community. and providing them with hand sanitiser and trolley/basket Sustainable environmental practices wipes at the front of stores. We were also members of the Victorian Food and Grocery Supply Chain COVID-19 Emergency Management Team, Stores were cleaned every night, with team members the Queensland Agriculture Co-ordination Group and the continuing to clean throughout the day, particularly highFederal Food and Grocery Sector Group. contact areas such as baskets, trolleys and checkouts. Coles played a key role in obtaining interim authorisation Access to essential goods and services from the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission to engage in coordinated non-price related activities to We implemented temporary purchase limits on some items ensure safe supply during COVID-19. to improve availability of key food and grocery items in our supermarkets and to help customers shop safely. The Safety of our teams and customers purchase limits helped us manage demand for key staple items and allowed customers to have access to the food The health, safety and wellbeing of our team members Our metrics and data and groceries they needed. and customers is always our highest priority and during the pandemic we have worked closely with Federal and Community Hour State governments to ensure the latest hygiene and safety advice was followed. Community Hour was launched in March to provide elderly and vulnerable members of the community with a safer We introduced measures including providing team shopping experience and improved access to our stores members and customers with hand sanitiser and additional to purchase essential groceries. It was then extended to cleaning products, installing clear protective screens at healthcare and emergency services workers on Tuesdays checkouts, regularly and thoroughly cleaning high-contact and Thursdays. In May, once demand for groceries and areas of our stores and introducing social distancing product availability stabilised, normal trading resumed. measures. We also increased security in stores for team member and customer safety. 19 Coles Group Limited 2020 Sustainability Report Coles Online We also worked with Australian ice cream favourite, Bulla, who experienced an overflow of the iconic movie treat During COVID-19, Coles Online Priority Service was launched ‘choc-tops’ when cinemas were forced to shut down due to support our most vulnerable customers, particularly the to COVID-19. Bulla reassigned some of its factory workers elderly and those who could not easily shop in stores. who were affected by the closure of cinemas to pack the products for sale at Coles. Our Remote Delivery Service continued to operate for customers in remote areas in Western Australia, the Northern Supporting vulnerable Australians Territory and Far North Queensland. Product restrictions were removed for customers who lived more than 100km In response to increasing demand for food relief, particularly away from their local store, allowing them to shop during pantry staples, additional food and groceries were donated Coles Community Hour and place bulk orders for pick up. to charity partners SecondBite and Foodbank each week. These donations, worth a total retail value of $7.9 million in Recruiting more team members additional support, allowed SecondBite and Foodbank to redistribute food and essentials to community charities To support customers and team members, we recruited new across Australia to feed a rising number of people in need. team members across our supermarkets and liquor stores in casual, part-time and management positions. We were We worked with the Collingwood Football Club and the proud to offer much needed employment opportunities Salvation Army to provide 2,000 convenience meals and for Australians working in industries that were impacted by other ingredients, including frozen vegetables, that were COVID-19. used for food hampers. The meals and hampers were provided to more than 150 residents from the Magpies These new team members undertook a fast-tracked Nest’s social houses including women fleeing domestic induction process so they could be on the shop floor as violence and people sleeping rough in Melbourne’s streets. soon as possible. Our unsold and inedible fruit and vegetables that could not We also hired additional customer service agents to drive be donated to food rescue organisations were donated to Coles Online delivery vans to help meet demand, and wildlife and animal shelters where possible. created jobs in our supply chain at pop-up distribution centres which increased our capacity to help move stock Supporting Indigenous communities to stores and replenish shelves faster. During COVID-19, Coles worked with Indigenous businesses Working with suppliers and local charities to deliver and donate more than 80 pallets – the equivalent of 50 tonnes – of food and We worked with suppliers to implement a number of grocery essentials to remote Indigenous communities contingency measures including rerouting some stock across the Northern Territory. through our distribution centres in selected states, providing some suppliers the opportunity to deliver products direct to Coles and organisations including the Northern Land stores and introducing pop-up distribution centres in New Council, St Vincent’s De Paul Society, Larrakia Nation South Wales, Victoria and Queensland. These distribution in Darwin, and the Central Land Council, Tangentyere centres allowed us to replenish stores as soon as possible Council and Purple House in Alice Springs, delivered for customers. care packages to more than 2,200 community members impacted by COVID-19 across the Territory. Our Liquor team extended support to local producers who had been affected by COVID-19 including partnering The deliveries provided relief to residents across Darwin with Melbourne-based brewery Hop Nation to offer and Alice Springs and supported remote and vulnerable ‘Communitinnies’, a 24-pack featuring craft beer from communities, such as Santa Teresa, Beswick, Elliott, some of Australia’s best independent brewers. Hermannsburg, Mt Liebig and Groote Eylandt, impacted by biosecurity zones, enabling them to stay on country. Extra food and grocery donations to Care packages provided to community SecondBite and Foodbank to the retail value members in the Northern Territory $7.9m 2,200 20 Coles Group Limited 2020 Sustainability Report Overview Sustainable communities Sustainable products Sustainable environmental practices Our metrics and data Throughout COVID-19, we prioritised the safety of our team members and customers, providing Australians access to essential goods and services, and supporting communities and people in need. Customers at Coles Southland (top), Brisbane mother Anna with her daughter Olivia using sanitiser in store (middle left), Salvation Army’s Major Brendan Nottle with Coles Online team member Matthew and Collingwood Football Club Director of Stadia and Community, David Emerson, with donations of 2,000 convenience meals as well as frozen vegetables and pantry items for residents in Magpie Nest’s housing program which accommodates people who have been sleeping rough on Melbourne’s streets and women fleeing domestic violence (middle right); and Coles Eastland Store Support Manager Drew delivers groceries to 97 year-old World War II veteran Des (bottom right). 21 Coles Group Limited 2020 Sustainability Report Better Together We want to make a positive difference to Australians, and we are Better Together when people feel they belong regardless of their age, disability, race, gender identity, sexual orientation, ethnicity or background. Our five Better Together pillars Better Together, Coles’ diversity and inclusion program, supports our strategy and reflects our purpose to help Australians lead healthier, happier lives. Accessibility Community and engagement We aim to make our workplaces, stores and online platforms In FY20, we continued to sponsor the A11y Camp, an annual welcoming and accessible for everyone, including team conference on accessibility and inclusion. members and customers with disabilities. We also provide Quiet Hour, a low-sensory shopping The Coles Accessibility Action Plan, developed with support experience, by making changes in-store such as reducing from the Australian Network on Disability (AND), focuses noise, lighting and distractions. At the end of FY20, this was on community and engagement, building a great place offered in 266 Coles supermarkets with an aim to offer it in to work, and products and services. It is publicly available all eligible stores nationally by December 2023. The Quiet on the Australian Human Rights Commission’s website with Hour program was suspended from March to May 2020 due the next plan currently being developed and expected to to COVID-19. launch in FY21. Coles took steps to support vulnerable customers during We participate in the AND Access and Inclusion Index, a COVID-19, including Community Hour and the Coles Online bi-annual benchmark that ranks organisations on their Priority Service. More information can be found in the inclusion of people with disability. We are striving to score section of this report on COVID-19. in the top 25th percentile by December 2023; and in FY20, Building a great place to work our ranking improved from 10th in 2017 to eighth out of 24 participating organisations. Our overall access and We encourage people with disability to consider working inclusion score has improved by 43% since 2017. with us, and we have inclusion recruitment specialists who support people with disability through the recruitment and onboarding process to enable a great transition into work at Coles. 22 Coles Group Limited 2020 Sustainability Report Overview Sustainable communities State General Manager Emma Bridges with the team at Coles’ store at Rhodes. We are proud of the fact 50.7% of our team members identify as female. We have partnered with Get Skilled Access, a specialist Gender balance Sustainable products disability, accessibility and inclusion consulting organisation. Get Skilled Access designed disability training videos for We are proud of our gender balance achievements with customer-facing team members across our Supermarket, 50.7% of team members identifying as female. Team Liquor and Express teams. The training aims to help store members have access to the same opportunities and team members increase their awareness and confidence resources to be successful in their role and have fulfilling in supporting people with disability. careers. We continue to build female representation in management roles as part of the focus on gender balance We have committed that 90% of customer-facing team across the organisation. We want to be recognised as an Sustainable environmental practices members across Supermarkets, Express and Liquor will have Employer of Choice for gender equality. completed disability confidence training by December 2023. Since launching the training in September 2019, more In FY20, the focus was on functions with traditionally less than 40,000 team members have completed the training, leadership gender balance including the technology team including 94% of service team members or 35% of customerand operations. To support increased gender balance in facing team members. these areas we: Products and services • Reviewed recruitment, talent and promotion processes; • Rolled out unconscious bias training for teams in  e won Corporate Website of the Year in the inaugural W operations, technology and talent acquisition; Australian Access Awards in December 2019. The award recognised Coles for making online content • Analysed opportunities and barriers for career accessible for people with disability. The judging progression in operations roles; and panel included people with experience of disability • Profiled role models who champion the value of gender Our metrics and data as well as specialists in the digital access field, using balance at Coles. criteria from the World Wide Web Consortium Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG). We held International Women’s Day events at the Store Support Centre and in stores in March 2020. At the events, In May 2020, a new version of the website was launched guest speakers and store managers acknowledged and with more features to assist people with disability. Our celebrated the achievements of women. website and digital assets meet WCAG 2.0 Standards, and we are working towards WCAG 2.1 Standards. We lodge annual compliance reports with the Workplace Gender Equality Agency in accordance with the We promote the National Relay Service (NRS) to make it requirements of the Workplace Gender Equality Act 2012. easier for customers and team members to contact us. The NRS is a free government phone service that assists people In FY20, Coles became a signatory to the United Nations who are deaf or have a hearing or speech impairment. Women’s Empowerment Principles, a set of principles promoting gender equality and women’s empowerment in the workplace, marketplace and wider community. The principles will support Coles’ work towards our gender balance goals and empowering women in our workplace and communities. 23 Coles Group Limited 2020 Sustainability Report Women in leadership Flexibility For leadership we define gender balance as no fewer Flexible working means working in a way that balances than 40% of any one gender, and we have a target of 40% team members’ individual needs and the requirements women in leadership by December 2023. of the role. All roles support flexible working. Flexibility can include when and where someone works but will depend Leadership positions comprise the Executive Leadership on the exact nature of the role as to what flexible working Team (ELT), General Managers (GM), team members pay options are most appropriate. grade eight and above, and supermarket store managers. Pay grade eight and above includes middle managers We have a Flexible Working Policy and a range of supporting and specialist roles. resources including a flexible working Yammer group where team members share their flexible working experiences. At the end of the year, the percentage of women in leadership increased from 33.3% in FY19 to 34.2%. In the In March 2020, we demonstrated the effectiveness of context of an expansion of the Executive Leadership Team, commitment to anywhere, anytime work by ensuring we the female proportion in this group reduced from 38.5% had the right information technology infrastructure and in FY19 to 33.3% in FY20. The percentage of women senior workplaces to create a truly flexible working culture. In executives (ELT and GMs) decreased from 40% in FY19 to one week, we established new ways of working to assist 39.4% in FY20. The increase in the overall percentage of Store Support Centre team members to effectively work women in leadership was due to increases in women in pay from home, with a significantly reduced number of team grade eight and above and supermarket store managers. members continuing to work from store support centres. Looking more broadly at women in management – a Our team members and line managers embraced the category that includes leadership as well as other key technology and tools to enable effective remote working. leader roles including Liquor store managers, Coles Express There were also great examples of innovation as team site managers, Supermarket department managers, members connected remotely including more than 4,000 and people leaders in our distribution centres – the team members viewing our monthly ‘Retail Round Up’ percentage increased from 42.6% in FY19 to 43.3% in FY20. presentations remotely, nearly 250 team members joining This latter measure reflects our annual reporting to the our first Group-wide virtual Pride event as well as regular federal government’s Workplace Gender Equality Agency. WebEx presentations and webinars for suppliers. Across all roles, our total workplace is in balance with In April 2020, Store Support Centre team members were women representing 50.7% of team members. asked about work during COVID-19, and 92% reported feeling confident that they could deliver their role and In addition in FY20, the Board set a measurable objective for were adapting quickly to changing work conditions such its composition of not less than 30% of each gender which as remote working. aligns with the recommendations of the Australian Securities Exchange (ASX) Corporate Governance Council’s Principles In our May 2020 team member engagement survey and Recommendations (4th Edition). In FY20, women (mysay), 80% of team members responded that their line represented 37.5% of the Board. manager supports them if they choose to use flexible work arrangements, indicating the success of current initiatives During FY20, diversity specialist Cognicity was engaged and our supportive culture. to review recruitment, promotion and talent processes to identify barriers to women in leadership especially in the We offer a range of policies to support team members to technology and operations areas. Four inclusive leadership balance their work and life commitments. workshops were held for executive and operations leadership teams, and unconscious bias training is being Under enterprise agreements, the majority of permanent rolled out to team members responsible for recruitment Coles team members have access to unlimited paid and selection decisions. leave to participate in emergency response. In FY20, during the bushfire emergency, we increased the paid Pay parity emergency services leave available for other permanent team members to 20 days. This is another example of Coles We are committed to achieving pay parity by December supporting our team members’ efforts in protecting our 2023 by having the right policies, practices and governance communities. in place to reach balance and offer the same opportunities to all team members to build great careers at Coles. We also offer flexible leave including paid parental leave for permanent full-time and part-time team members. In FY20, We completed our detailed pay parity review and have an 1,186 team members made use of primary parental leave overall pay parity gap of 1.5%. Plans and investment have (1,164 women and 22 men) and 759 of secondary parental been put in place to close the gap by December 2023. In leave (seven woman and 752 men). During the year, 848 addition, activities required to sustain pay parity have been team members (834 women and 14 men) returned to work identified and implementation is underway. following primary parental leave. 24 Coles Group Limited 2020 Sustainability Report Overview Sustainable communities Stan Yarramunua with the Indigenous painting he designed and completed with input from Coles Store Managers and other team members across Australia during FY20. The painting is titled “Community Spirit: a journey for Wisdom” and is displayed in the Coles Store Support Centre. Pride Indigenous engagement Sustainable products We aim to create and maintain an inclusive culture in which We are proud to be Australia’s largest private-sector our LGBTI team members feels they can be their authentic employer of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples. selves and have a safe place to work. Our Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Plan, launched We partner with Pride in Diversity, a national not-forin 2011, sets out Coles’ vision to reflect the communities in profit support program for employers to support LGBTQ which we live and work by providing more opportunities for workplace inclusion. With the support of Pride in Diversity, Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples, organisations, Sustainable environmental practices Coles continued to train more LGBTI allies, furthering our communities and customers to engage with our business. commitment to creating a safe and inclusive working The plan focuses on three key areas – employment, environment. products and services, and customers and community. In our May 2020 team member engagement survey (mysay), Underpinning the plan is a focus on cultural learning and more than 8,770 team members identified as members of respect, ensuring that as a business, we continue to value the LGBTI community and more than 39,000 as an ally of the and increase understanding and recognition of Aboriginal LGBTI community. In total more than 48,000 team members, and Torres Strait Islander cultures, histories, knowledge and or 47.5% of respondents, identified as a member of the rights. LGBTI community or an ally of the community, an increase Employment of 6.8 percentage points since April 2019. This reflects the actions we are taking to build inclusion for the LGBTI We employ more than 4,700 Aboriginal and Torres Strait community and a strong network of allies. Islander people across our stores, store support centres Our metrics and data and distribution centres, representing 3.8%1 of Coles team Coles participated in the Australian Workplace  members. This is an increase of more than 600 team Equality Index in 2019 and was recognised with a members since FY19. bronze award, demonstrating the success of our LGBTI inclusion initiatives. This is in line with our December During the year we launched our Indigenous engagement 2023 commitment to be recognised as an active and celebration document, highlighting our achievements over influential leader in LGBTI inclusion. the past 10 years and our updated 2023 Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Plan. The Plan outlines our commitment In May 2020, Coles recognised the International Day to develop the careers of our Indigenous team members Against Homophobia, Biphobia, Interphobia and and increase Indigenous team member representation in Transphobia with a business-wide event. As a result of trade, management and above store positions across the COVID-19, the event was held online with approximately Group. 250 LGBTI team members and allies registering. Celebrity guests including Curtis Stone, Dave Hughes, Benjamin Law and Courtney Roulston joined the celebration. During the event, team members shared photos through the Pride at Coles Yammer group. 1 Calculated using headcount as at 28 June 2020 25 Coles Group Limited 2020 Sustainability Report In FY20, 1.6% of Coles team members in these positions We are also supporting Indigenous business through the identified as Aboriginal and/or Torres Strait Islander. In FY19, Coles Nurture Fund. In FY20, Midwest Employment and this was 1.3%. Trade positions comprise apprentices and Economic Development Aboriginal Corporation (MEEDAC) trade qualified /skilled bakers and butchers. Management was awarded a $90,000 grant for picking and packing positions comprise store /site managers, assistant store / equipment in its new 10,000 square metre climate-controlled site managers, department managers and in-charge roles. shade house near Geraldton, Western Australia. Known as Above store positions comprise regional/area managers Innovation Park, the horticulture enterprise provides fruit and all Store Support Centre roles. and vegetables to mine sites and local supermarkets. By having picking and packing equipment on site, MEEDAC In March and April 2020, as part of our response to aims to create more employment opportunities for local COVID-19, more than 400 Indigenous team members Aboriginal people. were recruited in four weeks, providing much-needed employment opportunities at a time when many Australians Customers and communities were seeking work. An integral part of Coles’ Aboriginal and Torres Strait Indigenous suppliers Islander Plan is its focus on building mutually beneficial relationships with Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Coles has worked with Indigenous businesses in our retail community stakeholders. supply chain for more than 18 years. While our original focus was supporting Indigenous businesses to grow While we play a key role as an employer and supporter of native bush foods, our approach has expanded over the Indigenous suppliers, we also recognise and build on other years to include products and services across a range connections including providing assistance during crisis of categories. situations such as COVID-19 when we donated food and essential items and expanded our Coles Online delivery In FY20, we worked with 59 Indigenous suppliers across service to support more Indigenous communities with their categories including employment and training, property, shopping needs. food and beverage, graphic design and promotional material. FY20 was our ninth consecutive year of Indigenous More information on support for Indigenous customers and supplier growth. communities can be found in the section of this report on COVID-19. In Darwin, Coles’ supermarket at Casuarina is leading the way for Indigenous employment with three generations of Indigenous Australians at the same store. Dolly (middle) has worked at the store for more than 20 years. Her mother Ruth (right) also works at the store in the deli and her daughter Latoya began working there in 2020. 26 Coles Group Limited 2020 Sustainability Report Human rights Overview Protecting human rights is a global issue, and we understand Sustainable communities our important role in safeguarding human rights in our own operations and in our extended and complex supply chains. Commitment to human rights We understand that an effective human rights program Sustainable products requires continual improvement and is underpinned by We respect human rights, oppose slavery in all forms and strong stakeholder consultation, where feedback is sought believe everyone has the right to live and work freely. The and actioned. Coles Ethical Sourcing Policy and Supplier Requirements are designed to protect the human rights of workers in We have listened and acted on feedback provided during our supply chain and has been in place for more than a the year, including as part of the shareholder resolution decade. raised at Coles’ 2019 Annual General Meeting. Since then, significant changes have been made to strengthen our Sustainable environmental practices program, with key activities including: Developing and adopting Coles’ first Human Rights Strategy Enhancing the governance framework for Coles’ Ethical Sourcing Program Obtaining Board endorsement for an ethical sourcing risk appetite statement including key risk indicators to measure performance against the approved appetite Redesigning the organisational structure of the ethical sourcing team including significantly increasing the number of dedicated ethical sourcing team members and team members with specialised skills, as well as accountability moving to our Group Risk and Compliance function Our metrics and data Launching a third-party risk management framework (including strengthening due diligence in key areas) for suppliers of goods not for resale (GNFR), utilising the technology platform SAP Ariba Launching online training covering modern slavery and ethical sourcing for team members in buying and technical roles Accepting Fair Farms certification as part of Coles Ethical Sourcing Program to provide further choice for Australian fresh produce suppliers to demonstrate compliance with Coles’ sourcing requirements Regularly engaging with unions, from attendance at roundtables and meetings with workers on specific issues and areas of grievance, to forming the Ethical Retail Supply Chain Accord in partnership with the Shop, Distributive and Allied Employees Association (SDA), the Transport Workers Union (TWU) and the Australian Workers Union (AWU), as well as attending farm worker education sessions in partnership with industry and union Becoming a signatory to the United Nations Women’s Empowerment Principles 27 Coles Group Limited 2020 Sustainability Report Our Human Rights Strategy As part of developing the strategy, six salient human rights risks were identified for focus and action: During the year, and with the support of independent human rights experts, a Company-wide Human Rights Labour rights Right to health and safety Strategy was developed. This involved a review of business and stakeholder needs and a review of existing policies, as Right to equality and freedom from discrimination well as team member interviews and group workshops. The strategy was endorsed by the Board in March 2020. Indigenous rights Cultural rights Our strategy has six pillars to help us address these risks. Right to dignity and justice Beyond compliance Work culture Trusted to go beyond compliance to prevent harm in A work culture of protecting people from harm and our value chain harassment • Enhanced systems and controls, expanded across • Harm identified with worker participation business units of the Group and our broader supply • Collaborative initiatives with unions chain and partners • Formalised training, guidance and monitoring • Extended and revised Ethical Sourcing Program for our team members and suppliers across the Group • Increased resources to build supplier capability • Assessment of human rights risks across on labour standards, human rights, health, Coles’ value chain safety and environment People and technology Governance Put people at the centre of technology and • Regular review of salient human rights risks, innovation opportunities strategy and commitments • Defined accountabilities • Integrated human rights and social impact assessments • Timely and transparent reporting • ‘Human rights by design’ in technology initiatives • Enhanced monitoring • Use of advanced technology to strengthen • Cross functional Human Rights Steering Committee safety systems • Risk-based program Remediation Stakeholder Engagement • Review coverage and effectiveness of existing • Transparency as a key program attribute including grievance mechanisms public reporting of substantiated human rights impacts • Consult with affected stakeholders • Collaboration with unions, non-government • Capability building within our teams to strengthen organisations, government and suppliers, including ability to identify and address human rights on grievance management principles and industry impacts initiatives • Active participation in industry reporting benchmarks 28 Coles Group Limited 2020 Sustainability Report The strategy also sets out our commitments in the following areas: • Ensuring human rights are understood, respected and upheld in accordance with internationally recognised human rights principles • Respecting the human rights of workers throughout our supply chain. We expect our partners and everyone in our supply chain to have the same commitment • Striving to eliminate the potential for labour and human rights issues in our supply chains and operations, highlighting areas of risk and ensuring we make responsible buying decisions • Robust governance of human rights in our operations and our supply chain Overview • Listening to the experiences of the most vulnerable by encouraging dialogue and consultation, including a key focus Sustainable communities on worker voice and engaging with our stakeholders • Maturing our operational-level grievance mechanisms to ensure they are accessible, predictable, equitable, transparent, rights compatible, legitimate and a source of continuous improvement • Recognising the important role played by human rights defenders and being responsive to our stakeholders, Coles supports and welcomes discussion on challenges and our opportunities to improve our respect for human rights • Creating experiences for our customers that value their unique needs and circumstances Sustainable products • Serving our customers safely and without discrimination, respecting their privacy and prioritising accessibility for all Sustainable environmental practices Our metrics and data Patane Produce owners Pennie and Michael Patane began supplying carrots to Coles in 2009 and now with their children Sam, Jessie and Lauren all involved, the family business supplies onions, potatoes and broccoli. Patane Produce is now certified with the Fair Farms Certification Program, which is an industry-led initiative aimed at fostering fair and responsible employment practices in Australian horticulture. Fair Farms was developed and implemented by Growcom, peak industry body for horticulture in Queensland, with support from the Fair Work Ombudsman, the Federal Department of Agriculture and AUSVEG. Pennie is pictured with her two sons. 29 Coles Group Limited 2020 Sustainability Report Our Program in action Figure 1 – Audits of Coles’ suppliers by financial year2 Our Human Rights Strategy includes Coles’ Ethical Sourcing 442 Policy and Ethical Sourcing Supplier Requirements, which 376 382 set out expectations for suppliers regarding compliance with labour rights, human rights, environment, health and safety, and business integrity. Compliance with the policy and requirements is built into standard trading terms and conditions, and we expect that suppliers apply similar rigour in their own supply chain. Our Ethical Sourcing Program targets the areas of our supply chain that have a higher risk of modern slavery or human FY18 FY19 FY20 rights issues being present. We actively manage these Australian Overseas risks through our Ethical Sourcing Program, which applies a higher level of due diligence and monitoring where increased risks (such as the use or labour hire or migrant Figure 2 – FY20 non-conformances by category3 workers) are present and where we have the most leverage to facilitate positive change. During the year, we expanded our coverage to include 9% Health, safety and hygiene 6% Own Brand products sold in Coles Express and developed Working hours the foundation to expand the program into Liquor and 6% Environment GNFR. Rollout in Coles Liquor is scheduled for completion in 7% 50% the first half of FY21, and GNFR suppliers will be risk assessed Wages at contract renewal and onboarded to the program where Management systems ethical sourcing risk is identified as high. 21% Other At the end of FY20, there were 2,014 suppliers to Coles Supermarkets and Coles Express participating in our program. This represents 93% of in-scope suppliers.1 Ethical Sourcing Program coverage BUSINESS AREA CATEGORY OF GOODS PRODUCTION TIER Supermarkets and Own Brand • Direct vendors of final product (Tier 1) Express • Packing / manufacturing to final retail form (Tier 2) Fresh Produce (unprocessed fruit, • Direct vendors of final product (Tier 1) vegetables and flowers) – including • Packing / manufacturing to final retail form (Tier 2)4 those bearing a proprietary brand label Liquor5 Own Brand, Export • Direct vendors of final product (Tier 1) Bottling sites (Tier 2) Exclusive • Direct vendors of final product (Tier 1) • Bottling sites (Tier 2) GNFR5 Contracted suppliers of high-risk goods/ • Direct vendors of final product / service (Tier 1) services (including but not limited to • Subcontractors (Tier 2) – selected circumstances cleaning, trolley collection, security, transport, construction and catalogue distribution) Contracted suppliers with operations in high-risk countries 1 Participating suppliers are those that had registered on Sedex, had completed at least 95% of a Sedex assessment questionnaire as at 30 June 2020 and were active (i.e. suppliers which Coles had current, pending or ongoing plans to order from). We do not expect 100% participation at any one time due to suppliers entering and leaving our supply chain. 2 FY18 and FY19 numbers have been updated from figures disclosed in our 2019 Sustainability Report to include all audits conducted during these years (not a subset of audits) and to state the FY in which the audit occurred. 3 “Other” includes the following categories ‘regular employment’, ‘discipline/grievance’, ‘business ethics’, ‘children and young workers’, ‘entitlement to work’, ‘freedom of association’, ‘discrimination’, ‘employment freely chosen’, and ‘subcontracting / homeworking’. 4 Farms which pack produce on-site are captured by the scope of the Ethical Sourcing Program. In cases where the farm harvests produce then sends it to a packhouse, only the packhouse and supplier of final product are on the program. 5 In FY20 Coles expanded its Ethical Sourcing Program coverage to include Liquor and GNFR. As they were not in-scope for the program for the whole of FY20, they are not included in the performance metrics in this section. 30 Coles Group Limited 2020 Sustainability Report Coles has set defined timelines by which new suppliers Our governance structure for human rights management must register and complete assessment questionnaires, ensures accountability for human rights protection in our and suppliers who do not meet these timelines without supply chain is held across the organisation. reasonable cause may face suspension of orders. Where Our Board has direct oversight of the program and receives legitimate reasons are provided for delay, Coles may program updates at each scheduled Board meeting, grant an extension. Such reasons may include operational including performance of the program according to impacts as a result of COVID-19 or Sedex system-related appetite and key risk indicators. Since December 2019, issues. ethical sourcing has been a standing agenda item for Board Based on risk, selected suppliers on our program are required meetings with a report on program status and performance Overview to have an ethical audit. While most audits are arranged by tabled at each meeting. In January 2020, a risk deep dive the supplier, Coles may also conduct unannounced or semi on the Ethical Sourcing Program was provided to the Board. announced audits of suppliers. During the year, 4421 ethical Ethical sourcing is identified as a material risk for the Group audits were conducted on Coles Own Brand Supermarkets and the Audit and Risk Committee receives updates on the and Express suppliers. Sustainable communities program as part of Group Risk updates. Coles uses a variety of methods to assess risk in the supply Operationally, the Chief Legal & Safety Officer oversees chain. Sedex provides a risk rating based on a combination the Ethical Sourcing Program and the Chief Operating of country risk, commodity risk, and the answers to a Officer, Chief Executive Commercial & Express, and Chief supplier assessment questionnaire. Coles also assesses risk Executive Liquor oversee procurement of goods and and will consider additional risk drivers including history of services across the Group and compliance with ethical compliance or complaints when assessing risk and setting sourcing requirements during procurement. audit plans. A Human Rights Steering Committee oversees our Human Coles closely monitors non-conformances identified in Sustainable products Rights Strategy and approach. The Human Rights Steering ethical sourcing audits of our suppliers uploaded by auditors Committee is a management committee that considers, into Sedex. Our focus is on findings which are rated critical reviews and seeks to ensure that the governance protocols (including critical and business critical) and major. During in place across the various areas of the business that FY20, 1,328 non-conformances uploaded by auditors into impact human rights are operating effectively. The role of Sedex were classified as major or higher by the auditor. Of the committee also extends to reviewing the application of these, 868 were remediated by the supplier and closed by relevant legislative and regulatory requirements concerning the auditor on the Sedex platform during FY20, and a further human rights, such as the reporting requirement under 367 non-conformances were closed from audits which Sustainable environmental practices the federal government’s Modern Slavery Act 2018. The occurred in prior years. committee is chaired by Coles’ Chief Legal & Safety COVID-19 presented substantial challenges in obtaining Officer with members from across the business, including official closure of non-conformances where auditor Legal, Compliance, People and Culture, Merchandise, availability or ability to exercise auditing related duties was Procurement, Sustainability, Corporate Affairs and restricted due to the pandemic. Operations/ Supply Chain. The committee met five times during the reporting period. Increasing capability and governance Working with stakeholders This year we reviewed our internal capability to deliver the Human Rights Strategy and reassessed internal In FY20, Coles joined with three major unions to promote organisational design for management of human rights, ethical employment practices and treatment of workers moving accountability for the Ethical Sourcing Program to throughout the Australian horticulture supply chain. our Group Risk and Compliance function. This has provided Our metrics and data In a first for the Australian retail sector, Coles worked more opportunity to leverage a whole-of-business with unions representing workers from every stage of the approach to protecting human rights throughout the Australian fresh produce supply chain to develop the Coles extended supply chain. Ethical Retail Supply Chain Accord. This organisational change facilitated the rollout of the The Accord, signed by Coles and SDA, the TWU and the program to Express Own Brand suppliers and the planning AWU, aims to achieve a safe, sustainable, ethical and for rollout to Liquor Own Brand suppliers and selected GNFR fair retail supply chain for workers regardless of their suppliers. It also allowed us to align the program with our employment status, citizenship or visa status. central governance compliance and risk programs. Members of the Accord engage regularly and are working We also significantly increased resources in our ethical on initiatives to embed ethical principles in the broader sourcing team and added new skillsets and roles. This retail supply chain, commissioning research on the social included recruiting an in-house social compliance and economic benefits of ethical sourcing, as well as auditor (certified by the Association of Professional Social liaising on potential regulatory or legislative reforms on Compliance Auditors), a dedicated Program Governance workers’ rights, including in relation to labour hire providers. and Reporting Manager and a Group Ethical Sourcing Manager. 1 This number only includes audits for suppliers who were active at the closure of FY20. Audits of suppliers who were inactive in the system prior to the closure of FY20 have not been counted. 31 Coles Group Limited 2020 Sustainability Report Coles is a member of the Horticulture Industry Reference In FY20, 19 complaints were received against Coles’ Group, formed following the Fair Work Ombudsman’s 2018 suppliers through these various channels. Allegations raised Harvest Trail Inquiry, which supports a multi-stakeholder were investigated and, for those complaints substantiated, approach to addressing labour compliance across the we have overseen remediation or are actively working with horticulture industry. our suppliers to develop and implement corrective action plans to close the findings. The group met quarterly and included participants from industry, government, unions, retail, labour hire organisations While we work with suppliers to remediate wherever possible, and suppliers. It provided a platform to share information to where lack of commitment or failure to demonstrate help address labour compliance issues, including working compliance with our Ethical Sourcing Program is evident, conditions and wages, within horticulture supply chains. Coles reserves the right to cease supply. This occurred three times in FY20, where supply was ceased in line with our During the year Coles’ team members also met with the policy and supplier requirements. UWU. Our work with the UWU has been multi-faceted and included discussions about specific concerns within the Introducing Fair Farms supply chain, to broader discussions regarding risks to During FY20, Fair Farms Certification was introduced into workers in the COVID-19 environment and attendance at the Ethical Sourcing Program. Australian fresh produce a joint worker education session in the Sunraysia district of suppliers to Coles can now become certified with Fair Victoria and another in Elizabeth, South Australia. Farms to satisfy the requirements of the program. Increasing transparency Aimed at addressing problems around workplace The Human Rights section of the Group’s website was compliance and exploitation within the Australian refreshed during the year, with updated information on our horticulture industry, Fair Farms provides support and training Human Rights Strategy and more detailed content about for farm employers on fair employment practices and a our Ethical Sourcing Program. We acknowledge the need pathway to independent third-party audit and certification. to protect commercially sensitive information about our Horticulture industry body Growcom developed the Fair suppliers and their workers, while being transparent with our Farms Certification Program with support from the Fair Work customers and shareholders. Ombudsman, the Federal Department of Agriculture and Our refreshed website includes a range of information to AUSVEG. Coles contributed to the original design of the Fair give stakeholders a better understanding of our supply Farms Standard. chain practices. It includes a table of countries from where Own Brand products are sourced by product category, COVID-19 and a table of anonymised complaints received against During COVID-19, our strategy continued to be implemented Coles’ suppliers. The names and locations of suppliers who although government and travel restrictions meant that manufacture ‘Mix’, our Own Brand apparel range, are also many audits and follow up audits, both our own and those published. conducted by third party providers, could not take place as scheduled. As COVID-19 restrictions in many Australian In September 2020, Coles plans to publish its first Modern and overseas jurisdictions began to ease, audit activity reSlavery Statement as required by the Modern Slavery Act. commenced. The statement sets out detailed information about risks of modern slavery practices in our operations and supply Notwithstanding the impact on audits, we continued to chains, and the actions taken to assess and address those require compliance with our Ethical Sourcing Program with risks. a focus on suppliers completing assessment questionnaires and closing audit non-conformances where auditor Complaints availability allowed. We have several avenues open to team members and We continue to work with unions to understand the workers in our supply chain to raise human rights-related challenges faced by workers in the extended supply chain complaints. The Whistleblower Policy was updated this as a result of COVID-19. year in line with new legislative requirements. It encourages reporting of any suspected unethical, illegal, fraudulent or As part of Coles’ response to COVID-19, and following undesirable conduct, including suspected adverse impacts discussions with unions, communication was sent to Own on people, communities or the environment. The policy Brand and proprietary suppliers in May to reinforce our provides various channels for complaints or concerns to expectations on worker safety and compliance with be raised. These include the Coles Wages and Conditions the Ethical Sourcing Policy. We also liaised with various Hotline, Coles STOPline and Coles’ Protected Disclosure government bodies to discuss potential risks to workers in Officers. In support of our supply chain’s diverse workforce, the extended supply chain, particularly the agricultural this year information on our Wages and Conditions Hotline sector, as a result of COVID-19. was made available in several languages. More information on Coles Human Rights strategy can be found at colesgroup.com.au 32 Coles Group Limited 2020 Sustainability Report Supporting Australian farmers and suppliers Overview We are committed to building strong and collaborative Sustainable communities relationships with Australian farmers, producers and suppliers. Their hard work and dedication enables us to provide high-quality products to our customers. The importance of having strong relationships within our We support and comply with the country of origin labelling Sustainable products supply chain was never more evident than in FY20. By requirements which makes it easier for customers to identify working together we were able to provide our customers a product’s source. with essential food and groceries during drought, bushfires and then COVID-19. Partnership approach We work hard to build strong, collaborative and where To meet the challenge of unprecedented customer demand possible, long term relationships with our suppliers. during COVID-19, Coles worked closely with suppliers and supply chain partners to ensure stock was delivered to In addition to complying with the Grocery Code of Sustainable environmental practices stores as quickly as possible, including the opening of popConduct, the Coles Supplier Charter has been in place up distribution centres in New South Wales, Victoria and since 2014 and provides Coles commitment to: Queensland. • Deal with our merchandise suppliers in good faith, with Australian farmers transparent grocery supply agreements; Coles Supermarkets has an Australian-first sourcing policy • Provide product and shelf ranging principles; to provide our customers with quality Australian-grown fresh • Pay in full and on time; and produce as a first priority. In FY20, 96% of fresh produce, by • Provide our suppliers with access to an independent volume, was sourced from our supply partners from all over dispute resolution model which includes the ability for Australia, excluding floral, nuts, dried fruit, sauces, dressings suppliers to raise concerns with the Hon. Jeffrey Kennett and packaged salads. In FY20, 100% of fresh lamb, pork, who is the independent Arbiter. chicken, beef, milk and eggs and 100% of Own Brand frozen vegetables were Australian grown. Our metrics and data During the year we entered into new supplier relationships including with Tasmanian producers of Graze lamb, a new Coles is proud to partner with our Australian fresh produce range of grass-fed lamb, and with dairy farmers in Victoria growers to provide our customers with great quality and the New South Wales south coast. Australian fruit and vegetables and we are committed to doing so wherever possible. There are some situations Our partnership with fresh produce supplier Blazing Saddles where fresh produce cannot be sourced from Australia, based in Mariginiup, Western Australia, has enabled the and we will continue to work closely with our growers to chilli farm to invest in hot-house farming technology and try and find solutions to these challenges. Instances where increase its supply capacity. Coles may import fresh produce include when: customers want a product that is only available from an overseas In FY20, we entered into a 6.5 year extension of our existing grower (such as drinking coconuts); supply is limited during agreement with Harvey Beef, based in Western Australia. parts of the year and there is customer demand (such as We also have 10-year agreements with Laurent which supplies blueberries in summer and cherries in winter); and when our artisan-style stone-baked sourdough bread across Australia, customers want an affordable alternative (such as garlic) TOP Pork farming families, tomato producer Sundrop Farms, where Coles will endeavour to offer both an Australian and and an eight-year agreement with Manbulloo Mangoes. imported product to improve customer choice. 33 Coles Group Limited 2020 Sustainability Report 20 19 Grain growers Peter and Renee Burke were awarded The Weekly Times Coles 2019 Farmer of the Year for their innovative approach in the face of drought and reduced water availability in the Riverina, New South Wales. Instead of buying permanent water, they lease it and have been able to grow oats, barley and rice crops at a time when commodity prices were high. The Burkes are also early adopters of variable-rate fertilising and GPS technology, and collect as much crop-performance information as they can. 34 Coles Group Limited 2020 Sustainability Report Overview Sustainable communities The Hemphill family from Jinchilla Ag at Kyabram were among a number of dairy farmers in Victoria and on the south coast of New South Wales who signed on as direct suppliers of milk to Coles in FY20. Peter Hemphill is pictured here with his grandchildren. Coles also has a long-term contract with Simplot to supply Recognising farmers and suppliers Sustainable products Australian-grown frozen vegetables. Strong relationships with farmers and suppliers are integral Sustainable dairy farming to our success, and the Coles Supplier Awards celebrate their hard work, innovation and quality. In September In July 2020, Coles expanded its direct sourcing of Own 2019, more than 1,000 people attended an event at the Brand fresh milk to dairy farmers in South Australia which will Melbourne Exhibition and Convention Centre, with suppliers be followed by Western Australia in October 2020. This direct recognised across 14 award categories. Among the winners milk sourcing model follows a successful rollout in Victoria was Coles’ soft plastics recycling partner, REDcycle, which and the New South Wales south coast from July 2019. Sustainable environmental practices won Sustainability Supplier of the Year. The sourcing model offers transparent farm-gate prices Ahead of the Supplier Awards, a supplier forum was held enabling farmers to more confidently plan for their future where an overview of Coles’ strategy and future plans was through the choice of one, two or three-year contracts. presented. During FY20, Coles sourced milk from 34 farms and it Coles also proudly supported innovation and excellence is anticipated that this will expand to more than 60 by in Australian farming by sponsoring The Weekly Times Coles January 2021. Our farms include fourth and fifth generation Farmer of the Year Awards for the eighth consecutive year. dairy farming families as well as sharefarmers both large The awards, held in February 2020 at the Melbourne Cricket and small. Ground, recognised the outstanding work of farmers The Coles Sustainable Dairy Development Group (CSDDG) across Australia with winners from categories including has been established to support the direct milk sourcing horticulture, sheep, beef, dairy and innovation. Our metrics and data model. The purpose of the CSDDG is for Coles and its dairy We extended our employee assistance program to support farmers to work together to enhance sustainable farming farmers and suppliers during the bushfires. practices. Farmers participate in the CSDDG through regional meetings which occur throughout the year. Coles small supplier payment scheme The CSDDG, supported by investment from Coles, Coles supports our suppliers so they can grow their business has delivered on-farm initiatives including purchasing alongside us and continue to deliver innovation, great defibrillators, implementing animal health-care technology products and services. trials and providing hand sanitiser in response to COVID-19. We are a signatory to the Business Council of Australia’s Coles provided exceptional circumstance payments Australian Supplier Payment Code effective from 1 July to dairy farmers in the direct sourcing program in FY20 2020. As a signatory to the Code, our commitment includes of $2.6 million to support them through extraordinary paying eligible small business suppliers within 30 days, conditions such as drought and bushfires. paying suppliers on time, and working with small business suppliers to adopt electronic trading. 35 Coles Group Limited 2020 Sustainability Report We want to win together with Australian producers to be the most sustainable supermarket in Australia. By helping to fund initiatives that increase recycling, reduce water use, increase local production and enhance the environment, we will drive generational sustainability in Australia. In April 2015, Coles launched the $50 million Nurture Fund Other grant recipients included: to help small to medium-sized businesses to innovate and • The Mount Warning Beverage Company – better known grow. Since then, more than 60 small and medium sized for its two brands, Yaru Water and Mount Warning businesses across Australia have received support to help Mineral Water, from the Tweed Valley in New South them develop new and innovative products, technologies Wales – will install new equipment to produce a range and processes. of native botanical tonic waters made using Indigenous In FY20, Coles announced it would provide more than flavours. $3.6 million in grants from the Coles Nurture Fund to 15 • Family dairy farming business Jinchilla Ag will install an onproducers who are planning to improve sustainability, farm effluent management system for its farm at Kyabram, rebuild after bushfires and produce more Australian-made Victoria. It will allow the Hemphill family to separate solid food and beverages. and liquid material, with the solid material used as crop We also announced a donation of $1 million from the and pasture fertiliser and the liquid portion recycled daily Coles Nurture Fund to the Country Women’s Association’s to flush and clean the feed shed. Drought Appeal to provide drought-affected farming • Black River Produce will plant more asparagus and families with financial support to pay household expenses install equipment to process the produce on their farm such as medical, energy and grocery bills. west of Townsville, Queensland, enabling them to produce Australian-grown asparagus during periods Among the 15 businesses to receive a Coles Nurture Fund when it is often imported. grant in FY20 was recycling manufacturer Plastic Forests from Albury, New South Wales, which will receive a $300,000 • Beechworth Honey will increase productivity and cost grant to manufacture fence posts from recycled plastic. efficiencies at its honey packing facility in Corowa, This will provide an end-to-end solution for agricultural New South Wales, by installing robotic technology to plastic such as silage wrap and another recycling option streamline its operations. for soft plastics collected at Coles by REDcycle. • Darren and Mark Todaro from Todaro Farms at Cora Lynn, Victoria, will increase yields and quality by Two farming families in New South Wales – the McKay and installing frost protection fleece and relocatable hail Clarke families – both of whom were significantly impacted netting over their vegetables. by bushfires near Tumbarumba in January 2020, will receive grants to rebuild fencing using the recycled plastic posts Other recipients are pictured on the next page with more made by Plastic Forests. On average, approximately 250 information included in the Indigenous engagement and pieces of soft plastic and five silage bale wraps will be used climate change sections of this report. to manufacture each of the plastic fence posts. National Farmers Federation CEO Tony Mahar welcomed Melbourne-based sustainability organisation RED Group, Coles’ support for innovative farmers. “It’s inspiring to see which provides REDcycle soft plastic recycling in Coles that from the challenges of drought and bushfires has supermarkets, received a $430,000 grant to purchase new come such ingenuity – like the development of fence processing technology and three new vehicles to increase posts from silage waste, the installation of cutting-edge collection and recycling of soft plastic across Australia. robotic technology and new high-efficiency irrigation systems,” he said. 36 Coles Group Limited 2020 Sustainability Report Overview Sustainable communities Sustainable products Sustainable environmental practices Our metrics and data In FY20, Coles awarded more than $3.6 million in grants to producers to support innovation and sustainability across the food and grocery sector. Tom and Vickie Tyson from Lachlan Valley Grazing operate the solar system which is powering new irrigation equipment purchased with a grant from the Coles Nurture Fund (top left). Adrian Egan from MEEDAC at the climate-controlled shade house where the company will install new packing and picking equipment thanks to a grant from the Coles Nurture Fund (top right). The Todaro family at Cora Lynn south east of Melbourne will use a Coles Nurture Fund grant to increase yields and quality by installing frost protection fleece and relocatable hail netting over their vegetables (middle left). Natalie Bell and Paul Lloyd from Mountain Blue Farms in Lismore, New South Wales, have used financial support from the Coles Nurture Fund to grow new varieties of Eureka blueberries hydroponically in pots under protective tunnels (middle right). The Olsen family in West Gippsland, Victoria, will dramatically increase the production of sustainable farming equipment thanks to a grant from the Coles Nurture Fund. The Soilkee Renovator is a ground-breaking pasture cropping system that improves soil structure and water and nutrient retention (bottom). 37 Coles Group Limited 2020 Sustainability Report Community and charity partners By building strong, resilient communities we aim to help Australians to lead healthier, happier lives. In FY20, Coles’ total community support was more than $139 million, which included direct community support of more than $125 million with an additional $14 million contributed by customers, team members and suppliers. Community investments $177K In-kind donations (direct) $106.3 million of which the most significant $3.1M component is food donated to our food rescue partners SecondBite $14.5M and Foodbank. In-kind don $15.5M Cash (direc SecondBite and Foodbank provide us with the volume of food donated and we then determine a monetary value by applying a retail value to the goods Manageme donated. Time (direct $106.3M Cash (direct) $15.5 million this includes donations through the sale of Customer a $177K contribution community bags provided to community partners including Guide Dogs Australia and Clean Up Australia, and through the $3.1M sale of products such as Mum’s Sause, which raises money to help sick children in$14.5M hospitals, and In-kind donations (direct) specially marked Own Brand bread which raises money for Redkite. It also $15.5M Cash (direct) includes cash donations such as those provided to the Red Cross’ bushfire appeal and to SecondBite. Management costs (direct) Time (direct) Management costs (direct) $3.1 million which include team member time $106.3M and salaries to deliver our community programs. Customer and team member contributions (indirect) Time (direct) $177K for team members volunteering during work hours for organisation such as SecondBite, Foodbank and the Magpies Nest. Customer, supplier and team member contributions (indirect) $14.5 million from activities including in-store fundraising. Coles references the London Community support Benchmarking Group’s (LBG) framework for reporting community contributions. The $139m 21% LBG also review our calculation methodology and data. (21% increase compared with FY19) 38 Coles Group Limited 2020 Sustainability Report Overview Sustainable communities Coles’ support for national charity, Redkite, helps families across Australia who are impacted by cancer. When Sophie (pictured here with her mother Christine) was diagnosed at six years of age with acute lymphoblastic leukaemia in Newcastle, Redkite supported the family with support from a social worker in hospital, music therapy and an education grant for tutoring. Feeding Australians in need SecondBite CEO Jim Mullan said the organisation’s Sustainable products national partnership with Coles is instrumental in We set ourselves a target to provide the equivalent of delivering more food to those in need. 100 million meals to people in need by 2020. In FY20, we met that milestone and by the end of FY20 we had donated the “It’s incredible to see how our partnership with Coles has equivalent of 116 million meals to SecondBite since 2011 and grown over the years and the impact this has had on the equivalent of 32 million meals to Foodbank since 2003.1 some of the most vulnerable people in our community,” The majority of this was collected from our supermarkets Mr Mullan said. and distribution centres but also includes bulk donations to “Many shoppers wouldn’t be aware of the work that Sustainable environmental practices both charities. goes on behind the scenes to ensure edible unsold In FY20, we donated the equivalent of 31 million meals food ends up on the plates of those in need, rather than to SecondBite and the equivalent of two million meals to in landfill. We are proud to work with an organisation Foodbank. that is a clear leader with respect to both its social and environmental responsibilities.” SecondBite collects edible, unsold food from our supermarkets and our fresh produce distribution centres and Supporting families through Redkite distributes it to more than 1,300 community food programs Coles has partnered with national children’s cancer supporting Australians in need. Foodbank collects food from charity Redkite since 2013. Our partnership has supported our grocery distribution centres supporting approximately counselling services, financial assistance, information 2,400 agencies and community groups. resources, education and career support, scholarships and We also raise funds for SecondBite through the sale of grants to children with cancer and their families. Our metrics and data $2 donation cards and reusable shopping bags. Our In FY20, the total raised for Redkite was more than $3.9 million, annual Winter Appeal raised nearly $1 million in June 2020 with Coles contributing $2.8 million and our customers and and Coles Liquor raised more than $540,000 in its annual team members $1.1 million. Christmas appeal. Across all fundraising activities, more than $2.2 million was raised for SecondBite in FY20. Our contribution includes funds raised through bread sales. Coles donates five cents from the sale of every loaf In addition to food collection from our supermarkets and of specially marked Own Brand bread which has raised distribution centres, this year food and groceries to a retail $22.5 million over the past six years. value of $7.9 million were provided to SecondBite and Foodbank in response to increasing demand for food relief Other fundraising includes $2 donation cards, team as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. member fundraising and sales of hot cross buns and Christmas cookies. This takes the total raised for Redkite to $38 million since 2013. 1 SecondBite uses the conversion of total kilograms donated multiplied by two to determine equivalent meals. Foodbank uses the conversion of total kilograms donated divided by 0.555 to determine equivalent meals. 39 Coles Group Limited 2020 Sustainability Report Supporting healthy communities Coles community bags In July 2019, Coles launched a new pasta sauce to raise Coles has now raised nearly $4 million to help schools, funds to help sick children in hospitals across Australia. sporting clubs, disadvantaged people and the environment Fifty cents from the sale of every jar of Mum’s Sause goes through the sale of reusable bags. to Curing Homesickness, a fundraising initiative that aims We stopped providing lightweight, single-use plastic bags to help sick children get home sooner or make their stay in in our supermarkets in mid-2018, resulting in the removal of hospital easier. There are now three sauces in the range, 1.7 billion bags each year. Our bag offer now includes a and sales raised more than $550,000 in FY20. colourful range of reusable shopping bags designed by We also support a range of state and local initiatives for Australian school children. health-focused organisations. In FY20 this support helped Ten percent of sales of these community bags support raise more than $680,000 for Telethon in Western Australia, Clean Up Australia, Little Athletics, SecondBite, Guide Dogs more than $450,000 for Hummingbird House in Queensland Australia, Aspect schools and the Collingwood Football and more than $300,000 for the Sydney Children’s Hospital Club Community Foundation. Foundation in New South Wales. Since June 2018 more than $3.9 million has been raised Coles and our customers helped FightMND reach a through the sale of community bags which at the end of new fundraising record in FY20. Representing our single FY20 had provided: biggest fundraising event ever, we helped raise more than $5.2 million in six weeks from the sale of FightMND beanies and Own Brand fresh pork in supermarkets, as well The equivalent of 3.6 million meals for SecondBite as donations from customers and Coles’ Australian pork farmers. For the third year in a row, we donated 10 cents Support to raise and train 18 life-changing guide from the sale of each pack of Own Brand fresh pork sold dogs for Guide Dogs Australia during the campaign. The money raised supports research into finding effective New equipment for 316 Little Athletics Centres treatments and a cure for Motor Neurone Disease (MND). $500,000 for Clean Up Australia Our partnership with the Collingwood Football Club’s Community Foundation is helping fight homelessness, assist people facing disadvantage and support women’s sport More than $230,000 for Aspect schools and disability programs. 25,000 for the Collingwood Football Club More information about our support of healthy communities Community Foundation can be found on pages 49 to 51 of this report. Image was supplied for this page, but copy is no longer included. Volunteer Sam hands over food donations to SecondBite driver Andrew. 40 Coles Group Limited 2020 Sustainability Report Overview Sustainable communities Coles team member and Army Reservist Lieutenant Rory McDonald with Coles Bakery Manager Amber and Bravery Trust CEO Belinda Wilson at Coles Victoria Gardens in Melbourne for the launch of our fundraising campaign for Bravery Trust. In just five days leading up to and following ANZAC Day, Coles raised more than $232,000 for Bravery Trust to support current and former members of the Australian Defence Force. Supporting Australian veterans their order. The items were used to make Christmas food Sustainable products boxes for people in need. Coles Online team members In the lead up to and on the weekend of Anzac Day in April picked and packed 1,000 boxes, and the team wrote their 2020, $232,000 was raised in just five days for Bravery Trust own personal messages on the boxes as a way of showing which supports former and current Australian service men their support. and women with medical fees, food vouchers, energy bills and education costs. Coles donated 50 cents from every Through our partnership with the Collingwood Football pack of Own Brand cookies and biscuits and collected Club’s Community Foundation, more than 200 Coles customer donations in-store. team members volunteered at the Magpie Nest Café in Sustainable environmental practices Melbourne to serve meals to those in need. The Magpie Guide Dogs collections Nest Café, run in partnership with the Salvation Army 614 Team, serves more than 3,000 free meals each week to More than $1.2 million raised for Guide Dogs through people in need in Melbourne. collection dogs at the front of Coles stores, the sale of reusable bags and additional fundraising activities. In total, Movember is the leading charity addressing some of the the collection dogs at Coles have now raised more than biggest health issues faced by men: prostate cancer, $10 million for Guide Dogs since 1982. testicular cancer, and mental health and suicide prevention. To raise funds for Movember, 301 Coles team members from Team member volunteering across Coles took part in the 2019 Movember campaign. In FY20, approximately 100 team members volunteered In total, more than $118,000 was raised. The Coles Liquor at SecondBite to help sort donated food and prepare team also provided support with a 50 cent donation from deliveries, and with Foodbank to pick and pack orders for the sale of wine from the Choosy Beggars range, adding an Our metrics and data its charity partners. additional $93,000 to our donation total. Coles Online again offered customers the opportunity to More information on our community activities can be help people in need by contributing to special SecondBite found in the sections on Health, safety and inclusion; Better Christmas Donation Boxes. Customers donated grocery together; Healthy foods and lifestyles; Waste and recycling; items, such as pasta, coffee or cereal, by adding them to COVID 19; and Disaster relief. Equivalent meals to Australians Bananas donated to Little in need since 2003 Athletics centres since 2017 147m+ Ending Waste. Ending Hunger. 3m+ 41 Coles Group Limited 2020 Sustainability Report Disaster relief Coles is part of hundreds of communities and towns across Australia and has a long history of supporting the community during times of need. During the year, many Australians battled drought and bushfire, while others experienced floods. Our role is to support these communities and provide access to essential food and grocery items. Drought and floods Food and grocery donations In October 2019, Coles donated $1 million from the Coles To provide local support on the ground during the bushfires Nurture Fund to the Country Women’s Association’s (CWA) more than 120 pallets of food, water and other essentials were Drought Relief Fund to distribute to farming families affected donated to Foodbank, state governments and the Australian by drought. In addition, Coles raised more than $864,000 Army for distribution to relief centres, aged care facilities, for the CWA Drought Appeal through customer donations emergency services and other community members in need. at our supermarkets and liquor stores and from the sale of Our state and store teams across the country also provided $2 donation cards in the lead-up to Christmas. relief. Examples included our supermarket at Ingle Farm, These funds assisted more than 900 farming families with South Australia, which purchased and donated supplies household expenses such as medical, energy and grocery to the Salvation Army to prepare meals for firefighters. In bills. Western Australia, supplies were donated to the Fire and Emergency Services to be flown to travellers stranded at While large areas of Australia were in drought, other areas the Caiguna Roadhouse due to bushfires closing the Eyre were struck by severe storms. Amid heavy rainfall and Highway. In Victoria, the Coles Express team donated flooding in parts of Queensland in February 2020, Coles 100 cartons of supplies and a pallet of water to CFA and SES converted its delivery of goods from rail to road to ensure volunteers in Bairnsdale. food and groceries could reach our customers. Supporting team members Bushfires We are immensely proud of our team members for their Fundraising hard work in supporting their colleagues and communities In November 2019, when devastating bushfires impacted during the bushfires, not only in stores but throughout the many parts of the country, we began a fundraising supply chain. In many cases team members volunteered campaign across our stores for the Red Cross Disaster Relief with emergency services. and Recovery Fund. To support team members affected by the bushfires, we By double matching customer donations for a specific offered counselling as well as organised accommodation period, Coles contributed more than $1 million and together and transportation for additional team members to provide with our customers provided more than $3.2 million to the relief. fund. This enabled the Red Cross to provide emergency Supporting our suppliers assistance, psychological first aid and longer-term community support to Australians affected by the bushfires. With many fresh produce suppliers finding their crops impacted by drought during the year, Coles worked with In response to the bushfires, many Coles’ store teams farmers to vary our product specifications. This provided also rallied together to raise money for impacted local valuable support to farmers by helping them sell their communities. In South Australia, for example, the state team crops at the best possible price, while ensuring ongoing organised a trivia night which raised more than $220,000 for supply of great quality Australian fruit and vegetables people affected by the Cudlee Creek and Kangaroo Island for our customers. During this time, our free confidential bushfires. independent counselling service was extended to suppliers, their families and their team members. 42 Coles Group Limited 2020 Sustainability Report Overview Sustainable communities Sustainable products $3 million donation to rural fire Tens of thousands of litres of drinking Responding to the impacts of floods brigades water to regional NSW In response to floods in Queensland Coles thanked volunteer firefighters In response to severe water in February 2020, we used road for keeping our rural communities shortages facing residents in the instead of rail to transport goods to safe by donating more than small rural town of Tenterfield in our stores. $3 million in gift cards to around northern New South Wales, Coles Parts of New South Wales including 6,000 rural fire brigades across stepped in to support the local Warriewood in northern Sydney Sustainable environmental practices Australia. community. (pictured) were also impacted The $500 gift cards were provided to The devastating combination of by flooding. each brigade so they could hold a drought and bushfires had deprived Our team members also go to great thank you event with their members town residents of potable water. lengths to support our customers or stock up on food and essential By working with the NSW Farmers and their colleagues. supplies for the stations. local branch and Tenterfield Shire, we donated and delivered around In early January 2020, more than Pictured are our Gawler, South 100,000 litres of bottled water for 50 of our supermarket team Australia, Store Manager Dallas residents, the local hospital, Meals members from Sydney travelled to and Ardrossan Country Fire Service on Wheels, aged care facilities, the Batemans Bay, New South Wales, Captain Peter Cook with food school and fire fighters. to help relieve tired local team purchased using a $500 gift card members, restock shelves, and donated by Coles. Pictured are Coles Tenterfield Store Our metrics and data serve customers in one of the worst Manager Kyle with Tenterfield Shire The gift cards were distributed bushfire-affected areas. Councillor and NSW Farmers local to rural fire brigades via rural fire branch chair Bronwyn Petrie (middle), services such as the NSW Rural Tenterfield Shire Deputy Mayor Greg Fire Service, Queensland Rural Fire Sauer (right) and local residents Service, Country Fire Authority in Howard and Carmel in October Victoria, SA Country Fire Service, when Coles delivered and donated Tasmanian Fire Service, the truckloads of bottled water to the ACT Rural Fire Service, Bushfire drought and bushfire-affected town. Volunteers (WA), WA Volunteer Fire and Rescue Service, WA Volunteer We also delivered and donated Fire and Emergency Service and water to residents, fire fighters and Bushfires NT. community groups in other NSW towns such as Ebor, Guyra, Glen Innes, Dorrigo and Miriam Vale. 43 Coles Group Limited 2020 Sustainability Report Responsible sale of alcohol and tobacco Our vision to be the most trusted retailer in Australia carries specific responsibilities when operating our liquor stores in the community. We are committed to the safety and wellbeing of our team and our customers and aim to always promote the responsible sale and consumption of alcohol and tobacco. Compliance COVID-19 response We take our liquor retailing obligations seriously and are In response to COVID-19, we worked closely with state committed to harm minimisation initiatives to reduce the governments, regulators and the police to implement misuse and abuse of alcohol in the community. We go measures to keep team members and customers safe. beyond our legal obligations and are proud of our strong Measures were designed in accordance with national and proactive approach to the Responsible Service of guidelines on social distancing, as well as additional Alcohol (RSA). measures deemed appropriate for our liquor stores. In March 2020, we supported Retail Drinks Australia and the industry to voluntarily introduce product and volume limits across our liquor stores nationally. This was separate to the REMEMBER government-imposed limits in Western Australia. THE 3 BEES Key operations compliance initiatives FY20 In August 2019, a new responsible liquor supply and delivery e-learning module was launched for Coles Online Customer Service Agents to support their understanding of key RSA obligations when supplying alcohol in accordance with the Retail Drinks Australia Online Code of Conduct. In October 2019, we worked collaboratively with Services New South Wales to launch the state-wide rollout of digital driver’s licences across all stores in New South Wales. In March 2020, a solution to accept South Australian Government issued digital driver’s licences and proof of age cards was piloted in Coles Liquor stores. Supporting resources have been developed to enable state-wide rollout in FY21. In June 2020, new resources were developed as part of our National Liquor Compliance Focus Week including: • simplifying and removing paper-based checklists by switching to the iAuditor mobile web platform to BREATHE BACK AWAY ASK 4 BACKUP facilitate the proactive identification and rectification of licensing and compliance matters; The 3 Bees information campaign aims to help team members manage threatening situations by reminding them to breathe, back away and ask for • a new liquor restrictions and advertising online training backup. March 2019 module for the merchandise and marketing teams; and 44 Coles Group Limited 2020 Sustainability Report Overview Sustainable communities Responsible service of alcohol includes checking the age of some customers. • new ‘Our Community in Mind’ collateral, simplified to In FY20 Coles Liquor partnered with DrinkWise for a tailored Sustainable products one design across all brands, to help educate customers responsible drinking message encouraging customers to on key RSA laws and the safe refusal of service. ‘Stay Safe and DrinkWisely’, particularly during COVID-19. Training and building capability Coles Liquor is a member of key industry bodies Alcohol Beverages Australia (ABA) and Retail Drinks Australia (RDA). We continue to reinforce key RSA obligations through various As part of our membership with RDA, we comply with programs and communications and have comprehensive the voluntary Online Alcohol Sale and Delivery Code of training, policies and procedures in place. In FY20, these Conduct (the Code). We also have a provision for customers included: Sustainable environmental practices to self-exclude and request to not be sold liquor products in line with the Code. A new edition of the Regulatory Compliance and Licensing Booklet issued to stores nationally Coles also supports other voluntary industry initiatives, for example, we are a signatory to the Alcohol Beverage Additional signage and communications materials Advertising Code, which requires that advertisements, in popular school leavers’ holiday locations to communications and product labelling include messages reinforce RSA compliance promoting responsible alcohol consumption. Targeted ID25 ‘Check It Don’t Guess It’ training We are a member of more than 180 Liquor Accords materials, including a new eLearning module nationally and work collaboratively with community groups, the police and regulators to help find local solutions to local eLearning on responsible liquor retailing and store issues related to alcohol harm in the community. manager responsibilities which are in addition to Our metrics and data standard RSA requirements Responsible sale of tobacco Safe refusal de-escalation training e-Learning Coles takes its tobacco retailing responsibilities seriously and modules to support store team members in has policies, procedures and training in place to ensure that managing difficult customer situations team members understand their legal obligations when selling tobacco products. Only authorised team members Public commitments and community that are over 18 years of age are permitted to serve tobacco partnerships products and team members are required to apply ID25 to every transaction. Team members must complete online Coles Liquor is a founding member and key contributor training before they are able to sell tobacco products and to DrinkWise, an independent not-for-profit organisation complete mandatory tobacco refresher assessments as that aims to promote a healthier and safer drinking culture required under the various jurisdictions. through informative and educational campaigns. Coles Liquor has been using the DrinkWise pregnancy warning label on its private label and exclusive products since 2012. 45 Coles Group Limited 2020 Sustainability Report Harvey Giblett and his grandchildren Sacha and Riley in the apple orchard at Manjimup in Western Australia. A supplier to Coles for more than 30 years, Newton Orchards produces its own juice and cider to dramatically reduce food waste. In FY19, the Giblett family also began supplying apples for Coles’ new “I’m Perfect” range. 46 Sustainable products Overview Sustainable communities We want to make life easier for our customers by offering quality, safe and trusted products – sourced in an ethical, transparent and responsible way – to help them make healthy and sustainable choices. Our focus on health and nutrition is supported by our expanding range of healthy products and meal solutions in Sustainable products both Coles Supermarkets and Coles Express, where we are providing more choices for customers on the move. As customers’ needs are changing, we are offering new ranges and products. An affordable health food range has been launched and we are providing more meatfree protein alternatives. Our Own Brand food and drink standard range is now free of artificial colours and artificial flavours. Sustainable environmental practices We are also supporting programs that encourage healthy lifestyles from grassroots programs for children through to elite sports for men and women. We are committed to providing our customers quality, safe products and we have a comprehensive food safety program to mitigate risk. Responsible sourcing is key to our Own Brand offering and we are proud of our animal welfare achievements and our responsibly sourced seafood program. Our metrics and data United Nations Sustainable Development Goals 47 Coles Group Limited 2020 Sustainability Report Healthy food and lifestyles We are supporting the health and wellbeing of our customers, as well as providing them with great value and choice. Supporting healthy food choices Our range of I’m Free From products makes it easier for customers with front-of-pack labelling stating whether We work with food industry bodies and public health groups products are free from common allergens such as wheat, to address key public health challenges including through gluten, dairy, eggs and nuts. our participation in the federal government’s Healthy Food Partnership. Coles also sits on the Vegetable Intake Strategic Improving nutritional profile Alliance committee, chaired by the Commonwealth Through product reviews and reformulations, nutritional Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation (CSIRO), value is being improved while maintaining great quality, Australia’s national science agency. value and taste. Expanding our range While in FY19 our focus was on reformulating some existing Our range of healthy food and meal solutions has grown products to reduce sugar and salt, including removing significantly in recent years and there is a strong focus on 110 tonnes of salt and 150 tonnes of sugar from Own Brand fresh food in our supermarkets. The fresh produce area is products, in FY20 we concentrated on ensuring new Own almost always located at the entry, providing customers Brand products in our health food ranges had optimal with easy access to fresh fruit and vegetables. nutritional profiles. Our focus on health and nutrition is supported by our Coles’ healthy ranges – Wellness Road, Low Glycaemic expanding range of healthy products and meal solutions. Index Bread and Good Yums – have nutrition and health criteria specific to each brand. We launched 66 products In our supermarkets, we have introduced brands such as across these brands in FY20, all meeting these requirements. Wellness Road, which is free from artificial colours and artificial flavours, made with reduced levels of sugar and We continue to work towards meeting the Healthy Food salt, and free from trans fats from partially hydrogenated Partnership targets. The Partnership has set recommended oils. During FY20, we expanded our Wellness Road range salt targets for products across bakery, barbecue meat, to include nut spreads, with plans to add more products breakfast cereals and convenience meals. In FY20, we in FY21. launched 64 products from the Coles Kitchen chilled convenience range that met the recommendations. In FY20, Good Yums was launched to provide delicious, healthier options for children. Good Yums granola cereals We recognise that these products represent only a portion have less than four grams of sugar per serve and include of Own Brand, and we will continue to look for opportunities nutritious whole grains and seeds. to improve nutritional profiles across our ranges. In partnership with the Glycemic Index (GI) Foundation, We are working towards removing manufactured trans fats we launched a range of low GI bread and rolls in our from applicable Own Brand foods by substituting them supermarkets that have in-store bakeries. with healthier unsaturated fats, while still delivering high product quality and taste, with plans to label trans fats in the nutrition information panel of relevant Own Brand food and drink products. 48 Coles Group Limited 2020 Sustainability Report Overview Sustainable communities In FY20, we focused on optimising the nutritional profile of Our small format Coles Local stores also have a focus on Sustainable products Own Brand products by adding positive nutrients where healthy options and catering for changing customer possible, such as the addition of vegetables and whole tastes. Coles Local Rose Bay, which opened in May 2020, grains to ready meals and bakery products. has the largest vegan and vegetarian range of any Coles store in New South Wales, with more than 200 plant-based Since FY19, Own Brand’s food and drink standard range products, including Coles’ Nature’s Kitchen and proprietary products have been free from artificial colours and artificial brand Beyond Meat. flavours, having been replaced with natural ingredients such as fruits, spices, plants and vegetables. Growing healthy communities Sustainable environmental practices Easier choices with Health Stars Our community partnerships also reflect our purpose to sustainably feed all Australians to help them lead healthier, The Health Star Rating helps customers make healthier happier lives. choices when buying packaged foods. While it is a voluntary rating, it is displayed on the front-of-pack labelling on Fresh 5 Challenge eligible packaged Own Brand products. Coles has played The popular in-store promotion Stikeez focuses on healthy an active role in the five-year review of the Health Star eating activities for families. In FY20, this included the Coles Rating to help improve the usability of the system. Fresh 5 Challenge, a fun initiative to translate the Australian At the end of FY20, Health Star Ratings were displayed on Dietary Guidelines into simple messaging for children. more than 2,400 Own Brand products. The campaign aimed to educate families on the Five Food Alternative proteins Groups and recommended servings, encouraging children Our metrics and data to eat from the different food groups and track their daily With more customers looking for vegetarian and vegan intake against the recommended serves based on the options, we have increased our range of plant-based and Australian Dietary Guidelines. alternative protein products. Following community feedback, customers could During FY20, Coles’ Nature’s Kitchen plant-based range also return any duplicate, old or spare Stikeez to Coles expanded to include meat-free burgers, sausages, pizzas, supermarkets to be recycled. They were also wrapped curries and ravioli. Herb & Sons, a new range featuring in responsibly sourced paper that was fully recyclable in beefless mince and sausages, was launched as well as kerbside recycling bins. chicken-free schnitzels and nuggets. For Christmas 2019, we offered Coles’ first ever plant-based roast to cater for the The Heart Foundation growing demand for vegan options. In FY20, we teamed up with the Heart Foundation and Coles’ free monthly magazine includes plant-based some well-known Australian chefs to raise awareness about recipes, products and tips to encourage Australians to heart disease and raise funds through the Cook with Heart include plant-based meals in their diets. challenge. The challenge encourages home cooks to create and share heart-healthy recipes. 49 Coles Group Limited 2020 Sustainability Report We matched community donations to the value of $100,000 We are investing in both women’s and men’s football from and used our regular ‘What’s for Dinner’ segment during grassroots local football to the elite professional game, with Channel 7’s 6pm news to promote the work of the Heart healthy lifestyles at the heart of the partnership. Foundation and the importance of cooking heart-healthy Coles and the AFL will work together and focus on issues recipes. that are of importance to both organisations including The Stephanie Alexander Kitchen Garden Foundation health, nutrition, inclusion and community support. Our new three-year partnership with the Stephanie AFL General Manager Commercial Kylie Rogers Alexander Kitchen Garden Foundation supports our welcomed the partnership with Coles and the extra purpose to help Australians lead healthier, happier lives. support for the AFL’s Bushfire Community Relief Fund. The Foundation gives thousands of children, at more than “The partnership is a natural fit, with both the AFL and 2,000 schools and early learning centres around Australia, Coles dedicated to giving back to local communities access to food education to help them develop a healthy and providing opportunities for all Australians. Our relationship with food, as well as build self-confidence and commitment to each other ensures we can continue to life skills. invest back into our sport to promote participation and growth at all levels of the game.” Recognising the importance of the program in helping families to stay well and connected during COVID-19, Coles During the year, Coles teamed up with the Essendon produced a series of cooking tutorial videos and donated Football Club to create opportunities for female footballers $100,000 to the Foundation’s ‘Kitchen Garden Program from the Tiwi Islands to make their way through Essendon’s at Home’ to allow the program to continue in the home Tiwi Women’s Pathway Program to the Victorian Football environment. This dedicated online resource includes Leagues Women’s (VFLW) Competition and potentially themed garden activities, recipes and curriculum links join the Australian Football League Women’s (AFLW) designed to teach children about growing, harvesting, competition. Footballers from the Tiwi Islands will live, train preparing and sharing while learning from home. and play in Melbourne for Essendon’s VFLW team and receive mentoring and support from Coles. Australian Football League Through our partnership with the Collingwood Football Club In FY20, a five-year partnership with the Australian Football Community Foundation, Coles also supports the club’s League (AFL) was announced to promote healthy and elite female football and netball teams in the AFLW, VFLW active lifestyles in the community and grow participation and Suncorp Super Netball League competitions as well at all levels of the game. as grassroots multicultural and schools initiative in zones in Victoria and Tasmania. Together with Curtis Stone, Coles announced a new partnership with the Stephanie Alexander Kitchen Garden Program in February 2020. Providing thousands of children across Australia access to a food education program helps them develop a healthy relationship with food, self-confidence and life skills. 50 Coles Group Limited 2020 Sustainability Report Overview Sustainable communities Commonwealth Games high jump gold medallist and Coles team member Brandon Starc (middle) with Baldivis Little Athletics participants in Western Australia. Coles donates bananas to Little Athletics to provide children with a healthy and nutritious snack. Little Athletics and Athletics Australia In January, 24 young Indigenous athletes from Athletics Sustainable products Australia and Melbourne University’s ‘Raise the Bar’ Since 2017, we have been providing support to athletes Academy visited the Coles Store Support Centre for around the country to foster athletics in the community workshops in cooking, nutrition, resume writing and interview through our partnership with Little Athletics Australia and skills. Athletics Australia. Since November 2018, more than $1.1 million in grants Around 450 Little Athletics centres benefited from weekly has been provided for new sports equipment to 316 Little banana donations during the winter and summer seasons Athletics centres across Australia. Funds for the grants in FY20. More than three million bananas have now been Sustainable environmental practices are raised through the sale of specially marked chiller donated to Little Athletics centres since 2017 to provide bags designed by Australian children. For every bag sold, children with a healthy, nutritious snack during athletics 25 cents is directed to the Coles Little Athletics Community sessions. A ‘Health Station’ was also introduced at selected Fund to provide sport equipment grants. schools, national and state athletics competitions. Rowing Australia The ‘Coles Little Athletes, Big Dreams’ program was launched in October to inspire little athletes to dream big. Coles’ sponsorship of Rowing Australia includes providing Olympians Sally Pearson, Brandon Starc and Matthew fresh food and groceries for rowers at the National Men’s Denny visited 35 Little Athletics centres over eight weeks to and Women’s Training Centres in Canberra and Sydney as share their training tips with thousands of little athletes and well as supporting the Australian Rowing Championships, their families. Australian Masters Rowing Championships and the Australian Indoor Rowing Championships, which is a participation-based initiative to encourage people in the Our metrics and data community to try rowing. Schools and early learning centres Promoting healthy and supported through partnership with active lifestyles with Stephanie Alexander Kitchen Garden 2,000+ 5 year partnership with the AFL 51 Coles Group Limited 2020 Sustainability Report Providing quality, safe products We are committed to providing customers with safe, high-quality Own Brand products. Our commitment is supported by our rigorous supplier requirements, our auditing and inspection program and in-store standards. Food and product safety Coles’ Quality Academy, in partnership with SAI Global, provides training in food safety and quality management. Our comprehensive Food Safety Program covers the In FY20, nearly 16,000 hours of training were provided to our production, processing, storage and preparation of fresh, suppliers and team members on recalls and withdrawals, chilled, frozen and grocery products. compliance auditing, food legislation, and food safety. Under the program, suppliers must provide detailed product We take an active role in various standards committees specifications through an online database that supports and working groups to drive food safety and social and product traceability and includes strict adherence to environmental sustainability. Coles is a member of, and quality compliance standards such as declared allergens, participates in, the Global Food Safety Initiative Australasia certifications and nutritional information. Steering Committee, the Australian Food and Grocery Council Technical Leads Forum, the Allergen Collaboration Suppliers also need to have the factory or facility where and the Food Incident Forum. food is produced audited annually by approved auditors. Our Product and Food Safety Steering Committee, chaired Regular assessments of fresh food are conducted at our by the Chief Legal & Safety Officer, provides oversight of national distribution centres and supermarkets. During FY20, Coles’ Food Safety Program. our rigorous Own Brand supplier testing program completed more than 67,000 checks covering allergens, imported Product withdrawals and recalls food, residues, organic products and microbiological safety and quality. If a product is identified as being unsafe or defective, it is withdrawn and/or recalled and corrective action taken to We also performed selected quality checks on more than prevent it happening again. 1,200 products at our Store Support Centre and conducted more than 119,000 checks on products coming into our During FY20, three Own Brand products were recalled due fresh produce distribution centres, with an additional to cleaning chemical contamination and undeclared 34,000 checks for chilled products, to make sure we are allergens. In response we issued public communications providing customers with quality, safe products. and worked with regulators and suppliers to promptly mitigate any associated issues. Product authenticity is included in the testing, allowing us to detect and rectify potential food fraud, including signs of Any time a customer reports they have suffered an injury tampering, contamination or damage. or sickness associated with one of our products (proven or unproven), it is reported to the Australian Competition Our Product Safety Program covers non-food products. and Consumer Commission (ACCC), as required under We work closely with suppliers in terms of compliance with Australian Consumer Law. relevant mandatory standards and consumer guarantees under the Australian Consumer Law. 52 Coles Group Limited 2020 Sustainability Report Own Brand awards the cheese category, Coles Ready to Roast Crackling Ham won the meal solution category and Coles Finest Own Brand is central to our strategy to inspire customers by Laurent Sourdough Rolls the bakery category. We through best value food and drink solutions. We go to great also won household cleaning product of the year with lengths to ensure these products are high quality, great our Green Choice Bathroom Cleaner. value and loved by our customers. Our ELB products were recognised with 372 medals, Our Own Brand products range from everyday essentials, awards and accolades in FY20. This included Tinnies to organic and health food products, to indulgent treats Pale Ale winning World’s Best Pale Bitter in the 4.5% to and the Exclusive Liquor Brand (ELB) range. 5.5% Alcohol By Volume category at the World Beer Overview Awards 2019 in London, a Platinum Medal for Loch  In FY20, Own Brand supermarket products were Lomond 12 Year Old Single Malt Scotch Whisky at the acknowledged with 28 awards and recognitions. 2020 San Francisco World Spirits Competition and a This included winning five categories at the 2020 Trophy for Best Rosé at the 2019 Margaret River Wine Product of the Year awards, where more than 10,000 Sustainable communities show for the Abbey Vale Premium Margaret River Rosé customers voted for their favourite products. Coles’ 2019 vintage. Drip Cake won the cake category, the Ash Brie won These awards reflect the hard work of the Own Brand and ELB teams and suppliers to inspire customers. Sustainable products Sustainable environmental practices Our metrics and data Own Brand products were named winners at the 2020 Product of the Year Awards across five categories. The award-winning products included the Coles Drip Cake, Coles Crackling Ham, Coles Finest by Laurent sourdough rolls and Coles Ash Brie. 53 Coles Group Limited 2020 Sustainability Report Responsible sourcing We know our customers want us to provide Own Brand products that have been responsibly sourced. Coles’ Responsible Sourcing Program focuses on safeguarding animal welfare and minimising environmental impacts. RSPCA Approved Five freedoms Slow Hills chicken We have a long relationship We care about how the food we In September 2019, Coles was the with the Royal Society for the sell is produced and sourced, and first major supermarket to nationally Prevention of Cruelty to Animals are committed to working towards launch a slower growing poultry (RSPCA Australia). a sustainable future that supports offer called Slow Hills. The Slow local farmers and food producers, Hills chickens are raised under Our Own Brand fresh chicken while looking after the welfare the RSPCA Approved Farming and fresh turkey sold in Coles of animals. Scheme Standards in the Hunter supermarkets have been RSPCA Valley in New South Wales in freeApproved since 2014, and Own We believe that protecting and range systems without the use Brand fresh free-range pork sold improving the welfare of animals of antibiotics. Slow Hills chickens in Coles supermarkets has been in our supply chains is central have access to perches and RSPCA Approved since 2015. to gaining and maintaining good quality litter inside the shed, In 2018, we were the first major customer trust. and attractive outdoor areas for Australian supermarket to launch Our Animal Welfare Policy is based ranging during the day. free-range RSPCA Approved around the five freedoms: Chicken in Victoria and New South Wales. Since the launch, • Freedom from hunger our free-range RSPCA Approved and thirst; Graze lamb Chicken products have more than • Freedom from discomfort; doubled in volume and the range In January 2020, Coles was the was expanded to sell nationally in • Freedom from pain, injury first major Australian supermarket FY20. We have the broadest range or disease; to offer Graze lamb, Tasmanian of RSPCA Approved products of • Freedom to express normal grown lamb which is grass-fed, any major Australian supermarket behaviour; and free to roam on open pastures and were the only major and raised without the use of • Freedom from fear and Australian supermarket to offer antibiotics. distress. RSPCA Approved Own Brand fresh The introduction of Graze lamb turkeys for Christmas in 2019. The policy sets out our has created a new market for expectations regarding the Tasmanian producers. As of 30 Back in 2014 Coles led the way treatment of animals and June 2020, 60 Tasmanian lamb for improved chicken welfare aquaculture species in global producers were part of Coles by launching RSPCA Approved supply chains for all Own Graze Lamb Farm Program, either Chicken in Victoria and New South Brand products sold in Coles supplying to Coles or preparing Wales. Today, nearly 80% of meat supermarkets. to supply. chickens grown in Australia are raised under the RSPCA Approved Farming Scheme. 54 Coles Group Limited 2020 Sustainability Report Overview Sustainable communities Coles General Manager of Meat, Charlotte, and Tasmanian lamb producer Scott Colvin discuss the new grass-fed lamb range, Graze, launched by Coles in January 2020. Animal welfare The BBFAW assesses 150 of the world’s largest food Sustainable products companies and our rating puts us in the top 17 retailers Our Animal Welfare Policy sets out our commitment to assessed globally. source animal and aquaculture products sold in Coles supermarkets from farming operations that have a high “RSPCA Australia has worked very closely with Coles standard of animal welfare and, where appropriate, hold and their suppliers for more than a decade to bring the animal welfare certification. broadest range of RSPCA Approved products to their customers. Coles’ commitment to improving animal We are proud that Coles was the first major Australian welfare in Australia has meant that millions of chickens, supermarket to deliver: Sustainable environmental practices turkeys and free range pigs have benefitted from improved conditions and a better quality of life. We’re Own Brand fresh beef with no added hormones excited to continue our work with Coles to continue to improve the welfare of Australia’s farm animals.” Hope Bertram, Humane Food Manager, RSPCA Australia Own Brand shell eggs cage-free Cage free eggs All Own Brand shell eggs sold nationally are cage-free and Own Brand fresh pork, bacon and ham sow in 2019 we also transitioned all proprietary shell eggs in stall-free and produced without artificial Western Australia to cage-free. growth promotants In 2018, we set ourselves a target to be cage-free by Own Brand fresh chicken and fresh turkey 2023 for all shell-eggs sold in our supermarkets including Our metrics and data RSPCA Approved proprietary branded eggs and eggs as ingredients in Own Brand products. Since making this commitment, the egg Own Brand fresh free-range pork industry has faced many challenges including access to RSPCA Approved capital investment as well as the impacts of drought and bushfires both of which have limited the growth of cagefree egg production. The retail industry has set 2025 cageOwn Brand fresh free-range chicken free targets and we will now align with its dates and plans. RSPCA Approved Coles Farm Program In FY20, Coles was assessed by the Business Benchmark on Established in 2014, the Coles Farm Program applies to Farm Animal Welfare (BBFAW), the leading global measure suppliers of Own Brand cage-free eggs, Graze beef and of farm animal welfare management, policy, performance Graze lamb, the latter which was added to the program and disclosure in food companies. We ranked tier three out in FY20. At the end of FY20, there were 246 suppliers on of six, with tier one being the highest rank possible. This was the program – 26 Own Brand cage-free eggs, 160 Graze an increase of one tier compared with FY19 when we were beef and 60 Graze lamb. Under the program, farmers are assessed under Wesfarmers. required to meet strict requirements in animal husbandry and environmental management. 55 Coles Group Limited 2020 Sustainability Report Coles’ Graze grass-fed standard also specifies cattle and lambs are never fed cereal grains to supplement their diet even in challenging weather conditions. If farmers feed grain to animals because pasture is limited, they can no longer be sold under the Graze range but as conventionally farmed. The program is a combination of self-assessments and industry body/privately organised audits. All suppliers complete a self-assessment when joining the program which is reviewed by the Coles Responsible Sourcing team to confirm adherence to the program requirements. In addition to this, Graze suppliers complete a declaration form for each lot of animals sold in conjunction with the National Vendor Declaration protocol. During FY20, we changed the self-assessment schedule. Rather than selfassessments being due annually at the anniversary of Dylan Skinns from Austral Fisheries is a carbon neutral business that supplies joining the program, both egg and Graze beef suppliers Coles with Australian MSC-certified raw banana prawns. will complete their self-assessments between June and September FY21, and lamb suppliers in November FY21. We are proud that all Own Brand seafood sold in Coles supermarkets is responsibly sourced and has been since Egg suppliers are audited annually for compliance to 2015. Well managed and responsible fishing is essential the industry standard, Egg Standards Australia Level 3. As to maintaining healthy fish populations and habitats, and the Coles Graze Standard is one we developed for our supporting the sustainability of marine ecosystems. own programs in conjunction with the industry, audits are conducted for Coles by the industry auditing body AusAll Own Brand seafood sold in Coles supermarkets is Meat. It is our expectation that a minimum of 10% of Graze responsibly sourced to either MSC, ASC, GLOBALG.A.P or lamb and beef suppliers will be audited annually. BAP certification or independently assessed to the Coles Responsibly Sourced Seafood criteria. COVID-19 presented issues with the audit schedule however we anticipate this to be back on track in FY21. We continue to review our program as fish stocks can fluctuate and the environment in which fisheries operate is Coles had planned to roll out a grain fed program in FY20. complex and ever-changing. However, as many of our farmers were impacted by the drought we made the decision to suspend the program to Coles is a signatory to the Australian Seafood Traceability minimise pressure being placed on their businesses. Statement, an industry-led business commitment towards best practice in traceability across the seafood supply chain. Responsibly sourced seafood We also have traceability of our tuna supply chain with the ability to trace Own Brand skipjack and yellowfin canned All Own Brand seafood sold in Coles tuna back to the approved fishing boat that caught the supermarkets is responsibly sourced tuna. In FY20, Coles was awarded the MSC Best Sustainable “A critical part of the MSC mission is to work with Seafood Supermarket in Australia. The MSC has named businesses to find ways of ensuring our oceans are Coles holder of the award since 2017, recognising that sustainably managed while still delivering a business we have the widest eco-labelled fresh seafood range advantage, ensuring fishing communities’ livelihoods of any Australian supermarket. are maintained as well as providing invaluable nutrition for a growing global population. The commitment and We were also awarded the 2020 MSC Best Sustainable stewardship Coles has demonstrated in leveraging Seafood Public Engagement, a direct result of us an international certification scheme like the MSC listening and responding to our customers. will go a long way in delivering the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDG 14 Life Below Water) which is only possible through the mobilisation and transformation of businesses, consumers and fishing communities, alongside government policies.” Anne Gabriel, Program Director, Oceania & Singapore, Marine Stewardship Council (MSC) 56 Coles Group Limited 2020 Sustainability Report Certified products and ingredients Coles supports the Bonsucro program for the sustainable production of sugar cane. With the exception of Own Some key commodities are sourced from regions with Brand organic sugar, all other Own Brand packaged sugar higher environmental and labour risk. Where practicable, products including white, brown, raw, caster and soft icing Coles uses independent and internationally recognised mixture are sourced in Australia from our Bonsucro-certified certification programs that support ethical practices and supplier. environmental protection in these supply chains. Timber and paper Palm oil Coles’ Sustainably and Ethically Certified Commodities Overview While palm oil is used in many products around the world, Policy sets out our expectations regarding the use and unsustainable farming practices in some countries where supply of timber and timber pulp-based paper for Own oil palms are grown can impact the environment, wildlife Brand products sold in Coles supermarkets. and local communities. We are working towards December 2020 for Coles Sustainable communities Coles is a member of the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm supermarkets Own Brand timber, pulp and paper products Oil (RSPO). All Own Brand food and drink products sold in to be sourced from: Coles supermarkets contain or support the production of sustainable palm oil. This means that within the food and • forest plantations that are independently certified drink supply chain for Own Brand products sold in Coles to the Programme for the Endorsement of Forest supermarkets, Coles requires the supplier using palm oil to: Certification (PEFC) or Forest Stewardship Council® (FSC®) certification schemes; or • obtain RSPO Supply Chain Certification for its own • post-consumer recycled fibre (i.e. the material has been supply chain; or part of another product; and at the time a material was Sustainable products • be able to demonstrate RSPO Certification for each removed from that product, it was no longer in use and palm oil ingredient that is incorporated into the Coles the material was considered waste). brand product. This excludes timber, pulp or paper used as a component in When developing new Own Brand products, we aim to food and drink products, and in product packaging. use sustainable palm oil. This approach encourages palm oil producers to move to sustainable practices, while Since June 2020 all Coles Own Brand sanitary protection supporting the livelihoods of those communities dependent items containing pulp or paper have been PEFC certified. on the palm oil industry. All Own Brand nappies and nappy pants containing pulp Sustainable environmental practices are FSC certified, and Own Brand tissue products (facial Where palm oil is present in our food and drink products, tissues, paper towels, toilet paper, serviettes) are PEFC or it is labelled accordingly. Our Palm Oil Policy requires us to FSC certified or made from recycled material. identify palm oil specifically instead of using the common term ‘blended vegetable oils’. Coles is also a member of the Retailers Palm Oil Group, a coalition of companies who have the common aim of using sustainable palm oil in their products. Tea, coffee, cocoa and sugar We use independent certification programs, such as Our metrics and data Fairtrade and Rainforest Alliance/UTZ, when sourcing tea, coffee and cocoa to give customers confidence that these commodities have been sourced ethically and sustainably, and to help grow the market for independently certified products. Single ingredient tea, coffee and cocoa Own Brand products, and cocoa used in Own Brand solid chocolate blocks, sold in Coles supermarkets, are required to be independently certified or verified. Current recognised certifications and verification programs include Fairtrade, Rainforest Alliance/UTZ and Cocoa Horizons. At 30 June 2020, we had one line of tea not certified and we are currently working towards certification. We aspire to increase the use of certified and/or verified coffee, tea and cocoa as The coffee in our Coles Urban Coffee Culture range and Coles Daley Street ingredients in Own Brand products sold in Coles supermarkets. coffee range (the latter launched in FY20) are sourced from Rainforest Alliance/UTZ-certified farms. 57 Coles Group Limited 2020 Sustainability Report Recycling plastic for furniture Soft plastic collected by REDcycle from our supermarkets is recycled into products such as outdoor furniture and playground equipment. Pictured are Hunter and Chloe from Prospect Primary School in South Australia. 30m average number of pieces of plastic collected every month from Coles supermarkets in FY20 Coles team member Matt and REDcycle founder Liz Kasell outside the Gisborne supermarket. In FY20, Coles and REDcycle reached a major milestone, with more than one billion pieces of flexible plastic diverted from landfill across Australia since 2011. 58 Sustainable environmental Overview practices Sustainable communities As one of Australia’s largest companies, we understand our responsibility to minimise our environmental footprint. With the impacts of climate change highly visible during the year – with extreme weather events such as floods and drought, and the devastation of bushfires – this responsibility has never been so clear. This includes maintaining security Sustainable products of food supply as our climate changes to enable us to sustainably feed all Australians. We are developing a Climate Change Strategy and will set new targets to reduce greenhouse gas emissions to provide assurance to stakeholders that this is an issue of which we are acutely aware. Stakeholders are also concerned about broader Sustainable environmental practices environmental issues such as waste and recycling, plastic packaging and single use plastic products. We are also working to address these. Food waste is a high priority and we continue our work with partners SecondBite and Foodbank to provide unsold, edible food to Australians in need. Food security and reducing food waste are important social and environmental issues. Our focus on reducing food waste has meant that since 2003, the equivalent of more than 147 million healthy and nutritious meals have been provided to people in need Our metrics and data through our partnerships. United Nations Sustainable Development Goals United Nations Global Compact Principles 7, 8 and 9 59 Coles Group Limited 2020 Sustainability Report Climate change As one of Australia’s largest companies, we have a responsibility to minimise our environmental footprint. Our business is also impacted by climate change, and we need to adapt in order to respond to extreme weather events and maintain security of food supply to sustainably feed all Australians. We support the United Nations (UN) Sustainable The next steps in developing the Climate Change Strategy Development Goals including Goal 13 (Climate action), the will be assessing Coles’ corporate strategy against different UN Global Compact Principles (including Principles seven, climate scenarios and releasing new greenhouse gas eight and nine which relate to the environment) and the emission reduction targets for operational emissions. The recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related strategy will also reference and respond to the risks already Financial Disclosures (TCFD). More details on our response identified. to the TCFD, particularly governance, strategy and risk management, can be found in our 2020 Annual Report. Climate change governance The Board oversees the effectiveness of Coles’ environment, Achievements to date and next steps sustainability and governance policies and retains ultimate We met our 2020 emissions reduction target, to reduce oversight of material environmental and sustainability combined Scope 1 (direct) and Scope 2 (indirect) risks and opportunities, including those related to climate greenhouse gas emissions by 30% from a 2009 baseline, change. The Audit and Risk Committee assists the Board in in 2016. At the end of FY20, we had reduced combined fulfilling its responsibilities. Scope 1 (direct) and Scope 2 (indirect) greenhouse gas Coles’ Sustainability Steering Committee, a management emissions by 36.5% from 2009. committee, is responsible for overseeing Group-wide We have achieved this largely through a focus on energy identification and response to sustainability risks, including efficiency and refrigeration management. These and other climate change. achievements are detailed on the following pages. Our climate change agenda and program are coordinated During FY20, an external consultant was engaged to by a Climate Change Subcommittee which oversees Coles’ complete a gap analysis of Coles’ previous reporting climate change approach and reports to the Sustainability against the TCFD recommendations. While the analysis Steering Committee and its Chair. found we are partially aligned with the majority of the TCFD Our approach to climate change governance recommended disclosures, we are continuing to refine and will continue to develop as we embed roles and enhance our disclosures as our Climate Change Strategy is responsibilities throughout the organisation, recognising developed and embedded within our business. that responsibilities for managing and mitigating climate We also prepared a detailed road map and action plan to change are organisation wide. enhance our climate change response and support Coles’ transition to a lower-carbon economy. The roadmap, Climate change risks and opportunities which was endorsed by the Board, also highlights the key Through the application of the Coles’ Risk Management milestones we need to meet to enable more comprehensive Framework, climate change has been identified as a climate change responses and disclosures. material business risk to the Group. Our first priority was a climate change risk assessment, as During FY20, we worked with an external consultant to further described in the section titled Climate Change Risks and understand our climate change risks and opportunities. The Opportunities. qualitative risk assessment applied the risk management 60 Coles Group Limited 2020 Sustainability Report Overview Construction has commenced on the development of a solar farm outside Junee in regional New South Wales. It is one of three solar farms from which Coles Sustainable communities will source 10% of its national power needs. The other two solar farms will be located outside the regional centres of Wagga Wagga and Corowa. All three solar farms are being developed an constructed by METKA EGN Australia. processes defined within Coles’ Risk Management The key transition risks for Coles are: Sustainable products Framework and used three climate scenarios to prompt • Reputational innovative thinking. These scenarios were mainly informed by publicly available reference scenarios developed by the • Changing regulatory requirements International Energy Agency and the Intergovernmental • Carbon pricing Panel on Climate Change. Other sources used included • Export market growth ClimateWorks Decarbonisation Futures, the World Bank The key physical risks for Coles are: Group, and literature specific to Australian agriculture, livestock and fisheries productivity and viticulture suitability. • Health and safety Sustainable environmental practices The scenarios were: • Supply chain disruption • Food safety Stated policies 1 Where governments deliver on current policies • Asset integrity and continuity of operations already in place which result in approximately Initiatives to address climate-related risks 3.2°C warming above pre-industrial levels. and opportunities Ambitious global action 2 Where there is active movement towards the goals During FY20, we continued development of a comprehensive Climate Change Strategy to enhance the set in the Paris Agreement to keep “global average way climate-related risks and opportunities are understood, temperature to well below 2°C, or preferably to managed and disclosed. There are also a range of activities 1.5°C above pre-industrial levels”. underway to address the risks and opportunities provided  unaway climate change R by climate change. 3 Our metrics and data Where there is no limit placed on carbon Energy Strategy emissions and warming is set to reach 4°C above pre-industrial levels. Our Energy Strategy guides our approach to energy procurement, management, energy efficiency and Analysis of the risk exposure considered financial, renewable energy. reputational, health and safety, legal and regulatory, and operational consequences over the next 10 years. The In FY20, we were the first major Australian retailer to commit assessment also identified associated metrics and targets to buying renewable energy through a power purchase used to monitor the management of risks and opportunities agreement. The 10-year agreement is in place to purchase and evaluated risk exposure against Coles’ climate change power from three solar plants in New South Wales with the risk appetite. projects expected to provide 10% of Coles’ national power needs. The solar plants are expected to be operational The risks identified have been grouped into the two major in FY21. categories of climate-related risks identified by the TCFD: risks related to the transition to a lower-carbon economy and We also installed solar power at 37 supermarkets and physical risks (acute and chronic). More detail on the risks set added a further two systems in July 2020, taking the total out below, and on mitigants and opportunities associated number of supermarkets with solar to 69. with each risk, can be found in the 2020 Annual Report. 61 Coles Group Limited 2020 Sustainability Report Our LED lighting program was delayed in FY20 as a result Environmental improvements in new stores of the complexity of the program and supplier challenges. Our design brief sets the standard for new stores and store Our plan had been to have LED lighting installed in all refurbishments. In addition to including trans critical CO2 supermarkets by December 2019. At the end of FY20, LED refrigeration on our store design brief, in FY20 we also lighting was installed in 805 (98%) of our supermarkets. We added other sustainability features to the blueprint such as: had also planned to install LED lighting at 391 stand-alone Coles Liquor stores in FY20. During FY20, LED lighting was • Added doors to upright refrigerated cases (other than in installed at an additional 31 Liquor stores taking the total fresh produce areas); number to 318. • Replaced large open box style frozen refrigerated Our data centres house an extensive network of computer cases with upright units with doors; systems needed for our day-to-day operations. These are • Removed undershelf lighting in the health and baby energy intensive to operate and over the past four years, product aisles; at one of our centres, we have introduced a range of energy reduction and efficiency measures including open • Added motion sensing and dimming technology to air night cooling, new electrical systems, uninterrupted back of house areas; power supply and replacement of some computer systems. • Lowered the entire roof height of our proposed stores to These initiatives have improved energy efficiency by 35% reduce air conditioning requirements; and at the data centre which has also decreased associated • Detailed new water and gas meter requirements to greenhouse gas emissions. enable remote monitoring. Refrigeration management Business continuity planning Refrigeration is essential for maintaining food safety and We understand that climate change and extreme weather quality. However, refrigerant gases can have a major events can also impact supply security and our ability to impact on the environment with older refrigerants having provide goods to customers. This could include severe or high global warming potential and significantly impacting total disruption to the production and transportation of on greenhouse gas emissions. goods due to extreme weather events, as well as production Our approach to refrigeration management includes risks associated with climate change. investing in transcritical CO2 refrigerants – natural gas We seek to manage these risks through business continuity compounds that have little or no impact on the ozone layer processes to maintain sourcing and delivery of goods to and do not contribute to greenhouse gas emissions. stores during floods, storms and bushfires. For example, in In FY20, transcritical CO2 refrigeration design was response to floods in Queensland in February 2020, we used incorporated into our new store design brief as standard road instead of rail to transport goods to impacted stores. for cooler regions of Australia. In FY21, Coles Liquor will be Research into supply chain resilience trialling CO2 refrigeration at six sites. In FY20, we worked with the CSIRO to understand the We also continued with our refrigeration pipe replacement security of our fresh food supply chain. Thirty-one categories program, invested in leak-detection technology and across meat, seafood, produce, dairy and bakery were installed energy efficient variable speed drives in more quantitatively assessed to identify critical supply nodes, than 150 stores in FY20. highlight key supply risks and quantify supply chain resilience. This work with the CSIRO will provide us with a better understanding of the resilience of our fresh food supply chain and its potential exposure to current and future environmental risks, as well as pathways to navigate those risks, including better informing continuity planning. Greenhouse gas emissions Greenhouse gas emissions compared with FY191 since 20091 1.3% 36.5% 1 Combined Scope 1 and 2 62 Coles Group Limited 2020 Sustainability Report Opportunities for new product development We understand that minimising environmental impacts of food production is an important issue for many customers, and we have responded by increasing our range of plantbased products. During FY20, Own Brand developed and launched new products. We expanded the Nature’s Kitchen range of plant-based products and introduced Herb & Sons, a new Overview range featuring beefless mince and sausages, as well as chicken-free schnitzels and nuggets. In FY20, our first plantbased roast was launched to cater for the growing demand for vegan and flexitarian meal options at Christmas. Sustainable communities Supplier support through the Coles Nurture Fund Through the Coles Nurture Fund, we are supporting suppliers Doors on refrigeration units help to reduce energy consumption. with grants to help them adapt to climate change as well as to mitigate their own impact. In FY20, our Scope 1 and 2 emissions were 1,596,102 tonnes CO2 -e, a 1.3% decrease compared with FY19. In FY20, a grant was awarded to Harvey Citrus from Harvey, Western Australia, which will extend the supply of Western Scope 3 emissions are indirect emissions (not included in Australian-grown citrus over the summer and increase Scope 2) that occur in Coles’ value chain. Currently, the local employment by extending its cool room facility and most reliable and robust data for our Scope 3 emissions acquiring solar panels for its packing shed. Sustainable products include business air travel; transmission-related emissions from electricity, gas and fuel; and waste disposal from Another recipient, Braebrook Pastoral, will produce stores and sites. renewable energy from organic waste by constructing an on-farm biogas system on its pig farm at Willaura, Victoria. In FY20, our Scope 3 emissions were 275,640 tonnes CO2 -e, a 9% decrease compared with FY19. Participation in the Australian Beef Sustainability Framework As part of our ongoing work on climate change, we All Coles fresh beef is 100% Australian grown. As part of our continue to focus on greenhouse gas emission reductions support of sustainable beef production, Coles participates Sustainable environmental practices and are in the process of developing new greenhouse gas in the Australian Beef Sustainability Framework (ABSF), an emission reduction targets. We have also started scoping initiative of the Red Meat Advisory Council managed by work to better understand our Scope 3 emissions. Meat and Livestock Australia. Water The ABSF continues to work with industry on strategies to address high-priority sustainability issues in beef production We calculate water use across operations including for including deforestation and reducing carbon emissions, stores, distribution centres, preparation and manufacturing while the Australian red meat and livestock industry has set facilities, and store support centres. In FY20, total water the ambitious target to be carbon-neutral by 2030. consumption was 2,721 ML compared with 3,363 ML in FY19. Metrics and targets Smart meters have been installed in nearly 260 supermarkets. These meters help save water, mainly through leak The metrics used to help us understand our environmental detection. and climate change impacts include greenhouse gas Our metrics and data emissions and energy use, water consumption and waste We have supported fresh produce suppliers with grants diverted from landfill. from the Coles Nurture Fund to be used to reduce water use. Greenhouse gas emissions and energy Sutton Farms from Gatton, Queensland, will use a Our main sources of Scope 1 (direct) emissions include $400,000 grant to increase water and fertiliser efficiency emissions from refrigerant gases, natural gas, transport fuel, by introducing grow bag technology and a new irrigation stationary LPG and diesel for onsite back-up generators, system for its cherry tomatoes grown in the field. while Scope 2 (indirect) emissions are those associated with electricity use. Hall Stanley Premium Chestnuts from Stanley, Victoria, will save water and increase production by introducing new Purchased electricity represents 82% of our combined high-efficiency irrigation and fertigation, which reduces Scope 1 and 2 emissions, followed by refrigerant gases. evaporation and increases nutrients, with a $73,000 grant. 63 Coles Group Limited 2020 Sustainability Report Reducing waste and supporting recycling Reducing waste is not only important to Coles, but also to our customers. It is about supporting a circular economy where we use our resources wisely. Reducing food waste in FY20 was impacted by COVID-19 with some charities scaling back their services in order to protect vulnerable As a food retailer, we love food and do not want it to go to volunteers and workers. waste. Every Coles supermarket and distribution centre is connected with a food waste solution, something we first Food that could not be donated to food rescue was achieved at the end of FY19. Our first choice for unsold, given to farmers for animal feed or donated to animal edible food is to donate it to food rescue organisations. rescue organisations. In FY20, more than 490 supermarkets Following that, we have other food waste solutions including supported the farm donation program. donation to farmers and animal or wildlife services, organics Organic bins were installed in 67 supermarkets during the collections and in-store food waste disposal equipment. year, bringing the total number of stores with organic bins We partner with food rescue organisation SecondBite to 483 which is 16% more than in FY19. which collects unsold, edible food either directly from our Our small-format Coles Local stores strive to have zero supermarkets or organises for local charities to collect it on edible food waste to landfill with unsold edible food its behalf. In addition to collecting and redistributing food collected by SecondBite or disposed of in organics bins or from our stores, SecondBite also collects food from our fresh food digestors. and chilled distribution centres. The Australian Government’s National Food Waste Strategy We also partner with Foodbank which collects from our sets a goal to halve food waste by 2030. We set ourselves grocery distribution centres across Australia. a target to halve food waste in supermarkets by 2020. In During FY20, nearly 14,000 tonnes of unsold, edible food FY20, across Coles we diverted2 65% food waste that would (the equivalent of 28 million meals) was donated to otherwise have gone to landfill. SecondBite and more than 887 tonnes of unsold edible Working with suppliers to reduce food waste food (the equivalent of 1.6 million meals) was donated to Foodbank from our stores and distribution centres1. We also We work with our Australian suppliers to reduce food waste supported them with bulk food donations during the year. and increase overall crop yields by using produce, which typically would not be sold in stores, in other products such This was an increase compared with FY19, when we as Own Brand zucchini noodles, sweet potato noodles, provided 12,500 tonnes (the equivalent of 24.9 million sweet potato chips, and broccoli and cauliflower rice, as meals) of unsold edible food to SecondBite and Foodbank well as the Own Brand range of banana-based products. from our stores and distribution centres. Our range of I’m Perfect fruit and vegetables celebrates During the year, 99% of Coles supermarkets and 100% of our produce that tastes great but may be flawed in distribution centres were connected to either SecondBite or appearance. The products are not only excellent value but Foodbank. The number of stores connected to the program also help to reduce food waste. 1 SecondBite uses the conversion of total kilograms donated multiplied by two to determine equivalent meals. Foodbank uses the conversion of total kilograms donated divided by 0.555 to determine equivalent meals. 2 % is calculated using data provided by our waste removal contractor (tonnes). Food waste (diverted) divided by total food waste (diverted and landfill) removed. 64 Coles Group Limited 2020 Sustainability Report Other waste reduction We are working with our suppliers to reduce waste in the supply chain. Plastic crates are used across our fresh produce and meat supply chains, replacing some corrugated cardboard, waxed cardboard and expanded polystyrene boxes. As well as reducing waste, these crates help reduce product damage, which also cuts down on food waste. Overview We are gradually transferring liners in our loose avocado cartons from plastic to paper; however, this has been impacted by availability as a result of COVID-19. When implemented, the paper liners will be recycled back of Foodbank volunteers Emma and Nat with food to be delivered to Sustainable communities disadvantaged people during COVID-19. house in our supermarkets. Online customers can return soft plastics with their customer In FY20, we trialled our first zero waste to landfill supermarket service agent for recycling through REDcycle. at Wentworth Point, New South Wales. The trial examined how in-store processes impact on waste and tested In FY20, more than 360 million pieces (1.5 million kilograms) opportunities to partner with new facilities to use waste as of flexible plastic was collected from our stores by REDcycle. a resource, diverting packaged and unpackaged food, This is an increase of 59% compared with FY19. cardboard, plastic, metal, glass, waxed boxes, polystyrene and timber from landfill. Since the REDcycle program began in 2011, Coles has Sustainable products diverted more than one billion pieces (4,300 tonnes) of We have been working towards diverting 90% of our flexible plastic from landfill across Australia. supermarket waste from landfill by 2022 but progress to meeting this target has been constrained by a range of In FY20, we announced that REDcycle would receive a issues including insufficient recycling industry solutions for all $430,000 grant from the Coles Nurture Fund to purchase supermarket waste streams in Australia. We are developing new processing equipment and three new vehicles to new targets which will consider industry achievements to support increased collection and recycling of soft plastic date together with planned industry goals and programs. across Australia. Sustainable environmental practices In FY20, we diverted 79% of the Group’s waste from landfill, The soft plastic collected from Coles by REDcycle program compared with 74% diversion in FY19. This improvement is recycled by three Australian manufacturers: primarily resulted from our focus on managing food waste • Replas, based in Ballarat, Victoria, which manufactures with donations to SecondBite increasing by 21%, donations a range of recycled products including indoor and for animal feed increasing by 42% and the use of organics outdoor furniture, bollards, and signage; bins (for composting or renewable energy production) increasing by 45%. • Close the Loop, based in Somerton, Victoria, which utilises REDcycle material as a component of recycled Partnering with REDcycle asphalt additive for road infrastructure known as Tonerplas; and In FY20, soft plastic recycling collection, provided under the REDcycle program, was available in all Coles supermarkets. • Plastic Forests, based in Albury, New South Wales, Customers can recycle plastic bags, as well as other soft which manufacturers mini wheel stops, air conditioner Our metrics and data plastic packaging that cannot be recycled through most mounting blocks and garden edging. household kerbside recycling services. Total waste diverted from landfill Food waste diverted from landfill2 79 % 65% 65 Coles Group Limited 2020 Sustainability Report David from Plastic Forests (right) shows Tumbarumba beef farmer Steve McKay the plastic fence posts being manufactured from recycled soft plastic with the help of a $300,000 grant from the Coles Nurture Fund. The posts provide an end-to-end solution for agricultural plastic such as silage wrap and soft plastics collected at Coles. 66 Coles Group Limited 2020 Sustainability Report Team members at our Coles Local stores in Rose Bay, New South Wales, and Glenferrie, Victoria, wear polo shirts made Pieces of flexible plastic from 65% recycled plastic bottles. They also have trolleys through REDcycle since 2011 made from 75% plastic reclaimed from manufacturing and offer free boxes as an alternative to bags. 1bn+ We also support container deposit schemes (CDS) in Queensland, New South Wales and the Northern Territory by providing collection points in our supermarkets and supermarket car parks. Western Australia is implementing a Overview CDS in 2020, Tasmania in 2022 and Victoria in 2023. Supporting a circular economy Sustainable promotions Through our partnership with REDcycle, plastic collected in supermarkets is converted into a range of products from Following customer feedback and in line with our Sustainable communities benches, to playground equipment and is even being sustainability ambitions, we have reviewed some of our trialled as road base. marketing promotions. In June 2020, we announced that recycling manufacturer, While very popular, some customers were concerned Plastic Forests, based in Albury, New South Wales, would about aspects of our collectable campaigns and their receive a $300,000 grant from the Coles Nurture Fund to impact on the environment. In view of this, our second manufacture fence posts from recycled plastic, providing Stikeez promotion, launched in FY20, included a recycling an end-to-end solution for agricultural plastic such as option where customers could return any duplicate, old or silage wrap and another recycling option for soft plastics spare Stikeez to Coles supermarkets to be recycled. They Sustainable products collected at Coles. In addition, Coles provided grants to were also wrapped in responsibly sourced paper that was two farming families at Tumbarumba, New South Wales, to fully recyclable in kerbside recycling bins. rebuild fencing using the recycled plastic posts after their These Stikeez are being recycled into anti-fatigue mats properties were impacted by bushfires in January 2020. which can be used by our checkout operators. Through the Coles Innovator’s Fund, $20,000 was also In July 2020, we launched the collectable promotion Coles provided to Plastic Forests, to test and trial new products, Little Treehouse™ book series. The paper and packaging including timber alternatives, made from recycled soft used to produce the books are FSC responsibly sourced plastic. Sustainable environmental practices and can be recycled at home like any paper product. In September 2019, the Simply Cups recycling program was introduced at our Store Support Centre in Victoria. The cups are collected and recycled into a range of products. Our metrics and data Customers were given the option of returning unwanted Stikeez to supermarkets. These are being recycled into anti-fatigue mats which can be used by our checkout operators. 67 Coles Group Limited 2020 Sustainability Report Sustainable packaging We understand our customers want us to reduce packaging and to make it easier for them to recycle. We also know that packaging, including plastic packaging, plays a key role in protecting products during transport, extending product life, keeping food safe and reducing food waste. Supporting a circular economy We are continuing work to have all Own Brand product packaging recyclable either through kerbside collection or National targets and frameworks in-store. Our original intent, to complete this by the end of 2020, has been impacted by a range of issues, including Coles is a signatory to the Australian Packaging Covenant challenges facing the recycling industry. and an active member of the Australian Packaging Covenant Organisation (APCO), tasked with delivering the Coles has now aligned with Australia’s 2025 National federal government’s 2025 National Packaging Targets. Packaging Targets. We understand our important role in driving change on behalf of our customers and will strive When developing packaging for Own Brand products, to take a leadership position working with industry and the including non-food, grocery, chilled and fresh produce, we APCO to support the targets’ delivery. are aligned with APCO’s Sustainable Packaging Guidelines, which provide 10 principles for packaging design: As part of this process Coles is engaging with Own Brand suppliers to better understand current packaging 1 Design for recovery recyclability and developing action plans to transition to recyclable packaging. 2 Optimise material efficiency “Coles is a highly engaged, proactive signatory to the Australian Packaging Covenant that is actively 3 Design to reduce product waste supporting the development of a more sustainable approach to packaging – both within its own operations 4 Eliminate hazardous materials and the wider Australian supply chain. Coles has shown exemplary leadership through its uptake of the Australasian Recycling Label (ARL) program and 5 Use recycled materials is working to apply the ARL on more packaging every day to help its customers recycle correctly. Through the 6 Use renewable materials provision of in-store REDcycle bins, Coles is providing national leadership for the collection of soft plastics, 7 Design to minimise litter helping to ensure thousands of tonnes of material stay out of landfill and can be used again in future products 8 Design for transport efficiency and infrastructure.” APCO CEO, Brooke Donnelly Recyclable packaging 9 Design for accessibility During FY20, we continued to review the recyclability of 10 Provide consumer information on sustainability Own Brand packaging both through kerbside recycling and through our in-store soft plastic program provided by REDcycle. The Packaging Recyclability Evaluation Portal tool is used to determine the recyclability of different packaging components. 68 Coles Group Limited 2020 Sustainability Report We have made significant progress in bakery packaging, continuing to replace non-recyclable black and silver trays with clear recyclable trays in our cake range. This means each year millions of previously non-recyclable trays can now be recycled in most kerbside collections. Own Brand macarons have moved to transparent recyclable trays from non-recyclable black trays, meaning thousands of trays per year are now recyclable. Recyclability of meat trays has long been a key focus area. Overview In 2012, Coles was the first Australian national supermarket to adopt Plantic™ meat trays, which are both recyclable and include renewable and recycled material. In FY20, Coles customer Suyin and her child Eric study the Australasian Recycling Plantic™ meat trays were used to pack a variety of Own Label (ARL) on Mum’s Sause. The ARL has been rolled out to more than 2,000 Sustainable communities Brand products, including some of our Own Brand fresh Own Brand products. beef, lamb, pork mince and poultry products. Working with our suppliers We continue to review product packaging with APCO and are looking for best-in-class sustainable solutions that are We are working with proprietary brands on product consistent and easily understood. recyclability, as well as reducing waste in the supply chain. In May 2020, new labels were introduced for some Own We joined with Unilever in May 2020 to promote its range Brand meat packaging. The old labels were attached to of products made from recycled plastic, which are also a backing that was not recyclable. The new labels do not recyclable through kerbside recycling. For every purchase Sustainable products have a backing, removing 35 tonnes a year from landfill. of selected Unilever products sold at Coles, Unilever The old paper labels also could not be removed from the contributed 10 cents to Clean Up Australia, raising $76,000 plastic meat packaging film. This meant the plastic film in total in FY20. could not be recycled through REDcycle. The new labels do Working with Kimberly-Clark, 48 tonnes of plastic will be not have to be removed from the plastic packaging and eliminated each year by removing the plastic wrap around can be recycled through REDcycle. the 32-pack toilet paper and instead placing them directly As well as increasing the amount of recyclable packaging, onto pallets for transport. Sustainable environmental practices we also use recycled content in some products. For Single use plastic products example, Coles spring water bottles have been made with 100% recycled plastic since 2014, and our fresh produce We understand the concerns customers have about plastic bags are made with at least 30% recycled content. both in packaging and as single use products. Some single use plastic products provide a function while others are In November 2019, Coles won the APCO’s Large Retailer unnecessary. Sector award for our achievements in sustainable packaging design, recycling initiatives and product During FY20, we stopped selling Own Brand plastic straws stewardship. in our supermarkets and replaced them with a range of reusable options. We no longer supply lightweight, single-use shopping bags, having replaced them with reusable options including the Helping customers recycle Our metrics and data Better Bag, which is made from 80% recycled content, and a range of community bags. Knowing what packaging is recyclable and how to recycle can be confusing. We will continue to look at alternatives for other single-use plastic products, working with our suppliers on potential We are striving to roll out the Australasian Recycling Label solutions. (ARL) for Own Brand products sold in Coles supermarkets. The ARL, which provides customers with information on how and where to recycle different packaging components, can now be found on more than 2,000 Own Brand products. We have also made it easier for customers to recycle soft plastics with the REDcycle soft plastics program operating in all Coles supermarkets. 69 Coles Group Limited 2020 Sustainability Report Our stakeholder engagement We aim to build stakeholder trust by being transparent, responsive and accountable. The following table includes an overview of our key stakeholder groups, how we engage with them and the outcomes of those engagements. STAKEHOLDER GROUP HOW WE ENGAGE HOW WE HAVE MADE A DIFFERENCE Team Team members are encouraged to provide feedback • Team member engagement continues members both formally and informally. We communicate to improve, with our engagement score through daily store, distribution centre and increasing by seven percentage points in support centre updates and emails, regular team FY20 alongside record participation of 81% meetings, internal social media, regular executive • More information about how we are making email communications, information sessions (retail a difference to our team members can be roundups) at store support centres and mysay, our sixfound on pages 14 to 26 monthly team member engagement survey. Customers We offer our customers a variety of channels to • On average 20 million customer transactions engage with Coles. These include in-store service across our business per week counters, online Tell Coles surveys, social media, • Flybuys covering 6.8 million active households market research and direct calls, letters and emails to the Coles Customer Care Centre. • 88.2% customer satisfaction for Supermarkets1 • During the year we supported customers during the impacts of COVID-19 (page 19) and extreme weather events (pages 42 and 43) • We are making a difference by providing customers with sustainable products (pages 47 to 57) Suppliers and Our engagement starts with onboarding and • More than 10,000 goods for resale suppliers manufacturers may then include meetings, site visits, audits and/ and many more indirect suppliers or training. Our online supplier portal contains • Enhanced the governance framework for information about our mandatory compliance Coles’ Ethical Sourcing Program standards, as well as other information. • $3.6 million in Coles Nurture Fund grants announced in FY20 • More information about how we are making a difference to our suppliers can be found on pages 33 to 37 Communities Coles operates and maintains 2,447 stores across • $139 million community investment in FY20 Australia, and we have a deep connection in • Equivalent of 33 million meals donated to many local and rural communities. To build positive, SecondBite and Foodbank in FY20 mutually beneficial relationships we support and engage with communities wherever we serve, • More information on how we are making a including not-for-profit organisations and charitable difference to communities across Australian program partners. Key engagement channels can be found on pages 38 to 43, and pages include local giving and fundraising, food donations, 49 to 51 team members volunteering and key partnerships and sponsorships that benefit communities. 1 Q4 FY20, as measured by Tell Coles. 70 Coles Group Limited 2020 Sustainability Report STAKEHOLDER GROUP HOW WE ENGAGE HOW WE HAVE MADE A DIFFERENCE Shareholders Our investment community comprises institutional • 449,652 shareholders in Coles Group Limited and investors, buy and sell-side analysts and retail as at 26 August 2020 investment shareholders. Key engagement channels include • In November 2019 held our first Annual community quarterly sales calls, half-year and full-year investor General Meeting since becoming an briefings (available to view via webcast on Coles’ ASX-listed entity Investor Centre) and ASX releases. • Responded to and assessed by global We engage indirectly with our investment community benchmarks including the Corporate Human Overview by responding to various investor questionnaires and Rights Benchmark, the Business Benchmark benchmarking assessments on environmental, social on Farm Animal Welfare, Know the Chain, and governance topics. and the Farm Animal Investment Risk and Return Benchmark and FTSE4Good Sustainable communities Government Due to the scale of our business, we regularly • Participation in public policy development engage with Federal, state and local governments including on plastic packaging, climate on issues that affect Coles, our customers and our change and health and nutrition suppliers. We participate in public policy discussions • Coles is participating in the Supermarket and development on various topics through a variety Taskforce working group to respond to the of channels such as responding to government challenges presented by COVID-19 inquiries, working groups, industry associations and forums. • Represented on the Trusted Information Sharing Network for Critical Infrastructure Our engagement is direct or through membership Resilience, Healthy Food Partnership, and Fair Sustainable products of representative organisations. Work Ombudsman Horticulture Reference Group Trade and We work with peak national bodies representing • Participation in the Australian Beef industry farmers, manufacturers and suppliers across Australia Sustainability Framework, an initiative of the associations on issues of mutual interest. We are members of Red Meat Advisory Council and managed by industry associations, which provides us with the Meat and Livestock Australia opportunity to participate in forums and contribute • Members of the Australian Retailers to public policy debate. Association, Business Council of Australia, Sustainable environmental practices and Retail Drinks Australia Media We regularly engage directly with representatives • More than 25,000 media stories generated in from print, radio, TV, social and online media at a FY20 with an audience reach of 8.2 million local and national level, as well as through media releases and webcasts. Unions We engage with unions that represent our team • In FY20 we formed the Ethical Retail Supply members and the supply chain workforce. The Chain Accord to improve and protect the terms and conditions of employment of 90% of rights of workers within the horticulture supply Coles’ team members are set through enterprise chain bargaining agreements. We recognise the right of team members to negotiate either individually or collectively, with or without the involvement of third Our metrics and data parties. Standards and We work closely with industry standards and • Represented on the Global Food Safety certification certification bodies across our products and services. Initiative Australia and New Zealand bodies • Independent certification programs including Fairtrade, Rainforest Alliance/UTZ, Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil • Sedex and Fair Farms NonTo advance positive outcomes for people and • Signatory to the Australian Packaging government our planet, we engage with non-government Covenant organisations organisations and research bodies on diverse topics • Worked with the CSIRO in FY20 on supply and research such as human rights, animal welfare, climate chain resilience bodies change, and health and nutrition. 71 Coles Group Limited 2020 Sustainability Report Aligning with global goals We support external sustainability goals and frameworks including the United Nations (UN) Global Compact, the UN Sustainable Development Goals and the UN Women’s Empowerment Principles. We are a supporter of the Task force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures and report in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards: Core option. UN Global Compact Coles joined the UN Global Compact (UNGC) in FY19. The UNGC’s Ten Principles are derived from the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Labour Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development, and the UN Convention Against Corruption. This Sustainability Report serves as our Communication on Progress on how we are implementing the UNGC’s principles and supporting its broader development objectives in the areas of human rights, labour, anti-corruption and the environment. UN Global Compact Principles 1. Human rights 2. Human rights 3. Labour 4. Labour 5. Labour Businesses should Businesses should Businesses Businesses should Businesses should support and respect make sure that they should uphold uphold the uphold the effective the protection are not complicit the freedom of elimination of all abolition of child of internationally in human rights association and forms of forced and labour. proclaimed human abuses. the effective compulsory labour. rights. recognition of the right to collective bargaining. 6. Labour 7. Environment 8. Environment 9. Environment 10. Anti-corruption Businesses should Businesses Businesses should Businesses should Businesses should uphold the should support undertake encourage the work against elimination of a precautionary initiatives to development corruption in all its discrimination approach to promote greater and diffusion of forms, including in respect of environmental environmental environmentally extortion and bribery. employment and challenges. responsibility. friendly occupation. technologies. Other global goals Information relating to the UN Women’s Empowerment Principles can be found in the Better Together section of this report. We have responded to the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures in our 2020 Annual Report and the climate change section of this report. This sustainability report is prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option and our GRI index can be found on the Group’s website 72 Coles Group Limited 2020 Sustainability Report UN Sustainable Development Goals The 17 UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are the UN’s plan for a better future for people and the planet. Coles’ purpose to sustainably feed all Australians to help them lead healthier, happier lives is aligned with and supports the achievement of the UN SDGs as detailed below. Some UN SDGs align with several elements of our Sustainability Strategy such as SDG 17 which is supported by sustainable communities and sustainable products, and SDGs 14 and 15 which are supported by sustainable products and sustainable environmental practices. Overview Sustainable communities Sustainable products In May 2020, we were named by the World Benchmarking Alliance as one of the world’s 2,000 most influential companies with ability to impact the achievement of the UN SDGs. Sustainable Sustainable Sustainable environmental communities products practices Sustainable environmental practices As a major retailer, providing access Responsible Consumption and Our investments in renewable to healthy, nutritious and affordable Production aligns with our plans energy, energy efficiency and food and donating unsold edible to reduce waste, source products alternative refrigerants all advance food to Australians in need, supports ethically and improve the the objectives of Climate Action. We these goals and reduces food waste. sustainability of Own Brand product are developing a Climate Change These goals are also at the core of packaging. During FY20, we released Strategy setting out further actions our business purpose to sustainably a new Human Rights Strategy and including greenhouse gas emission feed all Australians to help them lead updated our Ethical Sourcing Policy reduction targets. healthier, happier lives. and Supplier Requirements. Our metrics and data We harness the power of partnerships Our Own Brand Responsibly Sourced to deliver sustainable outcomes to Seafood Program and Own Brand local communities and in our supply products certified to third-party chains. standards support the objectives of Life below water and Life on land. In FY20, through our Better Together and health and safety programs, we supported the goals of Gender Equality, Reduced Inequality and Decent Work and Economic Growth. 73 Coles Group Limited 2020 Sustainability Report Our data Environment Scope 11 Greenhouse gas emissions Scope 21 Greenhouse gas emissions Scope 32 Greenhouse gas emissions (tonnes CO2 -e) (tonnes CO2 -e) (tonnes CO2 -e) 1,463,378 1,422,681 348,507 312,650 298,429 1,333,825 1,308,665 322,749 282,936 287,437 302,935 275,640 350000 1500000 350000 300000 1250000 300000 250000 250000 1000000 200000 200000 750000 150000 150000 500000 100000 100000 50000 XXX 250000 XXX 50000 XXX 0Energy (PJ) 0 Electricity (kWh) 0 FY17 FY18 FY19 FY20 FY17 FY18 FY19 FY20 FY17 FY18 FY19 FY20 Energy (PJ) Electricity (kWh) 7.78 7.76 1.75bn 1.72bn 6.73 6.60 1.61bn3 1.61bn FY17 FY18 FY19 FY20 FY17 FY18 FY19 FY20 Water use (ML) Waste (tonnes) – disposed(3) and recycled(4) Water use (ML)4 Waste (tonnes) – disposed5 and recycled6 Disposed Recycled 294,844 240,982 256,946 233,719 3,415 3,425 3,363 3500 300000 3000 2,721 250000 2500 92,596 91,604 200000 85,278 76,742 2000 150000 1500 100000 1000 500 50000 0 0 FY17 FY18 FY19 FY20 FY17 FY18 FY19 FY20 1 Scope 1 and 2 data includes emissions for businesses where we have operational control under the NGER Act 2 Scope 3 data includes the indirect component of our Scope 1 and 2 emissions such as transmitting the electricity we use, emissions from waste disposal and air travel 3 Data has been adjusted since previously reported 4 In FY20, Coles Express water consumption data has been calculated based on water invoices received 5 Waste to landfill 6 Material diverted from landfill eg. reused, recycled, repurposed, composted or converted to energy 74 Coles Group Limited 2020 Sustainability Report Overview Health & Safety Community Sustainable communities Total recordable injury frequency rate (TRIFR)(1)(2) Community contributions ($ million) direct4 and indirect5 Total recordable injury frequency rate (TRIFR)1 Community contributions ($ million) Indirect direct4 and indirect5 Direct 38.8 139 34.4 14 1156 27.82 125 14 92 22.73 102 9 69 Sustainable products 83 9 60 FY17 FY18 FY19 FY20 FY17 FY18 FY19 FY20 Sustainable environmental practices Indigenous Team employment(1) members 7,8 Indigenous employment 4,760 4,102 3,581 2,872 Our metrics and data FY17 FY18 FY19 FY20 1 TRIFR is the number of lost time injuries and medical treatment injuries per million hours worked 2 Restated due to maturation of data 3 FY20 TRIFR was calculated using Period 9 FY19 hours worked to reflect normalised hours over the financial year 4 Direct contributions include cash, time, in-kind contributions and management costs. Coles references the London Benchmarking Group (LBG) framework for reporting community contributions 5 Indirect contributions are those made by others where a Coles business facilitated and supported the contribution, such as customer donations to an appeal at point of sale. Coles references the LBG framework for reporting community contributions 6 Total has been rounded down to the nearest million 7 Excludes Retail Ready Operations Australia (RROA) processing plant team members, Chef Fresh New South Wales, Chef Fresh Victoria and the China Office 8 As at 28 June 2020 75 Coles Group Limited 2020 Sustainability Report Team members (continued)1 Team members by category and diversity2 All salaried team members4 Non-executive Executive Team and (Managers/ Directors3 General Managers3 Professional) All team members4 Total 7 71 11,953 118,593 Gender Female 3 (42.9%) 28 (39.4%) 5,143 (43.0%) 60,160 (50.7%) Male 4 (57.1%) 43 (60.6%) 6,810 (57.0%) 58,433 (49.3%) Age group Under 30 – – 2,484 (20.8%) 59,119 (49.9%) 30-39 – 9 (12.7%) 4,243 (35.5%) 22,723 (19.2%) 40-49 2 (28.6%) 41 (57.7%) 3,205 (26.8%) 17,107 (14.4%) 50 and Over 5 (71.4%) 21 (29.6%) 2,021 (16.9%) 19,644 (16.6%) Team members – employment type, gender and region4 Permanent Permanent Permanent total Full-time Part-time Fixed term Casual Total Total 72,062 24,800 47,262 979 45,552 118,593 Gender Female 37,715 10,406 27,309 546 21,899 60,160 Male 34,347 14,394 19,953 433 23,653 58,433 Region ACT 991 328 663 3 715 1,709 NSW 20,315 6,658 13,657 165 13,365 33,845 NT 623 259 364 2 427 1,052 QLD 14,967 5,132 9,835 144 8,666 23,777 SA 4,344 1,473 2,871 28 3,274 7,646 TAS 1,360 395 965 37 1,021 2,418 VIC 20,850 7,707 13,143 515 13,652 35,017 WA 8,612 2,848 5,764 85 4,432 13,129 Team member turnover by employment type Average Headcount4 Turnover5 % Turnover Female Male Female Male Female Male Overall % Permanent total 37,715 34,347 4,034 4,685 10.7% 13.6% 12.1% Permanent full-time 10,406 14,394 729 1,395 7.0% 9.7% 8.6% Permanent part-time 27,309 19,953 3,305 3,290 12.1% 16.5% 14.0% Fixed Term 546 433 98 95 17.9% 21.9% 19.7% Casual 21,899 23,653 8,130 9,930 37.1% 42.0% 39.6% Overall 60,160 58,433 12,262 14,710 20.4% 25.2% 22.7% 1 Excludes Retail Ready Operations Australia (RROA) processing plant team members, Chef Fresh New South Wales, Chef Fresh Victoria and the China Office 2 These positions are defined through job evaluation methodology 3 As at 28 June 2020 4 Weekly average from 1 July 2019 to 28 June 2020 (all numbers are rounded) 5 Turnover relates to 1 July 2019 to 28 June 2020 76 Coles Group Limited 2020 Sustainability Report Team members (continued)1 Team member hires and turnover by gender, age group and region2,3 Team member Team member new hires turnover Total 36,745 (31.0%) 26,972 (22.7%) Gender Female 16,518 (27.5%) 12,262 (20.4%) Overview Male 20,227 (34.6%) 14,710 (25.2%) Age group Under 30 27,083 (45.8%) 17,496 (29.6%) 30-39 4,590 (20.2%) 4,480 (19.7%) Sustainable communities 40-49 2,547 (14.9%) 2,503 (14.6%) 50 and Over 2,525 (12.9%) 2,493 (12.7%) Region ACT 644 (37.7%) 604 (35.4%) NSW 10,837 (32.0%) 7,930 (23.4%) NT 399 (38.0%) 386 (36.7%) QLD 7,319 (30.8%) 5,262 (22.1%) SA 2,129 (27.8%) 1,435 (18.8%) Sustainable products TAS 747 (30.9%) 454 (18.8%) VIC 10,698 (30.6%) 7,607 (21.7%) WA 3,972 (30.3%) 3,294 (25.1%) Gender balance FY19 female FY20 female Sustainable environmental practices Population4 Target representation representation Board of Directors 5 30% 37.5% 37.5% Executive Leadership Team 6 38.5% 33.3% 40% women in Senior Executives7 40.0% 39.4% leadership positions All leadership roles 8 33.3% 34.2% All management roles9 42.6% 43.3% All roles10,11 51.1% 50.7% Our metrics and data 1 Excludes Retail Ready Operations Australia (RROA) processing plant team members, Chef Fresh New South Wales, Chef Fresh Victoria and the China Office 2 New hires and turnover relates to 1 July 2019 to 28 June 2020 3 New hire and turnover percentages use the weekly average headcount from 1 July 2019 to 28 June 2020 4 As at 28 June 2020 unless otherwise stated 5 Includes Chief Executive Officer 6 Executive Leadership Team (ELT) and Chief Executive Officer 7 ELT and General Managers 8 ELT, General Managers, team members pay grade eight and above, and Supermarket store managers 9 ELT, General Managers, team members pay grade eight and above, Supermarket store managers and Liquor store managers, Coles Express site managers, Supermarket department managers, and people leaders in our distribution centres 10 Weekly average from 1 July 2019 to 28 June 2020 (all numbers are rounded) 11 Total workplace 77 Independent Limited Assurance Statement to the Management and Directors of Coles Group Limited Our Conclusion: Ernst & Young (‘EY’, ‘we’) was engaged by Coles Group Limited (‘Coles’) to undertake limited assurance as defined by Australian Audit Standards, hereafter referred to as a ‘review’, over selected disclosures included in Coles’ 2020 Sustainability Report (‘the Report’) for the year ended 30 June 2020. Based on our review, nothing has come to our attention that caused us to believe that the selected disclosures presented below, have not been prepared and presented fairly, in all material respects, in accordance with the criteria detailed below. What our review covered: Our approach to conducting the review We reviewed Coles’ selected disclosures, listed below, as disclosed in We conducted this review in accordance with the Australian Standard the Report, for the year ended 30 June 2020. on Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information (‘ASAE 3000’), Assurance Engagements on Selected Disclosures Page Greenhouse Gas Statements (‘ASAE 3410’) and the terms of reference for this engagement as agreed with Coles on 9 April 2020 and Indigenous employment (Aboriginal amended on 29 July 2020. and Torres Strait Islander peoples) 75 (Headcount) Summary of review procedures performed A review consists of making enquiries, primarily of persons Total average workforce in FY20 (by responsible for preparing the selected disclosures and related People gender, region, age and employment 76 information, and applying analytical and other review procedures type) (Headcount, %) including: Women in leadership positions ► conducting interviews with key personnel to understand Coles’ 24, 77 process for collecting, collating and reporting the selected (Headcount, %) disclosures during the reporting period; Health and Total recordable injury frequency rate ► checking that the Criteria has been reasonably applied in 75 Safety (TRIFR) preparing the selected disclosures; for example, comparing the classification of safety incidents against Coles’ Standard Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas Operating Procedures to determine classification accuracy; 74 emissions (tCO2-e) ► checking the reasonableness of assumptions; ► inquiring of personnel to identify risks of underreporting and Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions 74 quality controls; (tCO2-e) ► undertaking data analytics to check the reasonableness of the Environment data supporting disclosures; Energy consumption (GJ) 74 ► performing recalculations of performance metrics to confirm Water consumption (ML) 74 quantities stated were replicable; ► assessing evidence on a sample basis; for example, reports of Waste recycled and disposed audits of suppliers to confirm the existence and country of audit 74 (Tonnes) location; ► checking aggregation of selected disclosures and transcription to Number of suppliers participating in the Report; and the ethical sourcing program as at 30 30 ► checking the appropriateness of the presentation relating to the June 2020 (Number) selected disclosures. Supply Due to restrictions on movement resulting from COVID-19 our Number of independent audits Chain procedures did not include a site visit or work at Coles’ head office. conducted during the period 1 July 31 2019 to 30 June 2020 (Number) We believe that the evidence obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our limited assurance conclusion. Product safety recalls (Number) 52 Performance statements made in Limited Assurance relation to the recyclability of Coles Procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement vary in Packaging Own Brand packaging within the nature and timing from, and are less in extent than for, a reasonable 69 assurance engagement. Consequently, the level of assurance ‘Sustainable packaging’ section of the Sustainability Report for the FY20 obtained in a limited assurance engagement is substantially lower period. than the assurance that would have been obtained had a reasonable assurance engagement been performed. While we considered the Criteria applied by Coles effectiveness of management’s internal controls when determining the In preparing the selected disclosures, Coles applied: nature and extent of our procedures, our assurance engagement was ► Specific criteria from the Global Reporting Initiative Standards not designed to provide assurance on internal controls. Our ► Section 19 of the National Greenhouse and Energy Reporting Act procedures did not include testing controls or performing procedures 2007 and subordinate legislation relating to checking aggregation or calculation of data within IT ► Coles’ publicly disclosed criteria as detailed in the Report. systems. Use of our Assurance Statement Key responsibilities We disclaim any assumption of responsibility for any reliance on this EY’s responsibility and independence assurance statement, or on the selected disclosures to which it Our responsibility was to express a limited assurance conclusion on relates, to any persons other than the management and the Directors selected disclosures included in the Report based on the evidence we of Coles, or for any purpose other than that for which it was prepared. obtained. We were also responsible for maintaining our independence Our review included web-based information that was available via and confirm that we have met the requirements of the APES 110 Code web links as of the date of this assurance statement. We provide no of Ethics for Professional Accountants including independence and assurance over changes to the content of this web-based information have the required competencies and experience to conduct this after the date of this assurance statement. assurance engagement. Coles’ responsibility Coles’ management was responsible for selecting the Criteria, and fairly presenting the selected disclosures in accordance with that Criteria. This responsibility included establishing and maintaining Ernst & Young Meg Fricke internal controls, adequate records and making estimates that are Melbourne, Australia Partner reasonable in the circumstances. 24 September 2020 A member firm of Ernst & Young Global Limited Liability limited by a scheme approved under Professional Standards Legislation Coles Group Limited 2020 Sustainability Report About this Sustainability Report Overview Reporting scope Report boundary Sustainable communities Unless otherwise stated, our Sustainability Report covers the In this report, the terms ‘Coles’, ‘the Group’, ‘our business’, period 1 July 2019 to 30 June 2020 (FY20) for the Group. FY20 ‘organisation’, ‘we’, ‘us’, ‘our’ and ‘ourselves’ refer to Coles financial performance data included in this report aligns Group Limited and its related bodies corporate. with the retail calendar (1 July 2019 to 28 June 2020). All This report contains information for all Coles’ wholly owned financial data in this Sustainability Report is in Australian businesses as at the date of this report and, for wholly dollars. owned businesses that were part of the Group during the The report focuses on topics that matter most to our current or comparative period, information up to the date Sustainable products stakeholders and our business, as determined through our ownership was transferred (unless otherwise stated). 2020 materiality assessment. Information presented for Coles Supermarkets includes The structure of the report reflects the focus areas of information for Chef Fresh New South Wales, Chef Fresh our Sustainability Strategy: Sustainable communities, Victoria and Retail Ready Operations Australia (RROA). Sustainable products, and Sustainable environmental RROA is our meat processing facility located in Erskine Park, practices. Material topics are grouped under these areas. New South Wales. Chef Fresh Victoria is the value-added The report has been prepared in accordance with the facility, providing convenience food solutions, located in Sustainable environmental practices GRI Standards: Core option. The GRI Content Index for this Geelong, Victoria. Chef Fresh New South Wales refers to our report, which also contains our alignment with the UNGC ready-meals facility located in Banksmeadow, New South Principles and the UN Sustainable Development Goals, is Wales, which was acquired in May 2020. available on the Group’s website: In addition, this report includes information relating to the  colesgroup.com.au/sustainability retail liquor business that forms part of Coles’ incorporated joint venture with Australian Venue Co Pty Limited. Anyone seeking to use information in this Sustainability Report to draw conclusions from the data presented should Corporate directory email investor.relations@colesgroup.com.au for assistance. Registered office: 800-838 Toorak Road Hawthorn East VIC 3123 Our metrics and data Telephone: +61 3 9829 5111 Website: www.colesgroup.com.au Email: sustainability@coles.com.au Feedback We welcome feedback on this report. For more information or to provide comments, please contact us at: sustainability@coles.com.au 79 Coles Group Limited ABN 11 004 089 936 800-838 Toorak Road Hawthorn East VIC 3123
