IBA Group 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report IBA Group 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2020 IBA Group Contents Message from IBA Group Chairman Section 1. Managing the Company 1.1. Business Overview 1.2. Mission, Vision, and Values 1.3. Organizational Structure 1.4. Business Ethics and Practice Section 2. Developing a Sustainable Business 2.1. Sustainability Management 2.2. Contribution to the UN Sustainable Development Goals 2.3. Stakeholder Engagement Section 3. Implementing Innovations 3.1. Service Quality Management 3.2. Mobile Technologies 3.3. Cloud Technologies 3.4. Robotic Process Automation (RPA) Section 4. Making Responsible Decisions 4.1. Environmental Protection 4.2. Employee Support 4.3. IT Education 4.4. Charity and Inclusivity Appendices Appendix 1. About This Report Appendix 2. Awards and Recognition Appendix 3. Terms and Abbreviations Appendix 4. GRI Standards Content Index Appendix 5. Feedback Form Appendix 6. Contact Information IBA Group 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2020 IBA Group Company’s History 2019 IAOP includes IBA Group in the Best of The Global Outsourcing 100 2018 IBA Group joins the UN Global Compact 2017 IBA Group opens IBA Bulgaria in 2001 2002 Burgas IBA opens IBA Gomel IBA establishes its training center that eventually turns into IBA Institute 2016 IBA Group unveils its campus in Belarus’ High 2000 2005 Tech Park IBA opens IBA IT GmbH in IBA relocates its headquarters to Prague, Germany Czech Republic, transforming IBA to IBA Group. IBA CZ expands to Brno 2015 IBAA Group opens IBA Slovakia in Bratislava 1999 2006 IBA opens IBA CZ, a center of excellence in Prague, Czech Republic. IBA Group opens IBA Rus in Moscow. 2013 IBA Group included in the Leaders IBA Group opens IBA South Africa in IBA receives Government Quality category of The Global Outsourcing 100 Johannesburg Award for the first time for the first time 1998 2011 2012 IBA Group wins at European IT & Software IBA Group opens IBA Ukraine in Kiev IBA opens IBA USA in the US Excellence Awards for the first time and IBA UK in London 1993 JV IBA founded in Minsk, Belarus IBA Group 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2020 IBA Group 2019 Factsheet 12 IBA Group IBA Group opened an innovative SAP Next-Gen Lab at the Belarusian 25+years in IBA began cooperating with the Minsk office of the United IAOP included IBA Group in the Best of The Global Outsourcing 100, 5 centers of has offices in State University. international Nations High the list of the best excellence in 12 countries IT business Commissioner for outsourcing 5 countries Refugees. providers for the past decade. Since 2008, IBA Group has been selected for Software 500, a 40+projects for IBA Group launched tapXphone, the innovative 3,000+ IT and business professionals In 2019, IBA Group won at European IT & Software Excellence Awards ranking of the customers solution that for the seventh world’s largest in 40+ turns a time. software and countries smartphone into a service providers payment terminal. IBA Group 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2020 IBA Group Message from IBA Group Chairman IBA Group became a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact in 2018. Joining this important initiative, we pledged our commitment to the UN Global Compact (UNGC) and its Ten Principles. In this Report, we show what we did in 2019 to achieve the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). IBA Group maintains a special focus on attracting university graduates, enabling them to connect, grow, I am convinced that a business today should act in the and develop a career at an international IT company. interests of sustainability. The current pandemic crisis highlighted the importance of joint efforts towards We implement technological innovations in custom sustainable development, and IBA Group proceeded projects, proprietary solutions, and internal with contributing to quality education; decent work processes. The IBA’s self-service banking solutions and economic growth; responsible production and enhance the capacity of domestic financial consumption; peace, justice, and strong institutions; institutions and expand access to banking services. In and other SDGs. 2019, IBA Group launched a solution that enables a smartphone to work as a point of sales (POS). This year, we focused on employee empowerment, education, community relations, and environmental In terms of responsible consumption and production, protection. In addition, we provided our support to we acquire and install the most efficient equipment healthcare institutions in the countries of presence, and devices, as well as adopt sustainable practices in which we are going to reflect in our next year’s our operation. report. We expanded our cooperation with international Summing up the results of 2019, I would like to organizations. Following a meeting at our office in the mention that the IAOP included IBA Group in the Best IBA Group’s campus, we began cooperating with the of The Global Outsourcing 100, the list of the best Minsk office of the United Nations High outsourcing providers for the past decade. Commissioner for Refugees. IT Europa selected IBA Group a winner in the Navigating uncertainty and a rapidly changing reality, European IT & Software Excellence Awards 2019, the we adjust our plans and practices to the new norms leading pan-European awards for resellers, ISVs, that came to life in the course of the pandemic crisis. Solution Providers, and Systems Integrators. We won However, we intend to maintain our commitment to the award in the innovative category of Big Data, IoT, transparency and accountability during this and Analytics. challenging time, and to use the Ten Principles as our guide in sustainable development. We confirmed our reputation of a solid employer with one of the lowest attrition rates in the industry. Sergei Levteev Our IT and business professionals receive education IBA Group Chairman at the training centers of leading IT providers. IBA teams work in a healthy and comfortable environment. They practice sports and participate in sport competitions, retreats, and tours. IBA Group 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2020 IBA Group Managing the Company Business Overview IBA Group is one of the largest IT service providers in Eastern Europe, performing onshore, nearshore, and offshore projects with nearly 3,000 professionals. Headquartered in Prague, Czech Republic, IBA Group operates in 12 countries. The company’s development centers are in Belarus, the Czech Republic, Bulgaria, Kazakhstan, and Slovakia. The sales offices are in the United States, Germany, Great Britain, Russia, Ukraine, South Africa, and Cyprus. IBA Group is a joint stock company. Its branches are joint stock companies and limited liability companies. For more than 25 years, IBA Group has been working in the IT industry. As the company is a partner of world IT leaders, it is able to introduce innovative technologies at local enterprises in the countries of presence. However, the company’s innovativeness depends on its partners because IBA Group’s services and solutions are based on technologies of world IT leaders. IBA Group serves customers in more than 40 countries, focusing primarily on the B2B segment. IBA Group improves its technological expertise, solves customers’ business problems in the fields of digital transformation, business process automation, analytics, and cloud and mobility technologies. IBA Group’s services and solutions are designed for: • IT companies • Manufacturing enterprises IBA Group has unique expertise, optimized business processes, • Transport companies and good reputation. IBA Group improves its business processes, • Financial institutions • Trade organizations providing customers with high quality services. • Utility enterprises • Mining industry • Public institutions • Educational institutions. Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Business Overview | Mission, Vision, and Values | Organizational Structure | Business Ethics and Practice IBA Group 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2020 IBA Group Managing the Company Business Overview Services and Solutions Cooperating with the world IT leaders, IBA Group offers innovative, reliable, and secure IT services and solutions for digital business transformation. The company covers a full cycle of software development and provides migration of legacy systems to new platforms. Focus Areas • Solutions for the enterprise • Mainframe and multiplatform software • Intelligent automation • Data science and machine learning (ML) • Cloud solutions • Business application development In addition, the IBA Group’s portfolio includes a wide range of software solutions for retail banking, an automated fare collection system for public transport, an HR management platform, and a cloud platform. Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Business Overview | Mission, Vision, and Values | Organizational Structure | Business Ethics and Practice IBA Group 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2020 IBA Group Managing the Company Business Overview IBA Group in Global IT Industry In 2019, the global IT services market exceeded $1.03 trillion. Compared to 2018, the world IT market grew by 0.5%. In Belarus, where IBA Group has its largest development centers, the IT industry is one of the most dynamically developing areas of the economy. The share of export of computer services in the aggregate export of services of Belarus grew by a factor of 1.8 since 2015 and amounted to 21.9% in 2019 (18% in 2018). The IT sector has been the main driver of economic growth for the past seven years. Belarus is listed among the world leaders in the export of IT services per capita with $108. In the US, this figure is $58, in India $40, and in China $20. The IT industry generates the third biggest number of jobs in Belarus. More than 60 percent of IT specialists are engaged in outsourcing services. IBA Group is one of the largest IT service providers in Central and Eastern Europe. In 2019, the company’s revenue was $102.7 million with a 10.4 percent growth from the previous year. In 2019, IBA IBA Group is a member of IAOP® , Belarus High-Tech Park, Group continued to strengthen its expertise in mainframe software, business application development, intelligent automation, cloud, and the Scientific and Technological Association Infopark. and payment solutions. The company expanded its presence in the United States, opening a representative office on the East Coast. IAOP listed IBA Group in the Best of The Global Outsourcing 100, the list of the best outsourcing providers for the past decade, and IT Europa selected IBA a winner in the European IT & Software Excellence Awards (For more information, see Appendix 2. Awards and Recognitions). Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Business Overview | Mission, Vision, and Values | Organizational Structure | Business Ethics and Practice IBA Group 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2020 IBA Group Managing the Company Mission, Vision, and Values Mission Co-creating a SMART future Vision Engineering customer-centric solutions through trusted relationships & technology that bridge the legacy of the past with the landscape of the future. Our Values Personal We are more than a solutions provider. We are a partner who puts you at the center of everything we do. We listen, care, and deliver the best for you, every time. Collaborative Our success is your success. We partner with you to make your business work better. Reliable Our experienced engineers are driven by excellence and work tirelessly for you. Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Business Overview | Mission, Vision, and Values | Organizational Structure | Business Ethics and Practice IBA Group 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2020 IBA Group Managing the Company Mission, Vision, and Values Strategy, Goals, and Tasks The main strategic goal of IBA Group is sustainable business development, with a 15% revenue growth rate and a profitability of at least 20% for each year. To obtain long-term benefits for shareholders, customers, employees, partners, and communities, IBA Group sets the following business objectives. • Improve industry expertise to ensure a thorough understanding of key customers’ businesses and to be able to provide end-to-end services, resulting in the company’s ability to compete for international projects of global companies • Strengthen expertise in innovative technologies and methodologies with their subsequent use in software and hardware solutions • Improve marketing activities to increase the efficiency of investments in proprietary products and solutions. This includes research and analysis of market segments to determine trends, consumption volumes, price levels, economic and political environment, and technical requirements for products • Invest in the development of employee competencies, increasing employee satisfaction and motivation • Meet quality indicators set for products and project deliverables to achieve customer satisfaction • Develop G2B and G2C services using a model of public-private partnership and investing in the development of IBA Data Center • Support IT education in the countries of presence as one of the main sources of the company’s human resources. Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Business Overview | Mission, Vision, and Values | Organizational Structure | Business Ethics and Practice IBA Group 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2020 IBA Group Managing the Company Mission, Vision, and Values Goals • Accumulate vertical industry expertise, and maintain and expand a portfolio of the IBA’s core competencies • Systematically build up efforts to establish and maintain partnerships and mutually beneficial relationships with world IT leaders • Foster employee motivation and loyalty through social and development support. Goals for 2020 IBA Group set the following goals for 2020. • Increase stability and reduce risks through business diversification, and expansion to new markets and new industries • Provide high quality services and solutions to ensure customer satisfaction and attract new customers • Support employees through competitive salaries and a benefit package. To solve emerging tasks, IBA Group took the following actions. • Expanded the range of services through the use of innovative technologies • Created new products and solutions using advanced technologies • Provided high quality integrated services to customers • Supported employees by raising salaries in line with productivity growth and giving access to the benefit package • Organized certification and recertification of IBA Group’s development Our strategy is successful partnership. centers to comply with international standards • Supported universities in IT training by creating special courses, equipping research laboratories, and providing support to IT championships and other events. Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Business Overview | Mission, Vision, and Values | Organizational Structure | Business Ethics and Practice IBA Group 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2020 IBA Group Managing the Company Organizational Structure The highest governance body of IBA Group is the Board of Directors. The IBA Group board outlines the company’s strategic objectives, elects Chairman of the Board, and appoints the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and the directors of IBA Group’s member companies. The Chairman and CEO is responsible for translation of the company’s strategic goals into action. Functional Structure IBA Group incorporates development centers, sales offices, training and technical centers, and other legal entities. • IBA IT Park, Development Center, Minsk, Belarus • IBA Gomel, Development Center, Gomel, Belarus • IBA Institute, Minsk, Belarus • IBA CZ, Development Center, Prague, Brno, and Ostrava, Czech Republic • IBA Slovakia, Bratislava, Slovakia • IBA IT GmbH, Kierspe — Rönsahl, Germany • IBA USA, San Jose, CA, USA • IBA Rus, Moscow, Russian Federation • IBA Kz, IBA Group Office and Development Center, Astana, Kazakhstan • IBA Ukraine, Kiev, Ukraine • IBA UK, London, United Kingdom • IBA South Africa, Johannesburg, South Africa • IBA Bulgaria, Development Center, Burgas, Bulgaria • IBA — Information Business Architectures, Development Center, Minsk, Belarus • IBA Mogilev, IBA Office, Mogilev, Belarus • IBA Novopolotsk, IBA Office, Novopolotsk, Belarus Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Business Overview | Mission, Vision, and Values | Organizational Structure | Business Ethics and Practice IBA Group 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2020 IBA Group Managing the Company Organizational Structure Production Structure The IBA Group’s development centers consist of software IBA Group Board Client development divisions (production departments). For its development centers, IBA employs a matrix organizational structure, which is flexible and adaptive to customer requirements. A software department typically consists of several project teams. A team is headed by a Project Manager IBA Group CEO and may include employees from different production departments. Each team member reports to the Project Manager and the head of his/her production department. Sales and Quality Information Marketing Management Security Technical Support Department Department Department IBA Minsk IBA Gomel IBA CZ IBA Kz IBA Slovakia IBA Bulgaria Project Team Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Business Overview | Mission, Vision, and Values | Organizational Structure | Business Ethics and Practice IBA Group 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2020 IBA Group Managing the Company Organizational Structure Company Management The IBA Group’s management team is composed of experienced leaders who had successful careers as senior executives and who continually steer the company to success. IBA Group is governed by the Board of Directors that elects its Chairman and appoints C-level executives. Sergei Levteev, IBA Group Chairman Sergei Levteev has been IBA CEO since the company's inception in 1993. In 2005, he was elected Chairman of the Board of IBA Group. Mr. Levteev spearheads all aspects of the company's business efforts, including overall vision and strategy. During his tenure, a small firm evolved into an international group of nearly 3,000 employees. Sergei holds a B.S. degree in electronic engineering from the Belarusian State University of Informatics and Radio Electronics (BSUIR). Prior to IBA, he spent four years with the computer engineering association BelNPOVT. His career also included serving at Elorg–Data, a Finland– based IT company. Sergei Levteev believes that building a company from the ground up is one of the greatest experiences in his life. Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Business Overview | Mission, Vision, and Values | Organizational Structure | Business Ethics and Practice IBA Group 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2020 IBA Group Managing the Company Organizational Structure Sergei Akoulich Kirill Degtiarenko Deputy Chairman of the Board at IBA Group Member of the Board, Sales Director Chief Executive Officer at IBA IT Park Kirill Degtiarenko joined IBA in 1997 as a programmer in a project for IBM Germany. Sergei Akoulich has been working at IBA since 1999. From 2007 to 2011, he served as The same year, he was appointed as Software Manager responsible for day-to-day Business Development Director at IBA Minsk. In 2011, he was elected a member of the IBA management of international projects. Since 2005, Kirill has been in charge of sales Group’s Board of Directors and appointed as First Deputy CEO of IBA Minsk. In 2013, and marketing activities in the segment of new markets in Europe, Africa, and the Sergei was promoted to the position of Chief Executive Officer of IBA IT Park, the largest United States. Since 2018, Kirill has been a Member of the Board of IBA Group. software development center of IBA Group. Kirill holds a Bachelor of Science degree in mathematics and electronics from the Sergei Akoulich holds an M.S. degree in the automation of technological processes from Belarusian State University and a Professional Diploma in Management from the the Belarusian State University of Informatics and Radioelectronics (BSUIR) and a B.S. British Open University. Prior to IBA, he was the head of the ACS department at degree in the automation and management of technological systems from the same Belarusian Railway. university. His credentials include a Professional Certificate in Management from the Kirill Degtiarenko keeps expanding his knowledge base and improving professional British Open University. Prior to IBA, Sergei served as a project manager at the Minsk skills. In 2014, he became a Certified Outsourcing Professional (COP), following an Center for Information Technologies and a research officer at BSUIR. examination process and a rigorous peer review conducted by the International His incredible stamina, self-discipline, and capacity for work enable Sergei to Association of Outsourcing Professionals (IAOP). reach goals that are not achievable for others. Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Business Overview | Mission, Vision, and Values | Organizational Structure | Business Ethics and Practice IBA Group 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2020 IBA Group Managing the Company Business Ethics and Practice IBA Group adheres to high ethical standards and seeks to work honestly and transparently, which creates a high level of trust from partners and customers. IBA Group introduced the Code of Ethics, setting out a system of corporate values that are fundamental to the company’s efficient operation and long-term success. The program of adaptation of new employees includes familiarizing themselves with the Code of Ethics. IBA Group created universal rules and equal conditions for all employees. Internal labor regulations provide for employees’ accountability for violations of labor discipline. IBA Group observes the rules of fair competition. This is stipulated in a number of documents that regulate the company’s activities and include the following positions. • Strict compliance with the law • Norms of ethical behavior and prevention of corruption • Certification of management systems (QMS, ISMS) for IBA Group strives to develop a trusting and mutually beneficial compliance with international standards. long-term cooperation that is based on strict fulfillment of contractual obligations and adherence to business ethics. Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Business Overview | Mission, Vision, and Values | Organizational Structure | Business Ethics and Practice IBA Group 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2020 IBA Group Managing the Company Business Ethics and Practice Principles and Standards of Behavior Leadership Partnership Conscientiousness Be proactive Maintain reliable, trusted relations Follow rules and standards • Be actively involved in projects and • Always complete tasks • Complete tasks on time and meeting requirements tasks • Find an individual approach to every client • Act in accordance with the company’s values • Believe in success in any situation • Solve production tasks quickly and • Do not abuse the company’s trust • Inspire by example efficiently • Know how to unite and lead the team • Respect and trust each other and partners Always achieve goals • Adapt to new circumstances Do not be afraid of responsibility Be honest and open-minded • Succeed even with limited resources • Learn from failures • Build an open business relationship • Achieve the best results without losing quality • Take responsibility • Assist colleagues readily • Work to achieve goals, not for the sake of process • Admit failures • Be willing to share knowledge • Maintain a positive working mood in • Maintain confidential and open relations Value the company’s reputation any situation • Be demanding to yourself and others Be responsible • Do your job in the best possible way, so that the client Strive for success • Always keep promises and be honest with will be willing to use the company’s services again • Focus on achieving results partners • Learn continuously • Aspire to exceed partners’ expectations Improve yourself and conventional approaches to work • Set ambitious goals • Treat other people with respect • Fulfill obligations using the best ways to solve complicated tasks • Develop professional competencies and maintain high qualification standards. Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Business Overview | Mission, Vision, and Values | Organizational Structure | Business Ethics and Practice IBA Group 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2020 IBA Group Managing the Company Business Ethics and Practice Anti-Corruption IBA Group is opposed to all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery, and is guided by the highest ethical standards in partner relations, which is stated in the company’s Code of Ethics. IBA Group introduced the position of CEO Assistant for Security who monitors and prevents corruption and violation of anti-corruption laws among employees. In 2018, IBA Group received the TRACE Anti-Bribery Compliance Publicity and Transparency certificate, which confirms that the company fully complies with IBA Group is included in global rankings that demand national and international anti-corruption standards and adheres public disclosure of the company’s results. Using a corporate website and social media accounts , the fundamental to 2018, In principles IBA Group received ofTRACE the fairness, transparency Anti-Bribery of Compliance the company provides updates for stakeholders and information, certificate, and confirms which financial responsibility that the company areas. in allfully complies with the communicates with them on a regular basis. national and international anti-corruption standards and adhere to the fundamental principles of fairness, transparency of information, and IBA Group implements outsourcing projects, which makes most of the information about customers and financial responsibility in all areas. projects confidential. Non-disclosure agreements (NDAs) are part of outsourcing contracts. If required by a customer, NDAs are signed directly with the IBA Group employees involved in projects. 1 https://ibagroupit.com/ 2 The IBA Group’s internal labor regulations provide for employees’ obligation to be bound by state and https://www.facebook.com/IBAGroupIT/ https://www.linkedin.com/company/iba-group professional secrecy, not to disclose the trade secrets of the employer and third parties involved in projects. https://www.instagram.com/iba_group/ https://twitter.com/Ibagroup/ Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Business Overview | Mission, Vision, and Values | Organizational Structure | Business Ethics and Practice IBA Group 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2020 IBA Group Managing the Company Business Ethics and Practice Protection of and Respect for Human Rights IBA Group fully complies with national and international laws on human rights. The company creates fair and decent working conditions for all employees, complies with national and international standards in the field of equal opportunities, and supports the principles of respect for racial, religious, physical, and other differences of employees. IBA Group strictly adheres to the principles of privacy. The company does not employ forced or compulsory labor in any form, nor does it discriminate its employees. IBA Group does not exploit child labor. In protecting and observing human rights, the company is guided by the following documents. • Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact • United Nations Convention against Corruption • ETS 173: Criminal Law Convention on Corruption. IBA Group handles complaints and requests from employees using a database called Personnel’s Proposals. In 2019, IBA Group’s employees submitted 18 proposals, none of them concerning human rights. For discussions and exchange of views, IBA Group uses a corporate page on Workplace by Facebook. Information Security Policy IBA Group respects every customer’s, provider’s, business partner’s, and employee’s right to inviolability and confidentiality of personal data. We use the latest technologies and standards to ensure the security of information of our customers. IBA takes adequate measures to organize physical access control, logical access control, in-house security control, data transfer protection, and processing audit. IBA Group and external auditors conduct annual security audits at all company sites. The IBA Group’s information security service constantly monitors the corporate network and checks the organization’s activities for compliance with regulatory acts. Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Business Overview | Mission, Vision, and Values | Organizational Structure | Business Ethics and Practice IBA Group 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2020 IBA Group Developing a Sustainable Business Sustainability Management Since its inception, IBA Group has been implementing a sustainable development policy and views it as a basis for the harmonious development of business, society, and the environment. As an IT company, IBA Group implements solutions that increase the efficiency of companies and organizations, as wells as strives to improve the quality of life by supporting IT education. IBA Group is a major contributor to the economy of Belarus and the Czech Republic, providing IT services and solutions for local clients, ensuring safe working environment and decent salary, and respecting human rights of its employees. CSR Program The company adopted a consistent corporate social responsibility (CSR) program in 2008. The CSR program complies with international standards and applies to all activities of IBA. Corporate social responsibility management is based on the mission, vision, and values of the company. IBA Group is a responsible corporate citizen that invests in society and contributes to environmental protection. Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Sustainability Management | Contribution to the UN Sustainable Development Goals | Stakeholder Engagement IBA Group 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2020 IBA Group Developing a Sustainable Business Sustainability Management Employee Support Being a people–centered company, IBA Group provides its employees with healthy and comfortable working conditions and a friendly environment with a full scope of individual attention. We offer a benefit package that is commensurate with the great contribution that our employees make to our global success. Community Relations IBA Group contributes to the sustainable development of the communities in which it operates, improving the wellbeing of these communities. The company provides financial support to various organizations on a regular basis. Environmental Protection. Green IT Green IT is of high importance to IBA. The IBA development centers are located in the countries that are not rich in natural resources and therefore we strive to use electric power and other resources efficiently. IT Education The IBA CSR program says that in its daily operations the IBA Group cooperates with leading Belarusian, Czech, and Bulgarian company is guided by the principles of ethical behavior, IT universities to create a reserve of young professionals. transparency, respect for the rule of law and international norms, and respect for human rights. Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Sustainability Management | Contribution to the UN Sustainable Development Goals | Stakeholder Engagement IBA Group 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2020 IBA Group IBA Group and the UN Global Compact In 2018, IBA Group became a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact, the world’s leading voluntary corporate social responsibility initiative. As a signatory member, IBA Group confirmed that it supports the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact on human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption. In addition, IBA Group pledged that it is committed to making the UN Global Compact (UNGC) and its principles part of the company’s strategy, culture and day-to-day operations, and to engaging in collaborative projects to advance the UN Sustainable Development Goals. The current Report demonstrates the IBA Group's support of the UN Global Compact initiatives. In 2019, IBA Group began cooperating with the Minsk office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. Sustainable development is the main strategic goal of IBA Group. Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Sustainability Management | Contribution to the UN Sustainable Development Goals | Stakeholder Engagement IBA Group 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2020 IBA Group Developing a Sustainable Business Sustainability Management Monitoring and Evaluation IBA participates annually in The Global Outsourcing 100, a ranking that recognizes IBA Group is a global company that works in accordance with the world’s best outsourcing service providers. Companies are first organized by international standards of professionalism, management, and Leader or Rising Star criteria and then evaluated based on the following five technologies and cares about compliance with these standards. judging categories. To raise the stakeholders’ level of trust and increase competitiveness, IBA Group evaluates its activities. 1. Size and Growth as measured by revenue, employees, and global presence. 2. Customer References as demonstrated through value being created at the IBA Group regularly conducts internal audits and once a year company’s top customers. external audits by certified organizations. 3. Awards and Certifications as demonstrated through the value being created through industry recognition, and relevant organizational and individual In 2019, IBA Group successfully re-certified its information professional certifications. security management system to STB ISO/IEC 27001-2016 4. Programs for Innovation as demonstrated through specific programs and (ISO/IEC 27001:2013) for the Information Security Management resulting outcomes that produce new forms of value for customers. System: design, development, production, and maintenance of 5. Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) as shown through corporate programs software and automated information systems. and outcomes that address such topics as community involvement and development, labor practices, human rights, fair operating practices, environmental impacts, consumer issues, and organizational governance. In 2019, IAOP included IBA Group in the Best of The Global Outsourcing 100, the list of the best outsourcing providers for the past decade. Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Sustainability Management | Contribution to the UN Sustainable Development Goals | Stakeholder Engagement IBA Group 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2020 IBA Group Developing a Sustainable Business Sustainability Management Key Achievements and Goals in Sustainable Development CSR / Sustainable Development Goals Key Achievements in 2019 Goals for 2020 Goals for 3 to 5 Years Provide high quality IT services and Based on an annual customer survey, 93% solutions through the use of advanced of the company’s customers were satisfied Maintain and improve customer Keep customer satisfaction above 90%. technologies and first rate customer with IBA Group’s services. satisfaction score. service. The set of software development services Expand the range of products and services Increase the share of projects using the expanded to include data science and using innovative technologies from world Continue mastering new technologies. latest technologies in the total volume of intelligent automation. New SAP and other IT leaders. IBA Group's projects. traditional technologies introduced. Expand the client base by conquering IBA opened an additional sales office in the Expand project geography. Expand cooperation with customers and new markets, penetrating new vertical US. partners in Europe, America, and Africa. industries, and creating partnerships with current clients. Keep pace with innovations in IT and Solutions for public transport and mobile Integrate new solutions in business Create and implement new solutions business areas. payment. processes of IBA Group and its with IBA Group customers and customers. internally. Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Sustainability Management | Contribution to the UN Sustainable Development Goals | Stakeholder Engagement IBA Group 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2020 IBA Group Developing a Sustainable Business Contribution to UN SDGs Economic growth must be Helping children's institutions, people with disabilities, and veterans. For more inclusive to provide information, see Section 4. Making Responsible Decisions. Charity and Inclusivity. sustainable jobs and promote equality. The food and agriculture sector offers key solutions for Creation of AgromonX, an application for agriculture to automate crop production development, and is central for management. The product is based on IoT. hunger and poverty eradication. IBA Group employees’ age ranges from 20 to 70+ years, which is not typical of young IT companies. 16 of the company’s employees are older than 70 years. These are top class Ensuring healthy lives and mainframe specialists. All employees have access to a benefit package that includes promoting the well-being for all at medical care, sports classes, cultural activities, and financial assistance. Former IBA all ages is essential to sustainable Group employees who retired have access to the benefit package too. development. Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Sustainability Management | Contribution to the UN Sustainable Development Goals | Stakeholder Engagement IBA Group 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2020 IBA Group Developing a Sustainable Business Contribution to UN SDGs The IBA Institute of IT and Business Administration (IBA Institute) provides training Obtaining a quality education to IBA employees and conducts free IT and business training for people with is the foundation to disabilities. IBA Group has long-lasting relations with Belarusian universities, where improving people’s lives and IBA’s R&D labs are ongoing. IBA Group specialists train students at IBA courses and sustainable development. young people have internships with the company. IBA Group is a sponsor of programming contests and championships among school and university students. Gender equality is not only a fundamental human right, but a IT is a male-dominated industry. However, 38 percent of IBA Group employees are necessary foundation for a women. peaceful, prosperous and sustainable world. Sustainable economic growth will IBA Group is a responsible employer. The company’s staff includes nearly 3,000 require societies to create the employees. IBA Group equips R&D labs and school classrooms with computers and conditions that allow people to peripherals. IBA Institute conducts IT and business training for people with disabilities to have quality jobs. help them find employment. Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Sustainability Management | Contribution to the UN Sustainable Development Goals | Stakeholder Engagement IBA Group 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2020 IBA Group Developing a Sustainable Business Contribution to UN SDGs IBA Group opened its campus in Belarus’ High-Tech Park. The campus includes a six–floor office Industry, Innovation and building of 12,000 square meters, IBA Data Center of 946 square meters, a three–level parking Infrastructure. garage for 350 cars, a fitness center of 2,400 square meters, and an additional parking facility for 100 Investments in cars. IBA Group began building a fourth level at its parking garage. All buildings have the latest infrastructure are crucial equipment that uses modern life support technologies. IBA Group’s offices in Gomel, Prague, Brno, to achieving sustainable Ostrava, Bratislava, and Burgas also meet the highest requirements for office space. IBA Data Center development provides cloud services to local businesses. To reduce inequalities, policies should be universal in principle, paying attention to the needs of disadvantaged To work on international projects, IBA Group creates mixed teams that comprise employees from and marginalized Belarus-based, Czech, and other IBA development centers. populations. There needs to be a IBA Group creates products and solutions that improve people’s lives, including a series of payment future in which cities solutions for the retail industry and public transport. provide opportunities for all, with access to basic services, energy, housing, IBA Group saves fuel and energy resources by using resource efficient technologies. The IBA Data Center transportation and more. employs an innovative technology of heat recovery. The heat generated by the data center equipment is used to heat the IBA Fitness Center. Computers used at IBA Group have built-in energy saving systems that Responsible reduce power consumption during temporary interruptions in operation. Lighting systems use energyconsumption and efficient light sources. The water supply system has integrated devices that dispense the amount of water. production. For wet cleaning of premises, automatic floor cleaning machines are used, which allows for reducing water consumption. A waste sorting system is in place. Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Sustainability Management | Contribution to the UN Sustainable Development Goals | Stakeholder Engagement IBA Group 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2020 IBA Group Developing a Sustainable Business Contribution to UN SDGs Access to justice for all, and IBA Group aims to harmonize its activities with the values and expectations of building effective, society. The company continues to adhere to the principles of transparency and accountable institutions at all accountability, openly informing all stakeholders about its activities and social and levels. environmental impact. On November 28, 2017, IBA Group signed an agreement on cooperation of socially Revitalize the global partnership for responsible organizations of Belarus in the implementation of CSR projects. On sustainable development. May 31, 2018, IBA Group became a signatory of the UN Global Compact. In 2019, IBA Group started cooperation with the Minsk office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Sustainability Management | Contribution to the UN Sustainable Development Goals | Stakeholder Engagement IBA Group 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2020 IBA Group Developing a Sustainable Business Stakeholder Engagement IBA Group builds and maintains long-term relationships with stakeholders, taking into account their expectations and standpoints on various issues. IBA Group works with a range of stakeholders, including the following groups. PUBLICS • Shareholders • Employees • Customers • Suppliers (partners) • Media • Universities • National and local governments. OTHER STAKEHOLDERS • IT and business associations IBA Group is focused on meeting the interests of all • Secondary educational institutions with IT stakeholders, including customers, employees, specialization suppliers, and local communities. • Local communities. IBA Group is focused on meeting the interests of all stakeholders, including customers, employees, suppliers, and local communities. Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Sustainability Management | Contribution to the UN Sustainable Development Goals | Stakeholder Engagement IBA Group 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2020 IBA Group Developing a Sustainable Business Stakeholder Engagement IBA Group uses various communication channels to encourage Shareholders honest and open dialogue with stakeholders. IBA Group meets the expectations of shareholders in terms of economic growth. To keep its shareholders informed, the company discloses the Employees results of audits and shares other information on the company’s website. Interaction with employees and their engagement in the company's activities is an important component of the corporate culture of IBA Group. To meet the expectations and needs of employees, an open Clients and Partners dialogue is maintained through various channels of internal To ensure consistent quality and customer satisfaction, the company's communication, including meetings, surveys, intranet and Facebook management team maintains contacts with external stakeholders, including Workplace postings, electronic correspondence, office displays, and customers. The engagement channels include the following. social media. • Meetings with representatives of current and potential customers and partners • Participation in exhibitions, workshops, conferences, and other events • Membership in trade associations • Support of and participation in joint projects with universities and other educational institutions. Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Sustainability Management | Contribution to the UN Sustainable Development Goals | Stakeholder Engagement IBA Group 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2020 IBA Group Developing a Sustainable Business Stakeholder Engagement in 2019 IBA Group meets the expectations of shareholders in terms of economic growth. To keep its shareholders informed, the company discloses the results of audits and shares other information on the company’s website. Key Interaction Mechanisms Key Events in 2019 Stakeholders Expectations/Interests Development of strategy and founding Revenue surplus. Positive documents. Direct control of the Changes in the IBA Group Board. Growth in key indicators. company reputation. Shareholders company. High wages. Favorable Regular wages and performance-based Rewarding of the best employees of the year and honored environment and safe bonuses. Engagement in company employees (veterans) of IBA Group. Tourist rally with participation working conditions. activities. Benefit Package database in of 1,600+ employees. Benefit package. intranet, where employees can sign up For more information, see Section 4.2 of the Report. Professional for a variety of sports and cultural Employees development. events held or sponsored by the company. Training Database in intranet with access to a variety of training courses. Talent Constructor HRM solution facilitates employee development. All applications and databases were developed by IBA Group employees. Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Sustainability Management | Contribution to the UN Sustainable Development Goals | Stakeholder Engagement IBA Group 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2020 IBA Group Developing a Sustainable Business Stakeholder Engagement in 2019 Key Interaction Mechanisms Key Events in 2019 Stakeholders Expectations/Interests High quality services that Offshore and onshore delivery models Winner in European IT & Software Excellence Awards 2019 in the meet customer with IBA teams working in cooperation category Big Data, IoT or Analytics Solution of the Year. The awardrequirements and with customer teams. winning Profitability Management Solution was one of the first Customers international standards. implementations of SAP Profitability and Performance Management 3.0 in the world. High sales of partners' Partnership and distribution IBM appointed IBA Group as its Platinum Business Partner. SAP products. agreements. Affiliate programs and appointed IBA as its Gold Services Business Partner and recognized partner levels. Collaborative activities. IBA’s expertise in SAP Travel and Transportation, SAP Utilities, SAP Contests among partners. Oil & Gas, and SAP HANA. Siemens appointed IBA as a Silver Partners Partner for MindSphere, a cloud-based IoT operating system. Prompt provision of Press conferences, round table Publications in international (4) and local media (up to 100). information of interest to discussions, interviews, articles, and the media. etc. Media Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Sustainability Management | Contribution to the UN Sustainable Development Goals | Stakeholder Engagement IBA Group 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2020 IBA Group Developing a Sustainable Business Stakeholder Engagement in 2019 Key Interaction Mechanisms Key Events in 2019 Stakeholders Expectations/Interests Provision of equipment, Four joint research laboratories at In 2019, more than 170 students completed 13 courses of 1,390 software, and training universities of Belarus. academic hours, 690 students attended more than 30 workshops programs. Sponsorship of In 2019, IBA Group opened an of 1,700 academic hours, and 344 students had internships at IBA international and local innovative SAP Next-Gen Lab at the Group. championships and Belarusian State University. competitions. Training courses for students and In aggregate, IBA Group recruited 111 university graduates and Universities lecturers. Cooperation with students in 2019. universities of the Czech Republic and Bulgaria. IBA Group began cooperation with the Polessky State University and Vitebsk State University You can find more information in Section 4.3 IT Education. Compliance with local Participation in tenders, development Introduction of contactless payment system in Minsk public laws. Participation in of solutions for automation of business transport. government programs on processes. automation and Government informatization of authorities government agencies and institutions. Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Sustainability Management | Contribution to the UN Sustainable Development Goals | Stakeholder Engagement IBA Group 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2020 IBA Group Developing a Sustainable Business Stakeholder Engagement in 2019 Key Interaction Mechanisms Key Events in 2019 Stakeholders Expectations/Interests Participation in industry Resident company of Inclusion in the IAO’s Best of The Global Outsourcing 100, the list of the best events and projects. Belarusian Hi Tech Park outsourcing providers for the past decade Lobbying the industry’s and a member of IT and interests. Infopark Association, outsourcing IAOP, and Emerging associations Europe Alliance Computerization of Sponsorship Financial support of schools. Financial High school in Tolochinsky Rayon of Vitebsk Region support for schools and Minsk Grammar School #75 Secondary IT contests. Center Evrika for Continuing Education of Children and Youth educational Departments of education at local governing bodies institutions Ethical and Support of and assistance IBA Group provides financial support to environmental to people with Inclusive Family Theater for Children with Autism compliance. disabilities, Belarusian Belarusian Children’s Hospice Local Participation in children's hospice, war IBA maintains the Auto Volunteers app aimed to help children with disabilities. communities environmental and veterans, and children's humanitarian projects. institutions. Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Sustainability Management | Contribution to the UN Sustainable Development Goals | Stakeholder Engagement IBA Group 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2020 IBA Group Developing a Sustainable Business Stakeholder Engagement in 2019 Memberships in International Initiatives and Associations in 2019 Name Date of Adhesion Status IAOP 2014 Member Emerging Europe Alliance 2018 Member High Tech Park 2006 Resident Association Infopark 2005 Member Agreement on cooperation of socially 2017 Signatory responsible companies of Belarus UN Global Compact 2018 Signatory Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Sustainability Management | Contribution to the UN Sustainable Development Goals | Stakeholder Engagement IBA Group 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2020 IBA Group Implementing Innovations Quality Management Quality Improvement Processes The company provides its customers with high quality services and solutions. The IBA Group’s quality management system is based on internal quality standards, ISO 9001, and CMMI (Capability Maturity Model Integration). Engagement of all Recognition and reward of Empowerment of Professional development employees in quality achievements in quality employees to set goals and motivation of The company continuously improves assurance activities and innovation and make decisions employees processes related to products, organizational and management structures, management systems, personnel training, corporate culture, working conditions, infrastructure, and stakeholder engagement. Creation of safe and Introduction of new IBA Group improves its business processes comfortable working technologies and Creation of corporate Improvement of using the PDCA model (Plan-Do-Check-Act). conditions innovations culture infrastructure Development of employee Use of the company’s Implementation of motivation programs Resource allocation potential innovations Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Quality Management | Mobile Technologies | Cloud Technologies | Robotic Process Automation (RPA) IBA Group 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2020 IBA Group Implementing Innovations Quality Assurance and Information Security The IBA Accelerator Portal is designed to encourage innovation, focusing on search, development, testing, and implementation of innovative ideas. To implement policies and achieve objectives in the field of quality and information security management, the company has the following certified management systems (MS) in place. • Quality management system for design, development, production, and maintenance of software and automated systems, compliant with STB ISO 9001-2015, DIN EN ISO 9001:2015; ČSN EN ISO 9001:2016, and ČSN ISO/IEC 20000-1:2012 • Information security management system for development, production, and maintenance of software and automated information systems, compliant with STB ISO/IEC 27001-2016 and ČSN ISO/IEC 27001:2014. The IBA Group's management team carries out regular inspections of the company's operations to assess its performance. Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Quality Management | Mobile Technologies | Cloud Technologies | Robotic Process Automation (RPA) IBA Group 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2020 IBA Group Implementing Innovations Quality Management The company’s management analyzes performance in line with requirements of the IBA–MAN.1 Leadership process, taking into account semi-annual internal audit reports and annual performance reports. The results of analyses are included in the minutes of the meetings of the Standing Committee for Quality Assessment (SCQA). In 2019, the goals and objectives set by the company regarding quality management were fully met, which is reflected in the report on the efficiency of management systems and the results of external audits. Customer Satisfaction IBA Group management is aware of the role that quality management plays in solving of economic and social issues. A special emphasis is placed on meeting the needs and expectations of all stakeholders, including customers, employees, partners, and suppliers. To study satisfaction levels, IBA analyzes the following information. • Reviews in the media • Feedback from users or customers Project managers, project teams, and account • User opinions obtained during marketing surveys managers perform continuous monitoring of • Findings of surveys customer satisfaction during project implementation. • Registered bugs or other defects. Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Quality Management | Mobile Technologies | Cloud Technologies | Robotic Process Automation (RPA) IBA Group 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2020 IBA Group Implementing Innovations Quality Management Real time monitoring of customer satisfaction is carried out by project Audits of Management Systems groups during project status meetings and when discussing issues that IBA Group is continuously working on the development, arise in the course of project execution. implementation and improvement of management systems to ensure stable quality and information security, and reduce project risks. IBA Group conducts annual customer surveys. The company developed management processes that cover all 2017 2018 2019 activities that might affect the software quality. Number of complaints 0 1 1 IBA Group conducts internal audits in line with the IBA-MR.1 Customer satisfaction Domestic market 76.1 6.2 6.26 procedure Internal Audit and Software QMS Audit Programs for 2019. point scale Foreign market non-IBM 4.3 4.6 4.51 Internal Audit and Software QMS Audit Programs for 2019 projects 5-point scale Period Foreign market IBM 98.53 98.74 99.58 Event 2019 projects 100-point scale Number of scheduled Project curators and process owners analyze survey findings and discuss 104 inspections these at SCQA meetings. The conclusions made by the Committee lay Number of unscheduled the ground for corrective actions and plans for improvement of the 4 inspections management systems. Number of minor issues 12 detected Based on findings and conclusions of surveys, IBA Number of major issues 2 Group develops an action plan to improve customer detected satisfaction. The detected inconsistencies refer to timely updating of relevant documents. Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Quality Management | Mobile Technologies | Cloud Technologies | Robotic Process Automation (RPA) IBA Group 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2020 IBA Group Implementing Innovations Quality Management Information Security Audits in 2019 Number of scheduled 76 inspections Number of unscheduled 0 inspections Number of minor issues 29 detected Number of minor issues tackled 29 Number of major issues – detected The detected issues refer to timely updating of documents. Audit Results • The program of audits is executed in full and taking into account all objectives and tasks in quality improvement • No violations of the internal audit procedures were detected • Audits time frames were met • Audit results are registered in a timely manner in line with IBASCP9.2 and stored in the QMS audit database • Audit teams comprise competent and qualified professionals. The program of audits is executed in full and meeting all quality management objectives. Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Quality Management | Mobile Technologies | Cloud Technologies | Robotic Process Automation (RPA) IBA Group 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2020 IBA Group Implementing Innovations Mobile Technologies IBA Group develops enterprise applications for banks, manufacturing enterprises, and other businesses. The applications automate workflow, optimize communication between employees, and address a variety of other issues. Mobile Projects Mobile Acquiring Service payBYcard enables users to accept payments for goods/services made by Belcard, Visa, and MasterCard using a smartphone/tablet and a connected card reader. Automated Fare Collection (AFC) System. Minsk citizens and visitors can pay for travel in public transport using smartcards or other NFC devices. The AFC System functions in 3,000 buses, trolleybuses, and trams, as well as in Minsk Metro. Transport BY allows for tracking the movement of public transport, viewing the current transport timetables and the arrival time of a vehicle at a particular bus stop, and planning a convenient in-city and inter-city routes. More than 3,000 users downloaded the application in the first 10 days. Currently, the application works in Gomel and 11 cities of Gomel Region. Chancellor Smart is a mobile application designed for efficient and convenient online and offline remote work with an electronic document management (EDM) system using iOS and Android mobile devices. The application can be integrated with other EDM systems on any platform. Chancellor Smart is intended to increase operational efficiency of enterprise employees. Auto Volunteers application for the Belarusian Children's Hospice was created by developers of IBA Group within the framework of the Engineering Charity Marathon HospiceProject Auto Volunteers. TapXphone is a digital payment solution that acts as an alternative to a physical banking terminal or a mobile card reader. It does not require additional equipment and works through a smartphone application. With tapXphone, it is possible to accept payments with Visa, MasterCard, and local Belarusian bankcards via a mobile device with an NFC-module. Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Quality Management | Mobile Technologies | Cloud Technologies | Robotic Process Automation (RPA) IBA Group 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2020 IBA Group Implementing Innovations Cloud Technologies IBA Group had its own cloud platform and data center to provide cloud services. As a part of the strategy for product transformation, IBA Group set up the following facilities and took the following actions. • IBA Data Center is designed to provide a trouble-free performance of user information systems with specified levels of availability, reliability, security, and manageability. It meets the TIER 3 requirements and up– to–date international information security standards. It is energy efficient: the heat generated by IBA Data Center is used to heat the IBA Group's Fitness Center • IBA Cloud Platform is an easy-to-use cloud computing platform that provides centralized management of public and private clouds, and enables companies to migrate their traditional applications and develop new services for their customers in a dedicated and safe virtual environment • Development and modification of proprietary solutions and products is deployed in the IBA Cloud Platform based on SaaS. Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Quality Management | Mobile Technologies | Cloud Technologies| Robotic Process Automation (RPA) IBA Group 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2020 IBA Group Implementing Innovations Cloud Technologies Data Storage IBA Data Center is a fail-safe complex of interrelated software and hardware components, engineering infrastructure, and organizational procedures. The IBA Data Center is a detached two-floor building, designed and built in compliance with international standards and local regulations in the field of information security. Features • Protection against electromagnetic radiation by Faraday cage • Liquid cooling and maintaining high pressure in the main computer room with access through airlock chambers • Autonomous power supply from a diesel generator and two independent transformer substations • Total capacity 1 MW (64 server racks and 8 telecommunication racks) • Communication channels with redundancy and from different providers (Beltelecom, Delovaya Set', BFT) • Heats the IBA Fitness Center (energy-saving technologies). IBA Cloud Platform is an easy-to-use and flexible cloud computing platform that allows employees engaged in software development and maintenance to create, use, and scale virtual computing resources to complete a project or provide a service to customers. Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Quality Management | Mobile Technologies | Cloud Technologies | Robotic Process Automation (RPA) IBA Group 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2020 IBA Group Implementing Innovations Cloud Technologies Cloud Solutions IBA AVM is an automated fleet management system designed for a passenger transportation operator to conduct centralized traffic control. The system also informs passengers about the estimated time of arrival of route vehicles (RV) at stopping points. It can be either installed on the customer's servers or delivered as a cloud service from the IBA Data Center. Chancellor Next is a new series of software products intended for workflow automation. The system accelerates document processing, resulting in improved interaction with and between government authorities. The introduction of paperless technologies contributes to the promotion of eco-friendly office culture. IBA Group Security is a portfolio of products and services designed for the development, implementation, and maintenance of information security systems. IBA Visual Analysis Studio is an analytical solution for identification of fraud schemes. The solution is a full-fledged analytical machine designed for security divisions of financial and insurance companies. Talent Constructor is a family of software products designed for effective human resource management. Talent Constructor is scalable and easily integrated with existing HRMS (for more information see Section 4.2 Employee Support). AgronomX is a software and hardware platform based on the Internet of Things (IoT). The system collects information about the field’s state via sensors, weather stations, smart devices, and satellites. AgronomX enables farmers to take a quantum leap in controlling threats, reducing costs, and minimizing crop losses during crop cultivation and storage. APPULSE is a centralized support platform for business applications that run on z/OS servers. APPULSE provides uninterrupted operation of critical business applications, resulting from proactive problem identification and resolution. The product has an AI module that generates and prompts problem solutions based on accumulated data. Solutions for Retail Banking (Internet Banking, Mobile Banking, payment and currency exchange solutions and terminals, business planning and budgeting, scoring and statistical analysis, and other systems). The introduction of these solutions reduced queuing time in banks and contributed to a positive user experience, resulting in enhanced customer satisfaction. Start Point is a cloud service designed for collaborative product development and maintenance, product data management (PDM), Product Lifecycle Management (PLM), and electronic document management (EDM) of engineering data. Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Quality Management | Mobile Technologies | Cloud Technologies | Robotic Process Automation (RPA) IBA Group 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2020 IBA Group Implementing Innovations Intelligent Automation Robotic Process Automation (RPA) enables businesses to streamline repetitive tasks, including sorting of incoming emails, responding to chat messages or extracting useful information from documents. IBA Group partners with leading RPA software providers to re-package and automate complex business processes. IBA Group renders intelligent automation services based on Machine Learning (ML) and Artificial Intelligence (AI). Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Quality Management | Mobile Technologies | Cloud Technologies | Robotic Process Automation (RPA) IBA Group 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2020 IBA Group Making Responsible Decisions Environmental Protection Environmental policy is an integral part of the CSR program of IBA Group. As an IT company, IBA Group does not have a direct impact on the environment. Company’s environmental activities comply with environmental laws in the countries of presence and international standards. It is also very important for IBA Group that its partners comply with environmental laws and share the company's values in the field of environmental protection. IBA Group pays special attention to energy efficiency and energy saving issues, and participates in environmental activities that increase environmental awareness. Efficiency of Environmental Protection Activities The company applies advanced technologies to make environmental protection activities more effective. IBA Group developed and approved the following Guidelines on the implementation of industrial environmental control. • Exercise control over observance of requirements for environmental protection by company employees • Develop plans for the implementation of production control in the company • Develop action plans in the field of environmental protection • Organize training and knowledge assessment of employees in the field of environmental protection. The inspections show that the The results of industrial environmental control are documented, specifying the detected violations, if any. Supervisory authorities conduct regular inspections that include measurement of risk factors measured parameters do not exceed in the work environment, such as microclimate, noise, electromagnetic fields, and other the permissible levels and comply occupational hazards. with the hygienic standards. Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Environmental Protection | Employee Support | IT Education | Charity and Inclusivity IBA Group 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2020 IBA Group Making Responsible Decisions Environmental Protection Improvement of Environmental Management System IBA Group has its Environmental Program. The document is aimed at preserving the environment through the use of advanced and energy-saving technologies, and effective management of working environment and infrastructure. It also provides for safe working conditions, healthy morale, and ecological awareness of employees. To manage the Environmental Program, IBA Group signed outsourcing contracts with companies that specialize in environmental protection. Each year, an environmental passport is issued for the company, keeping record of the amount of generated waste. Recently, IBA introduced a waste sorting system. Environmental Impact For better distribution and efficient use of fuel and energy resources, IBA Group annually develops and approves fuel and energy resource consumption norms. In addition, the company keeps track of changes in the level of greenhouse gas emissions in CO2 equivalent, relevant to electricity and heat consumption. Every year, an Action Program aimed at reducing consumption of fuel and energy resources is developed and approved. In 2019, the Action Program focused on timely shutdown of unused lighting and power equipment, optimization of the ventilation system switching schedule, awareness-raising activities among employees, and maximization of natural light usage. Implementation of organizational and The company keeps record of water consumption (water meters are installed). technical actions ensures annual reduction in fuel and energy consumption. Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Environmental Protection | Employee Support | IT Education | Charity and Inclusivity IBA Group 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2020 IBA Group Making Responsible Decisions Environmental Protection Energy Efficiency and Conservation In the design, construction, and operation of buildings, IBA Group implements integrated solutions aimed at decreasing consumption and increasing efficiency of energy resources. Energy-efficient power, heat, and hot water supply, ventilation, and air conditioning are in operation in the IBA Group campus, primarily in the office building, IBA Data Center, and IBA Fitness Center. To optimize heat and electricity consumption, IBA Group takes the following actions. • Air handling units are equipped with heat recovery systems. Rotary heat exchangers of at least 65 percent efficiency are used for office premises and 30 percent heat exchangers with an intermediate heating medium for cafeteria. Rotary heat exchangers have hygroscopic coating, which ensures heat and moisture return and reduces air conditioning load in summer • Regulation units are equipped with three-way valves on the supply line and circulation pumps with frequency control on the return line to optimize the heat consumption in the air handling units • Heat curtains are equipped with built-in thermostats and 5-speed fans. Fan speed and temperature are maintained automatically • Heating units are equipped with an automatic temperature control system • Heating devices are equipped with thermostats to maintain specified air parameters in the premises Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Environmental Protection | Employee Support | IT Education | Charity and Inclusivity IBA Group 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2020 IBA Group Making Responsible Decisions Environmental Protection • Air conditioning is water-cooled. Fan coil units are equipped with an automatic control system consisting of a control valve and an in-room controller • Ventilation and air conditioning systems are equipped with a dispatching system that allows for 24/7 automatic operation planning • Fans in the air handling units are equipped with performance frequency regulators to prevent air overconsumption and optimize pressure in the duct network • Pumping equipment of ventilation and air conditioning systems, as well as water supply and heating systems are equipped with frequency converters • Input and distribution devices, as well as power and lighting boards are located in the load center, which reduces voltage losses in internal electrical networks and ensures the most economical power cabling • For artificial lighting, the company uses energy-efficient lamps. All lamps are equipped with an electronic control gear (ECG) and have a high power factor, which reduces the operating current of the lamp, power consumption when switched on, and, consequently, voltage loss in the lines • Electrical wiring in the buildings is made of copper-conductor cables. Group and distribution networks are laid in trays, in cable channels, and on clamps along the shortest path, which reduces voltage losses and improves cooling of current-carrying conductors • Transformer substations are made of block sets and are located close to the center of electrical loads, which reduces losses in 0.4 KV cable lines • The company uses photo relays and time delay relays for automatic lighting control. Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Environmental Protection | Employee Support | IT Education | Charity and Inclusivity IBA Group 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2020 IBA Group Making Responsible Decisions Environmental Protection Energy Efficiency Indicators for IBA Group Campus Buildings, 2019 To save thermal energy produced by ventilation and heating systems, IBA Group uses timevarying control systems. Pipelines of heat supply systems, mains and risers of the heating Planned Actual system are thermally insulated. The heating system is equipped with control and balancing Total Fuel Energy Resources (FER), valves to ensure stability of the system and enable consumers to regulate heat consumption. 639 661 cumulative energy costs, actual (TCE) Sales volume per unit of energy The low hydraulic resistance of the heating system allows for the use of pumps with low energy consumption, thousand rubles/TCE 183.5 212.6 consumption. In the ventilation system, plate and rotary heat exchangers are used. Increase in the efficiency of fuel and The heat pump is connected in parallel with heat engines to recuperate low-grade heat 15.6 energy use (2019 vs 2018), % generated by the equipment of the server room. The recovered heat is used for heating, hot water supply, and ventilation of IBA Fitness Center and IBA Data Center. Consumption of Fuel and Energy 0.37 0.36 Resources per worker, TCE/person Production Waste Management Thirteen types of production waste are generated by the company. All waste is separated by Savings in the use of Fuel and Energy 3.0 Resources per worker (2019 vs 2018), % type in accordance with the waste and hazard class classification systems, effective in the countries of presence. IBA Group developed Production Waste Management Guidelines in coordination with local authorities. Waste is subject to mandatory collection, accounting, storage, use, Production waste collection and disposal is carried out by IBA contractors. Waste disposal transfer for processing, and disposal accounting meets requirements of the Technical Code of Common Practice 17.02-12-2014 to specialized enterprises. (02120), Form POD-10. IBA Group submits waste disposal statistics annually in line with national and international laws. Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Environmental Protection | Employee Support | IT Education | Charity and Inclusivity IBA Group 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2020 IBA Group Making Responsible Decisions Environmental Protection Air Protection IBA Group seeks to reduce emissions of pollutants in the atmosphere, including: • Vehicle storage • Operation of diesel-driven generator sets • Car washing. To ensure environmentally friendly operation of vehicles, IBA Group concluded contracts with specialized organizations for the replacement of consumables (oils, antifreezes, and brake fluid). During vehicle maintenance, the worn tires are sent for recycling. Ecological Awareness The company implements environmental projects, cooperates with stakeholders to address environmental issues, and informs stakeholders about actions taken in the area through different communication channels, including conferences, meetings, and round table discussions. IBA Group organizes volunteer green initiatives. Employees planted trees in the IBA Group campus. They installed a garden house in the Minsk Children's Hospice. The initiatives are an excellent way to engage employees in environmental projects and thereby raise ecological awareness. Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Environmental Protection | Employee Support | IT Education | Charity and Inclusivity IBA Group 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2020 IBA Group Making Responsible Decisions Employee Age Groups, 2019 Specialists vs Executives, 2019 Employee Support 19% 15% ≤ 35 46% The IBA Group's personnel management policy meets local and 35-50 international labor standards, and is in line with the corporate 85% values. To attract and retain talent, IBA Group takes the 50+ following efforts. Executives 35% • Personnel development: new employee adaptation, Employees by Gender, 2019 Specialists professional training, expansion of competencies, and creation of a pool of candidates for higher roles • Staff motivation and loyalty: competitive wages and 38% performance-based bonuses, various forms of recognition and moral encouragement, and benefit package • Personnel’s awareness and engagement. 62% In 2019, the total number of employees was 2,843. Competition for IT professionals is ever increasing on local and international markets, which results in very high attrition rates in the IT Women Men sector. IBA Group is proud to have one of the lowest attrition rates in the industry, both locally and internationally. In 2019, the employee turnover was 9.3 percent. The IBA Group's main asset is talented employees, whose level of competence ensures high quality software and solutions. The company conducts and implements an array of activities and initiatives aimed at attracting, developing, and retaining capable employees. Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Environmental Protection | Employee Support | IT Education | Charity and Inclusivity IBA Group 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2020 IBA Group Making Responsible Decisions Employee Support Employee Satisfaction, 2018 86 85,37 % Assessment of HR Management To encourage employees’ feedback and improve HR management, IBA 84 Group applies the following techniques. • Direct access of employees to senior officials 81,96 % 82 • Training assessment questionnaire in the Training Database • Staff Proposals Database for complaints and suggestions • Regular employee surveys and polls. 80 78,1 % 78 77,63 % Measuring Employee Satisfaction Since 2005, IBA Group has been conducting biennial employee 76 satisfaction surveys using a survey application in the corporate information system. In 2017, the company began measuring employee 74 loyalty. The findings of the latest survey are presented in the following table. 72 Engagement Identification Loyalty Satisfaction The aggregate satisfaction rate at IBA Group is 80.77%. Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Environmental Protection | Employee Support | IT Education | Charity and Inclusivity IBA Group 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2020 IBA Group Making Responsible Decisions Employee Support Improving HR Management The programs are updated annually after a thorough analysis of the previous Efficient recruitment, assessment, and motivation of employees year's results. IBA Group applies the following solutions and databases. enable IBA Group to achieve its goals. To this end, the company • Personnel Records leverages a variety of programs, techniques, and technologies. • Training • Candidate pool • Employee Certificates • Fund for support of new employees • Surveys • Personnel record keeping • Financial Requests • Sponsorship of universities • PMT PRS (IBA project management tool) • Personnel selection and adaptation • Personnel Proposals • Personnel training • SQMS • Internal communications • ISMS • Benefit package • Talent Constructor (IBA HR management tool) • IBA portal Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Environmental Protection | Employee Support | IT Education | Charity and Inclusivity IBA Group 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2020 IBA Group Making Responsible Decisions Employee Support Personnel Training Employee Development and Training 1. Selection and 2. Defining training IBA Group implements a consistent employee development policy that hiring of personnel needs includes the following initiatives. • IT training at training centers of world IT leaders and at the IBA Institute • Certification of IT specialists • Foreign language courses: English, French, and German at the IBA 3. Training Institute; 5. Assessment of Monitoring program training outcomes activities development and • Corporate trainings, workshops, and conferences. scheduling Relevant information on qualifications, practical experience, education, and training is systematically accumulated in personal files and employee registration cards in the Personnel Records and Certificates databases. 4. Training sessions In 2019, 228 employees received honorary diplomas for their exemplary performance and eight employees were awarded Honorary IBA Employee titles. Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Environmental Protection | Employee Support | IT Education | Charity and Inclusivity IBA Group 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2020 IBA Group Making Responsible Decisions Employee Support In 2019, the training effectiveness indicator was 85.3% vs planned 85%. IBA Group management appointed an Education Manager to coordinate training and career development programs for the company’s personnel. An established procedure is in place for assessment of training courses and events. Training at Training Centers of World IT Leaders On average, more than 700 IBA employees receive training annually in more than 30 leading training centers of the CIS and Europe, including the following education providers: IBM Training Center (Moscow, Russia), SAP CIS (Moscow), School of Business and Management of Technology of the Belarusian State University (Minsk, Belarus), the IPM Business School (Minsk), the High Tech Park Educational Center, Carnegie Mellon University, Software Engineering Institute, and IBA Institute. Number of employees trained in 2019: 1,470 Number of programs for career development in 2019: 157 The company organizes regular foreign language courses for employees. In 2019, 374 employees attended foreign language courses. Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Environmental Protection | Employee Support | IT Education | Charity and Inclusivity IBA Group 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2020 IBA Group Making Responsible Decisions Employee Support Training and Certification, 2019 Type of training Number of employees trained 2019 1,470 Professional development 1,032 Certification 64 Foreign language courses 374 Staff Training Programs in 2019 Year Number of training programs 2019 157 Foreign language courses 15 Professional development 142 The IBA Group team consists of leading industry professionals who combine creative ingenuity, strategic business thinking, and technical expertise. We create a unique working environment in which both gray-haired gurus and young professionals in the field of software development, project management, information security, and quality management feel comfortable and at ease. Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Environmental Protection | Employee Support | IT Education | Charity and Inclusivity IBA Group 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2020 IBA Group Making Responsible Decisions Employee Support CASE STUDY HR Strategy Recruitment & Employee Development Adaptation The company applies an HR management tool called Talent Constructor. Using this solution, each employee can devise an individual development path and follow it under supervision of a Targets & Profiles project manager or a division director. Talent Constructor is Efficiency constantly evolving and in 2019, the product family included Core seven HRM software products. Project Teams Integrated Assessment Training & Talent Constructor resolves HR management tasks Development and is seamlessly integrated with the HRM system of the company. Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Environmental Protection | Employee Support | IT Education | Charity and Inclusivity IBA Group 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2020 IBA Group Making Responsible Decisions Employee Support Search of Talents Relocation Creating and maintaining a team of first class IT and business Given the deficit of qualified specialists in specific IT fields, IBA Group invited a professionals is one of the company’s primary goals. To find number of qualified professionals from Russia and Israel to work in Belarus. qualified professionals, the company uses different methods, from Favorable living and working conditions contributed to the initiative’s success. training of young specialists to inviting specialists from other companies. IBA Group maintains a talent pool database that Referral Recruitment Program contains approximately 4,000 applicants. IBA Group applies a referral recruitment program to attract new qualified personnel. IBA employees refer candidates for filling job openings, as the Employing Young Personnel company has an excellent working environment and a positive reputation To improve the quality of education of IT specialists and develop among the industry’s specialists. new lines of business, IBA Group provides financial assistance and conducts training courses on advanced IT technologies at the joint IBA – university R&D labs. IBA experts share their practical Motivation and Social Guarantees experience with future IT specialists. Eventually, many of the course Striving to be a workplace of choice for the best IT professionals, IBA Group attendees join the IBA Group’s team. For more details, see IT creates a comfortable environment for employees’ productive work, and Education in the Making Responsible Decisions section of this professional and personal development. The company conducts research of Report. salary levels in the IT industry and adjusts remunerations at IBA Group accordingly. IBA Group has a motivation system in a form of motivation models. The system is based on KPIs and is instrumental in the assessment of employee efficiencies. The system has been functioning in a pilot mode since the end of 2019. Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Environmental Protection | Employee Support | IT Education | Charity and Inclusivity IBA Group 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2020 IBA Group Making Responsible Decisions Employee Support To empower IBA employees and their families, IBA Group offers a Social events are grouped into the following programs. package of social and financial benefits. The amount of benefits an • Medical care and recreation employee can receive depends on his or her qualification level. The • Financial assistance benefit package has been continuously expanding. • Improvement of living conditions In addition, IBA takes care of its retired employees. They participate in • Sports and tourism weekend tours or use free memberships for swimming pools and • Festive events and gifts saunas. • Children programs. To devise a social strategy and make timely decisions on employees’ The following fundamental principles are at the core of the benefit proposals, IBA organized a Council for Social Policy. Representatives of package. company management and divisions are members of the Council. • Mutual development. IBA employees contribute to the company’s development and the company takes care of the employees’ wellThe Council’s activities are governed by the Regulations on the Council for being and social security Social Policy. In addition to salaries, bonuses, and training courses at • Shared responsibility. Both employees and the company contribute leading IT educational centers, IBA Group employees who achieve to financing social campaigns outstanding results receive awards at special company events. • Accessibility. Social benefits are granted to employees, regardless of their performance • Transparency and openness. All employees can make proposals with regard to the improvement of the benefit package. Information about the benefit package is published on the IBA The IBA-developed application SOCIAL PACKAGE enables information resources employees to reduce the time spent on program selection and filing an application. The company analyzes the accumulated data to assess events’ results and improve the benefit package. Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Environmental Protection | Employee Support | IT Education | Charity and Inclusivity IBA Group 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2020 IBA Group Making Responsible Decisions Employee Support Medical Care IBA employees can receive medical services and medicines in the company’s medical rooms. The IBA first-aid rooms receive 4,217 visits per year. IBA employees can also receive medical services at healthcare institutions that have contracts with IBA. IBA employees can join the company’s medical insurance program. In 2019, 1196 employees and 284 employee relatives entered into medical insurance contracts. On average, 309 employees per month visited health centers in 2019. IBA Group organized a fluorography examination (286 employees) and a campaign entitled Oxygen Cocktails to the Office. Roughly, 360 employees per year receive therapeutic massage at the company premises. IBA Group organizes recreation of its employees and their family members. The procedure for provision of vouchers to IBA Group employees and their children, as well as for rehabilitation of children in recreational and sports camps is stipulated in the IBA Regulations on the Procedure for Provision of Sanatorium and Resort Treatment and Rehabilitation to Employees and their Children. In 2019, more than 100 children received vouchers for sanatoria and children camps. Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Environmental Protection | Employee Support | IT Education | Charity and Inclusivity IBA Group 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2020 IBA Group Making Responsible Decisions Employee Support Dwelling Program IBA Group provides interest-free loans to its employees who commission or buy flats or houses. The Provision on Loans to IBA Group Employees stipulates the approval procedure and the size of loans. The Provision on Waiting List and Distribution of Rented Flats (51 flats) regulates distribution of rented flats. Financial Assistance In addition to the social allowances granted by national and local laws, IBA Group provides financial assistance: • In the event of first marriage • In the event of childbirth • On parental leave up to three years • For recreation of employees’ children • To employees who have children with disabilities • As seasonal allowances • To war veterans and Chernobyl disaster fighters • In the event of retirement • In the event of death of a close relative of an employee or of a retired employee. Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Environmental Protection | Employee Support | IT Education | Charity and Inclusivity IBA Group 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2020 IBA Group Making Responsible Decisions Employee Support Sports and Tourism The company fosters a healthy way of life. IBA Group has its own fitness center located in the company’s campus in Minsk. IBA Group employees can practice in the gym or in fitness groups (aerobics, Pilates, yoga, and other) with professional trainers, or play tennis, football, volleyball, or basketball, or dance. In addition, IBA Group employees who work in different countries enjoy discounted or free recreation or fitness center memberships. IBA employees participate in internal, local, and national competitions in different sports, including mountain skiing, snowboarding, table tennis, basketball, volleyball, billiards, mini golf, swimming, mini soccer, clay target shooting, arching, tennis, karting, darts, kicker, and bowling. First, second, and third place winners are awarded medals, certificates, and gifts. IBA Group organizes tours and retreats. Every year, the company participates in national Half-Marathon races and holds a tourist rally. CASE STUDY 2019 Tourist Rally From June 21 to June 23, IBA Group organized a tourist rally in the Minsk Region with more than 1,000 participants. The program included bungee jumping, a rope obstacle course, rock climbing walls, and weight lifting. The strongest could go up against Vyacheslav Khoroneko, the six-time record holder of the English Guinness World Records. The participants could also take a ride at an armored surveillance vehicle, relax in a sauna, compete in a water rowing or kayak relay, immerse themselves in an intellectual quest, and play badminton or darts. A special program was devoted to children. They played with animators, rid catamarans or canoes, and had fun in an inflatable bounce castle. Teams competed in obstacle racing, mud racing, volleyball, badminton, rock climbing, and draniki (potato pancakes) contests. We also added a bike biathlon to the list of competition categories this year. Many retired and ex-IBAers, as well as university students came to the rally to feel themselves a part of the IBA Group’s family. Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Environmental Protection | Employee Support | IT Education | Charity and Inclusivity IBA Group 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2020 IBA Group Making Responsible Decisions Employee Support Children Program IBA Group organizes festive and training events for children of IBA employees and of the organizations the company supports. In 2019, the events included the following. • Attendance of circus performances by IBA families (1,595 tickets) • New Year presents (nearly 1,210) • ITlandia courses for schoolchildren (75 kids) and courses at the children’s development center Perspective (57 kids) • IBA Kids Park 2019 to celebrate Knowledge Day with 1,948 people in attendance, including 805 kids • Workshops for children with the International Academy of Creative Technologies IT Princess. In 2019, IBA Group conducted a course entitled Developer of the Future using the world café model. The participants were more than 30 children aged 12-15. Holidays and Gifts For long-term conscientious work and a significant personal contribution to the company’s development, in case of retirement, and on International Women’s Day, employees receive gifts or the company organizes special events for them. Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Environmental Protection | Employee Support | IT Education | Charity and Inclusivity IBA Group 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2020 IBA Group Making Responsible Decisions Employee Support Labor and Health Protection IBA Group applies a systematic approach to labor and health protection. The company fully observes national laws on labor protection and industry security, and complies with relevant international standards. IBA Group employees receive emails that contain information about prevention of accidents and the algorithm of actions, if the accidents occur. To increase occupational safety and prevent injuries, IBA Group performs the following actions. • Purchase of medical kits • Purchase of detergents and personal care products • Laboratory and instrumental examination of harmful environmental factors at workplaces • Blocking of leakage of tobacco smoke from smoking rooms • Monitoring of load bearing structures of office buildings • Maintaining first-aid rooms in major offices. Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Environmental Protection | Employee Support | IT Education | Charity and Inclusivity IBA Group 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2020 IBA Group Making Responsible Decisions IT Education IBA Group closely cooperates with higher educational institutions of Belarus, the Czech Republic, and Bulgaria, contributing to training of university students. The IBA Group’s university support programs include the following. • Training courses for students and teachers • Technical and financial assistance • Joint R&D labs. Courses for University Students IBA Group conducted free courses for students and teachers of BSU, BSUIR, the Belarusian State Technological University (BSTU), the BSUIR Institute of Information Technologies (BSUIR IIT), and Belarusian National Technical University (BNTU). The teachers were IBA experts, including software developers, testing engineers, business analysts, and team leaders. IBA uses the method ‘from theory to practice’, where students work on real IBA projects and use IBA technical resources, including the IBA Group partners with the Belarusian State University IBA Data Center. More than 30 IBA Group employees are (BSU) and the Belarusian State University of Informatics involved as part-time teachers. and Radioelectronics (BSUIR) in Minsk, with the Gomel Course graduates can start their career at IBA Group. In 2019, State University and the Gomel State Technical University 190 students completed 13 courses of 1,390 academic hours, in Gomel, with the Masaryk University in the Czech 690 students attended more than 30 workshops of 1,700 Republic, and the Burgas Free University in Bulgaria. academic hours, and 344 students had internships at IBA Group. Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Environmental Protection | Employee Support | IT Education | Charity and Inclusivity IBA Group 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2020 IBA Group Making Responsible Decisions IT Education Number of Course Name students SAP Technologies for Digital Transformation, spring 22 SAP Technologies for Digital Transformation, fall 20 Java and Web Development 18 Applied Multiplatform Programming, spring 17 Applied Multiplatform Programming, fall 14 System Multiplatform Programming, spring 17 System Multiplatform Programming, fall 10 Software Testing 12 Data Science Lab 14 Design and Development of DWH and Big Data Analytic 14 Systems Based on course results, IBA Group employed 45 students and Fundamentals of Business Analytics Using SAP Cognos 12 graduates. In aggregate, IBA Group recruited 111 university RPA Using UiPath 10 graduates and students in 2019. System programming using C++ 10 Total 190 Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Environmental Protection | Employee Support | IT Education | Charity and Inclusivity IBA Group 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2020 IBA Group Making Responsible Decisions IT Education IBA Group organizes tours of its campus in Belarus High Tech Park and other offices for university students. On May 13, 2019, IBA Group hosted a meeting with third-year students of the Faculty of Mechanics and Mathematics of BSU within the project Journey Across Technologies with IBA Group. The company’s employees presented career opportunities and social benefits offered by IBA Group. In addition, students of the faculties of Mechanics and Mathematics and of Applied Mathematics and Informatics of BSU, and of the Faculty of Information Technologies and Management of BSUIR visited the IBA Group campus. IBA Group supports students’ traditions. For the students who work in Belarusian software development centers, the company organizes In 2019, students of BSU and BSUIR visited the IBA Group’s annual events devoted to Student Day. campus in Belarus’ High Tech Park. Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Environmental Protection | Employee Support | IT Education | Charity and Inclusivity IBA Group 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2020 IBA Group Making Responsible Decisions IT Education Hackathons IBA Group assisted in the organization of the hackathons Mind Games 3 (30 participants, 8 teams) and Mind Games 4. Digital Universe (62 students, 11 teams). Students of BSU, the International Sakharov Environmental Institute, and BNTU participated. IBA experts conducted master classes, worked as jury members, and advised and supported the competing teams. Afterwards, the company assisted the Hackathon winners in preparation for the international contest IT Planet. Their projects were selected as winners among 20,000 participants from 920 higher educational institutions representing 11 countries. Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Environmental Protection | Employee Support | IT Education | Charity and Inclusivity IBA Group 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2020 IBA Group Making Responsible Decisions IT Education IT Contests IBA Group provided financial and technical support to the BSU team that competed in the finals of the IT championship for students and graduates IT Planet 2018/19 held from October 3 to October 7 in Moscow, Russia. The team was the best among 25 Belarusian teams that participated in the contest. IBA Group provided financial and technical support to the BSUIR student teams that participated in the semi-finals of the North Eurasia region (Russia, Azerbaijan, Armenia, Belarus, Georgia, Kazakhstan, Kirgizia, Latvia, Lithuania, and Uzbekistan) at ACM ICPC 2018-2019. IBA Group provided support to the ninth BSUIR open championship in sport programming. Forty-four student teams from Belarus, Russia, Ukraine, and Serbia competed. As a feedback, IBA received a letter from Vadim Bogush, BSUIR Chancellor, who expressed appreciation of the IBA Group’s contribution to the education of young people in Belarus. In addition, IBA Group contributed to the organization of WEBPROG-2019, a championship in computer science and web programming, and the National Olympiad on Management. Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Environmental Protection | Employee Support | IT Education | Charity and Inclusivity IBA Group 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2020 IBA Group Making Responsible Decisions IT Education Support of Regional Universities IBA Institute signed cooperation agreements with the Polessky State University and Vitebsk State University to train teachers who can later conduct training and certification of students. Two teachers received CISCO Academy (CSAI) certificates and one teacher a Microsoft (MCT) certificate. As a result, the teachers are authorized to provide certified courses to students of these universities. R&D Labs IBA Group maintains R&D Labs at the following universities. 1) International Sakharov Environmental Institute of BSU 2) Faculty of Information Technologies and Management of BSUIR 3) Faculty of Computer System and Networks of BSUIR 4) BSU On May 20, IBA Group and SAP CIS held an official opening of the innovative SAP Next-Gen Lab at the International Sakharov Environmental Institute. In 2019, IBA Group renovated premises and equipped labs with computers and peripherals, air conditioners, visual aids, and furniture to create environment conducive to R&D, as well as purchased drones and 3D printers. Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Environmental Protection | Employee Support | IT Education | Charity and Inclusivity IBA Group 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2020 IBA Group Making Responsible Decisions Charity and Inclusivity Guided by the IBA CSR Program, the company supports educational institutions, museums, and other non-governmental organizations. In 2019, the company provided financial support to the following organizations. • Inclusive Family Theater for Children with Autism • Belarusian Children’s Hospice • High school in Tolochinsky Rayon of Vitebsk Region • Minsk Grammar School #75 • Center Evrika for Continuing Education of Children and Youth • Autistic Children Help Center • Belarusian Red Cross Society • Departments of education at local governing bodies. Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Environmental Protection | Employee Support | IT Education | Charity and Inclusivity IBA Group 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2020 IBA Group Making Responsible Decisions Charity and Inclusivity IBA Group maintained the Auto Volunteers application for the Belarusian Children’s Hospice. The Hospice uses the application to organize transportation of children with disabilities by volunteers in their cars. The company proceeded with support of the Belarusian Children’s Hospice through equipping the summer recreation camp Aist with computers and other devices. IBA Group provides financial support to the Inclusive Family Theater for children with autism, covering premises rent, public utilities, scenery, costumes, and technical devices. In 2019, the theater conducted the following performances: Once Upon a Time in a Big City and Eight Senses. Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Environmental Protection | Employee Support | IT Education | Charity and Inclusivity IBA Group 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2020 IBA Group Making Responsible Decisions Charity and Inclusivity In 2019, IBA Group began cooperating with the UNCHR in Belarus through donation of computers to the Center for Continuing Education of Children and Youth Evrika attended by refugees’ children. IBA Group provided financial support to the Red Cross society for the project Patronage Service in the Regions and supported World War 2 veterans. Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices Environmental Protection | Employee Support | IT Education | Charity and Inclusivity IBA Group 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2020 IBA Group Appendices Appendix 1. About this Report The IBA Group 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report (Report) The Report complies with the following standards. contains information about the company’s results for 2019 and plans for • Global Reporting Initiative (GRI SRS, Core) further development. In addition, the Report shows innovative approaches • 17 UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) and practices the company applies in its operations. • Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact • International standards for stakeholder engagement This document serves as an instrument for the company’s communication • АА1000 by the Institute of Social and Ethical Accountability with a wide range of stakeholders, including employees, customers, IBA Group seeks to integrate the UN SDG in the company’s strategy. partners, government authorities, communities, and mass media. The Report provides integral and comprehensive information about the IBA Report Structure Group’s activities related to sustainable development. The Report provides information about the IBA Group’s approaches to governance, and operations and plans in economic, environmental, and CSR CSR and sustainability reporting gives a number of benefits to IBA Group. areas. The company is able to: The Report includes an overview of the company’s activities in the following • Identify the stance of stakeholders to IBA activities areas. • Confirm that the company takes into account the perceptions of • Corporate governance stakeholders and builds trust in the company • Business ethics • Foster improvement of internal and external processes • Stakeholder engagement • Build and maintain a sustainable reputation • HR management • Increase competitiveness. • Environment protection. Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices About This Report | Key Awards and Achievements of IBA Group in 2019| Terms and Abbreviations | GRI Standards Content Index | Feedback Form | Contact Information IBA Group 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2020 IBA Group Appendices Appendix 1. About this Report Boundaries When preparing the document, IBA updated the list of essential aspects and The Report contains a number of forecasts and predictions with regard to a number of aspects that are not essential for the stakeholders were not the company’s future, plans, and expected results. These statements disclosed in detail. We also look forward to receiving proposals on how to reflect the IBA Group’s expectations and intentions. However, they are improve the Report. To this end, we attached a feedback form. associated with inherent risks and uncertainty, as their further Principles for Defining Report Quality implementation depends on a large number of various factors, many of which are beyond the company's control, including global economic and The Report quality is guaranteed through the use of the following GRI political conditions, and changes in tax, environmental or other laws. principles. Therefore, the actual results may differ directly or indirectly from those • Balance stated in the Report. • Comparability Reporting Principles • Accuracy Principles for Defining Report Content • Clarity The Report was prepared in accordance with the Core option of the GRI • Reliability Sustainability Reporting Standards. Appendix 4 provides a GRI content index. • Timeliness. Essential Aspects Internal Procedures for Defining Report Quality and Reliability IBA Group identified the aspects that are most essential for the company IBA Group is in the process of building a corporate reporting system. and its stakeholders, and can influence the decisions about the Company divisions responsible for provision of information about each of company’s future. We aimed to make the Report useful and concise. the priority areas of sustainable development examined the quality and reliability of the texts and numbers. Therefore, the information disclosed in the Report is accurate. Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices About This Report | Key Awards and Achievements of IBA Group in 2019| Terms and Abbreviations | GRI Standards Content Index | Feedback Form | Contact Information IBA Group 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2020 IBA Group Appendices Appendix 2. Key Awards and Achievements of IBA Group in 2019 In 2019, IBA Group for the seventh consecutive IBM appointed IBA Group as an IBM Platinum year was included in the Leader category of The Business Partner. SAP appointed IBA as its Gold Global Outsourcing 100 (For more information, Services Business Partner and recognized IBA’s see Sustainability Management in Section 2. expertise in SAP Travel and Transportation, SAP Developing a Sustainable Business). This year, Utilities, SAP Oil & Gas, and SAP HANA. Siemens IAOP summed up the results of the rating for the appointed IBA as a Silver Partner for MindSphere, a past decade and compiled the Best of The Global cloud-based IoT operating system. Outsourcing 100, the list of the best outsourcing providers for the entire decade of the rating. IAOP recognized IBA Group in the categories Top Leaders, Customer References, Top Innovation, Top CSR, and Multiple Appearances. As an authorized Visa solution provider, IBA Group IBA Group was selected a winner of European IT & launched Tap to Phone solutions in Ukraine and Software Excellence Awards 2019 in the category Belarus. The Tap to Phone technology is an Big Data, IoT or Analytics Solution of the Year. It evolution of the mobile acquiring technology, was the seventh IBA Group’s award in this contest enabling a smartphone to work as a point of sales organized by IT Europa since the contest’s (POS). inception. The award-winning Profitability Management Solution was one of the first implementations of SAP Profitability and Performance Management 3.0 in the world. Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices About This Report | Key Awards and Achievements of IBA Group in 2019| Terms and Abbreviations | GRI Standards Content Index | Feedback Form | Contact Information IBA Group 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2020 IBA Group Appendices Appendix 3. Terms and Abbreviations АА1000 is a standard for assessing and strengthening the credibility and CMMI (Capability Maturity Model Integration) is a process level quality of an organization’s social, economic, and environmental improvement training and appraisal program. Administered by the CMMI reporting. It is primarily intended for use by external auditing bodies Institute, a subsidiary of ISACA, it was developed at Carnegie Mellon that assure organization’s reports or social accounts (Assurance University (CMU). Providers) but can also be used to guide any organization when building (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Capability_Maturity_Model_Integration) its accountability processes, systems and abilities. Unlike other similar standards, AA1000 seeks to instill a culture of continuous development Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), also called corporate sustainability, through stakeholder responsiveness. sustainable business, corporate conscience, corporate citizenship, conscious B2B (business-to-business) is a situation where one business makes a capitalism, or responsible business) is a type of international private commercial transaction with another. business self-regulation (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Business-to-business) (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Corporate_social_responsibility) Big Data is a field that treats ways to analyze, systematically extract G2B (government-to-business) is a suite of software and hardware tools for information from, or otherwise deal with data sets that are too large or online communication of government bodies and businesses designed to complex to be dealt with by traditional data processing application support and develop business, including websites of government authorities software. (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Big_data) and e-procurement portals. Cloud technologies or cloud computing is a general term for anything G2C (government-to-citizen or government-to-consumer) is a situation that involves delivering hosted services over the internet. These services when a government agency communicates with the general public are broadly divided into three categories: Infrastructure-as-a-Service (https://acronyms.thefreedictionary.com/G2C) (IaaS), Platform-as-a-Service (PaaS) and Software-as-a-Service (SaaS). The name cloud computing was inspired by the cloud symbol that's High Tech Park (HTP) is a tax and legal regime in Belarus, contributing to the often used to represent the internet in flowcharts and diagrams favorable development of IT business. It is a Belarusian analog of Silicon (https://searchcloudcomputing.techtarget.com/definition/cloudValley in the US. The companies registered in HTP can enjoy tax benefits, computing) regardless of the location of their Belarusian office. Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices About This Report | Key Awards and Achievements of IBA Group in 2019| Terms and Abbreviations | GRI Standards Content Index | Feedback Form | Contact Information IBA Group 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2020 IBA Group Appendices Appendix 3. Terms and Abbreviations Internet of Things (IoT) is the extension of internet connectivity into Sustainable development is the organizing principle for meeting human physical devices and everyday objects. Embedded with electronics, internet development goals while simultaneously sustaining the ability of natural connectivity, and other forms of hardware (such as sensors), these devices systems to provide the natural resources and ecosystem services upon can communicate and interact with others over the internet, and they can which the economy and society depend. The desired result is a state of be remotely monitored and controlled. society where living conditions and resources are used to continue to (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Internet_of_things) meet human needs without undermining the integrity and stability of ISO 9001 is the international standard for a quality management system the natural system. (QMS). The standard is used by organizations to demonstrate their ability to (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sustainable_development) consistently provide products and services that meet customer and Sustainable development goals (SDGs) are a collection of 17 global regulatory requirements and to demonstrate continuous improvement goals set by the United Nations General Assembly in 2015 for the year (https://the9000store.com/what-are-iso-9000-standards/what-is-iso2030. The SDGs are part of Resolution 70/1 of the United Nations 9001/) General Assembly, the 2030 Agenda. Outsourcing is an agreement in which one company hires another company (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sustainable_Development_Goals) to be responsible for a planned or existing activity that is or could be done The UN Global Compact is the world's largest corporate sustainability internally and sometimes involves transferring employees and assets from (a.k.a. corporate social responsibility) initiative with 13,000 corporate one firm to another. (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Outsourcing) participants and other stakeholders over 170 countries with two PDCA (plan–do–check–act or plan–do–check–adjust) is an iterative fourobjectives: Mainstream the ten principles in business activities around step management method used in business for the control and continuous the world and Catalyze actions in support of broader UN goals, such as improvement of processes and products. the Millennium Development Goals and Sustainable Development Goals (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PDCA). (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_Nations_Global_Compact) Robotic Process Automation (RPA) is a business process automation Tons of coal equivalent (TCE) is a unit of fuel, equal in its energy value to technology based on the notion of metaphorical software robots or a ton of coal. artificial intelligence (AI) workers (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Robotic_process_automation) Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices About This Report | Awards and Recognition | Terms and Abbreviations | GRI Standards Content Index | Feedback Form | Contact Information IBA Group 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2020 IBA Group Appendices Appendix 4. GRI Standards Content Index GRI Indicators Business Theme Report Section SDG GRI 102: General Disclosures Organizational Profile GRI 102-1 Name of the organization Managing the Organization GRI 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and Managing the Organization services GRI 102-3 Location of headquarters Managing the Organization GRI 102-4 Location of operations Managing the Organization GRI 102-5 Ownership and legal form Managing the Organization. Appendices GRI 102-6 Markets served Managing the Organization GRI 102-7 Scale of the organization Managing the Organization GRI 102-10 Significant changes to the No significant changes organization and its supply chain GRI 102-12 External initiatives Developing Sustainable Business GRI 102-13 Membership of associations Developing Sustainable Business Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices About This Report | Awards and Recognition | Terms and Abbreviations | Appendix 4. GRI Standards Content Index Feedback Form | Contact Information IBA Group 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2020 IBA Group Appendices Appendix 4. GRI Standards Content Index GRI Indicators Business Theme Report Section SDG GRI 102: General Disclosures Strategy GRI 102-14 Statement from senior decisionMessage from the IBA Group Chairman maker Ethics and Conscientiousness GRI 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and Managing the Organization 16. Peace, Justice, and Strong Institutions norms of behavior Corporate Governance GRI 102-18 Governance structure Managing the Organization GRI 102-22 Composition of the highest Managing the Organization 5. Gender Equality governance body and its committees 16. Peace, Justice, and Strong Institutions Stakeholder Engagement GRI 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Developing Sustainable Business. Appendices GRI 102-43 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Developing Sustainable Business Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices About This Report | Awards and Recognition | Terms and Abbreviations | Appendix 4. GRI Standards Content Index Feedback Form | Contact Information IBA Group 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2020 IBA Group Appendices Appendix 4. GRI Standards Content Index GRI Indicators Business Theme Report Section SDG GRI 102: General Disclosures Reporting Procedure GRI 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated Managing the Organization. Appendices financial statements GRI 102-46 Defining report content and topic Appendices boundaries GRI 102-52 Reporting cycle Appendices GRI 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding Appendices the report GRI 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance Appendices with the GRI Standards GRI 102-55 GRI content index Appendices GRI 302: Energy GRI 103-1 External assurance Making Responsible Decisions GRI 103-2 Management Approach Making Responsible Decisions Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices About This Report | Awards and Recognition | Terms and Abbreviations | Appendix 4. GRI Standards Content Index Feedback Form | Contact Information IBA Group 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2020 IBA Group Appendices Appendix 4. GRI Standards Content Index GRI Indicators Business Theme Report Section SDG GRI 302: Energy GRI 302-1 Energy consumption within the Making Responsible Decisions 12. Responsible Production and organization Consumption GRI 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Making Responsible Decisions 8. Decent Work and Economic Growth 12. Responsible Production and Consumption GRI 307: Environmental Compliance GRI 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental No monetary fines or non-monetary 16. Peace, Justice, and Strong laws and regulations sanctions imposed on the company Institutions GRI 400: Social GRI 401: Employment GRI 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time Making Responsible Decisions 8. Decent Work and Economic Growth employees and not provided to temporary or part-time employees GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety GRI 403-6 Promotion of worker health Making Responsible Decisions 3. Good Health and Well-Being 8. Decent Work and Economic Growth Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices About This Report | Awards and Recognition | Terms and Abbreviations | Appendix 4. GRI Standards Content Index Feedback Form | Contact Information IBA Group 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2020 IBA Group Appendices Appendix 4. GRI Standards Content Index GRI Indicators Business Theme Report Section SDG GRI 400: Social GRI 404: Training and Education GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and Making Responsible Decisions its Boundary GRI 103-2 The management approach and its Making Responsible Decisions components GRI 404-1 Average hours of training per year per Making Responsible Decisions 4. Quality Education employee 5. Gender Equality 8. Decent Work and Economic Growth GRI 404-2 5 Programs for upgrading employee Making Responsible Decisions 8. Decent Work and Economic Growth skills and transition assistance programs GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity GRI 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and Making Responsible Decisions 5. Gender Equality employees 8. Decent Work and Economic Growth Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices About This Report | Awards and Recognition | Terms and Abbreviations | Appendix 4. GRI Standards Content Index Feedback Form | Contact Information IBA Group 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2020 IBA Group Appendices Appendix 4. GRI Standards Content Index GRI Indicators Business Theme Report Section SDG GRI 400: Social GRI 406: Non-Discrimination GRI 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and No cases of discrimination 5. Gender Equality corrective actions taken 8. Decent Work and Economic Growth 16. Peace, Justice, and Strong Institutions GRI 408: Child Labor GRI 408-1 Operations and suppliers at No cases. Prohibited by law 8. Decent Work and Economic Growth significant risk for incidents of child 16. Peace, Justice, and Strong labor Institutions Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices About This Report | Awards and Recognition | Terms and Abbreviations | Appendix 4. GRI Standards Content Index Feedback Form | Contact Information IBA Group 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2020 IBA Group Appendices Appendix 4. GRI Standards Content Index GRI Indicators Business Theme Report Section SDG GRI 400: Social GRI 409: Forced or Compulsory Labor GRI 409-1 Operations and suppliers at No cases. Prohibited by law 8. Decent Work and Economic Growth significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor GRI 411: Rights of Indigenous Peoples GRI 411-1 Incidents of violations involving rights N/A of indigenous peoples Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices About This Report | Awards and Recognition | Terms and Abbreviations | Appendix 4. GRI Standards Content Index Feedback Form | Contact Information IBA Group 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2020 IBA Group Appendices Appendix 4. GRI Standards Content Index GRI Indicators Business Theme Report Section SDG GRI 400: Social GRI 412: Human Rights GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and Managing the Organization its Boundary GRI 103-2 The management approach and its Managing the Organization components GRI 413: Local Communities GRI 103-2 The management approach and its Making Responsible Decisions components Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices About This Report | Awards and Recognition | Terms and Abbreviations | Appendix 4. GRI Standards Content Index Feedback Form | Contact Information IBA Group 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2020 IBA Group Appendices Appendix 5. Feedback Form Dear reader, You have just read the IBA Group 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report. We strive for the most transparent and honest dialogue with all interested parties and will be grateful, if you can help improve the quality of company reporting by answering a few simple questions. You can access our feedback form by clicking the button below. Thank you! Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices About This Report | Awards and Recognition | Terms and Abbreviations | Appendix 4. GRI Standards Content Index | Feedback Form | Contact Information IBA Group 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report © 2020 IBA Group Appendices Appendix 6. Contact Information IBA Group a.s., 2583/13 Petržílkova St., Prague 5, 158 00, Czech Republic Tel.: +420 251 116 206 Fax: +420 251 116 211 Email: info@ibagroupit.com www.ibagroupit.com Managing the Company | Developing a Sustainable Business | Implementing Innovations | Making Responsible Decisions | Appendices About This Report | Awards and Recognition | Terms and Abbreviations | Appendix 4. GRI Standards Content Index Feedback Form | Contact Information
