United Nations GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on the 2020 Progress Developing tomorrow’s networks today CONTENT I. The Editorial of the General Manager ......................................... 3 II. Telenco networks ....................................................................... 4 III. Reminder: The Global Compact and its 10 principles ................ 5 IV. Human Right Principles .............................................................. 6 a. Our policy ................................................................................ 6 b. Our actions ............................................................................. 6 c. Our results and goals .............................................................. 7 V. International Labour Standards .................................................. 8 a. Our policy ................................................................................ 8 b. Our actions ............................................................................. 8 c. Our results and goals .............................................................. 10 VI. Environmental Protection Principles ......................................... 11 a. Our policy ................................................................................ 11 b. Our actions ............................................................................. 12 c. Our results and goals .............................................................. 13 VII. Anti-Corruption ........................................................................ 14 a. Our policy ................................................................................ 14 b. Our actions ............................................................................. 14 c. Our results and goals .............................................................. 15 VIII. Conclusion for the year 2020 .................................................. 16 3 I. The Editorial of the General Manager Telenco networks is pleased to announce its commitment to the United Nations Global Compact for the forth year in a row. Driven by the experience of these previous years of commitment, we are persuaded that our succes is partly the result of our corporate strategy based on sustainable development. Through this editorial, I would like to renew for this year, once again, on behalf of the entire Telenco networks company our commitment to United Nations Global Compact and above all, to reaffirm our complete adhesion to its principles. From a GC Active level, we confirm the pursuit of our efforts in terms of sustainable development and our constant will to apply the 10 Principles of Global Compact through our each and every action. In this report you will find our commitment, our ambitions, our actions and above all, the reflection of our contribution to the universal framework of the United Nations, as well as our constant seeking to supporting the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Denis Falliex Denis Falliex General Manager of Telenco networks 4 II. Telenco networks 210 79 50 2019 Turnover Export to over 8400 7600 Workforce millions of euros m2 m2 countries manufacturing hub logistics hub 5 III. Reminder: The Global Compact and its 10 principles The Global Compact, what is it ? Coordinated by the United Nations, Global Compact is a volontary initiative. Global Compact involves 13,000 entities from 170 countries, all committed to a social responsibility approach. In France, there are 1,095 members, including 1,026 companies. Global Compact reunites signatory companies and organisations committed to respecting and « ensuring respect » for the 10 universally recognised principles. HUMAN RIGHTS 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed Human Rights. 2. Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in Human Rights abuses. INTERNATIONAL LABOUR STANDARDS 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. 4. Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. 5. Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. 6. Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. ENVIRONMENT 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. 8. Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. 9. Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. ANTI-CORRUPTION 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 6 IV. Human Rights Principles HUMAN RIGHTS • Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed Human Rights. • Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in Human Rights abuses. a. Our policy Rights. In 2020, Telenco remains true to its core values and In order to preserve the interest of its teams, Telenco commitments by pursuing its actions with associations and networks respects the principles proclaimed by the Universal charities that are dear to its heart. This year, once again, Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR) and, of course, those Telenco renews its support to the association of Philippe enacted by the French law. Sella, « Les Enfants de l’Ovale », as well as to the « FCG As part of this approach and to the extent of its influence in my city » endowment fund of the Grenoble Rugby capacity, Telenco networks also encourages its suppliers to Club, by reiterating operations such as 1km = 1 euro or respect these international rules and to keep on making by participating to charity events in the benefit of these every effort to ensure compliance with the Global Compact associations. This year, Telenco has donated 5,000€ to « Les values. Enfants de l’Ovale » for supporting their project of opening b. Our actions a new house in Ivory Coast. Telenco networks ensures that the French law is scrupulously This year, Telenco was also at the initiative of « Cleats for respected through each contractual relationship of every Senegal » operation which aimed to collect sport equipment one of its employees. Working safely remains one of our for two Senagalese football clubs: Palmarin and Gandiaye. top priorities. It goes without saying that the Commercial Shipped to Dakar in a container for our on site agency and Code is respected in our relations with our suppliers, both thanks to our local team, the equipment was handed to the of goods and services. respresentatives of these clubs bringing alltogether more Without any legal imperative, we have made the choice more than 150 football enthusiasts: than obvious to apply international regulations (Example: • 299 jersey • 66 shorts • 62 balls • 39 pairs of football Dodd Franck Act), always with the aim of preserving Human cleats • 40 pairs of basket shoes • 51 pairs of sockets 7 IV. Human Rights Principles According to the Article 23 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, everyone has the right to work, to free choice of employment, to fair and favourable work conditions and to protection against unemployment. For several years now, Telenco has actively supported « The Digital Plumbers » association that provides training in their own schools and forms future technicians to fibre deployment, rack and datacenter cabling jobs. All in a context of work-linked training. The company has donated professional equipment and offered preferential rates for the opening of these schools throughout France. Telenco has already contributed to equipping 6 schools in France. Soon, a new establishment will open its doors in Isère, in the proximity of the Group’s headquarters. In addition to the equipment donation, eleven tutorials were produced by our telecom experts to provide trainees with a better understanding of the technical skills and knowledge. c. Our results and goals 13.6 0.46 24 300€ 13 000€ 40 000€ The injury frequency rate The injury severity rate Ont été versés à Were donated to the Of equipment has been granted for 2019 per million of for 2019 per thousand of l’association association « Les enfants de to « The Digital Plumbers » worked hours worked hours « Les enfants de l’Ovale » l’Ovale » in 2019 for the professional training (national average: 23) (national average: 1.5) en 2019 platforms established in Toulouse and Nantes schools. 8 V. International Labour Standards INTERNATIONAL LABOUR STANDARDS • Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. • Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. • Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour • Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. a. Our policy b. Our actions At Telenco networks, we apply the Syntec Collective In strict compliance with French laws, compulsory labour Agreement which allows all our employees to benefit of and child labour are prohibited. Our subsidiaries in Portugal more favourable conditions than the ones stipulated by the are no exception to the rule. Labour Code. We also expect our suppliers to respect, at Any discrimination is clearly prohibited (the relevant law least, the International Labour Law as well as the local law articles on this subject are diplayed). whenever this last one is more favourable to employees. A harassment and discrimination referent, appointed last We prohibit child labour and the use of corporal punishment, year, attended a week-long training session for being able which is why we reject any association with suppliers for to deal with difficult situations related to harassement and whom we have even the slightest doubt on these matters. discrimination that may arise. This training empowers the We refuse any discrimination. referent to provide the best possible support to employees experiencing these situations and above all, to prevent these risks. The Human Ressources representatives remain at the disposal of employees by ensuring a physical presence on site 3 times a week or by making themselves available, on demand. 9 V. International Labour Standards Establishment of a Social and Economic Fire & Safety Training Committee This year, some of our employees have received a fire and As required by the French Law, we have created a CSE: a safety training. The purpose of this training, carried out by Social and Economic Committee. This is a staff representative a specialized organisation, was to teach people who are body that follows and replaces former representative bodies. not firefighters how to effectively react from the very first The CSE is responsible for the preservation of employees’ moments of a fire outbreak. The aim of the action was, if not rights. This Committee currently includes 9 employees, to extinguish the fire, at least to delay and contain it before representing all the socio-professional categories of the the fire brigade intervention, without taking any risks. company. It has access to company data in order to ensure a sound administration by the Management. The CSE also Redesign of telenco-networks.com website ensures that the necessary measures are implemented in Telenco networks cares as much about training as about order to preserve the health of the staff members, such information: this is why on the digital side, seeking as during the Covid-19 global health crisis which required transparency, the Telenco networks’ website benefitted of a the enforcement of barrier gestures and special measures. massive overhaul. More than a relooking, a massive overhaul In addition, it provides assistance to employees who wish was conducted in order to improve access to information to solve individual relational problems, whether they are for customers and internal users. hierarchical or not. Finally, the CSE administrates a budget To optimise the user experience, a new architecture has dedicated to organising convivial, fun events and to setting been implemented. This will enable Internet users to better up services for the benefit of all employees. find their way and to benefit of an easier access to corporate information such as our CSR actions. Find this page on : www.telenco-networks.com/en/our-commitments 10 V. International Labour Standards c. Our results and goals 1 Social and Economic Committee formed of 5 Staff representatives for the « Employee » category: 2 titular members and 2 alternates. 9 4 Staff representatives for the « Executive, Technician, Supervisor » category: 2 titular members and 2 alternates. employees 75% 0 0 We do not keep statistics on the origins, confessions or other such criteria of our team. We strongly believe that this does not have to be taken into account in the professional sphere: it is not and it will never be part of the selection or evaluation criteria for our employees. Of employees have a Underaged worker Worker without contract permanent contract 25% are on a fixed-term, temporary or a subsidised contract 11 VI. Environmental Protection Principles ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PRINCIPLES • Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges • Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility • Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies a. Our policy La charte La charte Au quotidien, le personnel et les dirigeants s’engagent Find the charter on : Lors de la conception de ses produits, Telenco networks s’engage « Penser cycle de vie » « Trier/ Recycler » • Recycler les cartons, emballages, papiers, bois, métaux et capsules à café pendant le travail, mais www.telenco.com/engagement/environnement • Prendre en compte l’environnement dès l’expression et l’analyse du besoin également sur les temps de pause • Analyser les impacts dans leur globalité : de l’extraction des ressources à la fin de vie du produit, sans • Jeter les cartouches d’encre, piles et déchets électroniques selon la réglementation DEEE en vigueur se concentrer uniquement sur la fabrication • Gérer le recyclage des produits dangereux utilisés lors de la conception des produits • Considérer les différents aspects de l’environnement (épuisement des ressources, pollutions, effet de serre, altération des écosystèmes,…) « Consommer avec modération » • Utiliser les faces verso des ratés d’impression en brouillon « Choisir ses matériaux » • Développer l’archivage informatique • Ne pas recourir à des matériaux interdits par les réglementations européennes REACH et ROHS ou la loi américaine Dodd-Frank • Ne pas imprimer systématiquement les courriels • Favoriser l’usage de matériaux recyclés dans les produits et les emballages (taux d’acceptation de matière recyclée/recherche de fournisseurs de matières premières recyclées en R3 et R4) • Opter pour les matériaux les moins énergivores en limitant la production de déchets (matériaux d’origine naturelle/matériaux produits avec des process faiblement énergétiques et à faible taux de « Maîtriser les énergies » rebuts/ajustement du raffinement au besoin : pas de blanchiment ou d’adjuvants inutiles) • Éteindre les lumières dans les bureau et les locaux communs en les quittant • Éteindre systématiquement les postes informatiques, imprimantes... • Couper le robinet après utilisation « Produire responsable » • Trouver le bon équilibre chaud/froid l’été et l’hiver • Privilégier les process les moins polluants et produisant le moins de déchets (technologies récentes, • Aménager les locaux en utilisant dès que possible des technologies éco-responsables acceptations de taux de rebuts rebroyés,…) • Limiter le transport nécessaire à la fabrication en évitant les choix de technologies pouvant conditionner une provenance éloignée et aborder les impacts et coûts globaux du transport en « Bouger autrement » réunion R3 et R4. (Réduction des émissions de gaz à effet de serre liés aux transports) • Adopter une éco-conduite • Développer le covoiturage « Anticiper la fin de vie » • Privilégier les rendez-vous téléphoniques plutôt que les déplacements systématiques • Faciliter le désassemblage des produits en fin de vie et la séparation des matières, en privilégiant • Favoriser les modes de transports doux les assemblages démontables au moyen d’outils standards et en évitant les matériaux « sandwichs » • Restreindre le nombre de composants et de matières différentes afin de réduire les étapes de valorisation • Favoriser les matériaux recyclables dans les produits et les emballages : carton, métaux, bois, ou à La société s’engage défaut plastiques recyclables non-chargés (PET, PEHD, PS, ABS, PVC,…) « Former et informer » « Communiquer » (pour mieux agir) • Sensibiliser les salariés et les impliquer dans les initiatives environnementales de l’entreprise • Diffuser la Charte à l’ensemble du personnel • Communiquer à nos parties intéressées notre engagement • Mettre à disposition et signaler des zones de tri en faveur du développement durable, notamment via le Global Compact des Nations Unies auquel Telenco networks est adhérent. « Acheter mieux » • Privilégier les achats éco responsables et les fournitures à longues durée de vie ou rechargeables « Assurer le suivi de la charte » • Favoriser le partenariat avec les acteurs locaux et/ou ISO 14001 • Réaliser un suivi annuel de la consommation énergétique • Approvisionner des composants RoHS compliant pour nos et mettre en place des actions pour résoudre les problèmes besoins de réparations électroniques soulevés. www.telenco.com Développons aujourd’hui les réseaux de demain www.telenco.com Développons aujourd’hui les réseaux de demain 12 VI. Environmental Protection Principles b. Our actions Furthermore, for the protecting of the environment and to encourage our employees to use environment-friendly In view of the obvious risks, the transport of dangerous transportation modes, we continue to participate in our goods is governed by very strict international regulations. Region’s Ecomobility Challenge. On the occasion, breakfast As each mode of transport has its own specific constraints is offered to all employees who come to work on foot, by and risks, there are regulations which are particular to each train, by bicycle or by carpooling. one of these modes. These regulations ratify unified rules on quantities, packaging, labelling, technical safety measures, administrative declarations, etc. The regulations for the Transport of Dangerous Goods (TDG) being complex, training is necessary in order to aprehend them. All our new sales representatives have been trained on the subject this year. At Telenco networks: • Declarations are established and signed by an authorized body • Documents are kept 1 year by the designated authorized body (proof of completion of administrative procedures + photo of the packaging) • The proof of the information transmission to the carrier is kept by Telenco •The UN number of each concerned reference is available in our Enterprise Ressource Planning, as well as Safety Data Sheets. • A shipment including dangerous goods is made according to the dedicated procedure and operation mode. 13 VI. Environmental Protection Principles Information on environment-friendly modes of transport and the related compensations are disseminated. In our municipality there are two train stations and we refund half of the cost of public transport passes and/or bike rental fees. In order to have a positive impact on the environment, hives were installed in June 2019. After a difficult summer season due to drought, heat and lack of water, our colonies did not develop enough to completely fill in the hive. However, with the arrival of good weather, the first cleansing and foraging flights herald good harvests to come. Finally, each employee received a bamboo cup to minimize and to ultimately eliminate the use of plastic cups during the coffee break. c. Our results and goals 1012km 6 2257€ 88% 20 17 Travelled other than Charging stations: Transport Of waste Employees trained Employees trained in by car by Telenco 4 for electric bicycles compensation paid is recovered in the Transport of Fire Risk employees on the 2 for cars in 2019 (in n° removals) Dangerous Goods Challenge day 14 VII. Anti-Corruption ANTI-CORRUPTION • Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. a. Our policy b. Our actions For the past five years, Telenco networks had its own Code of Ethical Conduit, signed by all its employees, at all levels of Code de conduite éthique responsibility and applied at the scale of the entire Telenco 1. Assurer la sécurité de nos collaborateurs • Garantir un milieu de travail sûr et de bonnes conditions de travail pour tous • Suivre les règles et procédures indispensables à la sécurité de chacun (garder nos lieux de travail Group. libres d’alcool et de drogues, porter en tout temps l’équipement de protection individuel exigé,...) An ethical referent has been appointed among the 2. Traiter les autres avec respect et dignité • Comprendre et apprécier l’importance de la diversité et de l’inclusion Managament members and a memorandum was dissaminated in order to define the notion of «acceptable» • Favoriser un environnement de travail libre de comportements choquants, insultants, hostiles ou intimidants 3. Protéger l’environnement gift, a procedure for accepting gifts, contracts or transactions in case of doubt, as well as an alert procedure. • Réduire nos émissions, préserver l’énergie et les autres ressources, réutiliser ou recycler les produits dérivés 4. Mener les affaires avec intégrité et uniquement au profit de la société • S’abstenir de tout comportement qui nuirait à la réputation de l’entreprise • Éviter toute situation où l’acceptation d’un cadeau serait inappropriée 5. Mener nos activités de manière licite et équitable • Respecter les lois et règlements nationales et internationales • Fournir seulement des informations honnêtes et exactes quant aux produits ou services • Prohiber le travail d’enfant ou le travail forcé 6. Garantir la sécurité des données et la protection de la vie privée • Préserver et protéger tous les renseignements personnels dont nous disposons • Ne pas utiliser des informations confidentielles à l’extérieur de nos responsabilités ou pour un bénéfice personnel www.telenco.com Développons aujourd’hui les réseaux de demain 15 VII. Anti-Corruption In order to turn the words into deeds, an anti-corruption training has been put into place, based on the training Find the training support on: material designated by Transparency International. This www.fairedesaffairessanscorruption.com training concerns all staff exposed to international markets as well as decision-makers: management, marketers, sales representatives and purchasers. A training session for the staff in place had been carried out at that time. But we couldn’t stop there. Indeed, Telenco networks is a fastgrowing company and we recruit new employees every year. This year once again, training sessions allowed each one of these new recruits to benefit of the same level of knowledge as the rest of our teams. c. Our results and goals For the 5 past years 100% 3 2 0 Of our new employees have Ethical referents within the Anti-corruption training Tolerance in the event of signed the Code of Ethical Telenco Group sessions a proven corruption case, Conduit including 1 within even for a small amounts Telenco networks of money 16 VIII. Conclusion on the year 2020 Rue Séraphin Martin ZA Valmorge 38430 Moirans Tel : +33 (0) 476 350 015 www.telenco-networks.com After a 2019 year of stabilization, the year 2020 has finally allowed us to visualize and appreciate the results of our efforts. A healthy organization and actions carried out with seriousness by our teams, always in the strictest respect of the 10 principles of the Global Compact. We are permanently consolidating our GC Active level thanks to our processes of adaptation to the evolutions of our company and to the general context. This has been an unprecedent year as we had to face an exceptional event, a global health crisis, in sustained working conditions linked to a growing activity, where each employee was able to continue to work and feel safe at Telenco networks.
