Strategy Welcome to read about our contribution to circular bioeconomy. Sustainability Stora Enso’s Annual Report 2019 includes our strategic, sustainability and financial performance, and governance. Financials Stora Enso Annual Report 2019 Governance Contents Strategy Annual Report 2019 Strategy Strategy Sustainability Financials Governance Part of Stora Enso’s Annual Report 2019 Part of Stora Enso’s Annual Report 2019 Part of Stora Enso’s Annual Report 2019 Part of Stora Enso’s Annual Report 2019 Sustainability Financials Governance Strategy Sustainability Financials Governance Sustainability This is Stora Enso ................................................2 Governance ..........................................................4 Stora Enso in 2019 ...............................................2 Corporate Governance in Stora Enso 2019 .....2 Strategy, governance, and stakeholders ..............5 Shareholders’ meetings ........................................2 Stora Enso in 2019 ...............................................5 Report of the Board of Directors ......................3 Our targets .............................................................9 Board of Directors (Board) ....................................3 CEO’s overview....................................................7 Adopting the SDGs .............................................. 10 Consolidated financial statements ................21 Board committees .................................................7 How we create value ......................................... 10 Human rights ....................................................... 12 Notes to the consolidated Management of the Company ..............................8 financial statements .........................................26 Internal control and risk management Transformation .................................................. 11 Social agenda .................................................... 16 related to financial reporting ............................... 10 Employees and wider workforce......................... 17 Parent company Stora Enso Oyj Divisions .............................................................22 Community ..........................................................22 financial statements .........................................75 Remuneration Statement ................................ 11 Consumer Board .................................................23 Business ethics ...................................................27 Decision-making procedure ............................... 11 Packaging Solutions............................................28 Notes to the parent company Main principles of remuneration ......................... 11 Financials Environmental agenda .....................................31 Stora Enso Oyj financial statements ..............77 Biomaterials .........................................................33 Remuneration Report 2019 ................................. 13 Wood Products....................................................38 Materials, water, and energy ...............................32 Signatures for the financial statements ........85 Paper....................................................................43 Carbon dioxide ....................................................42 Members of the Board of Directors ................ 15 Auditor’s report .................................................86 Forests, plantations, and land use ......................48 Members of the Group Leadership Team ...... 17 Group Leadership Team...................................48 Stora Enso in capital markets .........................89 Economic agenda .............................................55 Appendix 1.......................................................... 19 Customers ...........................................................56 Stora Enso as a taxpayer..................................95 Suppliers ..............................................................60 Capacities by mill in 2020 .................................97 Investors ..............................................................64 Information for shareholders ........................100 External recognition ............................................66 Data and assurance ..........................................67 Print optimised Reporting scope ..................................................68 A4 Data by production unit .......................................69 Governance Auditor’s assurance report..................................72 Download printable PDF of Stora Enso’s Annual Report 2019 The GRI index is available at storaenso.com/gri2019 Strategy Annual Report 2019 Strategy Stora Enso supports customers Part of Stora Enso’s Annual Report 2019 to meet consumers’ demand for sustainable products based on renewable materials. Our solutions offer low-carbon alternatives to products based Sustainability on finite resources. Financials Governance Contents Strategy Annual Report 2019 Our renewable products provide a sustainable alternative to fossil-based materials. Sustainability This is Stora Enso ............................... 2 Stora Enso in 2019 .............................. 5 CEO’s overview................................... 7 Financials How we create value .........................10 Transformation ..................................11 Divisions ............................................ 22 Consumer Board ................................ 23 Packaging Solutions........................... 28 Biomaterials ........................................ 33 Wood Products................................... 38 Paper................................................... 43 Group Leadership Team.................. 48 Print optimised A4 Download printable PDF of Governance Stora Enso’s Annual Report 2019 Annual Report 2019 This is Strategy Stora Enso Strategy Part of the bioeconomy, Stora Enso is a leading This is Stora Enso global provider of renewable solutions in packaging, biomaterials, wooden construction, and paper. Stora Enso in 2019 We employ some 26 000 people in more than Sustainability CEO’s overview 30 countries and our shares are listed on the Helsinki (STEAV, STERV) and Stockholm (STE A, How we create value STE R) stock exchanges. Transformation Our fiber-based materials are renewable, recyclable, Divisions and fossil-free. Our solutions offer low-carbon Group Leadership Team alternatives to products based on finite resources. We believe that everything that is made from fossil-based materials today can be made from a tree tomorrow. Financials Our products respond to the needs of eco-conscious consumers and producers looking for innovative alternatives to plastic. PureFiber™, a new selection of formed fiber products can be used for single-use food packaging, and DuraSense™ biocomposites for example in cutlery. We are the renewable Governance Our raw material is Our products Our renewable products renewable, recyclable replace fossilcontribute to a circular materials company and fossil-free. based materials. bioeconomy. 3 Divisions in brief Stora Enso 2019: Strategy – This is Stora Enso Strategy Annual Report 2019 Strategy This is Stora Enso Stora Enso in 2019 Sustainability CEO’s overview How we create value Transformation Consumer Board Packaging Solutions Biomaterials Wood Products Paper The ambition of the Consumer Board The Packaging Solutions division The Biomaterials division offers The Wood Products division is a leading Stora Enso is the second largest paper Divisions division is to be the global leader in provides fiber-based board materials a wide variety of pulp grades to meet provider of innovative wood-based producer in Europe with an established high-quality virgin fiber cartonboard. and corrugated packaging products the demands of paper, board, tissue, solutions. The product range covers customer base and a wide product Group Leadership Team We aim to be the preferred partner and services that are designed for textile and hygiene product producers. applications for construction, portfolio for print and office use. of customers and brand owners in a wide array of applications. Our We maximise the business potential of the window and door industry, as well Customers benefit from Stora Enso’s premium end-use packaging and renewable high-end packaging the side streams of our processes, such as for the packaging and decoration broad selection of papers made from graphical segments. Our wide board solutions serve leading converters, as tall oil and turpentine from biomass. industries. Biocomposites offer recycled and virgin fiber as well as our and barrier coating selection is suitable brand owners and retailers – including Based on our strong innovation plastic replacement opportunities valuable industry experience, knowfor consumer packaging for liquid, food, those in e-commerce that are looking to approach, all fractions of biomass, in e.g. consumer goods, industrial how and customer support. pharmaceutical and luxury goods. optimise performance, drive innovation like lignin and sugars, hold substantial components, cosmetics and packaging. and improve their sustainability. potential for use in various applications. Pellets provide a sustainable solution for heating. The offering includes Financials service concepts such as Building Solutions and e-business. Our solutions meet strict requirements regarding safety, quality, design and sustainability. Share of Share of Share of Share of Share of Group sales Group sales Group sales Group sales Group sales 25% 12% 15%* 16% 28% Share of Group Share of Group Share of Group Share of Group Share of Group operational EBIT operational EBIT operational EBIT operational EBIT operational EBIT 26% 14% 24% 11% 22% Governance * of which internal sales 19% * of which internal sales 19% As of 1 January 2020, Stora Enso merged its containerboard business previously in the Packaging Solutions division with the Consumer Board division, creating a new Packaging Materials division. The remaining business in Packaging Solutions together with the recently created Formed Fiber unit, will constitute a more focused Packaging Solutions division. The Group also established a new Forest division. Divisions in 2020: Packaging Materials, Packaging Solutions, Biomaterials, Wood Products, Forest, Paper 4 Serving markets Stora Enso 2019: Strategy – This is Stora Enso Strategy Sales Sales by destination Annual Report 2019 EUR 10.1 billion around the world Countries Employees Europe 73% Stora Enso operates worldwide and focuses on utilising expertise Strategy in renewable materials and creating value in packaging, pulp, paper and wood. We combine global resources with local presence, 30 26 000 service and sustainability. This is Stora Enso Asia Paciﬁc 17% North America 3% Stora Enso in 2019 Personnel by country1 We have production in 17 countries South America 2% Other 5% Sustainability CEO’s overview Other countries 1% Brazil and Uruguay 3% How we create value Other Europe 16% Finland 25% Sales by origin Transformation Russia 4% Divisions Germany 4% Poland 8% Group Leadership Team China 19% Sweden 20% Europe 88% 1Including 50% of the employees at Veracel in Brazil and Montes del Plata in Uruguay. South America Financials China 6% Latin America is important for Brazil and Uruguay 6% Stora Enso’s strategy of obtaining lowcost pulp from tree plantations. In Brazil, we own 50% of Veracel Celulose pulp mill, with Suzano. Our share of Europe the eucalyptus pulp is mostly used in Stora Enso’s head office is in Helsinki, Purchases by region our paper and board mills. Veracel also Finland. Most of the group’s sales and owns land, around half of which is former operations take place in Europe, where pasture land planted with eucalyptus. North America Asia we are a leading producer of packaging The other half is dedicated to protecting In the United States, Stora Enso has The demand for Stora Enso’s products, board and solutions, pulp, wooden local biodiversity by restoring the natural a pilot facility in Danville, Virginia, to especially consumer board, is growing products and paper. Atlantic rainforest. develop technologies for the conversion fast in China. Our consumer board mill Stora Enso has three research The Montes del Plata pulp mill in of biomass into highly refined in Beihai, in the Guangxi region, serves centres, in Imatra (Finland), Karlstad Europe 88% Uruguay is a joint operation between sugars and lignin. In Raceland, the markets with virgin fiber-based (Sweden) and Mönchengladbach Stora Enso and Arauco. Stora Enso’s Louisiana, there is a demonstration board. In Guangxi our operations also (Germany), and two innovation centres, share is sold entirely as market pulp, plant for the production of xylose. include eucalyptus plantations. In in Stockholm and Helsinki. In Northern Governance mainly in Europe and Asia. Montes del These new technologies will enable addition, Stora Enso has four packaging Europe, we source most of our main Plata’s tree plantations are also utilised the development of sustainable plants in China. We divested our stake raw material – wood – from our own as pasture by local farmers through land replacements for fossil-based materials in the Dawang paper mill in 2019 and no forests in Sweden, our forest associate Asia Paciﬁc 7% rental schemes. in various industries. longer have paper production in China. Tornator and private forest owners. South America 4% 5 Stora Enso Stora Enso 2019: Strategy – Stora Enso in 2019 Strategy Annual Report 2019 in 2019 Strategy This is Stora Enso Stora Enso in 2019 Sustainability CEO’s overview How we create value Transformation Divisions Group Leadership Team Financials Stora Enso is Operational ROCE Average Sales and operational EBIT 9.8% personnel EUR million % taking the lead in 12 000 18 the bioeconomy. 10 000 15 8 000 12 6 000 9 72% 4 000 6 Consumer Board 16% 2 000 3 Packaging Solutions 30% Governance Biomaterials 7% 0 0 Wood Products 15% 2016 2017 2018 2019 of sales from Paper 19% Sales, EUR million growth businesses Other 13% Operational EBIT, % 6 Highlights of 2019 Stora Enso 2019: Strategy – Stora Enso in 2019 Strategy Annual Report 2019 Strong cash flow Strategy Changes in divisions 2020 To increase transparency, Stora Enso up 45% from 2018 established a Forest division and started reporting it separately. Stora Enso also This is Stora Enso merged its containerboard business Stora Enso in 2019 in the Packaging Solutions division Combatting global warming −25% with the Consumer Board division, Sustainability CEO’s overview Bergvik Skog creating a new Packaging Materials restructuring finalised How we create value division. The remaining business in The restructuring of Bergvik Skog, Packaging Solutions together with Transformation a Swedish forest holding company, lower CO2e in 2019 than the 2010 Stora Enso’s recently created Formed was finalised. Stora Enso’s forest base-year level Divisions Fiber unit, constitutes a more focused holdings in Sweden increased to 1.4 million hectares, of which Packaging Solutions division. 1.14 million hectares is productive Group Leadership Team forest land. Prior to the transaction, Stora Enso’s indirect share of Bergvik Skog’s productive forest Ensuring the land was 936 thousand hectares. sustainability of wood Annica Bresky new President and CEO Annica Bresky became the new President and CEO of Stora Enso on 1 December 2019. Previously, she was Head of Stora Enso’s Consumer Board division. She replaces 98% of the lands Stora Enso owns or manages Financials covered by forest certification schemes Karl-Henrik Sundström, who left his position of CEO at the end of November 2019. Oulu Mill to produce packaging materials Stora Enso invests approximately EUR 350 million to convert the Oulu paper mill in Finland to produce kraftliner for packing. The conversion will enable us to further improve our position in the growing packaging business. New production unit for CLT The typical end use for kraftliner is packaging that requires Governance high strength, quality and purity, such as for food, as well Stora Enso inaugurated its third as heavy-duty packaging. Production is expected to start production unit for cross-laminated by the end of 2020. After the conversion, Stora Enso will no timber (CLT) at Gruvön sawmill in longer manufacture woodfree coated papers. Sweden in May 2019. 7 Stora Enso 2019: Strategy – CEO’s overview Strategy Annual Report 2019 Strategy This is Stora Enso The future grows Stora Enso in 2019 in the forest Sustainability CEO’s overview For our customers, leaders and society, the need for How we create value a shift towards a sustainable bioeconomy with positive climate impact is more apparent than ever. Awareness Transformation among companies and consumers alike has increased substantially, as well as discussions among policy makers Divisions and industries to find solutions supporting change. Group Leadership Team Stora Enso is in a unique position to lead a transition from a linear to a circular economy, from dependency on finite or fossil-based materials towards materials and solutions that are renewable, recyclable and with low or zero carbon footprint. Our renewable materials naturally form a circle of their own. We harvest trees and replant in a continuous cycle where trees grow back and the forests are constantly renewed. Growing trees absorb carbon dioxide. Wood and fiber-based products act as carbon storage and can easily Financials be recycled. Sustainability and innovation at the core We continue to build a strong portfolio, helping our customers to be more competitive and sustainable – for today and tomorrow. Our promise to society and our foundation for innovation is “Everything that is made from fossil-based materials today can be made from a tree tomorrow.” This ambition provides good opportunities for growth, but we cannot do it alone. The products and solutions of the future require collaboration with partners outside of our company and transformation across the value chain. Our strong ecosystem of customers, suppliers, research institutions and start-ups enable our future growth and is key to bring new solutions to the market. Stora Enso supports all 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) defined by the United Nations and we have identified the three strategic goals where we contribute most: Responsible Consumption Governance and Production, Climate Action and Life on Land. We have set tough science-based targets regarding the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and will continue our drive to improve energy efficiency and reduce our use of fossil fuels. 8 Stora Enso 2019: Strategy – CEO’s overview Strategy Operational ROCE Annual Report 2019 % 16 14 12 10 Strategy 8 6 2016 2017 2018 2019 This is Stora Enso Operational ROCE, % Target >13% Stora Enso in 2019 Sustainability CEO’s overview Net debt to operational EBITDA How we create value 4.0 Transformation 3.0 Divisions Stora Enso is in a unique position 2.0 Group Leadership Team 1.0 to lead a transition from a linear 0.0 2016 2017 2018 2019 to a circular economy. Net debt to operational EBITDA Target <2.0 Financials Through our Sustainability Agenda we emphasise social, While megatrends and our customers’ needs support our paper mill into packaging materials. This is another action that shows environmental and economic responsibility in our own operations strategic direction, Stora Enso is also affected by today’s political our determination to grow in the packaging sector and reduce our and throughout our value chain. We are committed to the UN Global and economic instability. To mitigate these effects, we implemented exposure in the declining paper business. Other milestones of the year Compact’s ten principles and the UN’s Guiding Principles on Business a profit protection programme during 2019 and will continue this into include the finalisation of the cross-laminated timber investment at and Human Rights. Our Community Investment strategy is intended to 2021. We have also strengthened our cash flow management and Gruvön sawmill as demand is increasing for building in wood instead promote resilient communities close to the sources of our fiber, mills constantly work to improve our balance sheet. of concrete and steel. The conversion of Enocell Mill into dissolving and other units as well as being an attractive and socially responsible pulp, pulp that can be used for textile applications, is another example employer. You can read more about our agenda and progress in Investments for the future where we respond to the global megatrend to replace materials from Stora Enso’s Sustainability 2019 report. 100% of our wood comes from sustainable sources where biodiversity finite sources with more sustainable alternatives. In 2019, 72% of sales and 78% of operational EBIT came from our values are secured. With the acquisition of forests from Bergvik We are investing for the future to strengthen our own capabilities to growth businesses of packaging, wood products and biomaterials. Skog in Sweden, we became one of the largest private owners of innovate and bring new products and solutions to the market. During Over 7% of our sales came from new products and services. biological assets in the world. We issued our first Green Bonds in 2019, we introduced formed fiber products to replace, for example, Governance Our operational EBIT was affected by lower prices for our products. February 2019, and the proceeds were solely used for financing plastic plates and bowls in food service. We also started building I am not pleased with our profitability levels, but we have focused on the acquisition. Since our forest assets represent a sizeable part of a pilot facility for bio-based carbon used in energy storage systems. areas we can influence. I am very satisfied that we delivered a record our capital, we formed a new Forest division on 1 January this year. Our co-operation with the start-up community resulted in the launch high cash flow, despite the challenging market conditions. One of our biggest decisions during 2019 was to convert the Oulu of a renewable and biodegradable straw to combat the global problem 9 Stora Enso 2019: Strategy – CEO’s overview Strategy of plastic waste. We have introduced a board for drinking cups and Annual Report 2019 ice cream packaging without a plastic layer and designed for easy recycling and full fiber recovery. Our work in digitalisation supports us to optimise current business and enabling new business models. Our focus is on digital customer experience, smart operations, transparent supply chains, robotic process automation and intelligent processes. The circularity of our products Strategy Fibers can be recycled 5−7 times, sometimes over 20 times, depending on the end use. We are taking more steps to develop circular solutions by enabling efficient recycling and reducing carbon This is Stora Enso footprint across our own and our partners’ operations. We are researching and testing how our products perform in different kinds of Stora Enso in 2019 recycling systems, analysing their lifecycles to reduce carbon footprint Sustainability or improve material efficiency and looking closely at ways to promote CEO’s overview recycling and reduce waste. Among our circular initiatives, we take back used paper cups How we create value and give them second life as magazine paper at Langerbrugge Mill in Belgium. We use recycled paper for corrugated board production Transformation at Ostrołeka Mill in Poland as well as operate a biogas plant to turn wastewater effluent into renewable energy at Nymölla Mill in Sweden. Divisions You can find more examples of our new projects and solutions later in this report. Group Leadership Team Our people drive the change Our values are “Lead” and “Do What’s Right” and our greatest assets are our people and our ecosystems of customers, partners and suppliers. Taking the lead requires courage, a mindset of openness to change and new ways of solving society’s challenges. We focus on leadership, engagement and clear communications to empower our committed and talented people and we recognise the importance of inclusion, diversity and equality as prerequisites for a culture Over 7% of sales Dividend proposal per share Earnings per share EUR 0.50 EUR 1.12 Financials characterised by innovation and sustainability. At the end of 2019, we took further steps to bolster our ability to came from new drive innovation and sustainability with a common agenda. The new products and services. Packaging Materials division will provide an even stronger offering for customers utilising virgin and recycled board material. For Packaging Solutions, we are increasing our focus on growing new services and renewable packaging solutions as well as innovation collaborations throughout the value chain. Reaching key financial targets I’m very proud of leading this fantastic company. We are well equipped to deliver on our strategy and take the challenge of creating EUR million 2019 2018 2017 Target Performance against target a world based on renewable materials. I’d also like to thank Karl-Henrik Payout ratio1, % 45% 39% 52% See below2 Sundström, our previous CEO, for all his achievements in Stora Enso. Operational ROCE, % 9.8% 15.5% 11.9% >13% I look forward to continuing our exciting transformation journey. Net debt/equity ratio 0.43 0.31 0.38 <0.60 Net sales growth3, % -3.0% 5.9% 8.5% Net debt/last 12 months’ operational EBITDA 2.1 1.1 1.4 <2.0 Governance Fixed costs/sales 24.3% 23.6% 25.1% <20% 1 Dividend per share / EPS. Annica Bresky 2 To distribute 50% of EPS over the cycle. Achieved President and CEO 3 Excluding the paper business. Not achieved 10 How we create value as a renewable materials company Stora Enso 2019: Strategy – How we create value Strategy Annual Report 2019 Key inputs Key outputs Key impacts • Investments in Human Rights • Development areas mapped against • Respect for Human Rights in all operations Due Diligence programme the highest priority human rights during 2019 Strategy • 26 000 direct employees in more • Personnel turnover 15.0% • EUR 1 331 million salaries and benefits Social than 30 countries • 7.0 TRI rate • Impacts of injuries, illness, and well-being • OHS and well-being • Illness related absenteeism 3.2% • Engaged and motivated employees and This is Stora Enso • Employee and leadership development • 30 hours of training per employee a capable organisation • Partnerships with communities and universities • Leadership index 83/100 • EUR 2 032 million value through taxes borne • EUR 2.7 million voluntary • 441 voluntary community investment projects and collected Stora Enso in 2019 community investments • Code of Conduct index 84/100 • Value creation with local communities • Business ethics and compliance • Value through ethical operations in the market place Sustainability CEO’s overview How we create value Transformation Divisions • 2.35 million hectares of lands under • 10.5 million tonnes of board, market pulp, and paper • Total climate benefit 12 million tonnes of CO2e Environmental Group Leadership Team ownership or management • 4.9 million m3 of wood products with our renewable products and forest carbon sinks • 37.1 million m3 of wood used • Certification coverage 98% for lands in wood production • Environmental impacts of operations and along • EUR 54 million environmental investments and harvesting and 75% sourced wood the value chain • 2.2 million tonnes of Paper for Recycling (PfR) • 25% utilisation rate for Paper for Recycling • Forests work as carbon sinks and provide • 2.3 million tonnes of pigments, fillers Our fiber-based • 98% utilisation rate for process residuals and waste ecosystem services and other chemicals • 96% of water withdrawal returned back to the environment incl. • 599 million m3 water withdrawal materials 298 million m3 process water discharges • 41.8 TWh fuels of which 82% biomass • 7.0 TWh purchased electricity are renewable • 3.04 million tonnes fossil CO2e emissions from generated and purchased energy and recyclable. • 1.2 TWh externally delivered electricity/heat/steam Financials CO2 Our solutions provide low-carbon alternatives to products based on finite resources. • EUR 10 632 million capital employed • Customer satisfaction: Net Promoter Score 56% • EUR 10.1 billion sales of products and services Economic • EUR 141 million R&D investments • 65 patent applications and over 430 patents granted • 7% of sales from new products • Over 20 000 suppliers and 23 500 private • 96% of supplier spend covered by Supplier Code of Conduct • EUR 6.9 billion paid to suppliers forest owners • 62 third-party supplier audits • EUR 656 million capital expenditure • 112 000 shareholders • EUR 10.3 billion market capitalisation • EUR 394 million dividends for shareholders • EUR 154 million interests for creditors NPS Governance Trees absorb CO 2 and store carbon together with wood-based products, which can then be recycled as raw material or used for energy generation. Read more in Financials 2019 and Sustainability 2019. Annual Report 2019 Renewable Our purpose: Strategy materials Do good for people and the planet. take us to Strategy Replace fossil-based materials with This is Stora Enso renewable solutions. Stora Enso in 2019 a fossil-free Our values: Sustainability CEO’s overview Lead. How we create value Transformation future Do What’s Right. Divisions At Stora Enso we are continuing our journey as a global Group Leadership Team growth company, basing our products and services on renewable materials and supporting our customers in meeting consumer demand for eco-friendly solutions. Our renewable products contribute to a greener planet in a number of ways: they are renewable, recyclable and store carbon. We continuously aim to increase the Financials sustainability of our production and use our raw material as efficiently as possible, and we can trace every tree back to its origin. Governance 12 The drive for Stora Enso 2019: Strategy – Transformation Strategy Carbon storage More people and more Annual Report 2019 Renewable materials consumption mean that the a sustainable future Recyclability planet’s resources are being Biodegradability stretched even further. in the bioeconomy Global warming: Carbon neutrality will create a EUR 6 000 billion market for smart green solutions by 2050. Source: Sitra Megatrends Strategy To combat global warming, we need to leave a fossil-based Growing middle class: world behind. Stora Enso can help to address this by taking re a leading role in the bioeconomy, replacing fossil-based f utu By 2030, 60 percent of the world’s ble population will be middle class, This is Stora Enso materials with renewable solutions and enabling the world n ewa earning USD 10–100 a day. r e to a Source: UN Development Programme to transition from high consumption to a sustainable future. Stora Enso in 2019 rld wo fo s s il Eco-awareness: Sustainability As many as 70 percent of CEO’s overview ma Fro consumers state that they have purchased an environmentally friendly product, even if it How we create value was more expensive. A total of 66 percent have avoided Transformation CO2 a particular product or brand for environmental reasons. Source: Millward Brown for Divisions Carbon emissions TetraPak – Environment Research Fossil materials Finite resources Changing lifestyles: Group Leadership Team China’s demand for packaged Waste accumulation food will continue to grow by about 8 percent a year until 2024. Source: Research and Markets – Packaged Food Markets in China Urbanisation: Close to 70 percent of the world’s population are expected to live in urban areas by 2050. With pressure on infrastructure Financials and resources, urbanisation is creating significant opportunities By replacing fossil-based materials with our renewable solutions, we help drive the transition from a world that consumes fossil fuels to a sustainable future based on the bioeconomy. for more sustainable living. Source: Sitra Megatrends The global megatrends continue to affect industries In the packaging industry in the European Union, and paper, among other products, in Europe and Growing population: The global population is expected and businesses around the world. The signposts it is already possible to replace about 25 percent other parts of the world. We have a strong position to reach 9 billion by 2050, leading are quite clear, pointing to an acute need for raw of fossil-based materials with existing packaging in containerboard in Europe, and we are first in to greater resource shortage. materials that are renewable, recyclable and technologies for renewable materials. EU legislation Europe and fourth in the world in supplying wooden By 2030, the global population of people aged 65 and older will fossil-free. This is a huge advantage for Stora Enso. on single-use plastics is driving up demand for construction material. Overall, four of our divisions double to one billion. The promise that steers our innovation agenda is: fiber-based materials. With an expanding market are growing while the Paper division is focused on Sources: Sitra Megatrends; National Institute on Aging “Everything that is made from fossil-based materials for batteries, it is possible to replace graphite with cash generation. today can be made from a tree tomorrow.” a lignin-based component. Wooden buildings reduce Replacing plastics with renewable materials is Digitalisation: From our customers’ perspective, the trends the need for concrete and steel. The apparel industry a gradual process and will not happen overnight, Retail e-commerce sales are influence their choice of materials, utilisation of is looking for raw material alternatives to petroleumbut we are ambitious. We cannot always completely projected to increase to over resources, operations, supply chain and logistics, based artificial fibers and to cotton, which requires eliminate use of plastic but we can reduce it. USD 4 000 billion, making up 14.6 percent of total retail spending. in order for them to respond to the increasing large amounts of water and arable land. This makes Biocomposites are a good example. They have Governance Source: eMarketer consumer demand for reduced carbon footprint viscose an attractive alternative, as it comes from the same performance, flexibility and strength as and eco-friendly products. renewable wood pulp. plastic but are partly made from renewable materials. Increasing demand for raw Together, we can all make a difference. Stora Enso has a strong portfolio. We are a market It is better to use biocomposites than to use material that is renewable, Many developments are already underway. leader in liquid packaging, food service board, fluff plastic alone. recyclable and fossil-free 13 Making our mark as the Stora Enso 2019: Strategy – Transformation Strategy Annual Report 2019 renewable materials company Our strategy for growth is based on customer insights and innovation, supported by structured processes and motivated employees, and underlined and encircled by sustainability. We will continue to invest in attractive segments and concentrate on Strategy offering innovative products and services to our customers. This is Stora Enso Stora Enso in 2019 In 2019 Long-term target over 7% 15% Sustainability CEO’s overview How we create value Transformation of our sales came from of our sales is expected to come Divisions new products and services. from new products and services. Group Leadership Team Financials Sales by business Operational EBIT by business -3% 4% -3% 2% Consumer Board 21% 25% Packaging Solutions1 22% 26% 35% Biomaterials 28% Wood Products 2006 12% 30% 2019 72% 2006 38% 2019 78% Paper2 Other and eliminations 11% 12% 62% 14% from growth businesses 70% 6% 16% 15% 24% In 2006 in Consumer Board Governance 1 2 In 2006 includes merchants Stora Enso is transforming from a traditional paper and board producer to a renewable materials growth company. The capital expenditure for 2012–2019 amounted to 6.1 billion, of which 3.5 billion was strategic capex. As part of the transformation, Stora Enso has closed 5.0 million tonnes of capacity since 2006. 14 An ecosystem Innovation projects with high Stora Enso 2019: Strategy – Transformation potential impact to transformation Strategy Annual Report 2019 for collaboration and innovation Bio-barriers, Native and Intelligent MFC films modified MFC packaging Strategy Through innovation, based on customer insights, Stora Enso works to develop products and services, manage raw materials, build partnerships and collaboration, shape business models, improve value chain and utilise This is Stora Enso resources in the best possible manner. We do this to offer our customers more value than the competition. Stora Enso in 2019 Sustainability CEO’s overview Specialty papers, nonwovens, Sophisticated During 2019 we had Liquid and food packaging personal and home care, barrier materials applications to brand owners and supply chains How we create value Transformation Divisions Group Leadership Team 1148 26 65 ideas campaigns patents filed Lignin for phenol replacement Carbon fiber Bio-based carbons for energy storage Addressing broader markets and different areas in the bioeconomy, our focus on innovation has resulted in a number of recent launches or pilots, including formed fiber, lignin, biocomposites, intelligent packaging and micro-fibrillated cellulose (MFC). The latter, when used in packages, adds strength, reduces weight and can be used as a renewable barrier material. We are working with Financials start-ups such as TRÄ Group, Sulapac and TreeToTextile. Reduction of fossil Sports and leisure, wind energy, Anode material for batteries, activated carbon for double raw materials in adhesives automotive, aviation layer capacitors Dissolving pulp to novel cellulose Bio-based plastics materials Biocomposites Governance Replacement of Chemical intermediates Textiles and nonwovens fossil-based plastics in composites 15 Cases Stora Enso 2019: Strategy – Transformation Strategy Annual Report 2019 New 2019 Strategy Next generation eco-products designed for purpose This is Stora Enso In 2019, Stora Enso announced an investment of EUR 5 million to build a new The many applications production line and related infrastructure to manufacture formed fiber products Stora Enso in 2019 of lignin: bio-asphalt at Hylte Mill in Sweden. Formed fiber products are manufactured by pressing Sustainability various wood-based pulps into a three-dimensional shape in a moulding CEO’s overview Recently, Lineo™ by Stora Enso machine. This enables a broad range of applications, including plastic-free has proven its excellence in cups, bowls and plates. How we create value replacing a fossil-based binder, Stora Enso entered into a strategic collaboration with HS Manufacturing bitumen, in asphalt. Stora Enso’s Group (HSMG), a producer of plant-based barrier coatings, to develop sustainable Transformation customer H4A (Holding de Vier barriers for formed fiber products. Stora Enso will apply the PROTĒAN™ barrier Ambachten) has successfully technology to its renewable and recyclable PureFiber™ by Stora Enso product Divisions been using Lineo™ in Central offering. This enables the manufacture of single-use products that are renewable, Europe in several asphalt recyclable, biodegradable and plastic-free. The PROTĒAN™ barrier coating Group Leadership Team projects – from bike lanes to can be applied to produce a wide range of high-quality cellulose-based paper heavy load transportation roads. products, including single-use food service items. Read more about formed fiber New 360° 2019 Sustainable automated new retail solutions Financials Stora Enso and the digital transformation company Atos are bringing Awarded 5G technology new automated retail solutions and services to the market. The new solution in mill maintenance service is based on the concept of “Intelligent Cabinets”, which are RFID (Radio Frequency Identification) enabled e-kiosks designed for Stora Enso has been one on-the-go purchasing. To buy a product from the intelligent cabinets, of the first companies in the consumer only needs a compatible payment app or payment card. the industry to implement 5G When the cabinet door is closed, the consumer is charged via the app for technology to enable HD 360° the items taken out. camera solutions in production. The partnership will combine Stora Enso’s technologies with This solution was recognised the service delivery experience and methodology of Atos. The “new in the Industry of Things World retail solution” by Stora Enso merges in-store and online shopping and Awards 2019. uses sustainable RFID tags to track and trace stored items. These tags Governance are paper-based, providing a plastic-free and recyclable solution for packaging authentication. Read more about New Retail Solution by Stora Enso 16 Building Stora Enso 2019: Strategy – Transformation Strategy Annual Report 2019 Valuable insights from competencies in global employee survey Stora Enso conducts an annual global survey (Your leadership, sales, Voice) of all employees. In 2019, the survey was innovation and conducted for the eighth time and had a response Strategy rate of 86% (88%). The data analytics survey follows progress in areas that impact our ability This is Stora Enso to deliver on our strategic agenda, steering activities Stora Enso in 2019 Success in delivering sustainable profitable growth and priorities. It also supports depends greatly on our people and culture. Leadership is Sustainability managers and teams as CEO’s overview a key factor in strengthening Stora Enso’s position as the they continuously improve renewable materials company. We continuously invest in their work methods. In 2019, How we create value the development of our leaders through programmes such the results remained at a high as Lead Through People, which targets all managers in the level in the leadership index Transformation organisation. Since 2015, approximately 3 200 managers and engagement index. After many consecutive years of have participated in this programme. Divisions positive development there was a slight downturn on Group Leadership Team Our Commercial Excellence Programme focuses on developing other indices compared to capabilities in sales and commercial acumen. We conducted the previous year’s results. a common Sales Academy programme for more than 300 sales leaders, front-line sales persons and business developers during 2017–2019. In total, more than 400 people have gone through the training. In addition to sales organisation, people from other areas as developing new business opportunities with start-ups. In 2019, with experience of the business and its operations, we will be able to such as supply chain, product management, marketing, sourcing and the programme focused specifically on solutions in the area of bring relevant data analytics insights to the business and support our logistics, customer service, human resources, and sustainability have the circular economy. The selected six start-ups for the programme company transformation agenda. participated in the programme. Other outcomes from the Commercial teamed up with Stora Enso participants to co-create and innovate for To further promote new talent and diverse perspectives, Financials Excellence Programme are harmonised sales processes and common new solutions with renewable materials as the foundation. Stora Enso runs the GROW Global Trainee Programme in which systems such as Customer Relationship Management. Stora Enso aims at further strengthening its operational graduates are initiated into the Stora Enso organisation globally during Combining work with start-up companies and executive training, competitiveness by making data analytics an integral part of its their first 16 months of employment. In 2019 we welcomed 24 new the Stora Enso Accelerator programme aims at further strengthening business operations. In 2019, a training programme was conducted GROW trainees to the programme. The GROW 2019 programme the capabilities required for our transformation. The focus has for employees working in operations, mainly within production and focuses on strengthening our cabapilities in customer insights and been placed on deepening competencies and skills in innovation, maintenance, with focus on developing competencies and skills operational efficiency, and it supports in strengthening our position entrepreneurship, customer insight and change management as well in data analytics. By training our own employees in data analytics, as the renewable materials company. Leadership Engagement Employee Net Promoter Score 85 85 30 25 80 80 20 75 75 15 10 70 70 5 Governance 65 65 0 2016 2017 2018 2019 2016 2017 2018 2019 2016 2017 2018 2019 Leadership Index is measured annually in Stora Enso’s Your Voice employee survey, Employee Engagement Index is measured annually in Stora Enso’s Your Voice employee Employee Net Promoter Score is measured annually in Stora Enso’s Your Voice and consists of numerical answers to 16 questions related to the respondent’s view survey, and consists of numerical answers to seven questions related to engagement employee survey, and consists of one question related to the likelihood of of the direct manager. indicators including, but not limited to motivation, pride and goal orientation. recommending Stora Enso as a workplace to a friend. A positive score indicates that there are more promoters than detractors, while a negative score indicates the opposite. 17 A circular view for a better and brighter world Stora Enso 2019: Strategy – Transformation Strategy Annual Report 2019 A leader in the bioeconomy, Stora Enso also wants to contribute to a circular economy where resources are kept in use for as long as possible, reusing and finally recovering materials for other purposes. Altogether, the circular bioeconomy is a good formula for keeping the planet healthier. The circular economy requires partnerships across the value chain Circular design Zero waste Strategy Stora Enso, along with other 1 2 4 members of CEPI, the European association representing This is Stora Enso Circular the forest fiber and paper industry, products has joined forces with companies Stora Enso in 2019 across the value chain to drive Sustainability the recycling of fiber-based CEO’s overview packaging. This collaboration in circular design brings about How we create value positive change in the circular economy. The initiative, Transformation 4evergreen, aims to increase Renewable New business awareness of innovation in fiberDivisions raw from recycled based packaging materials and recycling, and to set guidelines Group Leadership Team materials products for product design that enable circularity and the secondary use of fibers. It also aims to support the development of optimised collection systems as well as critical recycling infrastructures and technologies adapted for fiber-based packaging. Wood fibers lend themselves Financials to the circular bioeconomy very 5 3 well. They are renewable, fossilfree and can be recycled at least Biodegradability Extend value with recycling and reuse 5–7 times. 1 Circular design of products and materials for as and business models is all about We are testing how our products led by the Ellen MacArthur out of by-products through Circular design refers long as possible through product collaboration. We are forming perform in different kinds of Foundation in collaboration innovation and collaboration. to designing for the whole design, innovation and recycling. partnerships to build circular recycling systems, analysing with the UN Environment system and all stages of value chains for the future. lifecycles in terms of their Programme. 5 Biodegradability the product lifecycle instead of 2 New business from carbon footprint, and looking When a material or product just designing the product. It circular products 3 Extend value with closely at directives regarding 4 Zero waste has reached the end of its life, considers the materials used, and solutions reuse and recycling recycling and waste. This work As the renewable materials we promote recycling and Governance the manufacturing process, In the circular bioeconomy, To this end, we are collaborating is supported by joining different company, we work to minimise energy recovery to create further the distribution and the potential products are bio-based. with customers and partners alliances and commitments, waste and resource use overall. value. At the end of the life for reuse, refurbishment, They are also shared, reused, to develop circular solutions to such as CEPI’s 4evergreen In our own operations, we cycle, many of our products are remanufacturing or recycling. remanufactured and finally replace plastics and cut down initiative and the New Plastics focus on optimising our use of biodegradable or can be burned Our aim is to maintain the value recycled. Creating new products on waste along the supply chain. Economy Global Commitment, resources and on creating value for energy. 18 Substituting materials Stora Enso 2019: Strategy – Transformation Strategy Annual Report 2019 from finite resources is our key competitive Our business is a net Strategy advantage contributor to prevent This is Stora Enso global warming. Our total climate benefit Stora Enso in 2019 12 Mt CO 2 Sustainability CEO’s overview Our products can substitute Fiber-based products have a lower carbon footprint fossil-based products, saving How we create value Transformation 20 Mt CO 2 Subsititute plastic trays Substitute plastic fish boxes Substitute plastic PET bottles Divisions Trayforma paperboard trays EcoFishBox by Stora Enso for ready-meal packaging offers up to 30% lower carbon Group Leadership Team offer up to 64% lower carbon footprint than a traditional footprint than plastic trays. polystyrene fish box. Financials Our forests are carbon neutral and absorb 3 Mt CO 2 Resource efficient value chain, emissions 11 Mt CO 2 Best climate benefit comes from combining forest-based products and sustainable forestry with a resource efficient value chain. Read more about the calculation method. If all plastic trays in Germany Switching to EcoFishBox In Europe, a fiber-based As a company, Stora Enso contributes to a better climate. Trees in our sustainably were replaced with Trayforma, in the Nordics would save beverage carton has up to managed forests absorb CO2 from the atmosphere and when harvested act as the savings in CO2 emissions fossil CO2 emissions equal 45% lower carbon footprint a store. Carbon stays in the fibers when they are made into products, and even would equal to heating all to the annual emissions of than a PET plastic bottle.* through recycling. Carbon storage can be increased by substituting materials houses in Berlin in January. 76 000 cars. Governance from finite resources with renewable alternatives. This is a significant and growing * According to studies made opportunity for us. By substituting fossil-based materials, Stora Enso’s products by Ifeu for SIG Combibloc saved an estimated 20 million tonnes of CO2 in 2019 which is comparable to the average annual CO2 emissions of 5.1 million cars. 19 It all starts in the forest Our products Stora Enso 2019: Strategy – Transformation Strategy Annual Report 2019 are made of wood Sustainable forest and plantation management is essential for Stora Enso in securing long-term availability of wood – our most Strategy important renewable raw material. Stora Enso owns forest lands in Sweden, and has biological assets also This is Stora Enso in Finland, Brazil, Uruguay, China and Laos through subsidiaries, joint operations and indirectly through equity accounted investments. These Stora Enso in 2019 biological assets are used as raw material in pulp and mechanical wood Sustainability production and as biofuels. CEO’s overview Today, Stora Enso is one of the largest private forest owners in the world with forest assets valued at more than EUR 4.9 billion (land and biological How we create value assets) in its balance sheet the highest value being of biological assets of EUR 3.9 billion in Northern Europe. Globally, Stora Enso owns or Transformation manages lands covering a total area of 2.35 million hectares. About 30% of the Group’s wood raw material needs are covered from own sources or long Divisions term supply agreements globally. Group Leadership Team Wood procurement by region, % 40 Financials 30 20 10 0 Finland Sweden Central Russia Uruguay Baltic Brazil China Europe countries Governance Supply from own sources, % As a major player in the bioeconomy, We control about 30% of our wood raw material consumption globally. In 2019, we access to wood is critical for us. harvested in own forests and sourced from long-term agreements 11 million m3 in total. Our deliveries to our own mills were 37.1 million m3 in total. 20 Sustainable forestry is Stora Enso 2019: Strategy – Transformation Strategy Our wood supply was substantially strengthened Swedish forests Annual Report 2019 after the Bergvik Skog acquisition the foundation for long-term Total biological asset value in balance sheet EUR ~4.4 billion 1 408 000 ha of forest land carbon neutral raw material Fair value: EUR 3 133 million from forests. (31 Dec 2019) Tornator Strategy Stora Enso’s share 255 000 ha This is Stora Enso in Finland, Stora Enso in 2019 27 000 ha in Estonia, and Sustainability CEO’s overview The distribution of species 5 000 ha in Romania How we create value Fair value: EUR 740 million (31 Dec 2019) Transformation Pine 38.0% Spruce 35.1% Birch 13.3% Divisions Guangxi, Eucalyptus 12.3% Other species 1.3% Southern China (leased) Group Leadership Team 81 000 ha Montes del Plata, Veracel, of forest land Uruguay Brazil Fair value: EUR 181 million Stora Enso’s share Stora Enso’s share (31 Dec 2019) Forest growth in 2019 Forest growth million m3 fo.* 131 000 ha 112 000 ha Forest growth 10.8 of forest land of forest land In addition: Fair value: EUR 222 million Fair value: EUR 86 million Laos: trial plantation, Financials Annual harvesting 9.4 (31 Dec 2019) (31 Dec 2019) 3 900 ha (leased land) Productive standing stock at the end of 2019 193.9 Russia: 369 500 ha * Forest cubic metres In addition land book value totals EUR 548 million in the balance sheet at the end of 2019. (long-term harvesting rights) In 2019 we increased our forest holdings in Sweden in connection with the restructuring of Bergvik Skog, from indirect share of 936 thousand hectares to direct ownership of 1.4 million hectares of forest, of which 1.14 million hectares are productive forest land with standing stock of 143 million m³. The transaction increased Stora Enso’s net debt by about EUR 1.0 billion, and the Group issued its first green bond of Attractive valuation for the Bergvik Skog acquisition EUR 600 million dedicated to finance the acquisition. Hectares Price per ha (EUR) Value (EUR billion) With direct ownership, we can increase the security and flexibility of wood supply. This gives us better opportunities Productive forest holdings in Sweden 1 139 853 3 020 3.4 to further develop sustainable forest management, thus Forest value based on BillerudKorsnäs/AMF 1 408 245 3 700* 5.2 Governance strengthening our competitiveness. We strongly believe in Forest value based on LRF Konsult 1 139 853 5 700** 6.5 the bioeconomy and want to secure our competitive raw * Swedish packaging materials company BillerudKorsnäs sold 89.9% of Bergvik Skog Öst AB to Swedish pension insurance company AMF in June 2019 for material supply for the long term. an enterprise value of EUR 1.2 billion on a debt free basis. The valuation corresponds a price of approximately EUR 3 700 per hectare of forestland. ** The average price for forest land in Central Sweden based on LRF Konsult statistics generally for smaller forest deals. 21 Focus on Stora Enso 2019: Strategy – Transformation Strategy Key figures Annual Report 2019 sustainable forestry Stora Enso regenerated forest by planting We established the Forest division to add transparency and visibility of our forest operations. 65.5 million Strategy The new Forest division, which started operations in the beginning seedlings in 2019. of 2020, includes Stora Enso’s Swedish forest assets and the 41% share of Tornator with the majority of its forest assets located in This is Stora Enso Finland. The division also includes wood supply operations in Finland, The total amount of wood Sweden, Russia, and Baltic countries. Tree plantations in South (including roundwood and Stora Enso in 2019 America and Asia, linked to local pulp mills, continue to be reported wood chips) delivered to Stora Enso’s mills was Sustainability in the Biomaterials and Packaging Materials divisions. Forest division CEO’s overview provides support to management and development of tree plantations How we create value in South America and Asia. As a major player in the bioeconomy, access to wood is critical for us. Wood is the single most important raw material and the biggest 37.1 million m3 Transformation share of our costs, as well as a large part of the balance sheet. Forest sub in 2019. operations are an integrated part of our value chain. Divisions Stora Enso invested Group Leadership Team Creating additional value through forests 1. Competitive wood supply: Sources wood to Stora Enso mills, in a competitive and sustainable way EUR 72 million 2. Innovation: A platform for innovations and development. in 2019 in future growth through There are several opportunities with innovation to improve silviculture and fertilisation. our forestry operations. Examples include remote sensing techniques, including laser scanning; digital images of the forest simulating e.g. the impact of our operations to the forest. 98% Financials 3. Sustainable forest management: The climate benefits and economic values from growing forests are reached without compromising biodiversity and other of the lands Stora Enso owns environmental aspects. or manages were covered by forest certification schemes. Forest growth represents an important component of the annual operative return for long-term rotation forest assets, where the typical Share of fiber costs annual wood sales and related costs do not reflect the total profitability of Group’s total costs: of the forest assets. The long-term value change of the standing forests is an important component of the forestry business’s profitability. Our aim is to increase long term yield of our forests and plantations without compromising biodiversity. We can further increase the yield 34% by accurate and professional forest management utilising new digital technologies, with tree breeding as well as with R&D especially in the field of biotechnology. Governance See also: Financial Report: Note 12 Biological assets Sustainability Report: Forests, plantations, and land use Strategy Annual Report 2019 Divisions Strategy Consumer Board 23 Packaging Solutions 28 This is Stora Enso Biomaterials 33 Stora Enso in 2019 Sustainability Wood Products 38 CEO’s overview Paper 43 How we create value Transformation Divisions Group Leadership Team Financials Governance Annual Report 2019 Consumer Strategy Board The ambition of the Consumer Board division is Strategy to be the global leader in high-quality virgin fiber cartonboard. We aim to be the preferred global This is Stora Enso partner for customers in premium consumer board segments. Our wide board and barrier coating Stora Enso in 2019 selection is suitable for consumer packaging for Sustainability CEO’s overview liquid, food, pharmaceutical and luxury goods. Our products enable fossil-based materials in How we create value packaging to be replaced by renewable and Transformation recyclable alternatives. Divisions Consumer Board Packaging Solutions Biomaterials Wood Products Paper “The new Packaging Materials division has an industry leading Group Leadership Team product portfolio of virgin and recycled packaging materials. This combined with our innovation and sustainability Financials capabilities will create a very attractive total offering and allow us to take advantage of the call of consumers, customers and legislators for a transition to a circular economy. As the requirements for packaging renewability and recyclability are increasing, we see significant opportunities to replace other packaging materials with low carbon footprint, fiberbased solutions. We are focusing our innovation efforts on constantly improving the recyclability of our products and, together with our partners, developing solutions able to replace fossil-based packaging.” Hannu Kasurinen Executive Vice President Consumer Board Division As of 1 January 2020 EVP Packaging Materials Division Governance As of 1 January 2020, Stora Enso merged its containerboard business in the Packaging Solutions division with the Consumer Board division, creating a new Packaging Materials division. 24 Business environment Stora Enso 2019: Strategy – Divisions: Consumer Board Strategy Annual Report 2019 The premium consumer board market is expanding globally, providing growth opportunities for us in CUK (Coated Unbleached Kraft), FBB (Folding Boxboard), FSB (Food Service Board) and LPB (Liquid Packaging Board). Our SBS (Solid Bleached Sulphate) board serves the demanding niche of cosmetics and luxury packaging. Our growth is faster than the global packaging market, accelerated by our renewable Strategy materials and innovations that can replace fossil-based packaging materials. This is Stora Enso Stora Enso in 2019 Our strategy is built on three pillars: being the global Sustainability CEO’s overview leader in attractive end-use segments; customerHow we create value driven innovations based on renewable materials; and Transformation competitive assets well positioned in our key markets. Divisions Consumer Board Packaging Solutions Biomaterials Leading market position in core segments Stora Enso is one of the largest Wood Products producers of virgin fiber board in the world. We are the global leader in liquid Paper packaging and the biggest producer of Europe 63% Group Leadership Team Sales Asia Pacific 28% food service board and carton board in Rest of the world 9% our strategic segments in Europe. Financials Consumer Board division has a strong foundation in European markets, where our main competitors are BillerudKorsnäs, Metsä Board and Holmen. The main competitors outside Europe include Klabin, Evergreen, Georgia-Pacific and Offering in 2019 International Paper. Apart from other • Liquid packaging board for milk, yogurt, juice, paperboard manufacturers, one of soups, wine, soft drinks, water, etc. our biggest competitors is the plastic • Food service board for hot and cold drinking cups, packaging industry. EU legislation around fast food, ice cream, catering, etc. • Carton board for dry, frozen and chilled food, single-use plastics is driving up demand beverages, chocolate and confectionery, for fiber-based materials. Substituting pharmaceuticals, cosmetics, luxury goods, plastic packaging with fiber can make cigarettes, etc. a substantial contribution to meeting Governance • Graphical board for book and notepad covers, the EU’s CO2 targets. Even with the greeting cards, tickets, tags, etc. existing packaging technologies, 25% • Speciality paper for bags, pouches, labels, of European plastic packaging could be banderols, etc. Consumer Board mills replaced with renewable solutions. 25 Advantages Financial performance Stora Enso 2019: Strategy – Divisions: Consumer Board Strategy Annual Report 2019 Operational ROOC Strategy This is Stora Enso Our innovation efforts are targeted to develop 12.3% (Target >20%) Stora Enso in 2019 packaging materials Sales and operational EBIT and business Innovations to replace plastics Sustainability CEO’s overview and improve circularity EUR million % How we create value models that can Our innovation efforts are 3 000 2 500 24 20 Transformation replace fossil-based targeted to develop packaging materials and business models 2 000 16 non-renewable 1 500 12 that can replace fossil-based 1 000 8 Divisions non-renewable materials and Consumer Board materials and meet meet the demands of the circular 500 0 4 0 the demands of the bioeconomy. The key focus 2016 2017 2018 2019 Packaging Solutions areas of our innovation work Sales Biomaterials circular bioeconomy. are: bio-barriers based on MFC; source reduction by adding MFC Operational EBIT, % Wood Products to the board; and sustainable Paper biocomposite packaging components such as screwcaps Group Leadership Team and straws with less plastic. Financials Strong customer relations and a leading position in attractive segments We work throughout our value Wide portfolio based on Strong assets with further Global footprint geared chain with external partners, renewable and recyclable development potential for growth customers and start-ups to materials accelerate innovation. Together Our asset base is strong, with Our mill in Beihai, China, allows we find new solutions to Consumer Board offers cost-competitive integrated us to expand our offering to new improve the quality, efficiency, the widest portfolio of premium, mills in Imatra and Skoghall, customers and geographical functionality and recyclability of virgin fiber board in Europe. specialised mills in Fors and markets. It continues to be a key packaging by using renewable Thanks to our wide selection Ingerois, and a state-of-the-art growth initiative for the division materials. We have a strong of barrier coatings, paperboard mill in Beihai. We also are because the most significant market position in all our product can be used in far more end-use the industry leader in microgrowth in virgin fiber-based segments, and we collaborate Governance applications compared with fibrillated cellulose (MFC). consumer board is taking place in with our long-term customers to paperboard as such. We also China and the Asia Pacific region. understand the drivers behind offer plant-based coating for fully consumer needs to create renewable barrier packaging. the packaging of the future. 26 Highlights of 2019 Stora Enso 2019: Strategy – Divisions: Consumer Board Strategy Annual Report 2019 New Strategy Accelerating MFC 2019 product development This is Stora Enso Production and commercialisation of MFC was further enhanced Stora Enso in 2019 following the completion of an investment at Imatra Mills Sustainability CEO’s overview in Finland. How we create value Transformation New 2019 Divisions Serving our customers with a number Consumer Board of new products launched in 2019 Packaging Solutions In 2019, we launched several new products to meet Biomaterials our customers’ increasing demands for product safety, Wood Products functionality, sustainability and recyclability. Our materials Paper increase the opportunities for renewable packaging and for New cosmetics tube replacing fossil-based materials: Group Leadership Team to replace plastic • Stora Enso and Sulapac launched a renewable and biodegradable straw to combat the global problem of Financials A paperboard tube to reduce plastic waste. The straw has strong usability and works just plastic in the primary packaging like a traditional straw. The new straws entered the market of cosmetics is a new application in late 2019 and are available to brands and consumers area for our paperboard. The looking for more eco-friendly solutions. body of the tube is made of • A premium quality board, Arctic Deer™ by Stora Enso, Natura Shape™ by Stora Enso, was launched in China. Produced at Beihai Mill, Arctic Deer which is 70% based on renewable is suitable for applications in food and pharmaceutical raw material and thus reduces packaging, as well as in publications. the need to use fossil-based • A strong kraft board, CKB Jade™ by Stora Enso, was raw material. launched in China to meet the packaging requirements of the growing online food business. • Cupforma Natura™ by Stora Enso with dispersion coating At the forefront of innovation is a new material for hot and cold drinking cups, and for ice cream packaging. It is produced without a traditional New products’ share of Consumer plastic coating layer and designed for full fiber recovery in Board division’s total sales was a recycling process. Governance 17% in 2019, which already • Wood-based biocomposites, DuraSense™ by Stora Enso, exceeds the group’s target level were introduced to new customer segments including of 15% and is expected to grow in premium cosmetics, food and luxury brands seeking the coming years. alternatives to plastic packaging. 27 Main focus Stora Enso 2019: Strategy – Divisions: Consumer Board Strategy Driving the change towards more Annual Report 2019 efficient recycling of packaging and targets Stora Enso enhances the circularity of its products for 2020 through innovative material solutions. In addition to this, the Consumer Board division develops partnerships for the collection and recycling of paperboard packaging. We work with our value chain partners, participate Strategy in industry collaboration and co-create with our Safety – aiming at customers for circular design. One example of this is zero accidents the aim to start recycling used paper cups on a large This is Stora Enso scale at Langerbrugge paper mill in Belgium. Bringing paper cups into the recycling scheme represents Stora Enso in 2019 a new business opportunity as cups are such an Grow faster than Sustainability underutilised source of quality recyclable fiber. CEO’s overview the global packaging Today, Stora Enso is one of the world-leading market and leverage suppliers of food service board to cup makers. We the potential of joint How we create value are now looking into partnerships for the collection packaging materials and sorting of used paper cups to ensure that this portfolio Transformation high-quality fiber material is captured and given a second life. The plan strengthens Stora Enso’s role Divisions as a driver of circular business. In a trial run at the Langerbrugge mill, half a million Consumer Board baled post-consumer paper cups collected from fast Develop new business Packaging Solutions food restaurants and coffee houses were recycled through customerinto magazine paper. and consumer-driven Biomaterials The result confirmed that the fibers from the paper innovation Wood Products cups are well suited for other paper applications. Paper The paper board for cups is made of high-quality, renewable fibers which can have several lives due Group Leadership Team to recycling. Recycling a paper cup can reduce its life-cycle carbon footprint by half. Increase sales Financials generated by new products and services Read more about the trial at Langerbrugge Mill Maintain market position for our core segments in Europe, and grow in the Chinese and South East Asian market Leverage the potential Governance of our existing assets Annual Report 2019 Packaging Strategy Solutions The Packaging Solutions division provides fiberStrategy based board materials and corrugated packaging products and services that are designed for a wide This is Stora Enso range of applications. Our renewable high-end packaging solutions serve leading converters, Stora Enso in 2019 brand owners and retailers – including those Sustainability CEO’s overview in e-commerce – that are looking to optimise performance, drive innovation and improve their How we create value environmental footprint. Transformation Divisions Consumer Board Packaging Solutions Biomaterials Wood Products Paper Group Leadership Team In 2019, our strategy focused on growing significantly in Financials containerboard and expanding selectively in corrugated packaging. The global trends of sustainability and e-commerce favoured market growth and our current footprint included markets with high growth rates, attractive profitability and low risk level. Moreover, we continue to focus on growing through product innovation, design and operational excellence whilst leveraging digitalisation to create competitive advantages. As of 1 January 2020, Stora Enso is merging its container board business in the Packaging Solutions division with the Consumer Board division, creating a new Packaging Materials division. Governance The remaining business in Packaging Solutions together with Stora Enso’s recently created Formed Fiber unit, will constitute a more focused Packaging Solutions division. 29 Business environment Stora Enso 2019: Strategy – Divisions: Packaging Solutions Strategy Annual Report 2019 The customer base in containerboards and corrugated packaging is fragmented as it encompasses converters, brand owners, retailers, industrial and e-commerce companies. This offers opportunities for differentiation as customer expectations evolve and for leveraging packaging as a tool for brand building and engaging with end-consumers. Strategy This is Stora Enso Total retail e-commerce sales are forecast to grow by 15% annually. Stora Enso in 2019 Sustainability CEO’s overview How we create value This is driving growth in corrugated packaging, Transformation which accounts for most of the e-commerce packaging. Divisions Consumer Board Packaging Solutions Biomaterials Leading market position in core segments As an industry leader in renewable packaging, the Packaging Solutions Wood Products division holds a strong position in the Paper corrugated packaging focus markets: Europe 70% Sales a leading status in the Nordics, second Group Leadership Team Asia Pacific 13% Offering in 2019 Rest of the world 18% in the Baltics and Poland, third in China Financials • Kraftliner: corrugated box liner, e.g. for food, fruit, and fifth in Russia. The main competitors vegetables and consumer electronics are Smurfit Kappa, Mondi, DS Smith and • Recycled liner: corrugated box liner, e.g. for International Paper. furniture, electronics and e-commerce boxes • Semi-chemical fluting: corrugated box fluting, e.g. In containerboard, we have worldfor fruit, vegetables and heavy-duty goods class assets and provide high-end • Recycled fluting: corrugated box fluting, e.g. for products. The market is fragmented in industrial and consumer goods both containerboard and corrugated • Corrugated packaging: corrugated boxes, e.g. for packaging with many larger and smaller food, retail, e-commerce and industrial goods players. • Packaging automation: packaging machines, such as box formers, case packers and palletising robots In 2019, the Packaging Solutions division • Design services: packaging design operated three containerboard mills, development services four rigid box plants, 17 corrugated • Technical services: equipment optimisation services box plants, 10 design studios and one • Intelligent packaging: RFID-based packaging Governance solutions for track-and-trace possibilities, including innovation centre. plastic-free RFID tags • Kraft papers: high-strength paper, e.g. for bags for Containerboard grocery and construction materials Corrugated packaging 30 Advantages Financial performance Stora Enso 2019: Strategy – Divisions: Packaging Solutions Strategy Annual Report 2019 Positive growth trends Operational ROOC 14.4% In containerboard, we see continued demand and growth for kraftliner for use in the areas of fresh produce and food and demanding industrial Integrated supply chains Strategy and retail applications. Our focus is to be a strategic supplier and deliver high-performing Packaging Solutions maintains products and services within these segments. a vertically integrated position This is Stora Enso in the supply chain. In 2019, (Target >20%) In corrugated packaging, we strive to build our operations ranged Stora Enso in 2019 partnership positions with larger brand owners from paper collection for and retailers, helping them add value to their recycling to the purchase of Sales and operational EBIT Sustainability CEO’s overview offerings through innovation and sustainability wood, to the production of EUR million % advantages. The e-commerce segment is lightweight containerboards 1 500 30 How we create value especially attractive due to its anticipated and versatile solutions for 1 250 25 fast market growth (15% CAGR 2018–2022). corrugated packaging. 1 000 20 Transformation Corrugated packaging is fossil-free, renewable, 750 15 recyclable and compostable and therefore well 500 10 Divisions positioned in versatile application areas. 250 5 Consumer Board 0 0 2016 2017 2018 2019 Packaging Solutions Innovation and design capabilities Sales Biomaterials Operational EBIT, % We bring added value to Wood Products our customers through Paper Access to virgin fiber experienced packaging Group Leadership Team designers in our design Stora Enso has, partly through direct forest holdings, good studios for the development Financials access to the wood necessary for of innovative packaging, producing virgin containerboard. for example for traditional retail and e-commerce, high-quality printing facilities, market-leading containerboard products and intelligent packaging. This includes e-commerce packaging to replace Sustainable packaging plastics, as well as We offer low material weight, RFID (Radio Frequency optimised transport and a fully Governance Identification) enabled boxes recyclable product made from a renewable raw material, so that that allow digital interactions our customers can reduce their with end-consumers. environmental footprint. 31 Highlights of 2019 Stora Enso 2019: Strategy – Divisions: Packaging Solutions Strategy Annual Report 2019 Strategy This is Stora Enso Stora Enso in 2019 Biofuels through energyAward-winning packaging for knitting equipment Sustainability CEO’s overview efficient technology Our innovative packaging design “Wool locker” was awarded How we create value An industrial-scale pilot plant the German Packaging Award 2019. Wool locker is a packaging built at the Heinola fluting mill designed for knitting equipment, keeping the yarn and needles Transformation in Finland will turn sludge from organised. It can later be used for storing knitting tools, giving the mill’s water treatment plant it a second life. The packaging is made of 100% renewable Divisions into renewable fuel. The plant corrugated board and is well suited for e-commerce. will test new energy-efficient Consumer Board technology. The new biofuels Packaging Solutions will reduce the carbon dioxide emissions at the mill’s power Biomaterials plant, and support Stora Enso’s Wood Products goal of further reducing its Paper dependence on fossil fuels. Group Leadership Team Financials New capacity for packaging at Oulu Mill in a cost-efficient way The Oulu paper mill will be converted for kraftliner production in 2020 to strengthen the Group’s position in the growing packaging business. The longer-term market outlook for kraftliner products is positive – with a structural growth of roughly 2% per annum. This is largely driven by the growing demand for sustainable packaging in retail and foods as well as the growth of e-commerce and industrial applications. At Oulu Mill, we plan Governance to produce virgin fiber-based linerboards. The product will have many advantages over standard kraftliner boards, namely higher strength, improved printability and food safety due to being made of 100% virgin fibers. 32 Main focus Stora Enso 2019: Strategy – Divisions: Packaging Solutions Strategy Awarded corrugated ice cream packaging Annual Report 2019 In 2019, a packaging solution developed by Stora Enso and targets in Lahti for the Finnish artisan ice cream manufacturer for 2020 Vanhan Porvoon Jäätelötehdas was given two awards; the ScanStar 2019 by the Scandinavian Packaging Association and the WorldStar 2020 by the World Packaging Organisation. The corrugated packaging replaces plastic and metal Strategy containers and is aimed at bulk sales from fixed and Safety – aiming at mobile sales points. zero accidents “The idea came up when I saw the EcoFishBox This is Stora Enso by Stora Enso. After DesignStudio workshops, we settled on the final version. A corrugated bulk package Stora Enso in 2019 works very well for ice cream as a sales package and in Expand the Sustainability logistics, and it also has an insulating effect which helps CEO’s overview corrugated keep the ice cream frozen,” says Samuli Wirgentius, business in Ice Cream Specialist and Managing Director at Vanhan How we create value Porvoon Jäätelötehdas. selected markets The new packaging solution also saves on storage Transformation and time. Previously the containers had to be returned and washed. The new packaging is delivered as Divisions flat sheets and assembled on site and can be sent Commercialise for material recycling after use. It is made of 95% innovations that Consumer Board renewable material with a PET film barrier approved for contribute to Packaging Solutions food contact. profitable growth The ice cream package is a good example of how Biomaterials Packaging Solutions division’s design studios work Wood Products closely with customers to co-create new and innovative Paper product packaging. Leverage Group Leadership Team digitalisation for Read more about the awarded package better customer Financials experience and operational efficiencies Capitalise on completed investments and upgrades Governance Annual Report 2019 Biomaterials Strategy The Biomaterials division offers a wide variety of pulp grades to meet the demands of paper, board, tissue, textile and hygiene product producers. We maximise the business potential of the side Strategy streams of our processes, such as tall oil and turpentine from biomass. Based on our strong This is Stora Enso innovation approach, all fractions of biomass, like Stora Enso in 2019 lignin and sugars, hold substantial potential for use in various applications. Sustainability CEO’s overview How we create value Transformation Divisions Consumer Board Packaging Solutions Biomaterials Wood Products Paper Group Leadership Team Financials “Biomaterials aspires to meet the growing demand for replacing products made from fossil-based and hazardous materials with bio-based solutions. Through our worldclass innovation work, we aim at building and developing viable businesses from new opportunities. As a strong and specialised chemical pulp producer, we focus on maximising the value of hardwood eucalyptus pulp in Latin America, differentiating our Nordic mills’ softwood pulp production to grow existing business, and generating profitable growth from Governance emerging businesses.” Our dissolving pulp, Pure by Stora Enso, can be used in Markus Mannström Executive Vice President production of cellophane – a true Biomaterials Division renewable alternative to plastics. 34 Business environment Stora Enso 2019: Strategy – Divisions: Biomaterials Strategy Annual Report 2019 The nature of the global pulp business continues to remain cyclic. However, its longterm growth is strongly supported by megatrends such as growth of the middle class in developing countries and progress in digitalisation, urbanisation, eco-awareness, and changing lifestyles. The market for renewable textiles, nonwoven materials, carton boards for packaging, hygiene products, and specialty and tissue papers continues to grow. Strategy This in turn generates demand for our various pulp grades, particularly with the aging population driving demand for fluff pulp. This is Stora Enso Stora Enso in 2019 Our aim is to maintain our competitive position through differentiation Sustainability CEO’s overview and innovation, and to extract the maximum value from our joint How we create value operations at Veracel and Montes del Plata in Latin America. Transformation Divisions Leading market position in core segments The Biomaterials division has own Consumer Board operations in Finland and Sweden and Packaging Solutions the United States, and joint operations Biomaterials Europe 62% in Brazil and Uruguay. Wood Products Sales Asia Pacific 29% Rest of the world 9% In our Nordic mills, the aim is to increase Paper the share of specialised pulp, i.e. fluff and Group Leadership Team dissolving pulps, to address the changing paper pulp demand and to ensure the Financials right product mix and customer base. This responds to the increasing demand Offering for sustainable fibers in the textile industry • Bleached hardwood and bleached softwood and for renewable hygiene products, for pulps for packaging and container board, tissue, example. We are also exploring areas specialty papers and paper where digitalisation can help us improve • Unbleached pulp for container boards, kraft papers, efficiency and safety in our value chain specialty papers while reducing cost. • Fluff pulp for personal hygiene and medical care, incontinence protection, baby diapers, napkins Other major pulp makers on the market • Dissolving pulp for viscose staple fibers, sustainable textile fibers, pharmaceuticals, acoustic surfaces, include, for example, Metsä Fibre, sponges, cellophane International Paper, Sappi, and Suzano • Lignin for phenol replacement and molten binders (our partner in Veracel). • Tall oil for use in detergents, soaps, adhesives, lubricants, paints, coatings, biofuels, etc. In terms of new potential markets for Governance • Turpentine for fragrances, flavours, detergents, renewable solutions, the Biomaterials solvents and thinners among other products Biomaterials pulp mills division faces competition from • Microfibrillated cellulose (MFC) for specialty R&D facilities and/or pilot plants biochemical companies and the papers, paints and hygiene products Plantations chemical industry. 35 Advantages Financial performance Stora Enso 2019: Strategy – Divisions: Biomaterials Strategy Annual Report 2019 Operational ROOC Strategy This is Stora Enso In addition to pulp products, the Biomaterials division 9.4% (Target >20%) Largest portfolio of pulp Stora Enso in 2019 develops a strong grades with the right pulp mix for customer needs Sustainability Sales and operational EBIT CEO’s overview business portfolio for Unlike many other suppliers EUR million % How we create value lignin, regenerated that are focused on one 1 800 1 500 48 40 Transformation cellulose in textiles, specific pulp grade, we offer the widest pulp portfolio on 1 200 32 MFC and bio-based 900 24 the market. Our customers value 600 16 Divisions the ease of having access to Consumer Board chemicals. a broad selection of products of stable quality. 300 0 8 0 2016 2017 2018 2019 Packaging Solutions Sales Biomaterials Operational EBIT, % Wood Products Paper Group Leadership Team Financials Superior customer service and strong customer relations Fiber knowledge and innovation We have been working closely with our customers to understand their World-class experts in fibers and chemistry work for the Biomaterials business challenges and to identify and develop unique or innovative division and continually advance our know-how of what wood as value offerings that respond to those challenges. Our technical experts a raw material can make possible. Their daily mission is to transform advise customers on the best usage of our pulp in order to achieve biomass into renewable solutions on our selected emerging and Governance the desired functionality and quality of their products. The foundation existing business growth platforms. We are proud to work with top for our customer relations is our aim to be involved downstream in scientists who link us to global research and thus also add value to our the value chain, thus making optimal use of our fibers. This allows us to customers’ businesses. Biomaterials innovation sites are located in build solid, regular and long-term relationships with our customers. Finland, Sweden and the US. 36 Highlights of 2019 Stora Enso 2019: Strategy – Divisions: Biomaterials Strategy Annual Report 2019 Strategy This is Stora Enso Stora Enso in 2019 Replacing fossil-based Bio-based carbon materials for energy storage Sustainability CEO’s overview packaging materials with renewable alternatives Stora Enso is investing EUR 10 million to build a pilot facility How we create value for producing bio-based carbon materials based on lignin. Stora Enso has decided to invest Wood-based carbon can be utilised as a crucial component Transformation EUR 9 million in a pilot facility for in the batteries typically used in consumer electronics, producing renewable material the automotive industry and large-scale energy storage Divisions (FDCA) for enabling bio-based systems. The investment further strengthens Stora Enso’s plastic packaging. The facility will opportunities to replace fossil-based and mined raw materials Consumer Board convert plant-based sugars into as well as to connect sustainable materials with ongoing Packaging Solutions FDCA, the renewable building technology innovations. block required to make PEF. Biomaterials PEF is a bio-based alternative Wood Products suitable for different packaging Paper applications in the food and beverage industry, in Group Leadership Team pharmaceuticals and for aerosol bottle and can manufacturers, for Financials instance. With the investment, Stora Enso continues to build its long-term R&D work while targeting new markets with innovative, renewable materials that replace fossil-based materials. The pilot plant will be located at Stora Enso’s Langerbrugge Mill in Belgium and run by the company’s Biomaterials division. The plant is More dissolving pulp capacity to fulfil market demand estimated to be ready in the first quarter of 2021. Enocell Mill in Finland has been converted to focus entirely on the production of dissolving pulp, used as a raw material in the textile industry, for example, to replace cotton and fossilbased materials, such as polyester. Demand for dissolving pulp Governance is growing at above the industrial average, driven by increased demand for viscose-type fabrics in the textile industry and non-woven applications. The production of softwood pulp, used mainly for papers and boards, will gradually be discontinued at Enocell Mill. 37 Main focus Stora Enso 2019: Strategy – Divisions: Biomaterials Strategy NaturaFluff by Stora Enso for disposable hygiene products Annual Report 2019 Fluff pulp, made from long fiber softwood, is used as a raw and targets material in disposable hygiene products and as the main for 2020 component in air-laid nonwoven materials such as table-tops and napkins. Disposable hygiene products can be divided into the subsegments of Baby, Adult, and Feminine Care products. While producers try to meet the specific needs of each sub-segment, Strategy generally consumers want products that are highly absorbent, Safety is our do not leak, are comfortable, thin and flexible, and that also priority number come at an attractive price. The natural and organic segment one, aiming at zero This is Stora Enso for hygiene products is growing strongly – all major brands accidents have launched products in recent years with some sort of Stora Enso in 2019 natural claim. Sustainability Stora Enso has been producing fluff pulp for the past CEO’s overview 50 years at Skutskär Mill in Sweden and is today the largest producer of fluff pulp in Europe. At full capacity, the mill will be Creating a How we create value able to produce some 415 000 tons of fluff pulp annually. customer-centric We believe the trend towards more sustainable, operational and Transformation environmentally friendly, disposable hygiene products will business culture continue. Many of our customers have set ambitious targets Divisions to reduce the carbon footprint of their products in the years to come. Currently, we are running innovation projects to Consumer Board help our customers further reduce their carbon footprint by Packaging Solutions using our raw material, without sacrificing the performance Accelerating of the end-product. market entry for Biomaterials new products and Wood Products services Paper Read more about fluff pulp Group Leadership Team Financials Continuous production, output and operational efficiency improvement Helping our customers to become more sustainable Governance Annual Report 2019 Wood Strategy Products The Wood Products division is a leading provider Strategy of innovative wood-based solutions. The product range covers applications for construction, the This is Stora Enso window and door industry, and wood processing industries, as well as for the packaging and interior Stora Enso in 2019 or exterior decoration industries. Accelerated Sustainability CEO’s overview development of biocomposites addresses plastic replacement opportunities in segments ranging How we create value from consumer goods to industrial components, Transformation cosmetics and packaging in a cost-competitive way. Pellets provide a sustainable solution for Divisions heating. The offering includes service concepts Consumer Board that complement each other, such as Building Packaging Solutions Solutions, integrated distribution operations and Biomaterials e-business. Our solutions meet strict requirements Wood Products regarding safety, quality, design and sustainability. Paper Group Leadership Team Financials “Our accelerated growth is based on new, innovative building solutions as well as a successful expansion of biocomposites. We are well positioned for growth due to our strong focus on building the right capabilities in the organisation. This enables us to develop new applications and services as well as to maximise the benefits of our Governance investments in automation and digitalisation.” Jari Suominen Executive Vice President Rising close to 50 metres, Lighthouse Joensuu building in Finland was granted the ‘Puupalkinto’ Wood Products Division Wood Award 2019 for pioneering work to develop the construction of wooden high-rise buildings. 39 Business environment Stora Enso 2019: Strategy – Divisions: Wood Products Strategy Annual Report 2019 Wood Products division has close to 2 500 customers in 60 countries. The customer and supplier market is highly fragmented, competitive and volatile because it is mainly connected to the construction market. For a developed player like Stora Enso, this means opportunities to bring agile solutions to the otherwise traditional commodity market. It also enables us to steer, automate and digitalise the total value chain: from the forest to end-use Strategy segments such as construction, packaging, furniture, pellets and bioenergy. This is Stora Enso Stora Enso in 2019 Sustainability CEO’s overview The world needs a new Stora Enso is the largest supplier of wooden construction material in How we create value approach to materials, and Europe and the fourth largest in the world with 21 production units in Transformation wood is part of the solution. 11 different countries. Divisions Most of Wood Products division’s sales go directly to industrial Consumer Board manufacturers, merchants or retailers, Packaging Solutions with the remaining channels being Biomaterials Leading market position in core segments wholesalers and trading houses. Our Wood Products aim is to increase the share of valueadded products and services while Paper Europe 64% also developing our distribution centres. Asia Pacific 23% Group Leadership Team Sales This means that the share of direct sales Middle East and North Africa 9% will grow in the future. The global market Financials Rest of the world 4% growth for sawn softwood is estimated to be 2–3% annually. Competition is varied and strong, ranging from other sawmills to manufacturers of construction and Offering interior materials. Wood pellets face • Building solutions competition from other heating systems, • Building components whereas for biocomposites the main • Digital tools: Calculatis, CLT360, competitor is conventional plastic. Prodlib and Track&Trace In the construction market the new • Cross laminated timber (CLT) end-uses of wood are increasing their • Laminated veneer lumber (LVL) market share and offering alternatives • Window and door components to replace non-renewable materials. • Construction beams • ThermoWood Governance • Classic sawn and classic planed Other significant sawmilling and wooden • Pellets material providers include: Binderholz, • Biocomposites Pfeiffer, SCA Timber, Metsä Fibre and • Digital R&D lab HEAL Production units Holzindustrie Schweighofer. 40 Advantages Financial performance Stora Enso 2019: Strategy – Divisions: Wood Products Strategy Annual Report 2019 Competitiveness through digitalisation Digitalisation European-wide and automation sawmill network Operational ROOC 16.6% We are developing digital solutions throughout the complete value chain. We see significant will take our woodOur 21 production units Strategy opportunities in digitalisation and automation, from identifying and harvesting the right tree based solutions are well positioned close to a high-quality raw material in the forest to adding digital solutions such as scanners, robotics and automation to our to the next level. supply in 11 different European countries. Our sawmill network This is Stora Enso production process for optimal quality and gives us a unique opportunity (Target >20%) efficiency. We are also developing intelligent to optimise the wood sourcing Stora Enso in 2019 attributes to the products to enable utilisation and production efficiency and and analysis of the data that is collected. continuously develop our product Sales and operational EBIT Sustainability CEO’s overview Building Information Modelling (BIM) tools and range. It also enables us to utilise EUR million % digital solutions enable improved transparency the benefit of efficient logistics 1 800 18 How we create value and communication between all players in and harmonise ways of working 1 500 15 the construction process. Our digital tools make to further enhance Stora Enso’s 1 200 12 Transformation the construction process smoother. For example, position as a global provider of 900 9 structural designs for CLT and LVL buildings can wood-based solutions. 600 6 Divisions be created online with Calculatis, and the CLT360 300 3 mobile app shows where individual CLT components Broad product and Consumer Board 0 0 should be located on a construction site. service offering 2016 2017 2018 2019 Packaging Solutions Sales Our high-quality wood-based Operational EBIT, % Biomaterials products and services target Wood Products the end-user segments of Paper construction, packaging, furniture and bioenergy. We utilise our Group Leadership Team wooden materials to the fullest for our high-quality products. Financials The parts not utilised for production are used to produce energy. On average, the utilisation rate of wooden raw material is over 99%. Global sales network combined with local presence Our global know-how and broad product portfolio are our competitive advantages. We are close to our customers and Renewable wood as a raw material serve them locally through our extensive sales network. We also Wood is the only construction material suitable for large-scale construction that is both fully differentiate through innovative renewable and recyclable. Wood stores carbon for its entire lifetime, while sustainable forest services such as integrated Governance management guarantees the growth of new trees. Trees grow by absorbing carbon dioxide distribution centres, building from the atmosphere and the longer the carbon is stored, the greater the environmental benefit. applications and building Building with wood can help reduce embodied fossil carbon dioxide emissions up to 50% during concepts, as well as through the building life cycle compared with other, non-renewable materials. eBusiness solutions. 41 Highlights of 2019 Stora Enso 2019: Strategy – Divisions: Wood Products Strategy Building Concepts – Annual Report 2019 construction solutions with all the benefits of wood Increased CLT capacity Building Concepts by Stora Enso are basic guidelines and tools for building a modern construction New In 2019, Stora Enso opened its third production unit for 2019 with wood. The Concepts cross-laminated timber, this time in Sweden, at Gruvön are intended for all players in Strategy sawmill. The production capacity of 100 000 m3 annually the construction value chain, i.e. architects, structural engineers, amounts to 4 500 normal-sized apartments. The total developers, landowners, city This is Stora Enso production of CLT broke the one million cubic metres planners, etc. Building Concepts Stora Enso in 2019 mark this year. CLT replaces non-renewable materials in by Stora Enso allow the creation Biocomposites offer an affordable way to go green of cost-competitive buildings the construction industry and we see a growing demand based on the best-performing The growing market for bio-based products creates Sustainability CEO’s overview for sustainable solutions in the construction market. combination of our prefabricated opportunities for both raw material suppliers and product building components and wood manufacturers alike, as sustainability and the environment rise How we create value Therefore Stora Enso has also initiated a feasibility study products. The concepts cover up on consumer agendas. for a possible CLT unit in the Czech Republic. residential buildings, ecoDuraSense® by Stora Enso is a blend of wood fibers and Transformation schools and offices. In November polymers, offering our customers an affordable way to go green. 2019, the building concept The DuraSense® product family is suitable for a wide range of Divisions for offices was launched and applications, from consumer goods to industrial applications for Stora Enso announced its plan to manufacturing by injection moulding, extrusion and 3D printing. Consumer Board move its headquarters in Helsinki The re-usable and durable cutlery made from our Packaging Solutions into a new wooden building – biocomposites has a significantly lower carbon footprint than following this very office concept. conventional plastic cutlery. Biomaterials Wood Products Paper Building with wood Group Leadership Team Stora Enso was selected as the provider of wooden raw material for several new buildings around the world, including: Financials Consolidation of • SMU (Singapore Management University), a five-floor Finnish spruce production teaching hub building completed with a hybrid solution of at Varkaus sawmill a steel frame and CLT floor structures. • The new “Bø” student campus for the University i SørøstAligned with the strategy to Norge in Telemark, Norway: CLT and glulam were used to focus on cost-competitive and build two new five-floor houses including 290 apartments, integrated production, Stora Enso together with our partner Woodcon A/S. will consolidate its Finnish spruce • Astor in Geel, Belgium: The highest hybrid timber and timber production at Varkaus Mill. concrete structure in Belgium for a senior housing project This is to create synergies with consisting 2 buildings 4 and 11 floors completed with our the existing LVL (laminated veneer partner CLT-S. timber), pulp and paperboard • A vertical and horizontal extension of an old Victorian-era mills. Using the full potential of worker’s cottage, House Windsor, in Melbourne, Australia, the sawmill gives a wider range with large CNC processed re-glued LVL elements delivered of products, enhanced R&D and by Stora Enso. innovation work, and increased • Lapinmäki kindergarten, the first kindergarten in Helsinki, Governance efficiency in production. As Finland completed with CLT by Stora Enso. Use of a result of this consolidation, the CLT360 scanning service for the correct order of panel the Kitee sawmill in Finland was installation enabled the smooth construction process closed by the year end. with our partner Puurakentajat. 42 Main focus Stora Enso 2019: Strategy – Divisions: Wood Products Strategy Digitalisation and sustainability go together Annual Report 2019 in a wooden building for BOKU and targets “At the new BOKU seminar centre, sustainability, for 2020 efficiency and digitalisation are perfectly integrated in the construction process. This makes this project a true showcase,” says Hans-Peter Weiss, Managing Director of the Austrian state real estate company (BIG). The project benefits from the latest digital tools Strategy by Stora Enso, for example track-and-trace for Safety – aiming at zero accidents on-time logistics and sensors reporting the condition of the wooden elements during the construction This is Stora Enso phase. The installers can locate the construction elements on-site with a 3D model tool and shorten Stora Enso in 2019 the construction time with enhanced accuracy. The Increasing the CLT capacity by ramping Sustainability indoor air quality in the newly constructed building will CEO’s overview also be measured digitally. up the new Gruvön CLT The sustainability proof of new seminar centre production line and How we create value for Austrian University of Natural Resources and Life finalising the feasibility Sciences (BOKU) means that the wood used in this study for a new CLT mill in Transformation building has removed 596 tons of carbon dioxide from Ždírec, Czech Republic the atmosphere, equivalent to the annual emissions Divisions of 340 cars. The building was awarded the “klimaaktiv GOLD” timber construction certificate as early as during Consumer Board the construction process. Finalise the establishment Packaging Solutions The four-storey building located in centre of Vienna of a new building solutions and completed with CLT by Stora Enso contains beam production facility in Biomaterials Ybbs, Austria 10 seminar rooms, one floor for the library, and Wood Products the top two storeys provide shared office space for Paper the institute. The building is expected to be completed in September 2020. Group Leadership Team Further develop biocomposites properties Financials Read more about BOKU for different conversion types and increase the use of recycled plastics Successfully launch building concepts for various building types and continuously develop new applications and components Continue the successful Governance implementation of the digital roadmap and increased automation in operations Annual Report 2019 Paper Strategy Stora Enso is the second largest paper producer in Europe with an established global customer base and a wide product portfolio for print and office use. Customers benefit from Stora Enso’s Strategy broad selection of papers made from recycled and virgin fiber, as well as from our valuable industry This is Stora Enso experience, know-how and customer support. Stora Enso in 2019 Sustainability CEO’s overview How we create value Transformation Divisions Consumer Board Packaging Solutions Biomaterials Wood Products Paper Group Leadership Team Financials “We believe that paper will continue to play an important role in media, advertising and the office in the future. We work closely with our customers to enhance value for their business. At the same time, we strengthen our competitiveness by further lowering costs and improving our efficiency and processes throughout our operations. Our paper products are inherently recyclable, and our processes are optimised for the highest level of resourceefficiency. Our fit-for purpose product offering and service concepts are designed to meet our customers’ requirements Governance regarding quality, reliability and sustainability.” Kati ter Horst Executive Vice President More than 90% of our own paper brands have been awarded Paper Division the European Ecolabel, the official EU recognition for greener products. 44 Business environment Stora Enso 2019: Strategy – Divisions: Paper Strategy Annual Report 2019 During 2019, the decline in European demand for paper has accelerated and global trading conditions have been challenging. This has resulted in an unfavourable demand and supply balance for paper producers, as industry capacity reductions have been inadequate. One of the most challenged paper segments is woodfree coated (WFC), which Stora Enso will exit towards the end of 2020 after Oulu Mill is converted to produce new generation Strategy kraftliner. This will not impact Stora Enso’s other paper businesses and will further contribute to reducing complexity and costs. This is Stora Enso Stora Enso in 2019 We provide our customers with a wide range of products and services for print and office use. By providing our Sustainability CEO’s overview How we create value customers with products with superior environmental Transformation performance, we also help them to improve their sustainability performance. Divisions Consumer Board Print and digital media complement Packaging Solutions each other: flyers and folders are used in Biomaterials Leading market position in core segments advertising, and online retailers publish Wood Products printed magazines and catalogues and establish physical store locations to Paper improve customer experience. Digital Europe 83% Group Leadership Team companies use direct mail to proactively Sales Rest of the world 17% promote subscriptions to online services. Financials Publishers still generate most of their revenue from print, and print media remains the most trusted source of information. Print advertising brings consumers into stores. Book paper sales have remained quite Offering stable as many people prefer reading books in the traditional paper format. Copy • Newsprint and book papers paper is performing relatively well as people • Uncoated magazine papers (SC) for magazines and retail advertising continue to print in offices and at home. • Coated papers for magazines, brochures, catalogues and art books With its comprehensive product range, • Office papers for notepads, envelopes, printing Stora Enso’s Paper division is the second Governance and copying biggest paper manufacturer in Europe • Technical services where the main competitors are UPM, • eBusiness solutions Sappi, Holmen, Norske Skog, Mondi and • Sustainability support Paper mills the Navigator company. 45 Advantages Financial performance Stora Enso 2019: Strategy – Divisions: Paper Strategy Strong assets serving global paper markets Annual Report 2019 The Paper division reviews and Focused innovation develops its key assets – pulp Cash flow after investing mills, paper machines, and Operational excellence is activities to sales 9.3% about having competitive assets energy set-ups – continuously. and a sound cost structure. We ensure that asset and Our process innovations improve Strategy sales strategies are aligned to the division’s efficiency and ways of working. The investments increase our competitiveness in green energy solutions at This is Stora Enso in changing market conditions. our Maxau and Nymölla Mills (Target >7%) are examples of improved Stora Enso in 2019 We thrive for operational competitiveness and reduced excellence in everything we environmental impact. Sales and operational EBIT Sustainability CEO’s overview do and utilise digitalisation to EUR million % New or improved paper grades 4 000 20 How we create value improve customer experience, aiming at higher product quality safety and efficiency to fit customer needs. Many of our 3 000 15 Transformation throughout our operations. products have been developed 2 000 10 together with our customers. Divisions For instance, our new thin 1 000 5 printing paper LumiLeaf meets Consumer Board 0 0 the demands of Optical Character 2016 2017 2018 2019 Packaging Solutions Recognition (OCR), crucial for Sales optical reading of bar codes. Operational EBIT, % Biomaterials Wood Products Non-paper related new Paper businesses utilising our knowhow and infrastructure. Group Leadership Team Our paper assets and professional expertise offer Financials an excellent platform for innovation. Hylte Mill, for example, hosts the Wood Products division’s biocomposite Sustainability as a competitive advantage business and will also have a pilot plant for formed fiber. We use our sustainability Ecolabel is the official EU expertise to help our customers recognition for greener products, Commercial excellence perform better on sustainability and we are one of only a few through long-term customer measures. Our performance in companies that can claim this relationships different areas of sustainability level of ecolabel performance. Our paper assets and has been recognised by many stakeholders, for example WWF’s Further, to provide a common platform for sustainability Key focus areas in our commercial excellence include professional expertise Environmental Paper Company Index. More than 90% of our own information, Paper division has registered all its European optimising sales by product and mill through product offer an excellent paper brands have been awarded mills in the Supplier Ethical management. In addition, platform for innovation Governance one or more ecolabels, providing Data Exchange (Sedex) online we focus on pricing as well as independent third-party evidence database, used by more solid business intelligence and the commercial competence of and development of of their superior environmental than 50 000 members in over performance. The European 150 countries. our global sales network. renewable solutions. 46 Highlights of 2019 Stora Enso 2019: Strategy – Divisions: Paper Strategy Annual Report 2019 New 2019 Strategy This is Stora Enso Stora Enso in 2019 Sustainability CEO’s overview A new life for take-away − exploring recycling of paper How we create value cups for magazine paper production Transformation Stora Enso successfully tested Light as a leaf, Stora Enso’s LumiLeaf Divisions recycling used paper cups is a new thin printing paper at its Langerbrugge Mill in Consumer Board Belgium. Based on production LumiLeaf is a thin printing paper for offset printing, launched Packaging Solutions trials, Stora Enso possesses in 2019. It is a premium paper grade tailored especially for the technical capability to recycle pharmaceutical and cosmetic product information that requires Biomaterials paper cups for use in other good readability and a lot of information to be folded up in small Wood Products paper applications. Stora Enso packages. LumiLeaf is also great for making thick technical Paper is now looking into partnerships manuals and books lighter to transport. for the collection and sorting of Group Leadership Team used paper cups to ensure that this high-quality fiber material is Financials captured and given a second life. Read more about the trial New 2019 PrimaPlus Launched in 2019, PrimaPlus has already been received with Governance enthusiasm. It is a lightweight uncoated paper that combines the gloss and brightness of PrimaPress, but is bulkier. It is an excellent alternative to lightweight coated papers, with a pleasant touch and feel. 47 Main focus Stora Enso 2019: Strategy – Divisions: Paper Strategy Lyreco – a true partner in renewable Annual Report 2019 materials throughout the business and targets Lyreco is a worldwide distributor of office supplies for 2020 and workplace products, active in 42 countries on four continents. As an office supplies distributor, Lyreco wants to foster sustainable practices in the workplace. Lyreco therefore has a special responsibility to provide its customers with products that are resource-efficient, Strategy renewable and ethical. Safety – aiming at “Lyreco is a long-time partner in Stora Enso’s office zero accidents paper segment. In office printing papers, Multicopy This is Stora Enso Zero has been a good addition to Stora Enso’s office paper offering as it helps us to step forward in our Stora Enso in 2019 ambition to deliver carbon-neutral solutions to our Delivering Sustainability customers. We appreciate Stora Enso’s focus on and CEO’s overview innovation in renewable materials as it helps us to meet excellent customer our customers’ high sustainability requirements,” says experience – How we create value Julia Ko, Group Category Director at Lyreco. measured by net promoter score Transformation Read more about Lyreco Divisions Consumer Board Product mix Packaging Solutions and margin optimization Biomaterials Wood Products Paper Group Leadership Team Continuous improvement Financials in operational efficiency, fixed costs and variable costs, as well as working capital management to remain competitive Focused innovation and digitalisation in customer service, supply chain and operations Governance 48 Stora Enso 2019: Strategy – Group Leadership Team Strategy Annual Report 2019 Group Leadership Team 1 Johanna Hagelberg Executive Vice President, Sourcing and Logistics 2 Hannu Kasurinen Executive Vice President, Consumer Board Strategy Division. Executive Vice President, Packaging Materials Division as of 1 January 2020. This is Stora Enso 3 Markus Mannström 3 5 6 Executive Vice President, Biomaterials Division Stora Enso in 2019 4 1 2 Sustainability 4 Kati ter Horst CEO’s overview Executive Vice President, Paper Division How we create value 5 Jari Suominen Executive Vice President, Wood Products Division. Transformation Executive Vice President, Forest Division as of 1 January 2020. Divisions 6 Seppo Parvi Chief Financial Officer (CFO), Deputy Group Leadership Team to the CEO, Country Manager Finland 7 Noel Morrin Executive Vice President, Sustainability 8 Ulrika Lilja Executive Vice President, Communications Annica Bresky Financials 9 President and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) 10 Per Lyrvall Executive Vice President, Legal, General Counsel, Country Manager Sweden Karl-Henrik Sundström, CEO, was a member of the Group Leadership Team until 30 November 2019. Gilles van Nieuwenhuyzen, EVP, Packaging Solutions Division, was a member of the Group Leadership Team until 6 December 2019. David Ekberg, acting Head of Packaging Solutions Division as of 6 December 2019. Not a member of GLT. Seppo Toikka, acting Head of Wood Products Division as of 1 January 2020. Not a member of GLT. Governance Malin Bendz, EVP HR, was a member of the Group Leadership Team until 15 January 2020. 7 8 9 10 For more detailed information about the Group Leadership Team, see Governance 2019, or storaenso.com/investors/governance. Strategy Annual Report 2019 Sustainability Our sustainability work Part of Stora Enso’s Annual Report 2019 covers social, environmental, and economic responsibility throughout our value chain, with human rights integrated into everything we do. Sustainability Financials Governance Contents Strategy Annual Report 2019 We create a renewable future with sustainable Governance ......................................... 4 Strategy, governance, forestry. and stakeholders .................................. 5 Our targets ............................................ 9 Adopting the SDGs ..............................10 Sustainability Human rights .......................................12 Economic agenda ............................ 55 Customers .......................................... 56 Suppliers ............................................. 60 Investors ............................................. 64 External recognition ........................... 66 Financials Social agenda ....................................16 Environmental agenda .................... 31 Data and assurance ......................... 67 Employees and wider workforce.........17 Materials, water, and energy .............. 32 Reporting scope ................................. 68 Community ......................................... 22 Carbon dioxide ................................... 42 Data by production unit ...................... 69 Business ethics .................................. 27 Forests, plantations, and land use ..... 48 Auditor’s assurance report................. 72 Print optimised A4 The report contents have been assured by an independent third-party assurance provider Governance with a level of Limited Assurance. A level of Reasonable Assurance has been provided for our direct and indirect fossil CO 2e emissions. Download printable PDF of The GRI index is available at Stora Enso’s Annual Report 2019 storaenso.com/gri2019 Strategy Annual Report 2019 Sustainability Governance Strategy, governance, and stakeholders Our targets Sustainability Adopting the SDGs Human rights Social agenda Employees and wider workforce Sustainability at Stora Enso Community Business ethics Environmental agenda Materials, water, and energy At Stora Enso, sustainability covers the social, Carbon dioxide environmental, and economic responsibility of Financials Forests, plantations, and land use our operations. We care for people and the planet – from the forest to innovation, manufacturing, Economic agenda product use, and end-of-life, with human rights Customers integrated into all that we do. Suppliers Investors Data and assurance Reporting scope Data by production unit Auditor’s assurance report We are the renewable Governance Our raw material is Our products Our renewable products renewable, recyclable, replace fossilcontribute to a circular materials company GRI Index and fossil-free. based materials. bioeconomy. 3 Our year 2019 Stora Enso 2019: Sustainability – Our year 2019 Strategy Annual Report 2019 In 2019, we continued to innovate for a renewable future and supported our customers in meeting consumer demand for sustainable products. Here are some of the highlights of our year throughout our value chain. Sustainability Governance Working together for safety Reusing waste Integrating Stora Enso arranged a global Our utilisation rate sustainability Strategy, governance, and stakeholders Safety Week. for process residuals and finance Our targets and waste was Sustainability Stora Enso issued its first 98% Read more on page 19 Adopting the SDGs Green Bonds in February Leadership performance 2019 collecting Human rights Social agenda Sustainable forestry 100% of our wood comes 84% of our employees reported that their manager was able to create diverse teams. Enhanced culture of speaking up SEK 6 billion Read more on page 32 Read more on page 64 Employees and wider workforce from sustainable sources Our formal grievance Read more on page 20 where biodiversity values mechanism was opened to Community are secured. all stakeholders globally. Business ethics Read more on page 48 Read more on page 27 Environmental agenda Employee Materials, water, and energy volunteering 1 771 Carbon dioxide Supply chain sustainability Financials Forests, plantations, and land use We conducted three deep Combatting global warming Strengthening our human Sustainable innovations rights due diligence dives to better understand replacing fossil-based of our employees were Our CO2e emissions were specific supply chains materials Economic agenda involved in community 25% lower than the 2010 We identified development and support suppliers in investment activities base-year level. areas related to our priority improving their operations. Innovations published during Customers during working hours. human rights and defined 2019 will replace fossil-based Suppliers Read more on page 42 Read more on page 60 actions to address them. materials in lithium-ion Read more on page 22 Investors batteries, food packaging, Read more on page 12 and cosmetics packaging. Read more on page 56 Data and assurance Reporting scope CO2 Data by production unit Auditor’s assurance report Governance GRI Index Annual Report 2019 Sustainability is Strategy integrated into Sustainability our strategy and innovation work. Governance Strategy, governance, and stakeholders Our targets Sustainability Adopting the SDGs Human rights Social agenda Employees and wider workforce Community Business ethics Environmental agenda Materials, water, and energy Carbon dioxide Financials Forests, plantations, and land use Economic agenda Customers Suppliers Investors Governance Data and assurance Strategy, governance, and stakeholders 5 Reporting scope Our targets 9 Data by production unit Adopting the SDGs 10 Auditor’s assurance report Governance Human rights 12 GRI Index 5 Strategy, governance, Stora Enso 2019: Sustainability – Governance – Strategy, governance, and stakeholders Strategy Stora Enso’s strategy for growth is based on customer insights Annual Report 2019 and innovation, supported by structured processes and motivated and stakeholders employees, and underlined and encircled by sustainability. The demand for food, clothing, housing, energy, infrastructure, and consumer products continues to increase, driven by global megatrends such as population growth, urbanisation, rising incomes, The world needs a new approach to materials. and changing lifestyles. More people and more consumption mean that the planet’s resources are being stretched even further. Forests play an important role in the transition to By replacing fossil-based materials with Stora Enso’s renewable Sustainability a fossil-free, more sustainable world. solutions, we will help drive the transition from a fossil fuel consuming world into a sustainable future based on the bioeconomy. By responding to today’s challenges and demands for a greener Governance planet, we bring value to our customers, employees, investors, suppliers, Strategy, governance, and stakeholders and other stakeholders. Sustainability is central to our strategy, innovation framework, and how we support customers with renewable products Our targets Sustainability based on raw materials from sustainably managed forests. Adopting the SDGs Our Sustainability Agenda encompasses the social, environmental, and economic responsibility of our operations throughout the value Human rights chain. The agenda is based on the Triple Bottom Line framework widely used in corporate responsibility work. It addresses the ten sustainability topics identified as material to Stora Enso and our key Social agenda stakeholders: Employees and wider workforce; Community; Business Employees and wider workforce ethics; Materials, water, and energy; Carbon dioxide; Forests, plantations, and land use; Customers; Suppliers; and Investors. Community Respect for human rights is considered so integral to our long-term Business ethics success that it is an overarching theme of our Sustainability Agenda. In line with the agenda, we have set targets and defined key performance indicators (KPIs) for our sustainability work. Progress Environmental agenda is regularly monitored at Group level and via division-level business reviews. Consolidated results on our performance are reported Materials, water, and energy annually in our Sustainability report. Selected sustainability indicators Carbon dioxide are also reported quarterly in our Interim Reports. Stora Enso acknowledges the importance of the United Nations Financials Forests, plantations, and land use Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) as part of a commonly agreed global ambition to end poverty, protect the planet, and improve the lives and prospects of everyone, everywhere. Read more about our Economic agenda approach to the SDGs on pages 10–11. Customers Sustainability governance Suppliers At Stora Enso, sustainability is promoted by the Board of Directors, Investors the President and CEO (CEO), and the Group Leadership Team (GLT). The CEO holds the ultimate responsibility for the successful implementation of our sustainability strategy. Data and assurance The Board of Directors’ Sustainability and Ethics Committee oversees the implementation of our sustainability strategy and the Reporting scope ethics and compliance strategy. The committee met four times Data by production unit in 2019 and has reviewed the disclosures in this report. The main focus areas of the committee during the year are described in our Auditor’s assurance report Governance report. Governance GRI Index Stora Enso in 2019 summary is available at storaenso.com/annualreport 6 Stora Enso 2019: Sustainability – Governance – Strategy, governance, and stakeholders Strategy Stakeholder input Annual Report 2019 Materiality Sustainability governance at Stora Enso Board of Directors Sustainability and Ethics Committee Social Sustainability agenda Employees and Community Business wider workforce ethics Governance Strategy, governance, and stakeholders President and CEO Human rights Our targets Group Leadership Team Sustainability Adopting the SDGs Environmental Human rights agenda EVP Sustainability Materials, water, Carbon Forests, plantations, and energy dioxide and land use Social agenda Employees and wider workforce Community Economic Business ethics agenda Sustainability Group Council* Sustainability Environmental agenda Customers Suppliers Investors Materials, water, and energy Carbon dioxide Total Contribution * Stora Enso’s operational sustainability work is steered by our Sustainability Council, to Society (TCS) which includes members from our divisions, Sourcing and Logistics function, and Financials Forests, plantations, and land use subject matter experts from our Group Sustainability team. EVP Sustainability chairs the Sustainability Council. Members of the Council report Our Sustainability Agenda is based on the classic Triple Bottom Line model. It addresses the ten sustainability topics identified as material to Stora Enso. directly to their respective EVP. Economic agenda Customers Suppliers Investors At Stora Enso, sustainability work is led by the Executive Vice Stora Enso’s sustainability work is steered by our Sustainability programmes. Members of the GLT can be assigned appropriate President (EVP), Sustainability, who reports directly to the CEO and Council, which includes members from our divisions, our Sourcing sustainability indicators. For more information on remuneration, Data and assurance is part of the Group Leadership Team (GLT). Everyday sustainability and Logistics function, and subject matter experts from our see our Remuneration Statement. topics are managed by our Group Sustainability team together with Group Sustainability team. Chaired by the EVP, Sustainability, its Reporting scope our Human Resources, Legal, Wood Supply, and Sourcing and work involves sharing good practices and identifying longer-term Sustainability governance of joint operations Data by production unit Logistics functions, and our divisions. Each of our business divisions opportunities and challenges that may require a Group-wide Our joint operations in Brazil (Veracel) and Uruguay (Montes del Plata) has its own Head of Sustainability, who reports directly to the EVP response. The Sustainability Council met ten times during 2019. The have their own sustainability teams, and sustainability topics are Auditor’s assurance report of the division. Other key functions, such as Sourcing and Logistics, GLT is periodically informed of specific sustainability developments, regularly discussed by their boards, which include representatives Governance have sustainability organisations to support their management teams. as is the Board of Directors when appropriate, through its from their parent companies. Sustainability is also covered by The everyday implementation of Stora Enso’s Sustainability Agenda Sustainability and Ethics Committee. Stora Enso’s joint operation steering committees for Veracel and GRI Index is the responsibility of line management supported by functional Sustainability is one of the performance metrics in the Montes del Plata. In addition, Stora Enso is represented on the board experts at all levels. remuneration of GLT members through Short Term Incentive of its equity-accounted investment company Tornator in Finland. 7 We are creating a renewable Stora Enso 2019: Sustainability – Governance – Strategy, governance, and stakeholders Strategy Annual Report 2019 future in the bioeconomy. Sustainability Structured sustainability processes Our Sustainability Policy describes our overall approach Governance to sustainability. At the same time, our code of conduct – Strategy, governance, and stakeholders the Stora Enso Code – and other policies and guidelines on specific sustainability topics further elaborate our approach, while also guiding Our targets Sustainability our employees in their everyday work. As an example, our internal Adopting the SDGs Sustainability Assessment checklist ensures that sustainability is considered in all research and development initiatives and the Human rights development of new products. The checklist was developed based on existing sustainability policies, guidelines, and instructions, and it highlights the consideration of sustainability impacts throughout Social agenda a product’s life cycle – from sourcing to end-of-life. Employees and wider workforce Our policies and guidelines are available at storaenso.com/ sustainability. Community Business ethics Stakeholder engagement Open dialogue with our key stakeholders is crucial if we are to successfully identify concerns, global trends and market Environmental agenda expectations. Our stakeholder engagement work is based on both structured and ad hoc interaction, as well as regular surveys on Materials, water, and energy topics such as customer and employee satisfaction and investor Carbon dioxide expectations. We also obtain important information through formal grievance channels. Engaging with stakeholders on social media Financials Forests, plantations, and land use is important for us in understanding their opinions and concerns locally around our units, as well as on a divisional and Group level. We actively monitor social media discussions and respond, where Economic agenda appropriate, to stakeholder queries through suitable channels. Our purpose and values commit us to doing business responsibly. Customers Materiality review Suppliers Truly material issues do not change annually within our operations, Other elements in our existing Sustainability Agenda were also report also covers topics considered important by stakeholders in our Investors and therefore our Sustainability Agenda and targets are set for the considered important. The results were largely in line with previous broader materiality review process. long term. To deepen our understanding of stakeholder perceptions, materiality reviews. This Sustainability report reflects these results. We also prepare our reporting in accordance with the GRI we carry out specific stakeholder surveys at relevant frequencies. We use investor and other stakeholder feedback as well as Sustainability Reporting Standards. Our reporting covers all the General Data and assurance The consolidated results from our 2017 materiality review continuous media and social media monitoring, to identify new Disclosures, as well as the topic-specific GRI Standards we deem confirmed the topics in our current Sustainability Agenda to be the or emerging topics for our annual sustainability reporting. These material. For more information, see our online GRI Content Index. Reporting scope most material for the company. The most important topics for our topics, often of high interest to certain stakeholders, may change Stora Enso supports the concept of purpose-driven disclosure Data by production unit stakeholders were: year-on-year. Through focused in-depth stakeholder consultations, (PDD) in sustainability reporting in order to address the topics most • Global warming our materiality review complements our Enterprise Risk Management important to the company. PDD draws on the concept and principles of Auditor’s assurance report • Sustainable forestry (ERM) process with a broader scope of sustainability topics than professional judgement applied in accounting and offers a step-by-step Governance • Sustainable materials and products those identified as the Group’s key financial risks and opportunities. process to help companies consider why, for whom, what, how, how • Human rights Whereas our statutory Non-Financial Reporting in the Report of the much and where to report. Through our representation on WBCSD’s GRI Index • Business ethics, and Board of Directors includes those sustainability topics that relate to Redefining Value Board we support and help develop processes and • Responsible sourcing. the Group’s key risks and opportunities, our longer Sustainability tools for PDD. The objective is to help companies prioritise in order to 8 Stora Enso 2019: Sustainability – Governance – Strategy, governance, and stakeholders Strategy disclose relevant, useful ESG (environmental, social, and governance) The Financial Stability Board’s (FSB) Task Force on Climate-related About this report Annual Report 2019 information to investors, and thus to encourage the flow of capital to Financial Disclosures (TCFD) recommends a framework for disclosing Stora Enso’s Sustainability report 2019 is structured to reflect our more sustainable companies and outcomes. So far, Redefining Value climate related risks and opportunities that goes beyond current Sustainability Agenda, with its ten elements addressed through PDD achievements include guidance on materiality and the publication practices. In 2019, Stora Enso joined the WBCSD Food, Agriculture & a common four-tier framework: of the ‘ESG Disclosure Judgement Handbook,’ launched in 2019. Forest Products TCFD Preparer Forum. The TCFD Preparer Forums bring leading companies together to develop disclosure roadmaps and Opportunities and challenges Collaboration with non-governmental organisations seek investor perspectives on TCFD disclosures, including how market Stora Enso actively cooperates with prioritised international and participants use the information. Stora Enso continues to support These sections examine the external factors and global trends non-governmental organisations (NGOs) and industry associations. Accounting for Sustainability (A4S) to promote better disclosure of currently affecting the topics included in our Sustainability Agenda. Sustainability We are involved in developing industry practices related to combatting climate risks and opportunities. A4S aims to inspire action by finance Please note that our corporate risk management assessment appears global warming, the circular and bioeconomy, sustainable forestry, leaders to drive a fundamental shift towards resilient business models in Financials 2019. human rights, and business ethics, as well as the development of and a sustainable economy. In addition to investors and regulators, Governance sustainability reporting and assurance. Examples of our collaboration leading companies are also communicating their support for the Our policies Strategy, governance, and stakeholders during 2019 can be found below and in the relevant sections of recommendations through Statements of Support by Accounting for this report. Sustainability (A4S). For more information, see page 44. These sections set out the strategies and policies we use to address Our targets Sustainability key opportunities and challenges. Adopting the SDGs How we work Human rights Significant stakeholder groups for Stora Enso include: • Consumers These sections describe the processes, procedures, and systems we • Customers deploy to realise our strategies and policies. Social agenda • Employees Employees and wider workforce • Forest owners Progress • Policy makers Community • Investors These sections report on our performance during 2019. Business ethics • Local communities • Media External assurance • NGOs This report has been assured by an independent third-party provider Environmental agenda • Partners and suppliers with a level of Limited Assurance. Given our commitment to combat • Trade unions global warming and related emission data reliability, a level of Materials, water, and energy Reasonable Assurance has been provided for our direct and indirect Our fiber-based materials fossil CO2e emissions (Scope 1 and 2). For more information on Carbon dioxide are renewable and recyclable. assurance, see page 72. Financials Forests, plantations, and land use In 2019, Stora Enso actively collaborated with international organisations including: Economic agenda Stora Enso engages with people and communities all over the • Science Based Targets initiative, page 42 Customers world through its operations, sales, and supply chains. We have • The Ellen MacArthur Foundation, page 34 a range of positive financial, social, and environmental impacts • The Prince of Wales’s A4S Accounting for Sustainability, Suppliers on society, such as direct and indirect employment, taxes and page 65 Investors dividends, and products providing renewable alternatives to • The Prince of Wales’s Corporate Leaders Group (CLG), page 45 non-renewable materials. For more information about how we • Transparency International, page 28 create value and contribute to society, see Strategy 2019. For • UN Global Compact, page 68 Data and assurance details on Stora Enso’s annual tax footprint in the countries we • We Mean Business Coalition, page 45 operate, see Financials 2019. • World Business Council for Sustainable Development Reporting scope Stora Enso continues to explore ways to define and report (WBCSD), pages 7, 10, 14, and 34 Data by production unit on the monetary value associated with the company’s non• World Green Building Council, page 45 financial sustainability impacts and actions. • WWF, pages 49 and 52 Auditor’s assurance report Governance GRI Index 9 Our sustainability targets and key performance indicators (KPIs) Stora Enso 2019: Sustainability – Governance – Our targets Strategy Annual Report 2019 Key performance indicator (KPI) 2019 2018 2017 Targets Progress Human rights Implementation of Human Rights due diligence programme Development areas Eight highest 88% of the human Actions to address the development areas In progress mapped against the priority human rights actions to be completed by the end of 2020 highest priority human rights defined completed and rights 100% resolved1 Employees and wider Total Recordable Incident (TRI) rate2 7.0 6.1 7.4 5.3 milestone by the end of 2019 Not achieved Sustainability workforce New milestone will be communicated in the Interim Report for Q1 2020 Governance Leadership Index3 83 83 81 85 by the end of 2022 In progress Strategy, governance, and stakeholders Community % of working hours and in-kind in community investments (CI)4 46% 50% 43% 70% by end of 2023 while also increasing In progress the total CI Our targets Sustainability Adopting the SDGs Business ethics Code of Conduct Index3 84 85 83 Positive trend Not achieved Human rights Social agenda Materials, Number of significant environmental incidents5 9 8 10 Zero significant incidents Not achieved water, and energy Employees and wider workforce Materials: Process residuals utilisation rate (%)6 98% 98% 98% Maintain the high utilisation rate of 98% Achieved Community Business ethics Water: Total water withdrawal per saleable tonne of board, pulp, 61 56 56 Decreasing trend Not achieved and paper (m3/tonne) Water: Process water discharge per saleable tonne of board, pulp, 29 26 26 Decreasing trend Not achieved and paper (m3/tonne) Environmental agenda Energy: Reduction in electricity and heat consumption per saleable -2.9% -3.6%7 -3.9%7 -15% by the end of 2020 from a 2010 Not achieved Materials, water, and energy tonne of board, pulp, and paper (kWh/tonne) base-year Carbon dioxide Carbon dioxide Reduction in CO2 equivalents per saleable tonne of board, pulp, -25% -18% -21% -31% by the end of 2030 from a 2010 In progress and paper (kg/tonne) base-year Financials Forests, plantations, and land use Forests, % of the lands owned or managed by Stora Enso that are in wood 98% 96% 97% Maintain the high coverage level of 96% Achieved Economic agenda plantations, production and harvesting covered by forest certification schemes and land use Customers Suppliers % of supplier spend covered by our Supplier Code of Conduct 96% 95% 95% Maintain the high coverage level of 95% Achieved Suppliers Investors 1 Stora Enso carried out a Group-wide Human Rights Assessment during 2014. 2 Number of incidents among our own employees per one million hours worked. 5 Environmental incidents involving a non-compliance with environmental legislation Data and assurance Action plans to address the findings were defined during the first half of 2015. Including joint operations Veracel and Montes del Plata. or a permit, or a significant stakeholder concern related to environmental performance. At the end of 2017, process for completion was in place for three Group-level 3 Measured in the annual employee survey. For more details, see page 41. Reporting scope actions, but the completion was carried forward into 2018. 4 New KPI implemented in 2019. Excluding joint operations. Community investments cover 6 Utilisation rate for process residuals excluding, for example, tall oil, turpentine, and wood chips. cash donations, employee working hours for voluntary community work, and in-kind. 7 Calculation principles for electricity and heat consumption were revised during 2019. Data by production unit The figures for 2018 and 2017 have been restated for comparability. Auditor’s assurance report Governance GRI Index 10 Adopting the Sustainable Development Goals Stora Enso 2019: Sustainability – Governance – Adopting the SDGs Strategy Annual Report 2019 The seventeen United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) 2030 address social and economic development issues on a global scale, each with their own set of related targets. All sectors of society, including businesses, are encouraged to work and collaborate on these goals. For business to deliver its contribution, the SDGs must be integrated into company agendas and business strategies. Sustainability Integrating the SDGs into our strategy Our priority SDGs Governance In 2018, Stora Enso’s Group Leadership Team confirmed the SDGs Stora Enso supports all seventeen SDGs, and the following three goals were identified as the most strategic to our business: Strategy, governance, and stakeholders most strategic to Stora Enso’s business: SDG 12, 13, and 15. These are the goals that we have the biggest impact on, and to which our Our targets Sustainability KPIs and targets contribute. Adopting the SDGs In 2019, we participated in the preparation of the SDG Sector SDG 15 Roadmap as part of our co-chairing of the Forest Solutions Group Life on land Human rights (FSG) at the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD). The roadmap describes the forestry sector’s current level of alignment with the SDGs and identifies the key impact opportunities Social agenda and actions that the sector should take. The Forest Sector Roadmap Employees and wider workforce was launched at the United Nations high-level political forum in New York City in July 2019. SDG 13 Community Climate action In this chapter, we outline our key impacts in relation to our most Business ethics strategic SDGs. Stora Enso recognises that it has both positive impacts that contribute to these targets but also negative impacts that it needs to mitigate. Scaling up positive and minimising Environmental agenda negative impacts from our operations and value chain is the key to SDG 12 our contribution. Responsible Materials, water, and energy Our reporting on the sub-targets of our priority SDGs is in consumption Carbon dioxide a separate online appendix. and production Financials Forests, plantations, and land use Economic agenda Customers Suppliers SDG 12 – Responsible and recyclable materials. With safe and intelligent packaging, we and discharges that account for our greatest negative impacts related Investors consumption and production can extend product shelf-life and design right-sized packaging for to SDG 12. We work continuously to reduce emissions and discharges Our operations are based on renewable raw smaller households to help reduce food waste. We actively work from our operations through Best Available Technologies (BAT), our materials and sustainable forest management, with our customers to improve material efficiency and decrease the management systems, and our environmental targets. Data and assurance which contribute to responsible consumption environmental impact of our products and related processes. Our current key Group sustainability target in relation to SDG 12 and resource use. According to the Confederation of European Paper Industries drives the utilisation of process residuals and waste at our production Reporting scope Our wood and fiber-based products help (CEPI), Europe’s overall Paper for Recycling (PfR) recycling rate was units, as measured as a process residuals utilisation rate. Data by production unit to replace fossil-based materials in society. We promote the circular 71.6% in 2018. By focusing on EU countries with collection rates bioeconomy with new and innovative products. We are investing below 60%, Stora Enso and the paper industry are actively supporting Target: Performance in 2019: 98% 98% Auditor’s assurance report in innovation and R&D and increasing sales in new applications, best practices while these countries establish sustainable collection Governance products and services. For more information about our new products, systems. At the same time, circular design facilitating recyclability is see page 59. part of our innovation and product development agenda. (ongoing target) GRI Index Our offering helps to reduce food waste, which is one of the Our mills promote material efficiency and enable circular resource use sub-targets for SDG 12, with packaging that is based on renewable such as PfR as a raw material. Our operations also generate emissions Read more in the Materials, water, and energy, and Customers chapters. 11 Stora Enso 2019: Sustainability – Governance – Adopting the SDGs Strategy SDG 13 – Climate action avoided emissions by product substitution and forest sequestration. Annual Report 2019 Global warming entails physical challenges and Read more about our product substitution potential and total climate opportunities relating to forests and plantations impact in Strategy 2019. due to changing patterns of temperature, wind, We actively reduce the energy intensity of our operations – and in and rainfall, which can all be expected to impact many places also our dependency on fossil fuels. As the first in our our operational environment. Well-managed industry, we set ambitious science-based targets in 2017 for reducing forests and plantations can make entire our greenhouse gas emissions by 31% from operations per tonne ecosystems more resilient to negative impacts, and even benefit from of board, pulp, and paper produced compared to a 2010 base-year, the positive effects. Trees in sustainably managed forests absorb and engaging with our customer-facing staff and suppliers on global Sustainability carbon dioxide (CO2) from the atmosphere and together with woodwarming. We contribute to raising awareness of climate action, as based products act as carbon storage. global warming is a central topic in our stakeholder communications. Global warming has been identified as one of the Group’s Governance key financial risks and opportunities. Stora Enso is committed to Target: Performance in 2019: Strategy, governance, and stakeholders Our targets the implementation of the recommendations from the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures. –31% –25% Sustainability Our products help our customers and society at large to reduce Adopting the SDGs CO2 emissions by providing low-carbon alternatives to solutions based on fossil fuels and other non-renewable materials. During Read more in the Carbon dioxide, Forests, plantations, and land use, Human rights 2019, we worked to calculate our total climate impact including and Customers chapters. Social agenda Employees and wider workforce Forests are key to global sustainability Community Business ethics SDG 15 – Life on land of tools to ensure this, and to guarantee the sustainability of each To ensure the forest sector continues to grow in line with Through the forests we own or manage, part of the forest management cycle. These tools include forest the SDGs, the World Business Council for Sustainable the responsible sourcing of wood, as well as certification and third-party traceability systems. Development’s Forest Solutions Group (FSG) in consultation Environmental agenda our broader influence on forest management As wood is our most important raw material, our Group’s key risks with key stakeholders published the Forest Sector SDG practices, we have a direct and substantial ability cover forests and land use. Roadmap in 2019 to help the sector navigate the challenges Materials, water, and energy to drive positive change and make a significant Our current Group sustainability target in relation to SDG 15 is and unlock the opportunities that lie ahead. Carbon dioxide contribution to SDG 15. Well-managed forests to maintain the high coverage of forest certification in our owned or “The forest sector is in a unique position to significantly and plantations can make entire ecosystems more resilient to managed land for wood production and harvesting. influence the global response to many of the challenges that Financials Forests, plantations, and land use negative impacts, and even benefit from the positive effects. In sit at the heart of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), addition to global warming, biodiversity loss due to unsustainable Target: Performance in 2019: in particular Climate change (SDG 13), Life on Land (SDG 15) Economic agenda land use is a global challenge that highlights the need to conserve natural ecosystems. Sustainable forest management safeguards forest health and 96% 98% and Sustainable Production and Consumption (SDG 12),” says Filippo Veglio, Managing Director at the WBCSD. The Roadmap presents specific actions that forest sector Customers (ongoing target) productivity, helps combat global warming, and protects biodiversity companies can take to ensure forests continue to thrive in Suppliers while securing the long-term availability of our renewable resources. 2030 and beyond, while providing low-carbon, renewable, and Investors All roundwood, chips, sawdust, and externally purchased pulp recyclable solutions to everyday needs. supplied to our mills come from sustainable sources. We use a range Read more in the Forests, plantations, and land use chapter. “In addition to outlining what the sector can do, the Roadmap provides a platform for continued dialogue and aims Data and assurance to inspire and foster collaboration within the sector and across sectors to ensure the potential is realised at the required scale Reporting scope (SDG17),” Veglio says. Data by production unit As a leading company and co-chair of the FSG, Stora Enso actively contributed to the development of the Roadmap by Auditor’s assurance report sharing best practices and providing content expertise and Governance insights throughout the 18-month development process. GRI Index Download the full document at wbcsd.org 12 Stora Enso 2019: Sustainability – Governance − Human rights Strategy Annual Report 2019 We identified development areas related Human rights to our highest priority human rights and defined actions to address them. Our human rights work is guided by international principles and standards, local regulation, and our Opportunities and challenges Sustainability company values of ‘Lead’ and ‘Do what’s right’. Proactively responding to global expectations We always strive to ensure that human rights are respected in all our Governance operations and activities. Many of the human rights challenges we Strategy, governance, and stakeholders face are deeply rooted in local society and can only be effectively addressed through a long-term commitment and close cooperation Our targets Sustainability with global and local stakeholders. Adopting the SDGs The UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights highlight that companies have an ongoing responsibility to respect Human rights human rights, even where government actions and regulatory frameworks are inadequate. Compliance with these principles requires companies to conduct human rights due diligence Social agenda procedures to identify, assess, and remedy the human rights risks and Employees and wider workforce impacts of their operations, products, and services. In addition, new legislation is being explored and developed in numerous countries Community to address human rights due diligence by companies, with modern Business ethics slavery being one widely covered aspect. Stora Enso supports human rights regulation that puts companies on an equal standing. Environmental agenda Our policies Materials, water, and energy Embedded in our strategy Carbon dioxide Human rights are integrated into our Sustainability Agenda, which is aligned with the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. Financials Forests, plantations, and land use Relevant Stora Enso policies on human rights include: • Stora Enso Code – our code of conduct that expresses our respect for human and labour rights. Economic agenda • Supplier Code of Conduct – imposes strict contractual Customers requirements on our suppliers regarding human rights. • Human Rights Policy – sets out our commitment to fully respect Suppliers human rights throughout our operations and in all relationships Investors involving Stora Enso and expresses our respect for international human rights instruments. Data and assurance Human rights are also a fundamental part of several internal policies and guidelines such as our Environmental Guidelines, Diversity Reporting scope Policy, and our Minimum Human Resources Requirements for Data by production unit labour conditions. Auditor’s assurance report How we work Governance Systematic assessment of human rights impacts GRI Index Our commitment to respect human rights covers all our operations, including our employees, contractors, suppliers, and neighbouring 13 Stora Enso 2019: Sustainability – Governance − Human rights Strategy communities. We require that human rights risks and impacts are work in dialogue with local communities to maintain good relations, or contributed to adverse human rights impacts. Where violations Annual Report 2019 taken into account throughout our operations, including investment and to understand the potential social impacts of our operations. For are committed by third parties with links to Stora Enso through our decisions related to mergers, acquisitions, and divestments. Our more information, see page 24. operations, products, or services, we strive to use our influence investment guidelines stipulate that environmental and social risks In southern Laos, in the Saravane and Savannakhet provinces, together with the relevant stakeholders to ensure that those impacts and impacts, including those related to human rights, must be duly our trial eucalyptus plantations are located near culturally and are remedied. For example, our 50/50 joint operation Veracel in identified, assessed, and addressed prior to approval in projects with ethnically diverse villages. It is essential for us to engage in dialogues Brazil has worked closely with landless movements and authorities business-critical risks. in a culturally appropriate way, based on informed consultation and for several years to find and implement solutions to land distribution participation, and to obtain community consent for our projects. disputes. Veracel has also helped stakeholders understand their FPIC is integrated into land identification and acquisition processes, rights to various services, including access to legal support. For Sustainability Stora Enso’s key tools for human rights due diligence which are implemented together with local communities and more information, see page 25. authorities. Together with partners, we have developed various FPIC Access to grievance mechanisms is one of Stora Enso’s Continuous or periodic monitoring with tools to ensure that communities understand the information that is highest priority human rights. Our formal grievance mechanism, Governance • Stora Enso Code shared with them, and regularly train our employees in community formerly open to employees in all units and external stakeholders Strategy, governance, and stakeholders • Business Practice Policy engagement and consultation. We also continue to enhance gender in selected locations, was opened to all stakeholders globally in • Minimum Human Resources Requirements for inclusion in land acquisition processes and community consultation 2019 to further improve access to anonymous reporting of potential Our targets Sustainability labour conditions meetings, which is an important part of FPIC. non-compliance. The channel enables any stakeholder to report Adopting the SDGs • Supplier Code of Conduct instances where their rights may have been infringed, or where they Human rights • Safety standards and tools for all units Access to remedy and grievance channels have observed potential violations of the Stora Enso Code, including • Grievance mechanisms In accordance with the UN Guiding Principles on Business and those related to human rights. This service is independently Human Rights and our own Human Rights Policy, Stora Enso is administered by an external service provider. For more information, Project-specific human rights due diligence with committed to remedy situations where our activities have caused see page 29. Social agenda • Investment guidelines Employees and wider workforce • Environmental and social due diligence for mergers and acquisitions Community • Environmental and Social Impact Assessments (ESIAs) Business ethics • Community consultations, including Free, Prior, and Informed Consent (FPIC) • Sustainability Assessment checklist for innovation projects Environmental agenda Materials, water, and energy Environmental and Social Impact Assessments (ESIAs) Carbon dioxide We conduct ESIAs for new projects that could directly or indirectly cause significant adverse effects in local communities. Such projects Financials Forests, plantations, and land use include board, pulp, paper, or sawmills built on greenfield sites, industrial scale plantation projects, and any large-scale investments in or expansions of existing facilities. Economic agenda An important element of any ESIA involves assessing the Customers operational context from a social impact perspective, including human rights, and establishing dialogues with local residents, members of Suppliers local organisations, experts, and other stakeholders. This is done Investors through interviews, meetings, workshops, and public hearings. ESIA results give us valuable information on how local communities may be affected by changes in their socio-economic situation and any Data and assurance impacts on cultural heritage, while also setting out implications for community health and safety. Reporting scope Data by production unit Community consultations Respecting human rights in land acquisition and management is one Auditor’s assurance report of our priority human rights. Community consultations, including Free, Governance Prior, and Informed Consent (FPIC), continue to be a key element in our human rights due diligence and forestry operations in Brazil, GRI Index Uruguay, China, and Laos, especially concerning land leasing and indigenous peoples’ rights. Our forestry employees in Guangxi, China, Community consultations are an important part of our human rights due diligence as they support mutual understanding and build trust. 14 Stora Enso 2019: Sustainability – Governance − Human rights Strategy We have also established grievance channels in local languages Annual Report 2019 for communities and other external stakeholders associated with our How our business impacts people plantations and mill in Guangxi, China. We encourage anyone with concerns to call our anonymous hotline number, write to us, visit us, When Stora Enso grows and harvests trees, makes renewable or talk to our field personnel. Stora Enso’s employees are trained to products, transports materials, or works with suppliers, it has distribute information about our operations in local villages, and to an impact on people. Due diligence is the key to understanding duly process any grievances, even in villages not engaged in any kind how we can benefit local communities, minimise the risk of of business relationship with the company. negative impacts, and also be prepared to right any wrongs. Similar local grievance channels exist for our project in Laos, and “It’s our responsibility to understand the impacts our Sustainability our joint operations Veracel in Brazil and Montes del Plata in Uruguay. business may have on people. Respecting human rights is not In Laos, Stora Enso works with communities to raise awareness of a complicated concept. It’s about treating people with decency villager rights and the channels they can use if concerns arise. and respect and asking ourselves ‘Does this feel like the right thing Governance to do?’,” says Ylva Stiller, Human Rights Director at Stora Enso. Strategy, governance, and stakeholders Reporting on our performance Stora Enso reports on its human rights work annually. We also follow Our targets Sustainability the legal requirements of the UK and, as of 2019, the Australian Adopting the SDGs Modern Slavery Acts. Our annual Slavery and Human Trafficking Read the full article at storaenso.com/sustainability Statement, which covers the requirements of both Acts, is available at Human rights storaenso.com/sustainability. We also follow developments in national legislation to ensure we are compliant with all regulations. In 2019, Stora Enso was one of the first companies to sign For several years, Stora Enso has been monitoring labour rights in Social agenda Progress the WBCSD’s CEO Guide to Human Rights, in which leading its bagasse supply chain in the United States to ensure that working Employees and wider workforce companies in the field of human rights encourage their peers to hour schedules do not have adverse impacts on contractor health and Updated human rights due diligence take action. We also signed the guide’s Finland-specific version, safety. For more information, see page 63. Community While we respect and consider all human rights important, our highest which was published by the Finnish corporate responsibility Business ethics priority human rights remain the primary focus of our work: network FIBS. During the year, we also joined a campaign calling for Forced labour • Health and safety human rights due diligence legislation in Finland, led by the Finnish Our commitment to combat modern slavery is expressed in our • Fair employment conditions NGO Finnwatch. Human Rights Policy and the Stora Enso Code. We take action to Environmental agenda • Forced labour In 2019, we further clarified how human rights are connected to prevent all forms of modern-day slavery, including forced labour and • Freedom of association the other topics of our Sustainability Agenda. The related table can human trafficking, in our operations and supply chains. For more Materials, water, and energy • Non-discrimination and non-harassment be found at storaenso.com/sustainability. information about how we manage potential forced labour and human Carbon dioxide • Land and natural resource rights acquisition and management trafficking, see our annual Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement. • Grievance mechanisms Actions related to our highest priority human rights in 2019 Financials Forests, plantations, and land use • Children’s rights (relevant to the forest sector). included: Freedom of association We strive to avoid activities that could interfere with the right of our We continued to develop our human rights due diligence programme Health and safety employees, on-site contractors, and our wider workforce to freedom Economic agenda in 2019. As a first step, to strengthen our strategic focus, we mapped It is our goal that all employees, on-site contractors, and our wider of association and to engage in collective bargaining. Customers our Group function processes to identify development areas related to workforce return home safely from a healthy workplace every Stora Enso signed a global framework agreement with the labour our highest priority human rights. Actions to address the findings are day. For detailed information on our progress in health and safety, unions IndustriAll, UniGlobal, and BWI in 2018. Stora Enso and the Suppliers expected to be completed by the end of 2020. In addition, we began including accident rates, absenteeism, and safety observations, unions held one collaboration meeting in 2019. For more information, Investors updating our internal guidelines to better align them with our eight see pages 19–21. see page 18. priority human rights. In Guangxi province, China, we continued to focus on road safety in rural areas in 2019. For more information, see page 24. Non-discrimination and non-harassment Data and assurance Our joint operation Montes del Plata in Uruguay works closely with Stora Enso does not tolerate any form of discrimination or harassment its transportation contractors to raise awareness of and improve road and we encourage anyone who experiences or witnesses such Reporting scope safety. For more information, see page 26. behaviour to report it. Fostering a culture of diversity and inclusion Data by production unit at Stora Enso addresses these themes and raises awareness within Fair employment conditions the company. For detailed information about our progress in diversity, Auditor’s assurance report Due diligence helps us We set strict standards for our operations to ensure fair employment inclusion, and gender equality, see pages 20–21. Governance conditions for all employees, on-site contractors, and our suppliers’ GRI Index understand and address employees. This covers topics such as wages, working hours, and overtime compensation. For detailed information about Land and natural resource rights acquisition and management We strive to ensure that when acquiring and managing rights to use our impacts on people. compensation, see pages 20–21. land and natural resources connected to our operations and supply 15 Stora Enso 2019: Sustainability – Governance − Human rights Strategy chains, the rights of stakeholders are respected, with a special focus For several years, Veracel has successfully cooperated with the NGO (Private) Ltd. (BSP). The divestment of BSP was completed in 2017 Annual Report 2019 on those of indigenous people. Childhood Brasil to combat child abuse and exploitation in the local but the school programme, together with Stora Enso’s funding for With the acquisition of Swedish forest assets, Stora Enso is municipalities of Belmonte, Porto Seguro, Santa Cruz de Cabralia, and ITA, will remain in place until 2023 when the youngest children will a major forest owner in Sweden (see page 51), and we recognise our Eunápolis. The goal is to improve the capacity of the municipalities complete compulsory primary school education as required by the responsibilities regarding the rights of Sámi people living in areas to handle cases of child abuse and adolescent violence through state of Pakistan. that are located on our lands. Stora Enso maintains good relations strengthening public policies and providing training to professionals. and cooperation with indigenous Sámi communities in Sweden and The outcomes are documented in municipal plans. The municipal Providing training in human rights Finland. Over the years, we have, for example, established special plan for Belmonte was completed and delivered to the relevant In 2019, Stora Enso supported WWF Russia in providing three human agreements on land use with several Sámi communities in Sweden. administrative bodies in 2019. rights-related training sessions to various forest sector actors. The Sustainability For more information on our land use and wood procurement, see Stora Enso has a Group-wide internal guideline for the responsible goal was to raise awareness of effective interaction with indigenous pages 48–54. use of children’s images and for organising photoshoots involving people and local communities, and to introduce key concepts such as In Brazil, Veracel, our 50/50 joint operation with the Brazilian children. This guideline was updated in 2019. Free, Prior, and Informed Consent (FPIC). For more information about Governance company Suzano, manages a pulp mill, eucalyptus plantations, and In 2019, Stora Enso continued to support six schools in our long-standing cooperation with WWF Russia, see page 52. Strategy, governance, and stakeholders related logistics in southern Bahía State. In 2019, Veracel continued cooperation with the Pakistani non-governmental organisation In Brazil, Veracel continues training, auditing, and follow-up its dialogue with the landless movements and the Bahía State Idara-e-Taleem-o-Aagahi (ITA) in Pakistan. These schools were procedures related to its supplier code of conduct. Additional human Our targets Sustainability government to address land distribution disputes, and its ongoing set up in 2015 to provide education for the 640 children identified rights training is provided to employees working as guards for Adopting the SDGs implementation of special agreements in response to this issue. Read as child workers in the supply chain of our previous 35% minority Veracel’s security service provider when they begin employment and more on page 25. holding in the equity accounted investment Bulleh Shah Packaging then every two years. Human rights Veracel maintains good relations with local indigenous villages, and supports educational, infrastructure, and cultural programmes for 30 Pataxó and three Tupinambá communities. Some of these communities Social agenda are calling for the expansion of the Barra Velha Indian Reserve. Employees and wider workforce The extension would include hundreds of land properties, including 3 219 hectares of land acquired by Veracel before the indigenous peoples Community first made claim to the land. At the end of 2019, this case was still being Business ethics processed by the regional federal court. Veracel remains committed to fully comply with the court’s eventual decision. Environmental agenda Grievance mechanisms Our grievance hotline is available to all employees, on-site Materials, water, and energy contractors, suppliers, and any other external stakeholders that seek Carbon dioxide access to a confidential grievance mechanisms and effective remedy. For detailed information about our grievance channels and reports Financials Forests, plantations, and land use received through them in 2019, see page 29. Children’s rights (relevant to the forest sector) Economic agenda In accordance with the Convention of the Rights of the Child, children Customers younger than 18 years old enjoy special protection of their human rights. Stora Enso supports the Children’s Rights and Business Suppliers Principles developed by UNICEF, Save the Children, and the UN Investors Global Compact, and considers six of these principles directly material to its business: principles 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, and 7. Stora Enso’s work on children’s rights and business is integrated into our Data and assurance implementation of the UN Guiding Principles of Business and Human Rights framework. In practice, this means that we strive to: Reporting scope • contribute to the elimination of child labour; Data by production unit • ensure decent work for young workers, parents, and caregivers; • ensure the protection, health, and safety of children in all Auditor’s assurance report operations and activities; Governance • ensure that marketing and advertising respects children’s rights; and • prevent or minimise risks and impacts on children’s rights due GRI Index to environmental impacts or the acquisition and management of rights to land and natural resources. Our 50/50 joint operation Veracel supports schools and educational programmes for local indigenous and landless people in Bahía, Brazil. Annual Report 2019 We are a Strategy responsible Sustainability employer, neighbour, Governance Strategy, governance, and stakeholders Our targets and business Sustainability Adopting the SDGs Human rights Social agenda Employees and wider workforce Community partner. Business ethics Environmental agenda Materials, water, and energy Carbon dioxide Financials Forests, plantations, and land use Economic agenda Customers Suppliers Social agenda Investors Data and assurance Reporting scope Employees and wider workforce 17 Data by production unit Community 22 Auditor’s assurance report Governance Business ethics 27 GRI Index 17 Stora Enso 2019: Sustainability – Social agenda – Employees and wider workforce Strategy Annual Report 2019 TRI rate Leadership Index 7.0 TRI = Total recordable incident 83/100 Sustainability Opportunities and challenges Governance Strategy, governance, and stakeholders Change through people Stora Enso continues its transformation journey as the renewable Our targets Sustainability materials company. Engaged and motivated employees and a capable Adopting the SDGs organisation will enable us to deliver our business strategy. The development of capabilities in customer insight, innovation, Human rights and operational efficiency, as well as the ability to utilise new technologies will be critical for our future success. We need to ensure we have competent and engaged employees when managing our Social agenda employee turnover and the demographic structure of our workforce Employees and wider workforce in various markets. This will require careful workforce planning and responsible leadership. To be successful and to promote a safe Community working culture, we need to develop our leadership, organisation, Business ethics competencies and processes. Employing people comes with a responsibility to respect human rights. This means, for example, that we must provide a safe Environmental agenda workplace free from harassment and discrimination, and support wellbeing at work. Materials, water, and energy Carbon dioxide Our policies Financials Forests, plantations, and land use Motivated employees and a capable organisation Stora Enso’s People Agenda guides our efforts in creating engagement and motivation among our employees, and to build a Economic agenda capable organisation that can help us realise our business strategy. Customers Key areas in our People Agenda include: strategic workforce planning, talent acquisition, talent management, competence development, Suppliers leadership development, performance management, people ethics, Investors and health and wellbeing. Read more in Strategy 2019. Stora Enso’s Health and Safety Policy defines the objectives for our safety management as well as our governance model on how we Data and assurance manage health and safety topics in practice and how we integrate Reporting scope Data by production unit Employees and wider workforce them into annual planning and reporting. Other key documents applied in our people and safety management include our: • Stora Enso Code – our code of conduct Auditor’s assurance report People are our most important asset when converting our competence in • Supplier Code of Conduct Governance renewable materials into customer benefits. We promote inclusion, diversity, • Minimum Human Resources Requirements for labour conditions • Global Framework Agreement GRI Index and knowledge sharing and are committed to ensuring that our workplaces • Diversity Policy are healthy and safe. 18 Stora Enso 2019: Sustainability – Social agenda – Employees and wider workforce Strategy How we work Annual Report 2019 Working together for safety Everybody home safe, every day Stora Enso’s goal is to provide an accident-free workplace. At Stora Enso, we believe that safety starts at the top but that we Encouraging a company-wide safety culture means that everyone is are all responsible for working safely. In 2019, the importance of responsible for making every workday healthy and safe – from our top safety was reinforced during a company-wide Safety Week, with management and throughout the company. plenty of different safety activities in Stora Enso units, divisions Safety management at Stora Enso is based on international and offices. standards such as OHSAS 18001 and ISO 45001 but our processes “Our ambitious but reachable goal is zero accidents in Sustainability go beyond these requirements. Responsibility for implementing each all operations,” says Noel Morrin, Executive Vice President safety tool and programme in our units lies with line management, Sustainability at Stora Enso. “We have come far by halving our supported by local staff and OHS professionals. total accident rate in the past five years – and compared to a few Governance Safety and industrial hygiene are managed by the Group decades ago, the improvement is tremendous. But we still have Strategy, governance, and stakeholders Sustainability function. Occupational health including wellbeing is a lot of work to do.” managed by our Group Human Resources function. Stora Enso’s Our targets Sustainability Safety Steering Group directs strategic long-term planning at Group Adopting the SDGs level and oversees the work of the Safety Management Team, which develops and aligns Group-wide safety programmes. Our countryHuman rights level OHS networks in Finland, Sweden, Germany, and China also share good practices and organise training to enhance our safety procedures and competencies. Local OHS committees and working Social agenda groups at our units provide forums for raising safety-related topics Employees and wider workforce and suggestions. Read the full article at storaenso.com/sustainability Our units report monthly on safety performance data, including Community incidents, absenteeism statistics, and safety observations. Stora Enso Business ethics also monitors the number of safety incidents among on-site, logistics, and forestry contractors. regular feedback. Our annual employee performance appraisals are units with improvement needs will establish action plans to become Environmental agenda Safety training for contractors an important component of our performance management. fully compliant with the requirements. The next self-assessment will Stora Enso’s approach to safety extends to contractors, suppliers, be conducted in 2021. Materials, water, and energy and on-site visitors. We encourage everyone to give feedback Diversity During the year, we continued to address areas in the Global Carbon dioxide and provide ideas on how to further improve safety. Additionally, We believe diversity strengthens our competitiveness and we aim Framework Agreement that we have signed with the labour unions we promote safety among our contractors and suppliers through to reflect the societies in which we operate. Diverse working teams IndustriAll, UniGlobal, and BWI to strive for a working environment Financials Forests, plantations, and land use a dedicated e-learning called Safety Trail. We also emphasise the enable us to explore different perspectives and challenge our way where all our employees are treated with respect and in a fair manner. importance of safety by asking suppliers for information on their safety of thinking, contributing to better decision-making. To benefit from Stora Enso and the unions held one collaboration meeting in 2019 performance in our tendering process. For more information about our diverse working teams, we need inclusive work environments that to review Stora Enso’s practices related to the agreement, including Economic agenda supplier approach, see pages 60–63. We also cooperate closely on respect and appreciate individual differences and allow us to embrace labour rights and our Supplier Code of Conduct. Customers safety work with our joint operations in Brazil and Uruguay. the diversity of backgrounds and perspectives of our employees. Dimensions such as skills and experiences, gender, age, cultural Support in restructuring situations Suppliers Leadership – driving company culture background, and personality are important to Stora Enso when we In organisational restructuring situations, it’s important that the Investors Leadership is a key enabler of our strategy as it is the strongest strive for diversity. impacted employees understand the reasons for the change. Our driver for performance, wellbeing and company culture. Our culture ambition is to support leaving employees in finding work elsewhere. is based on our values ‘Lead’ and ‘Do what’s right’, which we expect Fair working conditions Support initiatives are often developed on a country or local level to Data and assurance our leaders to embrace and demonstrate through their actions We care for all our employees and are committed to fully respecting best suit the local circumstances and requirements. Every employee and behaviour. We measure our progress on leadership by using human rights throughout our operations. All Stora Enso units are is treated with respect and has access to support throughout the Reporting scope a Leadership Index, which is based on the responses of our annual expected to work systematically to ensure that employees are treated restructuring process. Data by production unit employee survey. with respect and fairness. Units should also comply with a set of minimum requirements for labour conditions in order to create an Auditor’s assurance report Performance management environment where employees are both motivated and able to perform Leadership is a key factor in Governance Performance management is an important part of engaging and their work. These requirements address areas such as working hours, GRI Index motivating our employees. We set and communicate clear targets for our employees, help them understand how they contribute to our basic employee rights, working conditions, and non-discrimination. Based on a self-assessment conducted in 2019, the vast majority of strengthening our position as the company’s success, and provide development opportunities and our production units are in compliance with these requirements, and renewable materials company. 19 Stora Enso 2019: Sustainability – Social agenda – Employees and wider workforce Strategy Health and wellbeing when a contractor was killed during an equipment maintenance including first aid training, emergency rescue training with local Annual Report 2019 We believe that the foundation for physical and mental health activity in Poland in March. An occupational fatality occurred at fire departments, ergonomics training, as well as health and and wellbeing in the workplace is based on people management, Ždírec sawmill in Czech Republic in November involving one of wellbeing activities. organisation of work, and an inclusive work environment that our own employees. The investigation is ongoing. In addition, In 2019, Stora Enso also implemented a global programme promotes both physical and mental health. All these factors impact a fatality occurred at Skutskär Mill in Sweden in November involving to ensure greater consistency in visitor safety inductions at all the health and wellbeing, including stress levels, of our employees and a customer’s contractor employee. An investigation by the authorities Stora Enso units. need to be addressed to create wellbeing in the organisation. In 2019, concluded that the fatality was due to a fall from the top of a tanker. During the year, Stora Enso developed and implemented a safety we added a new Wellbeing Index to our annual employee survey. The The learnings from these tragic events will be acted upon at audit programme to verify the implementation of our safety standards index measures inclusion and organisational factors impacting health Stora Enso. and tools. The programme promotes a common approach, content, Sustainability and wellbeing in the workplace. During the year, we also launched Regarding occupational health, Stora Enso measures illness and methodology for safety audits. During the year, 43 internal safety inclusion workshops which our teams throughout the company related absenteeism with a focus on encouraging units to invest in audits were conducted throughout Stora Enso units. The audits are expected to carry out to raise understanding of topics such as proactive health management. In 2019, illness-related absenteeism highlighted common areas of concern such as the ‘Logout-Tagout’ Governance inclusive behaviour and diversity in the workplace. amounted to 3.2% (3.0%) of total theoretical working hours. procedure, risk assessments, permits to work, and the operating of Strategy, governance, and stakeholders For Stora Enso, developing trust with employees is critical when heavy machinery. Progress it comes to safety issues and discussing safety incidents. In 2019, Our targets Sustainability we introduced the ‘Fair and Just’ programme, which provides a Adopting the SDGs Enhancing safety performance transparent process to manage the outcome of safety investigations. Stora Enso reports incidents and accidents using the international It also serves as a tool to facilitate the review and discussion of safety Human rights Occupational Health and Safety (OHSA) definitions when reporting Total incidents and other unsafe behaviour. The aim of the programme is to Recordable Incident (TRI) and Lost-Time Accident (LTA) rates. This allows create a blame-free working environment and a learning organisation the reported rates to be better aligned with international standards and to to ensure that all our employees are treated in a fair and just manner. Social agenda enable future benchmarking with peers and companies in other sectors. Stora Enso also encourages employees and contractors to identify Employees and wider workforce Since 2018, Stora Enso has used the Total Recordable Incident (TRI) rate and report unsafe situations or actions. In 2019, the average number instead of the Lost Time Accident (LTA) rate as its main key performance of safety observations reported per employee was 12.7 (10.5). Community indicator (KPI). The TRI rate gives a more comprehensive picture of safety In November 2019, Stora Enso arranged its first Group-wide Business ethics performance as it also includes less severe accidents. Safety Week. The theme was ‘Working together for safety’ and In 2019, our TRI rate increased to 7.0 (6.1 in 2018). Despite our the aim was to engage our management, employees, contractors ambition to improve our safety performance, the milestone for 2019 and the surrounding community to cooperate in safety actions. Environmental agenda was not achieved. There was a fatal accident at a Stora Enso unit Safety Week resulted in a range of activities across all divisions, Materials, water, and energy Carbon dioxide Financials Forests, plantations, and land use Total recordable incident rates (TRI)1 2 Lost-time accident rates (LTA)1 2 Number of incidents among our own employees Number of lost-time accidents among our own per one million hours worked employees per one million hours worked Economic agenda 25 12 20 10 Customers 8 Suppliers 15 6 Investors 10 4 5 2 0 0 Data and assurance 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Reporting scope China 2.4 2.8 1.4 1.4 0.9 China 0.8 0.9 1.0 0.8 0.8 Finland 16.6 19.0 11.5 9.7 13.0 Finland 7.8 5.0 8.7 8.0 11.0 Data by production unit Poland 4.2 5.1 4.4 3.5 4.5 Poland 3.9 3.0 4.1 3.5 4.3 Auditor’s assurance report Sweden 17.4 19.4 12.0 9.73 8.8 Sweden 6.6 8.4 8.53 7.13 6.3 Governance Group 11.0 11.7 7.4 6.1 7.0 Group 4.7 4.4 5.23 4.6 5.6 1 For Stora Enso employees, including joint operations. Figures for the four largest countries in terms of the total number of employees. GRI Index 2 Since January 2017, Stora Enso has applied Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) definitions in the reporting of TRI and LTA rates. Due to this change, the 2015 and 2016 figures are not comparable with 2017–2019 figures. 3 Recalculated due to additional data after annual reporting for 2018. We encourage everyone to share feedback and ideas on how to improve safety. Leave blank 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Leave blank 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 20 Stora Enso 2019: Sustainability – Social agenda – Employees and wider workforce Strategy Other focus areas in our safety management work during Annual Report 2019 2019 included: • Establishing a formal programme to increase the sharing of learnings from previour accidents within the company and to prevent similar accidents from happening again. The learnings are discussed in different forums throughout the company, such as in the Group Leadership team, Safety Steering Group, Safety Management team, and division and mill management teams. In 2019, Stora Enso also adopted a root cause analysis methodology Sustainability at some of its mills. • Reviewing resources for safety management and developing the competence of our safety professionals. The review resulted Governance in additional time allocated to the safety work at certain units. Strategy, governance, and stakeholders Contractor accidents Our targets Sustainability Stora Enso’s reporting of contractor accidents has been developed Adopting the SDGs in recent years. Since 2017, contractor accidents are reported in separate categories for on-site accidents and logistics incidents, Human rights to allow better comparability with statistics from other companies. Since 2018, proactive measures have been taken when identifying statistically more accidents with some contractors than others. Social agenda Read more on pages 62–63. Employees and wider workforce Leadership and performance management Community Stora Enso’s KPI for leadership is the Leadership Index, which is Business ethics calculated based on our annual employee survey. Our target is to achieve an index of 85/100 by 2022. In 2019, the Leadership Index remained stable at 83 (83). The response rate to our employee survey Environmental agenda remained high at 86% (89%). We continuously invest in the development of our leaders through Materials, water, and energy programmes such as ‘Lead Through People’ which targets all Carbon dioxide managers in the company. The Lead Through People programme supports our leaders in developing their leadership skills to drive Financials Forests, plantations, and land use performance, wellbeing, and company culture. Since 2015, To benefit from diverse working teams, we encourage inclusive work environments that respect and appreciate individual differences. Economic agenda Customers approximately 3 000 managers have participated in this programme. five female and six male members in 2019. In the 2019 report by Suppliers During the year, we continued the implementation of Lead Through Equileap, which assessed gender balance and equality among 3 000 Employee distribution by country¹ Investors People training and launched three new modules covering the areas public companies, Stora Enso was ranked number 29 globally and Finland 25% of change management, customer focus, and innovation. number 1 in Finland. During the year, Stora Enso also received the China 21% All Stora Enso employees should be involved in at least one formal highest scores in the FINDIX report, which examined the diversity of Data and assurance Sweden 18% performance appraisal meeting with their manager each year. In 2019, management teams and board of directors in 89 Finnish companies. Poland 9% 90% (91%) of our employee survey respondents stated that they had Reporting scope Russia 5% taken part in a performance review during the past twelve months. Living wages Austria 4% Every other year, the global non-profit organisation BSR supports Data by production unit Germany 4% Employee diversity us in defining and calculating living wages in relevant locations. Auditor’s assurance report Czech Republic 4% When asked about diversity in the annual employee survey, 84% In 2019 we reviewed the current situation in our production units Governance Other Europe 9% (83%) of our employees reported that their management was in Brazil, China, Estonia, Laos, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Russia, Other countries 1% able to create diverse teams. As for gender diversity among our and Uruguay. The results of this study indicate that our units’ GRI Index 1 Excluding senior management, 76% were male and 24% female at the end minimum compensation in these countries is above the living employees of our 50%-owned joint operations Veracel in Brazil and Montes del Plata in Uruguay. of 2019 (80% and 20% in 2018). The Group Leadership Team had wages defined by BSR. Legend Value in % Exact value Finland 25% 25 XX% 21 Stora Enso 2019: Sustainability – Social agenda – Employees and wider workforce Strategy Compensation and equal opportunity1 Our lowest wages compared to local minimum wages1 Annual Report 2019 Ratio of highest individual compensation Female employees’ compensation Ratio of our lowest wage to the local minimum wage to median compensation2 compared to male employees 3 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Brazil2 1.1 1.2 China 106 89 91% 101% China3 1.5 1.2 Finland 13 15 95% 97% Estonia 1.0 1.1 Poland 19 24 94% 87% Laos 1.2 1.2 Sweden 42 43 99% 99% Latvia 1.6 1.1 Sustainability 1 Figures for the four largest countries in terms of the total number of employees. 2 The ratio shows how many times larger the highest individual annual total compensation, including incentives, is compared to median compensation. Lithuania Poland 1.5 1.2 1.4 1.0 3 Calculated using weighted averages based on gender comparisons within each country’s employee categories as applicable. The China 2018 figure based on sample due to data Russia 1.4 1.5 availability and thus not comparable with the 2019 figure. Governance Uruguay4 1.5 1.6 1 In most relevant locations based on internal assessment and human rights risks, Strategy, governance, and stakeholders compared to minimum wage levels set at national, state, or provincial level as applicable. The ratio shows how many times larger our lowest wage is compared to Our targets Share of female employees at Stora Enso Sustainability the local minimum wage. 2 Including employees of our 50%-owned joint operation Veracel. Ratio for 2018 Adopting the SDGs 2019 2018 recalculated for comparability. Human rights Total number of employees at year-end1 24 390 25 880 3 Due to variations in regional minimum wages, the ratio is calculated as a weighted Share of women among all employees (%) 26% 26% average for Stora Enso’s units in China. The weighting is based on the units’ total number of employees. Share of women among senior managers (%) 24% 20% 4 Including employees of our 50%-owned joint operation Montes del Plata. Ratio for Women in the Group Leadership Team 5 out of 11 5 out of 12 2018 recalculated for comparability. Social agenda Women in the Board of Directors 2 out of 9 3 out of 9 Employees and wider workforce 1 Excluding employees of our 50%-owned joint operations Montes del Plata and Veracel. Community Business ethics Employee distribution and turnover1 China4 Finland Poland Sweden Group total Environmental agenda Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Materials, water, and energy Number of employees 2 120 (49%) 2 190 (51%) 1 240 (20%) 5 000 (80%) 420 (20%) 1 690 (80%) 1 070 (21%) 4 030 (79%) 24 390 Carbon dioxide Up to 30 640 820 110 550 80 310 150 510 18% Financials Forests, plantations, and land use 31–50 1 460 1 310 680 2 520 230 930 520 1 570 52% 51 and over 20 60 450 1 930 110 450 400 1 950 29% Number of hires2 580 (45%) 700 (55%) 70 (23%) 230 (77%) 30 (27%) 80 (73%) 120 (27%) 320 (73%) 2 860 Economic agenda Up to 30 340 440 30 70 10 30 50 130 50% Customers 31–50 240 260 40 140 20 40 60 150 44% 51 and over 0 0 0 20 0 10 10 40 5% Suppliers Number of Investors leavings3 1 080 (46%) 1 260 (54%) 60 (20%) 240 (80%) 40 (24%) 130 (76%) 60 (23%) 200 (77%) 3 670 Up to 30 580 810 0 20 10 30 10 40 46% 31–50 490 440 40 80 20 60 30 70 41% Data and assurance 51 and over 10 10 20 140 10 40 20 90 13% Employee Reporting scope turnover 51% 58% 5% 5% 11% 8% 5% 5% 15%4 Data by production unit 1 Figures for the four largest countries in terms of the total number of employees. Rounded to the nearest 10. 2 Hires: numbers of permanent employees joining the company. Excludes hires due to acquisitions. Auditor’s assurance report 3 Leavings: numbers of permanent employees leaving voluntarily or due to restructuring, retirement or death. Excludes leavings due to divestments. Governance 4 The employee turnover in China is mainly due toStora Enso China Packaging units where packaging manufacturing operations are relatively labour intensive and the number of employees vary according to seasonality. The high employee turnover in China Packaging units also has a significant impact on the Group employee turnover. The Group employee turnover excluding China Packaging units was 6% in 2019 (7% in 2018). GRI Index 22 Stora Enso 2019: Sustainability – Social agenda – Community Strategy Annual Report 2019 Total voluntary community investment Community We depend on resilient and thriving local communities EUR 2.7 million wherever we operate, and strive to be a good corporate citizen. Sustainability Opportunities and challenges Benefitting local communities Governance Companies can improve the quality of life of local communities Strategy, governance, and stakeholders through active corporate citizenship. Over the long term, such voluntary investments can also generate business benefits for Our targets Sustainability the company in the form of community support and competitive Adopting the SDGs advantage. Stora Enso’s operations depend heavily on resilient local Human rights communities for a motivated and competitive workforce, as well as the sourcing of our most important raw material – wood. Therefore, these communities must be able to thrive economically, socially, and Social agenda environmentally in the long term. Employees and wider workforce While Stora Enso is a significant employer and taxpayer in many communities, our operations also generate emissions and our tree Community plantations influence land use in ways that may adversely impact Business ethics the rights of those communities. Our socio-environmental impacts must be managed responsibly in order to minimise negative impacts, maximise our positive influence, and maintain a constructive Environmental agenda community dialogue that ensures our long-term license to operate. Materials, water, and energy Our policies Carbon dioxide A robust framework for our community work Financials Forests, plantations, and land use Policies that guide Stora Enso’s community relations include our: • Sponsorship and Donations Policy • Community Investment Guidelines Economic agenda • Volunteering Guideline – published in 2019 to encourage our Customers employees to volunteer during their working hours to support charitable causes. Suppliers • The Stora Enso Code – our code of conduct Investors • Business Practice Policy • Human Rights Policy • Tax Policy Data and assurance Our joint operations in Brazil and Uruguay have each developed Reporting scope formal procedures for their respective community work to reflect Data by production unit Stora Enso’s requirements. Auditor’s assurance report Governance GRI Index 23 Stora Enso 2019: Sustainability – Social agenda – Community Strategy How we work Voluntary community investment by investment area1 Annual Report 2019 Managing social responsibility In many locations, Stora Enso benefits the local economy as a major Education Environment Resilient local communities2 18% 6% 66% employer, taxpayer, and partner to local entrepreneurs. We apply precautionary management actions to mitigate and remedy potential adverse environmental and social impacts on neighbouring communities. These include: Emergency relief Other • Environmental and Social Impact Assessments (ESIAs), which are Sustainability conducted for all new projects that could cause significant adverse effects in local communities. For more information, see page 13. 5% 5% • Due diligence assessments, which are realised as part of Governance Stora Enso’s acquisition and investment processes prior to any Strategy, governance, and stakeholders critical decision. These assessments cover relevant factors related to environmental, social, and business practices. They play Our targets Sustainability an important role in building our understanding of local operating Adopting the SDGs environments, while also helping us to develop constructive relationships with stakeholders such as governments, business Human rights partners, local communities, and NGOs. Any subsequent investment decision must consider our ability to mitigate and manage identified adverse impacts. Social agenda • Third-party certified management systems at our production units Employees and wider workforce that apply international standards such as ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 and ISO 50001. Community • Third-party forest management certification for our own forestry Business ethics operations and suppliers, such as the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC1) and the Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification (PEFC). Environmental agenda • When necessary, restructuring processes and closure of operations realised in cooperation with the authorities to Materials, water, and energy support the communities through related changes, and to create Carbon dioxide opportunities for new business initiatives. Financials Forests, plantations, and land use 1 Total community investment including cash, working hours, and in-kind as defined in the LBG framework. Including 50% of joint operations Veracel in Brazil and Montes Community investment del Plata in Uruguay. 2 Resilient local communities include LBG framework areas of Economic development, Social welfare, Healthy lifestyle and Arts and Culture. In addition to implementing mandatory and regulated contributions to communities, voluntary community investment is an essential Economic agenda part of building a sustainable future for our business. Stora Enso Encouraging employee volunteering The difference is explained by the nature of community investment Customers defines voluntary community investment as contributions that involve In 2019, Stora Enso published Group-wide Volunteering Guidelines projects in Brazil and Uruguay, where programmes tend to be longerengaging with local communities beyond our core business and legal to enable Stora Enso employees to volunteer eight hours of paid work term and often cover wider societal issues with investment needs. Suppliers responsibility. This is carried out in the form of voluntary donations of time annually to charitable causes. Our aim is for this volunteering to be In 2019, the proportion of community investment related to Investors cash, working hours, and in-kind for non-profit purposes or non-profit aligned with at least one of our three community investment focus areas. Education was 18%, while the proportion of those related to community organisations in accordance with the LBG framework, Environment and Resilient local communities was 6% and 66%, which is a globally recognised framework for measuring such activities. Progress respectively. Total volunteered hours amounted to 8 372 and the Data and assurance Stora Enso’s community investment projects are managed and funded number of employees involved in community investment activities locally to ensure that the community is the main beneficiary. Measuring our contribution during working hours amounted to 1 771 in 2019. The total Reporting scope Our Group-wide framework for community investment builds on Our key performance indicator (KPI) for community investment, contribution to communities as defined by LBG was EUR 2.7 million Data by production unit the local community work Stora Enso has carried out over many years. developed in 2019, monitors the proportion of inputs made in working (EUR 2.7 million), including 50% of the community investments by During 2019, we defined the Group’s community investment focus hours or in-kind compared with cash donations, excluding our joint our 50/50 joint operations in Brazil and Uruguay. The total number Auditor’s assurance report areas: Education, Environment, and Resilient local communities. These operations, with continued growth in our community investment of Stora Enso’s voluntary community investment projects was 441 Governance focus areas will guide our community investment going forward. over time. Our target is to increase the proportion of working (453 in 2018), including those facilitated by our joint operations. We are also starting to more systematically monitor the impact our hours and in-kind contributions to 70% by 2030, excluding joint GRI Index operations may have on local communities. Our goal is to ensure that operations. In 2019, this proportion amounted to 46% (50% in 2018). we have a positive impact on the communities near our operations. When including joint operations, the proportion was 22% (24%). 1 Stora Enso Communications’ FSC® trademark license number is FSC-N001919 24 Stora Enso 2019: Sustainability – Social agenda – Community Strategy Annual Report 2019 In many locations, Stora Enso is a major employer, taxpayer, and a partner to local entrepreneurs. Sustainability of the forestry sector. Activities include inspiring young people to pursue a career in forestry and funding relevant research projects. Stora Enso has supported the foundation since 1995. Governance Strategy, governance, and stakeholders Guangxi, China Stora Enso leases 81 000 hectares of land in Guangxi province, China, Our targets Sustainability of which 27 000 hectares (29 000 hectares in 2018), or 34% (36%) of Adopting the SDGs the total area, is social land leased from village collectives, individual households, and local forest farms. Stora Enso’s field staff and social Human rights engagement officers speak regularly with local communities impacted by our plantations and mill, and along our transportation routes, to inform them about our operations and to enable them to express their Social agenda concerns and contribute ideas. Our aim is to identify and understand Employees and wider workforce concerns and risks, so that we are prepared to properly mitigate and remedy them when necessary. For more information about our Community community consultation work, see page 13. Business ethics In 2019, our Beihai Mill’s community work included sponsoring the reconstruction of a basketball court, donating supplies to local school children, and organising a beach clean-up. Our forestry Environmental agenda operations in Guangxi continued the socio-economic profiling and mapping of local villages. The goal is to identify the needs and Materials, water, and energy characteristics of the communities near our operations to be able to Carbon dioxide maximise our positive impacts and mitigate any negative ones. Our forestry operations also run community projects to address Financials Forests, plantations, and land use Together with local schools, Stora Enso employees organised four volunteering activities in Europe in 2019 to plant trees in their communities. challenges in rural villages near our plantations. During 2019, Stora Enso supported 19 community projects that benefitted over 40 000 people. The projects had three main focus areas: drinking water and sanitation, Economic agenda Communities are important stakeholders In 2019, employees from Stora Enso units in Finland and Austria road construction and safety, and sports and cultural development. Customers During 2019, we engaged with the communities close to our volunteered their working hours in four tree planting events with the In 2019, an agroforestry programme, managed together with operations in various ways, including agroforestry programmes, international NGO Plant-for-the-Planet and local schools. The goal the local government and a rural cooperative to alleviate poverty in Suppliers educational support, and volunteer activities. was to educate school children on the role of forests in combatting the area, piloted a poultry farm on part of Stora Enso’s plantations. Investors global warming, and to offer them an opportunity to take climate About 23 000 free-range chickens are kept on 3.4 hectares of our Europe action by planting tree seedlings. Over the course of the year, a total plantation land, providing profit for the cooperative which supports In Europe, the aim of Stora Enso’s community investments is to of 2 100 seedlings were planted during nine planting events around over a thousand residents from 487 households. Some residents also Data and assurance support local communities in enhancing their attractiveness, with the world. receive direct income through employment at the farm. the aim of benefitting our existing and potential future employees. Employees at Stora Enso units regularly organise and participate in In 2019, Stora Enso invested in two drinking water projects in Reporting scope To grow and support our potential labour pool, we participate in nature clean-up events together with local communities. In 2019, six neighbouring rural communities. Since 2017, similar projects have Data by production unit programmes that promote education and youth work training, and such events were organised in Europe, with 130 Stora Enso employees benefitted nearly 2 800 people and enabled a significant reduction provide internships and public research opportunities. We also strive participating. The amount of collected waste was measured and in the instances of water-related illnesses and the consumption of Auditor’s assurance report to promote local workforce diversity by participating in programmes reported where feasible, according to type, count, and weight. bottled water in the communities. Governance that facilitate the employment of disadvantaged people and refugees. In 2019, we continued to voluntarily support the Finnish Forest Our forestry operations also continued to focus on road safety by To contribute to the everyday vitality of communities, we also Foundation (FFF) by matching voluntary donations from forest owners, providing defensive driving skills to drivers, trialling GPS monitoring GRI Index financially support local associations, including sports clubs and which are linked to the purchase of wood. These donations contribute of potential aggressive driving, and developing a checklist for regular cultural activities. to FFF’s community investment funds that focus on the social aspects vehicle inspections. 25 Stora Enso 2019: Sustainability – Social agenda – Community Strategy Veracel, Brazil Continuous dialogue with the landless people’s movement Veracel signed a new agreement with social landless movements Annual Report 2019 Veracel, our 50/50 joint operation owns 213 000 hectares of land in Illegal land invasions of private property are a long-running challenge in 2018 to complement the earlier Sustainable Settlements Initiative. Bahía, Brazil, of which about half has been reserved for rainforest in Brazil that has affected various actors who use land, such as mining In line with the agreement, Veracel sold 3 300 hectares, under market restoration and conservation and about 79 000 hectares are planted companies and farming businesses. In 2019, some stakeholders price, and donated 225 hectares of previously occupied lands to the with eucalyptus trees. Veracel also leases 10 000 hectares of land. criticised Veracel for its land use and evictions of landless people from movements and related associations in 2019. In turn, as agreed, the Supporting income generation and employment in local communities its lands that were illegally occupied. Some areas have been occupied movements will leave 800 hectares of Veracel’s land. are the top priorities of Veracel’s sustainability agenda. since 2008. While Veracel is not the root cause of the problems that Since 2012, Veracel has voluntarily given up approximately 20 000 The Pact for the Development of the Discovery Coast, in force landless people face, it aims to be part of the local solution without hectares of land to benefit landless people. By the end of 2019, 469 since 2012, where the government committed to reimburse the taking on the role of the state. hectares of productive land owned by Veracel remained occupied by Sustainability ICMS tax credits paid by Veracel in return for investments in local Veracel strives to maintain continuous dialogue with these movements not involved in the Sustainable Settlement Initiative or in development programmes, was completed in 2019. Veracel continues movements and supports land allocations through the Sustainable the new agreement. Veracel will continue to seek repossessions of to support two local cassava processing plants, which were originally Settlements Initiative, launched in 2012. In 2019, the initiative the remaining occupied areas through legal processes. Stora Enso Governance projects within the Pact, to help them become and remain successful, continued to provide farmland and technical and educational support also reports on the occupied areas in the Group’s Interim Reports. Strategy, governance, and stakeholders sustainable business units. to hundreds of families to improve their incomes. The Sustainable For information on Veracel’s engagement with indigenous Settlements Initiative is facilitated by the Government of the State of Supporting local livelihoods Our targets Sustainability communities, see page 15. Bahía, and is conducted in cooperation with the National Institute of Veracel also supports local livelihoods by making some of its land Adopting the SDGs Colonisation and Agrarian Reform (INCRA) and the representatives of available to family farmers, and by providing training and technical six officially recognised landless people’s social movements: support. The Agrovida and Roça do Povo farming programmes, Human rights • The Movement of Landless Workers (MST) for instance, aim to support local farmers, produce food for local • The Federation of Agricultural Workers (Fetag) communities, and trade surplus production in regional markets. • The Movement for the Struggle for Land (MLT) During 2019, the two initiatives assisted a total of 192 families Social agenda • The Peasant Resistance Movement (MRC) cultivating 168 hectares of land in total. Employees and wider workforce • The Front of Free Workers (FTL) To safeguard biodiversity and to help provide additional • The Association Unidos Venceremos (Aprunve) income to local families, Veracel allows beekeepers to keep hives Community on company land. It also provides training in beekeeping as well Business ethics The social movements involved in the initiative have pledged to leave as technical and material support. During 2019, a total of 161 areas occupied since July 2011, while Veracel has agreed not to seek to beekeepers, mostly working through local cooperatives, produced repossess areas occupied before this date. The initiative relates to a total 114 tonnes of honey. Environmental agenda area of approximately 16 500 hectares of Veracel’s lands designated for In 2019, Veracel also continued to support local fishing communities the settlements to be purchased from the company by INCRA. near Belmonte. The cooperation includes support for establishing Materials, water, and energy Veracel continues to support the transition of families from these local fisheries, providing infrastructure for their commercialisation, Carbon dioxide settlements to more permanent residencies on the same land, as the and offering safety training. A shellfish collection programme empowers legal processes regarding their claim to the land are resolved over women by creating a profitable livelihood, developing the women’s Financials Forests, plantations, and land use Fighting fire with knowledge in China time. In 2019, this support included preparing the land for farming professional skills, and improving their opportunities to take part in purposes, supplying seeds, as well as building and renovating community decision-making. During the year, Veracel cooperated with Qing Ming (‘Tomb-sweeping festival’) is a national holiday nurseries, flour mills, and cocoa production units. The goal is to partners to renovate and expand a production unit for storing, cooking, Economic agenda in China and includes the tradition of setting off fireworks gradually transfer full responsibility of the area to the families by 2022. and selling the shellfish, and to provide training in entrepreneurial Customers and burning paper money. This tradition is particularly strong in a part of Guangxi where Stora Enso manages Suppliers eucalyptus plantations. Investors This year, Stora Enso employees were able to join forces with the local government in order to help raise awareness Voluntary community investment by country1 Voluntary community investment projects by country2 EUR 2.7 million By number of projects (441 projects in total) about the prevention of fires. As a result, forest fires were Data and assurance reduced by 90%. Brazil 50% Finland 34% “The biggest learning for us is that preventing a problem is Finland 19% Sweden 23% Reporting scope always better than fixing one. Working together – internally but Sweden 15% Russia 10% also with so many external stakeholders – is the best long-term China 5% China 8% Data by production unit solution,” says Tao Shan, Head of Land Management at Uruguay 3% Austria 4% Auditor’s assurance report Stora Enso’s forest operations in China. Austria 3% Brazil 4% Governance Other 5% Other 17% GRI Index Read the full article at storaenso.com/sustainability 1 Total community investment includes cash, working hours, and in-kind as defined in the LBG framework. Including 50% of joint operations Veracel in Brazil and Montes del Plata in Uruguay. 2 Including joint operations. Legend Value in % Legend Value in % Brazil 50% Finland 34% 26 Stora Enso 2019: Sustainability – Social agenda – Community Strategy students to working life and encourage them to continue their studies, Annual Report 2019 and sponsored an annual teenager entrepreneurial skills competition. Montes del Plata also supports development initiatives carried out by local community groups. The aim is to boost local social cohesion and strengthen community organisations. Montes del Plata continued to invite visitors into its tree nursery and the company-owned Bioparque M’Bopicuá environmental centre in 2019. The centre, which hosts about 2 000 visitors annually, promotes education and enables visitors to experience native wildlife Sustainability at first hand. Mitigating negative impacts from logistics Governance Montes del Plata has a long-term strategy for the safe transportation Strategy, governance, and stakeholders of wood, including annual action plans involving truck drivers, transport companies, and local communities. The company’s wood Our targets Sustainability supply is operated by approximately 680 truck drivers from different Adopting the SDGs transport companies. Montes del Plata trains all drivers before they start working for the company, organises quarterly workshops for Human rights drivers on safety and social responsibility, and follows up on safety indicators. In 2019, Montes del Plata launched an awareness raising campaign on road safety, targeted at its transport providers. Social agenda Montes del Plata, together with transport companies and their Employees and wider workforce truck drivers, also strives to raise awareness of traffic safety in the communities most severely affected by the company’s traffic. In 2019, Community this work included cooperation with 12 schools and numerous Business ethics community members. Laos Environmental agenda Stora Enso’s eucalyptus plantations in Laos have been established in a way that enables local farmers to grow rice and cash crops between Materials, water, and energy the trees. Before establishing plantations, Stora Enso makes the Carbon dioxide land safe by removing unexploded bombs dropped over Laos during the Vietnam War. Financials Forests, plantations, and land use The Bioparque M’Bopicuá, operated by Montes del Plata, promotes environmental education. It has, for example, successfully reintroduced Collared Peccaries, a mammal species extinct in the wild in Uruguay, into their natural habitat. In 2019, our village development fund continued to support local development and livelihoods in the provinces where we operate. The projects are designed together with the villagers and based on Economic agenda management. By the end of 2019, 150 fishing community members Alianzas also promotes the diverse use of Montes del Plata’s lands their needs, and they are all endorsed by the local authorities. Most Customers benefitted from Veracel’s support, including 48 women participating in for purposes such as cattle grazing and honey production. The diverse of the 2019 funding was directed to projects related to electricity the shellfish collection programme. use of land enhances local livelihoods, reduces the risk of forest fires, provision, enhancing food security, and improving water supply. Suppliers To further support the local economy, Veracel gives preference to and helps to build stronger relationships with the community. During Community consultations, including Free, Prior, and Informed Investors local businesses when sourcing goods and services. 2019, 184 farmers kept cattle on Montes del Plata’s land and 39 farmers Consent (FPIC), continue to be a key element of our operations in produced honey from approximately 6 100 beehives situated on the Laos. For more information, see page 13. Montes del Plata, Uruguay company’s land to supplement their incomes. During the year, Montes Data and assurance Montes del Plata, our 50/50 joint operation owned together with del Plata began cooperation with a national NGO to promote the the Chilean company Arauco, runs a pulp mill in Punta Pereira sustainable management of natural grasslands, which are considered Reporting scope in southwestern Uruguay, together with associated eucalyptus a conservation priority in South America. The results, including plantations mainly located in central and north-western parts of suggestions on soil improvements and developing cattle grazing, will Data by production unit Auditor’s assurance report the country. Montes del Plata owns 190 000 hectares and leases be shared with Alianzas producers. Over 65 000 hectares of grassland The diverse use of land 72 000 hectares (Alianzas programme) of land. The Alianzas coexist with Montes del Plata’s plantations. supports local livelihoods Governance programme provides additional income for local farmers by enabling Montes del Plata also seeks to benefit local communities by fostering GRI Index them to integrate eucalyptus plantations into their farms on suitable lands. At the end of 2019, 475 (426 in 2018) farmers participated in the local employment opportunities, maximising local hiring, participating in mentoring programmes, and promoting entrepreneurship among young and helps build stronger programme with 53 000 (48 500) hectares planted with eucalyptus. people. During 2019, the company supported projects that introduce relationships with communities. 27 Stora Enso 2019: Sustainability – Social agenda – Business ethics Strategy Annual Report 2019 Code of conduct index Business ethics We believe that fostering an ethical company culture strengthens employee engagement and helps them make the right decisions. 84/100 Sustainability Opportunities and challenges Governance Strategy, governance, and stakeholders Broad ethical approach beyond compliance Stora Enso operates in locations including high-risk markets that Our targets Sustainability offer good business opportunities but may also entail exposure to Adopting the SDGs serious risks relating to topics such as corruption and fraud. The US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the UK Bribery Act, and the French Human rights Loi Sapin II are all examples of effective legislation that governments and authorities have introduced to combat corruption. These laws place high demands on companies’ controlling mechanisms, but Social agenda they also help to build accountability and trust among stakeholders. Employees and wider workforce Competition law is also an area where lawmakers and competition authorities are increasingly active in their efforts to preserve Community a competitive economy. Complying with international trade sanctions Business ethics may also require companies to take new measures. Digitalisation brings great opportunities for organisations but it also presents challenges regarding cybersecurity and the treatment Environmental agenda of stakeholders’ personal data. Legislation such as the EU General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) sets requirements concerning Materials, water, and energy the processing of personal data, with heavy fines imposed for Carbon dioxide infringements. While compliance with laws and regulations is always the highest priority for us, we believe that adopting a wider ethical Financials Forests, plantations, and land use approach is also crucial. Our policies Economic agenda Customers Comprehensive approach to ethics and compliance Our code of conduct, the Stora Enso Code, is a single set of values Suppliers for all our employees that explains our approach to ethical business Investors practices, human and labour rights, as well as environmental values. These values are applied wherever we operate. Other policies relevant to ethics and compliance include our: Data and assurance • Business Practice Policy • Data Privacy Policy Reporting scope • Supplier Code of Conduct Data by production unit Auditor’s assurance report Governance GRI Index 28 A culture of ethical behaviour Stora Enso 2019: Sustainability – Social agenda – Business ethics Strategy Annual Report 2019 is key to our long-term success. Sustainability we actively participate in the network’s efforts to combat corruption globally and nationally. We are also a member of TI Sweden’s Corporate Supporters’ Forum. Governance Strategy, governance, and stakeholders Top-level commitment In our efforts to make Stora Enso a more value-driven organisation, Our targets Sustainability we highlight the importance of top-level commitment. All managers Adopting the SDGs in key positions are required to participate in training and make a personal commitment to the Stora Enso Code and our Business Human rights Practice Policy, and to share related information with employees in their respective organisations. In line with workshops organised for employees in managerial Social agenda positions in recent years, a dedicated ethics and compliance Employees and wider workforce workshop was arranged with the Group Leadership Team during 2019. The workshop provided training in and promoted discussions Community on ethical issues. Business ethics Training our employees We strive to ensure that Stora Enso’s employees and business Environmental agenda partners all understand what ethical behaviour is, and how they should respond to any ethical dilemmas that arise. Communications Materials, water, and energy and training are a crucial part of this work. Carbon dioxide Our employees receive Stora Enso Code training, either through an e-learning tool or through face-to-face training for those who do not Financials Forests, plantations, and land use have direct computer access. We aim to ensure that our new employees receive such training within their first month of employment. In addition, an in-depth e-learning course on anti-trust, antiEconomic agenda corruption, and other compliance related topics is mandatory for Customers all members of our Group Leadership Team, for divisional and mill management teams, and for employees dealing with competitor Suppliers contacts, purchasing, marketing, and sales. The training has been run Investors Trainings help employees and partners respond to ethical dilemmas. since 2013 and was updated in 2018 to be more interactive and to better reflect the challenges of today’s work environment. All relevant employees will be invited to complete the updated training during 2020. Data and assurance How we work Stora Enso’s Ethics and Compliance Strategy forms the basis for The Stora Enso Data Privacy Policy aims to protect the company annual action plans. The strategy has five focus areas: against risks related to breaches of data privacy, to let our employees Reporting scope Combatting misconduct on all fronts • Top-level commitment know how Stora Enso collects and uses their personal data, and to Data by production unit Stora Enso’s Ethics and Compliance function is a sub-function • Improved communication and training ensure that the privacy rights of our employees, business partners, and operating within our Legal team, headed by our General Counsel • Intensified efforts in countries with heightened concerns other stakeholders are protected. All white-collar Stora Enso employees Auditor’s assurance report who reports directly to the CEO. Our Ethics and Compliance • Developing our grievance channels are required to complete our e-learning training on data privacy. By Governance Management Committee, a governance body appointed by the • Ethics and compliance as a competitive edge. the end of 2019, 88% of white-collar employees had been trained. CEO, monitors Stora Enso’s legal compliance and ethical business During 2019, we also developed new e-learnings on the areas GRI Index conduct by following up on our Ethics and Compliance Action List. Stora Enso is represented in Transparency International’s (TI) Steering of dawn raids, trade associations, gifts and hospitality, and the The Committee met four times during 2019. Committee for Business Principles for Countering Bribery, where onboarding of critical business partners. 29 In 2019, we took several Stora Enso 2019: Sustainability – Social agenda – Business ethics Strategy Annual Report 2019 How we investigate suspected non-compliance cases actions to enhance the culture of speaking up and listening at Stora Enso. Sustainability Report received, Investigation Findings reported Proven cases can Comprehensive risk assessments on compliance reviewed, and of the reported to ECMC and BoD* lead to disciplinary, Operating in high-risk markets and entering into joint ventures can recorded circumstances legal, or other Governance entail exposure to serious risks. Our risk assessment procedures on action Strategy, governance, and stakeholders compliance cover all our units. The most significant compliance risks in our global operations relate to anti-trust and corruption. Our targets Sustainability Overall risk assessment at Stora Enso follows the Risk Adopting the SDGs Management Process and is outlined in our Enterprise Risk Management instructions. In recent years, ethics and compliance has Internal Audit and Ethics and Compliance functions are responsible for the overall process. Human rights been considered one of Stora Enso’s key risks. In 2019, our Ethics and Compliance function implemented an additional risk assessment tool * ECMC = Ethics and Compliance Management Committee as part of the Ethics and Compliance Self-Assessment Tool (T.E.S.T.). BoD = Board of Directors’ Sustainability and Ethics Committee and Board of Directors’ Financial and Audit Committee Social agenda The purpose of the additional tool is to provide a more detailed Employees and wider workforce understanding of compliance risks as well as support our Enterprise Risk Management process. Community The management and employees of our fully and jointly owned Business ethics operations in China, Brazil, and Uruguay receive training on our All potential non-compliance cases are duly investigated. Any Progress Business Practice Policy. Employees in our joint operations in Brazil findings are recorded and reviewed by the heads of our Internal Audit and Uruguay additionally receive training on their respective Codes and Ethics and Compliance functions, and reported both to our Comprehensive monitoring Environmental agenda of Conduct and Business Practice Principles, covering topics Ethics and Compliance Management Committee, and to our Board We use an index to monitor and evaluate employee perceptions of our such as human rights, environmental impacts, safety, and ethical of Directors’ Financial and Audit Committee and Sustainability and work on topics covered by our Stora Enso Code. The index is based Materials, water, and energy practices. Anti-trust guidelines designed for our joint operations are Ethics Committee. Proven cases of non-compliance can lead to on our annual employee survey responses to questions related to Carbon dioxide implemented with the help of related training globally. disciplinary or legal action. the Stora Enso Code, Stora Enso’s values, fair and equal treatment During 2019, our Ethics and Compliance team continued Our joint operations Veracel in Brazil and Montes del Plata in of employees, safety, and responsibility. The index is used as a Financials Forests, plantations, and land use to provide training on topics related to ethics and compliance Uruguay each have their own local grievance mechanisms. management tool to understand the ethics and compliance culture of in our operations globally. This training involved meetings with In 2019, a total of 57 reports received through Stora Enso’s various our different teams. After five years of continuous improvement, the local employees and managers face-to-face to gain a better grievance channels were identified as potential non-compliance index decreased by one unit to 84 in 2019 (85 in 2018). Our objective Economic agenda understanding of local ethical dilemmas, and to train local cases (68 in 2018). Based on the investigations finalised by the end of is to continue the previous positive trend by increasing our efforts in Customers personnel on key topics. 2019, proven cases leading to disciplinary action, legal action, and/ communications and training during 2020. or process improvements were identified in 26 (20) of the completed Suppliers Grievance channels investigations. In addition, 12 of the potential non-compliance cases Investors Our employees are encouraged to report suspected cases of were still under investigation. misconduct or unethical behaviour. Other stakeholders may also Based on our assessments, nine of the proven cases can be want to seek ways to raise concerns over our activities. To ensure that considered related to corruption and/or fraud (two in 2018). Seven of Breakdown of potential non-compliance cases Data and assurance rights to privacy and effective remedy are respected, we must ensure these cases resulted in employee dismissal or disciplinary process 2019 2018 that our grievance channels operate without fault and are accessible (two in 2018). Reporting scope Anti-trust 0 1 to all relevant stakeholders. Conflict of interest 4 7 Data by production unit Stora Enso uses an external service through which our employees Competitive advantage from business ethics and external stakeholders can anonymously report potential nonBeing value-driven gives Stora Enso a competitive advantage at Corruption 4 9 Auditor’s assurance report compliance cases by phone, mail, or online. This service is available a time when stakeholder interest for business ethics is growing, as Fraud 12 2 Governance 24/7. In 2019, the grievance channel was opened to all stakeholders it builds trust both within Stora Enso and with external stakeholders General human resources 26 33 globally. Our operations in China and Laos have established such as customers and potential employees. We are committed Health and safety 3 3 GRI Index internal grievance channels in local languages for stakeholders with to conducting our business ethically and strive to ensure that our Miscellaneous 8 13 inadequate knowledge of the main language. business partners are aware of and share our commitment. Total 57 68 30 Stora Enso 2019: Sustainability – Social agenda – Business ethics Strategy During 2019, we continued the work of the Divisional Compliance Annual Report 2019 Forums and the Group Function Compliance Forum to bring together the heads of key functions and divisions to assess risks, monitor compliance, and contribute to a value driven organisation. By the end of 2019, there were eight established forums in total. Our Ethics and Compliance Self-Assessment Tool (T.E.S.T.), introduced in 2015, was run once in 2019. This tool has been designed to give our divisions and functions a better overview of the progress their units are making in implementing our policies and compliance Sustainability measures, while also identifying possible gaps and risks related to compliance. In 2019, the tool was further developed to include a separate risk assessment that better identifies, measures, monitors Governance and controls the relevant risks. The results are addressed through Strategy, governance, and stakeholders the Compliance Forums with action plans subsequently developed, implemented, and monitored as necessary. Since 2018, the results Our targets Sustainability have been cross-checked between more people within each unit to Adopting the SDGs gain a deeper understanding of their reliability. Human rights Encouraging employee discussions on ethics We support our managers in discussing ethics topics in their teams by providing them with ethical dilemmas and related instructions Social agenda on amonthyl basis. We also support managers with topic-related Employees and wider workforce communication materials to facilitate the discussions. In 2019, topics included the Stora Enso Code, money laundering and tax havens, Community inclusion in the workplace, and unconscious bias in decision-making. Business ethics Compliance rules can be complicated and ensuring that all our employees know Stora Enso’s purpose, values, goals, and policies can be challenging. In 2019, our Ethics Ambassadors, consisting of Environmental agenda Stora Enso employees, continued their work in voluntarily supporting our Ethics and Compliance function by running training sessions, Materials, water, and energy clarifying our rules, and answering questions in their respective units. Carbon dioxide During the year, the Ethics Ambassadors programme was further developed to better respond to individual and organisational needs in Financials Forests, plantations, and land use the field of ethics and compliance. We provide several different communication materials to our employees to facilitate discussions and training on important business ethics topics. In 2019, we created an Ethics and Compliance Case book featuring several compliance cases to serve as reference and training Economic agenda material for our employees. The example cases presented in the book Customers will help to illustrate ethics and compliance issues in practice and The power of inclusive workplaces facilitate discussions and training on important topics. Suppliers During 2019, we also began developing an artificial intelligence One of the biggest fears for human beings has always been to be Investors based virtual agent to help guide our employees in certain ethics and excluded. Today, exclusion can present itself as discrimination compliance related issues. and bullying, which are serious threats to a healthy and productive workplace. Data and assurance Enhanced compliance control processes “We are each other’s work environment: if it’s not safe, it’s Making sure that laws, regulations, and company rules are complied just as dangerous as if a machine doesn’t work properly,” says Reporting scope with, not only by us but also by our business partners, is an essential Per Lyrvall, Executive Vice President, HR and Legal at Stora Enso. Data by production unit part of our business. In 2019, we began developing a new critical “We must be ready – and feel safe – to speak up when we see third-party management tool for conducting due diligence and onboard excluding or inappropriate behaviour. But at the end of the day, it Auditor’s assurance report critical business partners to ensure better compliance control. doesn’t need to be complicated: inclusion can start with a smile.” Governance In 2019, we established a screening process when recruiting for certain top management positions at Stora Enso. The aim is to GRI Index identify potential hiring risks and make sure we hire people who live Read the full article at storaenso.com/sustainability by Stora Enso’s values. Annual Report 2019 We respect the Strategy local environment Sustainability and combat global warming. Governance Strategy, governance, and stakeholders Our targets Sustainability Adopting the SDGs Human rights Social agenda Employees and wider workforce Community Business ethics Environmental agenda Materials, water, and energy Carbon dioxide Financials Forests, plantations, and land use Economic agenda Customers Suppliers Environmental agenda Investors Data and assurance Reporting scope Materials, water, and energy 32 Data by production unit Carbon dioxide 42 Auditor’s assurance report Governance Forests, plantations, and land use 48 GRI Index 32 Stora Enso 2019: Sustainability – Environmental agenda – Materials, water, and energy Strategy Annual Report 2019 Share of biomass in Process Materials, water, and energy our internal energy production residuals utilisation rate Sustainability Stora Enso is in a unique position to drive society’s transition to a circular bioeconomy. In our operations, we always look for ways to make more from less. 82% 98% Governance Opportunities and challenges Strategy, governance, and stakeholders Reduced waste, maximum value Our targets Sustainability Global megatrends such as global warming, population growth, Adopting the SDGs eco-awareness, and urbanisation are affecting consumer and corporate decision-making around the world. We respond to these Human rights trends by developing circular products and solutions based on materials that are both renewable and recyclable. Social agenda Materials Employees and wider workforce As a renewable materials company, Stora Enso operates at the heart of the bioeconomy and contributes to a circular economy. In a circular Community economy, waste is minimised as materials are reused and recycled Business ethics to maximise environmental and financial value. The European Commission (EC) has adopted several legislative proposals within its Circular Economy Package, including the EU directive on single Environmental agenda use plastics. The objectives of these ambitions create a need for new innovations and provide business opportunities for Stora Enso. Materials, water, and energy Carbon dioxide Water Water plays a central role in Stora Enso’s production, heating, Financials Forests, plantations, and land use cooling, and cleaning processes, and in generating renewable electricity from the hydropower we purchase. We clean process water in our high-performance water treatment plants before Economic agenda discharging it back to the local environment. Sustainably managed Customers forests and plantations have a key role in maintaining natural water cycles, absorbing CO2 and therefore increasing resilience to the Suppliers impacts of global warming. We consider water in the planning and Investors management of our forest and plantation operations. Our forests and plantations need rainwater for growth, and active water management in plantations contributes to positive effects on total water balance Data and assurance as well as water storage, purity, and quality. The EU Water Framework Directive sets the objective to protect Reporting scope and enhance water resources, thereby achieving a good quality status Data by production unit for lakes, rivers, groundwater, and transitional and coastal waters. Other key directives linked to the Water Framework Directive are Auditor’s assurance report the Groundwater Directive and the Environmental Quality Standards Governance Directive. These requirements are implemented in the environmental legislative framework of each member state to which we must comply GRI Index via our environmental permits. 33 We aim to maintain product value Stora Enso 2019: Sustainability – Environmental agenda – Materials, water, and energy Strategy Annual Report 2019 for as long as possible through innovation and recycling. Our policies Sustainability Guidance throughout the supply chain Stora Enso’s policies relevant to our use of materials, water, and energy include our: Governance • The Stora Enso Code – our code of conduct guides us on issues Strategy, governance, and stakeholders related to resource use. • Supplier Code of Conduct – includes practical instructions for Our targets Sustainability Stora Enso’s suppliers, Purchasers’ Instructions, Sourcing Policy, Adopting the SDGs and Sourcing Guidelines: a guiding framework for the responsible sourcing of materials and energy. Human rights • Policy on Wood and Fiber Sourcing, and Land Management – our commitment to the responsible integration of forestry, land use, sourcing, and water stewardship into our sustainable forest Social agenda management and land use practices. Employees and wider workforce • Policy on Energy and Carbon – a policy stating our ambitions in combatting global warming. Community • Environmental Guidelines – a comprehensive overview of our Business ethics policy objectives and how we work to achieve them. How we work Environmental agenda External initiatives guide our work Materials, water, and energy We apply precautionary management actions to mitigate and Carbon dioxide remedy potential adverse impacts on the environment and people. The environmental work at our mills, including water and energy Financials Forests, plantations, and land use management and resource efficiency, is supported by third-party certified environmental management systems. All our sawmills and board, pulp, and paper mills are certified to the ISO 14001 Economic agenda environmental management system standard, along with all but one Customers corrugated packaging unit, which is expected to be certified in 2020. Our operations affect the environment but may also impact people. Keeping our employees and surrounding communities safe and healthy is a top priority for us. Using materials, water, and energy in our production affects the Suppliers environment but may also have an impact on people. At Stora Enso, Investors keeping employees and surrounding communities safe and healthy is While water is relatively abundant in most of our production announcement of a European Climate Law to be presented in 2020. a top priority. The interests of local communities and forestry operations locations, water scarcity may still impact operations locally and As an overall ambition level, the EU should achieve net zero greenhouse are respected in our approach to systematic Environmental and Social Data and assurance through our wider supply chains, as controls on pollution, recycling, gas emissions and climate neutrality by 2050. To fulfil the ambition, Impact Assessments (ESIAs) in due diligence executed in conjunction and water pricing are tightened. Occasionally, some mills have been contributions are also requested from energy intensive industries in with mergers, acquisitions, and divestments (see page 13). Reporting scope impacted by water stress in terms of availability or increased water terms of further emission reductions and providing carbon sinks. By the end of 2019, 95% of our total energy consumption was Data by production unit temperatures. We therefore consider water stewardship to be an area The Energy Efficiency Directive II sets new targets for 2030 certified to the ISO 50001 energy management system standard (95% of increasing importance. At the same time, such challenges give us that require annual energy savings of 0.8% of energy consumed. in 2018). For unit-specific information on certificates, see pages 69–71. Auditor’s assurance report opportunities to reduce costs by using water more efficiently. Additionally, the Renewable Energy Directive II sets member states The emissions generated by each of our mills are regulated Governance a binding collective target on an EU level to derive 32% of their final by the relevant authorities, with limits set through environmental Energy energy consumption from renewable sources by 2030. With its high permit processes that consider local environmental conditions, GRI Index The EU has stepped up its ambitions with the European Commission proportion of biomass-based energy, the forest industry can help stakeholders, and legislation. Compliance with legislation and proposing a ‘European Green Deal’ in 2019, which includes the the EU achieve its targets. permits is monitored by the environmental authorities and by the mill 34 Stora Enso 2019: Sustainability – Environmental agenda – Materials, water, and energy Strategy in question. Non-compliances and incidents are reported by mills to Annual Report 2019 Group management on a quarterly basis, and significant incidents are Replacing plastics with renewable materials reported immediately. For details of significant incidents and violations of environmental permits in 2019, see page 41. Stora Enso has joined the New Plastics Economy Global Environmental improvements and investments at our production Commitment to eliminate plastic waste and pollution at the source, units are driven by regional and local conditions. The EU’s Best Available led by the Ellen MacArthur Foundation. Plastic waste is a global Techniques (BAT) Reference Documents have limits for effluents and problem as it pollutes our seas and the environment, enters our emissions to air, and the BAT conclusions for pulp and paper, as well food chains, and affects our health negatively. as for medium and large combustion plants, apply to our board, pulp, “The world is running out of raw materials and fossil plastics Sustainability paper, and sawmills in Europe. The related investments are proactively come from a finite source. Using materials that are renewable means planned as part of Group investment processes. These investments fit you use an alternative that grows back. But replacing fossil-based into Stora Enso’s normal capital expenditure framework and policy. plastics with renewable materials is a journey that will not happen Governance overnight,” says Eija Hietavuo, SVP Sustainability, Stora Enso Strategy, governance, and stakeholders Contributing to the circular bioeconomy Packaging Materials. We help our customers become circular: our products are renewable, Our targets Sustainability recyclable, and in many cases compostable. We minimise waste and Adopting the SDGs resource use and aim to maintain the value of products and materials for as long as possible through product design, innovation, and Human rights recycling. When a material or product has reached its end-of-life, we promote recycling and energy recovery to create further value. Read Read the full article at storaenso.com/sustainability more in Strategy 2019. Social agenda We are a signatory to the New Plastics Economy Global Commitment Employees and wider workforce led by the Ellen MacArthur Foundation, in collaboration with UN Environment. In 2019, our progress was disclosed in the Ellen MacArthur optimising material streams are shared throughout Stora Enso by pharmaceuticals. For more information about our wood procurement, Community Foundation’s Global Commitment Progress Report. As a founding board networks focusing on environmental management, materials, Paper see pages 48–52. Business ethics member of WBCSD’s circular economy initiative, Factor10, we worked for Recycling, chemical safety, and product safety. While wood-based fibers can be recycled for 5-7 times, in some to develop the ‘CEO Guide to Circular Bioeconomy’ publication. We aim to maximise the value of our material streams and work cases over 20 times, virgin fiber is also needed in the paper recycling In 2019, Stora Enso and other member companies of the towards zero process waste. We work to achieve this through circular process. After several recycling rounds, paper fibers eventually become Environmental agenda Confederation of European Paper Industries (CEPI) launched the material flows in our value chain, while reducing our own process too short to be reused but can be burned for bioenergy, which drives 4evergreen alliance to promote fiber-based packaging across the waste to landfill to as close to zero whenever legally, technically the need for new virgin fiber. Stora Enso also uses paper for recycling Materials, water, and energy value chain. This alliance brings together companies involved in and commercially possible. The Group target is to maintain the high (PfR) wherever it makes environmental and economic sense. Recycled Carbon dioxide the life cycle of fiber-based packaging to raise awareness about level of a 98% process residuals utilisation rate. The target covers all newspapers and magazines are used to produce certain paper grades innovation in fiber-based packaging, set guidelines for circular Stora Enso production units. at Langerbrugge Mill in Belgium (where they account for 100% of Financials Forests, plantations, and land use product design, and support the development of optimised collection Since 2016, Stora Enso has partnered with the Swedish sourced fiber), Sachsen Mill (100%) and Maxau Mill (approximately systems and critical recycling infrastructure. government agency for innovation, Vinnova, with the aim to recycle 75%) in Germany, and Hylte Mill in Sweden (55%). Recovered board is For information about how our divisions worked to advance our materials containing carbon and calcium in the steel industry. used to make specific containerboard grades at Ostrołeka Mill in Poland Economic agenda the circular bioeconomy in 2019, see page 59. Successful trials have explored the beneficial use of fly ash, lime mud, (90% of fiber sourced for containerboard production) and at Varkaus Customers bio sludge and fiber sludge. Mill in Finland. Value from waste and residuals Through cooperation with local authorities and waste management Suppliers In addition to our traditional products as well as lignin, tall oil, Paper for Recycling companies, and our own collection facilities, we secure sufficient PfR Investors turpentine, and energy pellets, Stora Enso’s production processes Wood and fiber are the main raw materials in Stora Enso’s production from industrial, commercial and domestic sources. In Poland, we own generate other residuals and wastes, including ash, sawdust, bark, processes. Materials made with virgin fiber are used for products and manage a network of 18 depots where PfR is collected and baled and wastewater treatment sludge. Many of these materials are used with special safety requirements such as food packaging and for transportation to our Ostrołeka Mill. Data and assurance in our internal bioenergy generation and pulp production or supplied According to CEPI, Europe’s overall PfR recycling rate has been to third parties to be used in applications such as agriculture, cement high for many years. In 2018, the rate was 71.6%, and the collection Reporting scope and concrete products or land and road construction. We constantly was 56.7 million tonnes of PfR (-0.3% compared to 2017). This is a innovate to improve resource efficiency and make profitable use of noteworthy achievement as not all paper can currently be recycled, such Data by production unit Auditor’s assurance report material streams that would otherwise end up as waste. In 2019, Stora Enso as tissue paper. While overall collection rates within the EU are relatively We ensure that hazardous waste is safely processed at suitable and other CEPI member high, certain central and southern European countries still have potential Governance facilities, and we report on hazardous waste disposal in accordance to improve. Focusing on EU countries with collection rates below 60%, GRI Index with relevant regulations. Our third-party certified ISO 14001 systems comprise of on-site management procedures for handling chemicals companies launched Stora Enso and the paper industry are actively supporting best practices while these countries establish sustainable collection systems to and waste at our mills. Expertise and best practices related to the 4evergreen alliance. support the EU goal of a 74% paper recycling rate by 2020. 35 Stora Enso 2019: Sustainability – Environmental agenda – Materials, water, and energy Strategy Annual Report 2019 Stora Enso’s water withdrawal and consumption Sustainability Governance Strategy, governance, and stakeholders Our targets Sustainability Adopting the SDGs Human rights Social agenda Employees and wider workforce Community Almost 96% of the water we withdraw is Business ethics recycled back to the local environment after being carefully purified. Environmental agenda Some 4% of the water we withdraw is consumed in our production. Materials, water, and energy Carbon dioxide Financials Forests, plantations, and land use We recycle water within our mills whenever possible, to reduce the need for water intake. Economic agenda Responsible water use have previously applied the WBCSD Global Water Tool to assess decrease both total water withdrawal and process water discharges Customers Production at Stora Enso’s mills requires large amounts of water. the related risks at our production units, which identified five per saleable tonne of board, pulp and paper. In line with Group However, only around 4% is consumed in our production processes while mills operating in water basins where water stress occurs. It also targets and to drive continuous improvement, our units set their own Suppliers almost 96% is recycled back to the local environment. Process water is calculated the total proportion of our water withdrawn from waterquantified water targets based on their local context as part of our Investors purified by our treatment plants and then discharged, whereas cooling stressed basins to be 2%. In 2019, we took the next step to improve mill environmental management systems. and other non-process water can be safely released without treatment. our Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) procedures geared towards The new Group water target setting towards 2030 will be Our strategic approach to water stewardship builds upon six pillars: local water stress. The improved ERM, based on local conditions, evaluated in 2020 based on the outcome of the Sunila Mill pilot, Data and assurance • Assessment of conditions at mills and in the water basins where method will enhance proactive measures in the water stewardship which will be run in 2020. we operate, work at our mills. Water is by definition always a local environmental Approximately 2% of our water use is recycled internally by Reporting scope • Setting ambition levels and goals, challenge or opportunity. As a public commitment to water reusing cooling and non-contact water as process water. Optimising Data by production unit • Investments, resource management and the development of sustainable water our water use also reduces the need for water pumping and heating, • Mapping water use at mills to identify saving potential, strategies, Stora Enso signed the United Nations Global Compact’s which creates energy savings and makes the purification of the Auditor’s assurance report • Performance measurement, and CEO Water Mandate in 2009 and the Finnish Water Stewardship remaining wastewater more efficient. Governance • Communication and engagement with stakeholders. Commitment in 2018. We continue to explore the potential to use refined wastewater Our strategic water goals are to reduce impacts on water use, to residue in new products. For example, our Skoghall Mill in Sweden GRI Index Stora Enso withdraws 98.5% of its total water from surface water, minimise impacts on quality, and to recycle water within mills when is working with the University of Karlstad to create bio-based 1.4% from municipal sources and 0.1% from groundwater. We possible to reduce the need for water intake. Our Group targets are to products such as bioplastics and hydrogen gas from biosludge. 36 Stora Enso 2019: Sustainability – Environmental agenda – Materials, water, and energy Strategy Long-term energy supply contracts Progress Annual Report 2019 Board, pulp, and paper production processes are the most energy intensive phases in Stora Enso’s value chain, which makes it essential for Materials our mills to have access to a reliable energy supply at a reasonable cost. Stora Enso’s energy supply is managed under long-term contracts, direct Value from waste market access through energy exchanges, efficient combined heat and During 2019, we continued to monitor our financial value creation power production, and shareholdings in power generation companies from process waste and residuals and the commercialisation of new such as Pohjolan Voima Oyj and Teollisuuden Voima Oyj in Finland. For product applications. more information on these partnerships, see Financials 2019 (Note 14). Stora Enso’s utilisation rate for process residuals and waste Sustainability Stora Enso is committed to continuous improvement in energy across the Group, including internal and external uses, amounted efficiency and energy self-sufficiency. We assess the opportunities to to 98% in 2019 (98% in 2018). During the year, Stora Enso’s use fuels from biomass residual streams or other low-carbon options revenue from residuals amounted to EUR 30 million (EUR 34 Governance in connection with energy investments. million in 2018). We continued the commercialisation and product Strategy, governance, and stakeholders development applications for fly ash from several paper mills Structured approach to energy management such as Hylte and Sachsen. A prerequisite for launching fly ash Our targets Sustainability Stora Enso’s Energy Services team is responsible for procuring as a product is the registration of the product according to the EU Adopting the SDGs energy and managing the implementation of our energy strategy. regulation for chemicals (REACH), which was completed during This work involves the hedging of energy prices, managing the trading the year. This registration also ensures that the material will be Human rights of emission rights, green certificates, and guarantees of origin, used in a safe and controlled manner according to performed consulting our mills on a wide range of energy topics, and monitoring risk assessments. our carbon dioxide allowance balance. The team also monitors and Stora Enso’s fly ash with a product certification will be marketed Social agenda contributes to developments in energy legislation. under the brand VersaLime™ for a broad range of applications. Employees and wider workforce A high proportion of biomass is used in the internal energy VersaLime™ is a recycled mineral from paper and board production production at most of our mills. This renewable energy is generated and can replace non-renewable materials to help our customers’ Community from by-products and residuals from our own production processes, become more circular and reduce their carbon footprint. At Sunila Business ethics harvested residues, recovered wood, and waste streams. Mill in Finland, there has been ongoing work for several years to The harvesting residuals used for energy within Stora Enso’s construct a new wood yard with a load bearing stabilisation layer operations are mainly purchased by our wood supply organisation in consisting of a mixture of fly ash from the mill’s bark boiler and clay Bark is used in our internal bioenergy generation. Environmental agenda connection with wood purchases. Each mill is individually responsible from the ground. When finalised, a total of 37 000 tonnes of fly ash for the procurement of most other fuels. Mills are also responsible for and 6 200 tonnes of green liquor dregs will have been used and Materials, water, and energy optimising their energy efficiency using internal tools and certified covered by asphalt as the top layer. ash for road construction and for the cement manufacturing Carbon dioxide environmental and energy management systems, with support from Other examples of material efficiency and circularity include industry in 2019. our energy efficiency teams. the beneficial use of fly ash at our Langerbrugge Mill in Belgium At our Oulu Mill, 3 000 tonnes of fly ash from the solid fuel boiler Financials Forests, plantations, and land use and Oulu Mill in Finland. Together with contractors, Langerbrugge was granulated onsite by Rakeistus Oy for forest fertilization purposes Mill recycled approximately 60 000 tonnes of calcium-rich fly in 2019, and 8 000 tonnes was used for land construction. Economic agenda Customers Suppliers Utilisation of process waste and residual materials¹ Process waste to landfill¹ Paper for Recycling: procurement by origin 68 222 tonnes Thousand tonnes1 Investors Energy generation 58% Fly ash 65% Western Europe 1,202 (54%) Wood pellet, chipboard, and Green liquor dregs 23% Central Europe 702 (32%) low grade paper manufacturing 17% Bottom ash 5% Nordic countries 300 (13%) Data and assurance Landscaping, landfill and road construction 9% Wood handling waste 4% Other countries 15 (1%) Reporting scope Brick and cement manufacturing 5% Lime mud 1% Pulp manufacturing 3% Other process related waste 2% Data by production unit Process waste to landfill 2% Auditor’s assurance report Agricultural use 1% Governance Other 5% 1 Covers all Stora Enso production units, as dry tonnes. Excluding joint operations. 1 Covers all Stora Enso production units. Excluding joint operations. In addition to 1 Totalamounts of Paper for Recycling (recovered paper and board) procured GRI Index process waste to landfill, Stora Enso’s production units created a total of 2 343 within these regions for delivery to our mills. tonnes of non-process waste, and 78 674 tonnes of process waste was sent to on-site storage facilities. Legend Value in % Value Western Europe 54% 1,202 (XX%) Legend Value in % Value Legend Value in % Value Central Europe 32% 702 (XX%) Fly ash 65% Energy generation 58% Nordic countries 13% 300 (XX%) Green liquor dregs 23% Wood pellet, chipboard, and 17% low grade paper manufacturing Other countries 1% 15 (XX%) Bottom ash 5% Total 99.4803965750338% 2219 0 37 Stora Enso 2019: Sustainability – Environmental agenda – Materials, water, and energy Strategy Hazardous waste Annual Report 2019 During 2019, Stora Enso’s production units generated a total of 4 816 tonnes of hazardous waste, up from 4 1231 tonnes in 2018. This waste includes oils, solvents, paints, laboratory chemicals, and batteries and is transported and processed by authorised contractors. In addition, 8 575 tonnes of sludge classified as hazardous waste was generated at the disused Falun copper mine in Sweden (8 309 tonnes) and handled by an authorised contractor. Sustainability Paper for Recycling Stora Enso used 2.2 million tonnes of paper for recycling (PfR) in 2019 (2.5 million tonnes), making us one of the largest PfR consumers Governance in Europe. The PfR utilisation rate in our paper and board production Strategy, governance, and stakeholders was 25% (26%). The figures exclude Dawang Paper Mill in China as the divestment of the mill was completed in October 2019. Our targets Sustainability In 2019, Stora Enso explored the recycling of paper cups for Adopting the SDGs magazine paper production on a large scale at its Langerbrugge Mill in Belgium. Based on production trials, Stora Enso possesses Human rights the technical feasibility to recycle paper cups for use in other paper applications. The trial confirmed that paper cups can be recycled at the mill without any additional process equipment, and that the fibers are Social agenda well suited for magazine paper production. Stora Enso is now looking Employees and wider workforce into partnerships for the collection and sorting of used paper cups to ensure that this high-quality fiber material is captured and given Community a second life. Business ethics During the year, Stora Enso also conducted a trial with its external Recovered fiber is a valuable raw material for many of our mills. Recovered board is used to make specific containerboard grades. partner Fiskeby Board in Sweden to explore possibilities to recycle used paper cups into white-lined chipboard (WLC). The trial confirmed Environmental agenda that paper cups can be utilised as a valuable raw material to produce Materials, water, and energy WLC board without any investments or changes to the process conditions at the Fiskeby Board mill. With 2.2 million tonnes of paper activity in natural watercourses through eutrophication. AOX is a collective term for the amount of chlorine or other halogens bound to Carbon dioxide for recycling (PfR) used in 2019, organic matter such as wastewater. In 2019, Stora Enso’s Group-wide Chemical safety management Stora Enso is one of the largest nitrogen effluents to water amounted to 1 150 tonnes (1 180 tonnes), Financials Forests, plantations, and land use During 2019, Stora Enso continued to roll out a Group-wide Chemicals phosphorus effluents to 113 tonnes (110 tonnes), and AOX to 307 Management Guideline, which outlines the minimum requirements for all our units globally, including occupational health and safety PfR consumers in Europe. tonnes (300 tonnes). In 2019, Stora Enso began implementing a EUR 3.6 million Economic agenda and environmental safety. The guideline is a part of the internal investment in wastewater treatment improvements at Anjala Mill in Customers management systems at our operational units and auditing will be Mill in Germany to install a new steam turbine with a closed-loop Finland. The investment will improve the operation of the biological conducted within their existing structures. cooling system and additional biomass storage is expected to be treatment plant during the winter months and reduce effluent Suppliers completed in 2020. The cooling system will relieve pressure on the emissions from potential disturbances. The investment will be Investors Water Rhine River through a lower thermal output and by withdrawing completed in 2020. considerably less water. Promoting water efficiency New instructions for legionella Data and assurance The objective of our KPIs on total water withdrawal and process water Effluents to water In 2019, Stora Enso rolled out new Group instructions for the discharges is to drive a downward trend from our 2016 baselines of The wastewater treatment facilities that treat process water from management of legionella risks at all production facilities. Legionella Reporting scope 57 m3 and 27 m3 per saleable tonne of product, respectively. In 2019, our production processes release effluents to water. These effluents is a bacteria that commonly appears in ground and surface waters, Data by production unit our total water withdrawal was 61 m3 per saleable tonne (56 in 2018) include phosphorus (P), nitrogen (N), chemical oxygen demand and is considered potentially dangerous to humans when inhaled as and our process water discharges amounted to 29 m3 per saleable substances (COD), and adsorbable organic halogen compounds aerosols (water mist). Legionella can cause respiratory infections such Auditor’s assurance report tonne (26 in 2018). Despite increasing focus on water efficiency, lower (AOX). The facilities ensure that discharged water is ecologically safe. as legionnaires’ disease that can lead to pneumonia. Legionella can Governance production of board, pulp, and paper partly affected our specific water Discharging process water that has not been properly treated can exist in the pulp and paper industry’s biological wastewater treatment performance normalised as per tonnes. contribute to local environmental impacts. Excessive concentrations facilities, cooling towers, and water ponds. GRI Index We continued to identify mill-specific water-related challenges of phosphorus compounds in water, together with nitrogen and opportunities in 2019. Our EUR 25 million investment at Maxau compounds and organic substances, can lead to increased biological 1 Restated -1 106 tonnes due to a reporting error. 38 Stora Enso 2019: Sustainability – Environmental agenda – Materials, water, and energy Strategy In 2019, an outbreak of legionnaire’s disease affected In 2019, the share of biomass in energy generation at our own mill Annual Report 2019 a municipality close to Ghent, Belgium. The Flemish Care and sites was 82% (81%). Our total energy self-sufficiency rate was 67% Health Agency identified the cooling tower of the power plant at (66%2) and our electricity self-sufficiency rate was 61% (58%2). Langerbrugge Mill as one possible source of the infection. The Energy accounted for 9% of Stora Enso’s variable costs in 2019 cooling tower was stopped for cleaning and disinfection, and (10% in 2018). measures were carried out in cooperation with the authorities and international legionella experts. After approval by the Energy efficiency high on the agenda Flemish Care and Health Agency, the cooling tower was started Stora Enso continued to enhance energy efficiency throughout again. Investigations are still ongoing. Stora Enso’s instructions the Group’s operations in 2019. Sustainability for legionella were reviewed to capture best practices to We are committed to the voluntary Energy Intensive Industries manage legionella. Agreement managed by the Finnish Forest Industries Federation (FFI), which aims for a national 4% energy use reduction among Governance Energy its signatories between 2017 and 2020, and a 3.5% reduction Strategy, governance, and stakeholders Our Group-wide target is to reduce specific electricity and heat (cumulative, in MWh) during 2021–2025. consumption per tonne of pulp, paper, and board production by We also participate in groups that share industry best practice on Our targets Sustainability 15% by 2020, compared with the baseline year of 2010. In 2019, this energy efficiency in Finland and promote energy efficiency at our mills. Adopting the SDGs indicator was 2.9% lower than the 2010 baseline (3.6%1 in 2018). Specific energy consumption has been affected by structural factors 1 Calculation principles for electricity and heat consumption were revised during 2019. Human rights The figures for 2018 and 2017 have been restated for comparability. such as production line closures or conversions to new products at 2 Electricity from Pohjolan Voima Oy (PVO), where Stora Enso is a minority shareholder, From hard-to-handle waste to pure bioenergy our mills, as well as our changing product portfolio. is considered as own electricity production in the figures. Sludge is a by-product of processes carried out in industry Social agenda and agriculture. It is very wet, so disposing of it is difficult. Water withdrawal and consumption1 Employees and wider workforce A pilot project at Stora Enso’s Heinola Mill in Finland addresses Million m3 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Trend 2015–2019 this challenge in the spirit of bio-based circular economy. Community Process water 306 297 291 291 298 -3% “Using a new technology, bio sludge can now be dried in Cooling water (net) 283 301 304 297 297 5% Business ethics an energy efficient way and becomes clean and odourless Total water withdrawal 589 598 595 587 595 1% biofuel without the need for additional fossil-based fuel,” m3/tonne 58 57 56 56 61 5% says Mikael Sillfors, Development Manager at Heinola Mill. Environmental agenda Water consumption 23 23 25 23 22 -4% Materials, water, and energy m3/tonne 2.2 2.2 2.3 2.2 2.2 0% Carbon dioxide Process water discharges 272 280 272 273 283 4% Read the full article at storaenso.com/sustainability Financials Forests, plantations, and land use m3/tonne 27 27 26 26 29 9% 1 Figures from board, pulp, and paper production units. Normalised figures are reported per unit of sales production. Economic agenda Customers Phosphorus1 Nitrogen1 Adsorbable organic halogen Chemical oxygen demand (COD)1 Suppliers compounds (AOX)1 135 14 1.4 130 110 11 Investors 500 100 120 12 1.3 120 100 9 400 80 105 10 1.2 110 90 7 Data and assurance 300 60 90 8 1.1 100 80 5 75 6 1.0 90 200 40 70 3 Reporting scope Data by production unit 60 4 0.9 80 100 20 60 1 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Trend 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Trend 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Trend 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Trend Auditor’s assurance report 15–19 1 000 15–19 15–19 1 000 15–19 Governance tonnes 124 109 111 110 112 -10% tonnes 1.13 1.12 1.21 1.18 1.15 2% tonnes 312 282 290 296 303 -3% tonnes 96 92 93 90 93 -3% g/tonne 12.2 10.4 10.5 10.5 11.5 -6% g/tonne 111 107 114 112 117 5% g/tonne 75 68 71 73 75 0% kg/tonne 9.4 8.8 8.8 8.6 9.6 2% GRI Index 1 Figures cover board, pulp, and paper production units. 1 Figures cover board, pulp, and paper production units. 1 Figures from bleached chemical pulp production units only. 1 Figures cover board, pulp, and paper production units. Excluding joint operations. Normalised figures are reported per Excluding joint operations. Normalised figures are reported per Excluding joint operations. Normalised figures are reported Excluding joint operations. Normalised figures are reported unit of sales production. unit of sales production. per unit of bleached chemical pulp production. per unit of sales production. Leave blank 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Leave blank Trend Leave blank 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Leave blank Trend Leave blank 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Leave blank Leave blank Trend 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Leave blank Trend 39 Stora Enso 2019: Sustainability – Environmental agenda – Materials, water, and energy Strategy Stora Enso’s Energy efficiency fund Annual Report 2019 Stora Enso’s central energy efficiency investment fund is another important part of our work. In 2019, this fund amounted to EUR 10 million (EUR 10 million in 2018) and was earmarked for energy efficiency investment projects at our mills. The fund financed 47 (55) projects in 2019, including an air compressor development project at Hylte Mill in Sweden, the installation of a new paper machine drying hood at Sachsen Mill in Germany, and a power boiler operational range improvement project at Varkaus Mill in Finland. When fully Sustainability implemented, the projects financed in 2019 are estimated to generate annual energy savings of at least 201 GWh (41 GWh electricity and 160 GWh heat). These figures are equivalent to 0.4% of our annual Governance electricity consumption and 0.5% of our annual heat consumption. Strategy, governance, and stakeholders The projects are estimated to eliminate over 22 000 tonnes of annual direct fossil CO2 emissions. To support the Group’s enhanced focus Our targets Sustainability on water management and water savings, the Energy efficiency fund Adopting the SDGs will more explicitly also support water saving projects starting in 2020, and has been renamed the Energy and water efficiency fund. Human rights Emissions to air Our atmospheric emissions primarily result from the combustion of Social agenda fuels used to generate energy. These emissions include carbon dioxide Employees and wider workforce (CO2), sulphur dioxide (SO2), nitrogen oxides (NOx), and fine particles. When not properly managed, CO2 contributes to global warming while Community SO2 and NOx emissions affect air quality and can cause acid rain and Business ethics soil acidification. We work to reduce our air emissions by using more renewable energy, improving energy efficiency, and using advanced technologies such as scrubbers and boiler process control systems. Environmental agenda In 2019, Stora Enso’s Group-wide SO2 emissions amounted to 2 870 tonnes (2 900 tonnes in 2018), NOx emissions totalled Materials, water, and energy 10 180 tonnes (10 840 tonnes), and emissions of fine particles Carbon dioxide amounted to 1 660 tonnes (1 740 tonnes). All Stora Enso’s board, pulp, and paper mills are part of an energy efficiency best practice network. Financials Forests, plantations, and land use Fuels1 2 Electricity generation and sourcing¹ Heat consumption1 2 Electricity consumption1 Economic agenda Biomass 82% Own electricity 30 3.00 13 1.25 Customers Gas 5% generation2 60% Coal 5% Purchased electricity 40% 25 2.75 Suppliers Peat 3% 12 1.20 Investors Oil 2% 20 2.50 Other fossil 3% 11 1.15 15 2.25 Data and assurance 10 2.00 10 1.10 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Trend 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Trend Our total annual fuel consumption was 41.8 terawatt During 2019 we generated and purchased 12.0 terawatt hours Reporting scope hours (TWh) in 2019 (42.7 TWh in 2018). (TWh) of electricity and consumed 11.6 TWh (12.6 and 12.3 15–19 15–19 during 2018). 0.4 TWh was sold (0.3). TWh 25.0 26.1 26.1 26.1 25.0 0.0% TWh 12.1 12.3 12.4 12.3 11.6 -4.1% Data by production unit MWh/ MWh/ tonne 2.46 2.50 2.47 2.49 2.56 4.1% tonne 1.19 1.17 1.18 1.17 1.19 0.0% Auditor’s assurance report 1 Figures cover board, pulp, and paper mills. 1 Figures cover board, pulp, and paper mills. Governance Excluding joint operations. Excluding joint operations. 1 Heat consumed by board, pulp, and paper mills, excluding 1Electricity consumed by board, pulp, and paper mills, 2 As of Sustainability report 2019 use of fuels is expressed as ² Including electricity from Pohjolan Voima Oyj (PVO), sold heat and heat used for electricity generation. Excluding excluding sold electricity. Excluding joint operations. watt hours. where Stora Enso is a minority shareholder. joint operations. Normalised figures are reported per unit of Normalised figures are reported per unit of sales production. GRI Index sales production. 2 As of Sustainability report 2019 heat consumption is Legend Value in % Value expressed as watt hours. Biomass 82% Legend Value in % TWh Gas 5% Own electricity 60% 7.1 Coal 5% generation2 Leave blank 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Leave blank blank Trend Leave 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Leave blank Trend Purchased electricity 40% 4.8 Peat 3% TWh 25.0 26.1 26.1 26.1 25.0 TWh 0.0% 12.1 12.3 12.4 12.3 11.6 -4.1% Total Oil 2% MWh/tonne 2.46 2.50 2.47 2.49 2.56 MWh/tonne 4.1% 1.19 1.17 1.18 1.17 1.19 0.0% Other fossil 3% 40 Efficient use of materials in circular bioeconomy1 Stora Enso 2019: Sustainability – Environmental agenda – Materials, water, and energy Strategy Annual Report 2019 Production in 2019 Wood1 Fossil fuels External Water 37.8 million m3 7.7 TWh biomass energy 599 million m3, 5.4 TWh of which 96% is returned back Corrugated to the local Consumer board Containerboard packaging3 Market pulp1 Sustainability Purchased electricity2 Purchased pulp and paper for Pigments, fillers, starch, and other environment 2.7 million tonnes 1.3 million tonnes 0.5 million m2 2.5 million tonnes 7.0 TWh recycling chemicals Governance 2.5 million tonnes 2.3 million tonnes Strategy, governance, and stakeholders Our targets Sustainability Adopting the SDGs Human rights Paper Other products4 Social agenda 4.1 million tonnes Employees and wider workforce Community Business ethics Environmental agenda Materials, water, and energy Wood products Carbon dioxide 5.6 million m3 Financials Forests, plantations, and land use Bark and harvesting residuals for Economic agenda energy Customers Suppliers Investors Data and assurance Externally delivered Residuals for electricity/heat/ beneficial use Reporting scope Lignin Biocomposites steam 1.5 million tonnes Data by production unit 1.2 TWh Auditor’s assurance report Governance Covers all Stora Enso production units. Excluding 50%-owned joint operations Veracel and Montes del Plata, except Wood use and Market pulp production figures in which 50% of the joint operations included. The illustration shows the key materials used in our processes, GRI Index 1 together with our production figures as reported in our environmental reporting system. For a comprehensive illustration on how we create value see our Strategy 2019. 2 Electricity from PVO included in purchased electricity. 3 Corrugated packaging production partly based on own containerboard production. 4 Other products include mainly pellets, wood chips, tall oil, and turpentine. 41 Environmental incidents in 2019 Stora Enso 2019: Sustainability – Environmental agenda – Materials, water, and energy Strategy Annual Report 2019 The table below provides details of environmental incidents involving a non-compliance with environmental legislation or permits, or a significant stakeholder concern related to environmental performance. Unit Incident Corrective actions Ostroł ka Mill SOx air emissions exceeded the mill’s environmental permit between October 2018 and Q4 A recovery boiler modernisation project and the implementation of a computerised process 2019. These emissions were caused by insufficient sulphur capture in the recovery boiler bed. control system for the operation of the evaporator and the recovery boiler. Sustainability The dimethyl disulphide permit limit and the NOx limit from the mill’s lime kiln were also New burners were installed in September to ensure the NOx emissions from the lime kiln remain exceeded in periodical air measurements made in June and July. These breaches were caused within agreed limits. Investigations are ongoing into the dimethyl disulphide breach, which will by an insufficient burner on the lime kiln and a lack of continuous measurement. be followed up with corrective actions. In addition, frequency of off-line measurements will be Governance increased. In addition, the night-time noise level was increased between April and July due to a damaged Strategy, governance, and stakeholders silencer on the exhaust gas channel. Temporally, a plan to use back-up boilers during night hours and weekends was prepared. A new silencer was later installed on the exhaust gas channel. Our targets Sustainability Anjala/Ingerois integrated mill Suspended solids in water discharges exceeded the permit limit in February due to previously An investment has been approved to overcome the issue with the wastewater treatment plant. Adopting the SDGs identified problems in the wastewater treatment plant. Lahti Mill A leakage of approximately 15 tonnes of starch glue powder mixture used for corrugated board The pipe was repaired, stakeholders were informed, and preventive actions were taken to avoid Human rights production onto the factory roof occurred in March due to a pipe breakage. A small quantity of similar incidents from occurring in the future. the powder was blown by the wind outside the factory area, but there were no environmental impacts or risks to human health. Enocell Mill Suspended solids in effluents to water exceeded the mill’s permit twice in 2019, in July and July: The flow from the wastewater plant buffer pond was stopped and procedures how to Social agenda November. The occurrence in July was due to a recovery boiler logic failure and sudden manage sudden mill shutdowns were improved focusing on the evaporation tank farm. steam loss causing unstable conditions in the mill. The exceeding in November was caused Employees and wider workforce by runnability problems in pulp washing in connection to the start-up of the mill after a major November: The runnability of pulp washing in fiber line no.2 was stabilised and improved. Community rebuild, resulting in a high COD load to wastewater treatment. Business ethics Heinola Fluting Mill NOx emissions from the recovery boiler exceeded the annual permit limit due to issues in Corrective measures in air distribution and the position of the black liquor sprays were the chemical system occurring after changes in the boiler. implemented during the annual shutdown in September 2019. Environmental agenda Materials, water, and energy Carbon dioxide Financials Forests, plantations, and land use Economic agenda Customers Suppliers Investors Data and assurance Reporting scope Data by production unit Auditor’s assurance report Governance GRI Index 42 Stora Enso 2019: Sustainability – Environmental agenda – Carbon dioxide Strategy Annual Report 2019 Our CO2e emissions were 25% lower than the 2010 base-year level Sustainability Governance Opportunities and challenges Strategy, governance, and stakeholders Contributing to a low-carbon economy Our targets Sustainability Global warming is one of the greatest challenges of our time, Adopting the SDGs impacting the environment and people through natural disasters, and the loss of ecosystems and livelihoods. As a leading renewable Human rights materials company with access to carbon-neutral biomass, Stora Enso is in a unique position to combat global warming. We have an opportunity to pioneer the transition to a fossil-free world. Social agenda Trees in sustainably managed forests absorb carbon dioxide (CO2) Employees and wider workforce from the atmosphere and together with wood-based products act as carbon storage. Our products help our customers and society at Community large to reduce CO2 emissions by providing low-carbon alternatives to Business ethics solutions based on fossil fuels and other non-renewable materials. The first truly global climate agreement was approved at the Paris Climate Conference (COP21) in 2015 and entered into force Environmental agenda in November 2016. Ahead of COP21, Stora Enso signed a pledge to combat global warming with science-based reduction targets Materials, water, and energy for greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. In December 2017, we Carbon dioxide became the first forest products company to have its climate targets approved by the Science Based Targets initiative. Our targets, which Financials Forests, plantations, and land use address significant emissions throughout our value chain, were announced in January 2018 and are well below the 2°C limit set by the Paris Agreement. Economic agenda The Science Based Targets initiative is a collaboration between Customers CDP, World Resources Institute (WRI), the World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF), and the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). It is also Suppliers one of the commitments of the We Mean Business Coalition to drive Investors ambitious corporate climate action. The EU’s Emissions Trading System (ETS) is the largest mandatory international system for trading greenhouse gas emission allowances, Data and assurance and a major element of the EU’s efforts to combat global warming. The ETS grants ‘carbon leakage’ status to industries where it is Carbon dioxide Reporting scope considered that costs related to climate policies might cause Data by production unit businesses to transfer production to countries outside the EU with less demanding requirements. The forest industry in the EU currently Auditor’s assurance report has carbon leakage status for its main end products during the current Governance We combat global warming with renewable materials, period 2013-2020. It will also continue to enjoy this status for the next 2021–2030 period. The number of free emission allowances will GRI Index resource and energy efficient production processes, be reduced gradually in the next trading period. This led to further and sustainable forest management. increases to emission allowance prices during 2019. 43 Stora Enso 2019: Sustainability – Environmental agenda – Carbon dioxide Strategy The European Commission has presented its strategy for Annual Report 2019 a carbon neutral EU by 2050. The strategy relies on the circular economy, natural carbon sinks, and lifestyle changes and suggests emission cuts from all main sectors including power generation, industry, transport, buildings, construction, and agriculture. As an overall ambition level, it states that by 2050, the EU should achieve net zero greenhouse gas emissions. The role of a competitive EU industry is considered a key enabler in the strategy, and it specifically refers to reaping the full benefits of Sustainability the bioeconomy. As a result, the European Commission proposed a ‘European Green Deal,’ which includes the announcement of a European Climate Law to be presented in 2020. Governance Strategy, governance, and stakeholders Our policies Our targets A resilient carbon strategy Sustainability Adopting the SDGs Agreed in 2016, our carbon strategy states that it is our firm intention to drive down our fossil fuel use, so that we get as close to zero as Human rights possible within a decade using technically and commercially feasible means. Relevant policies guiding and steering our efforts to combat global warming include our: Social agenda • Policy for Energy and Carbon Employees and wider workforce • Environmental Guidelines – a more comprehensive overview of our policy objectives and how we work to achieve them. Community • Supplier Code of Conduct and Practical Guide for Suppliers Business ethics – guides us on how CO2 emissions can be reduced in our supply chain. Environmental agenda How we work Materials, water, and energy Scenario-driven work Carbon dioxide We actively reduce the energy intensity of our operations – and in many places also our dependency on fossil fuels. We measure Financials Forests, plantations, and land use our progress to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions as a key performance indicator (KPI). Stora Enso’s science-based target is to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from our operations by 31% Our mills work systematically to improve energy efficiency, which is one of the most effective ways to reduce our fossil CO 2 emissions. Economic agenda per tonne of pulp, paper and board produced by 2030 compared with Customers the 2010 base-year. We report on our progress in our Sustainability report and quarterly Interim Reports. Improving our energy efficiency climate impact including avoided emissions by product substitution Suppliers A key tool in the GHG scenario assessment and the establishment Greenhouse gases emitted by our operations include carbon dioxide, and forest sequestration. Read more about our product substitution Investors of reduction targets was the Stora Enso Carbon Neutrality Roadmap, methane and nitrous oxide – with carbon dioxide being by far the most potential and total climate impact in Strategy 2019. We cooperate which guides our long and short-term fossil CO2 reduction actions. significant. The most effective ways to reduce our direct fossil CO2 with the Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences (SLU) to further Read more about our actions in the Progress section of this chapter. emissions are to further improve our energy efficiency, and to continue develop the scientific methods for calculating climate impact. Data and assurance to increase our use of biomass fuels from residuals. Significant Stora Enso regularly carries out Life Cycle Assessments (LCAs) investments in recent years, particularly in multi-fuel boilers, have to understand and develop product environmental footprints, Reporting scope achieved large reductions in our fossil CO2 intensity. including carbon footprints. The LCAs show great potential for Data by production unit renewable products in substituting fossil-based alternatives to cut Calculating the climate benefits of our products carbon emissions. Auditor’s assurance report Our Carbon Neutrality Roadmap Growing trees absorb carbon dioxide from the atmosphere, and the For example, based on our product-specific LCAs, the Trayforma Governance carbon is stored in renewable, fiber-based products even through paperboard tray by Stora Enso has a carbon footprint that is up to GRI Index guides our long and short-term recycling. Our products help our customers and society at large to reduce CO2 emissions by providing low-carbon solutions to fossil64% lower than plastic trays and Stora Enso’s EcoFishBox™ climate change impacts and fossil resource depletion is at least 40% lower fossil CO2 reduction actions. based alternatives. During 2019, we worked to calculate our total than traditional polystyrene fish boxes. 44 Stora Enso 2019: Sustainability – Environmental agenda – Carbon dioxide Strategy Annual Report 2019 Substituting fossil-based materials with renewable materials helps combat global warming. Sustainability Evaluating risks and opportunities Governance Stora Enso evaluates the risks and opportunities related to global Strategy, governance, and stakeholders warming through its annual Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) process, which forms an integral part of the Group’s management Our targets approach (for more information, see Financials 2019). We routinely Sustainability Adopting the SDGs calculate the financial impacts of potential cost increases in relation to emission allowances, including the impacts of possible increases in Human rights energy prices. Our production units systematically work to meet their environmental regulatory requirements and to improve their energy efficiency. Their work is supported by international third-party certified Social agenda systems such as the environmental management standard ISO 14001 Employees and wider workforce and the energy management standard ISO 50001. For unit-specific information on certifications, see pages 69–71. Community Business ethics Detailed carbon reporting We publicly report on our greenhouse gas emissions in three categories: • Carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e) emissions from operations Environmental agenda Massive wood elements such as Cross-Laminated Timber (CLT), pictured here at our Gruvön Mill in Sweden, can store carbon for decades. They also have a smaller we directly own or control, including on-site energy generation carbon footprint than non-renewable alternatives. facilities and our own processes, power boilers, lime kilns, and Materials, water, and energy on-site vehicles (Scope 1). Carbon dioxide • CO2e emissions related to the electricity and heat we purchase externally for use in our operations (Scope 2). Financials Forests, plantations, and land use Bringing climate reporting to the forefront • Estimated CO2e emissions from other indirect sources along our value chain (Scope 3). Climate reporting is an essential way for companies to show Economic agenda how they are doing their share to combat global warming. Customers Having one set of reporting standards for all, such as the TCFD recommendations, should make it easier for investors and lenders Reporting according to TCFD Suppliers to compare industries and companies. The challenge is that some The Financial Stability Board’s (FSB) Task Force on ClimateInvestors companies have better resources and expertise available than related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) recommends a framework others, and the work may seem intimidating. for disclosing climate-related risks and opportunities that “But the climate challenge on which our survival depends is goes beyond current practices. The TCFD recommendations Data and assurance also intimidating so this is necessary work that must get done. respond to a growing demand for improved financial disclosures Reporting in line with the TCFD recommendations will help society from companies in relation to climate risks. In addition to Reporting scope at large to judge whether companies are truly making decisions for investors and regulators, Stora Enso together with other Data by production unit the long-term survival of our planet,” says Lois Guthrie, Director leading companies have communicated their support for of Redefining Value at the World Business Council for Sustainable the recommendations through Statements of Support by Auditor’s assurance report Development (WBCSD). Accounting for Sustainability (A4S). For more information on Governance Stora Enso’s reporting according to TCFD recommendations within the categories of governance, strategy, risk management GRI Index Read the full article at storaenso.com/sustainability and metrics, see Financials 2019. 45 Stora Enso 2019: Sustainability – Environmental agenda – Carbon dioxide Strategy Stora Enso’s GHG performance1 3 and scenarios for the forest industry2 the low-carbon transition. It also evaluates how a company’s future Annual Report 2019 Greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) in relation to production carbon performance would compare to the international targets and national pledges made under the Paris Agreement. In its assessment Million tonnes kg/tonne of how 18 of the largest paper producers globally are preparing for 7.0 700 the transition to a low-carbon economy, TPI top-ranked Stora Enso in both management quality and carbon performance. Stora Enso 2 °C scenario ranked on the highest possible level in management quality and had 6.0 600 an emissions reduction target set until 2030, aligned with keeping the global temperature rise below 2°C. Sustainability Well below 2 °C scenario Stora Enso endorses the Corporate Leaders Group (CLG) policy 5.0 500 statement on net-zero strategies. The CLG brings together European business leaders to accelerate progress towards a low-carbon, Governance sustainable economy. In 2019, we contributed to the CLG report Strategy, governance, and stakeholders 4.0 400 ‘Forging a carbon-neutral heavy industry by 2050: How Europe can seize the opportunity.’ Our targets Sustainability Stora Enso is a member of the We Mean Business coalition. Adopting the SDGs 3.0 300 The coalition brings together non-profit organisations, businesses, and investors who recognise that transitioning to a low-carbon Human rights economy is the only way to secure sustainable economic growth. 2.0 200 As a partner of the World Green Building Council in Europe, we supported the launch of the ‘Bringing Embodied Carbon Social agenda Upfront’ report, with the vision of net zero embodied carbon for 1.0 100 the construction industry. Employees and wider workforce Community Progress 0.0 0 Business ethics 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026 2027 2028 2029 2030 Our science-based targets In 2019, our CO2e emissions per saleable tonne of board, pulp, and Environmental agenda Scope 1+2, million tonnes Target baseline CO2e kg/tonne SBT projectory kg/tonne paper were 25% lower than the 2010 benchmark level (18% lower in 2018). The performance improved mainly due to a significant new Materials, water, and energy Target contract to purchase certified renewable electricity from the national Scope 1+2 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 20164 2017 20185 2019 2030 Carbon dioxide pool in Poland and to the use of less fossil-intensive purchased Million tonnes 6.52 5.78 4.86 3.85 4.42 3.72 3.62 3.75 3.63 3.27 3.21 3.31 3.42 2.90 electricity at our Finnish mills and Beihai Mill in China. In absolute Financials Forests, plantations, and land use kg/tonne 494 448 407 391 396 341 334 354 361 321 308 313 326 297 273 terms, our direct and indirect CO2e emissions were 34% lower than in 1 Covering direct and indirect emissions as 2 GHG reduction pathways for 2 °C 3 Fossil CO2e emissions data from our operations 5Historical figures recalculated 2010. Direct CO2e emissions per unit of sales production were 16% fossil CO2 equivalents (scope 1 and 2) from scenario and well below 2 °C scenario as (scope 1+2) have been verified at reasonable due to accuracy improvements. lower than in 2010. The CO2e emissions resulting from the generation Economic agenda board, pulp, paper, and corrugated CO2e kg/tonne, based on information assurance level since 2015 and calculated of purchased electricity and heat during 2019 were 66% lower than in production units. Excluding joint operations. from the Transition Pathway Initiative according to the GHG protocol. * Asset owner-led initiative Customers Normalised figures are reported per unit of (TPI)* including scenarios data from the 4 Since 2016 our CO2e performance has been supported by Grantham 2010 per unit of sales production. sales production. Includes trading of Energy Technology Perspectives report adversely affected by the coal-based energy Research Institute and London The total direct and indirect CO2e emissions from Stora Enso’s Suppliers Guarantees of Origin of electricity. by the International Energy Agency. generation at our Beihai Mill in China. School of Economics. board, pulp, and paper mills amounted to 2.90 million tonnes in 2019 Investors SBT = Science-based target (3.42 million tonnes in 2018). Sixteen of Stora Enso’s mills use production process residuals to generate renewable energy and distribute it to local district heating 1 Data and assurance systems (approximately 90%) and industrial partners (approximately 10%). In most cases, the heat supplied from our production units Reporting scope All our units report quarterly on carbon emissions for Scopes 1 and 2. External recognition and partnerships directly reduces the local use of oil and other fossil fuels. In 2019, Data by production unit A Group-level estimate for Scope 3 emissions is updated biannually. to combat global warming a total of 0.9 TWh of heat was sold to these district heating systems Our carbon footprint accounting is based on guidelines provided In February 2020, Stora Enso was top-ranked in greenhouse gas serving thirteen communities (1.1 TWh in 2018). Using this amount Auditor’s assurance report by the Greenhouse Gas Protocol of the World Resource Institute management for the third time in a row. The Transition Pathway of renewable energy instead of, for example, light fuel oil for heating Governance (WRI) and the World Business Council for Sustainable Development Initiative (TPI) is an asset owner-led initiative supported by the resulted in estimated emission reductions amounting to 0.23 million (WBCSD). In 2019, we continued to have the reporting of our direct Grantham Research Institute and London School of Economics. tonnes of fossil CO2 (0.29 million tonnes). GRI Index and indirect fossil CO2e emissions (Scopes 1 and 2) externally assured It evaluates and tracks the quality of a company’s management of to a Reasonable Level. For more information, see page 72. greenhouse gas emissions and of risks and opportunities related to 46 Stora Enso 2019: Sustainability – Environmental agenda – Carbon dioxide Strategy Investing in a low-carbon future use a variety of fuel mixes. In 2019, modest amounts of wastewater heat that we purchase for use in our operations account for 6% (9%) Annual Report 2019 We strive to increase the proportion of biomass in our internal energy sludge, forest residuals and other side streams from our production of our total carbon emissions. generation. In line with our policy to give preference to energy from processes were used in the boiler. The medium-term objective is to We estimate that 71% (69%) of the emissions in our carbon footprint low-fossil carbon sources, Stora Enso has invested EUR 25 million to replace 10 000 tonnes of coal in annual fuel use with these steps. are generated elsewhere along our value chain. The majority of our boost green energy generation at Maxau Mill in Germany. The project A power supply contract with low-carbon nuclear electricity has emissions are generated in the sourcing and manufacturing of our raw will be completed during 2020. The investment is expected to annually reduced the CO2 emissions from purchased electricity by over materials and services (37% of the total Scope 3 emissions); in the further save 50 000 tonnes of CO2 emissions from 2020. For more information, 50 000 tonnes compared with 2018. For more information about processing of our products by customers (43%); and in the transportation see page 37. our coal sourcing, see page 63. of raw materials to our mills and our final products to our customers In 2019, an industrial scale pilot plant was built at Heinola Mill in (20%). To identify potential for further reducing our emissions in Scopes Sustainability Finland, to convert biosludge into renewable biofuel. The facility will Carbon neutral emissions 1, 2, and 3, we have strengthened our internal steering processes in recycle 16 000 metric tonnes of biosludge a year and reduce annual Carbon neutral CO2 emissions are fossil-free emissions generated accordance with the actions agreed in our science-based targets. carbon dioxide emissions. For more information, see page 38. during the combustion of biomass-based fuels sourced from We continued to implement methodologies for calculating the Governance Another important part of our work is our central energy efficiency sustainably managed forests1. These emissions are carbon neutral as quantities of carbon sequestered in forests and plantations owned Strategy, governance, and stakeholders investment fund. When fully implemented, the projects financed in the forests are regenerated and the new generation of trees absorb and managed by Stora Enso and our associate companies. We 2019 are estimated to eliminate over 22 000 tonnes of direct fossil CO2 CO2 while growing. When forests are sustainably managed, this cycle also continued our work with external experts to identify a credible Our targets Sustainability emissions annually. For more information, see page 39. can continue indefinitely. Stora Enso’s operations utilise renewable methodology to calculate the positive substitution effect our renewable Adopting the SDGs biomass fuels from forest and process residuals to a large extent, products have when compared with fossil CO2 intensive alternatives. Human rights Investigating non-fossil fuel alternatives for Beihai Mill which means that the proportion of carbon neutral CO2 emissions in At our Beihai Mill in Guangxi province, China, coal is currently the our total emissions is high. In 2019, 81% (80%) of the total direct and Value chain emissions only feasible energy source for an industrial project of this scale in indirect CO2 emissions from our own operations were carbon neutral. The CO2 emissions generated during the transportation of our raw the region, as there are inadequate sustainable supply chains for materials and products, which is the most significant environmental Social agenda non-fossil fuels at present. We continue to investigate long-term Our carbon footprint impact associated with our logistical operations, are mainly produced Employees and wider workforce options to gradually move away from coal to biomass and other Direct emissions from our operations account for 23% (22% in 2018) by external service providers. Transportation accounts for 20% of all non-fossil fuels. The power boiler at Beihai Mill is technically able to of our carbon footprint, while emissions related to the electricity and our Scope 3 CO2 emissions. In 2019, we introduced High Capacity Community Transport (HCT) in our logistics in Finland and Sweden. These longer Business ethics and more efficient trucks reduce fuel consumption and emissions per unit of cargo transported and the number of trips required to move Environmental agenda In 2019, 81% of the total CO2 emissions the same amount of freight. With High Capacity Transport, there is potential to halve CO2 emissions from road transportation. In 2019, we Materials, water, and energy from our own operations were carbon neutral. introduced HCT in Finland for a limited number of routes and achieved a 10% reduction in CO2 emissions for transportation when using HCT Carbon dioxide transport compared with normal truck deliveries. Stora Enso’s carbon footprint 2015–20191 Sea transport accounts for approximately 89% of all our Financials Forests, plantations, and land use Fossil CO2 equivalent (million tonnes)3 product transportation by weight and distance, while road and rail Trend transportation account for 9% and 2% respectively. 2015 2016 2017 20182 2019 15–19 Our commitment to science-based targets includes engagement Economic agenda Scope 1: Direct targets for Scope 3. To reduce emissions in the value chain, Stora Enso emissions from our commits to having 70% of its non-fiber raw material suppliers and Customers operations. 2.24 2.40 2.34 2.48 2.38 6% downstream transportation suppliers in terms of spend set their own Suppliers Scope 2: Emissions from purchased energy greenhouse gas (GHG) reduction targets by 2025, towards the aim of Investors consumed in our adopting science-based GHG reduction targets by 2030. operations.3 1.19 0.97 1.10 1.08 0.66 -45% We use sustainability criteria in the tendering phase of our sourcing Scope 3: Emissions process and collecting data on supplier performance. Suppliers now from other sources need to respond to a set of questions about their financial stability, CO2 Data and assurance along our value chain.4 7.26 7.65 7.97 7.89 7.42 2% emissions, and accident rates. These criteria are part of every tender, Reporting scope Total 10.69 11.02 11.41 11.45 10.46 -2% regardless of previous contracts with the same supplier. For more Data by production unit 1 Covers all Stora Enso production units. Excluding joint operations. Includes the trading information, see page 61. of Guarantees of Origin for electricity. Historical figures for 2018 recalculated due to accuracy improvements. In addition, we will educate 100% of our customer-facing staff on Auditor’s assurance report 2 the advantages of setting science-based targets by 2020. Governance 3 The CO2 factors we use for purchased energy (scope 2) largely follow the market-based methodology, which means that almost all our units apply CO2 factors provided by their energy suppliers. When applying currently available location-based factors our scope 2 emissions for 2019 are 1.08 million tonnes of CO2 equivalents (1.30 million tonnes in 2018). GRI Index 4 Historical scope 3 emissions recalculated bi-annually against the most recent With High Capacity Transport, there is potential to halve CO 2 emissions from the road transportation of our materials and products. methodology in order to ensure comparability. 1 Recommendations on Biomass Carbon Neutrality, WBCSD 2015. 47 Stora Enso 2019: Sustainability – Environmental agenda – Carbon dioxide Strategy Annual Report 2019 Stora Enso’s carbon footprint1 Indirect emissions 6% Sustainability Governance Our direct emissions Indirect emissions 23% Strategy, governance, and stakeholders along the value chain Electricity and heat purchased 71% Our targets Sustainability for our operations Adopting the SDGs Human rights On-site electricity and heat production Social agenda Employees and wider workforce Community Business ethics Production of fuels Environmental agenda Harvesting Materials, water, and energy Processing of products Carbon dioxide by our customers Financials Forests, plantations, and land use Production of purchased materials and services: Transportation and distribution of Economic agenda pulp, recycled paper and our products to customers globally board, pigments, fillers Customers Suppliers Investors Transportation of purchased raw materials and fuels Data and assurance Reporting scope Data by production unit Auditor’s assurance report Scope 1: Direct emissions from our operations. Scope 2: Emissions from purchased energy consumed in our operations. Scope 3: Emissions from other sources along our value chain. Governance GRI Index 1 Covers all Stora Enso production units, a total of 10.46 million tonnes of fossil CO2 equivalent (11.45 million tonnes in 2018). Excluding joint operations. 48 Stora Enso 2019: Sustainability – Environmental agenda – Forests, plantations, and land use Strategy Annual Report 2019 Forest certification coverage for Forests, plantations, lands owned or managed by us and land use Sustainability Sustainable forest management safeguards forest health and productivity, helps combat global warming, and protects biodiversity. 98% Forests have an important role to play in the transition to a fossil-free world. Governance Strategy, governance, and stakeholders Opportunities and challenges Our targets Combatting global warming with forestry Sustainability Adopting the SDGs Forests and plantations are an increasingly important part of the wider global sustainable development agenda, particularly in relation Human rights to combatting global warming. As a renewable natural resource, wood represents a favourable alternative to fossil-based and other non-renewable materials. Growing trees absorb carbon dioxide (CO2) Social agenda from the atmosphere, and together with wood-based products act Employees and wider workforce as carbon storage. Sustainable forest management ensures that new generations of trees replace those that are logged. Community The role of forests in combatting global warming has been broadly Business ethics recognised. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change issued the ‘Climate Change and Land’ report in 2019 that emphasised sustainable land management. For Stora Enso, it is essential Environmental agenda that any regional or national policy fully utilises the potential of sustainable renewable materials and supports the transition towards Materials, water, and energy a circular economy. Carbon dioxide Global warming entails physical challenges and opportunities in relation to forests and plantations but also people, which highlights Financials Forests, plantations, and land use the importance of sustainable forestry as a solution to climate change. Changing patterns of temperature, wind, and rainfall can all be expected to impact our operational environment. Well-managed Economic agenda forests and plantations can make entire ecosystems more resilient Customers to negative impacts, and even benefit from the positive effects. In addition to global warming, biodiversity loss due to unsustainable Suppliers land use is a global challenge that emphases the need to conserve Investors natural ecosystems. Using forests or land for tree plantations may also impact the human rights of forestry workers and local communities. Maintaining Data and assurance good dialogue with community members helps to ensure that their rights to, for example, property, self-determination, and cultural Reporting scope activities, are respected. Data by production unit Global challenges such as population growth, the increasing demand for agricultural land, and the widening gap between the supply Auditor’s assurance report and demand for wood, all require us to use natural resources even more Governance efficiently, and to produce more raw materials from less land. GRI Index 49 We established the new Forest Stora Enso 2019: Sustainability – Environmental agenda – Forests, plantations, and land use Strategy Annual Report 2019 division to add transparency and manage our forest assets. Sustainability Governance Our policies Strategy, governance, and stakeholders Committed to sustainable wood and fiber sourcing Our targets Stora Enso’s policy on Wood and Fiber Sourcing, and Land Sustainability Adopting the SDGs Management covers the entire cycle of forest and tree plantation management. The policy requires sustainable forest management Human rights through responsible sourcing and land use – to safeguard the health and ecological functions of ecosystems and to help conserve biodiversity, soil, and water resources. To achieve this, we maintain Social agenda open dialogue with our stakeholders. Employees and wider workforce Other relevant policies that promote sustainable forestry include our: • Environmental Guidelines – a more comprehensive overview of Community our policy objectives and how we work to achieve them. Business ethics • The Stora Enso Code – our code of conduct. • Supplier Code of Conduct – our demands on suppliers. Environmental agenda How we work Materials, water, and energy Ensuring the sustainability of fiber Carbon dioxide Stora Enso’s approach to responsible forest and tree plantation management is based on the economic, social, and environmental Financials Forests, plantations, and land use aspects of sustainability. Compliance with national legislation and regulatory obligations is only the starting point for our work. We actively support and implement voluntary forest conservation We always ensure that forests and tree plantations are duly regenerated. Regeneration is usually done through active planting or sowing. Economic agenda and restoration measures on lands owned, leased, and managed by Customers Stora Enso, and in other areas where we purchase wood. Stora Enso continued its cooperation with the World Wildlife Suppliers Fund for Nature (WWF) in several countries in 2019. Initiatives Stora Enso and the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) have process in all our operating regions. Our wood supply organisation Investors included the New Generation Plantations (NGP) platform, which an international partnership agreement to establish a long-term consists of regional units that source wood for Stora Enso mills. Key focuses on the institutional and technological aspects of responsible strategic collaboration to develop and promote sustainable forestry. elements in this work include knowledge sharing, personnel rotation, plantation management. During 2019, the focus was on expanding FSC group certification contractor support, centralised coordination of innovation projects Data and assurance We are active members in numerous local and global forestry among private forest owners in Finland. Stora Enso promotes all and the use of digitalisation. Our wood procurement process covers associations, networks, and programmes. Stora Enso has been main forest certification systems and is committed to the responsible the entire management cycle in forests and plantations – from planning Reporting scope a member of the Forest Solutions Group (FSG) of the World sourcing of wood and fiber from only sustainably managed forests to harvesting and regeneration. Data by production unit Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) since and tree plantations. We use long-term planning to ensure our forestry operations the late 1990s and has co-chaired it since 2018. During 2019, we are preparing and adapting to the changing climatic conditions. Auditor’s assurance report actively participated in the implementation of the Forest Sector SDG Strategic approach to forestry operations Stora Enso evaluates risks and opportunities related to global Governance Roadmap. For more information, see page 10. We also continued Our wood supply strategy is based on competitive wood supply, warming, and forest and land use through the annual Enterprise to support and participate in The Forests Dialogue (TFD), which is innovation, and sustainable forest management (read more in Strategy Risk Management (ERM) process, which forms an integral part GRI Index a platform for multi-stakeholder discussion and collaboration on 2019). To cover all aspects of sustainability in our forest and plantation of the Group’s management approach (for more information, the most pressing local and global issues facing forests and people. operations, we apply the same comprehensive wood procurement see Financials 2019). 50 Stora Enso 2019: Sustainability – Environmental agenda – Forests, plantations, and land use Strategy Responsible forestry is complemented by natural seed dispersal from nearby forests, implement biodiversity management practices in Northern forests, Annual Report 2019 Stora Enso’s wood comes from three sources: company-owned by leaving seed trees standing in the harvesting area, or by see page 53. forest; company-owned plantations; and third-party suppliers. In coppicing. Whatever the methods used, we always ensure the forest Stora Enso is also cooperating with WWF Finland to promote 2019, 87% (89%) of Stora Enso’s wood came from managed semiwill regenerate. the conservation and sustainable use of forests. This work includes natural forests in Europe, most of which are privately owned. We work promoting alternative harvesting practices among private forest owners. together with forest owners to identify sensitive forest areas in need Protecting biodiversity In 2019, Stora Enso established a long-term co-operation with the of protection. Our experts are trained to identify such areas and we Sustainable forest management safeguards forest health and Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences (SLU) to further develop regularly consult the authorities on these matters. Forest planning productivity and protects biodiversity – while securing the long-term biodiversity management in Nordic forests. involves finding ways to optimise wood production and conservation. availability of our renewable resources. Therefore, we closely monitor In fast growing tree plantations, the landscape typically consists Sustainability the management of the forests and plantations from which we source of a mosaic of areas for both intensive wood production and wood. Wood harvesting is planned to suit the particular characteristics biodiversity conservation. Wood procurement by region1 of each harvesting site, making use of appropriate harvesting methods In Brazil, our joint operation Veracel goes beyond regeneration Governance 36.3 million m3 and technologies. Harvesting volumes are aligned with the long-term by conserving and restoring areas of natural Atlantic Rainforest. Strategy, governance, and stakeholders Finland 12.1 (33%) carrying capacity of particular forests and plantations. All Veracel’s tree plantations were established on degraded pasture Sweden2 8.7 (24%) In Northern managed semi-natural forests, biodiversity is lands, and no rainforest has been converted into plantations. When Our targets Sustainability Central Europe 5.6 (16%) maintained and enhanced in both areas for wood production and Veracel’s plantations were established in 1991, less than 7% of the Adopting the SDGs Russia 3.2 (9%) set-aside areas. As trees take many years or decades to mature, longoriginal Atlantic rainforest was left in the region following extensive Uruguay3 2.3 (6%) term forestry planning is essential. This involves ecological landscape logging and clearing for cattle ranching between the 1950s and Human rights Baltic countries 2.1 (6%) plans and biodiversity assessments to identify, conserve, and restore 1980s. Since the plantations were established, Veracel has worked Brazil3 1.9 (5%) vital ecosystems and ecological features. For examples on how we systematically to protect and restore local biodiversity. China 0.4 (1%) Social agenda 1 Total amounts of wood (roundwood and chips) procured within these regions Employees and wider workforce for delivery to our mills (million m3, solid under bark). Excluding internal wood Community chip deliveries. 2 Including wood procured from Norway. Business ethics 3 Figures for Brazil and Uruguay include 50% of the wood procurement of our joint operations Veracel and Montes del Plata. Environmental agenda In 2019, 13% of Stora Enso’s wood came from tree plantations Materials, water, and energy (11%). When establishing new plantations, we use internationally Carbon dioxide approved Legend principles such as theValue Foodin % and Agriculture Value Organisation’s (FAO) Voluntary Guidelines on Planted Forests. Our commercial Finland 33.0% 12.1 (33%) Financials Forests, plantations, and land use Sweden2 24.0% 8.7 (24%) plantations are also certified to ensure all aspects of sustainability are Central Europe 16.0% 5.6 (16%) taken into consideration. Stora Enso never establishes plantations Russia 9.0% 3.2 (9%) in natural forests, protected areas, or water-sensitive locations. We Uruguay3 6.0% 2.3 (6%) Economic agenda Baltic countries 6.0% 2.1 (6%) only use land with low biodiversity value, such as former pasture land. Brazil3 5.0% 1.9 (5%) 3 Customers Stora Enso’s employees and forestry contractors are given on-the-job China 0.4% 0.4 (1%) training in ecological management, and we regularly monitor the Total 94% 34 0 0 Suppliers impacts of our operations on biodiversity, soil, and water resources. Investors As we recognise that our plantations are an integral part of local land use, we evaluate and define sustainable land use practices specifically for each location. After determining the scope of expected Data and assurance impacts and possible remedies, we decide whether or not to proceed with a proposed project. Stora Enso subsequently remains in constant Reporting scope dialogue with stakeholders and strives to ensure that land contracts Data by production unit are legitimate and fair. For more information about human rights in land acquisition and management, see pages 14–15. Auditor’s assurance report Governance Forest regeneration We always ensure that the forests and plantations where we harvest GRI Index wood are duly regenerated. This is often done through active planting or sowing, although in many areas active regeneration In forestry operations, the amount of deadwood is increased to maintain biodiversity by leaving decaying trees untouched and avoiding the removal of forest floor deadwood. 51 Stora Enso 2019: Sustainability – Environmental agenda – Forests, plantations, and land use Strategy Approximately half of Veracel’s 213 000 hectares of land are Annual Report 2019 dedicated to rainforest preservation and restoration. Veracel aims to restore approximately 400 hectares of rainforest habitat every year by planting native species. In total, 6 600 hectares of forest have been restored between 1994 and the end of 2019. This work is part of a regional restoration programme that helps connect the remaining areas of valuable natural habitat to each other with forest corridors that enable wildlife to move more freely from one area to another. Veracel’s significant contribution to the conservation of natural Atlantic Sustainability rainforest and its rich biodiversity has been recognised by both the Brazilian authorities and international stakeholders. The Veracel Station visitor centre, established in an area of Governance preserved rainforest habitat, conducts research, conserves native and Strategy, governance, and stakeholders endangered ecosystems, and raises environmental awareness among visitors. Since 2015, the visitor centre has also developed ecotourism, Our targets Sustainability with a special focus on birdwatching. Adopting the SDGs In 2019, Montes del Plata signed a cooperation agreement with Uruguayan NGO Aves Uruguay. Through this agreement, both Human rights organisations will promote the sustainable management of natural grasslands. For more information, see page 26. In 2019, Stora Enso supported a migratory bird protection project Social agenda in Beihai, China, which is an important flyway for birds. Employees and wider workforce Promoting sustainable forestry management Community through forest certification Business ethics All roundwood, chips, sawdust, and externally purchased pulp supplied to our mills come from sustainable sources. We use a range of tools to ensure this, and to guarantee the sustainability Environmental agenda of each part of the forest management cycle. These tools include forest certification and third-party traceability systems such as Approximately half of Veracel’s 213 000 hectares of land is dedicated to the conservation and restoration of rainforest. Materials, water, and energy the Forest Stewardship Council’s (FSC) Chain of Custody/Controlled Carbon dioxide Wood scheme, the Chain of Custody/Due Diligence System of the Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification (PEFC), and Tree breeding Progress Financials Forests, plantations, and land use the ISO 14001 environmental management standard. In addition, Stora Enso continuously works towards the long-term goal of our Supplier Code of Conduct complements these tools by imposing improving the productivity and quality of the eucalyptus trees grown Wood from sustainable sources strict contractual requirements on our suppliers. in our plantations, so as to sustainably enhance wood production In 2019, the shareholders of Bergvik Skog AB, a Swedish forest Economic agenda We work actively with our stakeholders to promote sustainable per unit of land. Tree breeding primarily targets increased biomass holding company, finalised the previously announced restructuring of Customers forest management and the wider use of certification systems. production (i.e. volume and density) and cellulose yield. Other its ownership. Stora Enso’s forest holdings in Sweden are 1.41 million As certification programmes cover all three aspects of sustainability objectives might include improved rooting or resistance to frost, hectares, of which 1.14 million hectares is productive forest land. Suppliers (environmental, social, and economic), they are an important indicator drought, pests, or diseases, depending on local conditions and the Stora Enso’s Swedish forest assets are 100% covered by forest Investors of responsible forestry. species in question. We test and apply modern scientific tools for certificates. In 2019, Stora Enso also announced that it will establish We regularly audit our suppliers and work together with respected tree improvement and the management of genetic diversity. This may a Forest division as of 1 January 2020. The new division includes local institutions to ensure everything is done according to the involve selecting ‘elite trees’ or conducting marker-assisted breeding Stora Enso’s Swedish forest assets and its 41% share of Tornator with Data and assurance standards set by certification schemes and our own policies. and genetic engineering. the majority of its forest assets located in Finland. The Forest division Our genetic engineering activities are in the research phase. also includes wood supply operations in Finland, Sweden, Russia and Reporting scope As with traditional clone improvements, it will take many years to the Baltic countries. develop genetically engineered clones for commercial use. During Globally, Stora Enso owns or manages lands covering a total Data by production unit Auditor’s assurance report We work with our stakeholders 2019, we continued the process to establish field trials in areas area of 2.35 million hectares. We follow our progress on responsible to promote sustainable forest totalling less than five hectares in Brazil. These trials fully comply with forestry with a key performance indicator (KPI) that measures Governance relevant national regulations. Stora Enso will not carry out any trials the proportion of land in wood production and harvesting owned GRI Index management and the wider use considered by the authorities to be unsafe or otherwise not permitted. We currently have no plans to plant genetically engineered trees in any or managed by Stora Enso that is covered by forest certification schemes. Our target is to maintain the high level of 96%. In 2019, of certification systems. of our commercial plantations. coverage amounted to 98% (96% in 2018). 52 Stora Enso 2019: Sustainability – Environmental agenda – Forests, plantations, and land use Strategy Stakeholder concerns and dialogues Annual Report 2019 Stora Enso recognises that the areas where we operate are of value to different stakeholders. We have therefore adopted an integrated approach to land use around our plantations. This includes applied innovative land use models in Laos, Uruguay, and Brazil to benefit local farmers and communities as well the company. For more information on these integrated land use practices, see pages 25–26. In 2019, sustainable forestry was of stakeholder interest, with environmental NGOs widely calling for increased forest protection. Sustainability In our stakeholder communications during the year, we stressed our commitment to forest certification, wood traceability, biodiversity conservation, and open stakeholder dialogues, and that we always Governance ensure that all the wood we use comes from sustainably managed Strategy, governance, and stakeholders sources. We believe that the most sustainable way to protect high conservation values is through national and regional multi-stakeholder Our targets Sustainability processes. During the year, Stora Enso engaged in regular dialogues Adopting the SDGs with NGOs and other stakeholders. We also encouraged our business partners and NGOs to participate in such engagements. Human rights Social agenda Employees and wider workforce Community Business ethics Environmental agenda Materials, water, and energy Carbon dioxide Financials Forests, plantations, and land use We work together with forest owners to identify sensitive forest areas in need of protection. Economic agenda Building models for sustainable forestry Customers The proportion of third-party certified wood in our total wood in the total certified area. For further details, see the table on page 54. In 2019, WWF-Russia and Stora Enso celebrated 20 years of Suppliers supply was 75% in 2019 (76% in 2018). We know the origin of all We also continued our support for the Boreal Forest Platform (BFP), cooperation in Russia. The Pskov Model Forest project is one of Investors the wood we use and 100% comes from sustainable sources. a stakeholder forum organised by WWF Russia. the landmarks of the joint efforts to improve sustainable forestry. In 2019, the total amount of wood (including roundwood, wood In Finland, Stora Enso offers FSC forest certification services to Why was that project established and what have we learnt? chips, and sawdust) delivered to our mills was 36.3 million m3 (solid private forest owners. In 2019, the number of members in Stora Enso “From the beginning, our goal in cooperating with WWF was Data and assurance under bark) (38.7 million m3 in 2018). Wood Supply Finland’s FSC group grew to 285 private forest owners to improve sustainable forestry practices in Russia, to ensure In Russia, we continued to work with WWF. In 2019, Stora Enso and (135 in 2018) corresponding to 54 000 hectares (over 30 000 hectares that wood procurement is responsible and that environmental Reporting scope WWF Russia celebrated 20 years of cooperation for the development at the end of 2018). and social aspects are taken into account in forestry,” says Data by production unit and wide implementation of sustainable forestry practices in the Since 2011, Veracel has promoted group certification among its Olga Rogozina, Sustainability Manager at Stora Enso Wood country. During the year, with Stora Enso’s support, WWF Russia tree farmers in Brazil. In 2014, Aspex, an association representing Supply Russia. “For example, conserving biodiversity in forests Auditor’s assurance report organised training related to the social aspects of forestry. The total certified tree farms, took over the management of the certification is an important part of sustainable forest management.” Governance area covered by group forestry certifications in Russia was 1.31 million process, using certificates granted by both FSC and Cerflor (PEFC). hectares (1.31 million hectares in 2018). Our Russian subsidiaries By the end of 2019, dual forest certificates had been obtained by 75 GRI Index have been FSC certified since 2006, and the lands managed by farmers (73 at the end of 2018) for areas totalling 38 000 hectares Read the full article at storaenso.com/sustainability Stora Enso in Russia through long-term harvesting rights are included (38 000), including 16 000 hectares (16 000) planted with eucalyptus. 53 Biodiversity management practices in Northern forests Stora Enso 2019: Sustainability – Environmental agenda – Forests, plantations, and land use Strategy Annual Report 2019 Decaying wood High stumps Retention trees Forest structure Decaying wood provides an During harvesting, we make Provide continuum of decaying Variation in forest structure important habitat for a wide artificial snags to increase wood for forest species, such helps to maintain species variety of forest species. the amount of deadwood. as birds who need it for nesting. and habitat diversity. Sustainability Governance Strategy, governance, and stakeholders Protection of Our targets Sustainability valuable sites Adopting the SDGs In forest management planning, we identify and Human rights protect ecologically and culturally valuable sites. Social agenda Employees and wider workforce Community Business ethics Environmental agenda Materials, water, and energy Carbon dioxide Financials Forests, plantations, and land use Economic agenda Customers Suppliers Investors Data and assurance Reporting scope Data by production unit Controlled burning Soil and water protection Buffer zones Creates suitable habitats Harvesting, soil preparation Protect watercourses, connect and Auditor’s assurance report for many fire-dependent and road building are provide habitats for forest species and Governance species and enhances forest planned to minimize adverse improve visual quality of the managed regeneration. impacts to soil and water. landscape. GRI Index Read more at storaenso.com/biodiversity. 54 Forests, plantations, and land owned by Stora Enso1 as of 31 December 2019 Stora Enso 2019: Sustainability – Environmental agenda – Forests, plantations, and land use Strategy Annual Report 2019 Unit Area Certification coverage Details of local landscapes and protected areas Swedish forest holdings 1 408 000 ha, of which 1 140 000 ha PEFC and FSC for 1 408 000 ha Protected areas consist of low productive areas, voluntary set-aside areas and forests in high productive forest land altitudes. Wood Supply, Estonia 140 ha, of which 120 ha productive No protected areas within this area. forest land Montes del Plata plantations and lands, Uruguay 190 000 ha, of which 103 000 ha planted PEFC and FSC for 190 000 ha Mainly pasturelands and agricultural fields. Remnants of native ecosystems, such as (joint operation with Arauco) grasslands and riparian forests, are protected within the company’s lands. Veracel plantations and lands, Bahia, Brazil 213 000 ha, of which 79 000 ha planted CERFLOR (PEFC) for 188 000 ha; Dominated by pasturelands cleared from the Atlantic rainforest between the 1950s and (joint operation with Suzano) for pulp production FSC for 188 000 ha 1980s. 108 000 ha of Veracel’s lands are protected, including a 6 000 ha Private Natural Sustainability Heritage Reserve. These protected areas mostly consist of native forest remnants at different stages of regeneration. 1 Including operations where Stora Enso’s shareholding is at least 50% and size of the area exceeds 100 hectares. In addition to the forest and plantation areas listed above, Stora Enso owns 41% of Tornator, which owns 0.6 million hectares of forestland in Finland, 66 000 Governance hectares in Estonia, and 12 000 hectares in Romania. Strategy, governance, and stakeholders Our targets Forests and plantations managed by Stora Enso1 as of 31 December 2019 Sustainability Unit Area Certification coverage Details of local landscapes and protected areas Adopting the SDGs Wood Supply, Russia2 369 000 ha, of which 323 000 ha FSC group certificate In Russia, protected areas are generally excluded from lease agreements. Areas amounting Human rights productive forest land to 8000 ha are protected as natural monuments, including genetic pine reserves and watercourses. Plantations and lands, Guangxi, China 81 000 ha, of which 76 000 ha planted Chinese Forest Certification Mosaic landscape including agricultural crop fields, forest plantations, and settlements. Social agenda Council certificate (PEFC) for No native ecosystems are found in the leased lands. Areas total at around 2 000 ha, consisting 81 000 ha; FSC for 81 000 ha of steep slopes, buffer zones, and other important areas for watershed protection. Employees and wider workforce Montes del Plata 72 000 ha, of which 53 000 ha planted PEFC and FSC for 63 000 ha Mainly pasturelands and agricultural fields. Protected and sensitive areas are not included in Community lease agreements. Business ethics Veracel 10 000 ha, of which 4 000 ha planted CERFLOR (PEFC) for 9 000 ha; 4 000 ha of leased lands are protected. They mostly consist of native forest remnants at FSC for 9 000 ha different stages of regeneration. Trial plantations, Laos 4 000 ha, of which 3 000 ha planted FSC for 4 000 ha The plantations are located within a mosaic of intensive shifting cultivation lands and traditionally protected remnants of native forests. One plantation area is located close Environmental agenda to a National Biodiversity Conservation Area. The majority of the total area is covered by agroforestry production schemes. Materials, water, and energy 1 Areas managed through leasing or long-term harvesting rights. Including operations where Stora Enso’s shareholding is at least 50% and size of the area exceeds 100 hectares. 2 Long-term harvesting right. Carbon dioxide Financials Forests, plantations, and land use Economic agenda Customers Suppliers Investors Data and assurance Reporting scope Data by production unit Auditor’s assurance report Governance GRI Index Annual Report 2019 We help our Strategy customers meet Sustainability consumer demands for sustainable Governance Strategy, governance, and stakeholders products. Our targets Sustainability Adopting the SDGs Human rights Social agenda Employees and wider workforce Community Business ethics Environmental agenda Materials, water, and energy Carbon dioxide Financials Forests, plantations, and land use Economic agenda Customers Suppliers Economic agenda Investors Data and assurance Reporting scope Customers 56 Data by production unit Suppliers 60 Auditor’s assurance report Governance Investors 64 GRI Index 56 Customers Stora Enso 2019: Sustainability – Economic agenda – Customers Strategy 25 Annual Report 2019 Our renewable products and innovations help society to replace fossil-based materials. of our production units were registered in Sedex Sustainability Governance Opportunities and challenges Strategy, governance, and stakeholders Demand for sustainable solutions Our targets Sustainability The global middle class is growing at an unprecedented pace, Adopting the SDGs leading to an increase in lifestyles that can seriously burden the planet. At the same time, consumer awareness of limited natural resources, Human rights the environmental and health impacts of products, and social responsibility, including human rights, is growing. These megatrends place pressure on brand owners to pay more attention to product and Social agenda supply chain responsibility. Combined with regulations and economic Employees and wider workforce incentives, they are also driving our customers to favour renewable and recyclable raw materials. Community The European Commission’s Circular Economy Package, Business ethics including the EU directive on single use plastics, creates needs for new innovations and provides business opportunities for Stora Enso. According to a study conducted by Material Economics, it has been Environmental agenda estimated that 25% of European plastic packaging could be replaced with existing wood fiber solutions1 such as Trayforma and EcoFishBoxTM Materials, water, and energy by Stora Enso, without significant compromise on functionality. Carbon dioxide Substituting plastics with wood fiber can also make a significant contribution to the EU’s targets for greenhouse gas emissions1. Our Financials Forests, plantations, and land use massive wood elements are examples of solutions that store carbon and have a smaller carbon footprint than non-renewable alternatives. In the long term, we believe societies will increasingly choose Economic agenda to replace fossil-based and other non-renewable materials with Customers renewable alternatives such as those offered by Stora Enso. Suppliers Our policies Investors Guided by our values The Stora Enso Code – constitutes a single set of values for all our Data and assurance employees and explains our approach to ethical business practices, human and labour rights, and environmental values. These values are Reporting scope applied wherever we operate and in all customer relations. Data by production unit Auditor’s assurance report Governance As of 1 January 2020, Stora Enso merged its containerboard business in the Packaging Solutions division with the Consumer Board division, creating a new Packaging Materials division. GRI Index 1 Material economics 57 Stora Enso 2019: Sustainability – Economic agenda – Customers Strategy How we work Annual Report 2019 Value from customer engagement Our expertise in renewable materials and products with high sustainability performance helps us meet the needs of our current and future customers. Our divisions have specific focus areas and products that cater to a broad range of customers. Their product portfolios include various boards for packaging and printing, several pulp grades, wood and fiber-based products for construction, Sustainability biocomposites, energy pellets, paper products made from virgin and recycled fiber, lignin, formed fiber, and intelligent packaging. We foresee many possibilities for bio-based chemicals, bio-barriers, Governance lignin, and biocomposites to meet industry and consumer demands Strategy, governance, and stakeholders for solutions that can replace fossil-based materials. Stora Enso promotes and participates in successful recycling Our targets Sustainability schemes, particularly for paper and board. We also sell and reuse Adopting the SDGs a variety of valuable by-products and residuals from our production processes. For more information, see page 34. Human rights We actively work with our customers to improve material efficiency and decrease the environmental impact of our products and related processes through circular programmes and life cycle analyses, for Social agenda example. In 2019, our Consumer Board division also established Employees and wider workforce an ‘animal origin free’ programme, which helps our customers with potential vegan certification. Community We collaborate with stakeholders to find sustainable solutions for Business ethics the entire value chain. As a member of the Tree-to-Textile initiative, we have joined IKEA and H&M in developing a new sustainable textile fiber for the consumer market. Environmental agenda We also share our sustainability expertise with customers. In 2019, Stora Enso conducted four Paper & Print Academy training sessions According to studies, children in wooden schools experience less stress, have fewer conflicts, and concentrate better. Wooden interiors can also have a calming Materials, water, and energy with over 160 participants from customer companies. The sessions effect on blood pressure. Carbon dioxide enable participants to follow the entire supply chain from forest management to the final paper product. Financials Forests, plantations, and land use We systematically measure customer satisfaction. In 2019, our product safety and quality control systems cover product development, relevant food contact legislation and demands concerning food safety. Net Promoter Score, which measures the willingness of our customers raw material sourcing, and the manufacturing and delivery of When producing food contact materials, we only use chemicals that to recommend our products and services to others, was 56% products. We demand that our suppliers comply with our product have been specifically approved for this purpose, after evaluating Economic agenda (51% in 2018). safety requirements. their safety and legal compliance. Our divisions have Product Safety Customers Our products covered by specific safety regulations include food Networks in place, and all our mills work to ensure that their products Safety and sustainability certifications contact materials, materials for toys, packaging for pharmaceuticals, meet the relevant safety requirements. The ISO 22000, FSSC 22000, Suppliers Ensuring the safety of all our products is essential in everything we do, and construction materials. Our units producing these sensitive and FDA product safety certificates issued to many of our units further Investors in order to safeguard the environment as well as the health and safety materials follow Good Manufacturing Practices, which are a set of ensure that we apply a systematic approach to food safety issues. of our employees, customers, and product end-users. Our in-house widely recognised guidelines incorporated into EU regulations. During ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 certified systems help our units to identify 2019, these practices were implemented at two Paper division mills, and meet customer requirements and to systematically improve Data and assurance enabling the division to offer specialty papers for food packaging. In product quality and environmental management. Many of our wood addition to following Good Manufacturing Practices, all Consumer products are also CE marked to guarantee that they comply with Reporting scope Board mills and most Packaging Solutions mills are certified according the relevant EU legislation. to recognised hygiene management standards. Food safety compliance Many Stora Enso products are sold as FSC or PEFC certified Data by production unit Auditor’s assurance report We collaborate with customers for essential raw materials is also verified with our suppliers prior to any or with other verification for responsible chain of custody and due and other stakeholders to purchasing decision. We provide our customers with information on diligence. These tools validate that the wood used in the products Governance product hygiene and safety aspects through compliance declarations. comes from responsibly managed sources, and that the entire journey GRI Index find sustainable solutions for We also follow legislation designed to protect human health and the environment. These include the EU’s REACH, Biocidal Products, of the raw material – from forest to end-user – has been verified by a third party. For more information about our responsible forestry and the entire value chain. the Classification, Labelling, and Packaging Regulation, as well as forest certification work, see pages 48–54. 58 Stora Enso 2019: Sustainability – Economic agenda – Customers Strategy Life cycle assessments and ecolabels Annual Report 2019 We collect product-specific life cycle inventory (LCI) data, which is typically used in life cycle assessments (LCAs) conducted by our own experts, our customers, or brand owners. Third-party verified Environmental Product Declarations (EPDs) offer transparent information about the footprint of a product throughout its life cycle. Most of Stora Enso’s wood products, such as Classic Sawn Timber and Cross Laminated Timber (CLT), have EPDs. EPDs are used by our customers to help optimise the environmental performance of Sustainability buildings and to achieve green building certification. In 2019, new LCAs were conducted by two Stora Enso divisions. Our Wood Products division published an LCA on a wooden Governance residential building in Finland, which was built using CLT and Strategy, governance, and stakeholders Laminated Veneer Lumber (LVL) by Stora Enso. The LCA shows that wood significantly contributes to achieving net zero carbon buildings. Our targets Sustainability Our Consumer Board division co-commissioned a comparative LCA Adopting the SDGs on single-use coffee cups. The LCA, conducted by the Technical Research Centre of Finland (VTT), shows that when paper cups Human rights are collected and recycled into new products after use, they have the lowest carbon footprint compared to reusable plastic, steel, and ceramic cups. Social agenda More than 90% of our Paper division’s own brands are covered Employees and wider workforce by one or more recognised ecolabel, including the EU Ecolabel, the Nordic Ecolabel, and the German Blue Angel (Blauer Engel). Many Community of our graphical board brands are also available as EU Ecolabel Business ethics certified. Ecolabel criteria cover the entire life cycle of a product, from the extraction of raw materials to production, product use, and disposal. The EU Ecolabel criteria for graphic paper were Environmental agenda revised in 2019, setting stricter demands for elements such as fiber certification. Our related products received renewed certificates Materials, water, and energy during 2019. Carbon dioxide The environmental performance of our paper and board products When a material or product has reached the end of its life, we promote recycling and energy recovery to create further value. is reported in line with the voluntary Paper Profile initiative. Paper Financials Forests, plantations, and land use Profiles have been calculated for all our paper and containerboard products and all main paperboard products. Economic agenda Invaluable information for customers Progress Customers Life Cycle Assessments (LCAs) analyse the selected life cycle Sustainability through co-creation Suppliers stages of a material, product, or service, revealing its potential Customer needs play an important role when we develop products, Investors environmental or human health impacts. A Stora Enso customer, services, and processes. We identify these needs by exchanging for example, can use the information to study the environmental expertise with our customers on various sustainability topics. In 2019, performance of different packaging or construction materials, and to our Packaging Solutions division conducted a customer study to Data and assurance make decisions that help them reach their own sustainability goals. identify business opportunities emerging from sustainability. “An LCA study is a vigorous process of gathering and During the year, our Wood Products division also surveyed Reporting scope processing data, interpreting results, and evaluating our work their customers to find new ways to improve the sustainability and Data by production unit as we go,” says Tiina Keskisaari, Senior Manager of LCA recyclability of its product packaging. Based on the results, the at Stora Enso. “But it gives us and our customers invaluable division will compile case studies on replacing fossil-based plastic Auditor’s assurance report information about product features and process parts.” packaging with fiber-based, recyclable alternatives and on avoiding Governance packaging completely. In addition, a packaging line was established at our Näpi sawmill in Estonia where energy pellets are now packed GRI Index Read the full article at storaenso.com/sustainability in corrugated board instead of plastic. 59 Stora Enso 2019: Sustainability – Economic agenda – Customers Strategy Advancing the circular bioeconomy thermomechanical pulp (CTMP) by pressing them into a desired shape A responsible supplier to our customers Annual Report 2019 As the renewable materials company, Stora Enso operates at the in a moulding machine. Potential end-uses include single-use food By the end of 2019, 25 (25 in 2018) of Stora Enso’s production units heart of the circular bioeconomy. With our expertise, we can help our packaging items such as plastic-free cups, bowls, and coffee cup lids. were registered in the Supplier Ethical Data Exchange (Sedex). Sedex is customers achieve their targets concerning circularity and renewability. In 2019, Stora Enso began the construction of a pilot facility at Sunila a platform where we can share sustainability information with multiple In 2019, our Consumer Board division established a circular Mill in Finland for converting lignin into carbon anode materials for customers in an agreed format and level of detail. By the end of the year, economy programme to drive circularity in the value chain together lithium-ion batteries. The innovation is designed to replace fossil-based twelve of the 25 units had been audited through Sedex Member Ethical with customers, brand owners, and recyclers. The programme anodes, mainly synthetic graphite, that are currently used in batteries. Data Audits (SMETA) at least once. During 2019, SMETA audits were focuses on circular innovations, industry collaboration to increase Stora Enso introduced a paperboard tube for cosmetics packaging conducted at nine Stora Enso units. A second SMETA audit was also the collection and recycling of cardboard products, circular design in 2019. The body of the tube is made from 70% renewable raw completed at our joint operation Veracel in Brazil. All summary audit Sustainability and co-creation with customers, and work with start-ups (see our materials, and Stora Enso is developing biocomposite materials to reports are made visible to customers in Sedex. Strategy 2019). Our Wood Products division established an action replace the tube’s plastic cap and shoulder. Stora Enso is also a member of the ethical supplier rating system plan to enhance the circularity of the building value chain and to In 2019, Stora Enso also announced its investment in the production Ecovadis. Ecovadis’ sustainability scorecards provide detailed insight Governance understand circular design parameters for wood products. The action of a plant-based chemical to be used to make bio-based PEF plastic. into environmental, social, and ethical risks in the supply chain. Since Strategy, governance, and stakeholders plan also seeks to find potential uses for recycled wood from The pilot plant, to be located at our Langerbrugge Mill in Belgium, will 2017, we have been included in the top 1% of industry supplier construction and demolition waste. convert plant-based sugars into the chemical needed to make PEF. performers in sustainability. Our targets Sustainability Our products continued to replace plastics during 2019. Products Adopting the SDGs from our Consumer Board division replaced plastic in ice cream and liquid packaging for major brand owners. EcoFishBoxTM by Stora Enso Human rights replaced a Finnish fish wholesaler’s expanded polystyrene (EPS) packaging to provide renewable, recyclable packaging for around a thousand tonnes of fish annually. Our Intelligent Packaging unit Social agenda introduced the plastic-free ECO RFID Retail Collection to provide Employees and wider workforce retailers with a renewable and more sustainable alternative to traditional hangtags and stickers. Community Our Consumer Board division also works with the Paper Cup Alliance Business ethics to actively facilitate the recycling of paper cups in the UK, together with many of our customers. In addition, the division is an active member of the Alliance for Beverage Cartons and the Environment (ACE), EXTR:ACT, Environmental agenda a platform for increasing beverage carton recycling in Europe, and GRACE, an alliance launched in 2019 for advocating, communicating, Materials, water, and energy and improving the recycling of beverage cartons globally. Carbon dioxide Sustainability embedded in innovation Financials Forests, plantations, and land use In 2019, over 7% of Stora Enso’s sales came from new products (see more in Strategy 2019). We continued to innovate new renewable and recyclable solutions, and introduced an internal checklist Economic agenda that ensures that sustainability is considered at all stages of every Customers research and development initiative. Stora Enso’s expenditure on innovation, research, and development in 2019 was EUR 141 million Suppliers (EUR 149 million), which was equivalent to 1.4% (1.4%) of sales. Investors Read more about our approach to innovation in Financials 2019. Our new production line at Hylte Mill in Sweden began the manufacturing of formed fiber products in 2019. The products Data and assurance are manufactured using various chemical pulps and chemiReporting scope Data by production unit Auditor’s assurance report With our expertise, we can help customers to replace Governance GRI Index plastics and achieve their circularity objectives. In 2019, Stora Enso introduced formed fiber products that can replace single-use food packaging such as plastic plates and bowls. 60 Stora Enso 2019: Sustainability – Economic agenda − Suppliers Strategy 96% Annual Report 2019 Suppliers We have strict sustainability requirements for all our suppliers. We see our extensive supplier base of supplier spend was covered as an opportunity to drive change in the world. by our Supplier Code of Conduct Sustainability Governance Opportunities and challenges Strategy, governance, and stakeholders Promoting supply chain sustainability Our targets Sustainability As a global business with over 20 000 suppliers globally, Stora Enso Adopting the SDGs can use its purchasing power to drive them to make their operations more sustainable. This helps to increase the number of suppliers with Human rights improved sustainability globally. However, developing a comprehensive understanding of a supplier’s sustainability performance, including their potential impacts on human rights, remains a challenge, even with very Social agenda strict sourcing processes and criteria in place. Employees and wider workforce Stora Enso runs sourcing and logistics operations in various regulatory environments. For example, new global regulation by the Community International Maritime Organisation will require reduced sulphur content Business ethics in fuel oil used in marine vessels. We also consistently respond to stakeholder demands concerning transparency and the sustainability performance of our suppliers. Similarly, when sourcing materials, we Environmental agenda look for ways to address the growing stakeholder demand for less plastic. By passing on sustainability requirements to our direct suppliers, Materials, water, and energy we are able to drive positive change further down our supply chains. Carbon dioxide Our policies Financials Forests, plantations, and land use Extensive framework for responsible sourcing The Stora Enso Supplier Code of Conduct (SCoC) is the cornerstone Economic agenda of our approach to responsible sourcing. It is a legally binding Customers document that imposes sustainability requirements on our suppliers concerning human and labour rights, occupational health and safety, Suppliers environmental commitments, and responsible business practices. Investors The SCoC applies to all our sourcing categories globally. Several other Stora Enso policies and documents also support responsible sourcing, including our: Data and assurance • Stora Enso Code – our code of conduct. • Sourcing Policy, Logistics Policy – our statements on our Reporting scope sourcing and logistics framework and objectives. Data by production unit • Sourcing Guideline, Logistics Guideline – define how sourcing and logistics should be executed, managed, and controlled. Auditor’s assurance report Governance Through our Supplier Code of Conduct, we also implement policies and guidelines such as our Policy on Wood and Fiber Sourcing, and GRI Index Land Management, Chemical Management Guideline, and Human Rights Policy. 61 Stora Enso 2019: Sustainability – Economic agenda − Suppliers Strategy How we work All suppliers wishing to do business with Stora Enso must first dioxide (CO2) emissions. Collecting data on our suppliers’ CO2 Annual Report 2019 pre-qualify during tendering or, at the latest, before a contract emissions also contributes to our science-based targets for reducing Strict sustainability requirements is drafted. Instead of using our own supplier numbering, we use greenhouse gas emissions in our value chain. Materials and products sourced by Stora Enso include wood D-U-N-S® numbering, which is a globally recognised system for and fiber-based materials such as pulp and Paper for Recycling identifying companies. To pre-qualify, suppliers must complete Driving supplier sustainability (PfR), chemicals, fillers, energy, fuels, and spare parts, as well as a questionnaire, submit confirmation of their compliance with our In addition to enforcing our SCoC, we help our suppliers improve maintenance, logistics, and IT services. In 2019, purchases of SCoC, and complete our safety management online training. Our their sustainability performance. Our ‘deep dives’ combine desktop materials, goods, and services represented 49% of our total variable suppliers are also asked to provide information about their own reviews and on-site visits to help us better understand specific cost (50% in 2018) while fiber procurement accounted for 51% (50%). suppliers, including sub-suppliers operating in high-risk countries. supply chains and support suppliers in improving their operations. Sustainability Sourcing is a centrally-led function at Stora Enso that serves the We use sustainability criteria in the tendering phase of all For examples, see the Progress section in this chapter. Deep dives entire Group and enables clear and transparent decision-making. sourcing, regardless of previous contracts with the same supplier, also enable us to offer added transparency to our customers – and Sourcing initiatives are reviewed and resolved by dedicated committees and collect data on supplier performance. The criteria help us even their customers. In addition, we conduct on-site visits and Governance that meet when the sourcing need is specified, during the tendering make more balanced sourcing decisions and create incentives for commission audits by third-party auditors to monitor and improve Strategy, governance, and stakeholders process, and when a contract is drafted. In 2019, we created our suppliers to invest in sustainability reporting. To adhere with supplier sustainability performance. Focused audits are done based new guidelines, with sustainability considerations embedded, for the criteria, suppliers need to respond to a set of questions about on risk assessments or concerns raised by our stakeholders. Our targets Sustainability strengthening the role of sourcing categories in managing our activities. their financial stability, occupational accident rates, and carbon Stora Enso’s supplier sustainability risk mapping tool, created Adopting the SDGs in collaboration with an international non-profit organisation, helps our purchasers to make more detailed risk assessments. Based on Human rights a pre-evaluation of a supplier’s social and environmental risk profile, Our process for responsible sourcing they may be selected for a third-party sustainability audit, conducted together with our purchaser. Social agenda Risk assessments and audits can be conducted prior to Any suspected SCoC non-conformances identified during pre-qualification and at any stage of the supplier contract. Employees and wider workforce supplier visits or audits or brought to our attention through our many grievance channels are duly investigated. The findings are Community discussed, and corrective action plans are devised together with Business ethics suppliers that must sign up to the plans. Our purchasers follow up on their implementation. If a supplier does not take the necessary corrective actions, new discussions are held to examine the Risk Environmental agenda assessment reasons, and at a higher management level if necessary. In cases when a supplier is not willing to improve their performance, Materials, water, and energy the relationship is terminated. Carbon dioxide Contractors Financials Forests, plantations, and land use Pre-qualification for new suppliers* Some of our suppliers are contractors hired for long-term work, such as in forest and plantation management, and others on a shorter-term basis, for example in large-scale investment or mill maintenance Economic agenda projects. Our SCoC and sourcing process applies to all contractors. Specify business need Tender Contract Customers While contractors are primarily responsible for their own employees, we strive to ensure that everyone working on our premises is treated Suppliers fairly and receives adequate safety training. Sustainability Investors criteria in tenders Pulp procurement Most of the pulp used in Stora Enso’s operations is produced Data and assurance internally at our mills. For specific quality and logistical reasons, a small proportion of the pulp for our paper and board production is Reporting scope CAP follow-up Audit and purchased from external suppliers. As with wood, we ensure that all Data by production unit and supplier corrective action the pulp we purchase is sustainably sourced. For more information development plan (CAP) about our wood procurement, see pages 48–54. Auditor’s assurance report Governance Paper for Recycling Stora Enso sources paper for recycling (PfR) from local authorities GRI Index * Not all pre-qualified suppliers enter our sourcing process. and waste management companies. For more details on our PfR use, Dedicated committees review and approve Stora Enso’s sourcing needs. see pages 34 and 37. 62 Stora Enso 2019: Sustainability – Economic agenda − Suppliers Strategy Annual Report 2019 Breakdown of raw material and service costs % of our total variable costs Fiber1 51% Logistics and commissions 16% Chemicals and fillers 15% Energy 9% Production services and materials 9% Sustainability 1 Wood, Paper for Recycling, and purchased pulp Governance Strategy, governance, and stakeholders Legend Value in % Exact value Our targets Sustainability Fiber1 51.0% 1 51% Adopting the SDGs Logistics and commissions 16.0% 1 16% Chemicals and fillers 15.0% 1 15% Human rights Energy 9.0% 1 9% CO2 data and to evaluate our suppliers’ carbon footprints. According Production services and materials 9.0% 1 9% to the results, approximately 200 (approximately 200 also in 2018) out Total 100% 1 of our approximately 1 300 (1 300) top suppliers by spend had publicly Social agenda reported their CO2 data in 2019. Employees and wider workforce Developments in sea logistics Community In 2019, Stora Enso joined the Clean Cargo Working Group, which Business ethics is a global initiative that promotes responsible shipping and aims to reduce the environmental impacts of transportation. During the year, we also signed a contract with an existing partner that Environmental agenda will decrease the environmental impact of our sea logistics in the Gulf of Bothnia, the Baltic Sea, and the North Sea. Vessels currently leased by Materials, water, and energy Stora Enso will become part of the supplier’s fleet, and two new vessels Carbon dioxide running on liquefied natural gas (LNG) will be added to the fleet by 2022. LNG does not contain sulphur and has lower CO2 emissions than fuel oil Financials Forests, plantations, and land use or diesel. Occasionally, people board our chartered sea logistics line from Central Europe to the Nordic countries unpermitted and undetected. Economic agenda In 2019, our sea logistics suppliers recorded three cases where a Customers In Brazil, our joint operation Veracel funds a programme to protect humpback whales near the Belmonte Maritime Terminal where the company ships out pulp. total of 11 people were found hiding. Detailed records show that all The programme includes the training of Veracel’s sea logistics suppliers to prevent collisions with whales. detected people were treated with dignity and respect onboard and Suppliers ensured a safe and humane return into the custody of local authorities Investors at their point of origin in Central Europe. For more information about Progress During 2019, we conducted three deep dives of specific supply how we manage potential human trafficking, see our annual Slavery chains. In Thailand, we reviewed our tapioca starch supply chain from and Human Trafficking Statement. Data and assurance Deeper understanding of supply chain sustainability the farmers to the plant that manufactures the starch we purchase. Stora Enso’s key performance indicator (KPI) for responsible sourcing In the United States, we completed a review of our supply chain for Improving supplier safety Reporting scope measures the proportion of our total supplier spend covered by our polylactic acid which is made from corn. We also conducted a deep Stora Enso’s commitment to safety also extends to our suppliers Data by production unit SCoC, including all categories and regions. By the end of 2019, dive of our corn-based starch supply chain in the Ukraine. Besides and contractors. In 2019, we piloted ‘Safety share’ to share details 96% of Stora Enso’s total spend on materials, goods, and services the lack of progressive sustainable farming practices in the Ukraine of a serious contractor accident and best practices to avoid Auditor’s assurance report was covered (95% at the end of 2018), which exceeds our target and slight concerns over chemical use in Thailand, no serious nonsimilar incidents – with other suppliers in the same category. Governance to maintain the level of 95%. Joint operations, intellectual property conformances were found in the deep dives. During Stora Enso’s Safety Week, we held our first safety webinar rights (IPR), leasing fees, financial trading, government fees such as Our efforts to automate the collection of supplier sustainability for suppliers to introduce key elements for safe operations and GRI Index customs, and wood purchases from private individual forest owners performance data continued in 2019. With search robotics and Stora Enso’s eight life-saving rules. In addition, we updated our Safety are not included in our total supplier spend. artificial intelligence, we are able to access publicly available supplier Trail e-learning tool to cover two new languages: Czech and Estonian. 63 We held a safety webinar Stora Enso 2019: Sustainability – Economic agenda − Suppliers Strategy Sourcing developments in China and the USA Annual Report 2019 for suppliers in 2019 to share Coal sourcing for Beihai Mill in China expertise on safe behaviour. In southern China, coal is currently the only feasible energy source for an industrial facility as large as Stora Enso’s Beihai Mill. However, as part of our long-term planning, we are investigating opportunities to use more renewable energy at the mill. For more information, see page 46. In 2019, we continued to look for more sustainable alternatives to coal. Sustainability Following a thorough supply chain audit and consequent corrective action plans in China, we found insufficient improvements made by our coal supplier during 2018. In December 2018, we Governance replaced them with a new supplier that has a significantly better Strategy, governance, and stakeholders sustainability performance and a railway connection to the port, Using a Group-wide safety reporting platform, we continuously which reduces the need for truck transport and improves road safety. Our targets Sustainability monitor contractor accidents to recognise patterns and to identify Adopting the SDGs those with an unacceptably high accident performance compared to Sourcing sugar industry by-products in the USA their peers. When such behaviour is indicated by statistics, we take Stora Enso’s demonstration plant in Raceland, Louisiana, USA, Human rights action to mitigate it. validates extraction and separation technologies by converting cellulosic biomass into highly refined xylose sugars. For feedstock, Auditing high-risk suppliers the plant purchases bagasse, a residual from the sugar-making Social agenda In 2019, Stora Enso’s third-party supplier audits continued to focus on process, from a nearby sugar mill. Employees and wider workforce suppliers with heightened sustainability risks, as identified by our risk Stora Enso has been monitoring labour rights in its bagasse supply assessment tool. Other focus areas were the chemical value chain, chain for several years to ensure that working hour schedules do not Community waste handling, Paper for Recycling, and land logistics. have adverse impacts on contractor health and safety. In 2019, our Business ethics During 2019, a total of 62 Stora Enso suppliers were audited long-term dialogue with the supplier led to significant progress in through third-party supplier audits (70 in 2018), including 17 audits adopting our SCoC requirements. We will continue to monitor and (18) through external audit schemes such as the HSEQ (Health, Safety, support our bagasse supplier in adopting our SCoC requirements, Environmental agenda Environment, and Quality management) audit cluster in Finland. while continuously pushing for improvements. Desktop reviews are an important part of our supply chain deep dives. The total number of audits in 2018 has been restated to include audits Materials, water, and energy from external audit schemes. In the HSEQ cluster, buyer companies Carbon dioxide such as Stora Enso use the platform to improve auditing efficiency by sharing results from their third-party supplier audits. The participating Financials Forests, plantations, and land use Stora Enso suppliers’ performance in safety, in particular, has improved significantly over the last three years. What’s in a supply chain? The supplier audits revealed non-conformances particularly Economic agenda related to working hours, basic worker rights, and emergency While all Stora Enso suppliers must commit to our Supplier Code Customers preparedness. Several non-conformances were also related to of Conduct, driving change with the suppliers’ suppliers remains missing documentation and policies. We create corrective action a challenge. To tackle this, our sourcing personnel uses “deep Suppliers plans for all non-conformances and follow up on them. In China, for dives” to have a closer look at supply chains where we have Investors example, a packaging supplier installed an additional exit in 2019 identified risk or that we simply want to learn more about. to improve fire safety in the dormitory building, as agreed in our “Deep dives focus on open dialogue and observe the full chain corrective action plan. of a product or service. They are not needed everywhere but for Data and assurance By the end of 2019, 28% of our identified high-risk supplier spend those supply chains that are spread across the globe and that may was covered by third-party supplier audits (24% in 2018). In our 2018 pose risks we’re not familiar with, it’s a great tool,” says Johanna Reporting scope report, the audit coverage was reported based on the number of Pirinen, Head of Sustainable Sourcing and Logistics at Stora Enso. Data by production unit suppliers, and the figure for 2018 has been restated for comparability. In 2019, we also conducted 50 supplier visits (23 in 2018). Auditor’s assurance report No supplier relationships were terminated in 2019 (none in 2018) Governance based on findings or follow-ups resulting from third-party audits or our own supplier visits. However, one contract was not renewed due GRI Index to business ethics challenges that were identified while investigating Read the full article at storaenso.com/sustainability a potential SCoC violation reported by our own organisation. 64 Stora Enso 2019: Sustainability – Economic agenda − Investors Strategy Annual Report 2019 Stora Enso issued its first Investors Green Bonds in 2019, collecting We strive to continuously improve our sustainability performance and reporting, SEK 6 billion and to keep investors informed of our Sustainability progress, ambitions, and future direction. Opportunities and challenges Governance Strategy, governance, and stakeholders Growing interest in sustainable investing Investors are increasingly recognising the importance of corporate Our targets Sustainability sustainability in their investment decision-making by exploring ways Adopting the SDGs to integrate environmental, social, and governance (ESG) performance into their investment strategies. In addition to the growing interest Human rights in sustainability aspects, including human rights, investors perceive sustainability as a valuable growth driver and/or competitive advantage for companies and sustainability reporting as an important Social agenda tool in identifying investment opportunities that can generate Employees and wider workforce long-term shareholder value. Hence, companies are encouraged to conduct their business more sustainably. Simultaneously, investors Community expect financial rewards from their investments. Business ethics At Stora Enso, we believe that long-term financial success results from truly sustainable business. Stora Enso’s Investor Relations work is guided by several laws and regulations, including the EU’s Market Environmental agenda Abuse Regulation (MAR), the Finnish Securities Markets Act, Nasdaq rules in Helsinki and Stockholm, and the standards of the Finnish Materials, water, and energy Financial Supervisory Authority. Carbon dioxide Our policies Financials Forests, plantations, and land use Guiding our Investor Relations Company policies and guidelines related to Stora Enso’s Investor Economic agenda Relations include our: Customers • Disclosure Policy – a set of rules covering all our communications with investors and other stakeholders. It encompasses insider Suppliers guidelines, closed periods, communications governance, and Investors communications procedures. • The Stora Enso Code – our code of conduct, applied to all our operations around the world, including Investor Relations. Data and assurance Reporting scope Data by production unit Auditor’s assurance report We believe that truly Governance GRI Index sustainable business results in long-term financial success. 65 Stora Enso 2019: Sustainability – Economic agenda − Investors Strategy How we work Sustainable finance and use of proceeds Stora Enso’s proportion of owned or managed lands in wood production Annual Report 2019 Stora Enso issued its first green bonds in February 2019, collecting and harvesting covered by forest certification schemes (our Forests, Sustainability as a key metric SEK 6 billion. In addition, a SEK 1 billion Green Loan was issued plantations, and land use KPI) increased to 98% in 2019 (96% in 2018). Many investors are committed to integrating ESG factors into their in May 2019. The proceeds of both were solely used for financing We continue to develop our green bond reporting approach to enable investments. Aspects of sustainability, such as global warming Stora Enso’s acquisition of forest assets in Sweden and were 100% the disclosure of impacts within relevant aspects of sustainability. and sustainable forest management, are important to Stora Enso’s allocated by the end of 2019. The forest assets will be managed In 2017, Stora Enso signed a Revolving Credit Facility (RCF) loan investors. Our main shareholders are long-term investors that place intensively, yet sustainably to utilise their full growth potential and where part of the pricing is based on Stora Enso’s ability to reduce high value on sustainable business practices, and continuously produce more fiber-based products, including Cross Laminated greenhouse gas emissions per tonne of pulp, paper, and board monitor and evaluate our performance. For more information on Timber (CLT), which can substitute non-renewable construction produced, in accordance with the Science Based Targets initiative. Sustainability how we create value through a sustainable business model, see materials and store carbon throughout its lifetime. This helps combat In 2019, Stora Enso was highly commended in the ‘Embedding Strategy 2019. For details of Stora Enso’s ownership distribution, global warming and creates value for society at large. an integrated approach’ category at the Finance for the Future Awards see Financials 2019. The acquired forest assets are 100% certified by FSC and PEFC by Accounting for Sustainability (A4S), where the Group’s climate Governance Timely and transparent communication with investors is a top and amount to 1.41 million hectares, including 1.14 million hectares leadership was also recognised. Stora Enso also signed the A4S Net Strategy, governance, and stakeholders priority for Stora Enso. We actively maintain open dialogue with our of productive forest land. As a consequence of the acquisition, zero statement of support by Accounting for Sustainability. investors on ESG matters through face-to-face meetings, conference Our targets Sustainability calls, seminars, roadshow meetings, and webcasts. We also regularly Adopting the SDGs share updated information on our sustainability performance with investors in our Interim and Annual Reports, stakeholder letters, web Human rights updates, and investor newsletters. We participate in sustainability events of interest to investors. For more information about our investor relations, see storaenso.com/investors. Social agenda Stora Enso’s Sustainable Finance strategy is an integrated part Employees and wider workforce of our overall strategy. Stora Enso aims to have access to sufficient and competitively priced funding at any time to be able to pursue Community its strategy and achieve its targets. In order to accomplish this, Business ethics our emphasis is on debt capital markets funding. In the long-term, Stora Enso’s aim is to secure funding partners that have sustainability as a fundamental part of their agenda. We aim to influence and Environmental agenda develop the financial markets to ensure that sustainability becomes an integral part of decisions and credit evaluation. Materials, water, and energy Stora Enso has a Green Bond Framework as part of its Sustainable Carbon dioxide Finance strategy. The ambition is to offer a type of loan that supports sustainability-focused fixed-income investors, and to report the Financials Forests, plantations, and land use direct environmental impacts of specific investments and business activities. The Green Bond framework is based on and aligned with the international Green Bond Principles (GBP) formulated by the Economic agenda International Capital Market Association. The framework lists the Sustainable funding with green bonds Customers possibilities and limitations of the project categories that Stora Enso has defined as eligible for green funding. Interest in ESG (environmental, social, and governmental) Suppliers issues and general awareness of sustainability topics is Investors Progress growing among all investors. For Stora Enso, sustainable funding is more than responding to trends, as sustainability is ESG topics embedded into investor relations activities already integrated into everything we do within the company. Data and assurance During the year, we continued our strategy to enhance the availability “Green bonds are basically loans that are earmarked for of ESG information to investors, and to prioritise Stora Enso’s investments in sustainable projects. The green bonds we Reporting scope participation in questionnaires and assessments for the ESG index issue give investors an opportunity to invest in projects that Data by production unit and ratings schemes that are most material for our investors. are controlled and managed by Stora Enso in order to provide In 2019, Stora Enso organised an Investor Day and provided an sustainable solutions for the climate and environment,” Auditor’s assurance report update on our strategy, including a detailed review of Wood Products explains Pasi Kyckling, SVP, Group Treasury at Stora Enso. Governance and Nordic forests, and published its carbon substitution potential. Read more at storaenso.com/investors. GRI Index For more information about our investor activities during the year, Read the full article at storaenso.com/sustainability Cross-laminated timber replaces non-renewable materials in see Capital Markets in Financials 2019. the construction industry. 66 ESG indices and other external recognition in 2019 Stora Enso 2019: Sustainability – Economic agenda – External recognition Strategy Annual Report 2019 Euronext Vigeo Transition Pathway Initiative (TPI) WBCSD Stora Enso is listed in the Euronext Vigeo Stora Enso is top-ranked in greenhouse Stora Enso’s Sustainability Report 2018 Europe, and Eurozone 120 indices as one gas management and performance was included in the top ten sustainability of the 120 most advanced companies by the TPI. An asset owner-led and reports globally according to the 2019 in terms of environmental, social, and asset manager-supported global Reporting matters publication by the Sustainability governance performance. initiative, the TPI assesses companies’ World Business Council for Sustainable preparedness for transition to a low carbon Development (WBCSD). economy, supporting efforts to address Governance climate change. Strategy, governance, and stakeholders Ethibel Stora Enso is a constituent of the Ethibel Sustainability Reporting Awards Finland Our targets Sustainability Sustainability Index (ESI) Excellence Europe. Stora Enso’s Sustainability Report Adopting the SDGs The ESI indices are composed of companies CDP 2018 was chosen as the best in that display the best performance in the field Stora Enso is included in CDP’s Climate Finland in a competition organised Human rights of corporate social responsibility. List, which identifies the global companies by an independent group of that are taking leadership in climate action. expert organisations. Social agenda Employees and wider workforce FTSE4Good Index Stora Enso is included in the FTSE4Good STOXX ESG indices ReportWatch Community Index Series. These indices measure the Stora Enso is included in several Stora Enso’s Annual report 2018, Business ethics performance of companies demonstrating STOXX ESG indices. These indices including the Sustainability report, received strong environmental, social, and rate leading global companies the highest A+ ranking among more than governance practices. according to environmental, social, 300 reports globally. Environmental agenda and governance criteria. Materials, water, and energy Carbon dioxide MSCI Stockholm School of Economics In 2019, Stora Enso received a rating of Equileap Stora Enso received the highest score Financials Forests, plantations, and land use AA in the MSCI ESG Ratings assessment. Ranked globally at number 29, Stora Enso in the 2019 ‘Walking the talk’ study on Stora Enso is included in several of MSCI’s was also rated the best performing Finnish sustainability communications by the ESG indices. company and best in our industry in gender Mistra Center for Sustainable Markets Economic agenda balance and gender equality by Equileap. (Misum) at the Stockholm School of Customers Economics. The study included 95 Large Cap companies at the Stockholm Suppliers ECPI Ethical Indices stock exchange. Investors Stora Enso is included in the ECPI Ecovadis EMU Ethical Equity index, which Stora Enso was included in the top 1% covers environmental, social, and (industry suppliers) of the Ecovadis ethical Data and assurance governance criteria. supplier rating system, and achieved the Most sustainable company 2019 highest recognition level (Gold). Stora Enso was ranked the most Reporting scope sustainable listed company in our sector Data by production unit in Sweden by Dagens Industri, Aktuell Hållbarhet, and Lund University School of Auditor’s assurance report OMX Sustainability Finland index Economics and Management. We were Governance Stora Enso is included in the NASDAQ also ranked overall best in the category OMX Sustainability Finland index. for ‘Climate and environment.’ GRI Index Annual Report 2019 The world needs Strategy a new approach Sustainability Governance to materials. Strategy, governance, and stakeholders Our targets Sustainability Adopting the SDGs Human rights Social agenda Employees and wider workforce Community Business ethics Environmental agenda Materials, water, and energy Carbon dioxide Financials Forests, plantations, and land use Economic agenda Customers Suppliers Data and assurance Investors Data and assurance Reporting scope Reporting scope 68 Data by production unit Data by production unit 69 Auditor’s assurance report Governance Auditor’s assurance report 72 GRI Index 68 Reporting scope Stora Enso 2019: Sustainability – Data and assurance – Reporting scope Strategy The divestment of Dawang paper mill in China was completed in Annual Report 2019 October. The closure of Kitee sawmill was concluded in September. Both units are still included in our annual sustainability reporting for 2019 as applicable. The divestment of Dawang or closure of Kitee do At Stora Enso, we regularly review the priorities not have material impact on the Group’s consolidated sustainability in our Sustainability Agenda and ensure that performance figures. For more information on the Group’s acquisitions and disposals, see note 4 in Financials 2019. our reporting duly addresses them. When In 2019, our Wood Products division inaugurated a new production defining the materiality of issues impacting our unit for Cross Laminated Timber (CLT) at Gruvön sawmill in Sweden, Sustainability sustainable business model, we consider the which is included in the reporting. In our environmental and energy reporting, divestments and expectations of our major internal and external closures are managed according to the international Greenhouse Governance stakeholders. For more information on our Gas Protocol. This means that figures for historical performance are recalculated following the removal of divested units from the Strategy, governance, and stakeholders approach to materiality, see page 7. baseline when necessary. However, closed units are included Our targets Sustainability in the environmental and energy targets and trend calculation Adopting the SDGs baselines, as per internationally accepted rules. Human rights Data boundaries Unless otherwise stated, the Group’s consolidated performance In accordance with the GRI Standards data expressed in this report covers the parent company, Stora Enso We also prepare our reporting in accordance with the GRI Oyj, and all companies in which we hold over 50% of voting rights Sustainability Reporting Standards: Core option. Our reporting covers Social agenda directly or indirectly. The consolidated figures and our reporting on all the General Disclosures as well as the topic-specific GRI Standards Employees and wider workforce human rights, safety, community, and forests, plantations, and land we deem material. Our GRI Content Index lists our disclosures with use also include the 50% owned joint operations Veracel in Brazil and reference to the GRI Standards and refers to the locations where Community Montes del Plata in Uruguay, due to their materiality to the Group’s these issues are addressed in our reporting. The location references Business ethics sustainability impacts and stakeholder interest. Otherwise the are complemented in the index with additional information, such as consolidated figures do not include equity-accounted investments reasons for omission as necessary. where Stora Enso’s ownership is between 20% and 50%, or equity Impacts that make sustainability topics relevant to us may Environmental agenda investments in which our ownership share is less than 20%. occur outside operations owned by Stora Enso, or they may only Consolidated environmental and energy data covers our production be material for some of our operations or locations. When our Materials, water, and energy units. Stora Enso’s sawmills and converting facilities are excluded reporting on a sustainability disclosure only concerns specific units, Carbon dioxide from water, energy, and certain CO2 indicators that are normalised per geographical regions or other data collection boundaries, based tonne of sales production unless otherwise specified in the respective on the identified materiality, this is specified in connection with the Financials Forests, plantations, and land use footnotes. This is due to the lower materiality of sawmills and converting respective disclosure. facilities in the Group’s related performance and different metrics for sales production (cubic metre and square metre, respectively), External assurance Economic agenda compared with board, pulp, and paper mills (tonnes). This report has been verified by an independent third-party Customers Human Resources (HR) data is derived from separately collected assurance provider in accordance with the voluntary external statistics. Unlike in our financial reporting, consolidated HR data in assurance practices followed in sustainability reporting. The Suppliers this Sustainability report excludes employees of our 50% owned joint assurance report appears on page 72. PwC has provided a limited Investors operations Montes del Plata and Veracel. The HR data presented level of assurance covering the entire contents of this report, based on covers our permanent and temporary employees as of 31 December an assessment of materiality and risk. For the fifth year running, a level 2019 and are expressed as a headcount (rounded to the nearest 10). of reasonable assurance has been provided for Stora Enso’s reporting Data and assurance Certain administrative functions and sales offices are not included in on direct and indirect fossil CO2e emissions (Scopes 1 and 2). the Group’s consolidated occupational health and safety (OHS) data Reporting scope due to availability and lower occupational safety risk compared to The UN Global Compact Data by production unit production units. Stora Enso supports the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact, an initiative set up in 2000 to encourage businesses Auditor’s assurance report Significant changes in scope during 2019 worldwide to embed responsibility into their operations. We respect Governance In 2019, the shareholders of Bergvik Skog AB, a Swedish forest and promote these principles throughout our operations and report holding company, finalised the previously announced restructuring of on our progress in this report. We annually upload our Communication GRI Index its ownership. Stora Enso’s Swedish forest holdings are consolidated on Progress to the UN Global Compact website as a public record of in the Group’s annual sustainability reporting for 2019 as material. our commitment. 69 Data by production unit Stora Enso 2019: Sustainability – Data and assurance – Data by production unit Strategy Annual Report 2019 This table presents unit-specific information on environmental performance, production, certificates, and numbers of employees. Sustainability Certificates Fossil CO2 emissions PEFCTM/CFCC CoC Governance ISO 14001 ISO 22000 FSSC 22000 ISO 50001 OHSAS 18001 ISO45001d) FSC® CoC Strategy, governance, and stakeholders ISO 9001 Process Carbon neutral Process Our targets Number of Production Recovered waste to Hazardous NOx as Direct Indirect CO2, on-site CO2, biomass water Sustainability employeesa) capacityb) Products fiberc) FDA landfill wastee) SO2f) NO2 CO2g) CO2g) transportg) fuelsg) COD AOX Phosphorus Nitrogen discharges Adopting the SDGs Unit 1 000 t t t t t t t t t t t t t 1 000 m3 Human rights Belgium Langerbrugge 333 555 4 x x x x x x x 18 011 55 2 270 128 019 21 661 1 447 425 430 1 105 0.90 7.5 57.6 6 819 China Beihai 403 470 1 x x x x x x x x 272 9 143 207 463 335 13 654 1 068 43 619 211 1.5 12.1 5 478 Social agenda Dawangh) 169 140 4 x x x x x 53 028 1 445 Employees and wider workforce Dongguan 961 30* 3 x x x x 20 4 673 15 12 0.0 0.0 0.7 Jiashan 317 20* 3 x x x x 3 1 451 3 0.0 0.0 0.0 4 Community Qian’an 1 747 25* 3 x x x x 16 8 438 24 0.0 0.0 0.0 2 Business ethics Wujin 583 10* 3 1 39 2 715 2 1 Estonia Tallinn 36 18* 3 x x x x x 3 95 937 10 2 Finland Environmental agenda Anjala/Ingerois 548 435/280 4 1 x x x xi) x x x x 107 9 269 94 586 74 316 1 422 154 892 1 822 2.6 62.6 8 910 Materials, water, and energy Enocell 265 490 2 x x x x x x 7 834 50 82 815 72 518 920 129 1 462 413 9 773 59.6 2.7 53.2 23 466 Heinola Fluting 213 300 1 x x x x x x x 365 137 434 320 118 900 7 737 141 210 067 1 142 2.0 24.4 1 363 Carbon dioxide Imatra 1 301 1 280 1 2 x x x x x x x x x 188 361 113 1 902 173 336 53 155 1 345 2 123 853 20 103 86.0 16.0 209.0 65 206 Financials Forests, plantations, and land use Kristiinankaupunki 54 20* 3 x x x x x x 1 149 62 1 Lahti 258 130* 3 x x x x x x 347 4 805 114 3 0.0 0.3 25 Oulu 730 1 080 4 2 x x x x x x 43 389 299 973 234 106 18 231 2 736 1 094 368 7 258 34.3 10.4 85.8 19 805 Sunila 231 375 2 5 x x x x x x 5 061 349 80 604 29 905 3 103 552 747 178 5 687 37.0 6.6 13.2 15 838 Economic agenda Varkaus 307 390 1 x x x x x x x x 2 031 234 96 458 54 373 12 981 301 698 184 1 590 3.9 62.5 16 081 Customers Veitsiluoto 695 790 4 x x xj) x x x x 1 368 24 327 1 064 214 527 21 792 288 1 087 810 9 495 29.0 9.5 139.7 10 706 Germany Suppliers Maxau 425 530 4 x x x x x x x 244 4 186 87 209 189 151 1 355 776 1 627 0.3 3.2 8.5 5 027 Investors Sachsen 250 310 4 2 x x x x x x x 8 2 140 154 867 5 833 718 31 190 680 0.5 0.5 14.4 3 390 Latvia Riga 168 105* 3 x x x x x x 77 2 2 070 604 191 16 Lithuania Data and assurance Kaunas 53 20* 3 x x x x x 1 263 63 2 Reporting scope Data by production unit Auditor’s assurance report Governance GRI Index 70 Stora Enso 2019: Sustainability – Data and assurance – Data by production unit Strategy Certificates Fossil CO2 emissions Annual Report 2019 OHSAS 18001 PEFCTM/CFCC CoC ISO 9001 ISO 14001 ISO 22000 FSSC 22000 ISO 50001 ISO45001d) FSC® CoC Process Carbon neutral Process Number of Production Recovered waste to Hazardous NOx as Direct Indirect CO2, on-site CO2, biomass water employeesa) capacityb) Products fiberc) FDA landfill wastee) SO2f) NO2 CO2g) CO2g) transportg) fuelsg) COD AOX Phosphorus Nitrogen discharges Unit 1 000 t t t t t t t t t t t t t 1 000 m3 Poland Sustainability Łódz 276 135* 3 x x x x x x 1 3 3 289 1 080 Mosina 98 20* 3 x x x x x x 109 421 38 1 Ostrołeka Corrugatedk) 255 145* 3 x x x x x x x 2 4 657 108 Governance Ostrołeka 1 4 Containerboardk) 1 019 723 x x x x x 37 387 359 283 376 1 633 406 663 887 5.4 24.7 9 916k) Strategy, governance, and stakeholders Tychy 173 135* 3 x x x x x x 4 3 031 173 12 Our targets Russia Sustainability Arzamas 166 100* 3 x x x x 18 8 1 6 3 223 14 054 80 31 Adopting the SDGs Balabanovo 334 165* 3 x x x x 5 1 3 4 880 21 880 102 25 Human rights Lukhovitsy 137 100* 3 x x x x 5 2 2 672 14 717 127 18 Sweden Falu Rödfärg l) 6 x x 8 575 387 Fors 541 455 x x x x x x x x 121 7 88 82 602 223 807 1 848 0.5 1.2 27.5 4 516 Social agenda 1 Hylte 423m) 480 4 x x x x x x x 23 725 71 178 3 397 106 856 281 604 770 1.4 2.1 31.9 5 271 Employees and wider workforce Jönköping 179 100* 3 x x x x 39 200 527 21 11 Kvarnsveden 472 385 4 x x x x x x 133 19 104 14 337 237 1 207 493 1 841 0.7 2.0 40.5 7 358 Community Nymölla 569 485 4 2 x x x x x x 85 543 474 2 553 57 1 790 701 204 11 656 0.5 4.7 71.6 27 828 Business ethics Skene 153 100* 3 x x x 3 19 7 15 Skoghall 732 875 1 x x x x x x x x 3 093 494 164 449 55 819 134 1 632 961 646 10 070 19.3 10.5 102.2 26 281 Skoghall (Forshaga) 104 120 1 x x x x x x x x x 11 966 3 150 Skutskär 400 540 2 x x x x x x 42 125 817 100 25 1 469 1 156 078 5 781 36.9 20.2 106.0 19 126 Environmental agenda Vikingstad 69 75* 3 x x x 1 1 075 60 1 1 Materials, water, and energy Total board, pulp, paper, Carbon dioxide converted products 11 498n) 62 013 12 218 2 840 9 691 2 207 720 555 309 19 358 12 373 275 93 362 307 112 1 148 282 995 Financials Forests, plantations, and land use Total, wood products o) Wood products unitsn) p) p) p) p) p) p) p) p) p) p) 6 209 1 174 27 485 5 029 105 249 19 056 486 715 Grand Total All units 68 223 13 392 2 866 10 176 2 212 749 660 558 38 413 12 859 990 93 362 307 112 1 148 282 995 Economic agenda a) Yearly average as full-time equivalents. h) The divestment of Dawang paper mill was completed in October 2019. Products: Customers b) Production capacities of integrated pulp, paper, and board mills only include paper i) Covers only board production at Ingerois. 1 board and packaging paper and board production capacities. j) Covers only PM5. 2 market pulp Suppliers c) Mills using recovered fiber as raw material (fully or partly). k) Water discharges reported together from both Ostrołeka units. 3 converted products (e.g. cores, corrugated board) d) The new certificate ISO 45001 will gradually replace the OHSAS 18001. l) Does not have its own personnel but hires personnel from Stora Enso AB. 4 paper Investors e) Reported on the basis of country-specific definitions applied in national regulations. m) Number of biocomposite production line employees is included. See separate table 5 lignin f) Total sulphur is reported as sulphur dioxide (SO2) equivalent, but includes all for Wood Products units for biocomposite production data. 6 red paint pigment sulphurous compounds. n) Excluding total corrugated board capacity 1 368 million m2. g) All CO2 figures are calculated using the WRI/WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Protocol and o) Production capacities for sawn timber 5 830 000 m3 and for wood pellets 495 000 t. The figure 0 (zero) in the table signifies that such discharges, emissions, or waste did Scope 2 Guidance. p) See separate table for Wood Products units. not occur or they were below the Group’s reporting threshold. Where cells are left blank, Data and assurance this signifies that the parameter is considered as not relevant for that unit. Certificate documents can be found at storaenso.com/certificates Reporting scope * million m2 Data by production unit Auditor’s assurance report Governance GRI Index 71 Stora Enso 2019: Sustainability – Data and assurance – Data by production unit Strategy Capacities Certificates Fossil CO2 emissions Annual Report 2019 Process Carbon neutral Number of Sawn Further Wood ISO ISO ISO OHSAS FSC® PEFCTM waste to Hazardous NOx as Direct Indirect CO2, on-site CO2 biomass employeesa) products processed CLT pellets LVL Biocomposite 9001 14001 50001 18001 CoC CoC SBP landfill wasteb) SO2c) NO2 CO2d) CO2d) transportationd) fuelsd) Unit 1 000 m3 1 000 m3 1 000 m3 1 000 t 1 000 m3 1 000 t t t t t t t t t Wood products units Austria Bad St. Leonhard 256 360 105 80 x x x x x x 48 4 3 Brand 209 440 295 x x x x x x 50 3 Ybbs 404 700 450 100 x x x x x x 88 8 3 Sustainability Czech Republic Planá 238 390 220 x x x x x x 414 53 0.3 55 1 827 22 651 Ždírec 253 580 220 80 x x x x x x 3 396 26 2.4 110 2 400 127 527 Governance Estonia Imavere 312 340 160 100 x x x x x x x 4 79 4.3 44 45 773 1 697 55 284 Strategy, governance, and stakeholders Näpi 94 50 180 23 x x x x x x 26 42 0.6 6 34 10 728 299 4 917 Our targets Finland Sustainability Adopting the SDGs Honkalahti 115 310 70 x x x x x x 35 0.6 24 67 2 487 988 43 391 Kiteee) 93 260 110 25 x x x x x x 6 0.2 13 1 438 350 29 256 Human rights Uimaharju 67 240 20 x x x x x x 5 0.0 1 950 679 Varkaus 120 150 35 75 x x x x x x 27 4 495 810 Veitsiluotof) 57 200 x x x x x x 10.3 19 4 979 554 Social agenda Germany Pfarrkirchen 102 145 x x x x x x 9 1.8 13 256 5 545 Employees and wider workforce Latvia Launkalne 151 200 20 x x x x x x 3 27 534 1 573 1 119 25 102 Community Lithuania Business ethics Alytus 250 210 115 x x x x x x 22 1.7 14 2 599 1 075 25 414 The Netherlands Amsterdam 47 80 x x x x x x 1 13 1 044 1 Environmental agenda Poland Murow 275 300 210 x x x x x x 624 2.7 16 10 619 1 332 11 532 Materials, water, and energy Russia Impilahti 124 150 10 25 x x x x x x 9 5 197 1 286 22 781 Carbon dioxide Nebolchi 178 180 45 42 x x x x x x x 2 370 0.5 44 8 314 1 164 23 855 Financials Forests, plantations, and land use Sweden Ala 147 400 50 100 x x x x x x 42 1.2 75 10 1 839 89 461 Gruvöng) 178 370 150 25 100 x x x x x x x 15 0.1 3 4 381 4 014 1 370 Economic agenda Hylte 19 15 x x x x x x 29 Wood products units Customers total 5 830 2 690 205 495 75 15 6 209 1 174 27 485 5 029 105 249 19 056 486 715 Suppliers a) Yearly average as full-time equivalents. b) Reporting is based on country-specific definitions applied in national regulations. Investors c) Total sulphur is reported as sulphur dioxide (SO2) equivalent, but includes all sulphurous compounds. d) All CO2 figures are calculated using the WRI/WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Protocol and Scope 2 Guidance. e) The permanent closure of Kitee sawmill was concluded in September 2019. f) Sawing capacity reported with Paper Division. g) CLT production was started at Gruvön sawmill in May 2019. Data and assurance Certificate documents can be found at storaenso.com/certificates. Reporting scope Data by production unit Auditor’s assurance report Governance GRI Index 72 Auditor’s Stora Enso 2019: Sustainability – Data and assurance – Assurance report Strategy We have been engaged by the Board of Directors and the Group We believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufficient Annual Report 2019 Leadership Team of Stora Enso Oyj (hereafter Stora Enso) to and appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusions below. assurance report provide limited assurance on Stora Enso’s Sustainability report The conclusion based on our limited assurance procedures does 2019 as a whole, and reasonable assurance on Stora Enso’s direct not comprise the same level of assurance as the conclusion of our and indirect (scopes 1+2) fossil CO2 emissions as disclosed in reasonable assurance procedures. Since this assurance engagement the Sustainability report. is combined, our conclusions regarding the reasonable assurance and To the Board of Directors and Management of Stora Enso Oyj the limited assurance procedures are presented separately below. Responsibilities of the Board and Management The Board of Directors and Group Leadership Team of Stora Enso Our independence and quality control Sustainability are responsible for preparing the Sustainability report in accordance We have complied with the independence and other ethical with the Reporting Criteria as set out in the Company’s reporting requirements of the “Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants” instructions, including the Sustainability Reporting Standards of the issued by the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants, Governance Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and the Greenhouse Gas Protocol which is founded on fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, Strategy, governance, and stakeholders for CO2 emissions. This responsibility includes the internal control professional competence and due care, confidentiality and relevant to the preparation of a Sustainability report that is free from professional behaviour. Our targets Sustainability material misstatements, whether due to fraud or error. PricewaterhouseCoopers applies International Standard on Quality Adopting the SDGs Control (ISQC) 1 and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system Human rights Responsibilities of the Auditor of quality control including documented policies and procedures Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the Sustainability regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional report based on the procedures we have performed and the evidence standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. we have obtained. Our assignment is limited to the historical Social agenda information that is presented and thus does not include futureConclusions Employees and wider workforce oriented information. We do not accept, or assume responsibility to Based on the limited assurance procedures we have performed, anyone else, except to Stora Enso for our work, for this report, or for nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that Community the conclusions that we have reached. the Sustainability report is not prepared, in all material respects, Business ethics We conducted the assurance engagement in accordance with in accordance with the Reporting Criteria. the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) In our opinion, Stora Enso’s direct and indirect (scopes 1+2) 3000, “Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of fossil CO2 emissions which have been subject to our reasonable Environmental agenda Historical Financial Information”, to provide limited assurance on assurance procedures have, in all material respects, been prepared the Sustainability report as a whole, and in accordance with ISAE in accordance with the Reporting Criteria. Materials, water, and energy 3410, “Assurance Engagements on Greenhouse Gas Statements”, Carbon dioxide to provide reasonable assurance on direct and indirect (scopes 1+2) fossil CO2 emissions as disclosed in the Sustainability report. These Financials Forests, plantations, and land use standards require that we plan and perform the engagement to obtain the appropriate level of assurance that the information examined is free from material misstatement. Economic agenda A reasonable assurance engagement includes examining, Helsinki, 11 February 2020 Customers on a test basis, evidence supporting the selected information in PricewaterhouseCoopers the Sustainability report. We have evaluated the effectiveness of Suppliers internal controls and the processes for collecting and consolidating Investors CO2 emissions data, and performed testing on a sample basis to evaluate whether the CO2 emissions are reported according to the Reporting Criteria. Data and assurance A limited assurance engagement consists of making inquiries, Samuli Perälä primarily of persons responsible for the preparation of the Authorized Public Accountant Reporting scope Sustainability report, reviewing documentation, and applying Data by production unit analytical and other limited assurance procedures based on the auditor’s judgement. In addition, we have performed site visits to Auditor’s assurance report Langerbrugge (Belgium) and Ostrołeka (Poland) to review compliance Governance with reporting policies, assess the reliability of local reporting process, and test data collected for sustainability reporting purposes on Fredrik Ljungdahl GRI Index a sample basis. Sustainability Reporting Specialist Strategy Annual Report 2019 Financials Financials includes the report Part of Stora Enso’s Annual Report 2019 of the Board of Directors and the financial statements, as well as Stora Enso in capital markets and our tax footprint. Sustainability Financials Governance Strategy Annual Report 2019 Dividend proposal per share Operational ROCE EUR 0.50 9.8% Contents Stora Enso in 2019 ..........................................................................2 Consolidated cash flow statement .................................................23 Note 22 Other provisions .............................................................55 Supplemental cash flow information ..............................................24 Note 23 Operative liabilities .........................................................56 Report of the Board of Directors ..................................................3 Statement of changes in equity ......................................................25 Note 24 Financial risk management ............................................56 Stora Enso introduction ....................................................................3 Sustainability Note 25 Fair values .......................................................................60 Markets and deliveries ......................................................................3 Note 26 Interest-bearing liabilities ...............................................63 Operational key figures, items affecting Notes to the consolidated financial statements ......................26 comparability and other non-IFRS measures ..................................3 Note 27 Derivatives ......................................................................65 Note 1 Accounting principles.....................................................26 Financial results – Group ..................................................................4 Note 28 Cumulative translation adjustment Note 2 Critical accounting estimates and judgement ...............28 and equity hedging .........................................................69 Financial results – Segments ............................................................6 Note 3 Segment information ......................................................29 Note 29 Commitments and contingencies..................................70 Investments and capital expenditure ...............................................7 Note 4 Acquisitions and disposals ............................................33 Note 30 Principal subsidiaries and joint operations ....................72 Innovation, research and development ............................................8 Note 5 Other operating income and expense ...........................34 Note 31 Related party transactions .............................................73 Non-financial information .................................................................9 Note 6 Personnel expenses .......................................................35 Note 32 Earnings per share and equity per share ....................... 74 Risks and risk management ...........................................................10 Note 7 Board and executive remuneration ................................36 Climate-related financial disclosures (TCFD) ................................16 Note 8 Net financial items ..........................................................38 Parent company Stora Enso Oyj financial statements ...........75 Legal proceedings .......................................................................... 17 Note 9 Income taxes ..................................................................38 Notes to the parent company financial statements ................77 Changes in organisational structure Note 10 Depreciation, amortisation and and Group management................................................................. 17 impairment charges .......................................................39 Signatures for the financial statements....................................85 Share capital ................................................................................... 17 Note 11 Intangible assets and property, Auditor’s report.............................................................................86 Financials Outlook and short-term risks ..........................................................19 plant and equipment and right-of-use assets ...............42 Stora Enso in capital markets .....................................................89 Events after the balance sheet date ...............................................19 Note 12 Biological assets ............................................................44 Shares and shareholders................................................................89 Proposal for the distribution of dividend ........................................19 Note 13 Equity accounted investments.......................................46 Debt investors .................................................................................94 Annual General Meeting .................................................................19 Note 14 Equity instruments..........................................................48 Non-IFRS measures .......................................................................19 Note 15 Other non-current assets ...............................................49 Stora Enso as a taxpayer .............................................................95 Calculation of key figures ................................................................20 Note 16 Inventories ......................................................................49 Capacities by mill in 2020 ............................................................97 Note 17 Operative receivables.....................................................49 Note 18 Shareholders’ equity ......................................................50 Information for shareholders ...................................................100 Consolidated financial statements............................................21 Note 19 Non-controlling interests ...............................................50 Consolidated income statement ....................................................21 Note 20 Post-employment benefits.............................................50 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income ......................21 Unaudited Note 21 Employee variable compensation Consolidated statement of financial position ................................22 Limited assurance Print optimised and equity incentive schemes........................................54 A4 Governance In this report: This publication consists of both audited and unaudited contents. The audited parts include the consolidated financial statements, the parent company financial statements, and the notes to the financial statements. The unaudited Download printable PDF of parts – such as Stora Enso in 2019, the Report of the Board of Directors, Stora Enso in capital markets, and Stora Enso as a taxpayer – are marked with a symbol on the top of the page. The contents of Stora Enso as a taxpayer have been assured by Stora Enso’s Annual Report 2019 an independent third-party assurance provider with a level of Limited Assurance. The official audited financial statements in Finnish and an unofficial Swedish translation can be found on the company website storaenso.com/download-centre 2 Stora Enso 2019: Financials – Stora Enso in 2019 Strategy Unaudited Annual Report 2019 Stora Enso in 2019 Why to invest in Stora Enso Key figures Financials 2019 2018 Change Target Part of the bioeconomy, Stora Enso is a leading global provider of renewable solutions in packaging, biomaterials, wooden construction and paper. Our fiberSales, EUR million 10 055 10 486 -4.1% Stora Enso in 2019 based materials are renewable, recyclable and fossil free. Our solutions offer Operational EBITDA, EUR million 1 542 1 878 -17.9% low-carbon alternatives to products based on finite resources. We believe that Report of the everything that is made from fossil-based materials today can be made from a tree Operational EBIT, EUR million 953 1 325 -28.1% Board of Directors Sustainability tomorrow. Stora Enso is well-positioned for profitable growth: In a long-term, we Operational EBIT margin 9.5% 12.6% estimate our annual sales to increase 6-8%, excluding Paper, and have a target of Operating profit (IFRS), EUR million 1 305 1 390 -6.1% Consolidated financial above 13% for operational return on capital employed (ROCE) for the Group. We have statements a strong cash flow generation and we aim to maintain the capex at the targeted level, Net profit for the period, EUR million 856 988 -13.4% at or below depreciation and depletion over the business cycle. Stora Enso is well Net interest-bearing liabilities, EUR million 3 209 2 092 53.4% Notes to the Consolidated within the targeted level of debt to equity (less than 60%) and close to the targeted Operational ROCE, % 9.8% 15.5% >13% level of net debt to operational EBITDA (below 2.0x). Stora Enso has a dividend policy financial statements to distribute 50% of earnings per share (EPS) over the cycle. EPS (basic), EUR 1.12 1.28 -13.1% Parent Company Stora Enso Net debt/last 12 months’ operational EBITDA ratio 2.1 1.1 <2.0 Oyj financial statements Stora Enso shares are listed on Nasdaq Helsinki Oy (STEAV, STERV) and Net debt/equity ratio 0.43 0.31 <0.60 Nasdaq Stockholm AB (STE A, STE R). In addition, the shares are traded in Fixed costs to sales, % 24.3% 23.6% <20% Notes to the parent company the USA as ADRs (SEOAY). financial statements Signatures for the financial Sales 2019 Ownership distribution, % of shares held Share price performance and volumes statements Helsinki, Stora Enso R Financials Consumer Board 25% Solidium Oy¹ 10.7% Number of shares, Share price Auditor’s report Packaging Solutions 12% FAM AB² 10.2% million (EUR) Biomaterials 15% Social Insurance Institution 125 20 Stora Enso in capital markets Wood Products 16% of Finland (KELA) 3.1% 100 16 Paper 28% Finnish institutions (excl. Solidium and KELA) 12.5% Stora Enso as a taxpayer Other and eliminations 4% Swedish institutions 75 12 (excl. FAM) 9.3% 50 8 Capacities by mill in 2020 Finnish private shareholders 4.4% 25 4 Swedish private Information for shareholders shareholders 4.2% 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Operational EBIT 2019 ADR holders 1.8% Volume Under nominee names Monthly average share price Consumer Board 26% (non-Finnish/non-Swedish Legend Value in % shareholders) 43.8% Packaging Solutions 14% Consumer Board 25% XX% ¹ Entirely owned by Finnish state. Packaging Solutions Biomaterials 24% 12% XX% ² As conﬁrmed to Stora Enso. BiomaterialsWood Products 11% 15% XX% Governance Wood ProductsPaper 22%16% XX% PaperOther and eliminations 2% 28% XX% Other and eliminations 4% XX% Total 100% Legend Value in % Data can be found in graph 68 Solidium Oy¹ 10.7% XX% FAM AB² 10.2% XX% Social Insurance Institution of Finland (KELA) 3.1% XX% Finnish institutions (excl. Solidium and KELA) 12.5% XX% Swedish institutions 3 Stora Enso 2019: Financials – Report of the Board of Directors Strategy Unaudited Annual Report 2019 Report of the Board of Directors Stora Enso introduction demand conditions in paper and board sector remain difficult Estimated consumption of board, pulp, Financials in 2019. By the end of the year, inventories were approaching sawn softwood, and paper in 2019 Part of the bioeconomy, Stora Enso (the Group or the Company) the normal levels thanks to production curtailments. There were North Asia and is a leading global provider of renewable solutions in packaging, numerous closures in Western Europe during 2019, especially in Tonnes, million Europe America Oceania Stora Enso in 2019 biomaterials, wooden construction and paper. Our customers include woodfree paper sector. Global tissue output also grew below trend Consumer board 11.0 9.4 26.3 packaging manufacturers, brand owners, paper and board producers, as developing markets mature. Containerboard 33.6 31.5 79.1 Report of the publishers, retailers, printing houses, converters, and joinery and Global softwood sawn demand 2019 remained on 2018 level. Corrugated board (billion m2)1 10.8 n/a 73.1 Board of Directors Sustainability construction companies. Suppliers have been reducing high inventories from 2018 and this has Chemical market pulp 17.3 7.5 34.0 Our fibre-based materials are renewable and recyclable. Our had a negative impact on prices on the market. In 2019 Chinese market Sawn softwood (million m3) 99.2 99.9 n/a Consolidated financial solutions offer low-carbon alternatives to products based on finite was growing well, but as European market growth was small and the Newsprint 5.1 2.3 8.4 statements resources. We believe that everything that is made from fossil-based US market was slightly declining, market in total remained on 2018 Uncoated magazine paper 2.8 1.2 0.2 materials today can be made from a tree tomorrow. level. All global markets, US, most of Europe, Japan, China and most of Stora Enso had 26 096 employees on average during 2019. Our Asia were oversupplied during 2019. Also, Australian stocks have been Coated magazine paper 4.1 1.9 2.8 Notes to the Consolidated Coated fine paper sales in 2019 were EUR 10.1 billion, with an operational EBIT of EUR worked down during the year affecting prices on the market. 4.3 3.1 10.4 financial statements Uncoated fine paper 7.1 7.0 20.1 1.0 billion. Stora Enso shares are listed on Nasdaq Helsinki Oy (STEAV, Demand erosion of paper intensified during 2019. European paper STERV) and Nasdaq Stockholm AB (STE A, STE R). demand was 8% weaker than in 2018. As a result of demand decline European focus markets (Baltics, FI, PL, RU, SE) and China. Parent Company Stora Enso 1 European paper market’s supply and demand balance has turned Source: Pöyry, ICCA, RISI, Numera, Euro-Graph, PPPC, Stora Enso, UNECE Oyj financial statements Markets and deliveries unfavourable for paper producers. In North America demand declined by 11% compared to 2018. In Asia demand declined 5%. Global The Group’s external consumer board deliveries totalled 2 811 000 Notes to the parent company Demand for cartonboard decreased by 2% in Western Europe paper consumption was 7% lower in 2019 than 2018. However, tonnes, which was 103 000 tonnes or -3.5% lower compared to a year financial statements and continued to grow in Eastern Europe, but with modest speed, variation between paper grades is wide. Uncoated fine paper global ago. This was mainly due to decreased volumes in Europe. External reaching just 1% growth. Demand for cartonboard in North America demand decline was 2% whereas newsprint declined by 12%. containerboard deliveries decreased by 42 000 tonnes, or -4.3%, Signatures for the financial was flat and demand in Asia Pacific declined further 2% after similar from 985 000 tonnes to 943 000 tonnes, mainly due to lower recycled statements drop a year earlier driven by 5% demand decline in China. Production and external deliveries containerboard deliveries. External corrugated board deliveries Global containerboard demand declined slightly compared to increased slightly to 943 million m2. Market pulp deliveries increased Financials Change % Auditor’s report previous year mainly driven by decreased activities in manufacturing 2019 2018 2019–2018 by 345 000 tonnes or 17.1% to record high 2 362 000 tonnes, mainly sector affected by the trade dispute. However, the containerboard Consumer board deliveries, due to higher bleached eucalyptus kraft pulp (BEKP) deliveries from Stora Enso in capital markets demand in Europe continued to increase slightly. Demand growth of 1 000 tonnes 2 811 2 914 -3.5% Latin American pulp mills and challenges in Nordic wood sourcing in corrugated board in our European focus countries remained strong; Consumer board production, the beginning of 2018. External wood product deliveries decreased the annual average growth rate was close to 3%. 1 000 tonnes 2 775 2 922 -5.0% 177 000 m3 or -3.5% to 4 918 000 m3, negatively impacted by Stora Enso as a taxpayer Containerboard deliveries, World chemical market pulp demand was flat (+0.1%) through the curtailments in Nordic saw mills to manage inventories. External paper 1 000 tonnes 943 985 -4.3% first 9 months of 2019. Deliveries, however, saw a seasonal peak in deliveries totalled 4 130 000 tonnes, down 461 000 tonnes or -3.5% Capacities by mill in 2020 Containerboard production, Q4, which increased the overall demand by 1% in 2019. Softwood from 2018, due to lower deliveries in most paper grades and disposal 1 000 tonnes 1 303 1 320 -1.3% pulp deliveries increased by 4.5% thanks to grade switching, and of Dawang Mill in China. Information for shareholders hardwood pulp deliveries were flat compared to 2018. Global demand Corrugated packaging deliveries, million m2 943 940 0.4% increased in Asia, especially in China, and Eastern Europe in 2019 and Corrugated packaging production, Operational key figures, items affecting contracted in Europe, North America and Latin America. The global million m2 1 055 1 048 0.7% comparability and other non-IFRS measures chemical market pulp capacity increased by 1% in 2019, the softwood Market pulp deliveries, segment increased by 2.2% while hardwood capacity remained 1 000 tonnes 2 362 2 017 17.1% The list of Stora Enso’s non-IFRS measures and the calculation of flat (+0.2%). The overall demand-capacity balance stood at 89%, Wood product deliveries, our key figures are presented at the end of the Report of the Board 1 percent point up from 2018. 1 000 m3 4 918 5 095 -3.5% of Directors. See also the chapter Non-IFRS measures at the end of Governance High pulp inventories, slow demand, declining prices and overall Paper deliveries, 1 000 tonnes 4 130 4 591 -10.0% this report. economic uncertainty characterised the year 2019. Underlying Paper production, 1 000 tonnes 4 065 4 633 -12.3% 4 Stora Enso 2019: Financials – Report of the Board of Directors – Financial results – Group Strategy Financial results – Group profit and a positive impact of EUR 13 (negative 27) million on Segment share of operative assets, Annual Report 2019 income taxes. The IACs relate mainly to Bergvik Skog restructuring operative liabilities and operating capital Sales at EUR 10 055 (10 486) million were 4.1% lower than a year earlier, (negative EUR 41 million), Oulu Mill conversion (negative EUR 22 Year Ended 31 December mainly due to lower paper volumes and significantly lower sales prices in million), environmental provisions (negative EUR 13 million), the profit Operative Operative Operating all pulp grades and containerboard, wood product prices were also lower. protection programme (negative EUR 47 million) and net fixed asset Assets Liabilities Capital Consumer Board and Paper prices had a positive impact to sales. The impairments (negative EUR 62 million) coming mainly from asset write EUR million 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 impact of the foreign exchange rate movements on sales was EUR 39 downs in Biomaterials division. Consumer Board 2 644 2 486 544 535 2 100 1 951 million positive. Sales excluding the paper business decreased by 3.0%. The IFRS operating profit was EUR 1 305 (1 390) million. Packaging Solutions 1 232 1 138 270 215 962 923 In October, Stora Enso completed the divestment of its 60% equity Biomaterials 2 748 2 722 252 260 2 496 2 462 Financials stake in the Dawang Mill in China to its joint venture partner, Shandong Segment share of operational EBIT, IAC, fair valuations Wood Products 868 866 221 245 647 621 Huatai Paper. and non-operational items and operating profit/loss Paper 1 484 1 588 827 792 657 796 Operational EBIT at EUR 953 (1 325) million decreased 28.1% or Year Ended 31 December Stora Enso in 2019 EUR 372 million and represents a margin of 9.5% (12.6%). Other and IAC, Fair eliminations 5 002 2 668 402 466 4 600 2 202 Valuations Total 13 978 11 468 2 516 2 513 11 462 8 955 Report of the Sales and operational EBIT and NonBoard of Directors Operational Operational Operating Sustainability EUR million % EBIT items Profit/Loss 14 000 14 Key figures EUR million 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Consolidated financial 12 000 12 2019 2018 2017 Consumer Board 250 231 -3 -1 247 230 statements 10 000 10 Packaging Solutions 135 245 6 -1 141 244 Sales, EUR million 10 055 10 486 10 045 8 000 8 Biomaterials 233 427 -53 -3 180 425 Operational EBIT, EUR million 953 1 325 1 004 Notes to the Consolidated 6 000 6 Operational EBIT margin 9.5% 12.6% 10.0% Wood Products 105 165 -13 -1 92 164 financial statements 4 000 4 Paper 213 234 -59 0 154 234 Operating profit (IFRS), EUR million 1 305 1 390 904 2 000 2 Other 17 23 474 71 491 93 Operating margin (IFRS) 13.0% 13.3% 9.0% Parent Company Stora Enso Total 953 1 325 352 65 1 305 1 390 Return on equity (ROE) 12.1% 15.5% 10.3% 0 0 Oyj financial statements 2016 2017 2018 2019 Net financial items -168 -180 Operational ROCE 9.8% 15.5% 11.9% Sales Debt/equity ratio 0.43 0.31 0.38 Profit before Tax 1 137 1 210 Notes to the parent company Operational EBIT, % Income tax expense -281 -221 EPS (basic), EUR 1.12 1.28 0.79 financial statements Net Profit 856 988 EPS excluding IAC, EUR 1.34 1.29 0.89 Dividend and distribution per Operational EBIT comprises the operating profit excluding items affecting comparability share1, EUR 0.50 0.50 0.41 Signatures for the financial Operational EBIT decreased mainly due to significantly lower sales (IAC) and fair valuations from the segments and Stora Enso’s share of the operating Payout ratio, excluding IAC 37.3% 38.8% 46.1% statements prices in all pulp grades, containerboard and wood products. Lower profit of equity accounted investments (EAI), also excluding items affecting comparability paper volumes had also a negative impact to EBIT. Consumer Board and fair valuations. Payout ratio (IFRS) 44.6% 39.1% 51.9% Financials IAC =Items affecting comparability are exceptional transactions that are not related to and paper prices had a positive EBIT impact. Dividend and distribution yield, Auditor’s report recurring business operations. The most common IAC are capital gains and losses, (R share) 3.9% 5.0% 3.1% Variable costs were EUR 26 million higher, mainly wood and impairments or impairment reversals, disposal gains and losses relating to Group 2016 2017 2018 2019 transportation costs. Fixed costs and depreciation combined decreased companies, provisions for planned restructurings, environmental provisions, changes Price/earnings (R share), Stora Enso in capital markets Sales 9802 10045 10486 10055 in depreciation due to restructuring and penalties. Items affecting comparability are excluding IAC 9.68 7.82 14.90 EUR 36 million due to9 profit protection 10 programme 12.6 actions. 9.5 The net foreign normally disclosed individually if they exceed one cent per share. Operational EBIT, % Equity per share, EUR 9.42 8.51 7.62 Stora Enso as a taxpayer exchange impact increased operational EBIT by EUR 73 million. The Fair valuations and non-operational items include CO2 emission rights, valuations of biological assets and the Group’s share of income tax and net financial items of EAI. Market capitalisation 31 Dec, operational result from equity accounted investments was EUR 33 million EUR million 10 328 8 123 10 422 lower, mainly due to the Bergvik Skog transaction during Q2. Capacities by mill in 2020 Closing price 31 Dec, A/R share, EUR 13.55/12.97 11.05/10.09 13.20/13.22 The IFRS operating profit includes a positive net effect of EUR 493 Items affecting comparability, Average price, A/R share, EUR 12.88/11.05 16.36/14.61 11.93/11.54 (negative 2) million from IAS 41 forest valuation from subsidiaries and joint fair valuations and non-operational items Information for shareholders operations. The positive impact comes mainly from the increase in fair Number of shares 31 Dec Year Ended 31 December (thousands) 788 620 788 620 788 620 valuation in Stora Enso owned forests in Sweden. There is also a positive EUR million 2019 2018 Trading volume A shares (thousands) 1 299 3 068 6 768 net effect of EUR 52 (positive 53) million from Stora Enso’s share of net % of total number of A shares 0.7% 1.7% 3.8% Impairments and impairment reversals -62 0 financial items, taxes and IAS 41 forest valuations of equity accounted Restructuring costs excluding impairments -52 0 Trading volume R shares (thousands) 679 475 610 300 571 717 investments. The positive impact came mainly from an increase in fair Acquisitions and disposals -59 20 % of total number of R shares 111.0% 99.7% 93.4% valuation of forests of the Nordic equity accounted investment Tornator. Other -19 0 Average number of shares, basic Tangible and intangible asset impairments amounted to EUR 78 (1) Governance (thousands) 788 620 788 620 788 620 million and impairment reversals amounted to EUR 21 (0) million. Items affecting comparability -192 20 Average number of shares, diluted The Group recorded items affecting comparability (IAC) with a Fair valuations and non-operational items 544 45 (thousands) 789 533 789 883 790 024 negative impact of EUR 192 (positive 20) million on its IFRS operating Total 353 65 1 See the Board of Directors’ proposal for dividend distribution. 1 5 Stora Enso 2019: Financials – Report of the Board of Directors – Financial results – Group Strategy Net financial expenses at EUR 168 (180) million were EUR 12 million Breakdown of Capital Employed change was 2.1, compared to the ratio of 1.1 at the end of the previous year. The Annual Report 2019 lower than a year ago. Net interest expenses at EUR 147 million increase was mainly due to the restructuring of the Bergvik Skog (impact EUR million Capital Employed increased by EUR 19 million mainly as a result of higher gross debt 31 December 2018 8 824 0.6) and due to the adoption of IFRS 16 Leases (impact 0.2). The average levels and the implementation of IFRS 16 Leases, partly offset Capital expenditure less depreciation 96 interest rate on borrowings for year 2019 decreased to 3.5% (4.3%). by lower average interest expense rate on borrowings. Other net In the first quarter of 2019 Stora Enso successfully issued its first Right-to-use assets adoption of IFRS 16 leases 530 financial expenses at EUR 15 million were EUR 3 million lower Green Bonds with a total nominal value of SEK 6 000 million. The Impairments and reversal of impairments -56 than a year ago. Net foreign exchange impact in respect of cash bonds consist of three tranches with SEK 3 000 million maturing in Fair valuation of biological assets 493 equivalents, interest-bearing assets and liabilities and related August 2021 and paying a floating coupon of STIBOR +0.85%, SEK foreign-currency hedges amounted to a loss of EUR 6 (loss of Operational decrease in biological asset values -50 1 250 million maturing in February 2024 and paying a floating coupon Financials EUR 33) million, mainly due to revaluation of foreign currency net Unlisted securities (mainly PVO) 103 of STIBOR + 1.45%, and SEK 1 750 million maturing in February 2024 debt in subsidiaries and joint operations. Equity accounted investments -1 202 and paying a fixed coupon of 1.875%. The net tax charge totalled EUR 281 (221) million, equivalent to Net liabilities in defined benefit plans -58 In the second quarter of 2019 Stora Enso issued SEK 1 000 million Stora Enso in 2019 an effective tax rate of 24.7% (18.3%), as described in more detail in Operative working capital and other interest-free loan in Green Bond format under EMTN and Green Bond frameworks. Note 9 Income taxes, of the Consolidated Financial Statements. items, net -307 The loan matures in 2026. In addition, Stora Enso also entered into a Report of the The loss attributable to non-controlling interests was EUR 24 Net tax liabilities -97 new amortising credit-institution loan with the nominal of SEK 1 500 Board of Directors Acquisition of subsidiary companies 2 362 Sustainability (24) million, leaving a profit of EUR 880 (1 013) million attributable to million. The loan matures in 2021. Company shareholders. Translation difference 34 Stora Enso has EUR 600 million committed revolving credit facility Consolidated financial Earnings per share excluding items affecting comparability were Other changes -38 that was fully undrawn at the year-end. Additionally, Stora Enso has statements EUR 1.34 (1.29) and including items affecting comparability EUR 1.12 31 December 2019 10 632 access to various long-term sources of funding up to EUR 950 (1 000) (1.28). Operational return on capital employed was 9.8% (15.5%). million. These mainly relate to the available funding sources from Notes to the Consolidated Finnish pension funds. financial statements Operational ROCE Financing % Cash flow from operations was strong EUR 1 980 (1 365) million and Debt/equity ratio cash flow after investing activities was EUR 1 386 (811) million. Working Parent Company Stora Enso 16 capital decreased by EUR 240 (increased 428) million, inventories 0.7 Oyj financial statements 14 decreased by EUR 179 million and short-term receivables by EUR 178 0.6 12 million having a positive impact into working capital. Payments related Notes to the parent company 0.5 to the previously announced provisions were EUR 24 million. 0.4 financial statements 10 0.3 Operative cash flow 8 Signatures for the financial 0.2 statements 6 2016 2017 2018 2019 EUR million 2019 2018 0.1 0.0 Financials Operational EBITDA 1 542 1 878 2016 2017 2018 2019 Auditor’s report Operational ROCE, % IAC on operational EBITDA -128 20 Target >13% Debt/equity ratio Other adjustments 325 -104 Target <0.6 Stora Enso in capital markets Change in working capital 240 -428 Cash Flow from Operations 1 980 1 365 Stora Enso as a taxpayer The Group capital employed was EUR 10 632 million on 31 December 2019, an increase of EUR 1 808 mainly due to the adoption of IFRS 16 Cash spent on fixed and biological assets -587 -525 The fair valuation of cash flow hedges and equity investments fair Leases and the Bergvik Skog transaction. Acquisitions of equity accounted investments -7 -29 valued through other comprehensive income in accordance with IFRS Capacities by mill in 2020 Cash Flow after Investing Activities 1 386 811 9 increased equity by EUR 95 (increase of EUR 75) million mainly due to higher fair valuation of Group’s shareholding in Pohjolan Voima Oy Information for shareholders Legend 2016 2017 2018 2019 At the end of the period, net interest-bearing liabilities of the Group (PVO) Leave this row blank Legend partly offset by net fair2017 2016 valuation 2018 loss from outstanding 2019 cash Operational ROCE, % 10.2 11.9 15.5 9.8 were EUR 3 209 (2 092) million. The increase in net interest-bearing flow hedge derivatives recorded in other comprehensive income. Leave this row blank Target >13% 13.0 13.0 13.0 13.0 liabilities was mainly driven by restructuring of Bergvik forest assets in Debt/equity ratio 0.47 0.38 0.31 0.43 Sweden and IFRS 16 implementation. As a result of the restructuring, At the end of the year, the ratings for Stora Enso’s rated bonds were Target <0.6 0.6 0.6 0.6 0.6 Stora Enso’s Swedish forest assets were placed in a fully owned as follows: subsidiary and consolidated line by line in Stora Enso’s results with the Long/short-term Group’s forest holdings in Sweden increasing to 1.4 million hectares. Rating agency rating Valid from Governance Cash and cash equivalents net of bank overdrafts amounted to EUR Fitch Ratings BBB(stable) 8 August 2018 863 (1 128) million. The debt/equity ratio at 31 December 2019 was 0.43 Moody’s Baa3 (stable) / P-3 1 November 2018 (0.31). The ratio of net debt to the last 12 months’ operational EBITDA 6 Stora Enso 2019: Financials – Report of the Board of Directors – Financial results – Segments Strategy Financial results – Segments Packaging Solutions division Biomaterials division Annual Report 2019 The Packaging Solutions division provides fiber-based board The Biomaterials division offers a variety of pulp grades to meet Consumer Board division materials and corrugated packaging products and services that are the demands of paper, board, tissue, textile and hygiene product The ambition of the Consumer Board division is to be the global designed for a wide array of applications. Our renewable high-end producers. We maximise the business potential of the side streams leader in high-quality virgin fiber cartonboard. We aim to be the packaging solutions serve leading converters, brand owners and of our processes, such as tall oil and turpentine from biomass. Based preferred partner of customers and brand owners in premium end-use retailers – including those in e-commerce that are looking to optimise on our strong innovation approach, all fractions of biomass, like lignin packaging and graphical segments. Our wide board and barrier performance, drive innovation and improve their sustainability. and sugars, hold potential for use in various applications. coating selection is suitable for consumer packaging for liquid, food, pharmaceutical and luxury goods. EUR million 2019 2018 EUR million 2019 2018 Financials Sales 1 247 1 344 Sales 1 464 1 635 EUR million 2019 2018 Operational EBITDA 212 313 Operational EBITDA 356 550 Stora Enso in 2019 Sales 2 563 2 622 Operational EBITDA margin 17.0% 23.3% Operational EBITDA margin 24.3% 33.6% Operational EBITDA 433 423 Operational EBIT 135 245 Operational EBIT 233 427 Report of the Operational EBITDA margin 16.9% 16.1% Operational EBIT margin 10.8% 18.2% Operational EBIT margin 15.9% 26.1% Operational EBIT 250 231 Operational ROOC 14.4% 27.2% Operational ROOC 9.4% 17.9% Board of Directors Sustainability Operational EBIT margin 9.7% 8.8% Cash flow from operations 248 272 Cash flow from operations 423 438 Consolidated financial Operational ROOC 12.3% 11.9% Cash flow after investing activities 135 172 Cash flow after investing activities 266 327 Cash flow from operations 476 339 Board deliveries, 1 000 tonnes 1 299 1 308 Pulp deliveries, 1 000 tonnes 2 520 2 432 statements Cash flow after investing activities 328 177 Board production, 1 000 tonnes 1 303 1 320 Board deliveries, 1 000 tonnes 2 812 2 916 Notes to the Consolidated Corrugated packaging deliveries, million m2 1 055 1 059 Board production, 1 000 tonnes 2 775 2 922 Biomaterials division sales were EUR 1 464 (1 635) million, down financial statements Corrugated packaging production, million m2 1 055 1 048 10.5% due to significantly lower pulp sales prices in all grades. Delivery volumes were higher, and currencies had a positive Parent Company Stora Enso Consumer Board division sales at EUR 2 563 (2 622) million decreased Packaging Solutions division sales were EUR 1 247 (1 344) million, EUR 38 million impact on sales. Oyj financial statements by 2.3% due to lower volumes resulted from value over volume down 7% mainly due to significantly lower containerboard prices. Operational EBIT at EUR 233 (427) million was 45.6% down from approach. Average price per tonne improved due to price increases. Corrugated board volumes increased and containerboard volumes previous year, due to significantly lower sales prices in all grades. Notes to the parent company Operational EBIT at EUR 250 (231) million increased by 8.0%, due decreased slightly. Operational EBIT was also negatively impacted by higher wood costs. financial statements to higher prices and both lower variable and fixed costs. Lower pulp Operational EBIT at EUR 135 (245) million decreased 45% from an Fixed costs were lower due to profit protection programme actions. prices had the biggest positive impact on variable costs. all time high level a year ago. The reason for the reduction was mainly Foreign exchange rates had a positive impact on operational EBIT. Signatures for the financial the significantly lower containerboard prices. Wood and energy costs statements Sales and operational ROOC were higher, however the Corrugated business benefited from Sales and operational ROOC Consumer Board significantly lower variable costs due to low containerboard prices. Biomaterials Financials Auditor’s report EUR million % Fixed costs were lower due to profit protection programme actions. EUR million % 3 000 30 2 000 20 Stora Enso in capital markets 2 500 25 Sales and operational ROOC Packaging Solutions 1 500 15 2 000 20 EUR million % Stora Enso as a taxpayer 1 500 15 1 400 35 1 000 10 Capacities by mill in 2020 1 000 10 1 200 30 1 000 25 500 5 500 5 Information for shareholders 0 0 800 20 0 0 2016 2017 2018 2019 600 15 2016 2017 2018 2019 Sales 400 10 Sales Operational ROOC, % 200 5 Operational ROOC, % Operational ROOC target >20% 0 0 Operational ROOC target >15% 2016 2017 2018 2019 Sales Governance Operational ROOC, % Operational ROOC target >20% 2016 2017 2018 2019 2016 2017 2018 2019 Sales 2342 2516 2622 2563 Sales 1376 1483 1635 1464 Operational ROOC, % 12.7 14.6 11.9 12.3 Operational ROOC, % 8.5 10.5 17.9 9.4 Operational ROOC target >20% 20.0 20.0 20.0 20.0 Operational ROOC target >15% 15 15 15 15.0 2016 2017 2018 2019 Sales 1044 1255 1344 1247 7 Stora Enso 2019: Financials – Report of the Board of Directors – Investments and capital expenditure Strategy Wood Products division Paper division Other Annual Report 2019 The Wood Products division is a leading provider of innovative Stora Enso is the second largest paper producer in Europe with an The segment Other includes the Group’s Swedish forest holdings, wood-based solutions. The product range covers applications established customer base and a wide product portfolio for print and the Finnish forest equity-accounted investment Tornator, for construction, the window and door industry, as well as for the office use. Customers benefit from Stora Enso’s broad selection of Stora Enso’s shareholding in the energy company Pohjolan Voima packaging and decoration industries. Biocomposites offer plastic papers made from recycled and virgin fiber as well as our valuable (PVO), operations supplying wood to the Nordic and Baltic mills, replacement opportunities in e.g. consumer goods, industrial industry experience, know-how and customer support. plantations not connected to any mill site, and the Group’s shared components, cosmetics and packaging. Pellets provide a sustainable services and administration. solution for heating. The offering includes service concepts such EUR million 2019 2018 as Building Solutions and e-business. Our solutions meet strict Sales 2 856 3 066 EUR million 2019 2018 Financials requirements regarding safety, quality, design and sustainability. Operational EBITDA 318 345 Sales 3 396 3 425 Operational EBITDA margin 11.1% 11.3% Operational EBITDA 70 48 EUR million 2019 2018 Stora Enso in 2019 Operational EBIT 213 234 Operational EBITDA margin 2.1% 1.4% Sales 1 569 1 622 Operational EBIT margin 7.4% 7.6% Operational EBIT 17 23 Operational EBITDA 153 199 Report of the Operational ROOC 29.3% 30.2% Operational EBIT margin 0.5% 0.7% Operational EBITDA margin 9.8% 12.3% Cash flow from operations 305 -52 Board of Directors Cash flow from operations 344 222 Sustainability Operational EBIT 105 165 Cash flow after investing activities 264 175 Cash flow after investing activities 258 -119 Operational EBIT margin 6.7% 10.2% Consolidated financial Cash flow after investing activities to sales 9.3% 5.7% Operational ROOC 16.6% 28.1% Paper deliveries, 1 000 tonnes 4 130 4 591 statements Sales of the segment Other at EUR 3 396 (3 425) million reduced from Cash flow from operations 183 147 Paper production, 1 000 tonnes 4 065 4 633 previous year mainly due to lower sales in Wood Supply unit. Cash flow after investing activities 135 80 Operational EBIT at EUR 17 (23) million was down from previous Notes to the Consolidated Deliveries, 1 000 m3 4 753 4 932 year mainly due to lower results from the equity accounted financial statements Paper division sales were EUR 2 856 (3 066) million, down 6.8% due investments following the Bergvik Skog transaction and higher costs Wood Products division sales were EUR 1 569 (1 622) million, down to lower volumes resulted from market demand decrease. Despite related to innovations and strategic initiatives. Parent Company Stora Enso 3.3% due to lower volumes and sales prices. the overcapacity on the market the local prices were higher in During the fourth quarter of 2019 EUR 232 million was received Oyj financial statements Operational EBIT at EUR 105 (165) million decreased by 36% from all segments. as dividends and capital repayment from the equity accounted an exceptionally high level a year ago. Market demand and sales Operational EBIT at EUR 213 (234) million declined by 9.1% due to investment Bergvik Skog. Notes to the parent company prices were lower. The impact was partially compensated by lower lower volumes and higher wood and chemical costs. Fixed costs were financial statements wood costs in Central Europe and lower fixed costs due to profit lower due to profit protection programme. Investments and capital expenditure protection programme actions. Very strong cash flow due to good working capital management. Signatures for the financial Record high cash flow due to good working capital management. Additions to fixed and biological assets including internal costs statements Sales and cash flow after investing capitalised in 2019 totalled EUR 656 (574) million. The total amount Sales and operational ROOC activities to sales1 includes additions in biological assets of EUR 77 (83) million. Financials Auditor’s report Wood Products Paper During the first quarter of 2019, the EUR 42 million investment EUR million % EUR million % in flash-drying capacity of chemi-thermomechanical pulp (CTMP) Stora Enso in capital markets 3 000 30 5 000 10 at Imatra Mills was completed. The EUR 45 million investment in a new cross laminated timber (CLT) unit at the Gruvön sawmill was 2 500 25 4 000 8 Stora Enso as a taxpayer completed, and the first commercial volumes were produced during 2 000 20 the first quarter of 2019. 3 000 6 1 500 15 The EUR 52 million investment to increase the dissolving pulp Capacities by mill in 2020 2 000 4 1 000 10 production capacity at Enocell Mill was completed during the third quarter. The gradual ramp-up started during the fourth quarter. Information for shareholders 500 5 1 000 2 Production started as planned during the third quarter of 2019 at 0 0 0 0 Launkalne sawmill in Latvia, following EUR 13 million investment to 2016 2017 2018 2019 2016 2017 2018 2019 increase the sawmilling and planing capacity. Sales Sales During the fourth quarter of 2019, the EUR 9 million to upgrade and Operational ROOC, % Cash flow after investing activities to sales, % expand the corrugated packaging plant in Riga, Latvia was completed. Operational ROOC target >20% Cash flow after investing activities to sales target >7% In March 2019, Stora Enso announced investment of EUR 5 1 The Paper division’s ﬁnancial target is cash ﬂow after million to build a new production line and related infrastructure to Governance investing activities to sales (non-IFRS), because the division’s manufacture formed fiber products at Hylte Mill in Sweden. The goal is to generate cash ﬂow for the Group so that it can transform into a renewable materials growth company. formed fiber technology enables manufacturing of products that are designed for circularity, meaning that they are renewable, recyclable and biodegradable and do not contain any plastic. 2016 2017 2018 2019 Sales 1595 1669 1622 1569 2016 2017 2018 2019 Operational ROOC, % 16.8 20.5 28.1 16.6 Operational ROOC 20 20 20 20.0 Sales 3245 2920 3066 2856 target >20% Cash ﬂow after investing activities to sales, % 8.5 5.5 5.7 9.3 Cash ﬂow after investing activities to sales target >7% 7 7 7 7 8 Stora Enso 2019: Financials – Report of the Board of Directors – Innovation, research and development Strategy In May, Stora Enso announced investment of approximately orders have been shipped. The generation 2 dewatering development Stora Enso defines innovation as the process of translating ideas Annual Report 2019 EUR 350 million to convert the Oulu paper mill in Finland into packaging continues with collaboration partners. into new value. Research and development work is a basic element production. The investment will include a new world-class line for Formed fiber project, implementation of which started in February in the process. The company employs close to 400 people in the virgin-fiber based kraftliner (both brown and white-top) with an annual 2019, has developed very quickly and smoothly. The installation of the following R&D centres: capacity of 450 000 tonnes, the modification of the pulp mill and drying first two presses, related pulp handling and infrastructure was ready • Research Centre and Pulp Competence Centre in Imatra (Finland) machine for unbleached brown pulp, as well as investments to enhance for commissioning during the second half of December 2019 and • Research Centre and Pulp Competence Centre in Karlstad the mill’s environmental performance. Production on the converted first-run products, salad bowls, came out of the lines towards the end (Sweden) machine is estimated to start by the end of 2020. of the year. Commercial production of PureFiberTM started in January. • The Innovation Centre for biomaterials in Sickla, Stockholm In May, the shareholders of Bergvik Skog AB, a Swedish forest Customers show high interest in these products, which will replace (Sweden) Financials holding company, finalised the previously announced restructuring of currently used plastics. • The Innovation Centre for packaging in Helsinki (Finland) its ownership. Stora Enso’s forest holdings in Sweden increased to The company continues to focus on five renewable material • Biocomposite Competence Centre in Hylte (Sweden) 1.4 million hectares, of which 1.15 million hectares is productive forest R&D themes: Forestry & Biomass, Bio-based chemistry, Material • Intelligent Packaging Centre in Tampere (Finland) Stora Enso in 2019 land. Prior to the transaction, Stora Enso’s indirect share of Bergvik Science and Design, process solutions, and wood as a construction • Virdia demonstration plant in Louisiana and Research Centre in Skog’s productive forest land was 936 thousand hectares. material. Additionally, focus on Digitalisation has increased with focus Virginia (United States) Report of the In July, Stora Enso announced investment of EUR 10 million to areas Robotic Process Automation (RPA), machine learning, smart Board of Directors Sustainability build a pilot facility for producing bio-based carbon materials based operations, transparent supply chain, digital customer experience and Supporting Stora Enso’s innovation strategy, we have several on lignin. Wood-based carbon can be utilised as a crucial component Intelligent Packaging. co-operation projects with research organisations and academic Consolidated financial in batteries typically used in consumer electronics, the automotive Strong consumer demand to replace fossil-based plastics has institutions. The aim is to build clearer understanding of how our statements industry and large-scale energy storage systems. The pilot plant will positively impacted the attractiveness of new fiber-based solutions needs and the universities’ capabilities can meet, first and foremost be located at Stora Enso’s Sunila Mill in Finland. to our customers. These applications include materials for new in the research sphere surrounding Stora Enso research themes and Notes to the Consolidated In July, Stora Enso initiated feasibility studies for a possible cross packaging board grades especially targeting to replace single use the long-term research needs in the divisions. The second target is to laminated timber (CLT) unit in connection with its Ždírec mill in the plastics and plastic packaging. For long-term success, Stora Enso widen the contact network. Thirdly, we aim to identify topics where financial statements Czech Republic and a new construction beam unit to be located at the collaborates with academia and research institutes; for fast results, we have special interest regarding the universities’ bachelor, master Ybbs mill in Austria. we work together with startups. Good examples are Sulapac, where and PhD programmes, also for recruiting talents to mills and research/ Parent Company Stora Enso The main projects ongoing at the end 2019 were, EUR 22 million the cooperation originates in Stora Enso Accelerator programme and innovation centres. Oyj financial statements investment at Skoghall Mill in Sweden in an expansion of the existing 20tree.ai, where cooperation with the startup shows results of joint Our collaboration partners include Aalto University in Finland, water treatment plant; EUR 25 million investments to boost green efforts with the Combient Foundry Venture Client Program. Sulapac and Chalmers University of Technology and the Royal Institute of Notes to the parent company energy generation at Maxau Mill and EUR 350 million conversion of holds patents in biodegradable materials, and 20tree.ai technology is Technology in Sweden, VTT Technical Research Centre of Finland, financial statements Oulu Mill into kraftliner production. used for forest valuation based on satellite images. SweTree Technologies Ltd, Swedish University of Agricultural Science To trigger innovation processes, we will need ideas, which we and Wallenberg Wood Science Center R&D. Stora Enso is a member Signatures for the financial Innovation, research and development will receive from customers, suppliers, various stakeholders and our of national, European and trade associations focused on the statements own employees. WeNovate, our group-wide tool for collecting and bioeconomy and forest agendas including Confederation of European Stora Enso’s expenditure on innovation, research and development in evaluating ideas from the Stora Enso divisions and functions, has Paper Industries (CEPI), Forest Technology Platform (FTP), and the Financials Auditor’s report 2019 was EUR 141 (149) million, which was equivalent to 1.4% (1.4%) gained traction. It has changed our ideation and innovation culture by Swedish and Finnish Forest Industry Federations. Stora Enso is also of sales. engaging an increasing number of employees into the activity. In 2019, a member in the EU’s Biobased Industries Consortium (BIC) and the Stora Enso in capital markets Stora Enso is recognised as the renewable materials company. We we ran 25 campaigns and have 15 open idea channels operating. In Bio-Based Industries Initiative Joint Undertaking, a partnership within believe that everything made with fossil-based materials today can be total almost 1200 ideas were collected, growing from 875 in 2018. The the EU Horizon 2020 research programme. Stora Enso as a taxpayer made from a tree tomorrow. Work for replacing fossil-based products most suitable ideas enter state-gate based innovation processes of Intellectual property (IP) is an increasingly important tool to with new bio-based applications continues. the divisions and functions. support Stora Enso’s transformation. In this context, IP rights relate Scale-up of the Hylte biocomposite DuraSenseTM of Wood Stora Enso has established funds to be used in an agile manner for to areas such as patens, utility models, designs, trademarks, domain Capacities by mill in 2020 Products, Sunila lignin for phenol replacement, LineoTM of Biomaterials capital expenditure in novel projects, which have potential business names, know-how and trade secrets. IP landscape as well as FTO and ECO TAGTM of Intelligent Packaging continued in 2019. cases. The Innovation Fund is an allocation for new pilot scale (Freedom to Operate) investigations are of equally high importance. Information for shareholders Commercialisation has been slower than planned. However, the opportunities and new business models. The Digitalisation Fund is an During 2019, Stora Enso continued to strengthen its patent portfolio, speed of scaling up is accelerating. allocation for piloting new digital tools and models. Applications for these with 65 priority founding patent applications filed and over 430 Consumer Board division continued to develop the generation 1 resources will be approved in the company’s Investment Working Group. patents granted worldwide. The Group IP has within the Group the MFC film at Imatra Mill. Some adjustments will still be needed to the We have allocated an agility reserve to cover operational expenses responsibility for handling IP matters. The Group IP strategy has been paper machine 7 in Imatra to enable Proof of Concept #2. First trial related to cross-divisional projects in 2020, as was the case in 2019. approved by the CEO supported by the Group IP Steering Team. Governance 9 Stora Enso 2019: Financials – Report of the Board of Directors – Non-financial information Strategy Non-financial information In 2019, the total amount of wood (including roundwood and wood a fatality occurred at Skutskär Mill in Sweden in November involving Annual Report 2019 chips) delivered to our mills was 36.3 million m3 (solid under bark) a customer’s contractor employee. An investigation by the authorities Requirements of non-financial information reporting according to the (38.7 million m3 in 2018). The proportion of third-party certified wood concluded that the fatality was due to a fall from the top of the tanker. Finnish Accounting Act are reported below. The scope of the reporting in the Group’s total wood supply was 75% (76%). The learnings from these tragic events will be acted upon in Stora Enso. includes those non-financial topics that relate to the Group’s key risks. Stora Enso’s KPI for leadership, the Leadership Index, measures Risks and policy principles related to these topics are additionally Carbon dioxide employee perceptions of their managers. The index is calculated described on pages 10–16. In addition, respect for human rights is Key policy: Energy and carbon policy based on our annual employee survey. Our target was to achieve an explicitly covered below from the risk perspective. Stora Enso’s science-based target (KPI) is to reduce greenhouse gas index of 85/100 by 2022. In 2019, the Leadership Index remained emissions from our operations by 31% per tonne of pulp, paper and stable at 83 (83). Financials Business model board produced by 2030 compared with the 2010 base-year. In 2019, Remuneration to the Board of Directors and key management is Replacing the use of fossil-based resources with renewable raw our CO2e emissions per saleable tonne of board, pulp, and paper described in Note 7 of the Consolidated financial statements. materials is the foundation for a sustainable bioeconomy. Stora Enso’s were 25% lower than the 2010 benchmark level (18% lower in 2018). Stora Enso in 2019 products contribute to a low-carbon circular economy, in which materials The performance improved mainly due to a significant new contract Suppliers are reused and recycled, while waste is minimised, to maximise to purchase certified renewable electricity in Poland from the national Key policy: Supplier Code of Conduct (SCoC) Report of the environmental, social, and financial added value. As a leading renewable pool and less fossil-intensive purchased electricity at Finnish mills and Stora Enso’s key performance indicator (KPI) for responsible sourcing Board of Directors Sustainability materials company with access to carbon-neutral biomass, Stora Enso Beihai Mill in China. measures the proportion of our total supplier spend covered by our is in a unique position to combat global warming. Stora Enso’s business SCoC, including all categories and regions. By the end of 2019, 96% Consolidated financial model description is in the beginning of the Report of Board of Directors Water use of Stora Enso’s total spend on materials, goods, and services was statements and value creation model is presented in Strategy 2019 on page 10. Key policy: Stora Enso’s Environmental Guidelines duly covered (95% at the end of 2018), which meets our target to Stora Enso acknowledges the importance of the United Nations The objective of Group’s KPIs on total water withdrawal and maintain the high level of 95%. Notes to the Consolidated Sustainable Development Goals as part of a commonly agreed global process water discharges is to drive a downward trend from our financial statements ambition to end poverty, protect the planet and improve the lives and 2016 baselines of 57 m3 and 27 m3 per saleable tonne of product, Community prospects of everyone, everywhere. Read more on pages 10–11 in respectively. In 2019, our total water withdrawal was 61 m3 per Key policies: Guidelines for Social Responsibility, Sustainability 2019. saleable tonne (56 in 2018) and our process water discharges Human Rights Policy Parent Company Stora Enso amounted to 29 m3 per saleable tonne (26 in 2018). Despite increasing Oyj financial statements Sustainability focus on water efficiency lower production of board, pulp and paper Guangxi, China Sustainability is a key element of Stora Enso’s corporate governance, partly affected our specific water performance per tonne. Stora Enso leases 81 000 hectares of land in Guangxi province China, Notes to the parent company promoted by the Board of Directors, the CEO, and the Group Leadership of which 27 000 hectares (29 000 hectares in 2018), corresponding financial statements Team (GLT). The CEO carries the ultimate responsibility for the successful Social and employee matters to 34% (36%) of the total area, is social land leased from village implementation of the sustainability strategy. Work on sustainability is collectives, individual households, and local forest farms. Signatures for the financial led by the Executive Vice President, Sustainability, who reports directly Employees and wider workforce statements to the CEO. The Board of Directors’ Sustainability and Ethics Committee Key policies: Minimum HR requirements, Health and Safety policy Bahia, Brazil oversees the implementation of Stora Enso’s Sustainability Strategy and On 31 December 2019, there were 25 100 (26 100) employees in In Bahia, Brazil, work continued on a Sustainable Settlement Initiative Financials Auditor’s report Ethics and Compliance Strategy. The Committee met four times in 2019. the Group. The average number of employees in 2019 was 26 096, launched in 2012 to provide farming land and educational support Stora Enso’s Sustainability Policy describes our overall approach which was approximately the same than the average number in 2018. for local families in the landless people’s social movements. In 2018, Stora Enso in capital markets and governance model. At the same time, our Code of Conduct and The numbers include 50% of the employees at Veracel in Brazil and Veracel signed a new agreement with the social landless movements other policies, guidelines, and statements on specific sustainability Montes del Plata in Uruguay. to complement the earlier agreed Sustainable Settlement Initiative. Stora Enso as a taxpayer topics all further elaborate our approach, while also guiding our Personnel expenses totalled EUR 1 331 (1 330) million or 13.2% Since 2012, Veracel has voluntarily approved the transfer of employees in their everyday work. These documents are available at of sales. Wages and salaries were EUR 1 004 (1 000) million, pension approximately 20 000 hectares of land to benefit landless people. By the storaenso.com/sustainability. costs EUR 166 (170) million and other employer costs amounted to end of 2019, 469 hectares of productive land owned by Veracel remained Capacities by mill in 2020 More information on Stora Enso’s approach to sustainability is EUR 157 (153) million. occupied by movements not involved in the Sustainable Settlement published in Sustainability 2019. At the end of 2019, the Group’s top three countries in respect to Initiative or in the new agreement. Veracel will continue to seek Information for shareholders the number of employees were Finland, China and Sweden. 26% repossessions of the remaining occupied areas through legal processes. Environmental matters (26%) of employees were women. At the end of 2019, the total land area owned by Veracel was Personnel turnover in 2019 was 15.0% (15.0%). Illness-related 213 000 hectares, of which 79 000 hectares are planted with Forests, plantations, and land use absenteeism amounted to 3.2% (3.0%) of total theoretical eucalyptus for pulp production. Key policy: Wood and fiber sourcing, and land management policy working hours. Progress on responsible forestry is followed with a key performance In 2019, our Total Recordable Incident (TRI) rate increased to 7.0 Respect for human rights indicator (KPI) measuring the proportion of land in wood production and (6.1). The milestone for 2019 was 5.3. There was a fatal accident at Governance harvesting owned and managed by Stora Enso that is covered by forest a Stora Enso unit when a contractor was killed during an equipment Key policy: Human Rights policy certification schemes. Our target is to maintain the high level of 96%. In maintenance activity in Poland in March. An occupational fatality Stora Enso’s commitment to respect human rights covers all our 2019, coverage amounted to 98% (96% in 2018). At year-end Stora Enso occurred at Ždírec sawmill in Czech Republic in November involving operations, including our employees, contractors, suppliers, and owned or managed lands with a total area of 2.35 million hectares. one of our own employees. The investigation is ongoing. In addition, neighbouring communities. In addition to our commitment to the 10 Stora Enso 2019: Financials – Report of the Board of Directors – Risks and risk management Strategy UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, Stora Enso Environmental investments and liabilities strive to be a responsible corporate citizen, and its contribution to Annual Report 2019 respects and follows the legal reporting requirements of the UK, and sustainable development. as of 2019, also the Australian Modern Slavery Act and we continue In 2019 Stora Enso’s environmental investments amounted to EUR 54 The head of Enterprise Risk Management, reporting to the CFO, to monitor the development of similar legislation in other countries. (46) million. These investments were mainly to improve the quality is responsible for the design, development and monitoring of the Human rights are integrated into our Sustainability Agenda, which is of air and water, to enhance resource efficiency and energy selftop-down implementation of the Group risk management framework. aligned with the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. sufficiency, and to minimise the risk of accidental spills. Each division head, together with their respective management teams, Human rights risks and impacts shall be taken into account Stora Enso’s environmental costs in 2019 excluding interest and are responsible for process execution and cascading the framework throughout our operations, including investment decisions related including depreciation totalled EUR 172 (184) million. These costs and guidelines further down in the organisation. The Internal Audit to mergers, acquisitions, and divestments. Our investment include taxes, fees, refunds, permit-related costs, and repair and unit evaluates the effectiveness and efficiency of the Stora Enso Financials guidelines stipulate that environmental and social risks and impacts, maintenance costs, as well as waste water treatment chemicals and risk management process. In 2019, Stora Enso established a crossincluding those related to human rights, must be duly identified, certain other materials. functional co-ordination team to facilitate the implementation of TCFD assessed, and addressed prior to any investments in projects with Provisions for environmental remediation amounted to EUR 97 (Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures) recommendations. Stora Enso in 2019 business-critical risks. (99) million at 31 December 2019, details of which are in Note 22, While we respect and consider all human rights important, our Other Provisions, of the Consolidated financial statements. There are Risk management process Report of the highest priority human rights remain the primary focus of our work: currently no active or pending legal claims concerning environmental Risk management is embedded in all decision-making processes, Board of Directors Sustainability • Health and safety issues that could have a material adverse effect on Stora Enso’s with holistic risk assessments conducted as part of all significant • Fair employment conditions financial position. Payments related to environmental remediation investment decisions. In connection with the annual strategy process, Consolidated financial • Forced labour measures amounted to EUR 12 (7) million. business divisions and group service and support functions conduct statements • Freedom of association a holistic baseline risk assessment, linked to their key objectives. • Non-discrimination and non-harassment Risks and risk management Specific guidance regarding the risk management process is outlined Notes to the Consolidated • Land and natural resource rights acquisition and management in the enterprise risk management instructions. financial statements • Grievance mechanisms Our approach to risk management Business entities and functions identify the sources of risk events • Children’s rights (relevant to the forestry sector). Risk is an integral element of business and corporate governance, including changes in circumstances and their causes and potential and it is characterised by both threats and opportunities, which consequences. Stora Enso’s risk model outlines the overall risk Parent Company Stora Enso We continued to develop our human rights due diligence programme may have an impact on future performance and the financial results universe which is used to support holistic risk identification and risk Oyj financial statements in 2019. As a first step, to strengthen our strategic focus, we mapped of Stora Enso, as well as on its ability to meet certain social and consolidation, while also providing taxonomy as well as consistency our Group function processes to identify development areas related to environmental objectives. Stora Enso is committed to ensuring in risk terminology. Risk appetite is determined across main risk Notes to the parent company our highest priority human rights. Actions to address the findings are that systematic, holistic and proactive management of risks and categories on the business division level. financial statements expected to be completed by the end of 2020. In addition, we began opportunities is among its organisational core capabilities, and that Risk analysis involves developing an understanding of the risk to updating our internal guidelines to better align them with our eight a culture is fostered where both are carefully considered in all business provide an input for risk evaluation. The purpose of risk evaluation Signatures for the financial priority human rights. decisions. Through consistent application of dynamic risk analysis, we is to determine the risk priorities and to support decision making to statements enhance opportunities and manage risk in order to reduce threats to determine which risks require treatment/actions. Risks are assessed Anti-corruption and bribery matters thus achieve our competitive advantage. in terms of their impact and likelihood of occurrence, often based on Financials Auditor’s report specific risk scenarios. The effectiveness of existing risk reduction Key policies: Business practice policy, Risk governance is factored in to define the residual risk level. Pre-defined impact Stora Enso in capital markets the Stora Enso Code (Code of Conduct) Stora Enso defines risk as the effect of uncertainty on our ability to scales consider financial, safety and reputational impacts, on both As to Business Ethics, in 2019, a total of 57 reports received through meet organisational values, objectives and goals. The Group Risk and a quantitative and qualitative basis. Stora Enso as a taxpayer Stora Enso’s various grievance channels were identified as potential Internal Control Policy, which is approved by the Board of Directors, Risk treatment involves selecting one or more risk management non-compliance cases (68 in 2018). Based on the investigations sets out the overall approach to governance and the management option, such as avoidance, reduction, sharing or retention. finalised by end of the year 2019, proven cases leading to disciplinary of risks in accordance with the COSO (Committee of Sponsoring Additional risk mitigation actions are determined for risks which Capacities by mill in 2020 action, legal action and/or process improvements were identified in 26 Organizations) framework and in line with the ISO 31000 standard. exceed the perceived risk tolerance incorporating the assignment of (20) of the completed investigations. The Board retains the ultimate responsibility for the overall risk responsibility, schedule and timetable of the risk response actions. Information for shareholders Based on our assessments, nine of the proven cases can be management process and for determining what an appropriate and Following the annual baseline assessment, prioritised and considered relating to corruption and/or fraud (2 in 2018). Seven of the acceptable level of risk is. emerging risks, as well as the corresponding risk mitigation and cases resulted in employee dismissal or disciplinary process (2). The Board has established a Financial and Audit Committee business continuity plans related to those risks, are reviewed in The company’s code of conduct index monitors and evaluates to provide support to the Board in monitoring the adequacy of divisional business review meetings on a quarterly basis. employees’ perceptions of Stora Enso’s work on topics covered the risk management process within Stora Enso, and specifically Despite the measures taken to manage risks and mitigate the by the Stora Enso Code and it is based on the annual employee regarding the management and reporting of financial risks. This impact of risks, and while some of the risks remain beyond the direct survey results. After five years of continued improvement, the index oversight scope includes also climate related risks which are control of the management, there can be no absolute assurance Governance decreased one unit to 84 in 2019 (85 in 2018). Our target is to continue reviewed annually and constitute a specific theme of focus. The that risks, if they occur, will not have a materially adverse effect on the previous positive trend and further efforts will therefore be put in Sustainability and Ethics Committee is responsible for overseeing Stora Enso’s business, financial condition, operating profit or ability to communications and training in 2020. the company’s sustainability and ethical business conduct, its meet financial obligations. 11 Stora Enso 2019: Financials – Report of the Board of Directors – Risks and risk management Strategy Main risk factors Annual Report 2019 Risk map Key risks in 2019 Risk Time Change Level of possible 5 10 15 20 25 Risk classification span* vs 2018 management influence Very high Major impact – high likelihood L D A Macroeconomy, geopolitics, and currency rates E/S/F ST 4 8 12 16 20 Financials High A B Global warming – physical impacts E/S LT B E C I C Sourcing I/S/O MT Stora Enso in 2019 Likelihood 3 6 9 12 15 J F Medium G H D Regulatory changes E/S/C MT K Report of the Moderate impact – high likelihood Board of Directors 2 4 6 O 8 10 Sustainability N Low M E Information technology and security I/O MT Consolidated financial Major impact – medium likelihood statements Very low 1 2 3 4 5 F Ethics and compliance M/C MT Notes to the Consolidated G People and capabilities I/O MT financial statements Incidental Minor Moderate Major Extreme H Strategic investments M/C MT Parent Company Stora Enso Impact – annualised Group EBITDA impact / share price impact / reputational impact Moderate impact – medium likelihood Oyj financial statements I Competition and market demand E/S MT J Product safety M/O/C MT Notes to the parent company financial statements K Community relations and social responsibility I/O/C MT Minor impact – high likelihood Signatures for the financial L Health and safety I/O ST statements Minor impact – low likelihood Financials Auditor’s report M Digitalisation I/S MT Stora Enso in capital markets N Forest and land use I/O/C MT O Mergers, acquisitions, and divestures M/I/O/C MT Stora Enso as a taxpayer * The most relevant timeframe when underlying risk factors are expected to manifest themselves Capacities by mill in 2020 Information for shareholders Symbols Change vs 2018 M = Mandatory obligations Increased E = External factors Decreased I = Internal capabilities Stable S = Strategic O = Operational C = Compliance Level of possible Governance F = Financial market and reporting management influence ST = Short-term (next 12 months) MT = Medium term (1–5 years) LT = Long-term (upto 25–30 years) Low High 12 Stora Enso 2019: Financials – Report of the Board of Directors – Risks and risk management Strategy Risk management process Global warming physical impacts Annual Report 2019 Physical risks related to climate change are assessed based on stress scenario on long-term (25-30 years) basis. Changes in precipitation Establish the Context patterns, periods of drought, typhoons and severe frost periods in the subtropics could cause damage to operations and tree plantations. Increases in average temperatures could lead to changes in the tree species composition of forests. Drought periods together with high Risk Assessment temperatures increase the risk of forest fires and insect outbreaks, potentially affecting forests and regional wood prices. Milder winters Financials Identify Risks will impact harvesting and transport of wood in northern regions and the related costs. The increase in risk level vs 2018 is driven by Monitor and Communicate higher ownership of forest assets in Sweden, as well as by increased Stora Enso in 2019 Review Analyse Risks and Consult understanding of risks due to the availability of recent scientific analysis. See also Competition and market demand and Sourcing. Report of the Board of Directors Sustainability Evaluate Risks Policy principles and mitigation measures Physical risks are to great extent subject to risk transfer and thereby Consolidated financial within the cover of our property and business interruption insurance statements programs. With regards to forest and plantation assets, making roughly 25% of the Group’s balance sheet, Stora Enso benefits from Treat Risks Notes to the Consolidated strong strategic resilience through geographical diversification within financial statements the asset portfolio. Moreover, risks related to insect damages such as bark beetle infestation in Nordic forest assets is limited by better inherent endurance of Nordic forest compared e.g to Central-European Parent Company Stora Enso forests. Diligent plantation planning is ensured to avoid frost sensitive Oyj financial statements areas and non-controversial tree breeding and R&D programmes are Strategic risks Policy principles and mitigation measures applied to increase tolerance of extreme temperatures. Stora Enso Notes to the parent company The Group has a diversified portfolio of businesses which mitigates maintains a diversity of forest types and structures and enforces financial statements Macroeconomy, geopolitics, and currency rates exposure to any one country or product segment. We monitor the diversification in wood sourcing. Wood harvesting in soft soils involves Stora Enso operates in more than 30 countries and is affected by external environment continuously and our planning assumptions the implementation of best practices guidelines. Signatures for the financial the global economy. Changes in broad economic conditions, sharp take account of important nearto medium-term and long-term statements market corrections, increasing volatility in foreign exchange rates and drivers related to key macro-economic factors. We closely monitor Related opportunities chronic fiscal imbalances could have negative and material impact the Board-approved risk appetite compliance for specific financial • Nordic forests in Finland and Sweden benefit from increased heat Financials Auditor’s report on the Group’s profit, cash flows and financial position. A prolonged metrics and actively manage cash flow and liquidity. We hedge summation and longer growing seasons, leading to acceleration in global recession may materially and adversely affect Stora Enso’s 50% of the highly probable 12-month net foreign exchange flows in forest growth with direct positive impact on the value of own forest Stora Enso in capital markets performance and financial condition. A recession may also materially main currency pairs. Currency translation risk is reduced by funding asset and indirect impact related to market wood availability and cost. affect the Group’s customers, suppliers and other parties with whom it assets, whenever economically possible, in the same currency as Stora Enso as a taxpayer does business. Exchange rate fluctuations may have a material impact the asset. The divisions regularly monitor their order flows and other Strategic investments on the reported results through transaction and translation risk impact. leading indicators, where available, so that they may respond quickly Stora Enso’s business strategy is to transform itself from a traditional A significant and sustained economic downturn, or any similar to deterioration in trading conditions. In the event of a significant paper and board producer to a customer-focused renewable Capacities by mill in 2020 event, could have a material adverse effect on the Group’s operational deterioration in general economic condition and in main leading materials growth company. The success of this transformation performance and financial condition. economic indicators, the Group identifies and implements cost depends on the Group’s ability to understand the needs of the Information for shareholders Stora Enso is exposed to several financial market risks that the reduction measures to offset the impact on margins from deterioration customer and find the best way to serve them with the right offering Group is responsible for managing under policies approved by the in sales. and with the right production asset portfolio. Failure to complete Board of Directors. The objective is to achieve cost-effective funding strategic projects in accordance with the agreed schedule, budget or in Group companies and manage financial risks using financial Related opportunities specifications can have serious impacts on our financial performance. instruments to reduce earnings volatility. The main exposures for • A diverse business portfolio and geographical presence, Significant, unforeseen changes in costs or an inability to sell the the Group besides currency risk are interest rate risk, funding risk, competitive strength and resilient balance sheet reduce the envisaged volumes or achieve planned price levels may prevent commodity price risk and credit risk. Group’s risk exposures us from achieving our business goals. The increase of risk level Governance Financial risks are discussed in detail in Note 24, Financial risk • Strategic opportunities in changing currency and macroeconomic relevant to strategic investments increased from last year due to the management, of the Consolidated financial statements. environment. implementation risks associated with the Oulu conversion project. 13 Stora Enso 2019: Financials – Report of the Board of Directors – Risks and risk management Strategy Policy principles and mitigation measures and structural development. The risks related to factors such as could result in additional costs for Stora Enso and cause reputational Annual Report 2019 Risks are mitigated through profound and detailed pre-feasibility demand, price, competition and customers are regularly monitored damage. Divestments may involve additional costs due to historical and feasibility studies which are prepared for each large investment. by each division and unit as a routine part of business management. and unaccounted liabilities. Business restructuring may also involve Group investment guidelines stipulate the process, governance, risk These risks are also continuously monitored and evaluated on a Group reputational impacts. assessment, management and monitoring procedures for strategic level to gain a perspective of the Group’s total asset portfolio and projects, including climate related risk factors. The guidelines also overall long-term profitability potential. Policy principles and mitigation measures require the calculation of potential cost and income for CO2 emissions Rigorous M&A guidelines, including due diligence procedures are as part of the investment proposal. Related opportunities applied to the evaluation and execution of all acquisitions that require Environmental and Social Impact Assessments (ESIAs) are • Products based on renewable materials with a low carbon footprint the approval of the Board of Directors. Structured governance and Financials conducted for all new projects that could cause significant adverse help customers and society at large to reduce CO2 emissions policies such as the policy for responsible rightsizing, are followed effects in local communities. Post completion audits are carried out by providing an alternative to solutions based on fossil fuels or when making restructuring decisions. for all significant investments. other non-renewable materials. Our expertise in wood and other Stora Enso in 2019 biomass is focused on responding to customer and consumer Related opportunities Related opportunities demand. Stora Enso, as one of the biggest private forest owners in • A strong balance sheet and cash flow enable value enhancing Report of the • Replacing fossil-based materials by innovating and developing the world, has control over a strategic renewable resource base. M&A, when the timing and opportunity are right. Board of Directors Sustainability new products and services based on wood and other renewable materials. Digitalisation Operational risks Consolidated financial The digital transformation of businesses continues to alter the ways statements Competition and market demand in which organisations operate. Digital capabilities penetrate all Sourcing Continued competition and supply and demand imbalances in the aspects of business and operating models, reshaping how companies Violation of Supplier Code of Conduct could result in contractual, Notes to the Consolidated raw material, energy and products market, driven by megatrends and functions generate value. Therefore, digitalisation also involves financial and reputational damages and loss of sales, if Stora Enso such as eco-awareness and combatting global warming, may potentially disruptive forces. Moreover, customers, regulators and other were to be blacklisted by customers. Similarly, poor occupational financial statements have an impact on profitability. The paper, pulp, packaging and stakeholders expect companies to understand what data they have or safety performance of subcontractors can be a risk to our reputation. wood products industries are mature, capital intensive and highly could have, what risks it poses, and to have plans to manage it well. Increasing input costs or availability of materials, goods and services Parent Company Stora Enso competitive. Stora Enso’s principal competitors include a number of Business process erosion, failure to take advantage of the upside may adversely affect Stora Enso’s profitability. Securing access Oyj financial statements large international forest products companies and numerous regional that technology offers or inability to harvest related synergies could to reliable low-cost supplies and proactively managing costs and and more specialised competitors. Customer demand for products is significantly impair Stora Enso’s competitiveness in the market place. productivity are of key importance. Reliance on outside suppliers for Notes to the parent company influenced by the general economic conditions and inventory levels natural gas, oil and coal, and for peat and nearly half of the electricity financial statements and affects product price levels. Product prices, which tend to be Policy principles and mitigation measures consumed, leaves the Group susceptible to changes in energy market cyclical in this industry, are affected by capacity utilisation, which Stora Enso has an extensive digitalisation programme with the prices and disturbances in the supply chain. As a global warmingSignatures for the financial decreases in times of economic slowdowns. Changes in prices differ aim to develop a competitive advantage by making full use of the related physical risk, potential acute availability shocks or chronic statements between products and geographic regions. opportunities to drive revenue growth and internal efficiency. Stora Enso shortage of water may in the long term impact the Group’s operations The following table shows the operating profit sensitivity to a +/10% has established a programme with external partners to search for through our supply chains. Financials Auditor’s report change in either price or volume for different segments based on figures technological development initiatives with a clear business purpose. The following table shows Stora Enso’s major cost items. for 2019. With experimental and fast prototyping, these projects will help to Stora Enso in capital markets identify and further develop initiatives that will speed up Stora Enso’s Composition of costs in 2019 Operating profit: Impact of changes +/10%, EUR million digital maturity by exploring new technologies and capabilities. Operative costs % of costs % of sales Stora Enso as a taxpayer Segments Price Volume Logistics and commissions 11% 10% Consumer Board 244 89 Related opportunities • Opportunities related to digitalisation clearly exceed related risks Capacities by mill in 2020 Packaging Solutions 120 51 Manufacturing costs • New technologies offer significant potential for higher level of Biomaterials 142 61 Fibre 34% 31% process optimisation and automatisation, new business models Information for shareholders Wood Products 153 46 and enhanced value propositions for customers and consumers. Chemicals and fillers 10% 9% Paper 265 79 Energy 6% 6% Material 6% 5% Mergers, acquisitions, and divestments Furthermore, as a global warming-related risk, extreme weather Failure to achieve the expected benefits from any acquisition or value Personnel 14% 13% events may disrupt the operations of our customers, and from assets or businesses sold can have serious financial impacts. Other 13% 12% consequently result in increased volatility on product demand. The Group could find itself liable for past acts or omissions of the Depreciation 6% 5% acquired business, without any adequate right of redress. Failure to Total costs and sales 100% 91% Governance Policy principles and mitigation measures achieve expected values from the sales of assets or deliveries beyond Total operative costs and sales in EUR million 9 150 10 055 The ability to respond to changes in product demand and consumer the expected receipt of funds may also impact the Group’s financial preferences and to develop new products on a competitive and position. In connection with an acquisition, past practices with targets Equity accounted investments (EAI), operational 48 economic basis calls for innovation, continuous capacity management related to e.g. pollution, competition law compliance or corruption Operational EBIT 953 14 Stora Enso 2019: Financials – Report of the Board of Directors – Risks and risk management Strategy In many areas Stora Enso is dependent on suppliers and their ability to delayed launch of new lines of business or ventures, loss of customer Related opportunities Annual Report 2019 deliver a product or a service at the right time and of the right quality. and market confidence, loss of research secrets and other business • Skilled and dedicated employees are essential for success. The most important products are fibre, chemicals and energy, and critical information. Further risks involve the loss of backup media and • Engaged high performing people enable the implementation of machinery and equipment in capital investment projects. Increased violation of data privacy regulations. transformation strategy and commercial success. demand for carbon neutral primary and secondary biomass fuels may increase energy costs. Drought periods and changing precipitation Policy principles and mitigation measures Product safety patterns may affect hydropower generation and electricity prices for The management of risks is actively pursued in the Information Risk Some of our products are used to package liquids and food consumer units in Europe. Sea level rise will in long term impact the accessibility Management System and best practice change management and products, so any defects could affect health or packaging functions to ports and salt water intrusion may cause disruption in inbound project methodologies are applied. A number of security controls and result in costly product recalls. Wood products are incorporated Financials and outbound supply chain operations. The most important services have been implemented to strengthen the protection of confidential into buildings, and this may involve product liability resulting from are transport and various outsourced business support services. For information and to facilitate compliance with international regulations. failures in structural design, product selection or installation. Failure some of these inputs, the limited number of suppliers is a risk. Specific measures include a thorough RfP process in supplier selection to ensure product safety could result in product recalls involving Stora Enso in 2019 for business-critical services, supplier audits, annual controls and audit, significant costs including compensation for indirect costs of Policy principles and mitigation measures data centres located in low-risk areas, backup connections for critical customers, and reputational damage. Report of the Input cost volatility is closely monitored on the business unit, services, disaster recovery plans, targeted scanning and investigation Board of Directors Sustainability divisional and Group level. The Group applies consistent long-term activities, encryption of communication, information and devices, Policy principles and mitigation measures energy risk management. The price and supply risks are mitigated remote management of security on devices and information security The mills producing food and drink contact products have established Consolidated financial through increased own generation, shareholding in competitive power awareness training. In 2019, the overall information and cyber security certified hygiene management systems based on risk and hazard statements assets such as PVO/TVO, physical long-term contracts and financial was reduced through several risk improvement efforts. analysis. To ensure the safety of its products, Stora Enso actively derivatives. The Group hedges price risks in raw material and endparticipates in CEPI (Confederation of European Paper Industry) Notes to the Consolidated product markets and supports the development of financial hedging Related opportunities working groups on chemical and product safety. In addition, all financial statements markets. The Group uses a wide range of suppliers and monitors Efficient operations, performance optimisation, innovative product Stora Enso mills have certified ISO quality management systems. them to avoid situations that might jeopardise continued production, offerings, and new customer services through digitisation and Furthermore, contractual liability limitation and insurance protection business transactions or development projects. sophisticated IT systems. are used to limit the risk exposure to Stora Enso. Parent Company Stora Enso Suppliers and subcontractors must also comply with Stora Enso’s Oyj financial statements sustainability requirements as they are part of Stora Enso’s value People and capabilities Related opportunities chain, and their weak sustainability performance could harm Recruiting, retaining and developing a competent workforce and • Differentiation and value creation through superior product quality Notes to the parent company Stora Enso and its reputation. Stora Enso’s sustainability requirements managing key talent throughout Stora Enso’s global organisation are and the highest level of product conformity. financial statements for suppliers and audit schemes cover its raw materials, and other crucial to success. Competition for personnel is intense and the Group goods and services procured. Suppliers are assessed for risks may not be successful in attracting or retaining qualified personnel. Community relations and social responsibility Signatures for the financial related to their environmental, social and business practices through A significant portion of Stora Enso employees are members of labour Social risks may harm existing operations and the execution of statements self-assessment questionnaires and supplier audits. Findings from unions and there is a risk that the Group may face labour market investments, especially in growth markets. Failure to successfully such assessments are continuously followed up and progressive disruptions especially in times of restructuring and redundancies due manage relationships with local communities and non-governmental Financials Auditor’s report blacklisting procedures are applied as necessary. to divestments and mill closures or during labour market negotations. organisations (NGOs) could disrupt our operations and adversely The loss of key employees, the Group’s inability to attract new or affect the Group’s reputation. The Group operates in certain countries, Stora Enso in capital markets Related opportunities adequately trained employees, or a delay in hiring key personnel could where land and resource ownership rights remain unclear and where • Add value and bring innovation to our business globally by building seriously harm the Group’s business and impede the Group and its related disputes may arise. Stora Enso as a taxpayer strong and measurable relationships with the best suppliers. business divisions from reaching their strategic objectives. Labour Potential impacts include reputational impacts and negative media • Enforce harmonised sourcing processes to increase capabilities, market disruptions and strikes could have adverse material effects on coverage, harm to communities and rights holders, disruption of increase tender quality to reduce cost, and develop sustainable the business, financial conditions and profitability. operations, and loss of the licence to operate. Capacities by mill in 2020 suppliers to reduce risk. Policy principles and mitigation measures Policy principles and mitigation measures Information for shareholders Information technology and security Stora Enso manages the risks and loss of key talents through a Stora Enso strives to identify and minimise risks related to social The Group is dependent on IT systems for both internal and external combination of different actions. Some of the activities aim at providing issues in good time, in order to guide decision-making in its communications and for the day-to-day management of its operations. a better overview of the workforce of the whole Group, making the investment processes as well as in its ongoing operations. Tools such The Group’s information systems, personnel and facilities are subject Stora Enso employer brand better known both internally and externally, as sustainability risk assessment, human rights due diligence and to cyber security risk. Other IT related risks relate to the potential globalising some of the remuneration practices and intensifying the Environmental and Social Impact Assessments (ESIA) help ensure unavailability of IT services due to human error in operations, damaged efforts to identify and develop talents. Finally, the Group actively that no unsustainable projects are initiated, and all related risks and hardware in data rooms and data centres, network connection issues focuses on talent and management assessments, including succession opportunities are fully understood in all operations. These tools also Governance and the failure of suppliers to follow service level agreements. planning for key positions. The majority of employees are represented enable project plans and operating practices to be adapted to suit Accidental disclosure of confidential information due to a failure by labour unions under several collective agreements in different local circumstances. Furthermore, dialogue with NGOs is a part of the to follow information handling guidelines or due to an accident or countries where Stora Enso operates, thus relations with unions are of Group’s stakeholder engagement. More information on community criminal act may result in financial damage, penalties, disrupted or high importance to manage labour disruption risks. engagement is presented in Stora Enso’s Sustainability Report. 15 Stora Enso 2019: Financials – Report of the Board of Directors – Risks and risk management Strategy Related opportunities Related opportunities Ethics and compliance Annual Report 2019 • Ensuring that the communities around our operations thrive • Leading health and safety performance strengthens the brand as Stora Enso operates in a highly regulated business area and is thereby economically, socially, and environmentally is crucial for the an employer. exposed to risks related to breach of applicable laws and regulations success and sustainability of Stora Enso. • Improved engagement, efficiency and productivity. (e.g. capital markets regulation, company and tax laws, customs • Clear business benefits to Stora Enso through a strong focus on regulation and safety regulation) and breaches of group policies such social responsibility, as customers, business partners, investors Compliance risks as the Stora Enso Code, Supplier Code of Conduct and Business and potential employees become more and more attracted to Practice Policy regarding fraud, anti-trust, corruption, conflict of socially responsible companies. Regulatory changes interests and other misconduct. Stora Enso may face high compliance The Group’s businesses may be affected by political or regulatory and remediation costs under environmental laws and regulations. See Financials Health and safety developments in any of the countries and jurisdictions in which the also Information systems and information security. Potential impacts Failure to maintain high levels of safety management can result Group operates, including changes to fiscal, tax, environmental or other include prosecution, fines, penalties, and contractual, financial and in harm to the Group’s employees and contractors, and also to regulatory regimes. Potential impacts include higher costs and capital reputational damage. Stora Enso in 2019 communities near our operations and the environment. Impacts in expenditure to meet new environmental requirements, expropriation of addition to physical injury, health effects and environmental damage assets, imposition of royalties or other taxes targeted at our industry, Policy principles and mitigation measures Report of the could include liability to employees or third parties, impairment of the and requirements for local ownership or beneficiation. In particular, the Stora Enso’s Ethics and Compliance Programme, including Board of Directors Sustainability Group’s reputation, or inability to attract and retain skilled employees. EU energy and carbon policies may impact the availability and price policy setting, value promotion, training and knowledge sharing Government authorities could additionally enforce the closure of our of wood fibre. Concerning the EU Emissions Trading Scheme (ETS) 4th and grievance mechanisms are kept continuously up to date and Consolidated financial operations on a temporary basis. trading period, carbon leakage will remain, but the allocation of free developed. Other compliance mechanisms include Stora Enso statements Personnel security can never be compromised and thus allowances is expected to decline. A stress scenario over the next Group’s internal control system and Internal Audit assurance, Stora Enso must be aware of potential safety risks and provide ten years and with a carbon allowance price at 50 EUR/t, assuming the Supplier Code of Conduct in supplier contracts, supplier risk Notes to the Consolidated adequate guidelines to people for managing risks related to, for the current proposal for the 4th ETS trading period, implies an annual assessments, supplier trainings, supplier audits and black-listing example, travel, work and living in countries with security or crime financial impact below Group materiality threshold, even when factoring procedures. In response to capital markets regulations, Stora Enso’s financial statements concerns. Focusing on the security of key personnel is also important in increased costs from purchased electricity. Disclosure Policy emphasises the importance of transparency, from a business continuity perspective. Increased demand for carbon neutral primary and secondary biomass credibility, responsibility, proactivity and interaction. Parent Company Stora Enso fuels may increase energy costs. General opinion and political consensus Environmental risks are minimised through environmental Oyj financial statements Policy principles and mitigation measures to limit wood harvesting, arising from the view to further increase forests’ management systems and environmental due diligence for Stora Enso’s goal is to provide an accident-free workplace. function as carbon sinks while ignoring the net-positive climate impact acquisitions and divestments, and indemnification agreements Notes to the parent company Encouraging a company-wide safety culture means that everyone is of forest products, could limit the availability of wood, increase costs where effective and appropriate remediation projects are required. financial statements responsible for making every workday healthy and safe from our top and reduce investment opportunities. Additionally, political instability Special remediation projects related to discontinued activities and mill management and throughout the company. Safety management at may result in civil unrest, nullification of existing agreements, harvesting closures are executed based on risk assessments. Signatures for the financial Stora Enso is based on international standards such as OHSAS 18001 permits or land leases. Unpredicted changes in forest certification statements and ISO 45001, but our processes go beyond these requirements. schemes could limit the availability of certified raw materials. Related opportunities Stora Enso’s approach to safety extends to contractors, suppliers, Regulation as part of the EU’s Action Plan on sustainable finance • Focusing on wider ethical topics rather than mere compliance with Financials Auditor’s report and on-site visitors. We encourage everyone to give feedback brings new climate related obligations on both investors and corporates, regulations will lead to successful business, foster accountability and provide ideas on how to further improve safety. Additionally, in particular through the EU Taxonomy on sustainable activities and and enhance corporate reputation. Stora Enso in capital markets we promote safety among our contractors and suppliers through integration of ESG risks in investment processes. There is uncertainty a dedicated e-learning Safety Trail. We also emphasise the as to how Stora Enso’s share will be classified as an investment object Forest and land use Stora Enso as a taxpayer importance of safety by asking suppliers for information on their safety in light of this emerging regulation, but good management of financial Wood is our most important raw material. Failure to meet stakeholder performance in our tendering process. climate and other sustainability related risks and opportunities, as expectations or to ensure the chain of custody and economically, Stora Enso’s Health and Safety Policy defines the objectives for well as disclosure thereof, will improve the likelihood of a favourable socially and environmentally sustainable forest and land management Capacities by mill in 2020 our safety management as well as our governance model on how we perception by the capital markets and thus the cost of capital. practices throughout our wood procurement and plantation manage health and safety topics in practice and how we integrate operations could also result in significant reputational and financial Information for shareholders them into annual planning and reporting. Policy principles and mitigation measures loss to Stora Enso. Furthermore, global challenges such as population Other key documents applied in our people and safety • Active monitoring of regulatory and political developments in the growth, global warming, increasing demand for agricultural land and management include our: countries where the Group operates bioenergy, and the widening gap between the supply and demand • Stora Enso Code our code of conduct • Participation in policy development mainly through industry for wood, all require us to use natural resources even more efficiently. • Supplier Code of Conduct associations and other partnership programmes See also Global warming physical impacts, Regulatory changes and • Minimum Human Resources Requirements Labour Conditions Community relations and social responsibility. • Global Framework Agreement Related opportunities Governance • Diversity Policy • Regulatory changes involve market growth potential for Policy principles and mitigation measures sustainable products. Resource efficiency, the low-carbon circular Our Policy for Wood and Fiber Sourcing, and Land Management, For more information please see Sustainability 2019: Employees and economy and renewability are increasingly important sources of robust traceability systems and our active promotion of forest wider workforce. competitive advantage. certification all help to ensure that no wood or fibre from unacceptable 16 Stora Enso 2019: Financials – Report of the Board of Directors – Climate-related financial disclosures (TCFD) Strategy sources enters our supply chain. In addition, when sourcing logging Disclosure focus area Recommended disclosure Key locations and comments Annual Report 2019 residues and other forest biomass for energy use, we follow the I Governance specific guidelines developed for the harvesting of forest energy, a) Describe the board’s oversight of climate-related CG: Board of Directors, The Board of Directors’ and management’s annual risks and opportunities working cycle which include strict environmental considerations. FR: Risks and risk management – Risk governance SR: Strategy, governance and stakeholders – Sustainability governance and Related opportunities organisational structure As trees absorb carbon dioxide (CO2) from the atmosphere and – b) Describe management’s role in assessing and CG: Management of the Company, The Board of Directors’ and together with wood-based products – act as carbon sinks, wood from managing climate-related risks and opportunities management’s annual working cycle SR: Strategy, governance and stakeholders – Sustainability governance and sustainably managed forests represents a carbon neutral, renewable organisational structure Financials alternative to many non-renewable materials. If forests and plantations SR: Materials, water and energy – How we work are managed sustainably, new generations of trees will replace SR: Carbon dioxide – How we work those that are logged, sequestering more CO2 from the atmosphere. SR: Forest, plantations, and land use – How we work Stora Enso in 2019 Well-managed forests can make entire ecosystems more resilient to II Strategy negative impacts, and benefit from positive ones. a) Describe the climate-related risks and The physical and transition risks as relevant are considered as part of Report of the opportunities the organisation has identified over the overall risk descriptions in Stora Enso’s risk taxonomy. The impact of the short, medium and long term physical risks and opportunities is expected to increase over time depending Board of Directors Climate-related financial disclosures (TCFD) Sustainability on different global warming scenarios. The impact of transition risks and opportunities is more shortand mid-term depending on policy and market Consolidated financial The Financial Stability Board’s (FSB) Task Force on Climate-related measures to combat global warming. FR: Report of the Board of Directors – Risk management: Key risks in 2019 statements Financial Disclosures (TCFD) recommends a framework for disclosing • Global warming – physical risks climate-related risks and opportunities that goes beyond current • Strategic investments and related opportunities Notes to the Consolidated practices. The TCFD recommendations respond to a growing demand • Competition and market demand for improved financial disclosures from companies in relation to • Sourcing financial statements • Physical assets climate risks. • Regulatory changes In the index table below, we list our disclosures with reference to • Forest and land use Parent Company Stora Enso TCFD recommendations, and refer to the locations where these issues Oyj financial statements are addressed in our annual reporting. The location references are Mitigation of global warming provides opportunities for Stora Enso’s operations, and for the renewable, recyclable and fossil-free products and solutions. complemented in the index with additional information, as necessary. ST: Transformation Notes to the parent company b) Describe the Impacts of Climate related risks FR: Risk management financial statements and opportunities on the organisation’s business, ST: Transformation Table key: strategy and financial planning SR: Environmental agenda, Economic agenda Signatures for the financial SR Sustainability 2019 c) Describe the resilience of the organisation’s Stora Enso is proceeding for scenario work in 2020 against selected global strategy, taking into consideration different climatewarming scenarios. The use of scenarios further aids our decision-making statements FR Financials 2019 related scenarios, including a 2C or lower scenario and strategic planning. ST Strategy 2019 Financials Auditor’s report CG Governance 2019 ST: Transformation FR: Risks and risk management SR: Environmental agenda, Stora Enso’s GHG performance and scenarios Stora Enso in capital markets III Risk management a) Describe the organisation’s processes for FR: Risks and risk management Stora Enso as a taxpayer identifying and assessing climate-related risks SR: Strategy, governance and stakeholders b) Describe the organisation’s processes for Capacities by mill in 2020 managing climate-related risks FR: Risks and risk management c) Describe how processes for identifying, assessing, Information for shareholders and managing climate-related risks are integrated into the organisation’s overall risk management FR: Risks and risk management IV Metrics and targets a) Disclose the metrics used by the organisation to SR: Our sustainability targets and key performance indicators, See also assess climate-related risks and opportunities in Progress sections under SR: Environmental agenda line with its strategy and risk management process ST: Transformation – Substituting materials from finite resources is our key competitive advantage b) Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2, and, if appropriate, Governance Scope 3 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, and the SR: Carbon dioxide – Progress, Stora Enso’s GHG performance and related risks scenarios, Stora Enso’s carbon footprint 2015–2019 c) Describe the targets used by the organisation to manage climate-related risks and opportunities and performance against targets SR: Our sustainability targets and key performance indicators 17 Stora Enso 2019: Financials – Report of the Board of Directors – Corporate governance in Stora Enso Strategy Corporate governance in Stora Enso law case is closed based on that the environmental code was not Share capital Annual Report 2019 applicable on damages caused by fire. The other case in the District Stora Enso complies with the Finnish Corporate Governance Code Court of Falun has now been settled and the settlement amount Stora Enso Oyj’s shares are divided into A and R shares. The A and R issued by the Securities Market Association (the “Code”). The Code in full has been covered by insurance and without financial impact shares entitle holders to the same dividend but different voting rights. is available at cgfinland.fi. Stora Enso also complies with the Swedish for Stora Enso. Hence, there are no longer any open cases for Each A share and each ten R shares carry one vote at a shareholders’ Corporate Governance Code (“Swedish Code”), with the exception compensation due to the forest fire. There will be no further reporting meeting. However, each shareholder has at least one vote. of the deviations listed in Appendix 1 of the Corporate Governance of these claims. During 2019, a total of 55 838 A shares converted into R shares Report. The deviations are due to differences between the Swedish were recorded in the Finnish Trade Register. On 31 December 2019, and Finnish legislation, governance code rules and practices, and Company fine Stora Enso had 176 256 834 A shares and 612 363 153 R shares in Financials in these cases Stora Enso follows the practice in its domicile. The In January 2018, a Swedish prosecutor filed a lawsuit against issue. The company did not hold its own shares. The total number Swedish Code is issued by the Swedish Corporate Governance Board Stora Enso and its supplier, due to the forest fire in Västmanland, of Stora Enso shares in issue was 788 619 987 and the total number and is available at corporategovernanceboard.se. Sweden in 2014, claiming a company fine of SEK 5 million each. In votes at least 237 493 149. Stora Enso in 2019 December 2019, the court acquitted Stora Enso of responsibility for Board of Directors is authorised to decide on the repurchase and Legal proceedings causing the fire. The verdict has been appealed to the Court of Appeal on the issuance of Stora Enso R shares. The amount of shares to be Report of the by the prosecutor and the supplier. The prosecutor has reduced the issued or repurchased shall not exceed a total of 2 000 000 R shares, Board of Directors Contingent liabilities Sustainability claim for company fine to SEK 2.5 million. There will be no further corresponding to approximately 0.25% of all shares and 0.33% of all Stora Enso has undertaken significant restructuring actions in recent reporting of this case. R shares. Consolidated financial years which have included the divestment of companies, sale of statements assets and mill closures. These transactions include a risk of possible Changes in organisational structure and environmental or other obligations the existence of which would be Group management Notes to the Consolidated confirmed only by the occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more uncertain future events not wholly within the control of the Group. Stora Enso established a new Forest division and started reporting financial statements Stora Enso is party to legal proceedings that arise in the ordinary it separately at the beginning of 2020. The new division includes course of business and which primarily involve claims arising out of the Group’s Swedish forest assets and its 41% share of the equity Parent Company Stora Enso commercial law. The management does not consider that liabilities accounted investment Tornator with the majority of its forest assets Oyj financial statements related to such proceedings before insurance recoveries, if any, located in Finland. The Forest division also includes wood supply are likely to be material to the Group’s financial condition or results operations in Finland, Sweden, Russia and the Baltic countries. Notes to the parent company of operations. Stora Enso merged its containerboard business in the Packaging financial statements Solutions division with the Consumer Board division, creating a new Legal proceedings in Latin America Packaging Materials division. The remaining business in Packaging Signatures for the financial Veracel Solutions together with Stora Enso’s recently created formed fiber statements On 11 July 2008, Stora Enso announced that a federal judge in Brazil unit, constitutes a more focused Packaging Solutions division. The had issued a decision claiming that the permits issued by the State change is effective as of 1 January 2020. Financials Auditor’s report of Bahia for the operations of Stora Enso’s joint operations company On 25 September 2019 Stora Enso’s Board of Directors appointed Veracel were not valid. The judge also ordered Veracel to take certain Annica Bresky as President and CEO of Stora Enso as of Stora Enso in capital markets actions, including reforestation with native trees on part of Veracel’s 1 December 2019. She was previously EVP and Head of Stora Enso’s plantations and a possible fine of BRL 20 (EUR 5) million. Veracel Consumer Board division. She replaced Stora Enso as a taxpayer disputes the decision and has filed an appeal against it. Veracel Karl-Henrik Sundström, who announced in August 2019 that he would operates in full compliance with all Brazilian laws and has obtained all leave his position of CEO. the necessary environmental and operating licences for its industrial Hannu Kasurinen was appointed EVP, Head of Consumer Board Capacities by mill in 2020 and forestry activities from the relevant authorities. In November 2008, and member of the Group Leadership Team on 4 December 2019 and a Federal Court suspended the effects of the decision. No provisions as of 1 January 2020, EVP, Head of Packaging Materials. Information for shareholders have been recorded in Veracel’s or Stora Enso’s accounts for the Gilles van Nieuwenhuyzen left his position as EVP Packaging reforestation or the possible fine. Solutions on 6 December 2019 to pursue new career opportunities outside the company. David Ekberg, SVP and head of Business Unit Legal proceedings in Sweden Corrugated Nordics in the division, took on the role as acting Head of Insurance claim Packaging Solutions as of 6 December 2019. In July and August 2016, six Swedish insurance companies filed Jari Suominen was appointed EVP, Head of Forest division as of lawsuits in the Environmental Court and the District Court of Falun 1 January 2020. He will continue as a member of the Group Leadership Governance against Stora Enso, due to damage caused by the forest fire in Team. Previously he led the Wood Products division. Seppo Toikka, Västmanland, Sweden, in 2014. The claimed amount is approximately Head of Strategy and Business Controlling in Wood Products, took on SEK 300 (EUR 30) million, excluding interest. The environmental the role as acting Head of the division as of 1 January 2020. 18 Stora Enso 2019: Financials – Report of the Board of Directors – Corporate governance in Stora Enso Strategy Major shareholders as of 31 December 2019 Ownership distribution as at 31 December 2019 Annual Report 2019 By voting power A shares R shares % of shares % of votes % of shares % of votes 1 Solidium Oy1 62 655 036 21 792 540 10.7% 27.3% Solidium Oy1 10.7% 27.3% 2 FAM AB2 63 123 386 17 000 000 10.2% 27.3% FAM AB2 10.2% 27.3% 3 Social Insurance Institution of Finland (KELA) 23 825 086 973 982 3.1% 10.1% Social Insurance Institution of Finland (KELA) 3.1% 10.1% 4 Varma Mutual Pension Insurance Company 8 513 018 1 140 874 1.2% 3.6% Finnish institutions (excl. Solidium and KELA) 12.5% 8.8% 5 MP-Bolagen i Vetlanda AB 4 826 020 1 110 000 0.8% 2.1% Swedish institutions (excl. FAM) 9.3% 6.1% 6 Ilmarinen Mutual Pension Insurance Company 3 055 000 16 570 000 2.1% 2.0% Finnish private shareholders 4.4% 2.6% Financials 7 Erik Johan Ljungberg’s Education Foundation 1 780 540 2 336 224 0.5% 0.8% Swedish private shareholders 4.2% 2.7% 8 Swedbank Robur Funds 0 16 729 037 2.1% 0.7% ADR holders 1.8% 0.6% 9 Elo Mutual Pension Insurance Company 0 7 909 000 1.0% 0.3% Under nominee names Stora Enso in 2019 10 Bergslaget’s Healthcare Foundation 626 269 1 609 483 0.3% 0.3% (non-Finnish/non-Swedish shareholders) 43.8% 14.7% 11 AFA Insurance 0 7 072 505 0.9% 0.3% 1 Entirely owned by the Finnish State. Report of the 12 Nordea Investment Funds 0 5 841 360 0.7% 0.2% 2 As confirmed to Stora Enso. Board of Directors Sustainability 13 The State Pension Fund (Finland) 0 5 813 755 0.7% 0.2% 14 SEB Investment Management 0 5 769 313 0.7% 0.2% Consolidated financial 15 Keva (Local Government Pension Institution) 0 4 793 208 0.6% 0.2% statements Total 168 404 355 116 461 281 35.6% 75.6% Notes to the Consolidated Nominee-registered shares3 74 608 072 467 705 419 68.8% 51.3% financial statements 1 Entirely owned by the Finnish State. 2 As confirmed to Stora Enso. Parent Company Stora Enso According to Euroclear Finland. 3 The list has been compiled by the Company on the basis of shareholder information obtained from Euroclear Finland, Euroclear Sweden and a database managed by Citibank, Oyj financial statements N.A (Citi). This information includes only directly registered holdings, thus certain holdings (which may be substantial) of shares held in nominee or brokerage accounts cannot be included. The list is therefore incomplete. Notes to the parent company Share distribution as at 31 December 2019 financial statements By size of holding, A share Shareholders % of shareholders Shares % of shares 1–100 5 394 52.70% 240 338 0.10% Signatures for the financial 101–1 000 4 216 41.20% 1 513 068 0.90% statements 1 001–10 000 587 5.70% 1 352 742 0.80% Financials 10 001–100 000 29 0.30% 563 513 0.30% Auditor’s report 100 001–1 000 000 0 0.00% 0 0.00% 1 000 001– 6 0.10% 172 587 173 97.90% Stora Enso in capital markets Total 10 232 100.00% 176 256 834 100.00% Stora Enso as a taxpayer By size of holding, R share Shareholders % of shareholders Shares % of shares 1–100 12 702 29.30% 705 256 0.10% Capacities by mill in 2020 101–1 000 23 206 53.60% 9 631 026 1.60% 1 001–10 000 6 753 15.60% 18 010 289 2.90% Information for shareholders 10 001–100 000 539 1.20% 14 293 560 2.30% 100 001–1 000 000 82 0.20% 24 033 992 3.90% 1 000 001– 24 0.10% 545 689 030 89.10% Total 43 306 100.00% 612 363 153 100.00% According to Euroclear Finland. Governance 19 Stora Enso 2019: Financials – Report of the Board of Directors – Outlook and short-term risks Strategy Outlook and short-term risks Energy sensitivity analysis: the direct effect of a 10% increase in The dividend would be paid to shareholders who on the record Annual Report 2019 electricity and fossil fuel market prices would have a negative impact of date of the dividend payment, 23 March 2020, are recorded in the Subdued and mixed trading conditions caused by geopolitical approximately EUR 12 million on operational EBIT for the next 12 months. shareholders’ register maintained by Euroclear Finland Oy or in the uncertainties are expected to continue to impact Stora Enso in 2020. Wood sensitivity analysis: the direct effect of a 10% increase separate register of shareholders maintained by Euroclear Sweden The decline in demand for European paper will persist, and demand in wood prices would have a negative impact of approximately AB for Euroclear Sweden registered shares. Dividends payable to for other Group products is expected to remain mixed. Exceptionally EUR 170 million on operational EBIT for the next 12 months. Euroclear Sweden registered shares will be forwarded by Euroclear mild winter conditions in the Nordics with reduced period of frozen Pulp sensitivity analysis: the direct effect of a 10% increase in Sweden AB and paid in Swedish crowns. Dividends payable to ADR soil could impact harvesting and transport of wood and may therefore pulp market prices would have a positive impact of approximately holders will be forwarded by Citibank N.A. and paid in US dollars. affect the stability of raw material supply and potentially increase EUR 115 million on operational EBIT for the next 12 months. The Board of Directors proposes to the AGM that the dividend be Financials wood costs to our Nordic mills. Chemical and filler sensitivity analysis: the direct effect of a 10% paid on or about 30 March 2020. Stora Enso will continue active cost management in 2020–2021 increase in chemical and filler prices would have a negative impact of through the profit protection programme implementation. The fixed approximately EUR 33 million on operational EBIT for the next 12 months. Annual General Meeting Stora Enso in 2019 and variable cost savings target is EUR 275 million to the end of 2021. A decrease of energy, wood, pulp or chemical and filler prices Various labour unions in Finland are currently on strike which is would have the opposite impact. Stora Enso Oyj’s Annual General Meeting (AGM) will be held on Report of the expected to impact result negatively (as of 29 January 2020). Foreign exchange rates sensitivity analysis for the next twelve Thursday 19 March 2020 at 4.00 p.m. Finnish time at the Marina Board of Directors Sustainability Stora Enso publishes the quarterly guidances in its interim reports. months: the direct effect on operational EBIT of a 10% strengthening Congress Center, Katajanokanlaituri 6, Helsinki, Finland. Increasing competition, and supply and demand imbalances in in the value of the US dollar, Swedish krona and British pound against Consolidated financial the paper, pulp, packaging, wood products and roundwood markets the euro would be approximately positive EUR 114 million, negative Non-IFRS measures statements may affect Stora Enso’s market share and profitability. Changes in the EUR 89 million and positive EUR 30 million annual impact, respectively. global economic and political environment, sharp market corrections, Weakening of the currencies would have the opposite impact. These The Group’s key non-IFRS performance metric is operational Notes to the Consolidated increasing volatility in foreign exchange rates and deteriorating numbers are before the effect of hedges and assuming no changes EBIT, which is used to evaluate the performance of its operating economic conditions in the main markets could all affect Stora Enso’s occur other than a single currency exchange rate movement. segments and to steer allocation of resources to them. Operational financial statements profits, cash flows and financial position. The Group incurs annual unhedged net costs worth approximately EBIT comprises the operating profit excluding items affecting With reference to current geopolitical circumstances, the EUR 158 million in Brazilian real (BRL) in its operations in Brazil comparability (IAC) and fair valuations from the segments and Parent Company Stora Enso immediate probability of a further escalation in the tariff wars between and approximately EUR 42 million in Chinese Renminbi (CNY) in its Stora Enso’s share of the operating profit of equity accounted Oyj financial statements the US and China has diminished, but the chance of a lasting operations in China. For these flows, a 10% strengthening in the value investments (EAI), also excluding items affecting comparability de-escalation in the trade conflict remains slim. of a foreign currency would have a EUR 16 million and EUR 4 million and fair valuations. Notes to the parent company To mitigate the impact of deteriorating geopolitical and macro­ negative impact on operational EBIT, respectively. Items affecting comparability are exceptional transactions that are financial statements economic conditions, and increased uncertainty in the global economy, not related to recurring business operations. The most common IAC Stora Enso has a profit protection programme, targeting EUR 275 Events after the balance sheet date are capital gains and losses, impairments or impairment reversals, Signatures for the financial million reductions in fixed and variable costs by the end of 2021. disposal gains and losses relating to Group companies, provisions statements Exceptionally mild winter conditions could impact harvesting and Malin Bendz, Executive Vice President, Human Resources, left her for planned restructurings, environmental provisions, changes in the transport of wood and may therefore affect the stability of raw position at Stora Enso on 15 January 2020. depreciation due to restructuring and penalties. Items affecting Financials Auditor’s report material supply and potentially increase wood costs to our Nordic mills. comparability are normally disclosed individually if they exceed one Stora Enso has been granted various investment subsidies and Proposal for the distribution of dividend cent per share. Stora Enso in capital markets has given certain investment commitments in different countries e.g. Fair valuations and non-operational items include CO2 emission Finland, China and Sweden. If committed planning conditions are not The Board of Directors proposes to the AGM that a dividend of rights, valuations of biological assets and the Group’s share of income Stora Enso as a taxpayer met, the local officials may pursue administrative measures to reclaim EUR 0.50 per share be distributed on the basis of the balance sheet tax and net financial items of EAI. Until the end of 2018, fair valuations some of formerly granted investment subsidies or to impose penalties adopted for the year 2019. and non-operational items also included equity incentive schemes on Stora Enso, and the outcome of such process could result in The Parent Company distributable shareholders’ equity on 31 and related hedges. The previous periods have not been restated due Capacities by mill in 2020 negative financial impact on Stora Enso. December 2019 amounted to EUR 1 309 630 306.42, including the to immateriality. Other risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited profit for the period of EUR 230 302 677.26. The Board of Directors Cash flow from operations (non-IFRS) is a Group specific way to Information for shareholders to: general industry conditions, such as changes in the cost or proposes to the Annual General Meeting of the Company that the present operative cash flow starting from operational EBITDA instead availability of raw materials, energy and transportation costs; distributable funds be used as follows: of operating profit. unanticipated expenditures related to the cost of compliance with Dividend of EUR 0.50 per share from the distributable Cash flow after investing activities (non-IFRS) is calculated as existing and new environmental and other governmental regulations shareholders’ equity to be distributed on 788 619 987 shares, not to follows: cash flow from operations (non-IFRS) excluding cash spent and to actual or potential litigation; material disruption at one of exceed EUR 394 309 993.50 on intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, and biological our manufacturing facilities; risks inherent in conducting business Remaining in distributable shareholders’ equity EUR 915 320 312.92 assets and acquisitions of EAIs. through joint ventures, and other factors that can be found in Distributable shareholders’ equity on 31 December 2019, total The full list of the non-IFRS measures is presented at the end of Governance Stora Enso’s press releases and disclosures. EUR 1 309 630 306.42 this report. 20 Stora Enso 2019: Financials – Calculation of key figures Strategy Calculation of key figures List of non-IFRS measures Annual Report 2019 Operational EBITDA Operational return on capital employed, 100 × Annualised operational EBIT Operational EBITDA margin operational ROCE (%) Capital employed1, 2 Operational EBIT Operational EBIT margin Capital expenditure Operational return on operating capital, 100 × Annualised operational EBIT Capital employed operational ROOC (%) Operating capital2 Operational ROCE Earnings per share (EPS), excl. IAC Operational ROOC Net profit/loss for the period Net debt/last 12 months’ operational EBITDA ratio Return on equity, ROE (%) 100 × Financials Total equity2 Cash flow from operations Cash flow after investing activities Net interest-bearing liabilities Interest-bearing liabilities – interest-bearing assets Stora Enso in 2019 Net interest-bearing liabilities Report of the Net debt/equity ratio Equity3 Board of Directors Sustainability Net profit/loss for the period3 Consolidated financial Earnings per share (EPS) Average number of shares statements Dividend distribution / share Payout ratio, excl. IAC, % 100 × Notes to the Consolidated EPS excl. IAC financial statements Dividend distribution / share Dividend and distribution yield, % 100 × Parent Company Stora Enso Closing price of share Oyj financial statements Closing price of share Price/earnings ratio (P/E), excl. IAC Notes to the parent company EPS excl. IAC financial statements Operating profit/loss excluding items affecting comparability Signatures for the financial (IAC) and fair valuations of the segments and Stora Enso’s share Operational EBIT of operating profit/loss excluding IAC and fair valuations of its statements equity accounted investments (EAI) Financials Auditor’s report Operating profit/loss excluding operational decrease in the value of biological assets, fixed asset depreciation and impairment, IACs Operational EBITDA and fair valuations. The definition includes the respective items of Stora Enso in capital markets subsidiaries, joint arrangements and equity accounted investments. Stora Enso as a taxpayer Net debt/last 12 months’ Net interest-bearing liabilities operational EBITDA ratio LTM operational EBITDA Capacities by mill in 2020 Information for shareholders Fixed costs Maintenance, personnel and other administrative type of costs, excluding IAC and fair valuations Last 12 months (LTM) 12 months prior to the end of reporting period Total recordable incident rate = number of incidents per one TRI rate million hours worked Governance 1 Capital employed = Operating capital – Net tax liabilities 2 Average for the financial period 3 Attributable to owners of the Parent 21 Consolidated financial statements Stora Enso 2019: Financials – Consolidated financial statements – Consolidated income statement Strategy Annual Report 2019 Consolidated income statement Consolidated statement of comprehensive income Year ended 31 December Year ended 31 December EUR million Note 2019 2018 EUR million Note 2019 2018 Financials Sales 3 10 055 10 486 Net profit for the year 856 988 Other operating income 5 165 92 Other Comprehensive Income (OCI) Stora Enso in 2019 Changes in inventories of finished goods and work in progress -102 125 Materials and services -5 964 -6 157 Items that will not be reclassified to profit and loss Report of the Freight and sales commissions -904 -932 Equity instruments at fair value through other comprehensive income 14 109 97 Board of Directors Sustainability Personnel expenses 6 -1 331 -1 330 Actuarial losses/gains on defined benefit plans 20 -78 -24 Other operating expenses 5 -686 -526 Income tax relating to items that will not be reclassified 9 6 5 Consolidated financial Share of results of equity accounted investments 13 229 181 37 78 statements Change in net value of biological assets 12 442 -68 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment charges 10 -597 -479 Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit and loss Notes to the Consolidated Operating profit 3 1 305 1 390 Share of OCI of equity accounted investments that may be reclassified 27 11 4 financial statements Financial income 8 8 27 Currency translation movements on equity net investments (CTA) 28 206 -36 Financial expense 8 -176 -207 Currency translation movements on non-controlling interests 19 0 0 Parent Company Stora Enso Profit before Tax 1 137 1 210 Net investment hedges and loans 28 -9 -14 Oyj financial statements Income tax 9 -281 -221 Cash flow hedges 27 -17 -24 Net profit for the year 856 988 Cost of hedging time value of options 27 3 -2 Notes to the parent company Non-controlling interests’ share of cash flow hedges 19 0 -2 financial statements Attributable to: Income tax relating to items that may be reclassified 9 2 7 Owners of the Parent 18 880 1 013 196 -68 Signatures for the financial Non-controlling Interests 19 -24 -24 statements Net profit for the year 856 988 Total comprehensive income 1 089 999 Financials Auditor’s report Earnings per share Attributable to: Basic and diluted earnings per share, EUR 32 1.12 1.28 Owners of the Parent 1 113 1 025 Stora Enso in capital markets Non-controlling interests 19 -24 -27 Total comprehensive income 1 089 999 Stora Enso as a taxpayer The accompanying Notes are an integral part of these Consolidated financial statements. Capacities by mill in 2020 Information for shareholders Governance 22 Consolidated statement of financial position Stora Enso 2019: Financials – Consolidated financial statements – Consolidated statement of financial position Strategy Annual Report 2019 As at 31 December As at 31 December EUR million Note 2019 2018 EUR million Note 2019 2018 Equity and liabilities Assets Share capital 18 1 342 1 342 Goodwill O 11 302 243 Share premium 77 77 Other intangible assets O 11 169 254 Fair value reserve 397 290 Financials Property, plant and equipment O 11 5 610 5 234 Cumulative translation adjustment 28 -136 -335 Right-of-use assets 508 0 Invested non-restricted equity fund 633 633 11 6 590 5 731 Retained earnings 4 236 3 694 Stora Enso in 2019 Biological assets O 12 3 627 457 Net profit for the year 880 1 013 Emission rights O 37 26 Equity attributable to owners of the Parent 7 429 6 714 Report of the Equity accounted investments O 13 483 1 729 Non-controlling Interests 19 -7 18 Board of Directors Sustainability Listed securities I 14 12 13 Total equity 7 423 6 732 Unlisted securities O 14 526 422 Post-employment benefit provisions O 20 458 401 Consolidated financial Non-current interest-bearing receivables I 25 72 54 Other provisions O 22 110 101 statements Deferred tax assets T 9 81 120 Deferred tax liabilities T 9 875 168 Other non-current assets O 15 37 48 Non-current interest-bearing liabilities I 26 3 232 2 265 Notes to the Consolidated Non-current assets 11 463 8 601 Other non-current operative liabilities O 23 40 34 financial statements Non-current liabilities 4 713 2 970 Inventories O 16 1 391 1 567 Parent Company Stora Enso Tax receivables T 11 9 Current portion of non-current debt I 26 376 403 Oyj financial statements Operative receivables O 17 1 289 1 487 Interest-bearing liabilities I 26 572 675 Interest-bearing receivables I 25 23 55 Bank overdrafts I 26 13 1 Notes to the parent company Cash and cash equivalents I 876 1 130 Other provisions O 22 55 16 financial statements Current assets 3 590 4 248 Other operative liabilities O 23 1 854 1 960 Tax liabilities T 9 48 92 Signatures for the financial Total assets 15 053 12 849 Current liabilities 2 917 3 147 statements Total liabilities 7 630 6 117 Financials Auditor’s report Total equity and liabilities 15 053 12 849 Stora Enso in capital markets Items designated O comprise Operating Capital, items designated I comprise Interest-bearing Net Liabilities, items designated T comprise Net Tax Liabilities. The accompanying Notes are an integral part of these Consolidated financial statements. Stora Enso as a taxpayer Capacities by mill in 2020 Information for shareholders Governance 23 Consolidated cash flow statement Stora Enso 2019: Financials – Consolidated financial statements – Consolidated cash flow statement Strategy Annual Report 2019 Year ended 31 December Year ended 31 December EUR million Note 2019 2018 EUR million Note 2019 2018 Cash flow from operating activities Cash flow from financing activities Net profit for the year 856 988 Proceeds from issue of new long-term debt 26 870 578 Repayment of long-term debt and lease liabilities 26 -1 284 -358 Adjustments and reversal of non-cash items: Change in short-term borrowings 26 -33 39 Taxes 9 281 221 Dividends paid -394 -323 Financials Depreciation and impairment charges Change in value of biological assets 10 12 597 -442 479 68 Buy-out of interest in subsidiaries from non-controlling interests Equity injections from, less dividends to, non-controlling interests 19 19 -8 -4 -2 -2 Change in fair value of share awards and total return swaps 0 2 Purchase of own shares -3 -5 Stora Enso in 2019 Share of results of equity accounted investments 13 -229 -181 Net cash used in financing activities -856 -73 CTA and profits and losses on sale of fixed assets and investments1 5 172 20 Report of the Net financial items 8 168 180 Net change in cash and cash equivalents -285 521 Board of Directors Sustainability Other adjustments -6 -9 Translation adjustment 19 4 Dividends received from equity accounted investments 13 343 24 Net cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 1 128 603 Consolidated financial Interest received 7 3 Net cash and cash equivalents at year end 863 1 128 statements Interest paid -150 -116 Other financial items, net -10 -9 Cash and cash equivalents at year end2 876 1 130 Notes to the Consolidated Income taxes paid 9 -178 -152 Bank overdrafts at year end -13 -1 financial statements Change in net working capital, net of businesses acquired or sold 240 -428 Net cash and cash equivalents at year end 863 1 128 Net cash provided by operating activities 1 649 1 092 1 CTA = Cumulative Translation Adjustment Parent Company Stora Enso 2 Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash-in-hand, deposits held at call with banks and other liquid investments with original maturity of less than three months. Bank overdrafts are included in current liabilities. Oyj financial statements Cash flow from investing activities The accompanying Notes are an integral part of these Consolidated financial statements. Acquisition of subsidiary shares and business operations, net of Notes to the parent company acquired cash 4 -464 -4 Acquisition of shares in equity accounted investments 13 -7 -29 financial statements Acquisition of unlisted securities 14 0 -3 Cash flow on disposal of subsidiary shares and business operations, Signatures for the financial net of disposed cash 4 -19 42 statements Cash flow on disposal of shares in equity accounted investments 13 0 3 Financials Cash flow on disposal of unlisted securities 14 6 1 Auditor’s report Cash flow on disposal of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment 11 12 9 Stora Enso in capital markets Capital expenditure 3, 11 -510 -442 Investment in biological assets 12 -77 -83 Stora Enso as a taxpayer Proceeds from/payment of non-current receivables, net -18 8 Net cash used in investing activities -1 077 -497 Capacities by mill in 2020 Information for shareholders Governance 24 Consolidated cash flow statement Stora Enso 2019: Financials – Consolidated financial statements – Consolidated cash flow statement Strategy Annual Report 2019 Supplemental cash flow information Year ended 31 December EUR million Note 2019 2018 Change in net working capital consists of: Financials Change in inventories 161 -267 Change in interest-free receivables: Current 205 -183 Stora Enso in 2019 Non-current 13 -1 Change in interest-free liabilities: Report of the Current -127 36 Board of Directors Sustainability Non-current -12 -13 Change in net working capital, net of businesses acquired or sold 240 -428 Consolidated financial statements Cash and cash equivalents consist of: Cash on hand and at banks 676 801 Notes to the Consolidated Cash equivalents 199 328 financial statements Cash and cash equivalents 876 1 130 Parent Company Stora Enso Non-cash investing activities Oyj financial statements Total capital expenditure 550 491 Amounts paid -510 -442 Notes to the parent company Non-cash part of additions to intangible assets and property, plant financial statements and equipment 40 49 Signatures for the financial Cash flow on acquisitions of subsidiaries and business operations Purchase consideration on acquisitions, cash part 4 -527 5 statements Cash and cash equivalents in acquired companies, net of bank Financials overdraft 4 64 -1 Auditor’s report Net cash flow on acquisition -464 4 Stora Enso in capital markets Cash flow on disposals of subsidiaries and business operations Stora Enso as a taxpayer Cash part of the consideration 4 -15 44 Cash and cash equivalents in divested companies 4 -4 -2 Capacities by mill in 2020 Net cash flow from disposal -19 42 The accompanying Notes are an integral part of these Consolidated financial statements. Information for shareholders Governance 25 Statement of changes in equity Stora Enso 2019: Financials – Consolidated financial statements – Statement of changes in equity Strategy Annual Report 2019 Fair Valuation Reserve Share CTA Premium Invested Step Equity OCI of and Net Attributable and NonAcquisition instruments Available Equity Investment to Owners NonShare Reserve Restricted Treasury Revaluation through for Sale Cash Flow Accounted Hedges and Retained of the controlling EUR million Capital Fund Equity Fund Shares Surplus OCI Investments Hedges Investments Loans Earnings Parent Interests Total Balance at 31 December 2017 1 342 77 633 — 4 — 205 15 -14 -288 4 034 6 008 47 6 055 Adoption of IFRS 2 and IFRS 9 205 -205 8 8 Financials Balance at 1 January 2018 1 342 77 633 — 4 205 — 15 -14 -288 4 042 6 016 47 6 063 Profit/loss for the year — — — — — — — — — — 1 013 1 013 -24 988 OCI before tax — — — — — 97 — -26 4 -50 -24 — -2 -2 Stora Enso in 2019 Income tax relating to components of OCI — — — — — 1 — 5 — 3 4 13 — 13 Total Comprehensive Income — — — — — 98 — -22 4 -47 993 1 026 -27 999 Report of the Dividend — — — — — — — — — — -323 -323 -2 -326 Board of Directors Sustainability Acquisitions and Disposals — — — — — — — — — — — — -2 -2 NCI buy-out — — — — — — — — — — -2 -2 2 — Consolidated financial Purchase of treasury shares — — — -5 — — — — — — — -5 — -5 statements Share-based payments — — — 5 — — — — — — -3 2 — 2 Balance at 31 December 2018 1 342 77 633 — 4 304 — -7 -11 -335 4 706 6 714 18 6 732 Notes to the Consolidated Profit/loss for the year — — — — — — — — — — 880 880 -24 856 financial statements OCI before tax — — — — — 109 — -14 11 197 -78 225 — 225 Income tax relating to components of OCI — — — — — — — 1 — 1 6 9 — 9 Parent Company Stora Enso Total Comprehensive Income — — — — — 109 — -13 11 198 808 1 113 -24 1 089 Oyj financial statements Dividend — — — — — — — — — — -394 -394 -1 -395 Acquisitions and disposals — — — — — — — — — — — — 1 1 Notes to the parent company Purchase of treasury shares — — — -4 — — — — — — — -4 — -4 financial statements Share-based payments — — — 4 — — — — — — -3 — — — Balance at 31 December 2019 1 342 77 633 — 4 413 — -20 — -136 5 116 7 429 -7 7 423 Signatures for the financial CTA = Cumulative Translation Adjustment, NCI = Non-controlling Interests, OCI = Other Comprehensive Income, EAI = Equity Accounted Investments statements Financials Auditor’s report Stora Enso in capital markets Stora Enso as a taxpayer Capacities by mill in 2020 Information for shareholders Governance 26 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Stora Enso 2019: Financials – Notes to the Consolidated financial statements Strategy Annual Report 2019 Note 1 Accounting principles Stora Enso is mainly acting as a lessee and does not have any material and IAS 1. Leases of low value assets mainly include IT and office lease agreements where it would act as a lessor. equipment, certain vehicles and machinery, and other low value items. Principal activities In accordance with IFRS 16, at inception of a contract, the Group The Group recognises the lease payments associated with these Stora Enso Oyj (“the Company”) is a Finnish public limited liability assesses whether a contract is, or contains, a lease. A contract is, or leases as an expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Financials company organised under the laws of the Republic of Finland and with contains, a lease if the contract conveys the right to control the use of an In addition, the Group has applied hindsight in the determination of its registered address at Kanavaranta 1, 00160 Helsinki. Its shares are identified asset for a period of time in exchange for consideration. The a lease term if the lease contract includes extension options. currently listed on Nasdaq Helsinki and Stockholm. The operations of change in lease definition mainly relates to the concept of control and the On the transition to IFRS 16, leases previously classified as Stora Enso in 2019 Stora Enso Oyj and its subsidiaries (together “Stora Enso” or “the Group”) amendment in the definition of lease has no material effect on the Group. operating leases under IAS 17 resulted in the recognition of ROU are organised into the following divisions: Consumer Board, Packaging Stora Enso adopted IFRS 16 on 1 January 2019, using the modified assets and lease liabilities. This also resulted in a decrease in operative Report of the Solutions, Biomaterials, Wood Products, Paper and the segment Other. retrospective approach and therefore the comparative information expenses and an increase in depreciation charges and interest Board of Directors Sustainability The segment Other includes Nordic forest equity accounted investments, will not be restated and continues to be reported under IAS 17 and expenses. Under IFRS 16, cash paid for the interest portion of a Stora Enso’s shareholding in Pohjolan Voima, operations supplying wood IFRIC 4. The effect of the initial application of IFRS 16 is recognised lease liability is presented as part of the operating activities, and cash Consolidated financial to Nordic and Baltic mills, plantations not connected to any mill site, and in the balance sheet at 1 January 2019. At transition, lease liabilities payments for the principal portion of a lease liability is presented as part statements group shared services and administration. The Group’s main market is are measured at the present value of the remaining lease payments, of financing activities. The adoption of IFRS 16 does not have an impact Europe, with an expanding presence in Asia and South America. discounted at the Group’s incremental borrowing rate. ROU assets on the total net cash flow. Stora Enso’s most material lease agreements Notes to the Consolidated The Financial Statements were authorised for issue by the Board of are measured at an amount equal to the lease liability, adjusted by the capitalised at the implementation consist of land leases (~55%), Directors on 29 January 2020. amount of any prepaid or accrued lease payments. The Group allocates operative machinery and equipment (~30%), and properties (~15%). financial statements the consideration in the contract to each lease component and will Undiscounted operating lease commitments at the end of 2018 Basis of preparation separate non-lease components if these are identifiable. totalled EUR 731 million. On transition to IFRS 16, the Group recognised Parent Company Stora Enso The Consolidated Financial Statements of Stora Enso Oyj have ROU assets are initially measured at cost, which comprises the initial an additional EUR 525 million of lease liabilities. No adjustment to Oyj financial statements been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting amount of the lease liability adjusted mainly for lease payments made at the opening balance of retained earnings has been made due to the Standards (IFRS), as adopted by the European Union, including or before the commencement date. The ROU assets are subsequently IFRS 16 transition. The weighted average discount rate was 4.1%. Notes to the parent company International Accounting Standards (IAS) and interpretations issued depreciated using the straight-line method from the commencement financial statements by the IFRS Interpretations Committee (IFRIC). The Consolidated date to the earlier of the end of the lease term or the end of the useful EUR million 1 Jan 2019 Financial Statements of Stora Enso Oyj have been prepared according life of the ROU asset. In addition, the ROU asset is adjusted for certain Operating lease commitments at 31 December 2018 731 Signatures for the financial to the historical cost convention, except as disclosed in the accounting remeasurements of the lease liability. ROU assets are tested for Discounted using the incremental borrowing rates at statements policies. The detailed accounting principles are explained in the impairment in accordance with IAS 36 Impairment of Assets. 1 January 2019 544 related notes with a few exceptions where the accounting principles Lease liabilities are initially measured at the present value of Finance lease liabilities recognised as at 31 December 2018 1 Financials Auditor’s report are presented in this note. The Consolidated financial statements are the lease payments that are not paid at the commencement date, Short term leases -9 presented in euros, which is the parent company’s functional currency. discounted using the Group’s incremental borrowing rate. The lease Leases of low-value assets -16 Stora Enso in capital markets All figures in this Annual Report have been rounded to the nearest term applied corresponds to the non-cancellable period except in Other* 5 million, unless otherwise stated. Therefore, figures in this report cases where the Group is reasonably certain to exercise a renewal Lease liabilities recognised at 1 January 2019 526 Stora Enso as a taxpayer may not add up precisely to the totals presented and may vary from option or prolong the contract. The lease liabilities are measured at Finance lease liabilities recognised as at 31 December 2018 -1 previously published financial information. amortised cost using the effective interest method. Lease liabilities are Additional lease liabilities as a result of the initial remeasured mainly when there is a change in future lease payments Capacities by mill in 2020 application of IFRS 16 525 New and amended standards arising from a change in an index or rate, or if there is a change in the * Lease period adjustments (e.g. extension options), exclusion of non-lease components and interpretations adopted in 2019 Group’s assessment whether it will exercise an extension option. and variable rents not included in the measurement of the lease liability Information for shareholders The Group has applied the following standards and amendments When a lease liability is remeasured, a corresponding adjustment is which are effective from 1 January 2019: generally made to the carrying amount of the ROU asset. As at 1 January 2019, the Group recognised an additional EUR 530 • IFRS 16 Leases. The new leasing standard replaced the guidance The Group has elected not to recognise ROU assets and lease million of ROU assets. This amount includes prepaid expenses of in IAS 17 and related interpretations and is a significant change liabilities for those short-term leases that have a lease term of EUR 5 million, presented as accrued expenses in the balance sheet in accounting by lessees in particular. IFRS 16 requires lessees to 12 months or less and leases of low value assets. The Group has also before the transition and reclassified to ROU assets at IFRS 16 recognize a lease liability reflecting future lease payments and a rightapplied the exemption not to recognise contracts which are ending in implementation. In addition, certain land use contracts, amounting of-use (ROU) asset for virtually all lease contracts. The distinction 2019. The Group has defined the low value asset exemption to include to EUR 80 million, accounted as intangible assets before the IFRS 16 Governance between operating and finance lease is removed for lessees. Before leases in which the underlying asset is not material to Stora Enso. The transition, were classified as leases on the transition to IFRS 16. All the transition to IFRS 16, the Group mainly had contracts classified as assessment of whether the underlying asset is material and is within the liabilities related to the arrangements have already been settled in operating leases, which were not capitalised and Stora Enso did not the scope or excluded from the recognition requirements of IFRS 16 previous periods and therefore there is no effect on the lease liability have any material finance lease contracts in effect at the end of 2018. is based on the concept of materiality in the Conceptual Framework or income statement. See Note 11 Intangible assets and property, 27 Stora Enso 2019: Financials – Notes to the Consolidated financial statements – Note 1 Strategy plant and equipment for more detailed information on ROU assets obligations for the liabilities, relating to the arrangement. A joint venture been performed. More detailed information regarding Stora Enso’s Annual Report 2019 and leases arrangements, Note 26 Interest-bearing liabilities for more is a joint arrangement whereby the partners who have joint control of principal activities from which the Group generates its revenue and detailed information on lease liabilities and Note 5 Other operating the arrangement have rights to the net assets of the joint arrangement. disaggregation of revenue is presented in Note 3 Segment information. income and expense for more detailed information on lease expenses. The Group has two joint operations: Veracel and Montes del Plata. • Other amended IFRS standards and interpretations do not have In relation to its interest in joint operations, as a joint operator, the Foreign currency transactions a material effect on the Group. Group recognises assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses using the Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of exchange line-by-line method. prevailing at the transaction date, but at the end of the month foreignConsolidation principles • Veracel is a joint owned (50%/50%) company of Stora Enso and currency-denominated receivables and liabilities are translated using the The Consolidated financial statements include the parent company, Suzano located in Brazil. The pulp mill produces 1.2 million tonnes of month-end exchange rate. Foreign exchange differences for operating Financials Stora Enso Oyj, and all companies controlled by the Group. Control is bleached eucalyptus hard wood pulp per year and both owners are items are recorded in the appropriate income statement account in defined as when the Group: entitled to half of the mill’s output. The eucalyptus is sourced mostly the operating profit, and, for financial assets and liabilities, they are • has power over the investee, from the company’s own forestry plantations. The mill commenced entered in the financial items of the consolidated income statement, Stora Enso in 2019 • is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement production in May 2005 and the group’s share of the pulp shipments except when deferred in equity as qualifying cash flow hedges, net with the investee; and are sent primarily to Stora Enso mills in Europe and China. investment hedges or net investment loans. Translation differences on Report of the • has the ability to use its power to affect its returns. • Montes del Plata is a joint owned (50%/50%) company of Stora Enso non-monetary financial assets, such as equities classified at fair value Board of Directors Sustainability and Arauco located in Uruguay. The Montes del Plata Pulp Mill’s through other comprehensive income (FVTOCI), are included in equity. If facts and circumstances indicate that there are changes to the three annual capacity is 1.4 million tonnes of bleached eucalyptus hard Consolidated financial elements of control listed above the Group reassess whether or not wood pulp and Stora Enso’s part, 700 000 tonnes, is sold entirely as Foreign currency translations statements it controls an investee. Acquired companies are accounted for under market pulp. The eucalyptus is sourced mostly from the company’s The Group operates internationally and is thus exposed to currency risks the acquisition method whereby they are included in the consolidated own forestry plantations. The mill started in June 2014. arising from exchange rate fluctuations on the value of its net investment Notes to the Consolidated financial statements from the date the control over the subsidiary is in non-euro area foreign subsidiaries and equity accounted investments. financial statements obtained, whereas, conversely, divestments are included up to the date Revenue recognition The Income Statements of subsidiaries with functional and presentational when the control is lost. The principal subsidiaries and joint operations Sales comprise products, raw materials and services less indirect currencies other than the euro are translated into the Group reporting are listed in Note 30 Principal subsidiaries and joint operations. sales tax and discounts, and are adjusted for exchange differences currency using the average exchange rates for the year, whereas the Parent Company Stora Enso All intercompany transactions, receivables, liabilities and on sales in foreign currencies. Sales are recognised after Stora Enso statements of the financial position of these subsidiaries are translated Oyj financial statements unrealised profits, as well as intragroup profit distributions, are has transferred the control of goods and services to a customer and using the exchange rates at the reporting date. Exchange differences eliminated. Accounting policies for subsidiaries, joint arrangements the Group retains neither a continuing right to dispose of the goods, arising from the retranslation of net investments in foreign entities that are Notes to the parent company and all equity accounted investments are adjusted where necessary nor effective control of those goods; usually, this means that sales are non-euro foreign subsidiaries, joint arrangements or equity accounted financial statements to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by Stora Enso. Nonrecorded upon the delivery of goods to customers in accordance with investments, and of financial instruments that are designated as and are controlling interests are presented as a separate component of equity. the agreed terms of delivery. hedges of such investments, are recorded directly in the shareholders’ Signatures for the financial Associated companies over which Stora Enso exercises Stora Enso’s terms of delivery are based on Incoterms 2010, which equity in the cumulative translation adjustment (CTA), as shown in statements significant influence are accounted for using the equity method, are the official rules for the interpretation of trade terms as issued by the consolidated statement of comprehensive income and Note 28 which involves recognising the Group’s share of the equity accounted the International Chamber of Commerce (ICC). The main categories of Cumulative translation adjustments and equity hedging. The cumulative Financials Auditor’s report investment profit or loss for the year less any impaired goodwill in the the terms covering Group sales are: translation differences of divestments and liquidations are combined with consolidated income statement. These companies are undertakings • “D” terms, under which the group is obliged to deliver the goods to the their gain or loss on disposal. The CTA is also recycled in the consolidated Stora Enso in capital markets in which the Group has significant influence, but which it does not buyer at the agreed place in the manner specified in the chosen rule, income statement upon any partial disposal of a business unit. control. Significant influence means the power to participate in the in which case the Point of Sale is the moment of delivery to the buyer. Stora Enso as a taxpayer financial and operating policy decisions of the company without • “C” terms, whereby the Group arranges and pays for the external Future standard changes endorsed control or joint control over those policies. The most significant of carriage and certain other costs, though the Group ceases to be by the EU but not yet effective in 2019 such companies are listed in Note 13 Equity accounted investments. responsible for the goods once they have been handed over to the • Amendments to IAS 1 and IAS 8: Definition of Material. Capacities by mill in 2020 The Group’s interest in an associated company is carried in the carrier in accordance with the relevant term. The Point of Sale is Amendments will clarify the definition of material and align the consolidated statement of financial position at an amount that reflects thus the handing over of the goods to the carrier contracted by the definition used in the Conceptual Framework and the standards Information for shareholders its share of the net assets of the associate together with any remaining seller for the carriage to the agreed destination. themselves. The effective date for these amendments is 1 January goodwill upon acquisition. When the Group share of losses exceeds • “F” terms, being where the buyer arranges and pays for the 2020. The Group is assessing the impact of these amendments. the carrying amount of an investment, the carrying amount is reduced carriage, thus the Point of Sale is the handing over of the goods to • Amendments to References to the Conceptual Framework in to zero and any recognition of further losses ceases unless the Group the carrier contracted by the buyer at the agreed point. IFRS Standards. The revised Conceptual Framework includes: is obliged to satisfy obligations of the investee that it has guaranteed a new chapter on measurement; guidance on reporting financial or which it is otherwise committed to. Where local rules may result in invoices being raised in advance of the performance; improved definitions and guidance in particular the Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of control of the above, the effect of this revenue advancement is quantified, and an definition of a liability; and clarifications in important areas, such as Governance joint arrangement, which exists only when decisions on relevant adjustment is made accordingly. Stora Enso’s sales mainly comprise the roles of stewardship, prudence and measurement uncertainty activities require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control. sales of products and the revenue is typically recognised at a point in in financial reporting. The effective date for these amendments Joint operations are joint arrangements whereby the partners who time when Stora Enso transfers control of these products to a customer. is 1 January 2020. The amendments are not expected to have have joint control of the arrangement have rights to the assets, and Revenues from services are recognised over time once the service has a material effect on the Group. 28 Stora Enso 2019: Financials – Notes to the Consolidated financial statements – Note 2 Strategy Future standard changes not yet effective sensitivity analysis, are explained further in Note 10 Depreciation, 50%. The interpretations as joint operations are based on shareholders’ Annual Report 2019 and not yet endorsed by the EU in 2019 amortisation and impairment charges. agreements which give Stora Enso rights to a share of returns and make • Amendments to IFRS 3 Business combinations. The amendments Management believes that the assigned values and useful lives, as the Group liable indirectly for the liabilities, as our ability to pay for the will help companies determine whether an acquisition made is of a well as the underlying assumptions, are reasonable, though different pulp is used to finance debts. Joint operations are consolidated with the business or a group of assets. The amended definition emphasises that assumptions and assigned lives could have a significant impact on proportionate line-by-line method. the output of a business is to provide goods and services to customers, the reported amounts. For material intangible assets and property, Equity accounted investments are accounted for using the equity whereas the previous definition focused on returns in the form of plant and equipment in an acquisition, an external advisor makes a method. Stora Enso does not control the companies alone or jointly with dividends, lower costs or other economic benefits to investors and fair valuation of the acquired intangible assets and property, plant and other parties and thus retains its significant minority interest as equity others. The effective date for these amendments is 1 January 2019. The equipment and assists in determining their remaining useful life. accounted investments. These companies are presented in Note 13 Financials amendments are not expected to have a material effect on the Group. Equity accounted investments. • Amendments to IFRS 9, IAS 39 and IFRS 7. The amendments are Goodwill related to Interest Rate Benchmark Reform and require qualitative Goodwill is tested per Cash Generating Unit (CGU) or by a group of Fair value of financial instruments Stora Enso in 2019 and quantitative disclosures to enable users of financial statements to CGUs at least on an annual basis and any impairment is measured using Where the fair value of financial assets and liabilities cannot be derived understand how an entity’s hedging relationships are affected by the the discounted cash flow valuation method (value in use). This method directly from publicly quoted market prices, other valuation techniques, Report of the uncertainty arising from interest rate benchmark reform. The effective uses future projections of cash flows from each of the reporting units such as discounted cash flow models, transaction multiples, the Board of Directors Sustainability date for these amendments is 1 January 2020. The amendments are in a CGU or a group of CGUs and includes, among other estimates, Black and Scholes model and the Gordon model, are employed. The not expected to have a material effect on the Group. projections of future product pricing, production levels, product key judgements include future cash flows, credit risk, volatility and Consolidated financial • IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts: This standard replaces IFRS 4, which costs, market supply and demand, projected maintenance capital changes in assumptions about these factors which could affect the statements currently permits a wide variety of practices in accounting for expenditures and an assumption of the weighted average cost of reported fair value of the financial instruments. Investments in debt insurance contracts. The effective date for these amendments is capital. A pre-tax discount rate used for the net present value calculation and equity instruments of unlisted entities, such as Pohjolan Voima Oy Notes to the Consolidated 1 January 2021. The standard is not relevant to the Group. of projected cash flows reflects the weighted average cost of capital. (PVO), represent a significant portion of the group’s assets and require • Other published standard changes or interpretations are not The Group has evaluated the most sensitive estimates which when significant management judgement, as explained in more detail in financial statements expected to have a significant effect on the Group’s consolidated changed could have a material effect on the fair value of the assets or Notes 14 Equity instruments and 24 Financial risk management. financial statements or disclosures. goodwill and therefore could lead to an impairment. These estimates Parent Company Stora Enso are expected sales prices, expected operating costs and discount Income taxes Oyj financial statements rate. The key assumptions used in the impairment testing, including Tax assets and liabilities are reviewed on a periodic basis and balances Note 2 Critical accounting the sensitivity analysis, are explained further in Note 10 Depreciation, are adjusted appropriately. Management considers that adequate Notes to the parent company estimates and judgements amortisation and impairment charges. provision has been made for future tax consequences based on the financial statements current facts, circumstances and tax law. However, should any tax Use of estimates Biological assets positions be challenged and not prevail, different outcomes could Signatures for the financial The preparation of consolidated financial statements conforming to The Group has biological assets in subsidiaries, joint operations and result and have a significant impact on the amounts reported in the statements IFRS requires management to make estimates and assumptions that equity accounted investment companies. Biological assets, in the consolidated financial statements. See Note 9 Income taxes for more affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, as well as the form of standing trees, are accounted for under IAS 41, which requires detailed information. Financials Auditor’s report disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the dates of the financial that the assets are measured at fair value less the costs to sell. Fair statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses value is determined using discounted cash flows from continuous Post-retirement benefits Stora Enso in capital markets during the period. The estimates are based on historical experience and operations based on sustainable forest management plans taking into The determination of the Group pension obligation and expense is various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable, though account the growth potential of one cycle. These discounted cash flows subject to the selection of certain assumptions used by actuaries in Stora Enso as a taxpayer actual results and timing could differ from the estimates. Management require estimates of growth, harvest, sales price and costs, discount calculating such amounts, including, among others, the discount rate, believes that the accounting policies below represent those matters rate, and changes in these premises are included in the consolidated the annual rate of increase in future compensation levels and estimated requiring the exercise of judgement where a different opinion could income statement, for directly owned interests and for joint operations, lifespans. Amounts charged in the Income statement are determined Capacities by mill in 2020 result in the greatest changes to reported results. on the line for Change in Net Value of Biological assets. For those by independent actuaries; however, where actual results differ from the assets shown in the Consolidated statement of financial position of initial estimates, together with the effect of any change in assumptions Information for shareholders Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment equity accounted investments, changes are included on the line for or other factors, these differences are recorded directly in equity, as The carrying amounts of Intangible assets and property, plant and Share of results of equity accounted investments. In determining disclosed in the statement of comprehensive income. See Note 20 equipment are assessed at each reporting date to determine whether the value of biological assets the management of subsidiaries, joint Post-employment benefits for detailed information on the assumptions there is any indication that an asset may be impaired. If an indicator operation companies and equity accounted investments need to make used in the pension liability calculations. of impairment exists, the asset’s recoverable amount is determined appropriate estimates of future price levels and trends for sales and and compared with its carrying amount. The recoverable amount of an costs, and to undertake regular surveys of the forest to establish the Environmental provisions asset is estimated as the higher of fair value less the cost of disposal volumes of wood available for cutting and their current growth rates. The Group has made provisions for known environmental liabilities Governance and the value in use, with an impairment charge recognised whenever See Note 12 Biological assets for more detailed information. where legal or constructive obligation exist, based on the management’s the carrying amount exceeds the recoverable amount. The value in best estimate of the remediation costs. There is some uncertainty use is calculated using a discounted cash flow model which is most Control assessment of joint operations and associates regarding the timing and amount of these costs and therefore the final sensitive to the discount rate as well as the expected future cash Note 1 Accounting principles describe Veracel and Montes del Plata liability could differ significantly from the original estimate. See Note 22 flows. The key assumptions used in the impairment testing, including as joint operations. In both companies Stora Enso’s ownership is Other provisions for more detailed information on provisions. 29 Stora Enso 2019: Financials – Notes to the Consolidated financial statements – Note 3 Strategy Note 3 Segment information Sales by segment Annual Report 2019 Stora Enso’s reportable segments are formed by five divisions, Consumer Board, Packaging Solutions, External Internal Total External Internal Total Biomaterials, Wood Products, Paper and the segment Other. Operating segments reflect the Group’s EUR million 2019 2018 management structure and the way financial information is regularly reviewed by Stora Enso’s CEO who Consumer Board 2 547 16 2 563 2 608 14 2 622 is responsible for allocating resources and assessing the performance of the operating segments. Costs, Packaging Solutions 1 223 24 1 247 1 318 26 1 344 revenues, assets and liabilities are allocated to business segments on a consistent basis. Transactions 402 1 635 Biomaterials 1 193 271 1 464 1 233 between operating segments are based on arm’s length terms, and they are eliminated on consolidation. Wood Products 1 457 112 1 569 1 497 125 1 622 The activities of the reportable segments are: Financials Paper Other 2 800 835 56 2 561 2 856 3 396 3 004 826 62 2 599 3 066 3 425 Consumer Board The ambition of the Consumer Board division is to be the global leader in high-quality virgin fiber Elimination of internal sales -3 040 -3 040 -3 228 -3 228 Stora Enso in 2019 cartonboard. We aim to be the preferred partner of customers and brand owners in premium end-use Total 10 055 0 10 055 10 486 0 10 486 packaging and graphical segments. Our wide board and barrier coating selection is suitable for consumer Report of the packaging for liquid, food, pharmaceutical and luxury goods. Board of Directors Disaggregation of revenue Sustainability Packaging Solutions EUR million 2019 2018 Consolidated financial The Packaging Solutions division provides fiber-based board materials and corrugated packaging products Product sales 9 935 10 346 statements and services that are designed for a wide array of applications. Our renewable high-end packaging Service sales 120 140 solutions serve leading converters, brand owners and retailers – including those in e-commerce that are Total 10 055 10 486 Notes to the Consolidated looking to optimise performance, drive innovation and improve their sustainability. financial statements Biomaterials Product and Service sales by segment The Biomaterials division offers a variety of pulp grades to meet the demands of paper, board, tissue, textile EUR million 2019 2018 Parent Company Stora Enso and hygiene product producers. We maximise the business potential of the by-products extracted in our Consumer board Product sales 2 551 2 611 Oyj financial statements processes from biomass, such as tall oil and turpentine. Based on our strong innovation approach, all Service sales 12 11 fractions of biomass, like sugars and lignin, hold potential for use in various applications. Notes to the parent company Packaging solutions Product sales 1 244 1 340 Service sales 3 4 financial statements Wood Products Biomaterials Product sales 1 436 1 610 The Wood Products division is a leading provider of innovative wood-based solutions. The product Signatures for the financial range covers all areas of construction, including massive wood elements and wood components. It also Service sales 28 25 Wood Products Product sales 1 550 1 619 statements includes a variety of sawn timber goods and pellets for sustainable heating. The emerging product range of biocomposites addresses the opportunities to reduce plastics in broad range of industrial and consumer Service sales 19 3 Financials goods and creates potential in various demanding exterior applications. Paper Product sales 2 842 3 043 Auditor’s report Service sales 14 23 Stora Enso in capital markets Paper Other Product sales 2 459 2 430 Stora Enso is the second largest paper producer in Europe with an established customer base and Service sales 937 995 Stora Enso as a taxpayer a wide product portfolio for print and office use. Customers benefit from Stora Enso’s broad selection of Inter-segment sales Product sales -2 146 -2 307 papers made from recycled and virgin fiber as well as our valuable industry experience, know-how and Service sales -894 -922 customer support. Total 10 055 10 486 Capacities by mill in 2020 Other Information for shareholders The segment Other includes the Group’s Swedish forest holdings, the Finnish forest equity-accounted investment Tornator, Stora Enso’s shareholding in the energy company Pohjolan Voima (PVO), operations supplying wood to the Nordic and Baltic mills, plantations not connected to any mill site, and the Group’s shared services and administration. Governance 30 Stora Enso 2019: Financials – Notes to the Consolidated financial statements – Note 3 Strategy Segment share of operating profit/loss Goodwill by segment Annual Report 2019 Year Ended 31 December Year Ended 31 December Operating Profit/Loss Goodwill Impairment EUR million 2019 2018 EUR million 2019 2018 2019 2018 Consumer Board 247 230 Consumer Board 18 0 0 0 Packaging Solutions 141 244 Packaging Solutions 19 19 0 0 Biomaterials 180 425 Biomaterials 49 34 0 0 Wood Products 92 164 Wood Products 117 107 0 0 Financials Paper 154 234 Paper 100 83 0 0 Other 491 93 Other 0 0 0 0 Total 1 305 1 390 Total 302 243 0 0 Stora Enso in 2019 Net financial items -168 -180 Profit before Tax 1 137 1 210 Report of the Income tax expense -281 -221 Average personnel Board of Directors Sustainability Net Profit 856 988 Year Ended 31 December Segment 2019 2018 Consolidated financial Consumer Board 4 129 4 156 statements Intangible asset, property, plant and equipment (PPE) and right-of-use asset (ROU), depreciation, Packaging Solutions 7 617 7 750 impairments and impairment reversals, disposal gains and losses, and capital expenditure by segment Biomaterials 1 752 1 731 Notes to the Consolidated Year Ended 31 December Wood Products 4 106 4 038 financial statements Depreciation/ Paper 4 861 4 957 Impairments/ Intangible Assets, PPE Impairment reversals/ Other 3 631 3 435 Parent Company Stora Enso and ROU Disposal gains and losses Capital Expenditure Total 26 096 26 067 Oyj financial statements EUR million 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Year Ended 31 December Consumer Board 1 765 1 557 164 154 128 128 Notes to the parent company Location 2019 2018 Packaging Solutions 924 799 59 67 155 102 Austria 999 970 financial statements Biomaterials 1 929 1 857 144 94 114 89 Baltic States 1 362 1 270 Wood Products 517 454 55 34 54 65 Belgium 529 525 Signatures for the financial Paper 888 901 125 111 87 68 Czech Republic 941 929 statements Other 567 163 49 19 41 39 Finland 6 615 6 596 Total 6 590 5 731 597 479 579 491 Financials France 33 34 Auditor’s report Germany 975 990 Stora Enso in capital markets Capital expenditure by segment* Capital expenditure by location* Poland 2 136 2 103 EUR million Russia 1 125 1 108 Finland 48% Spain 14 15 Stora Enso as a taxpayer Consumer Board Sweden 24% Sweden 5 215 5 168 Packaging Solutions Other Europe 19% Capacities by mill in 2020 Other Europe 230 222 Other countries 9% Biomaterials Total Europe 20 175 19 930 Information for shareholders Brazil 418 431 Wood Products China (incl. Hong Kong) 4 890 5 092 Paper India 0 0 Other USA 95 89 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 140 160 *excluding bioasset capex Uruguay 314 317 2019 Other countries 205 208 2018 Total 26 096 26 067 Governance *excluding bioasset capex As at 31 December Legend Value in % 2019 2018 Finland 48% XX% Sweden 24% XX% Year-End Personnel 25 141 26 129 Year 2019 2018 Other Europe 19% XX% Consumer Board 128 128 Other countries 9% XX% Packaging Solutions 155 102 Biomaterials 114 89 Wood Products 54 65 Paper 87 68 41 39 Total 100% 0 Other 31 Stora Enso 2019: Financials – Notes to the Consolidated financial statements – Note 3 Strategy External sales by destination and origin Major markets Annual Report 2019 Sales by Destination Sales by Origin Balance of Trade EUR million 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Top 5 countries, sales by origin 2019 EUR million Austria 276 295 393 408 117 113 Baltic States 256 258 274 316 18 58 Finland Belgium 120 140 256 259 136 119 Czech Republic 159 149 241 262 82 113 Sweden Denmark 105 133 19 21 -86 -112 Poland Financials Finland 580 583 3 357 3 511 2 776 2 928 China France 460 506 15 16 -445 -490 Germany 1 317 1 385 439 461 -878 -924 Germany Stora Enso in 2019 Italy 418 400 0 0 -418 -400 0 500 1 000 1 500 2 000 2 500 3 000 3 500 4 000 Netherlands 276 282 0 0 -276 -282 Report of the Poland 504 552 510 579 6 27 Board of Directors Sustainability Russia 305 300 230 222 -75 -78 Top 5 countries, sales by destination 2019 Spain 239 282 0 0 -239 -282 EUR million Consolidated financial Sweden 956 1 003 2 987 3 037 2 030 2 034 statements UK 458 491 16 15 -442 -476 Germany Year 2018 Other Europe 876 903 99 83 -777 -820 Finland 3357 Sweden Sweden 2987 Notes to the Consolidated Total Europe 7 308 7 662 8 835 9 190 1 527 1 528 Poland China 510 483 financial statements China Germany 439 Australia / New Zealand 168 192 36 2 -132 -190 Brazil 70 70 300 360 230 290 Finland Parent Company Stora Enso China (incl. Hong Kong) 904 932 483 498 -421 -434 Poland Oyj financial statements Japan 290 285 0 0 -290 -285 Middle East 241 261 0 0 -241 -261 0 500 1 000 1 500 2 000 2 500 3 000 3 500 4 000 Notes to the parent company Uruguay 25 23 371 424 346 401 financial statements USA 281 236 27 12 -254 -224 Other countries 768 825 3 0 -765 -825 Signatures for the financial Total 10 055 10 486 10 055 10 486 0 0 Year 2018 statements Germany Sweden 1317 956 Financials China 904 Finland 580 Auditor’s report Poland 504 Stora Enso in capital markets Stora Enso as a taxpayer Capacities by mill in 2020 Information for shareholders Governance 1 32 Stora Enso 2019: Financials – Notes to the Consolidated financial statements – Note 3 Strategy Total assets and capital employed by location Intangible asset, property, plant and equipment (PPE) and right-of-use asset (ROU), depreciation, Annual Report 2019 impairments and impairment reversals, disposal gains and losses, and capital expenditure by location As at 31 December Total Assets Capital Employed Year Ended 31 December EUR million 2019 2018 2019 2018 Depreciation/ Impairments/ Austria 174 169 102 96 Intangible Assets, PPE Impairment reversals/ Baltic States 136 121 113 108 and ROU Disposal gains and losses Capital Expenditure Belgium 223 235 130 143 EUR million 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Czech Republic 151 148 126 121 Austria 121 104 8 6 9 5 Financials Finland 4 378 4 347 2 715 2 623 Baltic States 67 47 7 6 24 11 Germany 337 362 -15 15 Belgium 172 183 27 25 8 6 Poland 573 585 436 435 Stora Enso in 2019 Russia 192 161 126 104 Czech Republic 119 111 6 4 4 2 Finland 1 492 1 364 179 183 278 230 Sweden 5 129 2 958 3 546 1 992 Report of the Other Europe 98 111 51 77 Germany 280 273 27 26 25 9 Board of Directors Poland 415 406 31 28 25 24 Sustainability Total Europe 11 390 9 197 7 330 5 714 Russia 80 64 8 6 13 13 Brazil 387 377 357 353 Consolidated financial China (incl. Hong Kong) 1 359 1 433 1 212 1 082 Sweden 1 292 815 120 88 136 142 statements Other Europe 10 3 0 2 0 0 Uruguay 1 735 1 609 1 624 1 543 Total Europe 4 048 3 370 414 374 523 442 USA 109 147 62 115 Notes to the Consolidated Other countries 73 86 48 17 Brazil 179 185 19 20 11 6 financial statements China (incl. Hong Kong) 953 790 70 49 15 23 Total 15 053 12 849 10 632 8 824 Uruguay 1 324 1 268 44 33 27 19 Total capital employed represents operating capital less net tax liabilities. Parent Company Stora Enso USA 77 117 47 3 3 1 Other countries 9 1 3 0 0 0 Oyj financial statements Reconciliation of operating capital to total asset Total 6 590 5 731 597 479 579 491 As at 31 December Notes to the parent company EUR million 2019 2018 financial statements Operating Capital 11 462 8 955 Operative liabilities 2 516 2 512 Signatures for the financial Interest-bearing receivables 982 1 252 statements Tax receivables 92 129 Financials Total Assets 15 053 12 849 Auditor’s report Operating capital (“O” items) is designated thus in the Balance Sheet and represents the sum of Intangible Asset and Property, Plant and Equipment, right-of-use assets, biological assets, emission rights, unlisted shares, other non-current assets, inventories, current Stora Enso in capital markets operative receivables and liabilities, provisions and other non-current operative liabilities. Stora Enso as a taxpayer Capacities by mill in 2020 Information for shareholders Governance 33 Stora Enso 2019: Financials – Notes to the Consolidated financial statements – Note 4 Strategy Note 4 Acquisitions and disposals EUR million Acquisition of 69.8% of Bergvik Väst AB Annual Report 2019 Cash and cash equivalents 64 Land 305 Accounting principles Other property, plant and equipment 8 Acquired companies are accounted for under the purchase method whereby they are included in the Biological assets 2 598 Consolidated financial statements from the date the control over the subsidiary is obtained, whereas, Working capital -35 conversely, divestments are included up to the date when the control is lost. Tax liabilities -598 Interest-bearing liabilities -793 Financials Acquisition of Group companies Fair value of Net Assets Acquired 1 550 EUR million 2019 2018 Net assets acquired Purchase consideration on acquisition, cash part 500 Stora Enso in 2019 Fair value of 49.8% of shares in Bergvik Väst AB, non-cash 1 106 Cash and cash equivalents 64 1 Intangible assets and Property, plant and equipment 332 0 Total Purchase Consideration 1 605 Report of the Biological assets 2 598 0 Fair value of Net Assets Acquired -1 550 Board of Directors Sustainability Working capital -28 0 Goodwill 56 Consolidated financial Tax assets and liabilities -598 1 Interest-bearing assets and liabilities -793 0 Cash out flow with purchase consideration on acquisitions -500 statements Cash and cash equivalents, net of bank overdrafts of acquired subsidiaries 64 Fair value of Net Assets Acquired 1 575 2 Cash flow on acquisition of subsidiary shares and business operations, Notes to the Consolidated net of acquired cash -436 Purchase consideration, cash part 527 5 financial statements Purchase consideration, non-cash 1 106 0 Total Purchase Consideration 1 633 5 The fair value of the shares received as dividends was determined based on the acquired net assets value Parent Company Stora Enso of Bergvik Väst AB, whereby the fair values of the biological assets and land were estimated through Oyj financial statements Fair value of Net Assets Acquired -1 575 -2 a discounted cash flow model. A deferred tax liability was also included in the acquisition balances. Fair value of already held equity shares 0 2 The fair values of the acquired assets, liabilities and goodwill as at 31 December 2019 have been Notes to the parent company determined on a provisional basis pending finalisation of the post-combination review of the fair value of Goodwill 57 5 financial statements the acquired assets mainly with respect to biological assets valuation and related deferred tax liabilities. Cash outflow with purchase consideration on acquisitions -527 -5 The provisional goodwill represents the value of securing a competitive raw material supply for the Signatures for the financial Cash and cash equivalents of acquired subsidiaries 64 1 long term in Sweden. With direct ownership, Stora Enso will have better visibility of its wood supply statements Cash flow on acquisition, net of acquired cash -464 -4 and the acquisition provides better opportunities to further develop sustainable forest management and strengthening of the Group’s competitiveness. The goodwill has been allocated to those Divisions Financials Auditor’s report benefiting from the acquisition. Measurement period adjustments in 2019 are including increase of Acquisitions – Bergvik Skog AB restructuring EUR 75 million in biological assets, increase of EUR 8 million in tax liabilities, decrease of EUR 21 million Stora Enso in capital markets On 31 May 2019, Bergvik Väst AB, a subsidiary of Bergvik Skog AB, was distributed as dividends to in goodwill, increase of EUR 48 million in non-cash consideration and decrease of EUR 1 million in cash the shareholders of Bergvik Skog AB. On the same date the Group acquired an additional 20% of shares consideration. The measurement period adjustments are mainly due to updates in biological asset Stora Enso as a taxpayer in Bergvik Väst AB from other shareholders resulting in a total holding in Bergvik Väst AB of 69.8%. valuation to better reflect the conditions existing at acquisition date. Simultaneously, Bergvik Väst AB was demerged and Stora Enso became the 100% owner of a new Almost all the revenues of the acquired entity are internal from Stora Enso Group point of view. subsidiary holding around 69.8% of the former Bergvik Väst AB assets and liabilities. The acquisition date The acquired entity’s net profit has been reported for the first five months of the year in the Group result Capacities by mill in 2020 of the new subsidiary was 31 May 2019. as part of the Share of results of the equity accounted investments. Therefore, even if the acquisition had As a result of the transaction, Stora Enso’s direct forest holdings in Sweden are 1.4 million hectares, taken place from 1 January 2019, it would not have had a significant impact on the Group sales and net Information for shareholders of which 1.15 million hectares is productive forest land. profit figure for 2019. Related transaction costs during 2019 amounted to EUR 3 million and were recorded The fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities as of the acquisition date are presented in to Other operating expenses. In connection to the restructuring, a cumulative translation adjustment (CTA) the table below: of EUR -171 million was released from equity through profit and loss. In addition, a net gain of EUR 129 million on the transaction was presented in Share of results of equity accounted investments. The Group owns 49.8% of shares in Bergvik Skog AB which continue to be reported as an equity accounted investment. See Note 13 Equity accounted investments for more details. Governance 34 Stora Enso 2019: Financials – Notes to the Consolidated financial statements – Note 5 Strategy Acquisitions Other transport packaging in corrugated board and was part of the Packaging Solutions division. The transaction Annual Report 2019 In September 2019, Stora Enso bought out non-controlling interests in Stora Enso China Packaging. did not have a material impact on the Group. Stora Enso previously owned 90% of the parent company of the China Packaging Group and with the On 8 August 2018, Stora Enso disposed shares in Dongguan E-creative Industrial Co. Ltd to Dongguan purchase, the Group’s ownership increased to 100%. China Packaging is included in the Packaging An Shen Investment Co. Ltd. Stora Enso previously had 51% ownership of the company. The transaction Solutions division. The transaction did not have a material impact on the Group. did not have a material impact on the Group. In May 2019, and separately from Bergvik Skog AB restructuring, Stora Enso also acquired 100% of On 28 March 2018, Stora Enso signed an agreement to divest its entire 100% shareholding in the the nursery business Bergvik Skog Plantor AB from Bergvik Skog AB, three wind turbine projects, and a wood supply company in Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil to Copa Florestal III FIP Multiestrategia. The final real estate company. These acquired entities are included in the segment Other. These transactions did not consideration for the divestment of the shares was EUR 30 million. In 2017 the Group recorded an have a material impact on the Group. impairment in fixed assets amounting to EUR 5 million in order to reduce the value of the net assets Financials In December 2018, Stora Enso bought out non-controlling interests in VLAR Papier NV. Stora Enso disposed to the recoverable value. The disposal was completed in the second quarter of 2018. The previously owned 65% of the company and with the purchase, the Group’s ownership increased to 100%. transaction resulted in a loss of EUR 28 million, due to cumulative translation adjustment (CTA) released The transaction did not have a material impact on the Group. from equity through profit and loss at closing. Rio Grande do Sul was part of the segment Other. Stora Enso in 2019 In October 2018, Stora Enso increased its ownership up to 100% in the Sweden-based company Cellutech AB. The company specialises in the development of new materials and applications based Report of the on cellulose, micro-fibrillated cellulose and other wood-based components. Stora Enso previously Note 5 Other operating income and expense Board of Directors Sustainability owned 22% of the shares. Cellutech is included in the Biomaterials division. The transaction did not have a material financial impact on the Group. Consolidated financial Accounting principles statements Disposal of Group companies and business operations Year Ended 31 December Research and development Notes to the Consolidated EUR million 2019 2018 Research costs are expensed as incurred in other operating expenses in the consolidated income statement. Development costs are also expensed as incurred unless it is probable that future economic financial statements Net Assets Sold benefits will flow to the Group, in which case they are capitalised as intangible assets, and depreciated Cash and cash equivalents 4 2 over the period of the income streams. Parent Company Stora Enso Intangible assets and Property, plant and equipment 8 38 Oyj financial statements Working capital 3 -2 Government grants Interest-bearing assets and liabilities -43 0 Government grants relating to the purchase of property, plant and equipment are deducted from the Notes to the parent company Non-controlling interest 11 -1 carrying value of the asset, while the net cost is capitalised. Other government grants are recognised as financial statements Net Assets in Divested Companies and Businesses -16 38 income on a systematic basis over the periods necessary to match them with the related costs which they were intended to compensate. Signatures for the financial Total Disposal Consideration -15 44 statements CTA release 3 -27 Emission rights and trading Transaction costs 0 -1 The Group’s participation in the European Emissions Trading Scheme, in which it has been allocated Financials Auditor’s report Total Net Gain/loss 4 -22 allowances to emit a fixed tonnage of carbon dioxide over a fixed period of time, gives rise to an intangible asset for allowances, a government grant and a liability for the obligation to deliver Stora Enso in capital markets Attributable to the owners of the parent 4 -22 allowances equal to those emissions that have been made during the compliance period. Emission Attributable to the non-controlling interest holders 0 0 allowances recorded as intangible assets are recognised when the Group is able to exercise control and Stora Enso as a taxpayer are measured at level 1 fair value at the date of initial recognition. If the market value for the emission allowances falls significantly below the carrying amount, the decrease is considered permanent. On 25 July 2019, Stora Enso signed an agreement to divest its 60% shareholding in the Dawang Mill in At that point an impairment charge is booked for allowances which the Group will not use internally. Capacities by mill in 2020 China, to its joint venture partner, Shandong Huatai Paper. Stora Enso Huatai (Shandong) Paper Co Ltd The liability to deliver allowances is recognised based on actual emissions; this liability will be settled operated the Dawang paper mill in China and started operation in 2008. The disposal was completed using allowances on hand and measured at the carrying amount of those allowances, with any excess Information for shareholders in October 2019. During the third quarter of 2019 the Group recorded an impairment in fixed assets emissions measured at the market value of the allowances at the period end. amounting to EUR 5 million in order to reduce the value of the net assets disposed to the recoverable value. In the consolidated income statement, the Group will expense emissions made at the fair value of The final consideration paid by Stora Enso for the divestment of the shares was EUR 17 million. In addition, the rights at their grant date, under materials and services, together with purchased emission rights at a cumulative translation adjustment (CTA) gain of EUR 3 million was released from equity through profit and their purchase price. Such costs will be offset under other operating income by the income from the loss at closing. Stora Enso Huatai Paper was part of the Paper division. original grant of the rights used at their fair value at the grant date, together with income from the release In October 2019, Stora Enso divested 100% of shares of its Swedish subsidiary Skaftåsen Vindkraft or sale of surplus rights. The consolidated income statement will thus be neutral in respect of all the AB. The company was acquired in May 2019 in connection to Bergvik Skog AB restructuring. Skaftåsen rights consumed that were within the original grant. Any net effect represents the costs of purchasing Governance Vindkraft AB was part of the segment Other. The transaction did not have a material impact on the Group. additional rights to cover excess emissions, or the sale of unused rights in case that the realised In December 2018, Stora Enso divested 100% of shares of its Swedish subsidiary June Emballage AB emissions are below the allowances received free of charge or the impairment of allowances that are not to its current management. June Emballage is a manufacturer specialized in small-batch custom-made required for internal use. 35 Stora Enso 2019: Financials – Notes to the Consolidated financial statements – Note 6 Strategy Green certificates Auditor’s fees and services Annual Report 2019 Stora Enso is part of the local green energy production system which entitles selected mills in Sweden, Year Ended 31 December Belgium and Poland to receive green certificates based on megawatt hours of green energy produced. EUR million 2019 2018 Green certificates represent the environmental value of renewable energy generated. The certificates can Audit fees 4 4 be traded separately from the energy produced. Several countries use green certificates as a means to Audit-related 0 0 bring green electricity generation closer to a market economy instead of more bureaucratic investment Tax fees 0 0 support and feed-in tariffs. The certificates are typically received free of charge and they can be traded Other fees 0 1 in the local market to offset part of the production costs. Green certificates are often sold to electricity distributors which have a quota obligation to buy a certain percentage of their electricity from renewable Total 4 5 Financials sources. Green certificates validate that the electricity has been produced from sustainable sources. All certificates received are recognized at grant date market value only in the Balance Sheet. Certificates Aggregate fees for professional services rendered to the Group principal auditor PwC amounted to EUR 4 are posted to prepaid costs and accrued income, and a corresponding liability is entered into accrued (EUR 5) million. Audit fees relate to the auditing of the annual financial statements or ancillary services Stora Enso in 2019 liabilities and deferred income. As such, fluctuation in market prices does not have an impact on the normally provided in connection with statutory and regulatory filings. Audit-related fees are incurred for Income statement. The income is recognised only when the certificate is sold. assurance and associated services that are reasonably related to the performance of the audit or for the Report of the review of financial statements. Board of Directors Sustainability Other operating income and expense Year Ended 31 December Consolidated financial EUR million 2019 2018 Note 6 Personnel expenses statements Other operating income Personnel expenses Emission rights granted and disposal gains 50 32 Notes to the Consolidated Sale of green certificates 26 32 Year Ended 31 December financial statements Capital gains on sale of intangible assets and property, plant and EUR million 2019 2018 equipment 2 4 Wages and salaries 1 004 1 000 Parent Company Stora Enso Dividend and gain on sale of unlisted shares 2 0 Pensions (see below) 166 170 Oyj financial statements Insurance compensation 7 4 Share-based remuneration (Note 21) 3 7 Rent and other 68 14 Other statutory employer costs 136 134 Notes to the parent company Government grants 9 6 Other voluntary costs 21 19 financial statements Total 165 92 Total 1 331 1 330 Signatures for the financial Other operating expenses include Pensions statements Lease expenses 34 96 Year Ended 31 December Research and development 100 104 Financials EUR million 2019 2018 Auditor’s report Credit losses, net of reversals 9 8 Defined benefit plans 10 10 CTA release 185 28 Defined contribution plans 156 160 Stora Enso in capital markets Total 166 170 Materials and services include Stora Enso as a taxpayer Emissions rights to be delivered and disposal losses 33 23 The average number of employees in 2019 amounted to 26 096 compared with 26 067 in 2018. Pension costs are discussed further in Note 20 Post-employment benefits. Capacities by mill in 2020 The Group has recorded an other operating income of EUR 50 (EUR 32) million related to emissions. Under In 2019, the expense of the share-based remuneration was EUR 3 (EUR 7) million. Share-based materials and services an expense of EUR 33 (EUR 23) million has been booked related to the cost of CO2 remuneration comprising of share awards and related hedges are described in more detail in Note 21 Information for shareholders emissions from production. Actual realised profits amounted to EUR 17 (EUR 8) million on the disposal of Employee variable compensation and equity incentive schemes. Remuneration of the Group Leadership surplus rights and EUR 4 (EUR 3) million is the value of excess emission rights held at the year end. Team and Board are described in Note 7 Board and executive remuneration. The Group also generates income from its renewable power generation in Belgium, Sweden and Poland. Based on this, the Group is entitled to Green certificates related to our investment s in green energy production in these countries. Green certificates are sold onwards to electricity retailers for fulfilling their renewable quota obligations. The income from the sale of green certificates amounted to EUR 26 (EUR 32) million. As from 1 January 2019, lease expenses include expenses relating to short-term leases of EUR 13 million, Governance low-value asset of EUR 19 million, and variable lease payments not included in the measurement of lease liabilities of EUR 3 million. Lease expenses also include service payments included in lease contracts, which are not included in the measurement of lease liabilities. More details regarding CTA are presented in Note 4 Acquisition and disposals. 36 Stora Enso 2019: Financials – Notes to the Consolidated financial statements – Note 7 Strategy Note 7 Board and executive remuneration The following Board members also served in 2019 Annual Report 2019 Shares held when Board Effective date of Board Board and committee remuneration membership ended membership ending Year Ended 31 December Anne Brunila 20 121 14 March 2019 2019 2018 Value of EUR thousand (before taxes) Cash shares1 Total4 Total Committee memberships Group Leadership Team (GLT) remuneration and share interests Board members at 31 December 2019 The table below includes the remuneration paid to GLT members during the year, including those shares Remuneration, Nomination2,3, vested in that year. The company recommends and expects the CEO and GLT members to hold Stora Enso Financials Jorma Eloranta, Chair 140 77 217 200 Financial and Audit shares at a value corresponding to at least one annual base salary. Stora Enso shares received as Hans Stråberg, Vice Chair 71 44 115 109 Remuneration, Nomination2,3 remuneration are therefore recommended not to be sold until this level has been reached. Elisabeth Fleuriot 58 30 88 78 Financial and Audit The aggregate cost of remuneration for GLT in 2019 amounted to EUR 11.7 (EUR 12.2) million. The total Stora Enso in 2019 number of GLT members was eleven (twelve) at year end in 2019. Hock Goh 50 30 80 78 Sustainability and Ethics Mikko Helander 44 30 74 0 In accordance with their respective pension arrangements, GLT members may retire at sixty-five years Report of the of age with pensions consistent with local practices in their respective home countries. Contracts of Christiane Kuehne 54 30 84 86 Sustainability and Ethics Board of Directors Sustainability employment provide for six months’ notice prior to termination with severance compensation of twelve Antti Mäkinen 50 30 80 86 Remuneration months basic salary if the termination is at the Company’s request. Richard Nilsson 65 30 95 93 Financial and Audit Consolidated financial The outcome of the financial targets relating to the Short term incentive programmes for the Göran Sandberg 50 30 80 78 Sustainability and Ethics statements Former Board members performance year 2018, and Long term incentive programmes for the performance years 2016 to 2018 were reviewed and confirmed by the Remuneration Committee in the ordinary February meeting, and Anne Brunila (until 14 March 2019) 0 0 0 82 approved by the Board of Directors in February. Notes to the Consolidated Total remuneration as Directors1 582 331 913 891 Note 21 Employee variable compensation and equity incentive schemes includes details of incentive financial statements 1 40% of the Board remuneration, excluding Committee remuneration, in 2019 was paid in Stora Enso R shares purchased from schemes and share opportunity programmes for the management and staff of Stora Enso. the market and distributed as follows: to Chair 6 695 R shares, Vice Chair 3 801 R shares, and members 2 580 R shares each. Parent Company Stora Enso The Company has no formal policy requirements for the Board members to retain shares received as remuneration. Stora Enso’s Shareholders’ Nomination Board has been appointed by the AGM in 2016 to exist until otherwise decided. Group Leadership Team remuneration Oyj financial statements 2 The Shareholders’ Nomination Board according to its Charter as approved by the AGM comprises of four members: the Chair and Vice Year Ended 31 December Chair of the Board of Directors, as well as two members appointed by the two largest shareholders (one each) as of 31 August each 2019 2018 Notes to the parent company year. No separate remuneration is paid to members of the Shareholders’ Nomination Board. 3 Marcus Wallenberg, appointed by FAM AB, is Chair of the Nomination Board. Harri Sailas is the member of the Shareholders’ Former financial statements Nomination Board appointed by Solidium Oy. Jorma Eloranta and Hans Stråberg were appointed as members of the Shareholders’ EUR thousand CEO1 CEO2,4 Others3 GLT Total CEO Others GLT Total Nomination Board in their roles as Chair and Vice Chair of the Board of Directors. 4 The Company additionally pays the transfer tax for share purchases for each member, in line with AGM decision, which amount is Remuneration7 Signatures for the financial considered also taxable income for each member. Annual salary 75 887 3 756 4 717 905 3 589 4 494 statements Local housing (actual costs) 0 0 0 0 0 22 22 Shareholders at the Annual General Meeting (AGM) have established a Shareholders’ Nomination Board Financials Other benefits 2 19 373 394 20 385 405 Auditor’s report to exist until otherwise decided and to annually prepare proposals for the AGM’s approval concerning the Termination benefits 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 number of members of the Board of Directors, the Chair, Vice Chair and other members of the Board, as Short term incentive programme6 0 571 1 467 2 039 611 1 089 1 700 Stora Enso in capital markets well as the remuneration for the Chair, Vice Chair and members of the Board and its committees. Long term incentive programme6 0 566 1 508 2 073 845 2 431 3 276 77 2 043 7 104 9 224 2 381 7 516 9 897 Stora Enso as a taxpayer Board share interests at 31 December 2019 Pension Costs Shares held1 Mandatory plans 23 62 1 396 1 481 66 1 296 1 362 Capacities by mill in 2020 A R Stora Enso voluntary plans5 0 464 539 1 003 478 447 925 Board members at 31 December 2019 23 526 1 934 2 484 544 1 743 2 287 Information for shareholders Jorma Eloranta, Chair 1 150 27 076 Total Compensation 100 2 569 9 038 11 708 2 925 9 259 12 184 Hans Stråberg, Vice Chair 41 291 1 CEO remuneration consists of remuneration delivered to Annica Bresky from her appointment as President and CEO on 1 December 2019. Elisabeth Fleuriot 23 731 2 Former CEO remuneration consists of remuneration delivered to Karl-Henrik Sundström for the period up until his last day as CEO Hock Goh 28 484 (30 November 2019). Mikko Helander 4 298 3 Amounts include payments related to Annica Bresky until 30 November 2019 and Gilles van Nieuwenhuyzen until 6 December 2019. Payments related to the new GLT member Hannu Kasurinen have been included from 4 December 2019. Christiane Kuehne 8 292 4 For the former CEO, Short term incentives for the financial year 2019 will be paid out on the normal payout date in March 2020. Antti Mäkinen 4 717 The former CEO did not receive any other termination benefits such as severance pay. Governance 5 The former CEO participates in the Swedish Executive Pension Plan where pension accruals are unfunded for all participants, the liability Richard Nilsson 20 834 is calculated and insured in accordance with Swedish legislation. The liability for the former CEO amounts to EUR 3 052 thousand. Göran Sandberg 6 792 6 The pay-outs for Short term incentive in March 2019 were based on 2018 results and for Long term incentive payouts in March 2019 were based on 2016-2018 results. Disclosed amounts are included for the executives who were GLT members at the time of the payment. Total shares held 1 150 165 515 7 Remuneration for executives is disclosed only for the period during which they were GLT members. 1 Board members’ related parties hold no Stora Enso shares. 37 Stora Enso 2019: Financials – Notes to the Consolidated financial statements – Note 7 Strategy Executives other than CEO the opportunity is in restricted shares, for which vesting is only subject to continued employment. In the Annual Report 2019 2018 and 2019 programme, the CEO was granted all (100%) of the opportunity in performance shares. Short term incentive (STI) programmes for management The CEO has the potential to receive a value corresponding to a maximum of 27 160 shares before In 2019, GLT members have STI programmes with up to a maximum of 50% or 60% of their annual fixed taxes under the 2019 LTI programme. The grant value of EUR 331 018 is based on the share price at the salary, payable the year after the performance period. 70% of the STI for 2018 and 2019 was based on grant date and assuming a maximum vesting level during the three-year vesting period is achieved. During financial measures and 30% on Individual Key Targets. the year, the 2016 programme vested in one portion after three years, dependent on Economic Value Added (EVA) for the Stora Enso Group. There has been no settlement of shares to the CEO during the year. Long term incentive (LTI) programmes for management The actual gross number of shares before taxes settled for the former CEO amounted to 46 649 with a cash Since 2014, the LTI programmes have had three-year targets and vest in one portion only after three years, value of EUR 568 544 before taxes, based on the share price EUR 12.19 on the 1 March 2019 settlement Financials and the absolute maximum vesting level is 100% of the number of shares granted. Three quarters (75%) of date. The total number of shares actually transferred was lower because a portion of shares corresponding the opportunity under the 2016-2017 programmes is in Performance Shares, where the shares are vested to the tax obligation was withheld to cover income tax. in accordance with performance criteria proposed by the Remuneration Committee and approved by the Stora Enso in 2019 Board of Directors. One quarter (25%) of the opportunity under the 2016-2017 programmes is in Restricted Group Leadership Team share interests Shares, for which vesting is only subject to continued employment. Report of the The 2018 LTI programme was changed so that GLT members will receive only Performance shares, and Performance share Restricted Board of Directors Executives in office at the year end R shares held1 opportunity2 share opportunity2 Sustainability no Restricted shares. Under the 2019 LTI programme, GLT members (in GLT at year end) can potentially receive a value Annica Bresky 0 76 561 8 397 Consolidated financial corresponding to 196 273 shares before taxes, assuming the maximum vesting level during the three-year Seppo Parvi 32 202 63 149 6 454 statements vesting period (2019-2021) is achieved. The total number of shares actually transferred will be lower Malin Bendz 19 162 44 776 4 539 because a portion of shares corresponding to the tax obligation will be withheld to cover income tax. Johanna Hagelberg 16 039 48 164 5 091 Notes to the Consolidated The fair value of employee services received in exchange for share-based compensation payments Kati ter Horst 38 772 81 011 8 043 is accounted for in a manner that is consistent with the method of settlement and is either cash or equity Hannu Kasurinen 31 486 17 903 5 967 financial statements settled as described in more detail in Note 21. For the equity settled part, it is possible that the actual cash Ulrika Lilja 25 732 42 304 4 471 cost does not agree with the accounting charges because the share price is not updated at the time of Parent Company Stora Enso Per Lyrvall3 59 362 60 516 6 450 the vesting. The figures in the Group Leadership Team Remuneration table refer to individuals who were Markus Mannström 18 392 52 084 3 601 Oyj financial statements executives at the time of settlement. Noel Morrin 33 756 49 256 5 382 During the year, the 2016 programme vested in one portion after three years, dependent on Economic Notes to the parent company Jari Suominen 37 985 59 337 6 121 Value Added (EVA) for the Stora Enso Group. The number of shares settled on executives (GLT members Total, serving officers4 312 888 595 061 64 516 financial statements at settlement date) from previous Restricted Share programmes and Performance Share programmes amounted to 128 076, with a cash value of EUR 1 560 947 before taxes, based on the share price of 1 None of the GLT members holds A shares. 2 Potential shares to GLT members listed here are gross of taxes for the LTI programmes started in 2017, 2018, and 2019 covering three Signatures for the financial EUR 12.19 on the 1 March 2019 settlement date. year periods during 2017-2021, with vesting in 2020, 2021 and 2022 respectively. statements 3 Spouse holds 1 257 of the shares. President & Chief Executive Officer – Annica Bresky 4 The Company recommends and expects GLT members to hold Stora Enso shares at a value corresponding to at least one annual Financials base salary. Stora Enso shares received as remuneration are therefore recommended not to be sold until this level has been reached. Auditor’s report The CEO has been employed by Stora Enso since 1 May 2017 and assumed the position as CEO on 1 December 2019. She has a notice period of six months with a severance payment of twelve months Stora Enso in capital markets salary on termination by the company but with no contractual payments on any change of control. The The following R shares held when Performance share Restricted share CEO’s benefits include pension provisions. The CEO’s pension plan has contributions equal to the Executive Officers GLT membership awards when GLT awards when GLT Effective date of GLT collectively agreed pension plan in Sweden (ITP1), with a pensionable salary consisting of annual base also served in 2019 ended membership ended membership ended2 membership ending 2 Stora Enso as a taxpayer Karl-Henrik salary, vacation pay, and actual paid STI. The retirement age is sixty-five years. Sundström¹ 166 011 204 343 20 350 30 November 2019 Capacities by mill in 2020 Gilles van Short term incentive (STI) programme for CEO Nieuwenhuyzen 19 610 82 042 8 797 6 December 2019 In 2019, the CEO is entitled to an STI programme decided by the Board each year giving a maximum of Information for shareholders 75% of the annual fixed salary. The STI for 2018 and 2019 was 70%, based on financial measures, and 1 41 700 of the shares are held by a related party (Alma Patria AB). 2 These shares are forfeited at end of employment, except for the LTI 2017 shares which have been earned at the time employment 30%, based on Individual Key Targets. ended and vest at the normal vesting date in March 2020. Long term incentive (LTI) programmes for CEO The CEO participates in 2017, 2018 and 2019 share based LTI programmes. The programmes have threeyear targets and vest in only one portion after three years. The 2017 programme is related to performance periods 2017-2019, the 2018 programme is related to performance periods 2018-2020 and the 2019 Governance programme is related to performance periods 2019-2021. Three quarters (75%) of the opportunity in the 2017 programme is in performance shares, where shares will vest in accordance with performance criteria proposed by the Remuneration Committee and approved by the Board of Directors. One quarter (25%) of 38 Stora Enso 2019: Financials – Notes to the Consolidated financial statements – Note 8 Strategy Note 8 Net financial items Note 9 Income taxes Annual Report 2019 Accounting principles Accounting principles Net financial items comprise net interest expenses, foreign exchange gains and losses and other The Group income tax expense/benefit includes taxes of group companies based on taxable profit/loss financial income and expenses mainly arising from interest-bearing assets and liabilities. for the period, together with tax adjustments for previous periods and the change in deferred income taxes. Tax assets and liabilities reflect uncertainty related to income taxes, if any. Financial income and expense Deferred income taxes are provided using the liability method, as measured with enacted, or Financials Year Ended 31 December substantially enacted, tax rates, to reflect the net tax effects of all temporary differences between the EUR million 2019 2018 tax bases and the accounting bases of assets and liabilities. No deferred tax is recognised for the initial Net financial expense in the Income Statement recognition of goodwill and the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction which is not Stora Enso in 2019 a business combination, and at the time of the transaction this affects neither accounting profit nor Financial income 8 27 taxable profit. Deferred tax assets reduce income taxes payable on taxable income in future years. The Report of the Financial expense -176 -207 deferred tax assets, whether arising from temporary differences or from tax losses, are recognised only Board of Directors Total -168 -180 Sustainability to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the assets can be utilised. Consolidated financial Represented by Interest expense Tax expense statements Interest expense from borrowings measured at amortised cost -121 -126 Year Ended 31 December Net interest from interest rate derivatives measured at fair value Notes to the Consolidated through OCI -13 -6 EUR million 2019 2018 financial statements Interest expense on leases (IFRS 16) -20 0 Current Tax -132 -166 Interest expense on finance leases (IAS 17) 0 -1 Deferred Tax -149 -55 Parent Company Stora Enso Interest income on loans and receivables measured at amortised cost 7 4 Total Tax -281 -221 Oyj financial statements Net interest expense -147 -129 Income tax rate reconciliation Notes to the parent company Foreign exchange gains and losses Year Ended 31 December financial statements Currency derivatives 0 22 EUR million 2019 2018 Borrowings, deposits and lease liabilities -6 -55 Profit before tax 1 137 1 210 Signatures for the financial Net foreign exchange gains and losses -6 -33 Tax at statutory rates applicable to profits in the country concerned1 -235 -247 statements Non-deductible expenses and tax exempt income2 -41 13 Financials Other financial income 0 1 Valuation of deferred tax assets -53 -17 Auditor’s report Other financial expense Taxes from prior years 2 -23 Financial fees -8 -10 Changes in tax rates and tax laws -2 9 Stora Enso in capital markets Fair valuation losses 0 -3 Profits from equity accounted investments 48 39 Net interest on net defined benefit liabilities -7 -6 Other 0 3 Stora Enso as a taxpayer Net other financial expense -15 -19 Total tax -281 -221 Effective tax rate 24.7% 18.3% Capacities by mill in 2020 Total -168 -180 Statutory tax rate (blended) 20.7% 20.4% Gains and losses on derivative financial instruments are shown in Note 27 Derivatives. Information for shareholders 1 Includes a EUR 17 million impact from countries with tax holidays and tax benefits in 2019 and a EUR 21 million impact from tax holidays and other tax benefits in 2018. In 2019, the net interest expense increased mainly as a result of higher gross debt level and the 2 The tax value of non-deductible expenses of EUR 50 million has been netted against a tax exempt income of EUR 9 million in 2019, and the tax value of non-deductible expenses of EUR 26 million has been netted against a tax exempt income of EUR 39 million in 2018. implementation of IFRS 16 standard, partly offset by lower average interest expense rate on borrowings. The capitalised borrowing costs were EUR 0 million in 2019 (EUR nil). Costs on long-term debt issues The statutory tax rate is a weighted average of the statutory tax rates prevailing in jurisdictions where capitalised as part of non-current debt amounted to EUR 12 (EUR 14) million in the Statement of financial Stora Enso operates. position. During the year, EUR 5 (EUR 5) million was amortised through interest expense by using the effective interest rate method. Governance Exchange gains and losses for currency derivatives mainly relate to non-hedge accounted instruments fair valued in the Income statement. The amount reported under financial fees in the table above mainly relates to net financial fees for unused committed credit facilities, guarantees and rating agencies. 39 Stora Enso 2019: Financials – Notes to the Consolidated financial statements – Note 10 Strategy Change in deferred taxes in 2019 Tax losses of EUR 328 (EUR 332) million relate to Finland. A deferred tax asset of EUR 66 (EUR 66) million Annual Report 2019 Value at Income Acquisitions/ Translation Value at has been recognized relating to these tax losses, as it is evident considering the recent history of profit EUR million 1 Jan 2019 Statement OCI disposals difference 31 Dec 2019 in Finland, the outlook and tax planning opportunities that the full amount of tax losses in Finland will be Fixed assets and biological utilized before its expiration. assets -175 -158 0 -605 -1 -939 Non-recognised deferred tax assets on deductible temporary differences amounted to EUR 50 Financial instruments -1 0 2 0 0 1 (EUR 39) million. There is no expiry date for these differences. Taxable temporary differences in respect of Untaxed reserves -19 16 0 -1 2 -2 investments in subsidiaries, branches and associates and interests in joint ventures, for which deferred tax Pensions and provisions 62 2 6 0 -1 69 liabilities have not been recognised amounted to EUR 330 (EUR 224) million. Tax losses and tax credits Financials carried forward 90 -5 0 0 -1 84 Uncertain tax positions Other deferred taxes -5 -2 0 0 0 -7 At balance sheet date there were on-going tax audits in several jurisdictions. It is not expected that any Total -48 -147 8 -606 -1 -794 significant additional taxes in excess of those already recorded for will arise as a result of these audits. Stora Enso in 2019 Equity hedges (CTA) -1 1 Change in deferred tax -48 -148 9 -606 -1 -794 The tax liabilities of EUR 48 (EUR 92) million include an amount of EUR 33 (EUR 32) million for an uncertain Report of the Assets1 120 81 tax position in Sweden due to a dispute concerning the deduction of interest expense. Board of Directors Sustainability Liabilities1 -168 -875 Deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset in accordance with IAS 12. Note 10 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment charges 1 Consolidated financial statements Change in deferred taxes in 2018 Notes to the Consolidated Value at Income Acquisitions/ Translation Value at Accounting principles EUR million 1 Jan 2018 Statement OCI disposals difference 31 Dec 2018 financial statements Fixed assets and biological Depreciation, amortisation and impairment charges assets -163 -14 0 0 2 -175 Depreciation or amortisation of an asset begins when it is available for use in the location and condition Parent Company Stora Enso Financial instruments -7 0 6 0 0 -1 necessary for it to be operated in the manner intended by management. Depreciation or amortisation Oyj financial statements Untaxed reserves -15 -6 0 0 2 -19 ceases when the asset is derecognised or classified as held for sale in accordance with IFRS 5. Pensions and provisions 46 13 4 0 -1 62 Depreciation or amortisation does not cease when the asset becomes idle. Tangible and intangible Notes to the parent company Tax losses and tax credits assets are depreciated and amortised on a straight-line basis during their useful lives. Useful lives are financial statements carried forward 127 -39 0 1 1 90 reviewed periodically. If an asset is disposed of, proceeds exceeding the carrying value of the asset Other deferred taxes 0 -6 0 0 1 -5 up to its historical cost are netted against depreciation, amortisation and impairment charges. Only Signatures for the financial Total -12 -52 10 1 5 -48 disposal proceeds exceeding the historical cost of an asset are presented as other operating income statements Equity hedges (CTA) -3 3 (Note 5). If the asset’s book value is higher than the disposal proceeds, the difference is recognised Change in deferred tax -12 -55 13 1 5 -48 as an impairment in the period when a binding sales contract is signed. Right-of-use (ROU) assets are Financials Auditor’s report Assets1 154 120 depreciated using the straight line method from the commencement date of the contract to the earlier of Liabilities1 -166 -168 the end of the lease term or the end of the useful life of the ROU assets. Stora Enso in capital markets The carrying amounts of intangible assets, property, plant and equipment and ROU assets are 1 Deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset in accordance with IAS 12. reviewed at each reporting date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment, whereas Stora Enso as a taxpayer goodwill is tested annually. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount is estimated as The recognition of deferred tax assets is based on the Group’s estimations of future taxable profits available the higher of the fair value less costs of disposal and the value in use, with an impairment loss being against which the group can utilise the benefits. recognised whenever the carrying amount exceeds the recoverable amount. Capacities by mill in 2020 A previously recognised impairment loss is reversed if there has been a change in the estimates Tax losses used to determine the recoverable amount, however, not to an extent higher than the carrying amount Information for shareholders that would have existed had no impairment loss been recognised in prior years. For goodwill, however, As at 31 December Tax losses carried forward Recognised tax values Unrecognised tax values a recognised impairment loss is not reversed. EUR million 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Whilst intangible assets, property, plant and equipment and ROU assets are subject to impairment testing at the cash generating unit (CGU) level, goodwill is subject to impairment testing at the CGU Expiry within five years 786 703 63 71 79 58 level for groups of CGUs, which represents the lowest level within the group at which goodwill is Expiry after five years 20 131 4 5 0 27 monitored for internal management purposes. No expiry 1 212 1 030 11 13 242 202 Governance Total 2 018 1 864 78 89 321 287 40 Stora Enso 2019: Financials – Notes to the Consolidated financial statements – Note 10 Strategy Depreciation, amortisation and impairment charges Impairments were tested using a value in use method for each CGU based on the following main Annual Report 2019 assumptions: Year ended 31 December EUR million 2019 2018 • Sales price estimates in accordance with internal and external specialist analysis Depreciation and amortisation • Cash flows and discount rates were prepared in real terms • Current cost structure to remain unchanged Intangible assets 27 23 • For goodwill testing a five-year future period was used after which the perpetuity value was based on Buildings and structures 83 78 zero growth rates, whereas for intangible assets, property, plant and equipment and ROU assets testing Plant and equipment 356 368 the period was the remaining expected economic life of the assets. Right-of-use assets 70 0 Financials Other tangible assets 10 10 Property, plant and equipment, other intangible assets and ROU assets impairments Total 546 479 The total impairment charges on property, plant and equipment, other intangible assets and ROU assets Impairment in 2019 amounted to EUR 78 (EUR 1) million and resulted from business restructurings, Group company Stora Enso in 2019 Goodwill 0 0 disposals and impairment testing. Intangible assets 4 0 Impairment reversals amounted to EUR 21 (EUR 0) million. In 2019, and in connection to Oulu Mill Report of the Buildings and structures 5 0 conversion project, Containerboard CGU in Packaging Solutions division was tested for fixed asset Board of Directors Sustainability Plant and equipment 66 1 impairment reversal and a reversal of EUR 21 million was recognised. In 2019, certain assets in Nordic Right-of-use assets 3 0 and Innovation CGU in the Biomaterials division were tested for fixed asset impairment and an impairment Consolidated financial Other tangible assets 0 0 charge of EUR 43 million was recognised. statements Total 78 1 Reversal of impairment Goodwill impairment testing Notes to the Consolidated Intangible assets 0 0 In 2019 or 2018, the Goodwill testing did not result in any impairment. financial statements Buildings and structures -21 0 Plant and equipment 0 0 Parent Company Stora Enso Total -21 0 Oyj financial statements Disposal gains/losses Gain on sale of assets -7 -4 Notes to the parent company Loss on sale of assets 2 4 financial statements Total -5 -1 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment charges 597 479 Signatures for the financial statements Depreciation and amortisation Financials Auditor’s report The total depreciation and amortisation charge amounted to EUR 546 million and was EUR 67 million more than in 2018 due to depreciation of ROU assets. A breakdown of depreciation, amortisation and Stora Enso in capital markets impairment charges by divisions is set out in Note 3 Segment information. Stora Enso as a taxpayer Disposal gains and losses There were no material disposal gains or losses relating to fixed assets in 2019 or 2018. Capacities by mill in 2020 Impairment testing The recoverable amount for the cash generating units (CGUs) has been determined based on a value in use Information for shareholders calculation using cash flow projections from financial estimates approved by the Board of Directors and management. The pre-tax discount rates are calculated for each CGU taking into account the business environment of the CGU and the tax and risk profile of the country in which the cash flow is generated. The table in the goodwill impairment testing section below sets out the pre-tax discount rates used for goodwill impairment testing, which are similar to those used in the impairment testing of other intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, and ROU assets. Governance 41 Stora Enso 2019: Financials – Notes to the Consolidated financial statements – Note 10 Strategy The most material groups of cash generating units containing goodwill Annual Report 2019 Year ended 31 December 2019 2018 Intangible assets, Intangible assets property, plant and property, and equipment plant and Goodwill and ROU assets Recoverable Impairment Pre-tax Goodwill equipment Recoverable Impairment Pre-tax EUR million at year end at year end amount charge discount rate at year end at year end amount charge discount rate Wood Products Central Europe 108 163 1 182 0 5.4% 107 155 1 155 0 5.7% Financials Paper Newsprint and Book Paper 52 235 769 0 5.7% 43 238 492 0 5.7% Paper Uncoated Magazine Paper 40 231 667 0 5.7% 40 242 477 0 5.7% Biomaterials Nordic and Innovation 49 376 2 888 0 5.9% 34 369 2 927 0 6.2% Stora Enso in 2019 Other CGUs1 54 0 19 0 Total 302 1 005 5 506 0 243 1 004 5 051 0 Report of the 1 Other CGUs line is including Packaging Solutions Europe, Consumer Board operations in Sweden, Wood Products Northern Europe and Office Paper cash generating units. Board of Directors Sustainability Consolidated financial Impairment and impairment reversals per division statements Year ended 31 December EUR million 2019 2018 Notes to the Consolidated Consumer Board 7 0 financial statements Packaging Solutions -17 0 Biomaterials 43 0 Parent Company Stora Enso Wood Products 8 0 Oyj financial statements Paper 11 1 Other 4 0 Notes to the parent company Total (impairment +) / (Impairment reversal -) 56 1 financial statements The calculation of value-in-use is highly sensitive to discount rates, sales prices and costs. The Sensitivity Signatures for the financial Analysis table below summarises what effect a 1% change in the discount rate, 1% decrease in sales statements prices and 1% increase in costs would have had on the recoverable amounts of the groups of CGUs carrying most of the group’s total goodwill. Financials Auditor’s report Goodwill testing sensitivity analysis, impact on recoverable amount Stora Enso in capital markets Biomaterials Wood Products Paper Newsprint Paper Uncoated Nordic and EUR million Central Europe and Book Magazine Paper Innovation Stora Enso as a taxpayer 1% increase in the discount rate -272 -157 -128 -687 Capacities by mill in 2020 1% annual decrease in the sales prices -211 -189 -111 -221 Information for shareholders 1% annual increase in the costs -188 -174 -100 -171 Governance 42 Stora Enso 2019: Financials – Notes to the Consolidated financial statements – Note 11 Strategy Note 11 Intangible assets, property, plant depreciation and any impairment charges. Interest costs on borrowings to finance the construction of Annual Report 2019 and equipment and right-of-use assets these assets are capitalised as part of the cost during the construction period when the requirements are fulfilled. Land and water areas are not depreciated, as these are deemed to have an indefinite life, but Accounting principles otherwise depreciation is based on the following expected useful lives: Asset class Depreciation years Computer software development costs Buildings, industrial 10-50 The cost of development or acquisition of new software clearly associated with an identifiable and Buildings, office & residential 20-50 unique product that will be controlled by the Group and has a probable benefit exceeding its cost Financials beyond one year is recognised as an intangible asset and will be amortised over the expected useful life Groundwood mills Hydroelectric power 15-20 40 of the software between 3 to 10 years. Website costs are expensed as incurred. Paper, board and pulp mills, main machines 20-30 Stora Enso in 2019 Goodwill Heavy machinery 10-20 Goodwill represents future economic benefits arising from assets that are not capable of being Converting factories 10-15 Report of the individually identified and separately recognised by the Group on an acquisition. Goodwill is Sawmills 10-15 Board of Directors Computers 3-5 Sustainability computed as the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the Group’s share of the fair value of net assets of the acquired subsidiary at the acquisition date, and is allocated to those groups Vehicles 5 Consolidated financial of cash generating units expected to benefit from the acquisition for the purpose of impairment Office equipment 3-5 statements testing. In compliance with IFRS 3, the cost of an acquisition is equal to the sum of the consideration Railway, harbours 20-25 transferred, the value of the non-controlling interest in the acquisition, and the fair value of the Forest roads 10-15 Notes to the Consolidated previously held interest in the acquired subsidiary. Goodwill arising on the acquisition of non-euro Roads, fields, bridges 15-20 foreign entities is treated as an asset of the foreign entity denominated in the local currency and financial statements translated at the closing rate. Ordinary maintenance and repair charges are written as expensed as incurred, but the costs of Goodwill is not amortised but tested for impairment on an annual basis, or more frequently if there significant renewals and improvements are capitalised and depreciated over the remaining useful Parent Company Stora Enso is an indication of impairment. Gains and losses on the disposal of a Group entity include any goodwill lives of the related assets. Retirements, sales and disposals of property, plant and equipment are Oyj financial statements relating to the entity sold. recorded by deducting the cost and accumulated depreciation from the accounting records with any Goodwill arising from the acquisition of an equity accounted investment or joint arrangement resulting terminal depreciation adjustments reflected in impairment charges in the Consolidated income Notes to the parent company is included in the carrying amount of the investment and is assessed for impairment as part of that statement. Capital gains are shown in other operating income. financial statements investment. Any excess of the Group’s share of the net fair value over the cost of the acquisition, after Spare parts are accounted for as property, plant and equipment if they are major and used over more reassessment, is recognised immediately in the income statement. than one period, or if they are used only in connection with an item of property, plant and equipment. Signatures for the financial In all other cases, spare parts are carried as part of the inventory and recognised in profit or loss as statements Intangible assets consumed items. Intangible assets are stated at their historical cost and amortised on a straight-line basis over Financials Auditor’s report their expected useful lives, which usually varies from 3 to 10 years and up to 20 years for patents. Right-of-use (ROU) assets An adjustment is made for any impairment. Intangible items acquired must be recognised as assets As from 1 January 2019 and in accordance with IFRS 16, at inception of a contract, the Group assesses Stora Enso in capital markets separately from goodwill if they meet the definition of an asset, are either separable or arise from whether a contract is, or contains, a lease. A contract is, or contains, a lease if the contract conveys the contractual or other legal rights, and their fair value can be measured reliably. right to control the use of an identified asset for a period of time in exchange for consideration. ROU Stora Enso as a taxpayer Intangible assets recognised separately from goodwill in acquisitions consist of marketing assets are initially measured at cost, which comprises the initial amount of the lease liability adjusted and customer-related or contract and technology-based intangible assets. Typical marketing and mainly for lease payments made at or before the commencement date. The Group allocates the customer-related assets include trademarks, trade names, service marks, collective marks, certification consideration in the contract to each lease component and will separate non-lease components if these Capacities by mill in 2020 marks, customer lists, order or production backlogs, customer contracts and the related customer are identifiable. Lease terms are negotiated on an individual basis and contain a wide range of different relationships. Contract and technology-based intangible assets are normally licensing and royalty terms and conditions. Information for shareholders agreements or patented technology and trade secrets, such as confidential formulas, processes or The ROU assets are subsequently depreciated using the straight line method from the recipes. The fair value determination of customer contracts and related relationships is derived from commencement date to the earlier of the end of the lease term or the end of the useful life of the ROU expected retention rates and cash flow over the customers’ remaining estimated lifetime. The value of asset. In addition, the ROU asset is adjusted for certain remeasurements of the lease liability. ROU trademarks is derived from a discounted cash flow analysis using the relief from royalty method. assets are tested for impairment in accordance with IAS 36. The Group has elected not to recognise ROU assets for short-term leases that have a lease term Property, plant and equipment of 12 months or less and leases of low value assets. Leases of low value assets mainly include IT and Property, plant and equipment acquired by Group companies are stated at their historical cost, which office equipment, certain vehicles and machinery and other low value items. The Group recognises Governance are augmented where appropriate by asset retirement costs. Assets arising on the acquisition of a new the lease payments associated with these leases as an expense on a straight-line basis over the lease subsidiary are stated at fair value at the date of acquisition. Depreciation is computed on a straight-line term (Note 5). basis, and adjusted for any impairment and disposal charges. The Consolidated statement of financial position value represents the cost deducted by received grants and subsidies and less the accumulated 43 Stora Enso 2019: Financials – Notes to the Consolidated financial statements – Note 11 Strategy Intangible assets Property, plant and equipment Annual Report 2019 Year ended 31 December Year ended 31 December Other Buildings Other Computer intangible Assets in Land and and Plant and tangible Assets in EUR million software assets progress Goodwill Total EUR million water structures equipment assets progress Total Acquisition cost Acquisition cost At 1 January 2018 249 176 39 1 190 1 654 At 1 January 2018 361 3 349 13 346 428 441 17 925 Translation difference -1 0 0 -1 -2 Translation difference -1 -29 -201 -8 -1 -240 Reclassifications 26 -1 -28 0 -3 Reclassifications 0 43 207 2 -249 3 Financials Additions2 13 21 16 5 55 Reclassifications to biological assets 0 -1 -2 0 0 -3 Disposals1 -62 -19 0 0 -81 Additions2 0 19 171 2 249 441 At 31 December 2018 225 177 27 1 194 1 623 Disposals1 -31 -46 -108 -4 0 -189 Stora Enso in 2019 Translation difference 0 4 0 3 7 At 31 December 2018 329 3 335 13 413 420 440 17 937 Report of the Reclassifications 6 -75 -10 0 -78 Translation difference 6 11 -49 1 9 -22 Additions2 8 3 11 57 78 Reclassifications -1 61 322 17 -403 -3 Board of Directors Sustainability Disposals1 -4 -6 0 0 -10 Reclassifications to biological assets 0 -1 -2 0 0 -2 At 31 December 2019 236 102 29 1 253 1 620 Additions2 306 42 228 28 299 904 Consolidated financial Disposals1 -2 -73 -476 -6 -1 -558 statements Accumulated amortisation and impairment At 31 December 2019 638 3 376 13 438 459 345 18 256 At 1 January 2018 209 26 0 953 1 188 Notes to the Consolidated Translation difference -1 -1 0 -2 -4 Accumulated depreciation and impairment financial statements Disposals1 -62 -19 0 0 -81 At 1 January 2018 10 2 040 10 196 360 9 12 615 Amortisation 12 11 0 0 23 Translation difference -1 -32 -177 -6 0 -216 Parent Company Stora Enso At 31 December 2018 158 17 0 951 1 126 Disposals1 -5 -41 -103 -4 0 -153 Oyj financial statements Translation difference 0 0 0 0 1 Depreciation 0 77 368 11 0 456 Disposals1 -4 -6 0 0 -10 Impairments and reversals 0 0 1 0 0 1 Notes to the parent company Amortisation 16 12 0 0 27 At 31 December 2018 4 2 044 10 285 361 9 12 703 financial statements Impairment 0 4 0 0 4 Translation difference 0 -3 -54 0 2 -55 At 31 December 2019 170 27 0 951 1 148 Additions2 0 7 17 19 0 43 Signatures for the financial Disposals1 -1 -68 -469 -6 0 -543 statements Net Book Value at 31 December 2019 65 75 29 302 471 Depreciation 0 81 356 11 0 448 Financials Impairments and reversals 0 -16 66 0 0 50 Auditor’s report Net Book Value at 31 December 2018 67 160 27 243 497 At 31 December 2019 4 2 044 10 201 386 11 12 646 Stora Enso in capital markets Company disposals are included in Disposals line. Company disposals are discussed in more detail in Note 4 Acquisitions and 1 disposals. Net Book Value at 31 December 2019 634 1 332 3 237 73 334 5 610 2 Company acquisitions are included in the Additions line. Company acquisitions are discussed in more detail in Note 4 Acquisitions Stora Enso as a taxpayer and disposals. Net Book Value at 31 December 2018 325 1 291 3 128 59 431 5 234 Capacities by mill in 2020 1 Net Book Value at 31 December 1 Company disposals are included in the Disposals line. Company disposals are discussed in more detail in Note 4 Acquisitions and disposals. 2 Company acquisitions are included in the Additions line. Company acquisitions are discussed in more detail in Note 4 Acquisitions Information for shareholders and disposals. Governance 44 Stora Enso 2019: Financials – Notes to the Consolidated financial statements – Note 12 Strategy Right-of-use assets Note 12 Biological assets Annual Report 2019 Year ended 31 December Plant and Buildings and equipment and Accounting principles EUR million Land and water structures other Total Acquisition cost The biological assets of Stora Enso consist of standing trees to be used as raw material in pulp and At 1 January 2019 292 80 158 530 mechanical wood production and as biofuels. Translation difference 3 2 0 5 IAS 41 Agriculture standard requires that biological assets are shown in the Consolidated Statement Reclassifications 80 2 0 81 of financial position at fair value. Group forests are thus accounted for at level 3 of fair value less the Financials Reclassifications to estimated point-of-sale costs at harvest, there being a presumption that fair values can be measured for biological assets -12 0 0 -12 these assets. Additions 7 6 15 29 The valuation of forest assets is based on discounted cash flow models whereby the fair value Stora Enso in 2019 Disposals 0 0 -2 -2 of the biological assets is calculated using cash flows from continuous operations, that is, based on Other changes -19 0 -34 -53 sustainable forest management plans taking into account growth potential. The yearly harvest from Report of the At 31 December 2019 352 89 138 579 the forecasted tree growth is multiplied by wood prices and the cost of silviculture and harvesting is Board of Directors Sustainability then deducted. The fair value of the biological assets are measured as the present value of the harvest Accumulated depreciation from one growth cycle based on the productive forestland, taking into consideration environmental Consolidated financial and impairment restrictions and other reservations. Young standing timber less than two years old (less than three years statements At 1 January 2019 0 0 0 0 in Montes del Plata) is considered to be an immature asset and is accounted at cost. At harvesting, Disposals 0 0 -2 -2 biological assets are transferred to the inventory. Notes to the Consolidated Depreciation 10 20 40 70 Fair value is deemed to approximate the cost when little biological transformation has taken place or the impact of the transformation on the price is not expected to be material, which varies according to financial statements Impairment 3 0 0 3 Other changes 0 0 0 1 the location and species of the assets. Stora Enso also ensures that the Group’s share of the valuation of forest holdings in equity Parent Company Stora Enso At 31 December 2019 13 20 38 71 accounted investments and joint operations are consistent with Group accounting policies. Oyj financial statements Net Book Value at 31 December 2019 340 69 99 508 The Group has biological assets in its own subsidiaries in Sweden, China and Laos, as well as in joint Notes to the parent company operations in Brazil and Uruguay and in equity accounted investments in Finland and Brazil. financial statements The value of biological assets disclosed in the group Consolidated statement of financial position from Stora Enso’s most material right-of-use assets capitalised consist of land areas used in forestry and subsidiary companies and from joint operations amounts to EUR 3 627 (EUR 457) million as shown below. Signatures for the financial industrial operations, various machinery and equipment leases including operative machinery, vessels The Group’s indirect share of biological assets held by equity accounted investments amounts to EUR 753 statements and other logistic equipment and properties including offices, warehouses and other operative properties. (EUR 2 871) million. Some of the leases contain renewal options and extension options that are considered in the lease term if Financials Auditor’s report the Group is reasonably certain to exercise the option. As at 1 January 2019 certain land use contracts, amounting to EUR 80 million, before IFRS 16 transition Stora Enso in capital markets accounted as intangible assets were classified on transition to IFRS 16 as leases. Stora Enso as a taxpayer Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment, and right-of-use asset additions The total capital expenditure for the year in Stora Enso Oyj and its subsidiaries amounted to EUR 579 Capacities by mill in 2020 (EUR 491) million. Details of ongoing projects and future plans are discussed in more detail in the Report of the Board of Directors. Information for shareholders Governance 45 Stora Enso 2019: Financials – Notes to the Consolidated financial statements – Note 12 Strategy Biological assets Subsidiaries and joint operations: Annual Report 2019 On 31 May 2019, Bergvik Väst AB, a subsidiary of Bergvik Skog AB, was distributed as dividend to the Year Ended 31 December EUR million 2019 2018 shareholders of Bergvik Skog AB. On the same date, the Group acquired an additional 20% of shares Subsidiaries and Joint Operations in Bergvik Väst AB from other shareholders, resulting in a total holding in Bergvik Väst AB of 69.8%. Simultaneously, Bergvik Väst AB was demerged and Stora Enso became the 100% owner of a new Fair Value at 1 January 457 448 subsidiary holding around 69.8% of the former Bergvik Väst AB assets and liabilities. The acquisition Translation differences2 40 -2 date of the new Swedish forest was 31 May 2019. As a result of the transaction Stora Enso’s direct forest Unrealized change in fair value1 2 546 17 holdings in Sweden are 1 408 thousand hectares, of which 1 140 thousand hectares is productive forest Additions3 2 675 83 land. Details on the Bergvik Skog AB restructuring are shown in Note 4 Acquisitions and disposals. Financials Change due to harvesting1 -98 -79 At 31 December 2019 biological assets were located by value, in Sweden 86% (0%), China 5% (36%), Other operative changes1 -6 -7 Brazil 2% (16%), Uruguay 6% (44%) and other areas less than 1% (4%). The land area comes to 1 732 Other changes -1 -7 (325) thousand hectares of which 7% (37%) is leased and under 1% (2%) is restricted. From Stora Enso’s Stora Enso in 2019 Reclassification from Property, plant and equipment 14 2 total forest holdings 1 344 thousand hectares is productive forest land. The harvested wood amounted to Fair Value of biological assets at 31 December 3 627 457 7 (4) million m3. These changes are mainly driven by the acquisition of Swedish forests. The Montes del Report of the Plata and Veracel amounts are taken into account in the ownership share and number of hectares. Board of Directors Sustainability Equity accounted investments At the end of 2019, the fair value of the biological assets in Swedish forests amounted to EUR 3 133 Bergvik Skog Ab (49.79%)2 0 2 262 (EUR 0) million. The discount rate of 4.2% used in the discounted cash flows (DCF) is determined using the Consolidated financial Tornator Oyj (41%) 740 595 weighted average cost of capital method. The productive land in Swedish forests, totals 1 140 thousand statements Arauco Florestal Arapoti S.A. (20%) 14 14 hectares with a standing stock of 120.3 million m3 solid under bark (sub). The annual harvesting is on Fair value of biological assets of Associated companies at 31 average 3.4 million m3 sub. Notes to the Consolidated December 753 2 871 At the end of 2019, the fair value of the biological assets in Guangxi, China, amounted to EUR 181 (EUR 166) million. The biological assets included young standing timber with a value of EUR 34 (EUR 29) financial statements 1 Items are recorded in the profit and loss lines. 2 The impact in 2019 was mainly due to fair valuation increase of Swedish forests, which was mostly driven by lower discount rates. million. This increase is driven by higher sales prices and volumes. The discount rate of 8.9% (8.7%) used in 3 Assets mainly acquired through Bergvik Skog AB restructuring in 2019. the discounted cash flows (DCF) is determined using the weighted average cost of capital method increased Parent Company Stora Enso slightly. The productive land in Guangxi, China, totals 76 (77) thousand hectares with a standing stock of Oyj financial statements Valuation and standing stock of forest assets in main subsidiaries, 3.1 (6.4) million m3 solid under bark (sub). The annual harvesting is on average 1.0 (1.1) million m3 sub. joint operations and equity accounted investment Veracel Celulose S.A. (Veracel), a 50% joint operation company in Brazil, had biological assets fair Notes to the parent company As at 31 December 2019 valued at EUR 172 (EUR 150) million, of which Stora Enso’s share was EUR 86 (EUR 75) million. This financial statements Swedish Veracel MdP Tornator increase is driven by higher sales prices and volumes. The biological assets included young standing Guangxi forests (50%) (50%) (41%) Total4 timber with a value of EUR 33 (EUR 33) million. The discount rate of 9.0% (8.3%) used in the DCF is Signatures for the financial Land area Total area ha 81 000 1 408 000 112 000 131 000 286 000 2 019 000 determined using the weighted average cost of capital method. Stora Enso’s share (50%) of the land area is statements of which owned 0 1 408 000 107 000 95 000 286 000 1 897 000 112 (113) thousand hectares. Stora Enso’s 50% share of the productive land in Veracel, Brazil totals 50 (44) thousand hectares with Financials of which leased 81 000 0 5 000 36 000 0 123 000 Auditor’s report Productive area ha 76 000 1 140 000 50 000 86 000 262 000 1 614 000 a share of standing stock of 3.1 (2.9) million m3 sub. The ownership share of annual harvesting is on average Total area Standing stock6 million m3 fo.1 4.3 146.3 3.8 10.0 31.5 195.8 0.9 (1.7) million m3 sub. Stora Enso in capital markets Montes del Plata (MdP), a 50% joint operation company in Uruguay, had biological assets with a fair Standing stock6 million m3 u.b.2 3.5 121.5 3.1 8.2 25.4 161.8 value of EUR 445 (EUR 398) million, of which Stora Enso’s share was EUR 222 (EUR 199) million. The Productive Stora Enso as a taxpayer Forest land Standing stock million m3 fo.1 4.2 143.2 3.8 10.0 31.0 192.1 biological assets included young standing timber with a value of EUR 55 (EUR 55) million. The discount Standing stock million m3 u.b.2 3.1 120.3 3.1 8.2 25.1 159.8 rate of 8.0% (8.0%) used in the DCF is determined using the weighted average cost of capital method. Stora Enso’s share (50%) of the land area is 131 (126) thousand hectares. Capacities by mill in 2020 Estimated Growth3 million m3 u.b.2/p.a. 0.7 4.7 0.8 1.6 1.1 8.9 Stora Enso’s 50% share of the productive land in Montes del Plata, Uruguay totals 86 (81) thousand Harvesting3 million m3 u.b.2/p.a. 1.0 3.4 0.9 1.4 1.0 7.8 hectares with a share of standing stock of 8.2 (8.1) million m3 sub. The ownership share of annual Information for shareholders Fair value5 EUR million 181 3 133 86 222 740 4 362 harvesting is on average 1.4 (1.4) million m3 sub. Productive land area EUR/ha 2 385 2 749 1 716 2 608 2 824 2 703 Equity accounted investments: 1 forest cubic metres The Group has two equity accounted investments holding biological assets: 2 solid under bark cubic metres 3 Swedish forests harvesting volume is annualised based on June-December outcome. Estimated Growth is a full year estimate. • Tornator Oyj (Tornator), a 41% owned Finnish associated company, had biological assets with a fair 4 Total figures exclude minor forest ownerships in Laos and equity accounted investment Arauco Florestal Arapoti S.A. in Brazil value of EUR 1 805 (EUR 1 451) million, of which Stora Enso’s share was EUR 740 (EUR 595) million. 5 Biological asset fair value, excluding land values. The corresponding forest land value was EUR 548 million at end 2019. The increase in fair value is mainly due to increased harvesting volume and long term sales prices. Governance 6 Non-productive natural forest area is not included to Veracel’s total area standing stock Growing costs had a slight reducing impact on the fair value. Stora Enso’s 41% share of the productive forest land in Tornator totals 262 (223) thousand hectares with a share of standing stock of 25.1 (24.6) million m3 sub. The ownership share of annual harvesting is on average 1.0 (1.2) million m3 sub. 46 Stora Enso 2019: Financials – Notes to the Consolidated financial statements – Note 13 Strategy • Arauco Florestal Arapoti S.A., the 20% owned Southern Brazilian associated company, had Group share of equity accounted investments income statements Annual Report 2019 biological assets with a fair value of EUR 67 (EUR 73) million, of which Stora Enso’s share was Year Ended 31 December EUR 14 (EUR 14) million. EUR million 2019 2018 • The Group owns 49.79% of shares in Bergvik Skog AB which continue to be reported as an equity Sales 170 249 accounted investment, but there are no biological assets to be reported anymore at the end of 2019. Net operating expenses -121 -119 Other operating income1 129 0 Sensitivities of significant assumptions of a +/10% movement IAS 41 valuation 127 90 Wood market prices Growth rate Discount rate Operating Profit 305 220 Guangxi +/-35 +/-19 +/-3 Financials Swedish Forests +/-502 +/-116 +381/-320 Net financial items -55 -37 Net Profit before Tax 249 183 Veracel +/-7 +/-9 +/-2 Income tax -21 -2 Stora Enso in 2019 Montes del Plata +/-21 +/-21 +/-6 Net Profit for the Year 229 181 1 Other operating income relates to Bergvik Skog AB restructuring, see Note 4 Acquisitions and disposals Report of the Board of Directors Note 13 Equity accounted investments Sustainability All the above companies are accounted for using the equity method in the Consolidated financial statements. The average number of personnel in the equity accounted investments was 1637 in 2019, compared Consolidated financial with 1 727 in 2018. statements Accounting principles A summary of the financial information in respect of the Group’s material associates, Bergvik Skog AB and Tornator Oyj, is set out below. The Group’s share of these associated companies is reported under Notes to the Consolidated Consolidation principles the segment Other and covers the majority of the Group’s total share of results of equity accounted Associated companies over which Stora Enso exercises significant influence are accounted for using investments. The summarised financial information below represents amounts shown in the associate’s financial statements the equity method, which involves recognising the Group’s share of the equity accounted investment financial statements prepared in accordance with IFRS. profit or loss for the year in the Consolidated income statement. The Group’s interest in an associated Parent Company Stora Enso company is carried in the Consolidated statement of financial position at an amount that reflects its Bergvik Skog AB Oyj financial statements share of the net assets of the associate. EUR million 2019 2018 The Group’s share of results in equity accounted investments is reported in the operating profit to Current assets 478 152 Notes to the parent company reflect the operational nature of these investments, especially those in wood supply. There is no material Non-current assets 0 4 705 financial statements goodwill in the Statements of financial position for equity accounted investments. Current liabilities 0 157 Signatures for the financial Principal equity accounted investments Non-current liabilities 369 971 statements As at 31 December Tax liabilities 0 955 Financials Proportion of ownership Auditor’s report interest/voting rights held % EUR million Domicile Sales 92 245 and principal Net profit for the year 243 295 Stora Enso in capital markets Reportable place of Other comprehensive income 27 7 Company segment operations 2019 2018 2019 2018 Total comprehensive income 270 302 Stora Enso as a taxpayer Bergvik Skog AB: forest1 Other Sweden 49.79/36.70 49.79/36.70 54 1 400 Tornator Oyj: forest Other Finland 41 41 381 288 Capacities by mill in 2020 Dividends received from the associate during the financial year1 1 434 11 Arauco Florestal Arapoti S.A.: plantation Other Brazil 20 20 19 19 Information for shareholders Others 29 23 Net assets of the associate 109 2 774 Carrying Value Proportion of the Group’s ownership interest in Bergvik Skog AB 49.79% 49.79% at 31 December 483 1 729 Goodwill 0 19 1 The group’s shareholding in Bergvik Skog AB is 49.79%, however, the voting rights are limited to 36.7%. Carrying amount of the Group’s interest in Bergvik Skog AB 54 1 400 1 amount relates to Bergvik Skog AB restructuring, of which EUR 331 million was paid in cash Governance 47 Stora Enso 2019: Financials – Notes to the Consolidated financial statements – Note 13 Strategy On 31 May 2019, Bergvik Väst AB, a subsidiary of Bergvik Skog AB, was distributed as dividends to the Aggregate information of equity accounted investments that are not individually material Annual Report 2019 shareholders of Bergvik Skog AB. On the same date the Group acquired an additional 20% of shares As at 31 December in Bergvik Väst AB from other shareholders resulting in a total holding in Bergvik Väst AB of 69.8%. EUR million 2019 2018 Simultaneously, Bergvik Väst AB was demerged and Stora Enso became the 100% owner of a new PPE1, goodwill and other intangible assets 26 21 subsidiary holding around 69.8% of the former Bergvik Väst AB assets and liabilities. The Group owns Biological assets 13 14 49.79% of shares in Bergvik Skog AB which continue to be reported as an equity accounted investment. Operative receivables: Details on the Bergvik Skog AB restructuring are shown in Note 4 Acquisitions and disposals. Non-current 0 0 Stora Enso’s shareholding in the company was valued at EUR 54 (EUR 1 400) million at the year-end in 2019. In 2019, the Group’s share of Bergvik Skog’s net profit was EUR 121 (EUR 147) million. Current 21 16 Financials Inventories 1 1 Tornator Oyj Cash 5 8 Total Assets 66 61 EUR million 2019 2018 Stora Enso in 2019 Current assets 43 34 Operative Liabilities: Non-current assets 1 918 1 557 Report of the Non-current 1 2 Board of Directors Sustainability Current 12 11 Current liabilities 672 376 Debt: Non-current liabilities 144 351 Consolidated financial Non-current 1 1 Tax liabilities 216 161 statements Current 1 0 Tax liabilities 4 4 Sales 112 113 Notes to the Consolidated Total Liabilities 18 19 Net profit for the year 262 79 financial statements Other comprehensive income -1 0 Net Equity in the Group Statement of Financial Position 48 42 Total comprehensive income 261 79 Parent Company Stora Enso Oyj financial statements Dividends received from the associate during the financial year 14 12 Represented by Capital and Reserves 48 42 Notes to the parent company Net assets of the associate 929 702 OCI 0 0 financial statements Proportion of the Group’s ownership interest in Tornator Oyj 41.00% 41.00% Equity Accounting Value 48 42 Carrying amount of the Group’s interest in Tornator Oyj 381 288 Signatures for the financial Equity Accounting Value for Bergvik Skog AB 54 1 400 statements Equity Accounting Value for Tornator Oyj 381 288 Stora Enso’s Finnish forest holdings were divested into an equity accounted investment, Tornator, in 2002. Total Equity Accounting Value 483 1 729 Financials Auditor’s report The Group’s current 41% ownership is valued at EUR 381 (EUR 288) million at the year-end for 2019. 1 PPE = Property, Plant and Equipment In 2018, the Group’s share of Tornator’s net profit was EUR 107 (EUR 32) million, including a forest valuation Stora Enso in capital markets gain of EUR 128 (gain EUR 13) million. Equity accounted investment company balances Stora Enso as a taxpayer As at 31 December EUR million 2019 2018 Capacities by mill in 2020 Receivables from Equity Accounted Investments Non-current loan receivables 2 2 Information for shareholders Trade receivables 0 6 Liabilities due to Equity Accounted Investments Trade payables 38 39 Equity accounted investment transactions Governance Year Ended 31 December EUR million 2019 2018 Sales to equity accounted investments 28 53 Purchases from equity accounted investments 109 219 48 Stora Enso 2019: Financials – Notes to the Consolidated financial statements – Note 14 Strategy The Group engages in transactions with equity accounted investments such as sales and purchases of wood. PVO shares Annual Report 2019 All agreements are negotiated at arm’s length and are conducted on terms that the Group considers customary The Group holds a 15.6% (15.6%) interest in Pohjolan Voima Oy (PVO), a privately-owned group of in the industry and generally no less favourable than would be available from independent third parties. Equity companies in the energy sector that produces electricity and heat for its shareholders in Finland. Each accounted investment company trade receivables and both sales to equity accounted investments and subsidiary of the PVO group has its own class of shares that entitle the shareholder to the energy produced purchases from equity accounted investments decreased due to Bergvik Skog AB restructuring. in proportion to its ownership of that class of share. The shareholders then have an obligation to cover Total loans including interest receivable to equity accounted investments at the year-end 2019 the costs of production, which are generally lower than market prices. Stora Enso did not receive actual amounted to EUR 2 (EUR 2) million. dividend payments from PVO during 2019. The holding is fair valued quarterly using an average of two methods: the discounted cash flow model and trading multiples. The valuation is categorised at level 3 in the fair value hierarchy according to IFRS 13; levels are explained in Note 25 Fair values. Financials Note 14 Equity instruments The electricity prices in the model are based on Nordpool prices. Liquid future derivative prices are used for the available years in the model and thereafter increased by an inflation factor. The historical financial statements provide the basis for the cost structure for each of the power assets, which are adjusted by the Stora Enso in 2019 Accounting principles inflation factor in future years. The discount rate of 3.18% used in the DCF is determined using the weighted average cost of capital method. The trading multiples are derived from a peer group of European companies Report of the The Group has elected to classify its equity investments in Pohjolan Voima shares and certain listed operating power assets similar to PVO’s. A +/5% change in the electricity price used in the DCF would Board of Directors Sustainability shares held by the Group at fair value through other comprehensive income (FVTOCI) under IFRS 9 by change the valuation by EUR +98 million and EUR -77 million, respectively. A +/1% absolute change in the applying the irrevocable election for equity instruments under the standard due to the long-term nature discount rate would change the valuation by EUR -75 million and EUR +185 million, respectively. Consolidated financial of the ownership. The gains and losses resulting from changes in the fair value of equity investments As an outcome of the arbitration proceedings, a settlement agreement was signed during 2018 between statements under FVTOCI are not recycled to the Income Statement upon impairment or disposal, only the the plant owner Teollisuuden Voima Oyj (TVO) and the plant supplier AREVA-Siemens Consortium concerning dividend income is recognised in the income statement. In addition, the Group also has certain equity the costs and losses caused by the delay of the Olkiluoto 3 project. As a result, the plant supplier agreed to Notes to the Consolidated investments in unlisted shares that are classified as fair value through income statement. compensate EUR 450 million to the plant owner TVO. In December 2019 TVO announced that the project is further delayed, with the regular electricity generation expected to start in March 2021. The updated schedule financial statements Summary of values and the arbitration proceeding outcome have been taken into account in the Q4 2019 valuation. Stora Enso’s indirect share of the capacity of Olkiluoto 3 is approximately 8.9%, through its PVO B2 shares. Parent Company Stora Enso Year Ended 31 December Oyj financial statements EUR million 2019 2018 Acquisition cost at 1 January PVO shareholding at 31 December 2019 Notes to the parent company Listed shares 4 4 EUR million Share Series % Holding Asset Category Fair Value 2019 Fair Value 2018 Unlisted shares 125 126 financial statements PVO-Vesivoima Oy A 20.6 Hydro 221 166 Investments classified as equity instruments 129 130 Teollisuuden Voima Oyj B 15.7 Nuclear 275 243 Signatures for the financial OCI in opening balance 306 209 Nuclear under Equity Instruments at 1 January 435 339 statements Teollisuuden Voima Oyj B2 14.8 construction 22 0 Translation difference 0 -1 Other C,C2,V,M Various Various 4 6 Financials Additions 1 3 Auditor’s report Total 522 415 Change in fair values accounted for as OCI 109 97 Stora Enso in capital markets Disposals -6 -1 Income Statement gains and losses 0 -2 The valuation in 2019 amounted to EUR 522 (EUR 415) million against a cost value of EUR 117 (EUR 118) Stora Enso as a taxpayer Carrying Amount at 31 December 538 435 million, with the revaluation of EUR 405 (EUR 297) million being taken to other comprehensive income. The change in PVO’s value is mainly caused by an increase in electricity market prices and a decrease in the discount rate. No deferred tax is appropriate, as under Finnish tax regulations holdings above 10% are Capacities by mill in 2020 Unrealised gains and losses on listed and unlisted shares exempt from tax on disposal proceeds. Information for shareholders Year Ended 31 December EUR million 2019 2018 Principal equity instruments Net unrealised holding gains (OCI) 415 306 31 December 2019 Cost 123 129 Number of Acquisition EUR million Holding % Shares Cost Fair Value Fair Value 538 435 Packages Ltd, Pakistan listed shares 6.4 5 396 650 3 12 Total Listed Shares 3 12 Net unrealised holding gains (OCI) 415 306 Governance Pohjolan Voima Oy unlisted shares 15.6 5 073 972 117 522 Deferred tax -2 -2 Others unlisted shares 3 3 Net Unrealised Holding Gains Shown in Equity as OCI 413 304 Total Unlisted Shares 120 526 Total Equity instruments at 31 December 2019 123 538 Change in Net Unrealised Holding Gains Shown in Equity as OCI 109 98 Total Equity Instruments at 31 December 2018 129 435 49 Stora Enso 2019: Financials – Notes to the Consolidated financial statements – Note 15 Strategy Note 15 Other non-current assets Note 17 Operative receivables Annual Report 2019 As at 31 December EUR million 2019 2018 Accounting principles Prepaid expenses and accrued income 17 19 Tax credit 5 16 Trade receivables Other non-current operative assets 15 13 Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently at their anticipated realisable Total 37 48 value with an estimate made for loss allowance on expected credit losses based on a forward-looking and objective review of all outstanding amounts at period end. A simplified approach under IFRS 9 Financials has been implemented for trade receivables and loss allowances are recognised based on expected lifetime credit losses in the Consolidated income statement within other operating expenses. For Note 16 Inventories non-defaulted receivables, expected credit losses are estimated based on externally generated Stora Enso in 2019 customer level probability of default data that is used in the forward-looking loss allowance calculation model. The rebuttable presumption that default does not occur later than when a financial asset is 90 Report of the Accounting principles days past due has been applied in the calculation model and a default is normally estimated to occur Board of Directors Sustainability when trade receivables are at least 90 days overdue or there is otherwise objective evidence supporting Inventories are reported at lower of cost and net realisable value with the cost determined by the first-in the conclusion that a default has occurred. Trade receivables are presented in current assets under Consolidated financial first-out (FIFO) method or, alternatively, by the weighted average cost where it approximates FIFO. The Operative receivables in the Consolidated statement of financial position. statements cost of finished goods and work in progress comprises raw material, direct labour, depreciation, other direct costs and related production overheads, but excludes interest expenses. Net realisable value is Trade receivables under factoring arrangements Notes to the Consolidated the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the costs of completion and sale. Stora Enso uses factoring arrangements as one of the working capital management tools. Sold trade Where market conditions result in the manufacturing costs of a product exceeding its net realisable receivables are derecognised once significant related risks and rewards of ownership have been financial statements value, a valuation allowance is made. Valuation allowances are also made for old, slow moving and transferred to the buyer. Outstanding balances for trade receivables that were not yet sold at period end obsolete finished goods and spare parts. Such valuation allowances are deducted from the carrying but qualify to be sold under factoring programs in the next period, are classified as trade receivables fair Parent Company Stora Enso value of the inventories in the consolidated statement of financial position. valued through other comprehensive income in accordance with the business model and contractual Oyj financial statements cash flow characteristics tests under IFRS 9. Please refer to Note 25 Fair values for further details. As at 31 December Notes to the parent company Current operative receivables EUR million 2019 2018 financial statements Materials and supplies 372 438 As at 31 December Work in progress 84 98 EUR million 2019 2018 Signatures for the financial Trade receivables gross carrying amount 1 006 1 172 Finished goods 672 752 statements Spare parts and consumables 317 298 Loss allowance -38 -36 Financials Other inventories 17 17 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 96 96 Auditor’s report Advance payments and cutting rights 53 83 Other receivables 224 254 Obsolescence allowance spare parts and consumables -101 -98 Total 1 289 1 487 Stora Enso in capital markets Obsolescence allowance finished goods -16 -15 Net realisable value allowance -6 -5 Age analysis of trade receivables Stora Enso as a taxpayer Total 1 391 1 567 As at 31 December Capacities by mill in 2020 EUR million 2019 2018 Not overdue 865 1 027 EUR 4 693 (EUR 4 872) million of inventories have been expensed during the year, which are included in Information for shareholders the materials and supplies line and relate to materials. EUR 14 (EUR 16) million of inventory write-downs Less than 30 days overdue 65 77 31 to 60 days overdue 9 7 have been recognised as an expense. EUR 8 (EUR 3) million have been recognised as a reversal of previous 61 to 90 days overdue 2 2 write-downs. 91 to 180 days overdue 3 4 Over 180 days overdue 63 55 Total 1 006 1 172 Governance As at 31 December 2019, a gross amount of EUR 142 (EUR 145) million of trade receivables were overdue. These relate to a number of countries and unrelated customers that have no recent history of default. At 31 December 2019, lifetime expected credit losses for trade receivables amounted to EUR 38 (EUR 36) million. Loss allowances for trade receivables are estimated on an individual basis based on a forward-looking 50 Stora Enso 2019: Financials – Notes to the Consolidated financial statements – Note 18 Strategy model where estimated probabilities of customer default are used in the calculation model. If the Group has At 31 December 2019, Directors and Group Leadership Team members owned 1 150 (1 150) A shares Annual Report 2019 concerns regarding the financial status of a customer, an advance payment or an irrevocable letter of credit and 478 403 (558 028) R shares representing 0.02% of the total voting rights of the company. Full details of drawn from a bank is required. At the year end, the letters of credit awaiting maturity totalled EUR 33 (EUR 62) Director and Executive interests are shown in Note 7 Board and executive remuneration. A full description million. Please refer to Note 24 Financial risk management for details of customer credit risk management. of company share award programmes is shown in Note 21 Employee variable compensation and equity incentive schemes. However, none of these have any impact on the issued share capital. Age analysis of loss allowance As at 31 December Change in share capital and number of shares EUR million 2019 2018 A shares R shares Total At 1 January 2018 176 392 320 612 227 667 788 619 987 Financials Not overdue and less than 90 days overdue More than 90 days overdue 1 37 3 33 Conversion of A shares to R shares -79 648 79 648 — Total 38 36 At 31 December 2018 176 312 672 612 307 315 788 619 987 Stora Enso in 2019 Conversion of A shares to R shares -55 838 55 838 — At 31 December 2019 176 256 834 612 363 153 788 619 987 Reconciliation of loss allowance Report of the As at 31 December Board of Directors Number of votes as at 31 December 20191 176 256 834 61 236 315 237 493 149 Sustainability EUR million 2019 2018 Opening balance at 1 January 36 28 Consolidated financial Adoption of IFRS 9 standard 0 3 Share Capital at 31 December 2019, EUR million 300 1 042 1 342 statements Change in loss allowance booked through Income Statement 9 8 Share Capital at 31 December 2018, EUR million 300 1 042 1 342 Write-downs -6 -3 Notes to the Consolidated Other 0 0 1 R share votes are calculated by dividing the number of R shares by 10. The issued shares by 9 March 2020 will represent the total shares eligible to vote at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting. financial statements Closing Balance at 31 December 38 36 Parent Company Stora Enso The actual credit losses during 2019 amounted to EUR 6 (EUR 3) million of trade receivables being writtenNote 19 Non-controlling interests Oyj financial statements off from the Group’s balance sheet. Stora Enso has entered into factoring agreements to sell trade receivables in order to accelerate cash Notes to the parent company conversion. These agreements resulted in full derecognition of trade receivables amounting to a nominal value of Accounting principles financial statements EUR 255 (EUR 240) million at the end of the year. The continuing involvement of Stora Enso in the sold receivables was estimated as being insignificant due to the non-recourse nature of the factoring arrangements involved. Non-controlling interests are presented within the equity of the Group in the Consolidated statement Signatures for the financial of financial position. The proportionate shares of profit or loss attributable to non-controlling interests statements and to equity holders of the parent company are presented in the Consolidated income statement after Note 18 Shareholders’ equity the profit for the period. Transactions between non-controlling interests and Group shareholders are Financials Auditor’s report transactions within equity and are thus shown in the Statement of changes in equity. The measurement type of non-controlling interests is decided separately for each acquisition. Stora Enso in capital markets Accounting principles Non-controlling interests Stora Enso as a taxpayer Dividend and capital repayments Year Ended 31 December Any dividend or capital repayment proposed by the Board is not deducted from distributable EUR million 2019 2018 shareholders’ equity until approved by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting. Capacities by mill in 2020 At 1 January 18 47 Acquisitions -7 -2 At 31 December 2019, shareholders’ equity amounted to EUR 7 429 (EUR 6 714) million, compared to Information for shareholders the market capitalisation on Nasdaq Helsinki of EUR 10 328 (EUR 8 123) million. The market values of the Disposals 8 -1 NCI buy-out 0 2 shares were EUR 13.55 (EUR 11.05) for A shares and EUR 12.97 (EUR 10.09) for R shares. The A shares entitle the holder to one vote per share, whereas R shares entitle the holder to one vote Share of profit for the period -24 -24 per ten shares with a minimum of one vote, though the accountable par of both shares is the same. Share of other comprehensive income 0 -2 A shares may be converted into R shares at any time at the request of a shareholder. At 31 December 2019, Dividends -1 -2 the company’s fully paid-up share capital, as entered in the Finnish Trade Register, was EUR 1 342 million At 31 December -7 18 (EUR 1 342 million). The current accountable par of each issued share is EUR 1.70 (EUR 1.70). Governance 51 Stora Enso 2019: Financials – Notes to the Consolidated financial statements – Note 18 Strategy Principal non-controlling interests In 2019 non-controlling interest in Stora Enso decreased by EUR 24 million mostly due to negative result Annual Report 2019 in Stora Enso Pulp and Paper Asia AB Group. Net loss in Stora Enso Pulp and Paper Asia AB Group was As at 31 December 2019 2019 2018 EUR 111 (EUR 128) million. Proportion of Summarised financial information in respect of the subsidiaries that have material non-controlling Ownership Interests interests is set out below. Principal Place Held by Non-controlling Company of Business Interests, % EUR million Stora Enso Pulp and Paper Asia AB Group Sweden Stora Enso Pulp and Paper Asia AB Group1 and China See separate table below -9 11 EUR million 2019 2018 Assets 1 268 1 127 Financials Stora Enso Inpac Packaging Group2 Stora Enso Huatai Paper Co Ltd3 China China 0.00 0.00 0 0 8 -7 Others 2 5 Shareholders’ equity attributable to the owners of the parent -74 18 Stora Enso in 2019 -7 18 Non-controlling interests1 -9 11 Total Equity -82 29 1 Consist of non-controlling interests in Guangxi Integrated Project and Operations Report of the 2 In September 2019, Stora Enso bought out non-controlling interests in Stora Enso China Packaging. Stora Enso previously owned Board of Directors 90% of the parent company of the China Packaging Group and with the purchase, the Group’s ownership increased to 100%. Liabilities 1 350 1 097 Sustainability 3 In October 2019, Stora Enso divested its 60% shareholding in Stora Enso Huatai Paper Co Ltd, which operated the Dawang paper mill in China. Consolidated financial Net loss for the year -111 -128 statements Non-controlling interests in Stora Enso Pulp and Paper Asia AB Group 31 December 2019 31 December 2018 Attributable to: Notes to the Consolidated Principal Place Direct-% Indirect-% Total-% of Direct-% Indirect-% Total-% of Owners of the parent -91 -104 financial statements Company of Business of NCI of NCI NCI of NCI of NCI NCI Non-controlling interests -20 -24 Stora Enso Pulp and Sweden Net Loss for the Year -111 -128 Paper Asia AB and China 5.79 0.00 5.79 5.79 0.00 5.79 Parent Company Stora Enso Guangxi Stora Enso Oyj financial statements Forestry Co Ltd China 5.00 5.50 10.50 5.00 5.50 10.50 Net cash outflow from operating activities -15 -28 Stora Enso (Guangxi) Net cash outflow from investing activities -32 -61 Notes to the parent company Packaging Company Ltd China 15.00 4.92 19.92 15.00 4.92 19.92 Stora Enso (Guangxi) Net cash inflow from financing activities 13 62 financial statements Forestry Company Ltd China 15.00 4.92 19.92 15.00 4.92 19.92 Net Cash Outflow/Inflow -34 -27 1 No dividends were paid to non-controlling interests in 2019 or 2018. Signatures for the financial statements Financials Auditor’s report Stora Enso in capital markets Stora Enso as a taxpayer Capacities by mill in 2020 Information for shareholders Governance 52 Stora Enso 2019: Financials – Notes to the Consolidated financial statements – Note 20 Strategy Note 20 Post-employment benefits The Group policy for funding deficits is intended to satisfy local statutory funding requirements for tax Annual Report 2019 deductible contributions together with adjusting the discount factors used in the actuarial calculations for market rates. However, the emphasis of the Group is to provide defined contribution schemes for its Accounting principles post-employment benefits, thus all aspects of the provision and accounting for defined benefit schemes are evaluated. The net liability in the Group statement of financial position reflects the actual deficits in the Employee benefits defined benefit plans. Details of the pension arrangements, assets and investment policies in the Group’s The Group operates a number of defined benefit and contribution plans throughout the world, the assets main operating countries are shown below. of which are generally held in separate trustee administered funds. Such pension and post-retirement plans are generally funded by payments from employees and by the relevant group companies, taking into Finland Financials account the recommendations of independent qualified actuaries. Employer contributions to the defined The Group funds its Finnish pension obligations mainly through defined contribution schemes, the charge contribution pension plans are charged to the Consolidated income statement in the year they relate to. in the income statement being EUR 69 (EUR 73) million. By contrast, the remaining obligations covered by For defined benefit plans, accounting values are assessed using the projected unit credit method. defined benefit schemes resulted in a charge of EUR 0 (EUR 1) million excluding finance costs. Pension Stora Enso in 2019 Under this method, the cost of providing pensions is charged to the consolidated income statement to cover since 2001 has been organised entirely through local insurance companies. As state pensions in spread the regular cost over the service lives of employees in accordance with the advice of qualified Finland provide by far the greatest proportion of pensions, Group liabilities are proportionately much Report of the actuaries who carry out a full valuation of the plan every year in all major pension countries. The pension smaller than in comparable countries. Board of Directors Sustainability obligation is measured as the present value of the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates Plan assets in Finland are managed by insurance companies. Details of the exact structure and of highly rated corporate bonds or government securities, as appropriate, that match the currency and investment strategy surrounding plan assets are not available to participating employers, as the assets Consolidated financial expected duration of the related liability. actually belong to the insurance companies themselves. The assets are managed in accordance with EU statements The Group immediately recognises all actuarial gains and losses arising from defined benefit plans regulations, and also national requirements, under which there is an obligation to pay guaranteed benefits directly in equity, as disclosed in its consolidated statement of comprehensive income. Past service irrespective of market conditions. Notes to the Consolidated costs are identified at the time of any amendments to the plans and are recognised immediately in financial statements the consolidated income statement regardless of vesting requirements. In the Group’s consolidated Germany statement of financial position, the full liability for all plan deficits is recorded. German pension costs amounted to EUR 9 (EUR 8) million, of which EUR 8 (EUR 7) million related to defined contribution schemes and EUR 1 (EUR 1) million to defined benefits excluding finance costs. The Parent Company Stora Enso The Group has established a number of pension and other benefit plans for its operations throughout the net liability increased from EUR 238 million to EUR 259 million. The increase in net liability arose mainly Oyj financial statements world, the cost amounted to EUR 166 (EUR 170) million in 2019, as shown in Note 6 Personnel expenses. The from an decrease in the discount rate and changes in experience. Defined benefit pension plans are mainly majority of the plans are defined contribution schemes and the charge amounted to EUR 156 (EUR 160) million. accounted for in the statement of financial position through book reserves with some minor plans using Notes to the parent company In accordance with their respective pension arrangements, Group Leadership Team members may retire at insurance companies or independent trustees. Retirement benefits are based on years worked and salaries financial statements 65 years of age with pensions consistent with local practices in their respective home countries. The retirement received during the pensionable service and the commencement of pension payments are linked to the age for other management teams in companies in the Stora Enso Group follows local law and practices, though national pension scheme’s retirement age. Pensions are paid directly by the companies themselves to Signatures for the financial some management team members have older agreements with the right to retire earlier, between 60 and 65 their former employees, the security for the pensioners is provided by the legal requirement that the book statements years. The retirement age for other staff either follows national retirement ages or is determined by local labour reserves held in the statement of financial position are insured up to certain limits. agreements. In the latter case, there may be certain pre-retirement liabilities accruing to the company to cover Financials Auditor’s report the income of the early retirees between the age at which they ceased working and the national retirement age. Sweden Stora Enso’s total defined benefit obligations for current and former members of staff amount to In Sweden, most blue-collar workers are covered by defined contribution schemes, the charge in the Stora Enso in capital markets EUR 1 219 (EUR 1 115) million, though assets of EUR 761 (EUR 714) million have been put aside in various Income statement being EUR 55 (EUR 56) million. Defined benefit schemes are covering mainly white-collar pension schemes to cover these liabilities. The net funding position of the defined benefit plans is shown in full staff and resulted in a charge of EUR 8 (EUR 7) million excluding finance costs. Stora Enso as a taxpayer in the statement of financial position and amounted to EUR 458 million in 2019, an increase of EUR 57 million Total defined benefit obligations amounted to EUR 411 (EUR 370) million and the assets totalled on the previous year’s liability of EUR 401 million. This increase is mainly caused by the actuarial losses which EUR 284 (EUR 278) million, leaving a net liability of EUR 127 million at the year end, compared with a net result from the change in financial assumptions regarding present value of the defined benefit obligations. liability of EUR 92 million the year before. This increase in net liability arose from a decrease in the discount Capacities by mill in 2020 Interest costs are entered under financial costs. The 2019 defined benefit expense in the income statement rate and changes in financial assumptions and experience. Stora Enso has undertaken to pay all local legal amounts to EUR 17 million and the actuarial losses recorded in other comprehensive income amount to pension liabilities for the main ITP scheme to the foundation, thus the remaining liability relates to other Information for shareholders EUR 77 million. The 2018 defined benefit expense in the income statement amounted to EUR 16 million and small schemes. the actuarial gains recorded in other comprehensive income amounted to EUR 24 million. The long-term investment return target for the foundation is a 3% real return after tax. Stora Enso’s Swedish pension fund conducts an annual asset/liability study to optimise its risk parameters. Actuarial gains/losses recognised directly in equity Year ended 31 December Other countries Total operations Obligations and assets in the remaining countries were material only in the United Kingdom, at EUR 146 (EUR 132) million and EUR 136 (EUR 121) million, respectively, leaving a net liability of EUR 10 (EUR 11) Governance EUR million 2019 2018 Actuarial gains/losses -77 -24 million at the end of 2019. This reduction in net liability arose from changes in actuarial assumptions. Deferred tax thereon 6 4 Total -71 -20 53 Stora Enso 2019: Financials – Notes to the Consolidated financial statements – Note 20 Strategy Group Amounts recognised in the income statement Annual Report 2019 Year ended 31 December Net defined benefit obligation reconciliation Total defined Defined benefit Other postYear ended 31 December benefit plans pension plans employment benefits EUR million 2019 2018 EUR million 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Present value of defined benefit obligation Operating costs Defined benefit obligation at 1 January 1 115 1 139 Current service cost 11 11 10 10 1 1 Translation difference 0 -15 Past service cost -1 -1 2 -1 -3 0 Financials Interest on liabilities Current service cost 20 11 21 11 Finance cost Net interest on net defined benefit liability 7 6 6 6 1 0 Past service cost -1 -2 Cost recognised in Income Statement 17 16 18 15 -1 1 Stora Enso in 2019 Actuarial gains and losses on defined benefit obligation arising from changes in demographic assumptions -22 -3 Statement of actuarial gains and losses Report of the Actuarial gains and losses on defined benefit obligation arising from Year ended 31 December changes in financial assumptions 118 27 Board of Directors Sustainability Actuarial gains and losses on defined benefit obligation arising from EUR million 2019 2018 experience adjustments 38 2 Gain/loss on pension scheme assets 57 1 Consolidated financial Benefit payments -58 -61 Gain/loss arising on pension scheme liabilities -134 -25 statements Net disposals/acquisitions -6 -1 Total gain/loss -77 -24 Other 3 -2 Notes to the Consolidated Defined benefit obligation at 31 December 1 219 1 115 Defined benefit plans: Country assumptions used in calculating benefit obligations financial statements Fair value of plan asset Year ended 31 December Fair value of plan asset at 1 January -714 -762 Parent Company Stora Enso Finland Germany Sweden Translation difference -1 13 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Oyj financial statements Expected return on plan assets -13 -15 Discount rate % 0.4 1.2 0.8 1.6 1.5 2.3 Actuarial gain/loss on plan assets -57 -1 Notes to the parent company Future salary increase % 2.2 2.7 2.5 2.5 2.9 2.9 Employer contributions -23 3 Future pension increase % 1.3 1.8 1.8 1.8 2.0 2.0 financial statements Benefit payments 48 45 Average current retirement age 64.0 64.0 65.0 63.0 65.0 65.0 Net disposals/acquisitions 2 0 Weighted average life expectancy 87.0 87.0 85.0 87.0 88.4 89.3 Signatures for the financial Other -3 3 Duration of pension plans 10.0 10.0 13.8 12.6 17.4 16.0 statements Fair value of plan asset at 31 December -761 -714 Financials Auditor’s report Sensitivity of the defined benefit pension obligation Net defined benefit obligation 458 401 Impact on defined benefit obligation Stora Enso in capital markets Change in assumption Increase in assumption Decrease in assumption Amounts recognised on the statement of financial position – defined benefit plans Discount rate 0.50% Decrease by 7.3% Increase by 8.0% Stora Enso as a taxpayer As at 31 December Salary growth rate 0.50% Increase by 1.9% Decrease by 1.8% Total defined Defined benefit Other postPension growth rate 0.50% Increase by 5.8% Decrease by 5.3% benefit plans pension plans employment benefits Capacities by mill in 2020 EUR million 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Increase by 1 year in assumption Decrease by 1 year in assumption Information for shareholders Present value of funded obligations 922 841 922 841 0 0 Life expectancy Increase by 4.7% Decrease by 4.6% Present value of unfunded obligations 298 274 271 249 27 25 Defined benefit obligations (DBO) 1 219 1 115 1 193 1 090 27 25 Fair value of plan assets 761 714 761 714 0 0 Interest rate risk: The obligations are assessed using market rates of high-quality corporate or government bonds to discount the obligations and are therefore subject to any volatility in the movement of the market Net liability in defined benefit plans 458 401 432 376 27 25 rate. The net interest income or expense recognised in profit and loss are also calculated using the market rate of interest. Mortality risk: In the event that members live longer than assumed, the obligations may be understated Governance originally and a deficit may emerge if funding has not adequately provided for the increased life expectancy. 54 Stora Enso 2019: Financials – Notes to the Consolidated financial statements – Note 21 Strategy Defined benefit plan summary by country as at 31 December 2019 Note 21 Employee variable compensation Annual Report 2019 and equity incentive schemes 31 December 2019 EUR million Finland Germany Sweden Other Total Present value of funded obligations 286 16 389 230 922 Accounting principles Present value of unfunded obligations 0 246 22 29 298 Defined benefit obligations (DBO) 286 263 411 259 1 219 Share awards Fair value of plan assets -264 -4 -284 -209 -761 The costs of all employee-related share-based payments are charged to the consolidated income Net liability in the defined benefit plans 22 259 127 50 458 statement as personnel expenses over the vesting period. The share programmes may be hedged using Financials Net liability in the Balance Sheet 22 259 127 50 458 Total Return Swaps (TRS) which are settled with cash payments, allowing the company to receive cash compensation to partially offset any change in the share price between the grant and settlement dates. Represented by Group TRS instruments do not qualify for hedge accounting and therefore periodic changes to their fair Stora Enso in 2019 Defined benefit pension plans 22 259 127 24 432 value are recorded in the Income statement in operative costs alongside the share-based programme Other post-employment benefits 0 0 0 27 27 costs to which they relate. Report of the Net liability in the Balance Sheet 22 259 127 50 458 As a result of the IFRS 2 amendment; Classification and Measurement of Share-based Payment Board of Directors Sustainability Transactions, effective from 1 January 2018, all share-based payment transactions are classified as Defined benefit plan summary by country as at 31 December 2018 equity-settled share awards. Please refer to the Note 1 Accounting principles for further details. The Consolidated financial 31 December 2018 equity-settled share awards (net of tax), are measured at the fair value of the equity instruments on statements EUR million Finland Germany Sweden Other Total the grant date, and are adjusted for the present value of expected dividends. The fair value of the Present value of funded obligations 302 20 349 170 841 equity-settled share-based payments determined on the grant date is expensed on a straight-line Notes to the Consolidated basis over the vesting period, based on the estimate of equity instruments that will eventually vest, with Present value of unfunded obligations 0 225 21 28 274 a corresponding increase in equity. financial statements Defined benefit obligations (DBO) 302 245 370 198 1 115 Fair value of plan assets 278 7 278 151 714 Short term incentive (STI) programmes Parent Company Stora Enso Net liability in the defined benefit plans 25 238 92 46 401 Salaries for senior management are negotiated individually. Stora Enso has incentive plans that take into Oyj financial statements Net liability in the Balance Sheet 25 238 92 46 401 account the performance, development and results of both business units and individual employees. This performance-based variable compensation system is based on profitability as well as on attaining key Notes to the parent company Represented by business targets. financial statements Defined benefit pension plans 25 238 92 21 376 Group Executives, as well as division and business unit management have STI programmes in which the Other post-employment benefits 25 25 payment is calculated as a percentage of the annual base salary with a maximum level ranging from 8% to Signatures for the financial Net liability in the Balance Sheet 25 238 92 46 401 75%. Non-management employees participate in an STI programme with a maximum incentive level of 7%. statements All incentives are discretionary. These performance-based programmes cover most employees globally, Plan assets where allowed by local practice and regulations. For the performance years 2018 and 2019, the annual Financials Auditor’s report As at 31 December incentive programmes were based on financial targets as well as individually set key targets. The financial 2019 2018 success metrics in the STI programme are: Operational EBITDA and Operative Working Capital to sales. Stora Enso in capital markets EUR million Value % Value % Equity 255 33.5 237 33.2 Long term incentive (LTI) programmes Stora Enso as a taxpayer Since 2005, new share based programmes for executives have been launched every year. The 2016 Government bonds 21 2.7 49 6.8 programme that vested in 2019 as well as the current outstanding programmes including the programme Corporate bonds 163 21.5 199 27.9 that was launched during 2019 have three year targets and vest in one portion after three years. Capacities by mill in 2020 Debt 184 24.2 248 34.7 Three quarters (75%) of the opportunity under the 2016 to 2017 programmes are in performance Property 64 8.5 71 10.0 shares, where shares will vest in accordance with performance criteria proposed by the Remuneration Information for shareholders Cash 50 6.6 39 5.4 Committee and approved by the Board of Directors. The financial success metric is 3-year Economic Value Others 207 27.3 119 16.7 Added (EVA) for the Stora Enso Group. One quarter (25%) of the opportunity under the programmes are in Total pension fund assets 761 100.0 714 100.0 Restricted Shares, for which vesting is only subject to continued employment. Plan assets do not include any real estate or other assets occupied by the group or the Company’s own financial instruments. Since 2018, all (100%) of the opportunity for members of the GLT has been awarded in performance The breakdown of Finnish pension assets EUR 264 (278) million is not disclosed separately as actual asset allocations can only be shares. The financial success metrics in the 2019 performance share plan is 3-year Economic Value estimated based on known target values published by the insurance companies concerned. Added (EVA) and Earnings Per Share (EPS) for the Stora Enso Group. Others than the GLT were granted three quarters (75%) of the opportunity in performance shares and one quarter (25%) of the opportunity in Governance The two main financial factors affecting group pension liabilities are changes in interest rates and inflation restricted shares, as in previous years. expectations, so the aim of asset investment allocations is to neutralise these effects and maximise returns. Outstanding restricted and performance share opportunities before taxes are shown in the table below. In 2020, contributions of EUR 22 million are expected to be paid. The total number of shares actually transferred will be less than that shown below because a portion of In 2019, reimbursements of EUR 23 (EUR 3) million were paid. shares corresponding to employees’ tax obligation will be withheld to cover income tax. 55 Stora Enso 2019: Financials – Notes to the Consolidated financial statements – Note 22 Strategy Share awards at 31 December 2019 Other provisions Annual Report 2019 Estimated delivery of outstanding restricted and performance share awards at year Other Total end EUR million Environmental Restructuring obligatory provisions Number of shares 2020 2021 2022 Total Carrying Value at 1 January 2018 108 17 9 134 2017 programme 1 050 559 1 050 559 Translation difference -3 0 -1 -3 2018 programme 816 745 816 745 Charge in Income Statement 2019 programme 978 543 978 543 New provisions 3 2 1 6 Total 1 050 559 816 745 978 543 2 845 847 Increase in existing provisions 1 0 3 4 Financials The costs of the Stora Enso share-based programmes are recognised as costs over the vesting period, Reversal of existing provisions Payments -3 -7 -1 -10 -1 -2 -5 -19 which is the period between the grant and vesting. The total impact of share-based programmes in the Carrying Value at 31 December 2018 99 8 10 117 Income statement amounted to an expense of EUR 3 (EUR 7) million, all of which were related to restricted Stora Enso in 2019 and performance share awards. There were no Total Return Swaps (TRS) in use at the end of 2019. Translation difference -1 0 0 -1 Acquisitions 0 0 18 18 Report of the Charge in Income Statement Board of Directors Note 22 Other provisions New provisions 7 40 5 51 Sustainability Increase in existing provisions 6 0 1 8 Consolidated financial Reversal of existing provisions -1 -2 -1 -4 statements Accounting principles Payments -12 -5 -7 -24 At 31 December 2019 97 41 26 165 Notes to the Consolidated Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of financial statements Allocation between current past events, and it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation, and and non-current liabilities a reliable estimate of the amount of the obligation can be made. Provisions for dismantling, removal or Parent Company Stora Enso site restoration are measured at the management’s best estimate. The expenditure required to settle the Current liabilities: Payable within 12 months 6 33 16 55 Oyj financial statements obligation is added to the carrying amount of the assets at acquisition date and depreciated over the Non-current liabilities: Payable after 12 months 91 8 10 110 useful life of the asset. Provisions are discounted back to their current net present value if the effect of Total at 31 December 2019 97 41 26 165 Notes to the parent company the time value of money is material. As provisions are based on management’s best estimate, there is financial statements some uncertainty regarding the timing and amount of the costs. Environmental obligation Signatures for the financial Environmental obligations Provisions for environmental remediation amounted to EUR 97 million at 31 December 2019, which was statements Environmental expenditures resulting from the remediation of an existing condition caused by past a net decrease of EUR 2 million compared with 31 December 2018. operations, and which do not contribute to current or future revenues, are expensed as incurred. Details of the principal provisions are: Financials Auditor’s report Environmental liabilities are recorded when it is probable, based on current interpretations of • Following an agreement between Stora Enso and the City of Falun, the Group is obliged to purify runoff environmental laws and regulations, that a present obligation has arisen and the amount of such liability from the Kopparberg mine before releasing the water into the environment. The provision at year end Stora Enso in capital markets can be reliably estimated. amounted to EUR 37 (EUR 39) million. • The total environmental provision in Finland amounted to EUR 21 (EUR 24) million. The largest provision Stora Enso as a taxpayer Restructuring obligations relates to the dismantling provision of EUR 16 (EUR 13) million for a closed operation at Oulu Mill. A restructuring provision is recognised in the period in which the Group becomes legally or • The Skoghall Mill site contains ground pollutants that must be removed. The provision for this at year constructively committed to the plan. The relevant costs are those that are incremental to, or incurred end amounted to EUR 15 (EUR 15) million. Capacities by mill in 2020 as a direct result of, the exit plan, or are the result of a continuing contractual obligation with no ongoing • Hylte Mill and the Hylte Commune have a contract on the restoration and leakage water handling. economic benefit, or represent a penalty incurred to cancel the obligation. This provision amounted to EUR 5 (EUR 6) million. Information for shareholders • Baienfurt Mill real estate in Germany was divested during 2010 and there is a remaining environmental Other obligations obligation related to landfills that were not disposed. This environmental provision amounted to EUR 4 Other obligatory provisions are recognised regarding different legal or constructive obligations as (EUR 5) million. guarantees to customers, ongoing lawsuits, claims, or similar. Restructuring provisions The Group has undergone major restructuring in recent years, from divestments to mill closures and administrative cost-saving programmes. The liability at the end of 2019 for restructuring provisions Governance amounted to EUR 41 (EUR 8) million and covered the costs of closing down operations, demolition, clearance and redundancy costs for reducing staff numbers. The net increase of the provision was due to new restructuring programmes mainly in the Paper division that are part of Group’s profit protection 56 Stora Enso 2019: Financials – Notes to the Consolidated financial statements – Note 23 Strategy programme. The total cash payments made during the year in respect of established restructuring Interest rate risk Annual Report 2019 provisions amounted to EUR 5 (EUR 10) million. The Group is exposed to an interest rate risk that is the risk of fluctuating interest rates affecting the interest In May 2019 Stora Enso announced a plan to convert the Oulu paper into packaging board mill. The expense of the Group and value of its assets and liabilities. Stora Enso is exposed to the interest rate risk plan includes converting paper machine 7 into kraftliner production and closing down paper machine 6 and through interest-bearing assets and liabilities, such as loans, financial instruments and lease liabilities, the sheeting plant. Provision of the conversion related restructuring amounts to EUR 19 million. but also through commercial agreements and operative assets and liabilities such as biological assets. The Group’s aim is to keep interest costs stable. The Group’s aggregate duration should not exceed Other obligatory provisions the average loan maturity, but should aim towards a longer duration. A duration above the average loan Other obligatory provisions amounted to EUR 26 million at 31 December 2019, which is an increase of maturity is approved by the Board of Directors. EUR 16 million compared with 31 December 2018. The net increase is mainly due to replanting provision The Group may use interest-rate swaps and cross-currency swaps to manage the interest-rate risk by Financials from the acquired balances as part of the Bergvik Skog restructuring. synthetically converting floating-rate loans into fixed-rate loans through the use of derivatives. The Group’s Stora Enso is legally obligated to take care of reforestation in the Swedish long rotation forests after final floating and fixed rate interest-rate position as per the year-end was as shown in the following table: harvesting. Provisions for replanting amounted to EUR 15 million. The provision is related to replanting of Stora Enso in 2019 already harvested areas and is not part of the fair valuation of biological assets. Floating and fixed interest-rate position As at 31 December 2019 As at 31 December 2018 Report of the EUR million Floating rate Fixed rate Floating rate Fixed rate Board of Directors Note 23 Operative liabilities Sustainability Non-current interest-bearing receivables 0 74 1 54 Current interest-bearing receivables 0 0 1 0 Consolidated financial Non-current operative liabilities Cash and cash equivalents 876 0 1 130 0 statements As at 31 December Interest-bearing liabilities1 -1 509 -2 603 -1 118 -2 118 EUR million 2019 2018 Interest-bearing assets and liabilities Notes to the Consolidated Post-employment benefit provisions 458 401 excluding derivatives -633 -2 530 14 -2 065 financial statements Other provisions 110 101 Interest-rate and cross-currency swaps 810 -810 384 -384 Share-based payments 2 2 Interest-bearing assets and liabilities, Parent Company Stora Enso Other payables 37 32 net of derivatives 177 -3 339 398 -2 449 Oyj financial statements Total 607 536 1 Excluding derivative liabilities and interest payable The average interest reset period for the Group’s net interest-bearing liabilities, including all interest rate Notes to the parent company Current operative liabilities derivatives but excluding cash and cash equivalents, is some 4.2 (4.9) years. financial statements As at 31 December As of 31 December 2019, one percentage point parallel change up or down in interest rates would EUR million 2019 2018 impact annual net interest expenses by approximately EUR 5 (EUR 4) million, assuming that the duration Signatures for the financial Trade payables 1 332 1 382 and the funding structure of the Group remain constant throughout the year. This simulation calculates the statements Payroll and staff-related accruals 242 245 interest effect of a 100 basis point parallel shift in interest rates on all floating rate instruments excluding cash and cash equivalents from their next reset date to the end of the year. In addition, all short-term loans Financials Accrued liabilities and deferred income 194 217 Auditor’s report maturing during the year are assumed to be rolled over on maturity to year end using the new higher or Current portion of provisions 55 16 lower interest rate. Advances received 20 22 A one percentage point parallel change up or down in interest rates would also result in fair valuation Stora Enso in capital markets Other payables 67 94 gains or losses of EUR 31 (EUR 20) million before taxes in the cash flow hedge reserve in OCI regarding Total 1 909 1 976 interest rate and cross-currency swaps under cash flow hedge accounting. Note 27 Derivatives Stora Enso as a taxpayer summarises the nominal and fair values of the outstanding interest rate derivative contracts. Capacities by mill in 2020 Note 24 Financial risk management Foreign exchange risk transaction risk The Group operates globally and is exposed to a currency risk arising from exchange rate fluctuations Information for shareholders Risk management principles and process against its reporting currency euro. Foreign exchange transaction exposure comprises both the Stora Enso is exposed to several financial market risks that the Group is managing under the policies geographical location of Stora Enso production facilities around the world, sourcing of raw materials and approved by the Board of Directors. The objective is to ensure cost-effective funding of Group companies sales of end products outside the euro area, mainly denominated in Swedish crowns, US dollars and and manage financial risks effectively. The Stora Enso Group Financial Risk Policy governs all financial British pounds. transactions in Stora Enso. This policy and any future amendments take effect once they are approved by The currency transaction risk is the impact of exchange rate fluctuations on the Group’s Income the Board of Directors and all policies covering the use of financial instruments must comply with it. The statement, which is the effect of currency rates on expected future cash flows and subsequent trade Group’s joint operations companies operate under their own financial risk policies, which may not be fully receivables or payables. The Group’s standard policy to mitigate the risk is to hedge 45–55% of the highly Governance similar to the Group’s policies. probable forecast cash flows in major currencies for the next 12 months by using derivative financial The major financial market risks are detailed below with the main exposures for the Group being interest instruments, such as foreign exchange forwards and currency options. The Group may also hedge periods rate risk, foreign exchange risk, liquidity and refinancing risk, and commodity price risk, especially for fiber, between 12 months and 36 months, or change the above mentioned hedging ratio for the next 12 months pulp, and energy. upon the discretion of the Group’s management. 57 Stora Enso 2019: Financials – Notes to the Consolidated financial statements – Note 24 Strategy For operative receivables and payables in foreign currencies, the objective of the Group is to hedge The calculation includes currency hedges and assumes that no changes other than a single currency Annual Report 2019 50-100% of the outstanding net receivable balance in major currency pairs. exchange rate movement have taken place in the underlying risk exposure. The currency effects are The table below presents the estimated net operative foreign currency exposures for the main based on estimated operative foreign currency flows for the next twelve months, hedging levels at the year currencies for the next 12 months and the related foreign-currency hedges in place as at 31 December, end, and the assumption that the currency cash flow hedging levels, translation exposure in the Income retranslated using year end exchange rates. The net operative receivables and payable exposures, statement and all other variables will remain constant during the next twelve months. Hedging instruments representing the balances as at 31 December, include foreign currency exposures generated by external include foreign exchange forward contracts and foreign exchange options. Indirect currency effects with an and intercompany transactions in line with the requirements of IFRS 7. However, in practice mainly external impact on prices and product flows, such as a product becoming cheaper to produce elsewhere, have not exposures have been hedged through foreign currency hedges. A positive amount of exposure in the table been considered in this calculation. below represents an estimated future inflow or receivable of a foreign currency amount. Financials Estimated currency effects of strengthening of euro Operative foreign currency exposure As at 31 December 2019 As at 31 December 2018 As at 31 December 2019 As at 31 December 2018 EUR million SEK USD GBP BRL CZK CNY SEK USD GBP BRL CZK CNY Stora Enso in 2019 EUR million SEK USD GBP BRL CZK CNY SEK USD GBP BRL CZK CNY Currency change versus EUR -5% -5% -5% -10% -5% -5% -5% -5% -5% -10% -5% -5% Estimated annual net cash Effect on estimated annual Report of the flow exposure in hedged flows1 -894 1 141 300 0 -168 0 -990 1 840 380 0 -190 0 net cash flow and translation Board of Directors Sustainability Cash flow hedges exposure 37 -47 -15 16 7 2 58 -83 -20 12 8 6 for the next 12 months2 557 -600 -136 0 78 0 630 -930 -190 0 90 0 Effect on hedging reserve before Consolidated financial Estimated annual net cash taxes as at year end1 -28 30 7 0 -4 0 -32 47 10 0 -5 0 flow exposure, net of hedges -337 541 164 0 -90 0 -360 910 190 0 -100 0 EBIT impact as at year end2 -1 -3 1 3 1 0 -7 -2 1 2 1 1 statements Hedging percentage as at 31 Estimated annual EBIT impact3 8 -20 -7 19 4 2 19 -38 -9 14 4 7 December for next 12 months 62% 53% 45% 0 46% 0 64% 51% 50% 0 47% 0 Notes to the Consolidated Weighted-average 1 The effect on hedging reserve (other comprehensive income) before taxes at year end is related to the fair value change in derivative contracts qualifying as cash flow hedges of highly probable forecast transactions. financial statements hedged rate against EUR3 10.55 1.17 0.91 0.00 26.19 0.00 10.26 1.22 0.91 0.00 25.92 0.00 2 The Operating Profit impact as at year end represents the estimated currency effect related to net operative receivables or payables, and related hedges. Parent Company Stora Enso Translation exposure 3 The estimated annual Operating Profit impact includes currency effects in respect of operative exposures in the Statement of Financial Position, forecast cash flows and related hedges as well as translation exposure in Income Statement. in Income Statement4 162 -202 6 -158 24 -42 -160 -180 10 -120 30 -110 Oyj financial statements Operative receivables and The following table presents the financial foreign currency exposure and the related hedges in place as Notes to the parent company payables net exposure 1 170 31 -28 -18 -1 40 250 33 -24 -24 -13 at 31 December for the main currencies. Net debt includes foreign-currency external and internal loan financial statements Net receivable currency hedges 24 -110 -43 0 4 0 93 -209 -60 0 0 0 payables, net of loan receivables, cash and cash equivalents and loans designated as net investment Net operative receivables loans under IAS 21. The currency derivatives mainly hedge financial exposures in the statement of financial Signatures for the financial exposure, net of hedges 25 59 -13 -28 -14 -1 133 41 -27 -24 -24 -13 position and from time to time they may also hedge forecast cash flows not qualifying under hedge statements accounting in accordance with IFRS 9. These forecast cash flows are not included in the table below. Estimated annual operative A negative amount of exposure in the table represents a net payable of a foreign currency amount. Financials Auditor’s report exposure, net of hedges -150 399 158 -187 -80 -43 -387 771 173 -144 -94 -123 Additionally, the table includes the estimated effect on the income statement of a strengthening in the 1 In SEK the underlying net cash flow exposure represents EUR denominated transaction risk in Swedish subsidiaries. In CZK, the EUR versus SEK, USD, CNY and PLN by 5%, as reasonably possible changes in rates, measured against Stora Enso in capital markets underlying net cash flow exposure represents EUR, USD, GBP and AUD denominated transaction risk in Czech subsidiaries. year-end closing rates. A corresponding decrease in the exchange rates would have an approximately 2 In 2018, in SEK there were also additional cash flow hedges for months 13-18 (19% of estimated exposure was hedged) that are not included in the table above. equal opposite impact. A negative amount in the table reflects a potential net loss in the Income Stora Enso as a taxpayer 3 The weighted-average exchange rate against EUR is calculated based on bought leg of option collar structure and forward contracts’ statement and, conversely, a positive amount reflects a net potential gain. In practice, the actual foreign forward rate and therefore represents the weighted-average hedged rate based on the least favourable hedged rate from the Group’s currency results may differ from the sensitivity analysis below as the exposure amounts may change point-of-view. during the year. Capacities by mill in 2020 4 Includes unhedged sales, costs and depreciation invoiced or expensed in the domestic currency of non-euro based entities, retranslated using year end exchange rates. Financial foreign currency exposure and estimated currency effects in income statement Information for shareholders As at 31 December 2019 As at 31 December 2018 The following table includes the estimated effect on annual operating profit of a strengthening in EUR EUR million SEK USD CNY PLN SEK USD CNY PLN versus SEK, USD, GBP, CZK and CNY by 5% and versus BRL by 10%, as reasonably possible changes Net debt excluding hedges1 -36 -142 472 100 130 -213 602 112 in rates, measured against year-end closing rates. A corresponding decrease in the exchange rates would Currency hedges 0 -24 -249 -4 -187 -47 -283 -4 have an approximately equal opposite impact. A negative amount in the table reflects a potential net Net financial exposure -36 -166 223 96 -57 -260 319 108 loss in the income statement or equity and, conversely, a positive amount reflects a potential net gain. In practice, the actual foreign currency results may differ from the sensitivity analysis presented below, since Governance the income statements of subsidiaries with functional currencies other than the euro are translated into Currency change versus EUR -5% -5% -5% -5% -5% -5% -5% -5% the Group reporting currency using the average exchange rates for the year, whereas the statements of Effect in the Income Statement 2 8 -11 -5 3 13 -16 -5 the financial position of such subsidiaries, including currency hedges, trade receivables and payable, are 1 The Group has designated certain internal loans to Chinese subsidiaries as net investment loans under IAS 21. The loans are translated using the exchange rates at the reporting date. denominated in EUR, USD and CNY. The underlying foreign currency gain or loss will be posted as part of CTA in Equity. 58 Stora Enso 2019: Financials – Notes to the Consolidated financial statements – Note 24 Strategy Foreign exchange risk translation risk Contractual maturity repayments of financial liabilities, settlement net: 2019 Annual Report 2019 Translation risk results from fluctuations in exchange rates affecting the value of Stora Enso’s net foreign EUR million 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025+ Total currency denominated assets and liabilities. Translation risk is reduced by funding assets, whenever Bond loans 0 287 0 299 287 1 106 1 978 economically possible, in the same currency as the asset itself. The Group may also enter into foreign Loans from credit institutions 295 214 194 401 37 20 1 162 exchange forwards, foreign exchange options or foreign currency denominated loans to hedge its net Lease liabilities 80 67 51 42 34 167 440 investments in foreign entities. Other non-current liabilities 0 5 0 0 0 0 5 The balance sheets of foreign subsidiaries, equity accounted investments and foreign currency Non-current borrowings including current portion 375 573 245 742 358 1 292 3 584 denominated equity instruments in the scope of IFRS 9 are translated into euros using exchange rates prevailing on the reporting date, thus exposing consolidated group equity to fluctuations in currency rates. Less fair value adjustments to carrying amounts 0 0 0 1 1 7 9 Financials The resulting translation differences, along with other movements such as the translation rate difference Estimated contractual finance charges 109 96 85 71 57 355 773 in the income statement, are recorded directly in shareholders’ equity. These cumulative differences Contractual repayments on non-current borrowings 483 670 330 814 416 1 654 4 366 materialise through the Income statement on the disposal, in whole or in part, of the foreign entity. The next Short-term borrowings, carrying amounts 516 0 0 0 0 0 516 Stora Enso in 2019 table shows the translation exposure for geographical areas for which the Group has applied net investment Gross-settled derivative liabilities receipts 1 618 0 0 0 0 0 1 618 hedging techniques to reduce the translation foreign-currency exposure in the consolidated equity. In Gross-settled derivative liabilities payments -1 621 0 0 0 0 0 -1 621 Report of the practise, the Group also incurs material unhedged translation risk exposures in other geographical areas Net-settled derivative liabilities -20 -15 -14 -10 -2 -1 -62 Board of Directors Sustainability such as Sweden and China. The exposures used in the calculations are based on the foreign currency Trade payables 1 331 0 0 0 0 0 1 331 denominated equity and the hedging levels as at 31 December. Full details of actual CTA movements and Bank overdrafts 13 0 0 0 0 0 13 Consolidated financial hedging results are given in Note 28 Cumulative translation adjustment and equity hedging. Estimated contractual finance charges 12 0 0 0 0 0 12 statements Total Contractual Repayments at 31 December 2019 2 333 655 316 804 414 1 653 6 174 Translation risk and hedges: Notes to the Consolidated As at 31 December Contractual maturity repayments of financial liabilities, settlement net: 2018 financial statements EUR million 2019 2018 Translation exposure on equity in USD area1 1 425 1 345 EUR million 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024+ Total Parent Company Stora Enso EUR/USD equity hedges2 -267 -306 Bond loans 220 0 0 0 298 1 005 1 523 Oyj financial statements Translation exposure after hedges 1 157 1 039 Loans from credit institutions 181 213 167 142 399 38 1 140 Sensitivity before hedges EUR strengthening 5% -71 -67 Lease liabilities 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Notes to the parent company Sensitivity after hedges EUR strengthening 5% -58 -52 Financial lease liabilities 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 financial statements 1 Includes the joint operation Montes del Plata in Uruguay, which has USD as its functional currency. Other non-current liabilities 0 4 0 0 0 0 4 2 USD denominated bonds classified as hedges of net investments in foreign assets. Non-current borrowings including current portion 401 217 167 142 697 1 044 2 668 Signatures for the financial Less fair value adjustments to carrying amounts -2 0 0 0 1 7 6 Estimated contractual finance charges 121 81 72 64 52 318 708 statements The above sensitivity analysis includes the effects of currency hedges of net investments in foreign entities and assumes that no changes take place other than a single currency exchange rate movement on Contractual repayments on non-current borrowings 520 298 239 206 750 1 369 3 382 Financials Auditor’s report 31 December each year. Short-term borrowings, carrying amounts 566 0 0 0 0 0 566 Gross-settled derivative liabilities receipts 2 411 71 0 0 0 0 2 482 Stora Enso in capital markets Liquidity and refinancing risk Gross-settled derivative liabilities payments -2 444 -70 0 0 0 0 -2 514 Funding risk arises from the difficulty of obtaining finance for operations at a given point in time. Net-settled derivative liabilities -22 -13 -11 -10 -7 0 -63 Stora Enso as a taxpayer Stora Enso’s funding policy states that the average maturity of outstanding loans and committed credit Trade payables 1 383 0 0 0 0 0 1 383 facilities covering short-term borrowings should be at least four years. The policy further states that the Bank overdrafts 1 0 0 0 0 0 1 Group must have cash equivalents and undrawn committed credit facilities to cover all debt maturing Capacities by mill in 2020 Estimated contractual finance charges 14 0 0 0 0 0 14 within the next 12 months, including supply chain financing and factoring. At 31 December 2019, unused Total Contractual Repayments at 31 December 2018 2 429 286 228 196 743 1 369 5 251 committed credit facilities were at EUR 600 (EUR 600) million. The EUR 600 million committed credit Information for shareholders facility agreement with a syndicate of 13 banks matures in January 2023. The facility is used as a backup for general corporate purposes. In addition, Stora Enso has access to various long-term sources of Financial transactions counterparty credit risk funding up to EUR 950 (EUR 1 000) million. These mainly relate to available funding sources from Finnish Financial counterparty risk is the risk of fluctuations in the value of the Group’s assets as a result of pension funds. counterparties being unable to meet their obligations arising from financial contracts. The exposure to Refinancing risk, or the risk that maturing debt is not refinanced in the markets, is mitigated by a financial counterparty risk is measured as the maximum loss that Stora Enso can suffer directly in the Stora Enso’s target of maintaining an even maturity profile of outstanding debt. The table below shows event of a single counterparty’s credit default. This risk is minimised by: maturity analysis for the Group’s contractual financial liabilities classified under principal headings based • entering into transactions only with leading financial institutions and with industrial companies that have Governance on the remaining period to contractual maturity at the reporting date. Forward interest rates as at the yeara good credit rating; end were used for estimating contractual finance charges. • only investing in liquid funds and deposits with financial institutions or companies that have a minimum credit rating of BBB-. • at least the higher of 50% of cash and cash equivalents, or EUR 150 million, of cash equivalents to be held at counterparties with a minimum rating of Aor equivalent using credit ratings from main rating agencies; 59 Stora Enso 2019: Financials – Notes to the Consolidated financial statements – Note 24 Strategy • investing at least EUR 75 million of the Group’s cash and cash equivalents at counterparties other than A 10% movement in energy and raw material prices would result in a EUR 9 (EUR 13) million change in the Annual Report 2019 the counterparty at which most of Stora Enso’s cash and cash equivalents are held; fair value of energy and raw material hedging contracts described in the above table. The majority of these • equiring parent company guarantees when dealing with any subsidiary of a rated company. fair value changes, after taxes, are recorded directly in Equity under Hedging Reserves, until the contracts mature and the result is entered in the Income statement. These estimates only represent the sensitivity of The Group Financial Risk Policy defines the limits for accepted counterparty risk, based on the tenor of commodity financial instruments to market risk and not the Group’s full exposure to raw material and energy inancial contract and counterparty’s credit rating. price risks as a whole, since the actual underlying purchases are not financial instruments within the scope At the year end in 2019, there were no significant concentrations of risk with respect to counterparties of of the IFRS 7 standard. At the end of 2019, the maturities of the energy and commodity contracts ranged derivative contracts, with the highest counterparty mark-to-market exposure being at EUR 5 (EUR 8) million between 2020 and 2024. In 2018, the maturities ranged between 2019 and 2024. and credit rating of A(A+) using Standard and Poor’s credit rating symbols. In an effort to mitigate other commodity price risk exposures in relation to wood fibre price risk, Financials the Group is a significant owner of forest assets in the Nordic region. In 2019, Stora Enso finalised the Customer credit risk restructuring of Bergvik Skog’s forest holdings in Sweden and increased the Group’s forest holdings in Customer credit risk is Stora Enso’s exposure to contracts arising from deterioration in the financial Sweden to 1.4 million hectares. The forest assets were placed in a fully owned subsidiary and consolidated Stora Enso in 2019 health of its customers. The Group uses various measures to reduce customer credit risks, including, but line-by-line into Stora Enso’s financial statements. The Group’s biological assets are discussed in more not limited to, letters of credit, prepayments and bank guarantees. The Group has also obtained export detail in Note 12 Biological assets. In addition, Stora Enso holds 41.00% share in Tornator Oyj, which is Report of the guarantees, covering both political and commercial risks, which are used in connection with individual a significant forest owner in Finland. The Group’s share in Tornator is reported as an equity-accounted Board of Directors Sustainability customers outside the OECD area. Management considers that no significant concentration of credit investment and discussed in more detail in Note 13 Equity accounted investments. risk with any individual customer, counterparty or geographical region exists for Stora Enso. The aging Consolidated financial information of trade receivables and related loss allowances are given in Note 17 Operative receivables. Equity price risk statements The Group has certain investments in publicly traded securities. Currently these relate to Packages Ltd Commodity price risk shares in Pakistan. The market value of these equity investments was EUR 12 (EUR 13) million at the year Notes to the Consolidated end. Market value changes in these investments are recorded, after taxes, directly under Shareholders’ Outstanding commodity hedges Equity in the Equity instruments through OCI reserve. Detailed discussion regarding the publicly traded financial statements securities can be found from Note 14 Equity instruments. As at 31 December 2019 31 December 2018 Parent Company Stora Enso Nominal Capital risk management Oyj financial statements Underlying Average Nominal Underlying Average amount Stora Enso’s debt structure is focused on capital markets and banks. Group objectives when managing amount of hedged amount amount of hedged hedged Fair value capital are to safeguard the ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for Notes to the parent company commodity commodity hedged in Fair value commodity commodity in EUR EUR shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders, as well as to maintain an optimal capital structure to hedged price EUR million EUR million hedged price million million financial statements Coal reduce the cost of capital. In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may, subject component to shareholder approval as appropriate, vary the dividends paid to shareholders, buy its own shares on Signatures for the financial of natural financial markets, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt. The Group gas 54 000 58 500 statements purchases tonnes USD 58.00 3 — tonnes USD 89.41 5 — strives to pay stable dividends linked to the long-term performance with the aim of distributing 50% of the net income over the cycle. Financials Electricity Auditor’s report purchases The Group monitors its capital on the basis of a target net debt-to-equity ratio of 0.60 or less, and Nordic 1 361 040 1 588 555 ensuring that Net-debt-to-Operational EBITDA ratio remains below 2.0, indicating a solid financial position, Stora Enso in capital markets region MWh EUR 36.99 50 -5 MWh EUR 31.06 49 27 and financial flexibility. Central 315 840 499 752 Stora Enso as a taxpayer Europe MWh EUR 40.04 13 1 MWh EUR 36.16 18 8 Capital structure Oil As at 31 December component Capacities by mill in 2020 of natural EUR million 2019 2018 gas 59 400 65 700 Interest-bearing liabilities 4 192 3 344 purchases barrels USD 62.60 3 — barrels USD 69.33 4 -1 Information for shareholders Interest-bearing assets 983 1 252 Oil 203 504 204 249 Net debt 3 209 2 092 purchases barrels USD 58.92 11 1 barrels USD 56.92 10 -1 Equity attributable to owners of the parent 7 429 6 714 The Group is exposed to commodity and energy price volatility that will have an impact on the Group’s Operational EBITDA1 1 542 1 878 profitability. Electricity hedge derivatives are part of energy price risk management in the Group, whilst Net debt to equity ratio 0.43 0.31 other commodity risks are measured and hedged if economically possible. Currently the Group applies oil Net debt to operational EBITDA 2.08 1.10 and coal risk component hedging for natural gas purchases as described in the table above. In addition to 1 Operational EBITDA definition is included in the Non-IFRS measures chapter in Governance electricity hedge derivatives, the Group also manages energy price risk by entering into long-term physical the Report of the Board of Directors. fixed price purchase agreements, and by holding a 15.6% stake in Pohjolan Voima Oy (PVO), which is a Montes del Plata, a joint operation of Stora Enso, and the Group’s subsidiary Stora Enso (Guangxi) privately owned group of companies in the energy sector in Finland. The fair value of the shares amounted Packaging Company Ltd have complied with financial covenants related to debt-to-assets ratio during to EUR 522 (EUR 415) million as per the year-end. The fair value of these shares is dependent on electricity the reported periods. market prices and discussed in more detail in Note 14 Equity instruments. 60 Stora Enso 2019: Financials – Notes to the Consolidated financial statements – Note 25 Strategy Note 25 Fair values Fair value of financial instruments Annual Report 2019 The fair values of publicly traded derivatives and listed securities, are based on quoted market prices at the reporting date; the fair values of interest rate swaps are calculated as the present value of the Accounting principles estimated future cash flows, and the fair values of foreign exchange forward contracts are determined using forward exchange rates at the reporting date. The valuation principles for derivative financial Financial assets instruments have been described in more detail in Note 27 Derivatives. The Group classifies its financial assets into three categories, which are amortised cost, fair value In assessing the fair values of non-traded derivatives and other financial instruments, the Group through other comprehensive income and fair value through profit and loss. The classification is made uses a variety of methods and makes assumptions based on the market conditions at each reporting according to the IFRS 9 standard and management determines the classification of investments at the date. Quoted market prices or dealer quotes for identical or similar instruments are used for non-current Financials time of the purchase. debt. Other techniques, such as option pricing models and estimated discounted value of future cash With investments in debt instruments, the classification is made based on the business model and flows, are used to determine fair values for the remaining financial instruments. The face values, less any contractual cash flow characteristics of debt instruments. Investments in debt instruments, for which estimated credit adjustments, for financial assets and liabilities with a maturity of less than one year are Stora Enso in 2019 the business model objective is to hold the financial instruments to collect contractual cash flows and assumed to approximate their fair values. The fair values of financial liabilities for disclosure purposes those cash flows are solely payments of principal and interest, are classified as amortised cost and are estimated by discounting the future contractual cash flows at the current market interest rates Report of the presented in current and non-current assets. Investments in debt instruments, for which the business available to the Group for similar financial instruments. Board of Directors Sustainability model objective is to hold the financial instruments for both to collect contractual cash flows and sell Purchases and sales of financial instruments are recognised based on trade date accounting, which financial instruments and the cash flows are solely payments of principal and interest, are classified as is the date on which the Group commits to purchasing or selling the financial instrument. Financial Consolidated financial fair value through other comprehensive income and presented in current and non-current assets. instruments are derecognised when the rights to receive or the cash flows from the financial instruments statements The Group’s investments into equity securities, such as listed and unlisted securities, are classified have expired or have been transferred and the Group has substantially transferred all risks, rewards and as fair value through profit and loss unless the Group has at inception decided to apply the irrevocable obligations of the ownership of the financial asset or liability. Notes to the Consolidated election under IFRS 9 to classify the investments as fair value through other comprehensive income with only dividend income from the investments being recognised in the Income Statement. Fair value hierarchy financial statements Investments that are not measured at amortised cost or at fair value through other comprehensive The Group uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of financial income are classified as fair value through profit and loss and are therefore fair valued through instruments by valuation technique: Parent Company Stora Enso the Consolidated Income Statement and presented in current and non-current assets. • Level 1: quoted (unadjusted) prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities; Oyj financial statements • Level 2: other techniques, for which all inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair Financial liabilities value are observable, either directly or indirectly; Notes to the parent company The Group’s financial liabilities are classified into amortised cost or fair value through profit and loss • Level 3: techniques which use inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair values that financial statements categories. Financial liabilities are measured at amortised cost unless the Group has decided to apply are not based on observable market data. a fair value option to designate a financial liability to be measured at fair value through profit and loss. Signatures for the financial The Group evaluates the categorisation of its fair value measurements within the fair value hierarchy on statements Derivatives a regular basis at the end of the reporting period. There were no transfers recognised in the fair value Derivative financial assets and liabilities are measured at fair value and classified as fair value through hierarchy between Levels 1 and 2 and no transfers into or out of Level 3 fair value measurements during Financials Auditor’s report profit and loss or, if the Group has applied hedge accounting, at fair value through other comprehensive 2019 and 2018. See Note 14 Equity instruments for more information on Level 3 fair value measurement income according to the IFRS 9 standard. Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting are of listed and unlisted securities. Stora Enso in capital markets discussed in more detail in Note 27 Derivatives. Stora Enso as a taxpayer Loan receivables Loan receivables are debt instruments with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted on an active market. They are recorded initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost. Capacities by mill in 2020 Loss allowance for expected credit losses is calculated based on the general approach under IFRS 9, where loss allowance is recognised based on 12-month expected credit losses if there has not been Information for shareholders a significant increase in credit risk since the initial recognition. A significant increase in the credit risk will be evaluated based on comparison of the risk of a default occurring on the financial instrument as at the reporting date with the risk of default occurring on the financial instrument as at the date of initial recognition. The Group may use, for example, rates of credit default swaps (CDS) observable on financial markets to produce the risk assessment. Interest income on loan receivables is included in Financial income and expense. Loan receivables with a maturity less than 12 months are included in current assets under interest-bearing receivables, Governance and those with maturities greater than 12 months, in non-current interest-bearing receivables. 61 Stora Enso 2019: Financials – Notes to the Consolidated financial statements – Note 25 Strategy Carrying amounts of financial assets and liabilities by measurement and fair value categories: 2019 Annual Report 2019 Fair value through Fair value through Hedge accounted Total carrying EUR million Amortised cost OCI Income Statement derivatives amount Fair value Note Financial assets Listed securities 12 12 12 14 Unlisted securities 522 3 526 526 14 Non-current interest-bearing receivables 71 1 72 72 25 Trade and other operative receivables 930 38 968 968 17 Financials Short-term interest-bearing receivables 3 3 17 23 23 25 Cash and cash equivalents 876 876 876 Total 1 879 573 7 18 2 477 2 477 Stora Enso in 2019 Fair value through Hedge accounted Total carrying Report of the EUR million Amortised cost Income Statement derivatives amount Fair value Note Financial liabilities Board of Directors Sustainability Non-current interest-bearing liabilities 3 207 4 21 3 232 3 549 26 Current portion of non-current debt 376 376 376 26 Consolidated financial Short-term interest-bearing liabilities 546 1 24 572 572 26 statements Trade and other operative payables 1 574 25 1 598 1 598 23 Bank overdrafts 13 13 13 Notes to the Consolidated Total 5 716 30 45 5 790 6 107 financial statements Parent Company Stora Enso Carrying amounts of financial assets and liabilities by measurement and fair value categories: 2018 Oyj financial statements Fair value through Fair value through Hedge accounted Total carrying EUR million Amortised cost OCI Income Statement derivatives amount Fair value Note Notes to the parent company Financial assets financial statements Listed securities 13 13 13 14 Unlisted securities 415 8 422 422 14 Signatures for the financial Non-current interest-bearing receivables 54 54 54 25 statements Trade and other operative receivables 1 092 44 1 136 1 136 17 Financials Short-term interest-bearing receivables 1 5 49 55 55 25 Auditor’s report Cash and cash equivalents 1 130 1 130 1 130 Total 2 277 472 13 49 2 811 2 811 Stora Enso in capital markets Fair value through Hedge accounted Total carrying Stora Enso as a taxpayer EUR million Amortised cost Income Statement derivatives amount Fair value Note Financial liabilities Capacities by mill in 2020 Non-current interest-bearing liabilities 2 265 2 265 2 541 26 Current portion of non-current debt 403 403 403 26 Information for shareholders Short-term interest-bearing liabilities 604 7 63 675 675 26 Trade and other operative payables 1 627 21 1 648 1 648 23 Bank overdrafts 1 1 1 Total 4 901 28 63 4 992 5 268 Governance 62 Stora Enso 2019: Financials – Notes to the Consolidated financial statements – Note 25 Strategy In the previous tables, the fair value is estimated to be equal to the carrying amount for short-term financial Fair value measurements recognised in the statement of financial position: 2018 Annual Report 2019 assets and financial liabilities, such as trade receivables and payables due to their short time to maturity As at 31 December and limited credit risk. The fair value of non-current interest-bearing liabilities, considered as a level 2 EUR million Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total fair value measurement, is estimated based on a discounted cash flow analysis in which the yield curves Listed securities observable at commonly quoted intervals are used as a discount factor in the model. Listed securities through OCI 13 13 In 2014, Stora Enso acquired 100% of shares in the US-based company Virdia Inc. The transaction included potential pay-outs depending on the completion of specific technical and commercial milestones. Unlisted securities The present value of the estimated pay-outs, considered as a level 3 fair value measurement, is estimated based on certain probability criteria. At year end, the fair value amounted to EUR 25 (EUR 21) million and Unlisted securities through OCI 415 415 Financials is presented in the table above under trade and other operative payables. In January 2020, the milestones Unlisted securities through profit and loss 8 8 were settled with an amount of approximately EUR 25 million. Trade and other operative assets Stora Enso in 2019 Fair value measurements recognised in the statement of financial position: 2019 Operative receivables through OCI 44 44 As at 31 December Report of the Derivative financial assets EUR million Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Board of Directors Sustainability Listed securities Hedge accounted derivatives 49 49 Listed securities through OCI 12 12 Derivatives at fair value through profit and loss 5 5 Consolidated financial Total financial assets 13 98 422 533 statements Unlisted securities Unlisted securities through OCI 522 522 Trade and other operative liabilities Notes to the Consolidated Unlisted securities through profit and loss 3 3 Operative payables through profit and loss 21 21 financial statements Trade and other operative assets Derivative financial liabilities Parent Company Stora Enso Operative receivables through OCI 38 38 Hedge accounted derivatives 63 63 Oyj financial statements Derivatives at fair value through profit and loss 7 7 Derivative financial assets Total financial liabilities 70 21 91 Notes to the parent company Hedge accounted derivatives 18 18 financial statements Derivatives at fair value through profit and loss 3 3 Interest-bearing receivables Total financial assets 12 59 526 597 As at 31 December Signatures for the financial EUR million 2019 2018 statements Trade and other operative liabilities Long-term derivative assets 1 0 Financials Operative payables through profit and loss 25 25 Long-term deposits 68 50 Auditor’s report Long-term loans to equity accounted investments 2 2 Derivative financial liabilities Other long-term loan receivables 1 2 Stora Enso in capital markets Hedge accounted derivatives 45 45 Total non-current interest-bearing receivables 72 54 Derivatives at fair value through profit and loss 5 5 Short-term derivative assets 20 54 Stora Enso as a taxpayer Total financial liabilities 50 25 75 Short-term deposits 3 0 Other short-term loan receivables 0 1 Capacities by mill in 2020 Total current interest-bearing receivables 23 55 Total interest-bearing receivables 95 110 Information for shareholders The annual average interest rate for deposits and loan receivables at 31 December 2019 was approximately 0.6% (0.4%). Current interest-bearing receivables did not include any accrued interest at 31 December 2019. The Group has evaluated that there has not been a significant increase in credit risk related to interest-bearing receivables after the initial recognition. Accordingly, they are considered to have a low credit risk and loss allowance is recognised based on 12-month expected credit losses. Governance 63 Stora Enso 2019: Financials – Notes to the Consolidated financial statements – Note 26 Strategy Reconciliation of level 3 fair value measurement of financial assets and liabilities The lease liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest Annual Report 2019 method. Lease payment is allocated between the capital liability and finance charges to achieve EUR million 2019 2018 Financial assets a constant interest rate on the outstanding liability balance. Lease liabilities are remeasured mainly Opening balance at 1 January 422 318 when there is a change in future lease payments arising from a change in an index or rate, or if there is a change in the Group’s assessment whether it will exercise an extension option. When lease liability is Gains/losses recognised in income statement 0 -2 remeasured, a corresponding adjustment is generally made to the carrying amount of the ROU asset. Gains/losses recognised in other comprehensive income 109 104 The Group has elected not to recognise lease liabilities for short-term leases that have a lease term Additions 0 3 of 12 months or less and leases of low value assets. Leases of low value assets mainly include IT and Disposals -5 -1 office equipment, certain vehicles and machinery and other low value items. The Group recognises the Financials Closing balance at 31 December 526 422 lease payments associated with these leases as an expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Before transition to IFRS 16 on 1 January 2019, the Group mainly had contracts classified as EUR million 2019 2018 operating leases, which were not capitalised and Stora Enso did not have any material finance lease Stora Enso in 2019 contracts in effect at the end of 2018. Financial liabilities Opening balance at 1 January -21 -20 Report of the Interest-bearing liabilities Gains/losses recognised in income statement -4 0 Board of Directors Sustainability Translation difference 0 -1 As at 31 December Closing balance at 31 December -25 -21 EUR million 2019 2018 Consolidated financial Bond loans 1 978 1 523 statements Loans from credit institutions 1 162 1 140 Lease liabilities 440 0 Notes to the Consolidated Note 26 Interest-bearing liabilities Finance lease liabilities 0 1 financial statements Derivative financial liabilities (see Note 25) 24 0 Accounting principles Other non-current liabilities 5 4 Parent Company Stora Enso Non-current interest-bearing liabilities including current portion 3 608 2 668 Oyj financial statements Interest-bearing liabilities Short-term borrowings 516 566 Interest-bearing liabilities are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred. Interest payable 33 40 Notes to the parent company In subsequent periods, interest-bearing liabilities are measured at amortised cost using the effective Derivative financial liabilities (see Note 25) 23 68 financial statements interest method. Any difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and redemption value is Bank overdrafts 13 1 recognised in the Consolidated income statement over the maturity period of the borrowings. Interest Total Interest-bearing Liabilities 4 192 3 344 Signatures for the financial expenses are accrued for and recorded in the Consolidated Income statement for each period. statements Interest-bearing liabilities with an original maturity greater than 12 months are classified as non-current EUR million 2019 2018 interest-bearing liabilities in the Consolidated statement of financial position, though repayments falling Financials Carrying Value at 1 January 3 344 3 016 Auditor’s report due within 12 months are presented in current liabilities under the current portion of non-current debt. Additions in lease liabilities due to adoption of IFRS 16 525 0 Short-term commercial paper, bank and other interest-bearing liabilities, for which the original maturity is Acquisition of subsidiary companies 793 0 Stora Enso in capital markets less than 12 months, are presented in current liabilities under interest-bearing liabilities. Proceeds of new long-term debt 870 578 Additions in lease liabilities 29 0 Stora Enso as a taxpayer Lease liabilities Repayment of long-term debt -1 216 -358 At inception of a contract, the Group assesses whether a contract is, or contains, a lease. A contract is, or contains, a lease if the contract conveys the right to control the use of an identified asset for a period Repayment of lease liabilities and interest -88 0 Capacities by mill in 2020 Change in short-term borrowings and interest payable -58 46 of time in exchange for consideration. Lease liabilities are initially capitalised at the commencement of the lease and measured at the present value of the lease payments that are not paid at the Change in derivative financial liabilities -21 32 Information for shareholders commencement date, discounted using the Group’s incremental borrowing rate. The lease term applied Translation differences and other 13 30 corresponds to the non-cancellable period except in cases where the Group is reasonably certain to Total Interest-bearing Liabilities 4 192 3 344 exercise renewal option or prolong the contract. The Group allocates the consideration in the contract to each lease component and separates non-lease components if these are identifiable. Lease terms are negotiated on an individual basis and contain a wide range of different terms and conditions. Governance 64 Stora Enso 2019: Financials – Notes to the Consolidated financial statements – Note 26 Strategy Events during 2019 and 2018 balance sheet. In the fourth quarter of 2018, Moody’s Investors Service also assigned Stora Enso Oyj an Annual Report 2019 In 2018, Stora Enso launched a Green Bond Framework as part of its Sustainable Finance approach. The investment grade credit rating by upgrading the long-term issuer rating from Ba1 to Baa3 with stable outlook. ambition is to offer a loan-format to support sustainability-focused fixed income investors and to report the direct environmental impacts of some investments and business activities. In February 2019, Stora Enso Interest-bearing liabilities – maturities, interest rates and currency breakdown successfully issued its first Green Bonds with a total nominal value of SEK 6 000 million. The bonds consist Stora Enso’s borrowings maturities range from 2020 to the longest borrowing maturing in 2036. Borrowings of three tranches with SEK 3 000 million maturing in August 2021 and paying a floating coupon of STIBOR have either fixed or floating interest rates ranging from 0.5% (0.9%) to 7.3% (8.6%). The average interest +0.85%, SEK 1 250 million maturing in February 2024 and paying a floating coupon of STIBOR +1.45%, rate on borrowings amounted to 3.5% (4.3%) at the year end. Part of Stora Enso’s borrowings have been and SEK 1 750 million maturing in February 2024 and paying a fixed coupon of 1.875%. There are no fixed through floating-to-fixed interest rate swaps and cross-currency swaps. The majority of Group loans financial covenants for the bonds. Please refer to the Stora Enso Sustainability report 2019 for further are denominated in euros, US dollars, Swedish crowns or Chinese renminbis. Detailed maturity analysis of Financials information regarding the use of proceeds and Stora Enso’s Sustainable Finance strategy. the Group’s borrowings are set out in Note 24 Financial risk management. In the second quarter of 2019, Stora Enso issued SEK 1 000 million loan in Green Bond format under the EMTN and Green Bond frameworks. The loan matures in 2026. In addition, Stora Enso entered into a new Net debt Stora Enso in 2019 amortising credit-institution loan with the nominal of SEK 1 500 million. The loan matures in 2021. In 2019, net interest-bearing liabilities increased by EUR 1 117 (decreased by EUR 161) million to EUR 3 209 During 2019, Stora Enso’s total repayments of USD and EUR bond notes amounted to a nominal of (EUR 2 092) million. Net interest-bearing liabilities are equal to total interest-bearing liabilities less total Report of the EUR 219 (EUR bond notes of EUR 159) million. interest-bearing assets such as cash and deposits. Cash and cash equivalents net of overdrafts decreased by Board of Directors Sustainability In 2018, Stora Enso successfully issued a new EUR 300 million bond under its EMTN (Euro Medium EUR 265 (increased by EUR 525) million to EUR 863 (EUR 1 128) million as at 31 December 2019. In 2019, the Term Note) programme. The bond matures in March 2028 and pays a fixed coupon of 2.5%. total cash outflow for leases was EUR 88 million including interest component of EUR 20 million. Consolidated financial In the third quarter of 2018, Fitch Ratings assigned Stora Enso Oyj an investment grade credit rating The ratio of net debt to the last 12 months’ operational EBITDA was 2.1 (1.1). The net debt/equity ratio statements of BBBwith a stable outlook highlighting Stora Enso’s improved cash flow generation and strengthened was 0.43 (0.31) as per the year-end. Notes to the Consolidated Bond loans financial statements Issue/ Maturity Dates Description of Bond Interest Rate % Currency of Bond Outstanding As at 31 December Carrying Value As at 31 December Parent Company Stora Enso Nominal Value Issued 2019 2018 2019 2018 Oyj financial statements All Liabilities are Held by the Parent Company Currency million EUR million Fixed Rate Notes to the parent company 1993-2019 Series C Senior Notes 2019 8.6 USD 50 0 50 0 45 2006-2036 Global 7.250% Notes 2036 7.25 USD 300 300 300 264 259 financial statements 2012-2019 Euro Medium Term Note 5.5 EUR 500 0 175 0 175 Signatures for the financial 2016-2023 Euro Medium Term Note 2.125 EUR 300 300 300 299 298 2017-2027 Euro Medium Term Note 2.5 EUR 300 300 300 299 298 statements 2018-2028 Euro Medium Term Note 2.5 EUR 300 300 300 298 298 Financials 2019-2024 Euro Medium Term Note (Green Bond) 1.875 SEK 1 750 1 750 0 167 0 Auditor’s report Total Fixed Rate Bond Loans 1 326 1 373 Stora Enso in capital markets Floating Rate Stora Enso as a taxpayer 2015-2025 Euro Medium Term Note Euribor+2.25 EUR 125 125 125 125 125 2015-2027 Euro Medium Term Note Euribor+2.35 EUR 25 25 25 25 25 Capacities by mill in 2020 2019-2021 Euro Medium Term Note (Green Bond) Stibor+0.85 SEK 3 000 3 000 0 287 0 2019-2024 Euro Medium Term Note (Green Bond) Stibor+1.45 SEK 1 250 1 250 0 119 0 Information for shareholders 2019-2026 Euro Medium Term Note (Green Bond) Stibor+1.60 SEK 1 000 1 000 0 95 0 Total Floating Rate Bond Loans 651 150 Total Bond Loans 1 978 1 523 Finance lease liabilities under IAS 17 At 31 December 2018, Stora Enso had a small number of finance leasing agreements for machinery and buildings for which capital costs of EUR 3 million were included in property, plant and equipment and Governance buildings; the depreciation and impairment thereon was EUR 2 million in 2018. The aggregate leasing payments for the year 2018 amounted to EUR 28 million, the interest element being EUR 1 million. The present value of finance lease liabilities as per the year-end 2018 amounted to EUR 1 million. The Group adopted IFRS 16 Leases standard on 1st January 2019. 65 Stora Enso 2019: Financials – Notes to the Consolidated financial statements – Note 27 Strategy Note 27 Derivatives OCI are transferred from equity to be included in the initial acquisition cost of the non-financial asset Annual Report 2019 at the time of recognition. The deferred amounts are ultimately recognised in the income statement through depreciation over the lifetime of the non-financial assets. Accounting principles When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised or no longer meets the hedge accounting criteria under IFRS 9, any cumulative gain or loss deferred in equity at that time Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting remains in equity and is accounted for as an adjustment to income or expense when the committed Financial derivatives are initially recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position at fair or forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the consolidated income statement. However, if the value and subsequently measured at their fair value at each reporting date, though the method of underlying forecasted transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss reported recognising the resulting gains or losses is dependent on the nature of the item being hedged. When in equity from the period when the hedge was effective is immediately recognised in the consolidated Financials derivative contracts are entered into, the Group designates them as either hedges of highly probable income statement. forecast transactions or firm commitments (cash flow hedges), hedges of the exposure to changes in the fair value of recognised assets or liabilities (fair value hedges), hedges of net investments in foreign Fair value hedges Stora Enso in 2019 entities, or derivative financial instruments not meeting the hedge accounting criteria in accordance with In case of fair value hedges, the Group uses either derivatives or borrowings as a hedging instrument IFRS 9. Derivative contracts with maturity greater than 12 months are classified as non-current interestto manage the risk associated with the fair value of a hedged item. The gains and losses on hedging Report of the bearing receivables and liabilities, and contracts maturing within 12 months are presented under current instruments designated and qualifying as fair value hedges, and which are highly effective, are recorded Board of Directors Sustainability interest-bearing receivables and liabilities. in the consolidated income statement, along with any changes in the fair value of the hedged assets or At the inception of a hedge, the Group documents the relationship between the hedging instrument liabilities attributable to the hedged risk. Consolidated financial and the hedged item, as well as its risk management objective and strategy for undertaking various statements hedging transactions. This process includes linking all financial instruments designated under hedge Net investment hedges accounting to specific assets and liabilities or to specific firm commitments or highly probable forecast For hedges of net investments in foreign entities, the Group uses either derivatives or foreignNotes to the Consolidated transactions in order to verify and document the hedge relationship between the hedged item and the currency borrowings for this purpose. If the hedging instrument is a derivative, any gain or loss hedging instrument as required by IFRS 9. thereon relating to the effective portion of the hedge is recognised in equity in CTA as disclosed in financial statements The hedge ratio used for hedging relationships is usually 1:1. For currency and commodity hedging the consolidated statement of comprehensive income; the gain or loss relating to the ineffective purposes, the Group uses a hedge designation where the critical terms of the hedging instrument and portion is immediately recognised in the consolidated income statement. In addition, exchange gains Parent Company Stora Enso the hedged item will coincide in terms of the notional amount and timing. In respect of interest rate and losses arising on the translation of a foreign-currency borrowing that hedges net investment Oyj financial statements hedging, the interest rate basis between swap contracts and underlying debt will coincide. Since the in a foreign operation are also recognised in CTA, with any ineffective portion being immediately critical terms of the hedges and underlying risks match, the hedging instruments are considered to recognised in the consolidated income statement. The gains and losses recognised in CTA are Notes to the parent company offset any changes related to the anticipated transactions. Potential source of ineffectiveness for all recycled from equity to the consolidated income statement at the time when the underlying hedged financial statements the above mentioned hedges is possible credit risk dominating value changes. Potential sources of net investment is disposed. ineffectiveness that may be expected to occur in relation to currency and commodity hedges are mainly Signatures for the financial related to the forecasted transaction not occurring in the amount or at the time expected. For interest Fair value through profit and loss derivatives statements rate hedges, cross-currency basis spread or initial fair value of the hedging instrument at the date of Certain derivative transactions, while providing effective economic hedges under Group risk hedge designation may result in ineffectiveness. management policies, do not qualify for hedge accounting under the specific rules in IFRS 9 and Financials Auditor’s report The Group also documents its qualitative prospective assessment at the hedge inception of whether therefore changes in the fair value of such non-qualifying hedges are accounted for at fair value in the derivatives used in a hedge relationship are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair value or cash the consolidated income statement. For non-hedge accounted derivatives economically hedging net Stora Enso in capital markets flows of hedged items. Hedge effectiveness will be assessed in accordance with IFRS 9 requirements. of operative receivables and payables in foreign currencies, the fair value changes are recognised in operating profit. For other non-hedge accounted derivatives, the fair value changes are recognised in Stora Enso as a taxpayer Cash flow hedges the consolidated income statement under financial income and expense. Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated and qualifying as cash flow hedges, and which are effective, are recognised in the cash flow hedges reserve within OCI, the movements of which are Valuation of derivatives Capacities by mill in 2020 disclosed in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income. For currency forwards, both the Derivative financial instruments are recorded in the statement of financial position at their fair values spot element and forward points have been included to the hedge designation. In case of currency defined as the amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in an orderly transaction between Information for shareholders options, the time value of an option is excluded from the hedge designation and only the intrinsic value market participants at the measurement date. The fair values of such financial items have been component of an option is designated as the hedging instrument. The changes in option time value are estimated on the following basis: recognised in a cost of hedging reserve within OCI. The cumulative gain or loss of a derivative deferred • Currency forward contract fair values are calculated using forward exchange rates at the reporting date. in equity is transferred to the consolidated income statement and classified as an income or expense in • Currency option contract fair values are calculated using reporting date market rates together with the same period in which the hedged item affects the consolidated income statement. Realised results common option pricing models. of hedge accounted derivative instruments hedging foreign currency sales transactions or purchases • Commodity contract fair values are computed with reference to quoted market prices on futures are booked as adjustments to sales or materials and services, depending on the nature of the underlying exchanges or other reliable market sources. Governance hedged item. • Interest rate swaps fair values are calculated using a discounted cash flow method. In respect of hedges of exposures to foreign currency risk of future transactions resulting in the • Cross-currency swaps fair values are calculated using a discounted cash flow method with the recognition of non-financial assets, the gains and losses deferred to the cash flow hedges reserve within exchange of notionals being also included into the valuation model. 66 Stora Enso 2019: Financials – Notes to the Consolidated financial statements – Note 27 Strategy Shareholders’ equity – other comprehensive income Breakdown of cash flow hedging reserve and net investment hedges in equity 2018 Annual Report 2019 Outstanding derivatives designated under cash flow hedge accounting are measured at fair value with the Change in Reclassified fair value movements being recorded in the separate equity category of OCI: Cash Flow Hedges Reserve. fair value from OCI to The time value of options is excluded from the cash flow hedge designation and recognised separately in At 1 Jan recognised profit and At 31 Dec a cost of hedging reserve within OCI. EUR million 2018 in OCI/CTA loss Tax impact 2018 Foreign exchange risk Cash flow hedge derivatives Operational cash flow hedging 18 -72 28 9 -17 Derivatives used in currency cash flow hedges are mainly forward contracts and options, with swaps Commodity price risk Commodity swaps 1 12 21 -8 25 mainly used for commodity and interest rate hedging purposes. In respect of commodity hedges, the Interest rate risk Interest rate swaps -4 -1 0 0 -5 Financials Group also uses risk component hedging to hedge highly probable forecast purchases of natural gas. Interest rate and foreign exchange risk These purchases create natural gas price exposure which translates as coal and crude oil risk components Cross-currency swaps 0 -19 6 3 -10 that can be hedged by using API2 coal and Dated Brent crude oil linked swaps, which are expected to Cost of hedging reserve -1 -1 0 0 -2 Stora Enso in 2019 fully offset changes in the market value of the hedged risk components. Both of the risk components are Total cash flow hedge reserve in OCI 14 -81 54 4 -9 separately identifiable and reliably measurable due to the pricing formula being specified in the natural gas Foreign exchange risk Report of the purchase agreement. Net investment hedges 31 -14 0 3 20 Board of Directors Total net investment hedges in CTA 31 -14 0 3 20 Sustainability In 2019, the group entered into new interest rate swap contracts with a total nominal value of SEK 4 000 million. The interest rate swaps have been designated as cash flow hedges of newly issued SEK Total hedging reserves 45 -95 54 7 11 Consolidated financial denominated floating-rate Green Bonds maturing in 2021, 2024 and 2026. In 2018, the group entered statements into a new floating-to-fixed cross-currency swap contract in China with a total nominal value of EUR 200 million. The cross-currency swap has been designated under cash flow hedge accounting to hedge the Equity accounted investments Notes to the Consolidated underlying foreign currency and interest rate risks of Euro denominated floating-rate debt in China. The Associate companies record hedges and pensions-related amounts directly in equity, and the Group also hedge will mature in 2023. records its share of these amounts in equity in the “OCI of Equity Accounted Investments” classification. financial statements The unrealised gains and losses related to cash flow hedges are expected to be recycled through the Income Statement within one to three years with the longest hedging contract maturing in 2027 (2027), OCI equity accounted investments Parent Company Stora Enso however the majority of the contracts are expected to mature in 2020. Cash flow hedging reserve and net Year ended 31 December Oyj financial statements investment hedges in equity are presented in more detail in the following table. EUR million 2019 2018 Notes to the parent company Bergvik Skog AB 0 -11 Breakdown of cash flow hedging reserve and net investment hedges in equity 2019 Total 0 -11 financial statements Change in Reclassified fair value from OCI to Signatures for the financial At 1 Jan recognised profit and At 31 Dec Fair values of derivatives statements EUR million 2019 in OCI/CTA loss Tax impact 2019 Foreign exchange risk Total foreign exchange gains and losses in the income statement excluding hedges Financials Operational cash flow hedging -17 -67 86 -4 -2 Auditor’s report Year ended 31 December Commodity price risk Commodity swaps 25 -23 -12 9 -2 EUR million 2019 2018 Interest rate risk Interest rate swaps -5 -4 0 1 -8 Stora Enso in capital markets Sales 12 24 Interest rate and foreign exchange risk Cross-currency swaps -10 1 1 -3 -11 Costs and expenses -10 -16 Stora Enso as a taxpayer Cost of hedging reserve -2 3 0 -1 1 Borrowings, deposits and lease liabilities -6 -55 Total cash flow hedge reserve in OCI -9 -90 75 1 -22 Total -3 -46 Capacities by mill in 2020 Foreign exchange risk Net investment hedges 20 -6 -4 1 12 Information for shareholders Total net investment hedges in CTA 20 -6 -4 1 12 Total hedging reserves 11 -96 72 3 -10 Governance 67 Stora Enso 2019: Financials – Notes to the Consolidated financial statements – Note 27 Strategy Hedge gains and losses in operating profit Annual Report 2019 Year ended 31 December EUR million 2019 2018 Cash flow hedge accounted derivatives Currency hedges -83 -28 Commodity hedges 12 -21 Total -71 -48 As adjustments to Sales -79 -76 Financials As adjustments to Materials and services 8 28 Realised from OCI through Income Statement -71 -48 Currency hedges ineffectiveness -3 0 Stora Enso in 2019 Net losses from cash flow hedges -74 -48 Report of the Non-hedge accounted derivatives Board of Directors Sustainability Currency derivatives -17 -16 Net losses on non-hedge accounted derivatives -17 -16 Consolidated financial statements Net hedge losses in operating profit -91 -65 Notes to the Consolidated In 2019, certain forecasted future transactions were no longer expected to occur, and due to this hedge financial statements accounting was ceased for those transactions. This resulted in a loss of EUR 3 million being booked in the Group’s operating profit, and the loss being presented in the table above as ineffectiveness from cash flow Parent Company Stora Enso hedges. During 2018, there was no cash flow hedge ineffectiveness recorded in operating profit. Oyj financial statements Hedge gains and losses in financial items Notes to the parent company Year ended 31 December financial statements EUR million 2019 2018 Cash flow hedge accounted derivatives Signatures for the financial Currency hedges ineffectiveness 0 -1 statements Interest rate hedges ineffectiveness 0 -3 Financials Net losses from cash flow hedges -1 -4 Auditor’s report Non-hedge accounted derivatives Stora Enso in capital markets Currency derivatives 0 22 Net gains/losses on non-hedge accounted derivatives 0 22 Stora Enso as a taxpayer Net gains/losses in financial items -1 18 Capacities by mill in 2020 Information for shareholders Governance 68 Stora Enso 2019: Financials – Notes to the Consolidated financial statements – Note 27 Strategy Nominal and fair values of derivative instruments Annual Report 2019 As at 31 December EUR million Nominal values Positive fair values Negative fair values Net fair values Nominal values Positive fair values Negative fair values Net fair values 2019 2018 Currency derivatives Forwards: Operational cash flow hedging 759 6 -9 -4 1 267 7 -15 -7 Options: Operational cash flow hedging 1 458 9 -8 1 1 375 6 -24 -18 Total cash flow hedge accounted 2 217 15 -17 -2 2 642 13 -38 -25 Financials Forwards: Trade and loan receivables hedging 414 3 -1 3 686 4 -6 -2 Total non-hedge accounted 414 3 -1 3 686 4 -6 -2 Total currency derivatives 2 631 18 -18 0 3 328 17 -44 -27 Stora Enso in 2019 Commodity derivatives Report of the Electricity swaps: Costs hedging 63 1 -5 -4 67 35 0 35 Board of Directors Sustainability Oil swaps: Costs hedging 14 1 0 1 15 0 -2 -2 Coal swaps: Costs hedging 3 0 0 0 5 0 0 0 Consolidated financial Total cash flow hedge accounted 80 2 -5 -3 87 35 -2 33 statements Electricity swaps: Closed contracts 0 0 0 0 2 1 -1 0 Total non-hedge accounted 0 0 0 0 2 1 -1 0 Notes to the Consolidated Total commodity derivatives 80 2 -5 -3 89 37 -4 33 financial statements Interest rate derivatives Parent Company Stora Enso Interest rate swaps: Financial expenses hedging 563 0 -12 -11 187 1 -6 -5 Oyj financial statements Cross-currency swaps: Financial expenses hedging 200 0 -15 -15 200 0 -16 -16 Total cash flow hedge accounted 763 0 -27 -27 387 1 -23 -22 Notes to the parent company Total interest rate derivatives 763 0 -27 -27 387 1 -23 -22 financial statements Total cash flow hedge accounted 3 060 18 -49 -32 3 116 49 -63 -14 Signatures for the financial Total non-hedge accounted 414 3 -1 3 688 5 -7 -2 statements Total derivatives 3 474 21 -50 -29 3 804 54 -70 -16 Financials Auditor’s report Positive and negative fair values of financial derivative instruments are shown under Interest-bearing receivables and liabilities, and Non-current interest-bearing receivables and liabilities. The presented fair Stora Enso in capital markets values in the table include accrued interest and option premiums. Stora Enso as a taxpayer Capacities by mill in 2020 Information for shareholders Governance 69 Stora Enso 2019: Financials – Notes to the Consolidated financial statements – Note 28 Strategy Changes in fair values of hedged items and hedging instruments 2019 Note 28 Cumulative translation adjustment and equity hedging Annual Report 2019 Change in value Change in value of hedged item to of outstanding Cumulative translation adjustment determine hedge hedging EUR million effectiveness instruments Ineffectiveness Year ended 31 December EUR million 2019 2018 Foreign exchange risk Forward and option contracts (excluding option time value)1 64 -67 -3 At 1 January Foreign exchange risk Net investment hedges 6 -6 0 CTA on net investment in non-euro foreign entities -355 -319 Commodity price risk Commodity swaps 23 -23 0 Hedging 27 41 Financials Interest rate risk Interest rate swaps 4 -4 0 Net currency losses/gains in equity Tax on hedging -328 -7 -278 -10 Interest rate and foreign exchange risk Cross-currency swaps -1 1 0 Net CTA in Equity -335 -288 Stora Enso in 2019 1 Ineffectiveness booked in Operating profit. CTA Movement for the Year Reported in OCI Report of the Changes in fair values of hedged items and hedging instruments 2018 Restatement of opening non-euro denominated equity 7 -70 Board of Directors Sustainability Change in value Change in value Difference in Income Statement translation 13 1 of hedged item to of outstanding Internal equity injections and dividends 5 6 Consolidated financial determine hedge hedging Other 0 -1 EUR million effectiveness instruments Ineffectiveness statements CTA release through the Income Statement 182 27 Foreign exchange risk Forward and option contracts (excluding option time value)1 71 -72 -1 CTA Movement in OCI 206 -36 Notes to the Consolidated Foreign exchange risk Net investment hedges 14 -14 0 financial statements Commodity price risk Commodity swaps -12 12 0 Net Investment Hedging and Loans for the year reported in OCI Interest rate risk Interest rate swaps 1 -1 0 Hedging and Loans -9 -14 Parent Company Stora Enso Interest rate and foreign exchange risk Tax on Hedging and Loans 1 3 Oyj financial statements Cross-currency swaps1 12 -15 -3 Net Hedging and Loans Movement in OCI -8 -11 1 Ineffectiveness booked in Net financial items. Notes to the parent company At 31 December financial statements Financial impact of netting for instruments subject to an enforceable master netting agreement 2019 CTA on net investment in non-euro foreign entities -148 -355 Hedging and Loans 18 27 Not offset in the Statement of Financial Position Signatures for the financial Gross amount Related liabilities Cumulative net currency losses in equity -130 -328 statements of recognised (-) or assets (+) Tax on Hedging and Loans -6 -7 financial subject to master Collateral received Net CTA in Equity -136 -335 Financials EUR million instruments netting agreements (-) or given (+) Net exposure Auditor’s report Derivative assets 21 -14 0 7 Net Investment Hedging and Loans in foreign entities Derivative liabilities -50 14 0 -36 Stora Enso in capital markets Hedging and Loans 18 27 Tax on Hedging and Loans -6 -7 Stora Enso as a taxpayer Net Hedging and Loans Result in Equity 12 20 Financial impact of netting for instruments subject to an enforceable master netting agreement 2018 Capacities by mill in 2020 Not offset in the Statement of Financial Position Realised gains 37 45 Gross amount Related liabilities Unrealised gains/losses -25 -25 of recognised (-) or assets (+) Information for shareholders financial subject to master Collateral received Net Hedging and Loans Result in Equity 12 20 EUR million instruments netting agreements (-) or given (+) Net exposure Derivative assets 54 -24 0 30 The group is currently only hedging its equity exposure to the US dollar. The main movements in CTA Derivative liabilities -70 24 0 -46 in 2019 were a gain of EUR 158 (a loss EUR 53) million related to the Swedish crown, a gain of EUR 25 (EUR 61) million related to the US dollar, a gain of EUR 15 (a loss of EUR 16) million related to the Russian The Group enters into derivative transactions under master netting agreements agreed with each ruble and a gain of EUR 8 (a loss of EUR 4) million related to the Chinese renminbi. The most significant counterparty. In case of an unlikely credit event, such as default, all outstanding transactions under the accumulated CTA balances are in Brazil, amounting to a loss of EUR 209 (EUR 204) million, in the US Governance agreements are terminated, and only a single net amount per counterparty is payable for settlement of all dollar area, amounting to a gain of EUR 164 (EUR 139) million, in Sweden, amounting to a loss of EUR 128 transactions. The agreements do not meet the criteria for offsetting in the statement of financial position, (EUR 286) million and in China, amounting to a gain of EUR 73 (EUR 65) million. because offsetting is enforceable only in the occurrence of certain future events. 70 Stora Enso 2019: Financials – Notes to the Consolidated financial statements – Note 29 Strategy The release of cumulative translation adjustments to the income statement amounted to a loss of currency movements arising from the restatement of the net investments at current exchange rates on the Annual Report 2019 EUR 182 (EUR 27) million in 2019; a loss of EUR 171 million was related to the Bergvik Skog restructuring reporting date; the net amount of losses included in CTA during the period as shown in the previous table in Sweden, a loss of EUR 8 million to the liquidation of Stora Enso Suzhou Paper in China, a loss of amounted to EUR 8 (EUR 11) million. EUR 6 million to the liquidation of SE Försäkringsaktiebolag in Sweden and a gain of EUR 3 million to the disposal of Stora Enso Huatai Paper in China. Hedging instruments and unrealised hedge losses As at 31 December Amounts recognized in the statement of financial position Nominal amount CTA and Net Investment Hedges and Loans (Currency) Nominal amount (EUR) Unrealised Losses (EUR) As at 31 December EUR million 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Financials Cumulative Translation Net Investment Hedges Net CTA in the Statement Borrowings Adjustments (CTA) and Loans of Financial Position USD area 300 350 267 306 -25 -25 EUR million 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Total Hedging 267 306 -25 -25 Stora Enso in 2019 Brazil -209 -204 0 0 -209 -204 China 73 65 0 0 73 65 Report of the Net investment loans Czech Republic 33 32 -9 -9 24 23 Board of Directors Sustainability Poland -24 -28 0 17 -7 -11 The Group has applied net investment loan accounting under IAS 21 for certain intragroup loans. At 31 December 2019 Net investment loans had an impact of EUR 0 million on CTA in Equity. Russia -55 -71 0 0 -55 -71 Consolidated financial Sweden -128 -286 47 50 -82 -236 statements Uruguay 158 135 -37 -31 122 105 Note 29 Commitments and contingencies USA 6 4 0 0 6 4 Notes to the Consolidated Others -1 -1 0 0 -1 -1 financial statements CTA before Tax -148 -355 18 27 -130 -328 Accounting principles Taxes 0 0 -6 -7 -6 -7 Parent Company Stora Enso Net CTA in Equity -148 -355 12 20 -136 -335 Guarantees Oyj financial statements The guarantees entered into with financial institutions and other credit guarantors generally oblige the group to make payment in the event of default by the borrower. The guarantees have an off-balance Notes to the parent company Amounts recognized in the statement of other comprehensive income sheet credit risk representing the accounting loss that would be recognised at the reporting date if financial statements CTA and Net Investment Hedges and Loans the counterparties fail to perform completely as contracted. The credit risk amounts are equal to the As at 31 December contract sums, assuming the amounts are not paid in full and are irrecoverable from other parties. Signatures for the financial Cumulative Translation Net Investment Hedges statements Adjustments (CTA) and Loans Net CTA in OCI Commitments EUR million 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Financials As at 31 December Auditor’s report Brazil -5 -14 0 0 -5 -14 EUR million 2019 2018 China 8 -4 0 0 8 -4 On own behalf Stora Enso in capital markets Czech Republic 1 -1 0 0 1 -1 Mortgages 2 2 Poland 4 -10 0 0 4 -10 Operating leases in next 12 months 0 100 Stora Enso as a taxpayer Russia 15 -16 0 0 15 -16 Operating leases after next 12 months 0 631 Sweden 158 -53 -3 0 154 -53 Other commitments 3 6 Capacities by mill in 2020 Uruguay 23 56 -6 -14 17 42 On behalf of equity accounted investments USA 2 5 0 0 2 5 Guarantees 4 4 Information for shareholders Others 0 0 0 0 0 0 On behalf of others CTA before Tax 206 -36 -9 -14 197 -50 Guarantees 6 23 Taxes 0 0 1 3 1 3 Other commitments 13 13 Amounts Total 28 779 recognised in OCI 206 -36 -8 -11 198 -47 Mortgages 2 2 Hedging of net investment in foreign entities Governance Guarantees 10 27 The Group policy for translation risk exposure is to minimise this by funding assets whenever possible and Operating leases 0 731 economically viable in the same currency, but if matching the assets and liabilities in the same currency is Other commitments 17 19 not possible, hedging of the remaining translation risk may take place. The gains and losses net of tax on Total 28 779 all financial liabilities and instruments used for hedging purposes are offset in CTA against the respective 71 Stora Enso 2019: Financials – Notes to the Consolidated financial statements – Note 29 Strategy In 2019, the Group’s commitments amounted to EUR 28 (EUR 779) million. In addition, the parent company In June 2017, Veracel received a tax infringement note referring to year 2012 with a total amount of Annual Report 2019 Stora Enso Oyj has guaranteed the liabilities of many of its subsidiaries and joint operations up to EUR 1 508 BRL 224 (EUR 50) million including interest and fines. The dispute was limited to fiscal year 2012 for which (EUR 1 962) million as of 31 December 2019. the tax authority applied another transfer pricing method due to a different interpretation of a transition rule. Operating lease obligations have been reported in the balance sheet in accordance with requirements of The total exposure at year end 2018 was BRL 241 (EUR 54) million considering interest until 31 December IFRS 16 Leases since 1 January 2019. More details regarding right-of-use assets are presented in Note 11 2018. Stora Enso’s share of the exposure was BRL 120 (EUR 27) million. Veracel has filed an administrative Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment and regarding lease liabilities in Note 26 Interestdefense against the tax note in July 2017 which has been finally decided in favour of Veracel in May 2019. bearing liabilities. There will be no further reporting on this dispute. The tax authority has claimed that an amount of BRL 139 million (EUR 31 million) of PIS (social Repayment schedule of operating lease commitments integration program) and COFINS (contribution for the financing of social security) paid by Veracel on Financials As at 31 December the purchase of raw materials and services for fiscal years 2006 until 2015 was not eligible for tax credit. EUR million 2019 2018 Veracel has recorded a write-down related to PIS and COFINS credits of BRL 42 million (EUR 10 million) in relation tax authority claims that were closed in 2019. Stora Enso and Veracel consider the remaining Stora Enso in 2019 Less than 1 year 0 100 pending claims of BRL 97 million (EUR 21 million) unjustified and no provisions have been recorded in 1–2 years 0 92 Veracel’s or Stora Enso’s accounts for this matter. The dispute was still pending at balance sheet date. Report of the 2–3 years 0 78 The remaining pending claim relating to Stora Enso’s share in Veracel is BRL 49 million (EUR 11 million). Board of Directors 3–4 years 0 57 Sustainability 4–5 years 0 48 Legal proceedings in Sweden Consolidated financial Over 5 years 0 356 statements Total 0 731 Insurance claim In July and August 2016, six Swedish insurance companies filed lawsuits in the Environmental Court and Notes to the Consolidated Capital commitments the District Court of Falun against Stora Enso, due to damage caused by the forest fire in Västmanland, Sweden, in 2014. The claimed amount is approximately SEK 300 (EUR 30) million, excluding interest. The financial statements As at 31 December EUR million 2019 2018 environmental law case is closed based on that the environmental code was not applicable on damages caused by fire. The other case in the District Court of Falun has now been settled and the settlement amount Parent Company Stora Enso Total 223 111 in full has been covered by insurance and without financial impact for Stora Enso. Hence, there are no longer Oyj financial statements any open cases for compensation due to the forest fire. There will be no further reporting of these claims. Capital expenditure commitments are not recognised in the balance sheet and these include the Group’s Notes to the parent company share of direct capital expenditure contracts in joint operations. Commitments in relation to capital Company fine financial statements expenditure mainly relate to the Oulu mill conversion and other ongoing projects at the Imatra Mill in Finland In January 2018, a Swedish prosecutor filed a lawsuit against Stora Enso and its supplier, due to the forest and the Maxau Mill in Germany. fire in Västmanland, Sweden in 2014, claiming a company fine of SEK 5 million each. In December 2019, Signatures for the financial the court acquitted Stora Enso of responsibility for causing the fire. The verdict has been appealed to the statements Contingent liabilities Court of Appeal by the prosecutor and the supplier. The prosecutor has reduced the claim for company fine Stora Enso has undertaken significant restructuring actions in recent years which have included the to SEK 2.5 million. There will be no further reporting of this case. Financials Auditor’s report divestment of companies, sale of assets and mill closures. These transactions include a risk of possible environmental or other obligations the existence of which would be confirmed only by the occurrence or Stora Enso in capital markets non-occurrence of one or more uncertain future events not wholly within the control of the Group. Stora Enso is party to legal proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of business and which primarily Stora Enso as a taxpayer involve claims arising out of commercial law. The management does not consider that liabilities related to such proceedings before insurance recoveries, if any, are likely to be material to the Group’s financial condition or results of operations. Capacities by mill in 2020 Legal proceedings in Latin America Information for shareholders Veracel On 11 July 2008, Stora Enso announced that a federal judge in Brazil had issued a decision claiming that the permits issued by the State of Bahia for the operations of Stora Enso’s joint operations company Veracel were not valid. The judge also ordered Veracel to take certain actions, including reforestation with native trees on part of Veracel’s plantations and a possible fine of BRL 20 (EUR 5) million. Veracel disputes the decision and has filed an appeal against it. Veracel operates in full compliance with all Brazilian laws Governance and has obtained all the necessary environmental and operating licences for its industrial and forestry activities from the relevant authorities. In November 2008, a Federal Court suspended the effects of the decision. No provisions have been recorded in Veracel’s or Stora Enso’s accounts for the reforestation or the possible fine. 72 Stora Enso 2019: Financials – Notes to the Consolidated financial statements – Note 30 Strategy Note 30 Principal subsidiaries and joint operations Annual Report 2019 The following is a list of the Company’s fifty principal operating subsidiary undertakings ranked by external sales. These companies along with the parent account for 99% (99%) of Group external sales. The principal country in which each subsidiary operates is the country of incorporation. The group’s effective interest in the undertakings is 100%, except where indicated, and is held in each case by a subsidiary undertaking, except for those companies marked with “+” which are held directly by the parent company. Subsidiaries operating outside the euro area are indicated by “◊”. Financials Subsidiary companies (ranked by external sales) Packaging Country Sales % Consumer Board Solutions Biomaterials Wood Products Paper Other Stora Enso in 2019 Stora Enso Oyj Finland 16.20 • • • • • • Stora Enso Paper AB ◊ Sweden 7.42 • Report of the Stora Enso International Oy + Finland 7.12 • Board of Directors Sustainability Stora Enso AB1 +/◊ Sweden 6.67 • Stora Enso Oulu Oy Finland 5.66 • Consolidated financial Stora Enso Veitsiluoto Oy Finland 5.19 • statements Stora Enso Amsterdam B.V. Netherlands 4.51 • Stora Enso Skog AB ◊ Sweden 3.00 • Notes to the Consolidated Stora Enso Fors AB ◊ Sweden 2.98 • financial statements Stora Enso Poland S.A. +/◊ Poland 2.77 • Stora Enso (Guangxi) Packaging Company Ltd. (80.1%) ◊ China 2.75 • Parent Company Stora Enso Stora Enso Wood Products GmbH Austria 2.72 • Oyj financial statements Stora Enso Maxau GmbH Germany 2.58 • Stora Enso Langerbrugge NV Belgium 2.46 • Notes to the parent company Stora Enso Publication Papers Oy Ltd Finland 2.30 • financial statements Stora Enso Ingerois Oy + Finland 1.98 • Sydved AB (66.7%) ◊ Sweden 1.94 • Signatures for the financial Stora Enso Wood Products Oy Ltd + Finland 1.72 • statements Stora Enso Sachsen GmbH Germany 1.54 • Financials Stora Enso Timber AB ◊ Sweden 1.29 • Auditor’s report OOO Stora Enso Packaging BB ◊ Russia 1.29 • Stora Enso Eesti AS + Estonia 1.22 • Stora Enso in capital markets Stora Enso Wood Products Zdirec s.r.o. ◊ Czech Republic 1.02 • Dongguan Stora Enso Inpac Packaging Co. Ltd ◊ China 1.02 • Stora Enso as a taxpayer Stora Enso Narew Sp.z.o.o. +/◊ Poland 0.95 • Stora Enso Australia Pty Ltd ◊ Australia 0.93 • Capacities by mill in 2020 Stora Enso WP Bad St. Leonhard GmbH Austria 0.90 • Stora Enso Packaging AB ◊ Sweden 0.89 • Information for shareholders Stora Enso Packaging Oy + Finland 0.82 • Stora Enso Wood Products Sp.z.o.o. ◊ Poland 0.66 • Stora Enso North American Sales, Inc. +/◊ USA 0.64 • Stora Enso Timber Deutschland GmbH Germany 0.57 • Stora Enso Bioenergi AB ◊ Sweden 0.56 • Stora Enso Wood Products Planá s.r.o. ◊ Czech Republic 0.47 • Governance Stora Enso Inpac Packaging Co. Ltd ◊ China 0.43 • Guangxi Stora Enso Forestry Co Ltd (89.5%) ◊ China 0.41 • Stora Enso Wood Products d.o.o. Koper Slovenia 0.37 • AS Stora Enso Latvija Latvia 0.36 • 73 Stora Enso 2019: Financials – Notes to the Consolidated financial statements – Note 31 Strategy Packaging Annual Report 2019 Country Sales % Consumer Board Solutions Biomaterials Wood Products Paper Other Stora Enso Bois SAS France 0.35 • UAB Stora Enso Lietuva Lithuania 0.34 • Stora Enso Huatai (Shandong) Paper Co Ltd2 ◊ China 0.30 • Stora Enso Timber DIY Products B.V. Netherlands 0.29 • Stora Enso UK Ltd ◊ UK 0.26 • • Stora Enso Packaging SIA Latvia 0.19 • Stora Enso Packaging UAB Lithuania 0.18 • Financials Stora Enso WP HV s.r.o. ◊ Czech Republic 0.18 • OOO Setnovo ◊ Russia 0.15 • Stora Enso Paper GmbH Germany 0.13 • Stora Enso in 2019 Stora Enso Packaging AS Estonia 0.13 • DanFiber A/S (51%) ◊ Denmark 0.13 • Report of the VLAR Papier NV Belgium 0.11 • Board of Directors Sustainability 1 Stora Enso Skoghall AB was merged to Stora Enso AB in 2019. 2 Business operations of Stora Enso Huatai (Shandong) Paper Co Ltd (60.0%) were divested during 2019. Consolidated financial statements The following is a list of the Company’s joint operations. The Company holds a 50% interest in joint Note 31 Related party transactions Notes to the Consolidated operations which are consolidated into the Group’s financial statements. The countries operating outside the euro area are indicated by “◊”. Sales of the joint operations occur via subsidiaries. Balances and transactions between the Group and its subsidiaries and joint operations, which are financial statements classified as related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note. Joint operations The Group has classified Solidium Oy as a related party. This is entirely owned by the State of Finland, Parent Company Stora Enso Consumer Packaging Wood and owned 10.7% of Stora Enso shares and 27.3% of all votes on 31 December 2019. The group has Oyj financial statements Country Board Solutions Biomaterials Products Paper Other applied an exemption, as stated in IAS 24 paragraph 25, not to disclose transactions and outstanding Montes del Plata balances with government-related entities. Notes to the parent company (50%) ◊ Uruguay • The Group has classified FAM AB as a related party. FAM AB owned 10.2% of Stora Enso shares and 27.3% financial statements Veracel Celulose of all votes on 31 December 2019. During 2019, the group has sold 2% of shares of Swetree Technologies AB, SA (50%) ◊ Brazil • an equity accounted investment, to FAM AB for EUR 0.5 million in an arm’s length based transaction. Signatures for the financial The key management personnel of the Group are the members of the Group Leadership Team and the statements Board of Directors. The compensation of key management personnel is presented in Note 7 Board and executive remuneration. Financials Auditor’s report In the ordinary course of business, the Group engages in transactions on commercial terms with equity accounted investments and other related parties that are not any more favourable than those that would Stora Enso in capital markets be available to other third parties – with the exception of Veracel. Stora Enso intends to continue with transactions on a similar basis with its equity accounted investments, further details of which are shown in Stora Enso as a taxpayer Note 13 Equity accounted investments. The Group’s principal subsidiary companies and joint operations are listed in Note 30 Principal subsidiaries and joint operations. Capacities by mill in 2020 Information for shareholders Governance 74 Stora Enso 2019: Financials – Notes to the Consolidated financial statements – Note 32 Strategy Paper for recycling Equity per share Annual Report 2019 The Group owns non-controlling interests in several paper recyclers, from which paper for recycling is As at 31 December purchased at market prices. 2019 2018 Shareholders’ equity, EUR million 7 429 6 714 Forest assets and wood procurement Market value, EUR million 10 328 8 123 The Group has a 41% interest in Tornator with the remaining 59% being held mainly by Finnish institutional investors. Stora Enso has long-term purchase contracts with the Tornator Group for approximately 2 million Number of A and R shares 788 619 987 788 619 987 cubic metres of wood annually at market prices, and in 2019 purchases of 2 (2) million cubic metres came to EUR 67 (EUR 78) million. Share awards 768 706 1 056 648 Financials The group procures wood from Kopparfors Skogar AB, a company which is completely owned Diluted number of shares 789 388 693 789 676 635 by FAM AB and which was founded during 2019. In 2019 the purchases from Kopparfors Skogar AB amounted to EUR 6 million and the sales of services by Stora Enso to the said related party amounted to Basic Shareholders’ Equity per Share, EUR 9.42 8.51 Stora Enso in 2019 EUR 4 million. At the end of 2019 the group had EUR 1 million of open payables to and EUR 1 million of Diluted Shareholders’ Equity per Share, EUR 9.41 8.50 open receivables from Kopparfors Skogar AB. Dividend per Share Paid/Declared, EUR 0.50 0.50 Report of the Board of Directors Stevedoring Sustainability Market Value per Share, EUR The Group owns 34.4% of shares in Steveco Oy, a Finnish company engaged in loading and unloading A shares 13.55 11.05 Consolidated financial vessels. The other shareholders in Steveco are UPM-Kymmene, Finnlines, Ahlström Capital, and R shares 12.97 10.09 statements Myllykoski. The stevedoring services are provided by Steveco at market prices and in 2019 amounted to EUR 25 (EUR 24) million. Notes to the Consolidated financial statements Note 32 Earnings per share and equity per share Parent Company Stora Enso Oyj financial statements Accounting principles Notes to the parent company Basic earnings per share, attributable to the owners of the parent company, are calculated by dividing financial statements the net profit attributable to shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding ordinary shares purchased by the group and held as treasury shares. Diluted Signatures for the financial earnings per share are calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of ordinary shares plus the statements diluted effect of all potential dilutive ordinary shares, such as shares from share-based payments. Financials Auditor’s report Earnings per share Year Ended 31 December Stora Enso in capital markets 2019 2018 Net profit for the period attributable to the owners of the parent, EUR million 880 1 013 Stora Enso as a taxpayer Total comprehensive income attributable to the owners of the parent, EUR million 1 113 1 025 Capacities by mill in 2020 Weighted average number of A and R shares 788 619 987 788 619 987 Weighted average number of share awards 912 677 1 262 891 Information for shareholders Weighted diluted number of shares 789 532 664 789 882 878 Basic Earnings per Share, EUR 1.12 1.28 Diluted Earnings per Share, EUR 1.12 1.28 Total Recognised Income and Expense per Share, EUR 1.41 1.30 Governance 75 Parent Company Stora Enso Oyj financial statements Stora Enso 2019: Financials – Parent Company Stora Enso Oyj financial statements Strategy Annual Report 2019 Parent company income statement Parent company statement of financial position Year ended 31 December As at 31 December EUR million Note 2019 2018 EUR million Note 2019 2018 Financials Sales 2 2 641 2 776 Assets Changes in inventories of finished goods and work in progress + / -15 25 Non-Current Assets Stora Enso in 2019 Production for own use 1 1 Intangible assets 12 79 90 Other operating income 3 191 192 Tangible assets 12 883 840 Report of the Materials and services 4 -1 899 -1 926 Investments 13 7 934 7 988 Board of Directors Sustainability Personnel expenses 5 -229 -224 Non-Current Assets Total 8 897 8 918 Depreciation and impairment 6 -118 -159 Consolidated financial Other operating expenses 7 -478 -471 Current Assets statements 2 546 2 562 Inventories 14 295 326 Operating Profit 95 213 Short-term receivables 15 935 555 Notes to the Consolidated Financial income and expenses 9 189 1 Financial securities 16 276 397 financial statements Profit before Appropriations and Taxes 284 215 Cash in hand and at bank 506 471 Appropriations 10 -53 9 Total Current Assets 2 012 1 750 Parent Company Stora Enso Profit for the Period 230 223 Total Assets 10 909 10 668 Oyj financial statements Equity and Liabilities Notes to the parent company financial statements Equity 17 Share capital 1 342 1 342 Signatures for the financial Share premium 3 639 3 639 statements Fair value reserve -10 -10 Financials Invested non-restricted equity fund 633 633 Auditor’s report Retained earnings 456 627 Profit for the period 230 223 Stora Enso in capital markets Total Equity 6 291 6 454 Stora Enso as a taxpayer Accumulated Appropriations 18 254 200 Obligatory Provisions 19 28 26 Capacities by mill in 2020 Liabilities Information for shareholders Non-current liabilities 21 2 195 1 464 Current liabilities 22 2 141 2 523 Total Liabilities 4 336 3 987 Total Equity and Liabilities 10 909 10 668 Governance 76 Parent company cash flow statement Stora Enso 2019: Financials – Parent Company Stora Enso Oyj financial statements Strategy Annual Report 2019 Year ended 31 December EUR million 2019 2018 Cash Provided by Operating Activities Profit for the period 230 223 Adjustments and reversal of non-cash items: Appropriations 53 -9 Depreciation according to plan and impairment 118 159 Financials Unrealised foreign exchange gains and losses Other non-cash items 57 0 6 -3 Financial income and expenses -189 -1 Stora Enso in 2019 Change in working capital: Increase(-)/decrease(+) Report of the in current non-interest-bearing receivables 96 -38 Board of Directors Increase(-)/decrease(+) in inventories 31 -79 Sustainability Increase(+)/decrease(-) Consolidated financial in current non-interest-bearing liabilities -94 30 Cash flow from operating activities before financial items and taxes 303 288 statements Interest received from operating activities 30 25 Interest paid from operating activities -73 -64 Notes to the Consolidated Dividends received from operating activities 267 76 financial statements Other financial items, net 8 -35 Direct taxes paid -2 -1 Parent Company Stora Enso Cash Provided by Operating Activities 533 289 Oyj financial statements Net Cash Provided by Investing Activities Notes to the parent company Investments in tangible and intangible assets -155 -185 financial statements Capital gains from sale of tangible and intangible assets 3 6 Investments in subsidiary shares and other capital contributions -2 -61 Signatures for the financial Proceeds from disposal of subsidiary shares and other repayment of capital 7 2 statements Proceeds from disposal of other investments 2 1 Financials Payments of non-current loan receivables -843 -345 Auditor’s report Proceeds from non-current loan receivables 371 350 Net Cash Provided by Investing Activities -617 -232 Stora Enso in capital markets Cash Flow from Financing Activities Stora Enso as a taxpayer Proceeds from (issue of) long-term liabilities 801 299 Proceeds from (payment of) long-term liabilities -101 -226 Capacities by mill in 2020 Change in short-term borrowings -309 -128 Information for shareholders Dividends paid -394 -323 Cash Flow from Financing Activities -3 -378 Net Change in Cash and Cash Equivalents -87 -321 Translation differences 1 -1 Cash and cash equivalents at start of year 868 1 190 Cash and Cash Equivalents at year end 782 868 Governance Cash and Cash Equivalents at year end includes: Financial securities 276 397 Cash in hand and at bank 506 471 Cash and Cash Equivalents total 782 868 77 Notes to the parent company financial statements Stora Enso 2019: Financials – Notes to the parent company financial statements Strategy Annual Report 2019 Note 1 Accounting Principles Intangible and tangible assets and depreciation is obligated, are recognised in the income statement according to their The balance sheet value of intangible and tangible assets is their nature and in obligatory provisions on the balance sheet. The financial statements of Stora Enso Oyj have been prepared in direct acquisition cost less depreciation according to plan and Financials accordance with the Finnish Accounting Act and other current rules any impairment. Depreciation according to plan is recognised for Emission rights and regulations concerning financial statements in Finland. intangible and tangible assets, based on their expected useful lives. During 2019, the company was issued 0.4 million tonnes of free emission allowances in accordance with the EU Emissions Trading Stora Enso in 2019 Derivative contracts Directive. Emission allowances are recognised through a net cash cost Depreciation is based on the following useful lives: Stora Enso is exposed to several financial market risks that the Group Buildings and structures 10–50 years basis, meaning that the difference between the actual emissions and Report of the is responsible for managing under policies approved by the Board the emission allowances received is recognised through profit or loss if Production machinery and equipment 10–20 years Board of Directors Sustainability of Directors. The objective is to have cost-effective funding in Group the actual emissions are larger than the emission allowances received. Light machinery and equipment 3–5 years companies and to manage financial risks using financial instruments During the financial period, the emissions emitted were 0.5 million Intellectual property rights 3–20 years Consolidated financial in order to decrease earnings volatility. The main exposures for tonnes. The emission rights purchased during the financial period are statements the Group are interest rate risk, currency risk, funding risk and recognised in other operating expenses, and the emission rights sold commodity price risk, especially for fibre and energy. The parent No depreciation is recognised for land and water areas. during the financial period are recognised in other operating income. Notes to the Consolidated company manages these risks centrally in the Group. The Group’s At the end of the financial period, the market value of the emission financial statements risk management principles are presented in more detail in Note 24 Inventories rights was EUR 24.48 per tonne. Financial Risk Management to the consolidated financial statements. Inventories are measured at acquisition cost or at net realisable value Derivative contracts are measured at fair value on the balance sheet. if lower. Acquisition cost is determined using the FIFO method or Parent Company Stora Enso Derivatives with external counterparties that are subject to hedge the weighted average cost method. The cost of finished goods and Oyj financial statements accounting are recognised as financial assets and liabilities at fair work in progress comprises raw materials, direct labour, depreciation value through the income statement in the same manner as the parent and other direct costs, as well as the related production overhead. Notes to the parent company company’s derivatives with other Group companies as counterparties. Net realisable value is the estimated selling price less the costs of financial statements The parent company’s derivative contracts that are used to hedge the completion and sale. parent company’s own cash flow are measured at fair value, and the Signatures for the financial change in fair value (effective part) is recognised, in line with hedge Leasing statements accounting principles, in the fair value reserve in equity on the balance Leasing payments are recognised in other operating expenses. sheet, while the ineffective part is recognised in the parent company’s The remaining leasing payments under leasing agreements are Financials Auditor’s report income statement. The fair value of derivatives not included in hedge presented in Note 23 Commitments and Contingencies. accounting is entered immediately in the income statement. Stora Enso in capital markets Interest income and expenses related to derivatives that are used Expenditure on research and development to manage the interest rate risk are allocated over the contract period Expenditure on research and development is recognised as an Stora Enso as a taxpayer and are used to adjust interest expenses related to hedged loans. expense for the financial period. Option premiums are recognised as advance payments until the Capacities by mill in 2020 options mature. Income taxes With regard to derivatives, more information about the The tax expense on the income statement includes income measurement principles, fair values and changes in fair value is taxes based on the taxable profit for the financial period and tax Information for shareholders provided in Note 24. adjustments for previous periods. The parent company does not recognise deferred tax assets and liabilities, excluding derivatives, in Pensions its financial statements. Deferred tax assets and liabilities that can be Statutory pension security is arranged through employment pension recognised on the balance sheet are presented in Note 20. insurance companies outside the Group. Some employees have additional pension security through life insurance companies outside Obligatory provisions the Group. Pension contributions are allocated in accordance with Future costs and losses that no longer generate corresponding Governance performance-based salaries and wages for the financial period. income, to which the company is committed or by which the company 78 Stora Enso 2019: Financials – Notes to the parent company financial statements Strategy Note 2 Net sales by division and market area Note 5 Personnel expenses and average number of employees Annual Report 2019 Year ended 31 December Year ended 31 December EUR million 2019 2018 EUR million 2019 2018 By division Salaries and fees 189 185 Consumer Board 1 094 1 124 Statutory employer costs Packaging Solutions 384 414 Pensions 33 33 Biomaterials 241 334 Other personnel costs 6 7 Other 923 904 Total 229 224 Financials Total 2 641 2 776 Distribution by region Remuneration for the CEO and the members of the Board of Directors Stora Enso in 2019 Remuneration for the CEO and the members of the Board of Directors is presented in Note 7 to the Finland 1 258 1 340 Other Europe 925 962 Consolidated financial statements. Report of the North and South America 121 92 Board of Directors Sustainability Asia and Oceania 263 298 Pension liabilities for the CEO Pension liabilities for the CEO are presented in Note 7 to the Consolidated financial statements. Africa 29 31 Consolidated financial Others 45 53 statements Receivables from management Total 2 641 2 776 There were no loan receivables from the company’s management. Notes to the Consolidated Average number of employees 2019 2018 financial statements Number of employees during the financial period 3 021 2 930 Note 3 Other operating income Parent Company Stora Enso Year ended 31 December Oyj financial statements EUR million 2019 2018 Note 6 Depreciation and impairment Rent and equivalents 4 5 Notes to the parent company Gains on sale of fixed assets 2 3 Year ended 31 December financial statements Insurance compensation 2 0 EUR million 2019 2018 Production and maintenance services 4 8 Depreciation according to plan 115 159 Signatures for the financial Subsidies, grants and equivalents 2 2 Impairment of fixed assets 3 0 statements Administration services 141 133 Total 118 159 Proceeds from sales of emission rights 17 7 Financials Depreciation and amortisation on each item in the statement of financial position is included under intangible and tangible assets. Auditor’s report Other operating income 20 33 Total 191 192 Stora Enso in capital markets Note 7 Other operating expenses Year ended 31 December Stora Enso as a taxpayer Note 4 Materials and services EUR million 2019 2018 Product freight 149 159 Capacities by mill in 2020 Year ended 31 December Sales commissions 41 40 EUR million 2019 2018 Rental costs 13 15 Information for shareholders Materials and supplies Administration and office services 209 207 Purchases during the period 1 376 1 449 Insurance premiums 7 6 Change in inventories +/15 -60 Other personnel expenses 20 23 External services 508 537 Public and other relations 3 3 Total Materials and Services 1 899 1 926 Emission rights expenses 18 8 Other operating expenses 16 10 Governance Total 478 471 79 Stora Enso 2019: Financials – Notes to the parent company financial statements Strategy Note 8 Auditors’ fees Note 11 Environmental expenses Annual Report 2019 Year ended 31 December Year ended 31 December EUR million 2019 2018 EUR million 2019 2018 Audit fees 1 1 Materials and services 35 36 Total 1 1 Personnel expenses 2 3 Depreciation and impairment 10 13 Total 48 51 Note 9 Financial income and expenses Financials Year ended 31 December Air quality protection 12 14 Wastewater treatment 22 22 EUR million 2019 2018 Waste management 10 9 Stora Enso in 2019 Dividend income Soil and groundwater protection 0 1 From Group companies 253 65 Other environmental protection measures 3 5 Report of the From equity accounted investments 14 12 Total 48 51 Board of Directors Total 267 76 Sustainability Consolidated financial Interest income from non-current investments statements From Group companies 35 24 Note 12 Intangible and tangible assets Total 35 24 Intangible assets Notes to the Consolidated Advance financial statements Other interest and financial income Other nonpayments and From Group companies 1 2 Intellectual current acquisitions in EUR million property rights expenditure progress Total Parent Company Stora Enso From others 14 13 Acquisition cost 1 Jan 168 12 26 206 Oyj financial statements Total 15 16 Increases 6 0 2 8 Total Financial Income 317 116 Decreases -3 -4 0 -8 Notes to the parent company Reclassification 5 4 -9 0 financial statements Interest and other financial expenses Acquisition cost 31 Dec 176 11 18 206 To Group companies -1 -1 Accumulated depreciation Signatures for the financial Other financial expenses -111 -113 and impairment 1 Jan -108 -7 0 -116 statements Total -112 -114 Accumulated depreciation on decreases and reclassifications 3 4 0 8 Financials Auditor’s report Impairment on investments Depreciation for the period -13 -6 0 -19 Impairment on investments in non-current assets -17 0 Accumulated depreciation 31 Dec -118 -9 0 -127 Stora Enso in capital markets Total Financial Expenses -129 -114 Book value on 31 December 2019 58 3 18 79 Book value on 31 December 2018 60 4 26 90 Stora Enso as a taxpayer Total Financial Income and Expenses 189 1 Capacities by mill in 2020 The item “Financial Income and Expenses” includes exchange rate gains/losses (net) -27 -31 Information for shareholders Note 10 Appropriations Year ended 31 December EUR million 2019 2018 Difference between depreciation according to plan Governance and depreciation recognised in taxation -54 9 Group contributions received 1 0 Total Appropriations -53 9 80 Stora Enso 2019: Financials – Notes to the parent company financial statements Strategy Tangible assets Note 13 Non-current investments in shares and loan receivables Annual Report 2019 Advance payLand and Buildings Other ments and Loan water and Plant and tangible acquisitions Loan receivables EUR million areas structures equipment assets in progress Total Shares receivables Shares in from in Group from Group Associated Associated Other Other Total Acquisition cost 1 Jan 18 506 2 266 178 121 3 089 EUR million companies companies companies companies shares receivables Investments Increases 0 9 90 0 45 144 Acquisition cost Decreases 0 -7 -2 -2 0 -11 1 Jan 6 236 1 520 37 2 181 51 8 028 Reclassification 0 16 101 1 -118 0 Increases 2 774 0 0 0 21 797 Financials Acquisition cost 31 Dec Accumulated depreciation and 18 524 2 455 177 49 3 223 Decreases -7 -839 0 0 -2 -3 -851 Acquisition cost impairment 1 Jan 0 -363 -1 729 -160 0 -2 252 31 Dec 6 231 1 455 37 2 180 68 7 973 Stora Enso in 2019 Accumulated depreciation on Impairments 1 Jan -38 0 0 0 -1 0 -39 decreases and reclassifications 0 7 1 2 0 10 Impairments Depreciation for the period 0 -12 -80 -4 0 -96 Report of the 31 Dec -38 0 0 0 -1 0 -39 Impairment for the period 0 0 -3 0 0 -3 Book value on 31 Board of Directors Sustainability Accumulated depreciation 31 Dec 0 -368 -1 811 -162 0 -2 341 December 2019 6 193 1 455 37 2 178 68 7 934 Increase in value 1 Jan 2 0 0 0 0 2 Book value on 31 Consolidated financial December 2018 6 199 1 520 37 2 180 51 7 988 Increase in value 31 Dec 2 0 0 0 0 2 statements Book value on 31 December 2019 20 156 644 15 49 883 Book value on 31 December 2018 20 143 538 18 121 840 Notes to the Consolidated financial statements Note 14 Inventories Production plant and equipment Book value on 31 December 2019 623 As at 31 December Parent Company Stora Enso Book value on 31 December 2018 514 EUR million 2019 2018 Oyj financial statements Materials and supplies 154 169 Tangible assets includes capitalized interest costs EUR 2 million (EUR 2 million in 2018). Work in progress 7 6 Notes to the parent company Finished goods 121 138 financial statements Advance payments and acquisitions in progress Other inventories 13 13 Intangible Buildings and Plant and Other tangible Total 295 326 Signatures for the financial EUR million assets structures equipment assets Total statements Acquisition cost 1 Jan 26 12 108 1 147 Increases 2 0 44 1 47 Financials Auditor’s report Reclassification -9 -12 -105 -1 -126 Acquisition cost 31 Dec 18 0 48 1 67 Stora Enso in capital markets Stora Enso as a taxpayer As at 31 December EUR million 2019 2018 Capacities by mill in 2020 Capitalised Environmental Expenditure Acquisition cost 1 Jan 83 76 Information for shareholders Increases 1 Jan 31 Dec 15 19 Depreciation and impairment 1 Jan 31 Dec -10 -13 Acquisition Cost 31 Dec 87 83 Air quality protection 50 50 Wastewater treatment 22 26 Waste management 3 4 Governance Soil and groundwater protection 11 2 Noise and vibration prevention 1 1 Total 87 83 In 2019 and 2018, no environmentally based fines, charges or compensation were paid, and no subsidies or grants were received for environmental protection. 81 Stora Enso 2019: Financials – Notes to the parent company financial statements Strategy Note 15 Short-term receivables Note 16 Financial securities Annual Report 2019 As at 31 December As at 31 December EUR million 2019 2018 EUR million 2019 2018 Short-term loan receivables From Group companies 86 82 Receivables from Group companies From others 190 315 Loan receivables 583 69 Total 276 397 Commodity derivative receivables 5 0 Interest receivables 28 40 Financials Total 615 109 Note 17 Shareholders’ equity Receivables from others Stora Enso in 2019 As at 31 December Loan receivables 3 0 EUR million 2019 2018 Commodity derivative receivables 1 36 Report of the Restricted Shareholders’ Equity Other receivables 15 13 Board of Directors Share capital 1 Jan 1 342 1 342 Sustainability Interest receivables 4 5 Share capital 31 Dec 1 342 1 342 Total 22 54 Consolidated financial statements Total current interest-bearing receivables 637 163 Share premium fund 1 Jan 3 639 3 639 Share premium fund 31 Dec 3 639 3 639 Notes to the Consolidated Current Non-Interest-Bearing Receivables financial statements Fair value reserve 1 Jan -10 1 Increase (-) / Decrease (+) 0 -11 Receivables from Group companies Parent Company Stora Enso Trade receivables 103 117 Fair value reserve 31 Dec -10 -10 Oyj financial statements Total Restricted Equity 4 971 4 971 Other receivables 1 49 Change in share capital and number of shares are presented in Note 18 to the Commodity derivative receivables 1 5 Notes to the parent company Accrued income 0 4 Consolidated financial statements. financial statements Total 104 175 Non-Restricted Shareholders’ Equity Invested unrestricted equity reserve 1 Jan 633 633 Signatures for the financial Receivables from others Invested unrestricted equity reserve 31 Dec 633 633 statements Trade receivables 142 178 Financials Deferred tax assets 2 2 Retained earnings 1 Jan 850 950 Auditor’s report Other receivables 21 11 Dividend distribution -394 -323 Accrued income 28 26 Retained earnings 31 Dec 456 627 Stora Enso in capital markets Total 194 217 Stora Enso may enter into factoring agreements to sell trade receivables in order to accelerate cash conversion. Nominally, such agreements Profit for the period 230 223 Stora Enso as a taxpayer led to the nominal derecognition of EUR 51.4 million (EUR 48.1 million in 2018) by the end of the financial period. The continuing involvement of Total Non-Restricted Equity 1 319 1 483 Stora Enso in the sold receivables was estimated as being insignificant due to the non-recourse nature of the factoring arrangements involved. Total Shareholders’ Equity 6 291 6 454 Capacities by mill in 2020 As at 31 December Calculation of Distributable Equity 31 Dec Information for shareholders EUR million 2019 2018 Fair value reserve 31 Dec -10 -10 Total current non-interest-bearing receivables 298 392 Invested unrestricted equity reserve 31 Dec 633 633 Total current receivables 935 555 Retained earnings 31 Dec 456 627 Profit for the period 230 223 Significant accruals Total 1 310 1 473 Other accruals from Group 0 4 Governance Tax-equivalent receivables 15 14 Advances paid 5 2 Other accruals 9 10 Total 28 30 82 Stora Enso 2019: Financials – Notes to the parent company financial statements Strategy Note 18 Accumulated appropriations Note 22 Current liabilities Annual Report 2019 As at 31 December As at 31 December EUR million 2019 2018 EUR million 2019 2018 Depreciation difference Current Interest-Bearing Liabilities Intellectual property rights 2 2 Liabilities to Group companies Other non-current expenditure -1 0 Other loans 1 329 1 458 Buildings and structures 25 26 Commodity derivative liabilities 1 35 Plant and equipment 227 170 Total 1 330 1 493 Financials Other tangible assets 1 2 Total 254 200 Liabilities to others Other loans 255 311 Stora Enso in 2019 Commodity derivative liabilities 5 2 Interest due 22 33 Report of the Note 19 Obligatory provisions Bonds 0 219 Board of Directors Sustainability As at 31 December Loans from credit institutions 99 4 EUR million 2019 2018 Total 381 568 Consolidated financial Restructuring provisions 3 3 Total current interest-bearing liabilities 1 712 2 061 statements Environmental provisions 21 22 Other provisions 4 1 Current non-interest-bearing liabilities Notes to the Consolidated Liabilities to Group companies Total 28 26 financial statements Trade payables 89 62 Commodity derivative liabilities 1 3 Parent Company Stora Enso Accrued liabilities and deferred income 1 1 Oyj financial statements Note 20 Deferred tax liabilities and receivables Total 92 66 Notes to the parent company As at 31 December Liabilities to equity accounted investments financial statements EUR million 2019 2018 Trade payables 37 30 Deferred tax liability due to depreciation difference -35 -25 Total 37 30 Signatures for the financial Deferred tax receivable due to derivatives 2 2 statements Deferred tax receivable due to loss 61 61 Liabilities to others Deferred tax receivable due to provisions 5 4 Financials Advances received 1 2 Auditor’s report Deferred tax receivables and liabilities due to other temporary differences -9 -13 Trade payables 208 256 Total deferred tax receivable 24 29 Other loans 14 28 Stora Enso in capital markets Deferred tax liabilities and receivables excluding derivatives have not been recognised on the balance sheet. Accrued liabilities and deferred income 77 80 Total 301 366 Stora Enso as a taxpayer Total Current Non-Interest-Bearing Liabilities 429 462 Capacities by mill in 2020 Note 21 Non-current liabilities Total Current Liabilities 2 141 2 523 As at 31 December Substantial Accrued Liabilities and Deferred Income Information for shareholders EUR million 2019 2018 Payroll payments accrued 46 48 Non-current liabilities Annual discounts 17 17 Bonds 1 983 1 308 Other accrued liabilities and deferred income 15 16 Loans from credit institutions 212 157 Total 79 81 Total 2 195 1 464 Liabilities with maturities later than five years Governance Bonds 1 109 1 008 Total 1 109 1 008 Specifications of Bond loans are presented in Note 26 Interest-bearing liabilities in Consolidated financial statements. 83 Stora Enso 2019: Financials – Notes to the parent company financial statements Strategy Note 23 Commitments and contingencies • Commodity contract fair values are computed with reference to quoted market prices on futures Annual Report 2019 exchanges or other reliable market sources. As at 31 December • Interest rate swaps fair values are calculated using a discounted cash flow method. EUR million 2019 2018 For Group debt Fair value hierarchy Guarantees 1 291 1 676 Stora Enso uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of financial For joint venture debt instruments by valuation technique: Guarantees 212 284 • Level 1: quoted (unadjusted) prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities; On behalf of Group companies • Level 2: other techniques, for which all inputs that have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are Financials Guarantees 4 4 observable, either directly or indirectly; On behalf of others • Level 3: techniques which use inputs that have a significant effect on the recorded fair values that are Guarantees 0 16 not based on observable market data. Stora Enso in 2019 Other commitments, own Leasing commitments, in next 12 months 7 8 The parent company’s derivatives are classified as Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy. Report of the Leasing commitments, after next 12 months 10 16 Board of Directors Nominal and fair values of derivative instruments Sustainability Mortgages 2 2 Lease commitments 6 6 As at 31 December 2019 Consolidated financial Nominal Positive fair Negative fair Fair values, Other commitments 1 4 statements Total 1 533 2 017 EUR million values values values Net Notes to the Consolidated Mortgages 2 2 Cash flow hedges entered on behalf of the financial statements parent company and its subsidiaries, for which Guarantees 1 507 1 981 hedge accounting is applied in target companies Leasing commitments 17 24 Parent Company Stora Enso Currency forwards 1 401 13 -14 -1 Lease commitments 6 6 Oyj financial statements Currency options 2 697 16 -17 -1 Other commitments 1 4 Commodity contracts 133 6 -6 0 Total 1 533 2 017 Notes to the parent company Interest rate swaps 533 0 -12 -11 Non-hedge accounted derivatives financial statements Currency forwards 364 3 -1 2 Contingent liabilities Signatures for the financial Commodity contracts 0 0 0 0 Stora Enso Oyj has implemented significant restructuring measures in recent years. These measures Total 5 127 38 -49 -11 statements have included divestments of business operations and production units, as well as mill closures. These transactions include a risk of possible environmental or other obligations, the existence of which would of which against subsidiaries 1 968 19 -15 4 Financials be confirmed only by the occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more uncertain future events not wholly of which against external parties 3 159 19 -34 -15 Auditor’s report within the control of the Group. A provision has been recognised for obligations for which the related Stora Enso in capital markets amount can be estimated reliably. Stora Enso Oyj is party to legal proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of business and primarily As at 31 December 2018 Stora Enso as a taxpayer involve claims arising out of commercial law. The company management does not believe that such Nominal Positive fair Negative fair Fair values, processes as a whole, before any insurance compensation, would have significant impacts on the EUR million values values values Net company’s financial position or profit from operations. Some of the most significant legal proceedings are Capacities by mill in 2020 described in Note 29 to the consolidated financial statements. Cash flow hedges entered on behalf of the Information for shareholders parent company and its subsidiaries, for which hedge accounting is applied in target companies Note 24 Financial instruments Currency forwards 2 401 19 -21 -1 Currency options 2 463 24 -28 -4 Valuation of derivatives Commodity contracts 147 35 -36 -1 The fair value is defined as the amount at which a derivative instrument could be exchanged in an orderly Interest rate swaps 150 0 -6 -6 transaction between market participants at the measurement date. The fair values ​​of such instruments are Non-hedge accounted derivatives determined on the following basis: Governance Currency forwards 1 555 8 -9 -1 • Currency forward contract fair values are calculated using forward exchange rates on the reporting date. Commodity contracts 2 1 -1 0 • Currency option contract fair values are calculated using reporting date market rates together with common option pricing models. Total 6 718 87 -101 -14 of which against subsidiaries 3 188 35 -49 -15 of which against external parties 3 530 53 -52 1 84 Stora Enso 2019: Financials – Notes to the parent company financial statements Strategy Fair value reserve Note 25 Related party transactions Annual Report 2019 The net amount of the parent company’s unrealised cash flow hedge losses in the fair value reserve was 31 December EUR 9.5 million, which was related to currency and interest rate derivatives. Currency and interest rate derivatives also include a loss of EUR 0.2 million related to the time value of options. These unrealised losses EUR million 2019 2018 are recognised in the income statement upon the maturity of the hedging contracts. The longest hedging Related party transactions with associated companies and joint ventures: contract will mature in 2027. However, the majority of the contracts are expected to mature during 2020. Purchase of materials and supplies during the year 10 57 The ineffective portions of hedges are recognised as adjustments to revenue or materials and services Non-current loan receivables at year end 2 2 according to the hedged item. In 2019, a loss of EUR 0.2 million was booked as an adjustment to sales due to ineffectiveness from cash flow hedges. Derivatives used in currency cash flow hedges are mainly forward Trade payables at year end 37 30 Financials contracts and options. Swaps are mainly used in commodity hedges and interest rate cash flow hedges. During 2019 Stora Enso Oyj gave a significant additional loan to Stora Enso Ab for the purchase of Bergvik Skog Ab shares and the repayment of the transaction financing loan. Ordinary commercial terms were used in the loan agreement. The Group’s principles for related party transactions are presented in Note 31 to the Consolidated financial statements. Hedge gains and losses in operating profit Stora Enso in 2019 Year ended 31 December EUR million 2019 2018 Report of the Cash flow hedge accounted derivatives Board of Directors Sustainability Currency hedges -13 2 Commodity hedges -1 6 Consolidated financial Total -14 8 statements As adjustments to sales -13 2 As adjustments to materials and services -1 6 Notes to the Consolidated Items realised from the fair value reserve financial statements that are recognised in the income statement -14 8 Net gains/losses from cash flow hedges -14 8 Parent Company Stora Enso Oyj financial statements Hedge gains and losses in financial items Year ended 31 December Notes to the parent company EUR million 2019 2018 financial statements Non-hedge accounted derivatives Currency derivatives -14 -20 Signatures for the financial Net losses in financial items -14 -20 statements Financials Auditor’s report Sensitivity of currency derivatives to strengthening of EUR 31 December 2019 Stora Enso in capital markets EUR million SEK USD GBP Currency change against EUR -5.0% -5.0% -5.0% Stora Enso as a taxpayer Currency derivatives hedging cash flow next 12 months in EUR 0 158 16 Estimated effect on fair value reserve in EUR 0 6 1 Capacities by mill in 2020 Sensitivity of commodity derivatives to price risk Information for shareholders A 10% increase or decrease in the price of energy and raw materials would cause an estimated EUR 0.6 million change to the fair value of hedging contracts for energy and raw materials. Most of these changes in fair value are entered directly in the fair value reserve until the contracts mature and the result is entered in the income statement. More detailed information about financial instruments are presented in Note 24 Financial risk management, Note 25 Fair values and Note 27 Derivatives to the Consolidated financial statements. Governance 85 Signatures for the financial statements Stora Enso 2019: Financials – Signatures for the financial statements Strategy Annual Report 2019 There have been no material changes in the Parent Company’s financial position since 31 December 2019. Financials The liquidity of the Parent Company remains good and the proposed dividend does not risk the solvency of the Company. Stora Enso in 2019 Helsinki, 29 January 2020 Report of the Board of Directors Sustainability Jorma Eloranta Hans Stråberg Consolidated financial Chair Vice Chair statements Notes to the Consolidated Elisabeth Fleuriot Hock Goh financial statements Parent Company Stora Enso Oyj financial statements Mikko Helander Christiane Kuehne Notes to the parent company financial statements Antti Mäkinen Richard Nilsson Signatures for the financial statements Göran Sandberg Financials Auditor’s report Stora Enso in capital markets Annica Bresky President and CEO Stora Enso as a taxpayer Capacities by mill in 2020 Information for shareholders Governance 86 Auditor’s report Stora Enso 2019: Financials – Auditor’s report Strategy Annual Report 2019 (Translation of the Finnish Original) To the Annual General Meeting of Stora Enso Oyj Our Audit Approach Report on the Audit of Financial Statements Overview Financials Opinion In our opinion Stora Enso in 2019 • the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the group’s financial position and • We have applied an overall group financial performance and cash flows in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards Materiality materiality of EUR 52 million. Report of the (IFRS) as adopted by the EU Board of Directors Sustainability • the financial statements give a true and fair view of the parent company’s financial performance and • We performed audit procedures at 28 financial position in accordance with the laws and regulations governing the preparation of the financial reporting components in 11 countries Group Consolidated financial statements in Finland and comply with statutory requirements. scoping that are considered significant based statements on our overall risk assessment and Our opinion is consistent with the additional report to the Financial and Audit Committee. materiality. Notes to the Consolidated Key audit What we have audited • Valuation of biological assets financial statements matters We have audited the financial statements of Stora Enso Oyj (business identity code 1039050-8) for the year • Provisions and contingent liabilities ended 31 December 2019. The financial statements comprise: • Business combinations Parent Company Stora Enso • the consolidated statement of financial position, income statement, statement of comprehensive Oyj financial statements income, statement of changes in equity, statement of cash flows and notes, including a summary of significant accounting policies As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement Notes to the parent company • the parent company’s statement of financial position, income statement, statement of cash flows in the financial statements. In particular, we considered where management made subjective judgements; financial statements and notes. for example, in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain. Signatures for the financial Basis for Opinion statements We conducted our audit in accordance with good auditing practice in Finland. Our responsibilities under Materiality good auditing practice are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality. An audit is designed to obtain Financials Auditor’s report Statements section of our report. reasonable assurance whether the financial statements are free from material misstatement. Misstatements We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for may arise due to fraud or error. They are considered material if individually or in aggregate, they could Stora Enso in capital markets our opinion. reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial statements. Stora Enso as a taxpayer Independence Based on our professional judgement, we determined certain quantitative thresholds for materiality, We are independent of the parent company and of the group companies in accordance with the ethical including the overall group materiality for the consolidated financial statements as set out in the table requirements that are applicable in Finland and are relevant to our audit, and we have fulfilled our other below. These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and Capacities by mill in 2020 ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements on the To the best of our knowledge and belief, the non-audit services that we have provided to the parent financial statements as a whole. Information for shareholders company and to the group companies are in accordance with the applicable law and regulations in Finland and we have not provided non-audit services that are prohibited under Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 537/2014. The non-audit services that we have provided are disclosed in Note 5 to the Overall group materiality EUR 52 million Financial Statements. How we determined it Based on profit before tax Rationale for the materiality We chose operating profit and total assets as the benchmarks because, Governance benchmark applied in our view, they are relevant benchmarks against which the performance of the group is commonly measured by users of the financial statements. 87 Stora Enso 2019: Financials – Auditor’s report Strategy How we tailored our group audit scope Key audit matter in the audit of the group How our audit addressed the key audit matter Annual Report 2019 We tailored the scope of our audit, taking into account the structure of the group, the accounting processes Provisions and contingent liabilities We obtained an understanding of management’s and controls, and the industry in which the group operates. Refer to Note 2, Note 22 and Note 29 in the process to identify new obligations and changes in The Group operates in a significant number of legal entities or “reporting components” globally. consolidated financial statements for the related existing obligations. We determined the nature, timing and extent of audit work that needed to be performed at reporting disclosures We analysed significant changes in material As of 31 December 2019, the Group had provisions from prior periods and obtained a detailed components by us, as the group engagement team, or component auditors operating under our instruction. environmental, restructuring and other provisions understanding of these changes and assumptions Where the work was performed by component auditors, we issued specific instructions to those auditors totaling EUR 165 million. applied. which included our risk analysis, materiality and global audit approach. We performed audit procedures In addition, the Group has disclosed significant open Our audit procedures related to material provisions at 28 reporting components in 11 countries that are considered significant based on our overall risk legal cases and other contingent liabilities in Note 29. recognized included: Financials assessment and materiality. We have considered that the remaining reporting components do not present The assessment of the existence of the present legal or constructive obligation, the analysis of the probability • Assessment of the recognition criteria for the liability; • Evaluation of the methodology adopted by a reasonable risk of material misstatement for consolidated financial statements and thus our procedures of the outflow of future economic benefits, and the management for the measurement of the liability; related to these reporting components have been limited to targeted audit procedures over significant analysis of a reliable estimate, require management’s • Testing of the mathematical accuracy of the Stora Enso in 2019 balances and to analytical procedures performed at group level. judgement to ensure appropriate accounting or measurement calculation; By performing the procedures above at reporting components, combined with additional procedures at disclosures. • Assessment of the discount rates applied in the Report of the the group level, we have obtained sufficient and appropriate evidence regarding the financial information of Due to the level of judgement relating to recognition, measurement; and Board of Directors valuation and presentation of provisions and contingent • Assessment of the other key measurement Sustainability the group as a whole to provide a basis for our opinion on the consolidated financial statements. liabilities, this is considered to be a key audit matter. assumptions and inputs. Consolidated financial Key Audit Matters We obtained legal letters on the main outstanding legal statements Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our cases. audit of the financial statements of the current period. These matters were addressed in the context of our We reviewed minutes of the board meetings including audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a sub committees. Notes to the Consolidated We assessed the appropriateness of the presentation separate opinion on these matters. financial statements of the most significant contingent liabilities in the As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including consolidated financial statements. among other matters consideration of whether there was evidence of bias that represented a risk of Parent Company Stora Enso Business combinations material misstatement due to fraud. We obtained an understanding of management’s Oyj financial statements Refer to Note 4 in the consolidated financial statements process related to purchase accounting. for the related disclosures We assessed the appropriateness of the accounting Notes to the parent company Key audit matter in the audit of the group How our audit addressed the key audit matter The Group acquired control in Bergvik Skog Väst AB treatment applied to the acquisition. Valuation of Biological Assets We obtained an understanding of management’s on May 31, 2019. The acquisition was accounted for as Our audit procedures over valuation of non-cash part financial statements a business combination. of the purchase consideration included: Refer to Note 1, Note 2 and Note 12 in the consolidated biological asset valuation process, evaluated the financial statements for the related disclosures design and tested the operating effectiveness of The purchase consideration included a cash part • Evaluation of the methodology adopted by Signatures for the financial The fair value of the Group’s biological assets owned internal controls related to directly and indirectly owned of EUR 500 million and a fair value of the previously management for the valuation; indirectly owned shares of Bergvik Skog Väst AB of • Testing the mathematical accuracy of the model used statements through subsidiaries, joint operations and associated biological assets. EUR 1 106 million. for the valuation; companies amounts to EUR 4 380 million as of Our audit procedures over valuation of directly owned Financials December 31, 2019. biological asset included: Most of the assets acquired were biological assets. • Assessment of the key valuation assumptions; and Auditor’s report The value of biological assets is measured at fair value • Evaluation of the methodology adopted by The fair value of biological assets was estimated to • Validation of key inputs and data used in the less costs to sell. The fair value is determined using management for the valuation; be EUR 2 598 million. The acquisition resulted in valuation model. Stora Enso in capital markets discounted cash flows based on sustainable forest • Testing the mathematical accuracy of the model used recognition of goodwill of EUR 57 million. management plans taking into account the growth for valuation; The accounting for the business combination is We involved valuation specialists in the audit work over potential of one cycle. The one cycle varies depending • Assessment of the discount rates applied in the reported as provisional in the consolidated financial valuation of the non-cash purchase consideration. Stora Enso as a taxpayer on the geographic location and species. Determining valuation; statements. Our audit procedures related to valuation of biological the discounted cash flows requires estimates of growth, • Assessment of the other key valuation assumptions; Due to the level of judgment included in accounting assets were in-line with the procedures mentioned Capacities by mill in 2020 harvest, sales price and costs. and for business combinations, and the valuation of under key audit matter “Valuation of biological assets”. Due to the level of judgment involved in the valuation • Validation of key inputs and data used in the valuation the assets acquired and the non-cash purchase of biological assets, complexity of the governance model including sales price assumptions, growth consideration, as well as the significance of the Information for shareholders business combination to the Group’s financial position structure as well as the significance of biological assets assumptions and cost assumptions. to the Group’s financial position, this is considered to be this is considered to be a key audit matter. a key audit matter. We involved valuation specialists in the audit work over We have no key audit matters to report with respect to our audit of the parent company financial statements. valuation of directly owned biological assets. Related to indirectly owned biological assets we There are no significant risks of material misstatement referred to in Article 10(2c) of Regulation (EU) No 537/2014 have communicated with the auditors of the three with respect to the consolidated financial statements or the parent company financial statements. largest associates and joint operations. As part of the communication, among other things, we have evaluated Governance the key audit procedures performed related to valuation of biological assets. 88 Stora Enso 2019: Financials – Auditor’s report Strategy Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned scope Annual Report 2019 the Managing Director for the Financial Statements and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for the preparation of consolidated that we identify during our audit. financial statements that give a true and fair view in accordance with International Financial Reporting We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the EU, and of financial statements that give a true and fair view in ethical requirements regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters accordance with the laws and regulations governing the preparation of financial statements in Finland and that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards. comply with statutory requirements. The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are also responsible From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and are that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation Financials In preparing the financial statements, the Board of Directors and the Managing Director are precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that responsible for assessing the parent company’s and the group’s ability to continue as a going concern, a matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would disclosing, as applicable, matters relating to going concern and using the going concern basis of reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication. Stora Enso in 2019 accounting. The financial statements are prepared using the going concern basis of accounting unless there is an intention to liquidate the parent company or the group or to cease operations, or there is no Other Reporting Requirements Report of the realistic alternative but to do so. Board of Directors Appointment Sustainability Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements We were first appointed as auditors by the annual general meeting on 28 March 2018. Consolidated financial Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole statements are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that Other Information includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance but is not a guarantee that an audit The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for the other information. The other Notes to the Consolidated conducted in accordance with good auditing practice will always detect a material misstatement when information comprises the report of the Board of Directors. it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information. financial statements aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other basis of these financial statements. information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with Parent Company Stora Enso As part of an audit in accordance with good auditing practice, we exercise professional judgment and the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially Oyj financial statements maintain professional skepticism throughout the audit. We also: misstated. Our responsibility also includes considering whether the report of the Board of Directors has • Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud been prepared in accordance with the applicable laws and regulations. Notes to the parent company or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence In our opinion financial statements that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material • the information in the report of the Board of Directors is consistent with the information in the misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve financial statements Signatures for the financial collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. • the report of the Board of Directors has been prepared in accordance with the applicable laws statements • Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures and regulations. that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the Financials Auditor’s report effectiveness of the parent company’s or the group’s internal control. If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of the report of • Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting the Board of Directors, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard. Stora Enso in capital markets estimates and related disclosures made by management. • Conclude on the appropriateness of the Board of Directors’ and the Managing Director’s use of the Other Statements Stora Enso as a taxpayer going concern basis of accounting and based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material We support the proposal that the financial statements are adopted. The proposal by the Board of Directors uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the parent regarding the distribution of profits is in compliance with the Limited Liability Companies Act. We support company’s or the group’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material that the Board of Directors and the Managing Director of the parent company should be discharged from Capacities by mill in 2020 uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures liability for the financial period audited by us. in the financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our Information for shareholders conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, Helsinki 11 February 2020 future events or conditions may cause the parent company or the group to cease to continue as a going concern. PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy • Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements, including the Authorised Public Accountants disclosures, and whether the financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events so that the financial statements give a true and fair view. • Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or Governance business activities within the group to express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements. We are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the group audit. We remain solely Samuli Perälä responsible for our audit opinion. Authorised Public Accountant (KHT) 89 Stora Enso 2019: Financials – Stora Enso in capital markets Strategy Unaudited Annual Report 2019 Stora Enso in capital markets Stora Enso ensures that all material information that has an impact on Stora Enso’s Ownership distribution, 31 December 2019 Financials share price is simultaneously available to the general public and financial community % of shares % of votes % of shareholders in order to ensure the right share price level in relation to the company’s history, assets Solidium Oy1 10.7% 27.3% 0.0% and future prospects. In its engagement with the capital markets, Stora Enso’s Investor FAM AB2 10.2% 27.3% 0.0% Stora Enso in 2019 Relations aims to support the brand with accurate, consistent and credible financial Social Insurance Institution of Finland (KELA) 3.1% 10.1% 0.0% communications. Finnish institutions (excl. Solidium and KELA) 12.5% 8.8% 2.7% Report of the Swedish institutions (excl. FAM) 9.3% 6.1% 1.9% Board of Directors Sustainability Finnish private shareholders 4.4% 2.6% 42.9% Shares and shareholders Swedish private shareholders 4.2% 2.7% 50.4% Consolidated financial ADR holders 1.8% 0.6% 1.0% statements Shares and voting rights Under nominee names The shares of Stora Enso Oyj (hereafter the “Company” or “Stora Enso”) are divided into A and R shares, (non-Finnish/non-Swedish shareholders) 43.8% 14.7% 1.1% Notes to the Consolidated which entitle holders to the same dividend but different voting rights. Each A share and each ten R shares 1 Entirely owned by the Finnish state. carry one vote at a shareholders’ meeting. However, each shareholder has at least one vote. financial statements 2 As confirmed to Stora Enso. On 31 December 2019, Stora Enso had 176 256 834 A shares and 612 363 153 R shares in issue, of which the Company held no A shares or R shares. The total number of Stora Enso shares in issue was Parent Company Stora Enso 788 619 987 and the total number of votes was 237 493 149. Oyj financial statements Ownership distribution, % of shares held Share listings Notes to the parent company Stora Enso shares are listed on the Nasdaq Helsinki and the Nasdaq Stockholm. Stora Enso shares are Solidium Oy¹ 10.7% FAM AB² 10.2% financial statements quoted in Helsinki in euros (EUR) and in Stockholm in Swedish crowns (SEK). Social Insurance Institution of Finland (KELA) 3.1% Finnish institutions (excl. Solidium and KELA) 12.5% Signatures for the financial American Depositary Receipts (ADRs) Swedish institutions (excl. FAM) 9.3% statements Stora Enso has a sponsored Level I American Depositary Receipts (ADR) facility. Stora Enso ADRs are Finnish private shareholders 4.4% traded over-the-counter (OTC) in the USA. The ratio between Stora Enso ADRs and R shares is 1:1, i.e. one Financials Swedish private shareholders 4.2% Auditor’s report ADR represents one Stora Enso R share. Citibank, N.A. acts as the depositary bank for the Stora Enso ADR ADR holders 1.8% programme. The trading symbol is SEOAY and the CUSIP number is 86210M106. Under nominee names (non-Finnish/non-Swedish shareholders) 43.8% Stora Enso in capital markets Share registers 1 Entirely owned by Finnish state. Stora Enso as a taxpayer The Company’s shares are entered in the Book-Entry Securities System maintained by Euroclear Finland 2 As conﬁrmed to Stora Enso. Oy, which also maintains the official share register of Stora Enso Oyj. On 31 December 2019, 132 278 917 of the Company’s shares were registered in Euroclear Sweden AB Capacities by mill in 2020 and 14 124 494 of the Company’s R shares were registered in ADR form in Citibank, N.A. Share capital Information for shareholders Distribution by book-entry system, 31 December 2019 On 31 December 2019, the Company’s fully paid-up share capital entered in the Finnish Trade Register was Number of shares Total A shares R shares Legend 1 342 million. The current accountable EUR Value in % par of each issued share is EUR 1.70. Euroclear Finland Oy 642 216 576 164 946 369 477 270 207 Solidium Oy¹ 10.7% XX% Euroclear Sweden AB1 132 278 917 11 310 465 120 968 452 Conversion FAM AB² 10.2% XX% Social Insurance Institution of Finland 3.1% XX% Citi administered ADRs1 14 124 494 14 124 494 According (KELA) to the Articles of Association, holders of Stora Enso A shares may convert these into R shares at Total 788 619 987 176 256 834 612 363 153 any time. Finnish The conversion institutions of and (excl. Solidium shares is voluntary. The conversions of a total of 55 838 A shares into R shares 12.5% XX% KELA)recorded in the Finnish Trade Register during the year 2019. were Governance 1 Shares registered in Euroclear Sweden and ADRs are both nominee registered in Euroclear Finland. Swedish institutions (excl. FAM) 9.3% XX% Finnish private shareholders 4.4% XX% Swedish private shareholders 4.2% XX% ADR holders 1.8% XX% Under nominee names 43.8% XX% (non-Finnish/non-Swedish shareholders) Total 100% 90 Stora Enso 2019: Financials – Stora Enso in capital markets Strategy Changes in share capital 2011-2019 quarterly result guidance. In the quarterly result guidance, Stora Enso releases an estimated absolute range Annual Report 2019 No. of A No. of R Total no. of Share capital for quarterly operational EBIT. Stora Enso may include quarterly maintenance impact for sequential quarter shares issued shares issued shares (EUR million) including comparison to the quarter year before and previous quarter in the same year. Stora Enso Oyj, 1 Jan 2011 177 149 784 612 388 715 789 538 499 1 342 Conversion of A shares into R shares, Dec 2010–Nov 2011 -1 012 1 012 Closed period Stora Enso Oyj, 31 Dec 2011 177 148 772 612 389 727 789 538 499 1 342 Stora Enso closed period starts when the reporting period ends or 30 days prior to the announcement of Conversion of A shares into R shares, Dec 2011–Nov 2012 -1 000 1 000 the results, whichever is earlier, and lasts until the results are announced. The dates are published in the Stora Enso Oyj, 31 Dec 2012 177 147 772 612 390 727 789 538 499 1 342 financial calendar at storaenso.com/investors. During closed periods, Stora Enso persons discharging managerial responsibilities (PDMRs) or persons entered into the Company’s Closed Period List are not Financials Cancellation of shares owned by the Company, 15 May 2013 Conversion of A shares into R shares, Dec 2012–Nov 2013 -51 568 -918 512 788 619 987 51 568 allowed to trade in Company securities. In addition, there will be no discussions regarding financial issues with the capital markets or the financial media during the closed period. This applies to meetings, Stora Enso Oyj, 31 Dec 2013 177 096 204 611 523 783 788 619 987 1 342 telephone conversations or other means of communication. Stora Enso in 2019 Conversion of A shares into R shares, Dec 2013–Nov 2014 -40 000 40 000 Stora Enso Oyj, 31 Dec 2014 177 056 204 611 563 783 788 619 987 1 342 Shareholdings of other Group-related bodies at 31 December 2019 Report of the Conversion of A shares into R shares, Dec 2014–Nov 2015 -524 114 524 114 E.J. Ljungberg’s Education Foundation owned 1 780 540 A shares and 2 336 224 R shares, E.J. Ljungberg’s Board of Directors Stora Enso Oyj, 31 Dec 2015 176 532 090 612 087 897 788 619 987 1 342 Sustainability Foundation owned 39 534 A shares and 101 579 R shares, Mr. and Mrs. Ljungberg’s Testamentary Conversion of A shares into R shares, Dec 2015–Nov 2016 -25 000 25 000 Foundation owned 5 093 A shares and 13 085 R shares and Bergslaget’s Healthcare Foundation owned Consolidated financial Stora Enso Oyj, 31 Dec 2016 176 507 090 612 112 897 788 619 987 1 342 626 269 A shares and 1 609 483 R shares. statements Conversion of A shares into R shares, Dec 2016–Nov 2017 -114 770 114 770 Stora Enso Oyj, 31 Dec 2017 176 392 320 612 227 667 788 619 987 1 342 Shareholders Notes to the Consolidated Conversion of A shares into R shares, Dec 2017–Nov 2018 -79 648 79 648 At the end of 2019 the Company had approximately 112 446 registered shareholders, including about Stora Enso Oyj, 31 Dec 2018 176 312 672 612 307 315 788 619 987 1 342 59 694 Swedish shareholders and about 1 136 ADR holders. Each nominee register is entered in the share financial statements Conversion of A shares into R shares, Dec 2018–Nov 2019 -55 838 55 838 register as one shareholder. The free float of shares excluding shareholders with holdings of more than 5% of shares or votes Parent Company Stora Enso Stora Enso Oyj, 31 Dec 2019 176 256 834 612 363 153 788 619 987 1 342 is approximately 599 million shares, which is 76% of the total number of shares issued. The largest Oyj financial statements For more historical data about the share capital, please visit storaenso.com/investors/shares shareholder in the Company is Solidium Oy based in Finland. Notes to the parent company Stora Enso’s activities in capital markets during 2019 Major shareholders as at 31 December 2019 financial statements Stora Enso’s Investor Relations activities cover equity and fixed-income markets to ensure full and fair By voting power A shares R shares % of shares % of votes valuation of the Company, continual access to funding sources and stable bond pricing. Investors and 1 Solidium Oy1 62 655 036 21 792 540 10.7% 27.3% Signatures for the financial analysts are met on a regular basis in Europe and North America. In 2019, the Investor Relations (IR) team 2 FAM AB2 63 123 386 17 000 000 10.2% 27.3% statements conducted several individual and group meetings with equity investors, whilst maintaining regular contact 3 Social Insurance Institution of Finland 23 825 086 973 982 3.1% 10.1% with equity research analysts at investment banks and brokerage firms. Financials 4 Varma Mutual Pension Insurance Company 8 513 018 1 140 874 1.2% 3.6% Auditor’s report All in all, the IR team met alone or with top management over 450 investors and arranged more than 5 MP-Bolagen i Vetlanda AB 4 826 020 1 110 000 0.8% 2.1% 340 meetings including one-on-one, group meetings, conference calls and site visits of which 20 included discussions related to environmental, social and governance (ESG) topics. There were also meetings with 6 Ilmarinen Mutual Pension Insurance Company 3 055 000 16 570 000 2.1% 2.0% Stora Enso in capital markets 7 Erik Johan Ljungberg’s Education Foundation 1 780 540 2 336 224 0.5% 0.8% fixed-income analysts and investors. In addition, Stora Enso arranged a webinar for ESG investors and analysts on its sustainability strategy and activities. 8 Swedbank Robur Funds 0 16 729 037 2.1% 0.7% Stora Enso as a taxpayer 9 Elo Mutual Pension Insurance Company 0 7 909 000 1.0% 0.3% The Group arranged site visits to several mills in Finland and Sweden as well as to an innovation centre in Stockholm. Senior management and the IR personnel also gave presentations at equity and 10 Bergslaget’s Healthcare Foundation 626 269 1 609 483 0.3% 0.3% Capacities by mill in 2020 fixed-income investor conferences in Scandinavia, Continental Europe, the United Kingdom and North 11 AFA Insurance 0 7 072 505 0.9% 0.3% America. During the year, the Group arranged four large group presentations for private investors in 12 Nordea Investment Funds 0 5 841 360 0.7% 0.2% Information for shareholders Sweden and two in Finland. 13 The State Pension Fund (Finland) 0 5 813 755 0.7% 0.2% Stora Enso arranged an Investor day in September and provided an update to the strategy, including 14 SEB Investment Management 0 5 769 313 0.7% 0.2% a detailed review of Wood Products division and Nordic forests, highlighting the new Forest division 15 Keva (Local Government Pensions Institution) 0 4 793 208 0.6% 0.2% which was established from the beginning of 2020. At the event, the CEO, CFO and heads of Wood Total 168 404 355 116 461 281 35.6% 75.6% Products division and Wood Supply gave their presentations. The programme included visits to a forest logging site and Gruvön sawmill. The guests were able to see the close link between wood procurement Nominee-registered shares3 74 608 072 467 705 419 68.8 % 51.1 % and Wood Products division’s business. The event was attended by 70 persons, and another 100 joined Governance via live webcast. 1 Entirely owned by the Finnish State. 2 As confirmed to Stora Enso. 3 According to Euroclear Finland. Guidance policy The list has been compiled by the Company on the basis of shareholder information obtained from Euroclear Finland, Euroclear Sweden and a database managed by Citibank, N.A (Citi). This information includes only directly registered holdings, thus certain holdings (which Stora Enso releases its guidance in the financial statements bulletin, in the half-year financial report and in may be substantial) of shares held in nominee or brokerage accounts cannot be included. The list is therefore incomplete. the interim reports. The published guidance consists of general market outlook for the financial year and 91 Equity per share Dividend per share Stora Enso 2019: Financials – Stora Enso in capital markets Strategy Share price performance and volumes Annual Report 2019 EUR EUR Helsinki 10.0 0.6 The Stora Enso R (STERV) share price increased by 29% during 2019 (24% decrease in 2018). Over the 8.0 0.5 same period, the OMX Helsinki Index increased by 13%, the OMX Helsinki Benchmark Index by 15% and 0.4 the OMX Helsinki Basic Materials Index by 29%. 6.0 0.3 4.0 Stockholm 0.2 The Stora Enso R (STE R) share price increased by 31% during 2019 (20% decrease in 2018). Over the 2.0 Financials same period, the OMX Stockholm 30 Index increased by 26% and the OMX Stockholm Basic Materials 0.0 0.1 0.0 Index increased by 32%. 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2016 2017 2018 2019 20201 Stora Enso in 2019 OTC 1 Board of Directors’ proposal to the AGM for the distribution of dividend. Stora Enso ADR (SEOAY) share price increased by 26% during 2019 (27% decrease in 2018). Over the Report of the same period, the Standard & Poor’s Global Timber and Forestry Index increased by 176%. Board of Directors Sustainability Share prices and volumes in 2019 Helsinki, Stora Enso A Helsinki, Stora Enso R Consolidated financial Helsinki, EUR Stockholm, SEK OTC, USD Number of shares, Share price Number of shares, Share price thousand (EUR) million (EUR) statements A share 14.45 155.00 Year 2 800 5 000 2015 5 732 138 2016 2017 20 2018 Year2019 125 2016 2017 2018 20 2019 2020 High R share 13.05 139.40 14.55 Value 6.83 7.36 7.62 8.51 Value 9.42 0.33 0.37 0.41 0.5 0.5 Notes to the Consolidated A share 10.85 111.00 100 16 financial statements Low R share 9.10 95.70 10.35 1 500 15 A share 13.55 142.50 75 12 Parent Company Stora Enso Closing, 31 Dec 2019 R share 12.97 135.90 14.55 A share 23% 23% 1 000 10 Oyj financial statements Change from previous year R share 29% 31% 26% 50 8 A share 1 298 814 1 991 894 Notes to the parent company 500 5 Cumulative trading volume, no. of shares R share 679 474 525 229 218 485 10 661 399 financial statements 25 4 Signatures for the financial The volume-weighted average price of R shares over the year was EUR 11.05 in Helsinki (EUR 14.61 in 0 0 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 statements 2018), SEK 116.91 in Stockholm (SEK 145.49 in 2018) and USD 12.36 on the OTC in the USA (USD 17.46 in Volume Volume 2018). The percentage of R shares traded was 57.9% (60.7% in 2018) in alternative trading venues, 31.1% Financials Monthly average share price Monthly average share price Auditor’s report (32.7% in 2018) in Helsinki, 10.5% (5.8% in 2018) in Stockholm and 0.5% (0.1% in 2018) on the OTC in the USA. Total market capitalisation on the OMX Helsinki at year-end was EUR 10.3 billion (EUR 8.1 billion). Stora Enso in capital markets Stockholm, Stora Enso R New York, Stora Enso ADR Alternative trading venues Number of shares, Share price Number of shares, Share price Stora Enso as a taxpayer Stora Enso shares can be traded outside Nasdaq Helsinki and Nasdaq Stockholm, where the shares are million (SEK) million (USD) listed. During 2019, the largest alternative trading venues included Cboe APA, Cboe BXE and Cboe CXE. 50 200 5 25 The alternative trading venues’ market share of monthly volume in Stora Enso shares varied between 48% Capacities by mill in 2020 and 70%. Of the alternative trading venues, Cboe BXE had the biggest share of the volume with 30% on 40 160 4 20 an annual basis (Cboe APA had the biggest share of the volume in 2018 with 35%). Information for shareholders 1 1 30 120 3 15 20 80 2 10 10 40 1 5 Governance 0 0 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Volume Volume Monthly average share price Monthly average share price 92 Stora Enso R Share Stora Enso 2019: Financials – Stora Enso in capital markets Strategy Stora Enso is included in at least the following indices Annual Report 2019 vs Nasdaq Helsinki indices 1.1.2015 = 100 OMX INDICES STOXX INDICES FTSE INDICES MSCI INDICES SUSTAINABILITY INDICES 250 OMX Helsinki STOXX Global 1800 FTSE RAFI All-World 3000 MSCI Finland CDP’s Climate Alist OMX Helsinki 25 STOXX Europe 600 FTSE RAFI Developed 1000 MSCI Nordic countries FTSE4 Good Index 200 STOXX® Global ESG Leaders 150 OMX Helsinki Large Cap STOXX Europe Mid 200 FTSE RAFI Europe MSCI Europe Indicies 100 OMX Helsinki Benchmark STOXX Nordic FTSE Finland 25 Index MSCI Europe Materials ECPI EMU Ethical Equity index OMX Helsinki Basic Materials EURO STOXX FTSE4Good Global MSCI World ECPI World ESG Equity Index 50 Financials OMX Helsinki Basic Resources EURO STOXX Basic Materials MSCI World Mid Cap OMX GES Sustainability Finland 0 Ethibel Sustainability Index (ESI) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 OMX Helsinki Forestry & Paper EURO STOXX Basic Resources Excellence Stora Enso in 2019 Euronext Vigeo World, Europe Stora Enso (EUR) OMX Stockholm and Eurozone 120 OMX Helsinki Basic Materials (EUR) Report of the OMX Stockholm Benchmark MSCI ESG indices OMX Helsinki (EUR) Board of Directors OMX Stockholm Large Cap Sustainability OMX Stockholm Basic Materials Market capitalisation Legend Value Consolidated financial OMX Stockholm Basic Resources on Nasdaq Helsinki 6802 6778 OMX Stockholm Forestry & Paper 7583 statements EUR million 7445 OMX Nordic 14 000 7511 7298 OMX Nordic Large Cap 6755 Notes to the Consolidated 12 000 Data can be found on the last sheet 6278 5352 Nasdaq OMX Nordic Materials financial statements VINX Basic Materials 10 000 6686 7370 8 000 6618 5907 VINX Basic Resources 6031 Parent Company Stora Enso 6 000 6314 6179 Read more about sustainability indeces in the Sustainability 2019. Oyj financial statements 4 000 6212 5806 2 000 6488 In 2016, Stora Enso shifted its strategy regarding the provision of ESG information to its stakeholders. 6363 Notes to the parent company The emphasis is to keep sustainability information widely available on the Group website to benefit and 0 6373 6897 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 7285 financial statements serve different stakeholders in equal manner. As a consequence, Stora Enso simultaneously reduces 8085 8388 the number of sustainability index survey questionnaires in which it participates. The Group is targeting 8120 8870 Signatures for the financial its participation in those questionnaires and enquiries that it has assessed to be the most material. 8741 Monthly R shares trading volumes Helsinki Stockholm 8958 OTC 8953 Alt statements The Company continues with this chosen strategy also in 2020. Number of shares, million 8947 tra ve 69.04 13.82 8712 0.59 Financials 64.69 15.97 9426 0.21 300 10600 Auditor’s report Trading codes and currencies 65.27 67.31 13.95 12.96 0.21 10163 0.25 1 69.75 14.62 10422 0.16 1 Helsinki Stockholm OTC 250 56.39 7.75 10913 0.39 77.86 11.18 11499 0.21 1 Stora Enso in capital markets A share STEAV STE A 58.16 72.45 7.39 12.27 11801 0.18 13017 0.18 R share STERV STE R 83.65 16.89 13822 0.16 1 200 57.92 9.26 13251 0.13 Stora Enso as a taxpayer ADRs SEOAY 56.02 74.01 7.97 12.09 11353 0.20 12736 0.16 13041 Segment Large Cap Large Cap 150 79.45 61.56 12.38 8.42 0.18 10615 0.19 1 9166 Capacities by mill in 2020 Sector Materials Materials 79.12 76.87 14.62 13.52 0.17 8123 0.34 9409 1 1 Currency EUR SEK USD 100 64.13 6.20 0.25 55.60 6.75 9385 0.19 1 47.90 6.39 8884 0.20 Information for shareholders ISIN, A share FI0009005953 FI0009007603 54.65 13.45 9208 0.09 7971 ISIN, R share FI0009005961 FI0009007611 50 1 65.85 19.95 0.20 8708 1 61.96 15.97 4.18 44.02 12.67 8673 0.22 CUSIP 86210M106 48.70 12.96 8369 0.38 9017 0 53.23 16.21 0.60 1 Reuters STERV.HE 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 49.29 13.04 9410 0.55 9824 1 48.99 12.81 0.26 1 Bloomberg STERV FH Equity 47.76 12.75 10328 0.32 1 Helsinki 49.59 12.03 0.30 52.41 11.49 0.19 Stockholm 50.90 12.91 0.30 41.79 9.26 0.29 OTC 48.05 11.95 0.66 Governance 43.42 9.73 0.25 Alternative trading venues 37.59 5.48 0.23 55.86 10.79 0.42 52.79 10.03 0.25 59.37 10.79 2.54 1 48.26 7.33 0.61 38.20 7.62 1.40 56.33 5.67 0.46 1 53.58 10.45 0.49 44.57 7.46 1.32 39.42 5.35 0.40 58.16 7.89 2.10 55.84 13.08 1.16 1 47.92 12.45 3.86 52.23 9.99 1.19 1 54.19 9.94 0.54 1 61.29 14.46 0.45 1 60.29 14.50 0.57 1 60.85 18.71 1.83 1 67.41 22.61 2.98 1 93 Stora Enso 2019: Financials – Stora Enso in capital markets Strategy Key share data 2010-2019, total operations (for calculations see Calculation of key figures) Annual Report 2019 According to Nasdaq Helsinki 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Earnings per share, EUR 1.12 1.28 0.79 0.59 1.02 0.13 -0.07 0.61 0.43 0.97 – diluted, EUR 1.12 1.28 0.79 0.59 1.02 0.13 -0.07 0.61 0.43 0.97 – excl. IAC, EUR 1.34 1.29 0.89 0.65 1.24 0.40 0.40 0.33 0.63 0.79 Equity/share, EUR 9.42 8.51 7.62 7.36 6.83 6.43 6.61 7.32 7.45 7.87 Dividend and distribution/share, EUR 0.501 0.50 0.41 0.37 0.33 0.30 0.30 0.30 0.30 0.25 Payout ratio, % 45 39 52 63 32 231 -429 49 70 26 Dividend and distribution yield, % Financials A share 3.7 4.5 3.1 3.56 3.9 4.0 4.1 5.3 5.9 3.2 R share 3.9 5.0 3.1 3.62 3.9 4.0 4.1 5.7 6.5 3.3 Stora Enso in 2019 Price/earnings ratio (P/E), excl. IAC A share 10.1 8.6 14.8 16.0 6.8 18.7 18.3 17.3 8.0 10.0 R share 9.7 7.8 14.9 15.7 6.8 18.6 18.3 15.9 7.3 9.7 Report of the Share prices for the period, EUR Board of Directors Sustainability A share – closing price 13.55 11.05 13.20 10.40 8.40 7.48 7.31 5.70 5.03 7.90 Consolidated financial – average price 12.88 16.36 11.93 8.50 8.87 7.29 6.82 6.15 7.73 6.47 statements – high 14.45 18.45 13.79 10.45 11.01 8.35 7.49 7.15 9.80 7.94 – low 10.85 10.75 10.26 6.56 6.70 5.73 5.42 5.10 4.70 5.30 Notes to the Consolidated R share financial statements – closing price 12.97 10.09 13.22 10.21 8.39 7.44 7.30 5.25 4.63 7.69 – average price 11.05 14.61 11.54 7.88 8.70 7.16 5.79 5.08 6.28 6.03 Parent Company Stora Enso – high 13.05 18.29 13.75 10.28 10.95 8.38 7.54 5.95 8.99 7.79 Oyj financial statements – low 9.10 9.92 9.70 6.50 6.58 5.71 4.76 4.14 3.73 4.15 Market capitalisation at year-end, EUR million Notes to the parent company A share 2 388 1 948 2 328 1 836 1 483 1 324 1 295 1 010 891 1 400 financial statements R share 7 939 6 175 8 094 6 250 5 135 4 547 4 464 3 212 2 835 4 709 Total 10 328 8 123 10 422 8 085 6 618 5 871 5 756 4 222 3 726 6 109 Number of shares at the end of period, (thousands) Signatures for the financial A share 176 257 176 313 176 392 176 507 176 532 177 056 177 096 177 148 177 149 177 150 statements R share 612 363 612 307 612 228 612 113 612 088 611 564 611 524 612 391 612 389 612 389 Financials Total 788 620 788 620 788 620 788 620 788 620 788 620 788 620 789 538 789 538 789 538 Auditor’s report Trading volume, (thousands) A share 1 299 3 068 6 768 1 254 1 641 1 553 1 656 831 1 402 1 887 Stora Enso in capital markets % of total number of A shares 0.7 1.7 3.8 0.7 0.9 0.9 0.9 0.5 0.8 1.1 R share 679 475 610 300 571 717 765 122 798 507 731 067 828 401 977 746 1 237 898 1 194 245 Stora Enso as a taxpayer % of total number of R shares 111.0 99.7 93.4 125 130.5 119.5 135.5 159.7 202.1 195.0 Average number of shares (thousands) Capacities by mill in 2020 basic 788 620 788 620 788 620 788 620 788 620 788 620 788 620 788 620 788 620 788 619 diluted 789 533 789 883 790 024 789 888 789 809 789 210 788 620 788 620 788 620 788 619 Information for shareholders 1 Board of Directors’ proposal to the AGM for distribution of dividend. IAC = Items affecting comparability Read more about incentive programmes in Note 21 and Management interests in Note 7. Governance 94 Stora Enso 2019: Financials – Stora Enso in capital markets Strategy Debt investors Rating strategy Annual Report 2019 Stora Enso Group’s target is to have at least one public credit rating with the ambition to remain investment Funding strategy grade and sustain such metrics throughout business cycles. The present rating and outlook from Moody’s Stora Enso’s funding strategy is based on the Group’s financial targets. Stora Enso should have access and Fitch Ratings are shown below. to sufficient and competitively priced funding at any time to be able to pursue its strategy and achieve its financial targets. Stora Enso’s debt structure is focused on the capital markets and commercial banks. Ratings as at 31 December 2019 Stora Enso maintains consistent dialogue with fixed-income community with informative and transparent Rating agency Long/short-term rating Valid from communication and meetings in conferences and road-shows. Funding is obtained in the currencies of the Group’s investments and assets (primarily USD, EUR, SEK Fitch Ratings BBB(stable) 8 August 2018 Financials and CNY). Commercial paper markets are used for short-term funding and liquidity management. Moody’s Baa3 (stable) / P-3 1 November 2018 Public debt structure as at 31 December 2019 Stora Enso in 2019 Stora Enso’s current credit ratings are: Baa3 with stable outlook from Moody’s and BBBwith stable EUR USD SEK Public issues EUR 300 million 2023 USD 300 million 2036 SEK 3 000 million 2021 outlook from Fitch Ratings. Both ratings correspond to an Investment Grade rating, and there were no Report of the changes in the ratings during 2019. EUR 300 million 2027 SEK 3 000 million 2024 Board of Directors Sustainability Stora Enso’s goal is to ensure that rating agencies continue to be comfortable with Stora Enso’s EUR 300 million 2028 strategy and performance. The Company’s strategy is to achieve liquidity well in line with the comfort level Private placements EUR 125 million 2025 SEK 1 000 million 2026 Consolidated financial of the agencies. Review meetings are arranged with the Stora Enso management annually, and regular EUR 25 million 2027 statements contact is maintained with the rating analysts. Read more about debt and loans in Note 26. Notes to the Consolidated Debt programmes and credit facilities as at 31 December 2019 financial statements EUR SEK Finnish Commercial Paper Swedish Commercial Paper Parent Company Stora Enso Commercial paper programmes Programme EUR 750 million Programme SEK 10 000 million Oyj financial statements EMTN (Euro Medium-Term Note programme) EUR 4 000 million EUR 600 million sustainability Back-up facility linked revolving credit facility 20231 Notes to the parent company 1 Undrawn committed credit facility EUR 600 million. Part of the pricing for the facility agreement is based on Stora Enso’s Science financial statements Based Targets to combat global warming by reducing greenhouse gases, including CO2. Signatures for the financial statements Stora Enso has integrated sustainability agenda to its funding and financial services. The Group has the long-term aim to secure funding partners that have sustainability as a fundamental part of their agenda. Financials Auditor’s report We aim to influence and develop the financial markets to ensure that sustainability becomes an integral part of decisions and credit evaluation. For more information, please see Stora Enso’s Sustainability 2019, Stora Enso in capital markets section Investors or visit our website storaenso.com/investors. Stora Enso as a taxpayer Green Bonds Stora Enso issued its first Green Bonds in February 2019. The bonds were issued under its EMTN (Euro Medium Term Note) programme, and the total aggregated principal amount of the transaction was Capacities by mill in 2020 SEK 6 000 million. The proceeds were used to finance acquisition of forest assets in Sweden. There are no financial covenants connected to the bonds. The bonds are listed on the Luxembourg Stock Exchange. Information for shareholders Read more about acquisition of forest assets in Sweden in Note 4, Acquisitions and disposals, and Sustainability 2019. Governance 95 Stora Enso 2019: Financials – Stora Enso as a taxpayer Strategy Limited Assurance Annual Report 2019 Stora Enso as a taxpayer Stora Enso’s operations generate value through taxes for governments around the world. Total taxes borne 2019 Total taxes borne 2018 Financials In 2019, Stora Enso paid again more than EUR 1 billion into public sectors, including EUR 767 million in collected taxes. Finland 19% Finland 21% Sweden 37% Sweden 34% e Stora Enso in 2019 Stora Enso aims to be transparent with respect to economic value generation. For this purpose, Stora Enso Germany 5% Germany 3% UK 0% UK 0% rself makes a voluntary commitment to openly provide details of the taxes paid by the group to governments in Report of the its main countries of operation. This commitment to our stakeholders is fully in line with Stora Enso’s values Poland 5% Poland 6% China 6% China 11% Board of Directors Sustainability to ‘Do what’s right’ and ‘Lead’. Austria 6% Austria 5% Belgium 6% Belgium 7% Consolidated financial Stora Enso’s tax policy Russia 4% Russia 4% statements As a responsible and prudent taxpayer, Stora Enso is committed to ensure that the Group observes all Brazil 3% Brazil 2% applicable tax laws, rules and regulations in all jurisdictions where it conducts its business activities. Other 9% Other 7% Notes to the Consolidated Stora Enso follows international transfer pricing guidelines and local legislation. In addition to our legal and regulatory requirements, our tax principles comply with our values. Furthermore, we seek to ensure that financial statements our tax strategy is aligned with our business and commercial strategy. We only undertake tax planning that is duly aligned to economic activity. This means that all tax decisions are made in response to commercial Parent Company Stora Enso activity, and tax is only one of many factors that are taken into account when making business decisions. Total taxes collected 2019 Total taxes collected 2018 Oyj financial statements As with any other business expense, however, we have an obligation to manage our tax costs as part of our financial responsibility to societies and shareholders. We are therefore willing to respond to Finland 36% Finland 33% Notes to the parent company tax incentives and exemptions granted by governments on reasonable grounds, and we currently have Sweden 21% Sweden 21% financial statements operations in countries that offer favourable tax treatments, where their location is also justified by sound Legend Germany 10% Value in % Legend Germany 12% Value in % Exact value commercial considerations. UK 10% Finland 19% XX% UK 10% Finland 21% 21 Signatures for the financial Stora Enso has operations in the following locations that offer favourable tax treatments: Poland 5% Sweden 37% XX% Poland 7% Sweden 34% 34 China 4% Germany China 2% Germany statements • The joint operation Montes del Plata operates a pulp mill in a Special Economic Zone in Uruguay. UK3% 5% XX% XX% UK3% 3% 3 Austria Austria 0% 0% 0 • Stora Enso’s two forestry companies in Guangxi, China are entitled to exemption from corporate Financials Poland 5% XX% Poland 6% 6 income tax and value added tax on their sales, and our related industrial company is entitled to reduced Belgium 1% Belgium 2% Auditor’s report China 6% XX% China 11% 11 tax rates until 2025. Austria1% Russia 6% XX% Austria2% Russia 5% 5 Brazil 2% Belgium Brazil 1% Belgium • Stora Enso conducts business, mainly consisting of sales services, in the United Arab Emirates, 6% XX% 7% 7 Stora Enso in capital markets Russia Other 7% 4% XX% Russia Other 7% 4% 4 Singapore and Hong Kong. Brazil 3% XX% Brazil 2% 2 Stora Enso as a taxpayer • For logistical and operational reasons, pulp from the Group’s joint operations in Brazil and Uruguay is Other 9% XX% Other 7% 7 traded via a pulp sourcing and marketing company based in the Netherlands. XX% Total 100% 0 Total 100% 100 • AS Stora Enso Latvija has been granted a corporate income tax credit relating to an investment project. Capacities by mill in 2020 The credit is available for utilisation against tax arising on profit distribution in future years. Information for shareholders Our commitment to tax transparency is also reflected in our relationships with tax authorities and governments. We seek to work positively, proactively and openly with tax authorities on a global basis, aiming to minimise disputes and to build confidence wherever possible. Legend Value in % Legend Value in % Exact value Finland Finland Stora Enso’s tax footprint 36% XX% 33% 33 Sweden 21% XX% Sweden 21% 21 In 2019, Stora Enso paid EUR 1 265 million (1 276 million in 2018) in taxes to governments in countries Germany 10% XX% Germany 12% 12 where the group has operations. A total of EUR 498 (489) million was paid directly by the group (taxes UK 10% XX% UK 10% 10 Governance borne) while EUR 767 (787) million was collected on behalf of governments (taxes collected). Poland 5% XX% Poland 7% 7 China 4% XX% China 2% 2 Austria 3% 1 XX% Austria 3% 1 3 Belgium 1% XX% Belgium 2% 2 Russia 1% XX% Russia 2% 2 Brazil 2% XX% Brazil 1% 1 Other 7% XX% Other 7% 7 XX% Total 100% 0 Total 100% 100 96 Stora Enso 2019: Financials – Stora Enso as a taxpayer Strategy Taxes paid in major countries of operation Annual Report 2019 Year Ended 31 December Taxes borne Corporate income tax Employment taxes Operational taxes Total EUR million Primary activity 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Finland Production 0 1 76 90 20 13 96 104 Sweden Production and sales 84 71 93 89 7 7 184 167 Financials Germany UK Production and sales Sales 10 0 -1 0 11 1 12 1 4 0 5 0 25 1 16 1 Poland Production and sales 13 17 7 6 5 7 25 30 Stora Enso in 2019 China Production and sales 7 8 15 14 7 29 29 51 Austria Production and sales 14 12 13 13 1 0 28 25 Report of the Belgium Production and sales 17 18 10 10 4 4 31 32 Board of Directors Sustainability Russia Production and sales 10 11 3 3 7 5 20 19 Brazil Production 3 2 3 3 8 3 14 8 Consolidated financial Other 20 13 20 19 5 4 45 36 statements Total 178 152 252 260 68 77 498 489 Notes to the Consolidated financial statements Year Ended 31 December Taxes collected Total taxes paid Parent Company Stora Enso VAT & similar1 Payroll taxes Other taxes Total Oyj financial statements EUR million Primary activity 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Notes to the parent company Finland Production 37 35 143 143 96 78 276 256 372 360 financial statements Sweden Production and sales 77 78 85 87 0 0 162 165 346 332 Germany Production and sales 51 69 25 25 0 0 76 94 101 110 Signatures for the financial UK Sales 73 79 2 2 0 0 75 81 76 82 statements Poland Production and sales 25 42 10 10 0 0 35 52 60 82 China Production and sales 20 8 10 11 0 1 30 20 59 71 Financials Auditor’s report Austria Production and sales 11 9 16 16 0 0 27 25 55 50 Belgium Production and sales 3 6 8 9 0 0 11 15 42 47 Stora Enso in capital markets Russia Production and sales 10 11 2 1 0 0 12 12 32 31 Brazil Production 4 3 2 2 7 6 13 11 27 19 Stora Enso as a taxpayer Other 27 34 22 20 1 2 50 56 95 92 Total 338 374 325 326 104 87 767 787 1 265 1 276 Capacities by mill in 2020 1 VAT, goods and services taxes and similar turnover related taxes Information for shareholders Stora Enso did not pay any corporate income tax in Finland in 2019 because of tax losses carried forward Taxes borne include all tax and tax-like payments that Stora Enso has paid as own taxes. Tax-like from previous years. The tax losses of EUR 328 million (332 million) carried forward in Finland are the result payments include other forms of government revenue raised outside of the tax regime, such as payments of several factors including high closure and restructuring costs incurred in the past. for emission rights or social security payments. All companies within the scope of Stora Enso’s tax footprint are consolidated or joint operations, which Taxes collected include all tax and tax-like payments that Stora Enso has collected on behalf of the have been consolidated proportionally with Stora Enso’s share amounting to at least 50%. Consolidation government, including e.g. payroll taxes as well as VAT and similar sales-related taxes paid by Stora Enso. includes all companies that have either at least 10 employees or a turnover of EUR 5 million or above. The economic burden for such taxes ends up with the buyer or final consumer. If a Stora Enso company was in a recovery position regarding VAT or energy taxation in a specific Stora Enso’s tax footprint figures also reflect governmental incentives granted in the form of reduced tax Governance country, tax payments for this company have been reported at NIL. rates or tax exemption, by reporting lower tax payments. However, governmental support is often granted in the form of subsidies, particularly in relation to energy consumption or favoured investments, which are not considered in our tax footprint calculations. 97 Stora Enso 2019: Financials – Capacities by mill in 2020 Strategy Unaudited Annual Report 2019 Capacities by mill in 2020 Packaging Materials Packaging Solutions Financials Consumer board Location Grade Capacity 1 000 t Corrugated packaging Grade Capacity million m2 Beihai CHN LPB, CKB, FSB, FBB 470 Baltic states Corrugated packaging 145 Stora Enso in 2019 Fors SWE FBB 455 Kaunas Imatra FIN SBS, FBB, LPB 1 195 Riga Report of the Ingerois FIN FBB 280 Tallinn Board of Directors Sustainability Skoghall SWE LPB, CUK 885 Finland Corrugated packaging 150 Total 3 285 Lahti Consolidated financial Kristiinankaupunki statements Poland Corrugated packaging 435 Containerboards Location Grade Capacity 1 000 t Heinola FIN SC fluting 300 Łódz Notes to the Consolidated Testliner, PfR fluting, sack paper, Mosina financial statements Ostrołeka POL wrapping paper 725 Ostrołeka Varkaus FIN Kraftliner, white-top kraftliner 390 Tychy Parent Company Stora Enso Total 1 415 Russia Corrugated packaging 365 Oyj financial statements Arzamas Barrier coating Location Grade Capacity 1 000 t Balabanovo Notes to the parent company Beihai CHN Barrier coating 80 Balabanovo offset financial statements Skoghall (Forshaga) SWE Barrier coating 120 Lukhovitsy Imatra FIN Barrier coating 415 Sweden Corrugated packaging 275 Signatures for the financial Total 615 Jönköping statements Skene Financials Auditor’s report Vikingstad Total Corrugated packaging 1 370 Stora Enso in capital markets Stora Enso as a taxpayer China Packaging Location Grade Capacity million pcs Capacity million m2 Gaobu, Dongguan CHN Consumer packaging 390 30 Capacities by mill in 2020 Jiashan, Zhejiang CHN Consumer packaging 145 20 Qian’an, Hebei CHN Consumer packaging 335 25 Information for shareholders Wu Jin, Jiangshu¹ CHN Consumer packaging 65 10 Total 935 85 1 New plant, investment on-going Governance 98 Stora Enso 2019: Financials – Capacities by mill in 2020 Strategy Biomaterials Lignin Annual Report 2019 Mill Location Grade Division Capacity 1 000 t Mill Location Product Division Capacity 1 000 t Short, long-fiber and Sunila FIN Lignin Biomaterials 50 Enocell FIN dissolving pulp Biomaterials 490 Total Lignin 50 Short, long-fiber and Skutskär SWE fluff pulp Biomaterials 540 Sunila FIN Long-fiber pulp Biomaterials 375 Xylose Montes del Plata (50% share) URU Short-fiber pulp Biomaterials 730 Mill Location Product Division Capacity 1 000 t Financials Veracel (50% share) BRA Short-fiber pulp Biomaterials 575 Raceland¹ USA Xylose Biomaterials 10 2 710 Total Xylose 10 Stora Enso in 2019 1 Demonstration plant Report of the Chemical Pulp Board of Directors Wood Products Sustainability Mill Location Grade Division Capacity 1 000 t Neutral Sulphite SemiFurther Consolidated financial Heinola FIN Chemical Pulp Packaging Materials 285 Sawing Processing Pellet statements Kaukopää, Imatra FIN Short and long-fiber Packaging Materials 825 Capacity Capacity capacity CLT capacity LVL capacity Mill Location 1 000 m3 1 000 m3 1 000 t 1 000 m3 1 000 m3 Nymölla SWE Short and long-fiber Paper 340 Notes to the Consolidated Ostrołeka POL Long-fiber Packaging Materials 120 Ala SWE 400 50 100 financial statements Alytus LIT 210 115 Oulu1 FIN Long-fiber Paper 265 Amsterdam NLD 80 Skoghall SWE Long-fiber Packaging Materials 375 Parent Company Stora Enso Tainionkoski, Imatra FIN Short and long-fiber Packaging Materials 195 Bad St. Leonhard AUT 360 105 80 Oyj financial statements Varkaus FIN Short and long-fiber Packaging Materials 310 Brand AUT 440 295 Gruvön1 SWE 370 150 100 50 Veitsiluoto FIN Short and long-fiber Paper 375 Notes to the parent company Chemical Pulp Total Honkalahti FIN 310 70 financial statements (incl. Biomaterials) 5 800 Imavere EST 340 160 100 of which market pulp2 2 150 Impilahti RUS 160 10 25 Signatures for the financial 1 Oulu Mill conversion into kraftliner production will start in September 2020 Launkalne2 LAT 250 60 30 statements 2 market pulp defined as dried pulp shipped out from the mill to external customers. Murow POL 300 210 Nebolchi RUS 180 45 40 Financials Auditor’s report Deinked Pulp (DIP) Näpi EST 50 180 25 Pfarrkirchen3 GER 145 Stora Enso in capital markets Mill Location Grade Division Capacity 1 000 t Planá CZE 390 220 Hylte SWE DIP Paper 290 Uimaharju4 FIN 240 Stora Enso as a taxpayer Langerbrugge BEL DIP Paper 680 Varkaus FIN 210 35 75 Maxau GER DIP Paper 295 Veitsiluoto5 FIN 200 Capacities by mill in 2020 Ostrołeka POL Recycled fiber based pulp Packaging Materials 615 Ybbs AUT 700 450 110 Sachsen GER DIP Paper 430 Zdírec CZE 580 220 80 Information for shareholders Total 2 310 Total 5 690 2 600 500 240 75 1 Gruvön CLT ramping up 2 Launkalne pellets ramping up CTMP 3 Pfarffkirchen sawmill has been divested, the transaction is expected to be completed in the first quarter of 2020 4 Uimaharju sawmill belongs to division Biomaterials Mill Location Grade Division Capacity 1 000 t 5 Veitsiluoto sawmill belongs to division Paper Beihai CHN BCTMP Packaging Materials 210 Biocomposites Governance Fors SWE CTMP Packaging Materials 185 Kaukopää FIN CTMP Packaging Materials 220 Mill Location Product Division Capacity 1 000 t Skoghall SWE CTMP Packaging Materials 270 Hylte SWE Biocomposite Wood Products 15 Total 885 Total Biocomposite 15 99 Stora Enso 2019: Financials – Capacities by mill in 2020 Strategy Paper Annual Report 2019 Mill Location Grade Capacity 1 000 t Anjala FIN Impr. news, book, LWC 435 Hylte SWE News 480 Kvarnsveden SWE SC, news, impr. news 565 Langerbrugge BEL SC, news, impr. news, dir. 555 Maxau GER SC 530 Financials Nymölla Oulu1 SWE FIN WFU WFC 485 810 Sachsen GER News, impr. news,directory 310 Stora Enso in 2019 Veitsiluoto FIN LWC, MWC, WFU 790 Total 4 960 Report of the 1 Oulu Mill conversion into kraftliner production will start in September 2020. Board of Directors Sustainability Consolidated financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Abbreviations used in the tables: BCTMP bleached chemi-thermofinancial statements mechanical pulp CKB coated kraft back board Parent Company Stora Enso CLT cross-laminated timber Oyj financial statements CTMP chemi-thermo-mechanical pulp CUK coated unbleached kraftboard Notes to the parent company DIP deinked pulp financial statements FBB folding boxboard LPB liquid packaging board Signatures for the financial LVL laminated veneer lumber statements LWC light-weight coated paper MWC medium-weight coated paper Financials Auditor’s report PfR paper for recycling SBS solid bleached sulphate board Stora Enso in capital markets SC super-calendered paper WFC wood free coated paper Stora Enso as a taxpayer WFU wood free uncoated paper The formula: (Sum of net saleable production Capacities by mill in 2020 of two best consecutive months / Available time of these two consecutive months) × Information for shareholders Available time of the year Governance 100 Stora Enso 2019: Financials – Information for shareholders Strategy Unaudited Annual Report 2019 Information for shareholders Annual General Meeting (AGM) Information for holders of American Depositary Receipts (ADRs) Financials Stora Enso Oyj’s Annual General Meeting (AGM) will be held on Thursday 19 March 2020 at 4.00 p.m. The Stora Enso dividend reinvestment and direct purchase plan is administered by Citibank N.A. The Finnish time at the Marina Congress Center, Katajanokanlaituri 6, Helsinki, Finland. plan makes it easier for existing ADR holders and first-time purchasers of Stora Enso ADRs to increase Nominee-registered shareholders wishing to attend and vote at the AGM must have shares that would their investment by reinvesting cash distributions or by making additional cash investments. The plan Stora Enso in 2019 entitle to being registered in the Company shareholders’ register on the record date 9 March 2020 and is intended for US residents only. Further information on the Stora Enso ADR programme is available at must be temporarily registered in the Stora Enso shareholders’ register by 16 March 2020. For shares citi.com/DR. Report of the registered through Euroclear Sweden and for holders of ADRs the timetable may vary and earlier dates Board of Directors Contact information for Stora Enso ADR holders Sustainability apply. Instructions for submitting notice of attendance is given in the invitation to the AGM, which can be consulted on Stora Enso’s website at storaenso.com/agm. Citibank Shareholder Services Consolidated financial Computershare statements AGM and dividend in 2020 P.O. Box 43077 9 March Record date for AGM Providence, Rhode Island 02940-3077 Notes to the Consolidated 19 March Annual General Meeting (AGM) Email: citibank@shareholders-online.com 20 March Ex-dividend date financial statements 23 March Record date for dividend Toll-free number: (877)-CITI-ADR 30 March Dividend payment Direct dial: (781) 575-4555 Parent Company Stora Enso Oyj financial statements Dividend Contacts The Board of Directors proposes to the AGM that a dividend of EUR 394 309 993.50 per share will be Ulla Paajanen Notes to the parent company paid to the shareholders for the fiscal year ending 31 December 2019. The dividend payable on shares SVP, Investor Relations financial statements registered with Euroclear Sweden will be forwarded by Euroclear Sweden AB and paid in Swedish crowns. Stora Enso Oyj The dividend payable to ADR holders will be forwarded by Citibank N.A. (Citi) and paid in US dollars. P.O. Box 309, FI-00101 Helsinki, Finland Signatures for the financial Tel. +358 40 763 8767, ulla.paajanen@storaenso.com statements Publications dates for 2020 30 January Financial results for 2019 storaenso.com Financials Auditor’s report Week 7 Annual Report 2019 group.communications@storaenso.com 21 April Interim report for January-March Stora Enso in capital markets 21 July Half-year report for January-June 20 October Interim report for January-September Stora Enso as a taxpayer Distribution of financial information Stora Enso’s Annual Report 2019 consists of four sections: Strategy, Sustainability, Financials, and Capacities by mill in 2020 Governance. You can find the highlights of the year and all reports as downloadable PDF files at storaenso.com/annualreport. Information for shareholders Summary and Governance are available in English, Finnish and Swedish. Strategy, Sustainability and Financials are available in English. The official financial statements (in Finnish) and a list of principal subsidiaries (in English) can be found on the company’s website. Interim reports and Half-year reports are published in English, Finnish and Swedish at storaenso.com/press. Governance Strategy Annual Report 2019 Governance Governance covers Part of Stora Enso’s Annual Report 2019 Stora Enso’s governance policy, practices, and actions, as well as our remuneration statement. Sustainability Financials Governance Strategy Annual Report 2019 Contents Corporate Governance in Stora Enso 2019 ......................................2 Shareholders’ meetings .........................................................................2 Board of Directors (Board) .....................................................................3 Sustainability Board committees ..................................................................................7 Management of the Company ...............................................................8 Internal control and risk management related to financial reporting ................................................................10 Remuneration Statement ................................................................. 11 Decision-making procedure ................................................................ 11 Main principles of remuneration .......................................................... 11 Remuneration Report 2019 .................................................................. 13 Members of the Board of Directors ................................................. 15 Members of the Group Leadership Team ....................................... 17 Appendix 1...........................................................................................19 Financials Print optimised A4 Download printable PDF of Governance Stora Enso’s Annual Report 2019 2 Corporate Governance Stora Enso 2019: Governance – Corporate Governance in Stora Enso 2019 Strategy Annual Report 2019 in Stora Enso 2019 Governance The duties of the various bodies within Stora Enso Oyj (“Stora Enso” Objectives and composition of governance bodies Chair, Vice Chair and the members of the Board of Directors as well as Corporate Governance or the “Company”) are determined by the laws of Finland and by The shareholders exercise their ownership rights through the the Auditor. in Stora Enso 2019 the Company’s corporate governance policy, which complies with shareholders’ meetings. The decision-making bodies with Shareholders may exercise their voting rights and take part in the the Finnish Companies Act and the Finnish Securities Market Act. responsibility for managing the Company are the Board and the CEO. decision-making process of Stora Enso by attending shareholders’ Shareholders’ meetings Sustainability The rules and recommendations of the Nasdaq Helsinki Oy and The Group Leadership Team (GLT) supports the CEO in managing meetings. Shareholders also have the right to ask questions of the Board of Directors (Board) Nasdaq Stockholm AB stock exchanges are also followed, where the Company. Company’s management and Board of Directors at shareholders’ Board committees applicable. The corporate governance policy is approved by the Day-to-day operational responsibility rests with the GLT meetings. Major decisions are taken by the shareholders at Annual Board of Directors (“Board”). members and their operation teams supported by various staff and or Extraordinary General Meetings. At a shareholders’ meeting, each Management of the Company Stora Enso complies with the Finnish Corporate Governance Code service functions. A share and each ten R shares carry one vote. Internal control and risk management 2020 issued by the Securities Market Association (the “Code”) with The Board of Directors convenes a shareholders’ meeting by related to financial reporting the exception of the Remuneration Statement, which is prepared publishing a notice to the meeting at the Company’s website not according to the Finnish Corporate Governance Code 2015. The Code Governance bodies more than three (3) months before the last day for advance notice Remuneration Statement is available at cgfinland.fi. Stora Enso also complies with the Swedish of attendance mentioned in the notice to the meeting and not less Corporate Governance Code (“Swedish Code”), with the exception than three weeks before the date of the meeting. In addition, the Decision making procedure of the deviations listed in Appendix 1 of this Corporate Governance Shareholders’ meeting Company publishes details on the date and location of the meeting, Main principles of remuneration Report. The deviations are due to differences between the Swedish together with the address of the Company’s website, in at least two Shareholders’ Nomination Board Remuneration Report 2019 and Finnish legislation, governance code rules and practices, and Finnish and two Swedish newspapers. Other regulatory notices to the in these cases Stora Enso follows the practice in its domicile. The shareholders are delivered in the same way. Members of the Board Swedish Code is issued by the Swedish Corporate Governance Board The AGM shall be held yearly by the end of June in Helsinki, of Directors and is available at corporategovernanceboard.se. Board of Directors Finland. The Finnish Companies Act and Stora Enso’s Articles of This Corporate Governance Report is available as a PDF Financial and Audit Committee – Renumeration Committee – Association specify in detail that the following matters have to be dealt Members of the Group document at storaenso.com/investors/governance. Sustainability and Ethics Committee with at the AGM: Financials Leadership Team • presentation and adoption of the annual accounts General governance issues • presentation of the report of the Board of Directors and the The Board and the President and CEO are responsible for the President and CEO Auditor’s report Appendix 1 management of the Company. Other governance bodies have an Ethics and Compliance Management Committee – • use of the result and distribution of funds to the shareholders assisting and supporting role. Group Leadership Team (GLT) • resolution concerning discharge of the members of the Board and The Stora Enso group prepares Consolidated financial statements the CEO from liability and Interim Reports conforming to International Financial Reporting • presentation of remuneration policy and/or report Standards (IFRS), and publishes Annual Reports as well as Interim Auditing • decision on the number and the remuneration of the members of Reports in Finnish, Swedish and English language. Stora Enso Oyj the Board and the Auditor prepares its Financial statements in accordance with the Finnish Internal Audit External Audit • election of the Chair, Vice Chair and other members of the Board Accounting Act. and the Auditor The Company’s head office is in Helsinki, Finland. It also has head • any other matters notified separately in the notice to the meeting. office functions in Stockholm, Sweden. Stora Enso has one statutory auditor elected by the shareholders Shareholders’ meetings In addition, the AGM shall take decisions on matters proposed by at the Annual General Meeting (AGM). The Annual General Meeting of shareholders (AGM) is held annually to the Board of Directors. A shareholder may also propose items for To the maximum extent possible, corporate actions and corporate present detailed information about the Company’s performance and inclusion in the agenda provided that they are within the authority of Governance records are taken and recorded in English. to deal with matters such as adopting the annual accounts, setting the the shareholders’ meeting and the Board of Directors was asked to dividend (or distribution of funds) and its payment, and appointing the include the items in the agenda no later than on the date set out by 3 Stora Enso 2019: Governance – Corporate Governance in Stora Enso 2019 Strategy the Company, which must be not earlier than four weeks before the Annual Report 2019 publication of the notice to the meeting and which will be announced In 2019 at the Company’s website no later than by the end of the financial year The Shareholders’ Nomination Board in 2019 comprised four For the purpose of carrying out its tasks, the Shareholders’ preceding the AGM. members: Jorma Eloranta (Chair of the Board), Hans Stråberg Nomination Board has received the results of the yearly evaluation An Extraordinary General Meeting of Shareholders is convened (Vice Chair of the Board) and two other members appointed by the of the Board of Directors as well as the assessment of each when considered necessary by the Board of Directors or when two largest shareholders, namely Harri Sailas (Solidium Oy) and director’s independence of the Company and of significant requested in writing by the Auditor or shareholders together holding Marcus Wallenberg (FAM AB). Marcus Wallenberg was elected shareholders. The Board performance evaluation material has also a minimum of one tenth of all the shares to discuss a specified matter Chair of the Shareholders’ Nomination Board. included a report on Board member interviews by the Chair of the which they have indicated. The main tasks of the Shareholders’ Nomination Board were Board of Directors. The Shareholders’ Nomination Board has taken Governance to prepare the proposals for the AGM 2020 concerning Board the results of the Board evaluation and the requirements relating to members and their remuneration. In addition, the Shareholders’ director independence into account in its work. The Shareholders’ In 2019 Nomination Board has reviewed relevant parts of the Company’s Nomination Board further considers the principles of the Board Corporate Governance Stora Enso’s AGM was held on 14 March 2019 in Helsinki, new Remuneration Policy and approved the proposal as regards Diversity Policy in preparing its proposal. The Shareholders’ in Stora Enso 2019 Finland. Of all issued and outstanding shares in the Company Board remuneration. The Shareholders’ Nomination Board during Nomination Board has a Charter that defines its tasks and a total of 59.4% of all shares (57.8% in 2018) and a total of its working period 2019–2020 convened five (5) times. Each responsibilities in more detail. Shareholders’ meetings Sustainability 80.9% of all votes (71.4%) were represented at the meeting, member of the Shareholders’ Nomination Board attended all the Board of Directors (Board) with 91.6% of all A shares (78.1%) and 50.1% of all R shares meetings. Jorma Eloranta and Hans Stråberg have not participated Remuneration Board committees (52.0%) represented. All Board and GLT members as well as in the preparations or the decision-making regarding Board No remuneration is paid for members of the Shareholders’ the Company’s Auditor were present at the meeting. The AGM remuneration. Nomination Board as decided by the AGM. The Shareholders’ Management of the Company in addition to regular matters authorised the Board to decide In its proposal for the AGM 2020, the Shareholders’ Nomination Nomination Board Charter is presented at storaenso.com/ Internal control and risk management on a share issue or share repurchase covering a maximum Board proposes that of the current members of the Board of investors/governance. related to financial reporting of 2 000 000 R shares in order to carry out the Company’s Directors – Jorma Eloranta, Elisabeth Fleuriot, Hock Goh, Mikko compensation or remuneration schemes. No Extraordinary Helander, Christiane Kuehne, Antti Mäkinen, Richard Nilsson and Remuneration Statement Composition of the Shareholders’ Nomination Board in 2019 General Meetings of Shareholders were convened in 2019. Hans Stråberg be re-elected members of the Board of Directors until the end of the following AGM and that Håkan Buskhe be Jorma Eloranta¹, member Hans Stråberg¹, member Decision making procedure Chair of Stora Enso’s Board of Vice Chair of Stora Enso’s Board elected new member of the Board of Directors for the same term Directors of Directors Main principles of remuneration Shareholders’ Nomination Board of office. It is proposed that Jorma Eloranta be elected Chair Marcus Wallenberg, Chair Harri Sailas, member Remuneration Report 2019 Shareholders at the Annual General Meeting (AGM) have established of the Board and Hans Stråberg Vice Chair of the Board. The Chair of Stora Enso’s Shareholders’ Member of Stora Enso’s a Shareholders’ Nomination Board to exist until otherwise decided Shareholders’ Nomination Board also proposes that the annual Nomination Board. Born 1956. B.Sc. Shareholders’ Nomination Board. Members of the Board and to annually prepare proposals to the shareholders’ meeting remuneration for the Chair, Vice Chair and members of the Board (Foreign Service). Chair of the Board Born 1951. Econ. Chair of the of Directors concerning: of Directors as well as for the Chairs and members of Board of Directors of FAM AB. Board of Directors of Solidium Oy. • the number of members of the Board; Committees be increased by approximately 2.5–3 percent. 1 Curriculum vitae of Jorma Eloranta and Hans Stråberg, see page 15. Members of the Group • the Chair, Vice Chair and other members of the Board; Financials Leadership Team • the remuneration for the Chair, Vice Chair and members of the Board; • the remuneration for the Chair and members of the committees of members that annually are appointed by the Company’s two obligation to purchase the corresponding number of already issued Appendix 1 the Board. largest shareholders. shares. The independence is evaluated yearly in accordance with the The Shareholders’ Nomination Board shall serve until further Finnish Corporate Governance Code. The AGM has approved the Charter of the Shareholders’ Nomination notice, unless the AGM decides otherwise. Its members are elected All directors are required to deal at arm’s length with the Company Board and shall approve any proposed amendments of the Charter, annually and their term of office shall end when new members are and its subsidiaries and to disclose circumstances that might be other than technical updates. elected to replace them. perceived as a conflict of interest. The Shareholder’s Nomination Board according to its Charter The shareholders at the AGM decide the remuneration of the comprises four members: Board of Directors (Board) Board members (including the remuneration of the members of the • the Chair of the Board; Stora Enso is managed by the Board acting in accordance with the Board committees). • the Vice Chair of the Board; Finnish Companies Act as well as other applicable legislation. The Board supervises the operation and management of • two members appointed annually by the two largest shareholders According to the Company’s Articles of Association, the Board Stora Enso and decides on significant matters relating to strategy, (one each) as of 31 August. comprises six to eleven ordinary members appointed by the investments, organisation and finance. shareholders at the AGM for a one-year term. The majority of the The Board is responsible for overseeing management and for The Board through its Chair shall ensure that the annual appointment directors shall be independent of the Company. In addition, at least the proper organisation of the Company’s operations. It is likewise Governance of the members to the Shareholders’ Nomination Board is carried two of the directors comprising this majority shall be independent of responsible for overseeing the proper supervision of accounting and out as set out in the Charter as decided by the AGM. The Board significant shareholders of the Company. A significant shareholder is a control of financial matters. Chair shall annually convene the first meeting of the Shareholders’ shareholder that holds at least 10% of all the Company’s shares or the The Board has defined a working order, the principles of which are Nomination Board, which shall elect its Chair amongst its votes carried by all the shares or a shareholder that has the right or the published on page 6 of this report and on the Company’s website. 4 Stora Enso 2019: Governance – Corporate Governance in Stora Enso 2019 Strategy The AGM elects the Chair and Vice Chair of the Board. Should requirements set by the Company operations and its development Board finds that the composition of the Board as proposed to Annual Report 2019 the Chair or Vice Chair of the Board of Directors resign or become stage. The number of directors and the composition of the Board shall the AGM 2020 reflects diversity and a good variety of skills and otherwise unable to act as Chair or Vice Chair during their term of be such that they enable the Board to see to its duties efficiently. Both experiences among the Board members following the principles set office, the Board may elect a new Chair or Vice Chair from among its genders shall be represented on the Board and the aim of the Company out in the Board Diversity Policy except as regards the aim to ensure a members for the remaining term of office. shall be to strive towards a good and balanced gender distribution. good and balanced gender diversity. The Board yearly agrees on focus areas for the Board’s work The Shareholders’ Nomination Board has taken the principles of The Board Diversity Policy is presented at storaenso.com/ during the upcoming year constituting the Board Agenda. the policy into account in its work. The Shareholders’ Nomination investors/governance. The Board appoints the CEO, Chief Financial Officer (CFO) and other GLT members. The Board approves the main organisational Governance structure of the Company. The Board reviews and determines the remuneration of the CEO, which is described in the Annual Report and on the Company’s In 2019 experience from global companies and industrial sectors. All Corporate Governance website. The Board and each of its Committees evaluates its The Board had nine members at the end of 2019, all of them Board members have university degrees from different fields with in Stora Enso 2019 performance annually. The results of the Board’s evaluation independent of the Company. The Board members are also a majority in the field of economics and finance in addition to which are reviewed by the Board and shall be communicated to the independent of significant shareholders of the Company with the two members hold a doctorate degree. All members have vast Shareholders’ meetings Sustainability Shareholders’ Nomination Board, which shall take the results of the exception of Richard Nilsson (Investment Manager at FAM AB), experience from global companies either from earlier operative Board of Directors (Board) Board evaluation into account in its work. The Board also reviews the Göran Sandberg (Executive director of majority shareholders of positions or through board memberships. A detailed description Board committees corporate governance policy annually and amends it when required. FAM AB) and Antti Mäkinen (CEO of Solidium). Hans Stråberg of the educational and professional backgrounds of the Board The Board’s work is supported through its committees the having served on the Board for more than ten years, is based on an members can be found on pages 15-16. Management of the Company Financial and Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee and overall evaluation concluded independent of the Company. The Board members represent a good knowledge of the Internal control and risk management the Sustainability and Ethics Committee. Each committee’s Chair and The Board members nominated at the AGM in 2019 were operational environment of the Company as well as particular related to financial reporting members are appointed by the Board annually. Jorma Eloranta (Chair), Hans Stråberg (Vice Chair), Elisabeth experience of amongst others sustainability, financial competence The Board meets at least five times a year. The Board members Fleuriot, Hock Goh, Mikko Helander, Christiane Kuehne, Antti and the business environment relevant to the operations of the Remuneration Statement meet regularly without management in connection with the Mäkinen, Richard Nilsson and Göran Sandberg. The Board Company. The age of the Board members during 2019 varied from Board meetings. convened 12 times during the year. The members’ participation 48 years to 68 years and the Board was composed of two women Decision making procedure rate in meetings amounted to 100%. and seven men. Main principles of remuneration Board Diversity Policy In its meeting after the AGM on 14 March 2019 the Board The Shareholders’ Nomination Board has in 2019 considered Remuneration Report 2019 The Company has established a Board Diversity Policy setting out the discussed focus areas for its work. The Board agreed that these its previous evaluation of competencies that may be further principles concerning the diversity of the Board. The Shareholders’ areas for the year to come should be (1) acceleration of growth, strengthened in the long term Board succession planning. In its Members of the Board Nomination Board shall in connection with preparing its proposals for (2) improvement of efficiency and productivity and (3) talent proposal for the AGM 2020 the Shareholders’ Nomination Board has of Directors the nomination of directors to the AGM consider the principles of the management. Various matters have been discussed, reviewed and proposed a Board composition that includes two women and seven Company’s Board Diversity Policy. decided in the Board based on the agenda. Further, the CEO has men in the age range of 49 years to 69 years and representing a Members of the Group Directors shall be nominated on the basis of their merits and with on a monthly basis reported progress on the same to the Board. total of five different nationalities. The proposed new Board member Financials Leadership Team consideration of the benefits of diversity and the principles that the The Board has conducted an internal self-evaluation relating to Håkan Buskhe would bring a strong industrial operative background Company refers to as Diversity of Thought, including but not limited the Board’s work, which together with the evaluation of the Board and management as well as industrial competence and experience to criteria of diversity such as gender, age, nationality and individual members’ independence has been provided to the Shareholders’ to the Board and would in the view of the Shareholders’ Nomination Appendix 1 differences both in professional and personal experiences. The merits Nomination Board for information. The Board performance Board add strong value to the Board as a collective. of directors include knowledge of the operational environment of the evaluation has also included Board member interviews performed The aim of the Shareholders’ Nomination Board going forward Company, its markets and of the industry within which it operates, and by the Board Chair, the result of which has been reported to the is to continuously evaluate the long-term competencies that would may include elements such as financial, sustainability or other specific Shareholders’ Nomination Board. For detailed information about benefit the Board work as well as ensure that a Diversity of Thought competency, geographical representation and business background the Board members and their share ownerships, see pages 15-16. is maintained on the Board. The Shareholders’ Nomination Board as required in order to achieve the appropriate balance of diversity, particularly notes that the aim going forward is to strengthen the skills, experience and expertise of the Board collectively. The foremost Board Diversity in 2019 gender distribution of the Board with view of ensuring a good and criteria for nominating director candidates shall be the candidates’ skills The Board has during 2019 been composed of nine members balanced gender distribution in accordance with the Company’s and experiences, industrial knowledge as well as personal qualities representing five different nationalities and a diverse range of Board Diversity Policy. and integrity. The composition of the Board as a whole shall reflect the Governance 5 Stora Enso 2019: Governance – Corporate Governance in Stora Enso 2019 Strategy Board skills matrix Annual Report 2019 Independent of Committee memberships 2019 Name Director since Principal skills Company Owners FAC SECo RemCo Other current listed boards Global Business, Business Leadership, Jorma Eloranta 2016 Operative Management, Governance Member Chair 1 Global Business, Business Leadership, Hans Stråberg 2009 Operative Management, Industry Member 3 Global Business, Operative Management, Governance Elisabeth Fleuriot 2013 Business Leadership, Sustainability Global Business, Operative Management, Member Hock Goh 2012 Business Leadership, Sustainability Member 3 Corporate Governance Global Business, Business Leadership, Mikko Helander 2019 Operative Management, Industry in Stora Enso 2019 Global Business, Operative Management, Christiane Kuehne 2017 Business Leadership, Sustainability Chair Shareholders’ meetings Sustainability Finance, Operative Management, Board of Directors (Board) Antti Mäkinen 2018 Governance Member 2 Finance, Industry, Governance, Global Board committees Richard Nilsson 2014 Business Chair Management of the Company Science and Forestry, Academic, Göran Sandberg 2017 Innovation, Sustainability Member Internal control and risk management related to financial reporting yes no The table sets out the primary skills of each Board member. The fact that an item is not highlighted for a Board member does not mean that such member does not possess that qualification or skill. Remuneration Statement Decision making procedure Main principles of remuneration Remuneration Report 2019 Principal skills Board diversity in figures Members of the Board Innovation Tenure Gender Age* of Directors Science and Forestry Number of persons Number of persons Number of persons Finance Global Business 1 1 1 Members of the Group 2 1–2 years 2 Male 40–50 Financials Sustainability 3–5 years Female 51–60 Leadership Team Operative Management Governance 6–9 years 61–65 Business Leadership 2 ≥10 years >65 Appendix 1 Industry 3 Academic * at 31 December 2019 Number of Board members 0 2 4 6 8 Principal skills 3 7 5 Legend Exact value Principal skills Male 7 Female 2 Legend Exact value Legend Exact value Innovation 1 Science and Forestry 1 1–2 years 2 40–50 1 Finance 2 3–5 years 3 51–60 2 Governance Global Business 7 6–9 years 3 61–65 5 Sustainability 4 ≥10 years 1 >65 1 Operative Management 7 Governance 3 Business Leadership 6 Industry 3 Academic 1 6 Stora Enso 2019: Governance – Corporate Governance in Stora Enso 2019 Strategy Working order of the Board Information Matters to be handled at Board meetings Annual Report 2019 The working order describes the working practices of the Board. • the Board shall receive information monthly concerning financial • matters specified by the Finnish Companies Act; A summary of key contents is presented below. performance, the market situation and significant events within the • approval of business strategy: Company’s and the group’s operations; • organisational and personnel matters; Board meetings • Board members shall be informed about all significant events – decisions concerning the basic top management organisation; • occur regularly, at least five times a year, according to a schedule immediately. – decisions concerning the composition of the GLT; decided in advance; – remuneration of the CEO; • special Board meetings, if requested by a Board member or the – appointment and dismissal of the CEO and approval of heads of CEO, be held within 14 days of the date of request; divisions and other members based on CEO’s proposal; Governance • agenda and material shall be delivered to Board members one – appointment of Committee Chairs and members; week before the meeting. – remuneration of GLT members based on CEO’s proposal; – review talent management and succession planning process Corporate Governance (in particular CEO); in Stora Enso 2019 The Board of Directors’ and management’s annual working cycle • economic and financial matters: Shareholders’ meetings Sustainability – approval and review of annual budget; Board of Directors (Board) – approval of loans and guarantees, excluding intra-group loans Board committees Board meeting Ethics and Compliance and guarantees; SECo, FAC, RemCo Management Committee meeting – approval of share repurchases, if any, as well as report of share Management of the Company repurchases; Internal control and risk management Inside Committee meeting Inside Committee meeting – approval of Group Risk Management Policy according to related to financial reporting Financial and Audit Committee’s proposal; Board meeting (Full year and Remuneration Statement Ethics and Compliance Q4 + annual governance update) • investment matters: Management Committee meeting SECo, FAC, RemCo – approval of investment policy of the group; Decision making procedure Board meeting (Q3) – approval of major investments; Main principles of remuneration FAC, RemCo Inside Committee meeting – approval of major divestments; Remuneration Report 2019 – receive relevant analyst meeting presentations and Inside Committee meeting Annual General Meeting analyst reports; Members of the Board Q4 Q1 Board meeting of Directors SECo • other matters: – report of the CEO on the group’s operations; Members of the Group – reports of the Remuneration Committee, Financial and Audit Financials Leadership Team Committee and Sustainability and Ethics Committee by the Board meeting (strategy) chairs of the respective committees. The recommendations Q3 Q2 and proposals by the Shareholders’ Nomination Board shall be Appendix 1 SECo, FAC reported to the Board by the Chair of the Board; – approval and regular review of the Corporate Governance Policy Inside Committee meeting Ethics and Compliance and the charters of the Board Committees; Ethics and Compliance Management Committee meeting – annual self-assessment of Board work and performance as well Management Committee meeting as independence; Inside Committee meeting • other matters submitted by a member of the Board or the CEO. Board meeting (Q2) FAC Board meeting (Q1) Inside Committee meeting FAC, RemCo Governance Quarterly Monthly SECo = Sustainability and Ethics Committee Meetings with auditors GLT meetings FAC = Financial and Audit Committee Divisional Business and Innovation Review meetings Investment Working Group meetings RemCo = Remuneration Committee 7 Stora Enso 2019: Governance – Corporate Governance in Stora Enso 2019 Strategy Board committees Committee must have sufficient expertise and experience to be able to The Committee comprises three to four Board members, who are Annual Report 2019 The tasks and responsibilities of the Board committees are defined in challenge and evaluate the Company’s internal accounting function and independent and not affiliated with the Company. The Remuneration their charters, which are approved by the Board. All the committees internal and external audit functions. At least one member must have the Committee meets regularly, at least once a year. The Chair of the evaluate their performance annually, are allowed to use external relevant expertise in accounting and auditing as required by applicable Remuneration Committee presents a report on each Remuneration consultants and experts when necessary and shall have access to regulation. The Financial and Audit Committee meets regularly, at least Committee meeting to the Board. The tasks and responsibilities all information needed. Each committee’s Chair and members are four times a year. The Committee members meet the external and internal of the Remuneration Committee are defined in its charter, which appointed by the Board annually. auditors regularly without the management being present. The Chair of is approved by the Board. Remuneration Committee members the Committee presents a report on each Financial and Audit Committee may receive remuneration solely based on their role as directors. Financial and Audit Committee meeting to the Board. The tasks and responsibilities of the Financial The compensation is decided by the shareholders at the AGM. Governance The Board has a Financial and Audit Committee to support the Board and Audit Committee are defined in its charter, which is approved in maintaining the integrity of the Company’s financial reporting and by the Board. Financial and Audit Committee members may receive Sustainability and Ethics Committee the Board’s control functions. It regularly reviews and monitors the remuneration solely based on their role as directors. The compensation is The Board has a Sustainability and Ethics Committee which is Corporate Governance system of internal control and internal audit as well as its efficiency, decided by the shareholders at the AGM. responsible for overseeing the Company’s sustainability and ethical in Stora Enso 2019 management and reporting of financial risks, the audit process, the business conduct, its strive to be a responsible corporate citizen, Company’s procedures for monitoring related party transactions Remuneration Committee and its contribution to sustainable development. The Committee Shareholders’ meetings Sustainability and the annual corporate governance statement. It makes The Board has a Remuneration Committee which is responsible regularly reviews Stora Enso’s Sustainability Strategy and Ethics and Board of Directors (Board) recommendations regarding the appointment of external auditor for for recommending and evaluating executive nominations and Compliance Strategy and, in accordance with Stora Enso’s corporate Board committees the Parent Company and the main subsidiaries and monitors the remunerations (including reviewing and recommending the CEO’s governance structure, oversees their effective implementation as well auditor’s independence. remuneration), evaluating the performance of the CEO, and making as reviews the Company’s external sustainability reporting. In its work Management of the Company The Committee comprises three to five Board members, who are recommendations to the Board relating to management remuneration the Committee takes into consideration Stora Enso’s Purpose and Internal control and risk management independent and not affiliated with the Company. The members of the issues generally, including equity incentive remuneration plans. Values as well as the Stora Enso Code and Business Practice Policy. related to financial reporting There is a Remuneration Committee representative present at the The Committee comprises two to four Board members who are AGM to answer questions relating to the management remuneration. nominated annually by the Board. The members are independent of Remuneration Statement In 2019 The Board appoints the CEO and approves his/her remuneration as and not affiliated with Stora Enso. At least one Committee member is The Financial and Audit Committee comprised three members well as the nomination and compensation of other members of the expected to have sufficient prior knowledge and experience in handling Decision making procedure in 2019: Richard Nilsson (Chair), Jorma Eloranta and Elisabeth Group Leadership Team (GLT). responsibility and ethics matters. Main principles of remuneration Fleuriot.1 The Committee convened eight times. The members’ The Committee meets regularly, at least two times a year. The Chair Remuneration Report 2019 participation rate in meetings amounted to 100%. of the Committee presents a report on each Sustainability and Ethics The main task of the Committee is to support the Board in In 2019 Committee meeting to the Board. The tasks and responsibilities of Members of the Board maintaining the integrity of Stora Enso’s financial reporting and The Remuneration Committee comprised three members in of Directors the Board’s control functions. To fulfil its task the Committee 2019. The members were Jorma Eloranta (Chair), Antti Mäkinen regularly reviews the Company’s system of internal control, and Hans Stråberg.1 The Committee convened ten times. The In 2019 Members of the Group management and reporting of financial and enterprise risks members’ participation rate in meetings amounted to 100%. The Sustainability and Ethics Committee comprised three Financials Leadership Team as well as the audit process. Furthermore, the Committee has During 2019 the Committee has been in charge of the members in 2019: Christiane Kuehne (Chair), Hock Goh and increased its focus on IT security and closely monitors related recruitment process relating to the election of a new CEO. Göran Sandberg.1 The Committee convened four times. The risks. International Accounting Standard IAS 41 concerning In addition, the main tasks of the Committee has been to members’ participation rate in meetings amounted to 100%. Appendix 1 biological asset valuation has been in focus during the year in recommend, evaluate and approve executive nominations and The Committee in each of its meetings reviews the areas particular due to the Company’s acquisition of Swedish forest remunerations, and to make recommendations to the Board relevant for the Committee’s work, including safety and assets. Also the implementation of the Company’s new guidance relating to management remuneration in general, including short sustainability matters as well as ethics and compliance matters. on the monitoring of related party transactions has been a and long term incentive programmes. The Committee has further The Committee further reviews safety status and sustainability and focus area. The Committee further reviews relevant material reviewed the external reporting on executive remuneration and ethics and compliance KPI’s, sustainability reporting as well as compliance related cases relating to the integrity of financial prepared for the Board’s and the Shareholders’ Nomination relevant sustainability and safety initiatives and processes carried reporting or fraud investigations that have been reported to Board’s approval the new Stora Enso Remuneration Policy, out during the year. An important part of the Committee’s work Internal Audit and Ethics and Compliance during the year. which will be presented to the AGM 2020. consists of overseeing reported compliance cases. Remuneration Remuneration Remuneration Chair EUR 20 600 per annum and member EUR 14 400 per Chair EUR 10 300 and member EUR 6 200 per annum as Chair EUR 10 300 and member EUR 6 200 per annum annum as decided by the AGM. decided by the AGM. as decided by the AGM. The Financial and Audit Committee Charter is presented at The Remuneration Committee Charter is presented at The Sustainability and Ethics Committee Charter is Governance storaenso.com/investors/governance. storaenso.com/investors/governance. presented at storaenso.com/investors/governance. 1 The Committee prior to the AGM on 14 March 2019 comprised the following 1 The Committee prior to the AGM on 14 March 2019 comprised the following 1 The Committee prior to the AGM on 14 March 2019 comprised the following four members: Richard Nilsson (Chair), Jorma Eloranta, Christiane Kuehne and three members: Jorma Eloranta (Chair), Elisabeth Fleuriot and Hans Stråberg. three members: Anne Brunila (Chair), Hock Goh and Göran Sandberg. Antti Mäkinen. 8 Stora Enso 2019: Governance – Corporate Governance in Stora Enso 2019 Strategy the Committee are defined in its charter, which is approved by the Group Leadership Team as at 31 December 2019 Annual Report 2019 Board. Sustainability and Ethics Committee members may receive remuneration solely based on their role as directors. The compensation is decided by the shareholders at the AGM. President and CEO Management of the Company Annica Bresky Chief Executive Officer (CEO) The CEO is in charge of the day-to-day management of the Company Governance in accordance with the Finnish Companies Act and the instructions Consumer Board1 Packaging Biomaterials Wood Products3 Paper Forest4 and orders issued by the Board. It is the duty of the CEO to ensure that Hannu Kasurinen Solutions2 Markus Jari Suominen Kati ter Horst the Company’s accounting principles comply with the law and that Mannström Corporate Governance financial matters are handled in a reliable manner. in Stora Enso 2019 The Board approves the main organisation, including the functions reporting to the CEO. At the end of 2019 the CEO was directly in Shareholders’ meetings CFO, Country Legal, Country Communications HR5 Sustainability Sourcing Sustainability charge of the following functions, which also reported to her: Board of Directors (Board) • Divisions* (Consumer Board, Packaging Solutions, Biomaterials, Manager Finland Manager Sweden5 Ulrika Lilja Malin Bendz Noel Morrin and Logistics Board committees Wood Products, and Paper) Seppo Parvi Per Lyrvall Johanna Hagelberg • CFO (responsible for Accounting, Controlling, Corporate Finance Management of the Company and M&A, Efora, Energy Services, Investment Process, Enterprise Internal control and risk management Risk Management, Internal Audit, Investor Relations, Tax, Treasury) related to financial reporting • IT Karl-Henrik Sundström, CEO, was as a member of the Group Leadership Team until 30 November 2019. • Human Resources Stora Enso has established a new Forest Division and starts reporting it separately as of 1 January 2020. Remuneration Statement • Legal, General Counsel • Communications 1 Packaging Materials as of 1 January 2020 Decision making procedure 2 David Ekberg, acting Head of Packaging Solutions as of 6 December 2019, not member of GLT. • Sustainability Main principles of remuneration Gilles van Nieuwenhuyzen, EVP, Packaging Solutions was a member of the Group Leadership Team until 6 December 2019. • Sourcing and Logistics 3 Seppo Toikka, acting Head of Wood Products as of 1 January 2020, not member of GLT. Remuneration Report 2019 • CEO Office (responsible for Wood Supply*, innovation and R&D, 4 Jari Suominen, EVP, Head of Forest Division as of 1 January 2020 and special strategic projects) 5 Malin Bendz, EVP, HR until 15 January 2020. Per Lyrvall, acting Head of HR as of 16 January 2020. Members of the Board of Directors The CEO is also responsible for preparatory work with regard to Board meetings. In addition, the CEO supervises decisions regarding Members of the Group key personnel and other important operational matters. One of the Group (IWG) comprising group and division representatives and Financials Leadership Team GLT members acts as deputy to the CEO as defined in the Finnish In 2019 headed by the CFO (also the allocation proposals are made by IWG). Companies Act. The GLT had 11 members at the end of 2019. The GLT Innovation is organised and executed within the divisions to drive convened 12 times during the year. Important items on the market and customer focus. The progress of innovation efforts is Appendix 1 Group Leadership Team (GLT) agenda in 2019 were safety issues, financial performance, evaluated in quarterly Business and Innovation Reviews with the The GLT is chaired by the CEO. The GLT members are appointed by strategy and transformation, sustainability, customer-driven CEO, CFO, Head of Innovation, the division Head, and the division the CEO and approved by the Board. At the year end 2019, the eleven innovation, reviewing the operations of the Group, planning Innovation Head. Innovation funding is supported from group level by GLT members were the CEO, the CFO, the heads of the divisions, HR, and following up investment and other strategic projects, both the innovation and the digitalisation fund, where divisions make Legal (who is also General Counsel), Communications, Sustainability, digitalisation, and preparatory work for Board meetings. proposals, which are then reviewed and decided by IWG. and Sourcing and Logistics. Sustainability work is led by the Executive Vice President (EVP), The GLT assists the CEO in supervising the Group and divisional Sustainability, who reports directly to the CEO and is a member performance against agreed targets, portfolio strategy, ensuring the Divisions and other functions of the GLT. Everyday sustainability topics are managed by Group availability and value-creating allocation of Group funds and capital, The divisions are responsible for their respective line of business and Sustainability team together with Human Resources, Legal, Wood and statutory, governance, compliance and listing issues and policies. are organised and resourced to deal with all business issues. The CEO Supply, and Sourcing and Logistics functions, and divisions. Each The GLT meets regularly every month, and as required. steers the divisions through quarterly and as needed in Business of business divisions has its own Head of Sustainability, who reports Performance Reviews as well as the GLT meetings. directly to the Head of the division. Other key functions, such as and Strategic investment projects are approved on group level Sourcing and Logistics, have sustainability organisations to support Governance following the mandate by the CEO and Board of Directors. Each their management teams. The everyday implementation of Stora Enso’s Division will in addition be granted an annual allocation intended for Sustainability Agenda is the responsibility of line management * As of 1 January 2020 the Wood Supply organisation will function under Stora Enso’s new Forest Division, starting separate segment reporting as a Division as of this date. smaller annual replacement and development needs in relation to supported by functional experts at all levels. Stora Enso’s sustainability As of 1 January 2020 the Division Consumer Board will be named Packaging Materials. investments. All projects are reviewed by the Investment Working work is steered by Sustainability Council, which includes members 9 Stora Enso 2019: Governance – Corporate Governance in Stora Enso 2019 Strategy from five divisions, Sourcing and Logistics function, and subject Financial and Audit Committee approves the appointment of the Head Ethics and Compliance Self-Assesment Tool (T.E.S.T.) to give them Annual Report 2019 matter experts from Group Sustainability team. It is chaired by the EVP, of Internal Audit following the recommendation by the CEO. a better overview of the progress their units are making in policy Sustainability. The CEO has the ultimate responsibility for the successful Internal Audit plan is risk and assurance-based and focuses to implementation, compliance measures taken, and possible gaps and implementation of Stora Enso’s sustainability strategy. core-processes, supporting processes and investments in different risks in compliance. Results of the T.E.S.T. are covered in Compliance The Company has user boards for certain cross-functional service divisions and mills. Internal audit executes during the year possible Forums and action plans developed and followed up accordingly. functions (Logistics, IT, Energy and parts of Wood Supply). These special engagements based on separate request and agreed with Stora Enso’s employees are encouraged to report any suspected user boards consist of representatives of the divisions using these management and Financial and Audit Committee. Financial and Audit cases of misconduct or unethical behaviour to their own supervisor, services. The user boards supervise and steer the operations of the Committee approves Internal Audit Annual Plan and Charter. or to Human Resources or Legal functions. Employees may respective functions. also confidentially report their concerns to the Head of Internal Governance The Company has established proper disclosure policies and Ethics and Compliance Management Committee Audit. Stora Enso uses an additional external service through controls, and process for quarterly and other ongoing reporting. Stora Enso’s Ethics and Compliance Management Committee which employees globally, and in certain locations also external supervises and monitors legal and regulatory ethics and compliance stakeholders, can anonymously report potential non-compliance Corporate Governance Other supervisory bodies and norms related policies, implementation and maintenance of processes cases by phone, mail, or online. This service, which covers all of in Stora Enso 2019 and tools regarding the same, and concrete compliance issues and Stora Enso’s units, is available 24/7. Auditor cases in the field of business practices. The Ethics and Compliance Shareholders’ meetings Sustainability The AGM annually elects one auditor for Stora Enso. The Financial Management Committee consists of the General Counsel (Chair), Insider administration Board of Directors (Board) and Audit Committee monitors the auditor selection process and CEO, CFO, Head of HR, Head of Communications, Head of The Company complies with EU and Finnish insider regulation as Board committees gives its recommendation as to who should serve as auditor to the Sustainability and Head of Internal Audit with the Legal Counsel well as the guidelines of Nasdaq Helsinki Oy. The Company’s internal Board for the purpose of making the proposal to the shareholders at dedicated to compliance matters being the secretary. The Ethics and insider guidelines are published and distributed throughout the group. Management of the Company the AGM. The auditor shall be an authorised public accounting firm, Compliance Management Committee shall convene at least four times Stora Enso’s legal function and the General Counsel are responsible Internal control and risk management which appoints the responsible auditor. every year. for the procedures relating to inside administration, including related to financial reporting monitoring compliance with applicable regulation, keeping of inside Auditor’s fees and services Ethics and Compliance lists and internal training. The Company has established an Inside Remuneration Statement Stora Enso is committed to taking responsibility for its actions, Committee composed of the CEO, CFO as well as representatives Year Ended 31 December to complying with all applicable laws and regulations wherever it of Communications, IR and Legal for the purpose of continuously Decision making procedure EUR million 2019 2018 operates, and to creating and maintaining ethical relationships with reviewing pending projects and the existence of inside information in Main principles of remuneration Audit fees 4 4 its customers, suppliers and other stakeholders. The Stora Enso the Company. Remuneration Report 2019 Audit-related 0 0 Code is a single set of values defined for all employees, to provide The Company expects the management and all its employees Tax fees 0 0 guidance on the Company’s approach to ethical business practices, to act in the way required of an insider. All unpublished information Members of the Board Other fees 0 1 environmental values, and human and labour rights. These same relating to the Company’s present and future business operations of Directors Total 4 5 values are applied wherever Stora Enso operates. In 2011 the shall be kept strictly confidential. company established its Business Practice Policy to complement Persons discharging managerial responsibilities (PDMR’s) in Members of the Group the Code, which further sets out Stora Enso’s approach to ethical Stora Enso are the members of the Board, the CEO and the CFO, as Financials Leadership Team business practices and describes the processes for reporting on well as other members of the Group Leadership Team (GLT). PDMR’s, In 2019 violations thereof. The Business Practice Policy was revised in 2016 in as well as their closely related persons, are subject to a duty to notify The Board in 2019 on the recommendation of the Financial order to streamline and simplify policies and guidelines. Continuous the Company and the Finnish Financial Supervisory Authority of all Appendix 1 and Audit Committee proposed that PricewaterhouseCoopers e-learning, communication, face-to-face training and sign-off are transactions with the securities of the Company. Oy be re-elected auditor by the AGM 2019 for the second organised in order to ensure that these are part of the everyday The Company also keeps a list of persons that are involved in the year as the Company’s auditors. The AGM 2019 elected decision-making and activities at Stora Enso. preparation of interim reports and financial results, which is approved PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy as auditor for a term of office Stora Enso uses an index to monitor and evaluate employee by the General Counsel (Closed Period List). Persons included in the expiring at the end of the AGM 2020. perceptions of the work on topics covered by the Stora Enso Code. list are e.g. members of the Division management teams, members The index is based on employee responses to related questions in the of Financial Communications and Investor Relations as well as the annual employee survey. After five years of continuous improvements, heads and certain team members of Treasury, Group Accounting and Internal Audit the index decreased one unit to 84 in 2019 (85 in 2018). The target is Controlling and Legal. Stora Enso’s Internal Audit is an independent, objective assurance to continue the previous positive trend and further efforts will therefore Persons, who participate in the development and preparation of and consulting activity designed to add value and improve the be put on communication and training in 2020. a project that constitutes inside information, are considered project operations of Stora Enso. Internal Audit helps the organisation to In order to enhance the supervision and monitoring of legal and specific insiders. A separate project-specific insider register is accomplish its objectives by providing a systematic, disciplined regulatory compliance related policies and issues, Stora Enso has established when required by the decision of the General Counsel or approach to evaluate and improve the effectiveness of internal control, established its Ethics and Compliance Management Committee. Assistant General Counsel. Governance risk management and governance processes. In addition, Compliance Forums, comprising of heads of key The insider guidelines do not permit Stora Enso PDMR’s or Internal Audit reports regularly about the status of the audits functions, in divisions, group functions and Chinese operations persons involved in the preparation of interim reports or financial and audit findings to the Financial and Audit Committee, Board of play an important role in risk assessing and monitoring compliance results and entered into the Closed Period List to buy or sell any of Directors. Administratively Internal Audit reports to the CFO. The within their respective areas. The Compliance Forums use the the Company’s securities (i.e. shares, options and synthetic options) 10 Stora Enso 2019: Governance – Corporate Governance in Stora Enso 2019 Strategy during the closed period defined below or when they possess Control environment and disclosure errors and irregularities and are performed on all Annual Report 2019 information that could have a material impact on the Stora Enso Stora Enso’s control environment sets the tone of the organisation company levels. They include a range of activities such as approvals, share price. providing the company purpose and values, policies, processes and authorisations, verifications, reconciliations, reviews of operating structures as a foundation for carrying out internal control across the performance, the security of assets and the separation of duties as Closed period organisation. Stora Enso has a formal Code that sets forth its rules. well as general IT controls. Stora Enso closed period starts when the reporting period ends or 30 To complement the Code, Stora Enso has a Business Practice Policy, days prior to the announcement of the results, whichever is earlier and which further sets out Company’s approach to ethical business Information and communication lasts until the results are announced. The dates are published in the practices and describes the processes for reporting on violations The Company’s information and communication channels support financial calendar at storaenso.com/investors. thereof. All employees are expected to comply with the Code and the the completeness and correctness of financial reporting. For Governance During closed periods Stora Enso PDMR’s or persons entered Business Practice Policy. Continuous e-learning, face-to-face training example, the management communicates information about into the Company’s Closed Period List are not allowed to trade in and sign-off are organised in order to ensure that these are part of the Stora Enso’s financial reporting objectives, financial control Company securities. everyday decision-making and activities at Stora Enso. requirements, policies and procedures regarding accounting and Corporate Governance The Board, supported by the Financial and Audit Committee, financial reporting to all employees concerned. The management in Stora Enso 2019 Guidelines for Related Party Transactions has the overall responsibility for setting up an effective system of also communicates regular updates and briefings regarding changes The principles applicable to monitoring of Stora Enso related party internal control and risk management. Responsibility for maintaining in accounting policies and reporting and disclosure requirements. Shareholders’ meetings Sustainability transactions are set out in Stora Enso’s Guideline for Related Party effective risk management and internal controls over financial Subsidiaries and operational units make regular financial and Board of Directors (Board) Transactions. The Guideline defines Stora Enso related parties and reporting is delegated to the CEO. The GLT and senior management management reports to the management, including the analysis Board committees sets out the decision-making order and principles for monitoring issue corporate guidelines in accordance with Stora Enso’s policy of and comments on financial performance and risks. The Board related party transactions including a description of Stora Enso internal management process. These guidelines stipulate responsibilities receives monthly financial reports. The Company has internal and Management of the Company controls. Information on material transactions with related parties is set and authority and constitute the control environment for specific external procedures for anonymous reporting of violations related to Internal control and risk management out in Note 31 of Stora Enso’s consolidated financial statements. areas, such as finance, accounting, investments, purchasing and accounting, internal controls and auditing matters. related to financial reporting Stora Enso business activities may include regular or less frequent sales. These responsibilities have been described in Stora Enso’s transactions with related parties. Transactions with related parties Risk and Control Policy which also outlines the responsibilities of Monitoring Remuneration Statement shall always promote the purpose of the Company and be concluded the first and second line of defense. Group Internal Control function, The Company’s financial performance is reviewed at each Board on acceptable terms and in the interest of the Company, as well as under the CFO’s supervision, is responsible for group-wide internal meeting. The Financial and Audit Committee reviews all Interim Decision making procedure in compliance with prevailing regulation. Internal controls have been control governance and processes, whereas divisions, various Reports and the Board approves them before they are released by Main principles of remuneration designed to ensure that related party transactions are duly monitored support and service functions are accountable for operating the CEO. The annual financial statements and the Report of the Board Remuneration Report 2019 and identified. effective internal controls. of Directors are reviewed by the Financial and Audit Committee Related party transactions, which are part of the ordinary course of and approved by the Board. The effectiveness of the process for Members of the Board business and undertaken on market terms are approved in accordance Risk assessment assessing risks and the execution of control activities are monitored of Directors with the Company’s internal guidelines. Any transaction which would Stora Enso’s management specifies objectives relating to the continuously at various levels. Information on the development of not meet these terms must be reported to the Financial and Audit preparation of financial statements. The Company applies an annual essential risk areas and executed and planned activities in these areas Members of the Group Committee and approved by the Board of Directors. The Board of process to establish the overall materiality and to identify significant are regularly communicated to the Financial and Audit Committee. Financials Leadership Team Directors is responsible for overseeing the processes established for financial statements accounts and disclosures. Relevant objectives Monitoring involves both formal and informal procedures applied monitoring related party transactions. and risks for processes are identified and evaluated to determine by management and processes owners, including reviews of results Stora Enso’s minimum internal control requirements for all business which are compared against the set budgets and plans, analytical Appendix 1 Internal control and risk management units and support functions. The assessment of risks includes procedures and key performance indicators. Stora Enso is utilizing related to financial reporting risks related to fraud and irregularities as well as the risk of loss or an internal control tool to facilitate and automate internal control the misappropriation of assets. Information on the development of processes, control performance, continuous controls monitoring Internal control over financial reporting essential risk areas and executed and planned activities in these areas and quarterly internal control reporting to management. In 2019 The system of internal control related to financial reporting in the are regularly communicated to the Financial and Audit Committee. Stora Enso has further strengthened the use of the internal control tool Stora Enso group is based upon the framework issued by the A comprehensive description of Stora Enso’s risk management can be and increased control automation. Committee of Sponsoring Organisations (COSO) and comprises five found at storaenso.com/investors. Stora Enso has a separate internal auditing organisation principal components of internal control: the control environment, which in addition to the Group Internal Control function monitors risk assessment, control activities, information and communication, Control activities independently the design and operating effectiveness of internal and monitoring. Stora Enso’s control activities are the policies, procedures and controls over financial reporting. The role, responsibilities and The internal controls related to financial reporting are designed organisational structures in place to ensure that management organisation of Internal Audit are described under Other supervisory to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial directives are carried out and that necessary action is taken to address bodies and norms on page 9. reporting and the preparation of financial statements in accordance risks related to the achievement of objectives relating to financial Governance with applicable laws and regulations, generally accepted accounting reporting. Stora Enso’s minimum internal control requirements are principles and other requirements for listed companies. aimed at preventing, detecting and correcting material accounting 11 Remuneration Stora Enso 2019: Governance – Remuneration Statement Strategy Annual Report 2019 Statement Governance This Remuneration statement describes Stora Enso’s main A fundamental element in the remuneration principles is the Remuneration decision-making procedure principles of remuneration and the remuneration paid to members concept of pay-for-performance, and an important aspect of of the Board of Directors, President and CEO and other members Stora Enso’s approach to remuneration is to look at the total Corporate Governance of the Group Leadership Team (GLT). The first part of this report remuneration provided to employees. Stora Enso’s total remuneration The Shareholders’ Nomination Board in Stora Enso 2019 describes Stora Enso’s remuneration decision-making procedure mix consists of: Prepares proposal on Board and and remuneration principles. The second part describes the • annual fixed salary committee remuneration Shareholders’ meetings Sustainability implementation in 2019 (Remuneration Report). • variable pay components as short-term incentives (cash) and Board of Directors (Board) The Remuneration statement has been prepared in accordance longterm incentives (shares when applicable) Board committees with the Finnish Corporate Governance Code of 2015. The • long-term employee benefits (pension, medical and health benefits) aforementioned Code is available at cgfinland.fi. Stora Enso also • other benefits (car, housing, etc. when applicable) Management of the Company Annual General Meeting complies with the Swedish Corporate Governance Code (“Swedish Decides on the Board and committee remuneration Internal control and risk management Code”), with the exception of the deviations listed in Appendix 1 of the Regular external benchmarking is crucial to ensure that compensation related to financial reporting Corporate Governance Report. The deviations are due to differences levels are competitive with the external marketplace. The marketplace between the Swedish and Finnish legislation, governance code rules is defined as those peer companies with whom Stora Enso competes Remuneration Statement and practices, and in these cases Stora Enso follows the practice in for recruiting talents and retention of current employees for similar its domicile. The Swedish Code is issued by the Swedish Corporate positions. The market will vary depending on functional area and level Decision making procedure Governance Board and is available at corporategovernanceboard.se. of the positions concerned. Board of Remuneration Main principles of remuneration Compensation review is an annual process with the aim to ensure Directors Committee Remuneration Report 2019 Decision-making procedure that Stora Enso employees are being rewarded in accordance with The shareholders at the AGM decide annually on the remuneration our remuneration policy for employees and local regulations, such as Decides on the CEO’s and Prepares remuneration Members of the Board of the Board members (including the remuneration of the members labour laws and collective agreements. GLT members’ remuneration related matters and proposals for the of Directors of Board committees). The proposals for the AGM concerning the The GLT annually reviews the performance and potential ratings, Approves Company’s Board and reviews remuneration for the Chair, Vice Chair and members of the Board as as well as the succession planning of its top management in order to well as the remuneration for the Chair and members of the committees secure global principles with local applications. compensation and other the Company’s Members of the Group Financials of the Board are prepared by the Company’s Shareholders’ benefit plans compensation structure Leadership Team Nomination Board, which is composed of representatives of the Board member remuneration principles main shareholders of the Company as well as Board member Remuneration of the Board of Directors is decided annually by the Appendix 1 representatives and described in more detail on page 3 of the shareholders at the AGM. The AGM in 2019 resolved in accordance with Corporate Governance Report. the proposal of the Shareholders’ Nomination Board that the members The Board appoints the CEO and approves his/her remuneration of the Board of Directors be paid the following annual remuneration for President and CEO as well as the compensation of other GLT members. The Board’s their term of office expiring at the end of the AGM 2020: Remuneration Committee prepares remuneration related matters and • for the Chair of the Board of Directors EUR 192 000 proposals for the Board and is further responsible for ensuring that • for the Vice Chair of the Board of Directors EUR 109 000, and management compensation policies are aligned with the Company’s • for other members of the Board of Directors EUR 74 000 each. Other Group Leadership objectives and shareholder interest. Team members The annual remuneration for the members of the Board shall be paid Main principles of remuneration in Company shares and cash so that 40% will be paid in Stora Enso R shares to be purchased on the Board members’ behalf from the Stora Enso remuneration principles – general overview market at a price determined in public trading, and the rest in cash. Stora Enso aims to provide a level of remuneration that motivates, The shares will be purchased within two weeks from the publication Governance encourages, attracts and retains employees of the highest calibre. of the interim report for the period 1 January 2020–31 March 2020 or To maximise the effectiveness of the remuneration policy, careful as soon as possible in accordance with applicable legislation. The consideration will be given to aligning the remuneration package with Company will pay any costs and transfer tax related to the purchase shareholder interests and best market practice. of Company shares. The Company has no formal policy requirements 12 Stora Enso 2019: Governance – Remuneration Statement Strategy for the Board members to retain shares received as remuneration. In Share-based compensation plan Annual Report 2019 addition, the AGM decided that the following annual remuneration be paid to the members of the Board Committees: • for the Chair of the Financial and Audit Committee EUR 20 600, and LTI 2017 Vesting period • for the members of the Financial and Audit Committee EUR 14 400 each, • for the Chair of the Remuneration Committee EUR 10 300, and LTI 2018 Vesting period • for the members of the Remuneration Committee EUR 6 200 each, • for the Chair of the Sustainability and Ethics Committee Governance EUR 10 300, and LTI 2019 Vesting period • for the members of the Sustainability and Ethics Committee EUR 6 200 each. Corporate Governance STI in Stora Enso 2019 CEO remuneration principles The President and CEO has been employed by Stora Enso since Shareholders’ meetings 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 Sustainability 1 May 2017 and assumed the position as President and CEO on Board of Directors (Board) 1 December 2019. She has a notice period of six months with a Yearly STI programme * Date of grant 1 March LTI Long term incentive STI Short term incentive Board committees severance payment of twelve months salary on termination by the Company but with no contractual payments on any change of control. Management of the Company The President and CEO’s benefits include pension provisions. The Internal control and risk management President and CEO’s pension plan consists of a defined contribution 2019 CEO remuneration (1 January–30 November) related to financial reporting pension plan with contributions of 30% of pensionable salary. Base salary EUR 887 000 in 2019. Pensionable salary consists of base pay, vacation pay, and actual paid Short-term incentive The CEO is entitled to a STI programme decided by the Board each year giving a maximum of 75% of annual fixed salary. Remuneration Statement Short Term Incentive. The retirement age is sixty-five years. Long-term incentive Outstanding LTI programmes include the yearly programmes of 2017, 2018 and 2019. The CEO had the potential to receive a maximum of 224 693 shares before taxes in the LTI programmes from 2017, 2018 and 2019 when his GLT membership ended. Decision making procedure These shares are forfeited at end of employment, except for the LTI 2017 shares which have been earned at the time employment Short Term Incentive (STI) programme for CEO ended and vest at the normal vesting date in March 2020. Main principles of remuneration The CEO is entitled to a STI programme decided by the Board each Other benefits Benefits include mobile phone and insurance. Remuneration Report 2019 year giving a maximum of 75% of annual fixed salary. The STI for Pension Retirement age is 65. Pension plan consists of collectively agreed pension plan in Sweden (ITP2) and a defined contribution (DC) top 2018 and 2019 was based 70% on financial measures and 30% on up pension plan. Members of the Board Individual Key Targets. Termination of Notice period of six months with a severance payment of twelve months salary on termination by the company but with no of Directors assignment contractual payments on any change of control. Long Term Incentive (LTI) programmes for CEO Members of the Group The CEO participates in 2017, 2018 and 2019 share based LTI Financials 2019 CEO remuneration (1 December–31 December) Leadership Team programmes. The programmes have three-year targets and vest in one Base salary EUR 75 000 in 2019. portion after three years. The 2017 programme is related to performance Short-term incentive The CEO is entitled to a STI programme decided by the Board each year giving a maximum of 75% of annual fixed salary. periods 2017-2019, the 2018 programme is related to performance Appendix 1 Long-term incentive Outstanding LTI programmes include the yearly programmes of 2017, 2018 and 2019. The CEO has the potential to receive a value periods 2018-2020 and the 2019 programme is related to preformance corresponding to a maximum of 27 160 shares before taxes under the 2019 LTI programme that will be settled in 2022. periods 2019-2021. Three quarters (75%) of the opportunity in the Other benefits Benefits include mobile phone, car, and insurance. 2017 programme is in Performance Shares, where shares will vest in Pension Retirement age is 65. The President and CEO’s pension plan consists of a defined contribution pension plan with contributions of accordance with performance criteria proposed by the Remuneration 30% of pensionable salary. Committee and approved by the Board of Directors. One quarter (25%) of Termination of Notice period of six months with a severance payment of twelve months salary on termination by the company but with no the opportunity is in Restricted Shares, for which vesting is only subject assignment contractual payments on any change of control. to continued employment. The opportunity under the 2018 and 2019 programme is in Performance Shares only. The financial success metric 2019 GLT remuneration, other than CEO in the Performance Share programme is 3-year EVA (Economic Value Annual salary GLT members receive a monthly salary. In total for all GLT members EUR 3 756 000 in 2019. Added) and EPS (Earnings per Share) for the Stora Enso Group. Short-term incentive GLT members are eligible for STI with up to a maximum of 50% or 60% of their annual fixed salary, payable the year after the performance period. GLT remuneration principles Long-term incentive Outstanding LTI programmes include the yearly programmes of 2017, 2018 and 2019. The GLT members can potentially receive total GLT members in Stora Enso receive a monthly salary, which in of maximum 196 273 shares before taxes in the 2019 programmes that will be settled 2022. Governance addition to a salary payment includes customary fringe benefits, such Other benefits Benefits include mobile phones, cars, and insurances. as mobile phones and cars. GLT members further have the possibility Pension GLT members may retire at 65 years of age with pensions consistent with local practices in their respective home countries. to receive yearly awards in the Company’s short term and long term Termination of Contracts of employment provide for notice of six months prior to termination with severance compensation of twelve months’ basic incentive programmes for management. assignment salary if the termination is at the Company’s request. 13 Stora Enso 2019: Governance – Remuneration Statement Strategy In accordance with their respective pension arrangements, GLT three-year vesting period is achieved. There has been no settlement of actual cash cost does not agree with the accounting charges as the Annual Report 2019 members may retire at sixty-five years of age with pensions consistent shares to the CEO during the year. share price is not updated at the time of the vesting. The figures in the with local practices in their respective home countries. Contracts Group Leadership Team Remuneration table refer to individuals who of employment provide for notice of six months prior to termination GLT remuneration excluding CEO were executives at the time of settlement. with severance compensation of twelve months’ basic salary if the The total compensation for the GLT members excluding CEO in 2019 During the year, the number of shares settled for executives termination is at the Company’s request. amounted to EUR 9 038 000 including annual salary, customary fringe (GLT members at settlement date) from previous awards amounted to benefits (such as mobile phone) STI and LTI programmes, and pension 128 076, having a cash value at the 1 March 2019 settlement date of Short Term Incentive (STI) programmes costs. The total number of GLT members was 11 at year end 2019, EUR 1 560 947 before taxes based on the share price at that date. for the GLT other than the CEO including also the CEO. Governance The GLT members have STI programmes with up to a maximum Under the 2019 LTI programme, GLT members (in GLT at year 50% or 60% of their annual fixed salary, payable the year after the end) can potentially receive a value corresponding to 196 273 shares performance period. 70% of the STI for 2018 and 2019 was based on before taxes, assuming the maximum vesting level during the threeBoard Remuneration Corporate Governance financial measures and 30% on Individual Key Targets. year vesting period (2019–2021) is achieved. Total number of Year Ended 31 December in Stora Enso 2019 The financial performance metrics in the STI programme are shares actually transferred will be lower because a portion of shares EUR 20191 2018 EBITDA and Working Capital Ratio. The Individual Targets are based corresponding to the tax obligation will be withheld to cover the Chair 192 000 175 000 Shareholders’ meetings Sustainability on a balanced scorecard approach within the categories of Customer, income tax. Vice Chair 109 000 103 000 Board of Directors (Board) People, Sustainability and Special Projects. The fair value of employee services received in exchange for Board Member 74 000 72 000 Board committees share based compensation payments is accounted for in a manner Long Term Incentive (LTI) programmes that is consistent with the method of settlement either as cash 1 40% of the Board remuneration in 2019 was paid in Stora Enso R shares purchased Management of the Company for GLT other than the CEO settled or equity settled as described in more detail in Note 21 of the from the market and distributed as follows: to Chair 6 695 R shares, Vice Chair 3 801 R shares, and members 2 580 R shares each. The Company has no formal policy Internal control and risk management The LTI programmes have three-year targets and vest in one portion Financials 2019. For the equity settled part, it is possible that the requirements for the Board members to retain shares received as remuneration. related to financial reporting after three years.The absolute maximum vesting level is 100% of the number of shares granted. The opportunity under the 2019 Remuneration Statement programme is in Performance Shares, where the shares vest in accordance with performance criteria proposed by the Remuneration Decision making procedure Committee and approved by the Board of Directors. Main principles of remuneration The financial success metric in the Performance Share programme Remuneration Report 2019 is 3-year EVA (Economic Value Added) and EPS (Earnings per Share) for the Stora Enso Group. Board and Committee remuneration Members of the Board Year Ended 31 December of Directors Remuneration Report 2019 2019 2018 Value of Members of the Group Board remuneration in 2019 EUR thousand (before taxes) Cash shares1 Total4 Total Committee memberships Financials Leadership Team In 2019, the Board members of Stora Enso were compensated as set Board members at 31 December 2019 out in the following chart. Based on the decision of the AGM 2019, Jorma Eloranta, Chair 140 77 217 200 Remuneration, Nomination2,3, Financial and Audit 40% of the Board remuneration was paid in Stora Enso R shares Appendix 1 Hans Stråberg, Vice Chair 71 44 115 109 Remuneration, Nomination2,3 purchased from the market. In addition, Board members may receive Elisabeth Fleuriot 58 30 88 78 Financial and Audit a yearly compensation based on their positions as Chair or members Hock Goh 50 30 80 78 Sustainability and Ethics of Board committees. Mikko Helander 44 30 74 0 Christiane Kuehne 54 30 84 86 Sustainability and Ethics CEO remuneration Antti Mäkinen 50 30 80 86 Remuneration The total compensation for the current President and CEO in the Richard Nilsson 65 30 95 93 Financial and Audit period 1 December to 31 December 2019 amounted to EUR 100 000, Göran Sandberg 50 30 80 78 Sustainability and Ethics including annual salary, customary fringe benefits (such as car and Former Board members mobile phone) STI and LTI programmes, and pension costs. The Anne Brunila (until 14 March 2019) 0 0 0 82 total compensation for the former CEO in the period 1 January to Total remuneration as Directors1 582 331 913 891 30 November 2019 amounted to EUR 2 569 000, including annual salary, customary fringe benefits (such as mobile phone) STI and LTI 1 40% of the Board remuneration, excluding Committee remuneration, in 2019 was paid in Stora Enso R shares purchased from the market and distributed as follows: to Chair 6 695 R shares, Vice Chair 3 801 R shares, and members 2 580 R shares each. The Company has no formal policy requirements for the Board members to retain shares received as remuneration. programmes, and pension costs. Governance 2 Stora Enso’s Shareholders’ Nomination Board has been appointed by the AGM in 2016 to exist until otherwise decided. The Shareholders’ Nomination Board according to its The CEO has the potential to receive a value corresponding Charter as approved by the AGM comprises of four members: the Chair and Vice Chair of the Board of Directors, as well as two members appointed by the two largest shareholders to a maximum of 27 160 shares before taxes under the 2019 LTI (one each) as of 31 August each year. No separate remuneration is paid to members of the Shareholders´ Nomination Board. 3 Marcus Wallenberg, appointed by FAM AB, is Chair of the Nomination Board. Harri Sailas is the member of the Shareholders’ Nomination Board appointed by Solidium Oy. programme. The grant value EUR 331 018 is based on the share price Jorma Eloranta and Hans Stråberg were appointed as members of the Shareholders’ Nomination Board in their roles as Chair and Vice Chair of the Board of Directors. at grant date and assuming the maximum vesting level during the 4 The Company additionally pays the transfer tax for share purchases for each member, in line with AGM decision, which amount is considered also taxable income for each member. 14 Stora Enso 2019: Governance – Remuneration Statement Strategy The aggregate remuneration paid to the CEO and GLT members in 2019 Annual Report 2019 Year Ended 31 December 2019 2018 EUR thousand CEO1 Former CEO2,4 Others3 GLT Total CEO Others GLT Total Remuneration7 Annual salary 75 887 3 756 4 717 905 3 589 4 494 Local housing (actual costs) 0 0 0 0 0 22 22 Other benefits 2 19 373 394 20 385 405 Governance Termination benefits 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Short term incentive programme6 0 571 1 467 2 039 611 1 089 1 700 Long term incentive programme6 0 566 1 508 2 073 845 2 431 3 276 Corporate Governance 77 2 043 7 104 9 224 2 381 7 516 9 897 in Stora Enso 2019 Pension Costs Shareholders’ meetings Mandatory plans 23 62 1 396 1 481 66 1 296 1 362 Sustainability Board of Directors (Board) Stora Enso voluntary plans5 0 464 539 1 003 478 447 925 Board committees 23 526 1 934 2 484 544 1 743 2 287 Total Compensation 100 2 569 9 038 11 708 2 925 9 259 12 184 Management of the Company 1 CEO remuneration consists of remuneration delivered to Annica Bresky from her appointment as President and CEO on 1 December 2019. Internal control and risk management 2 Former CEO remuneration consists of remuneration delivered to Karl-Henrik Sundström for the period up until his last day as CEO (30 November 2019). related to financial reporting 3 Amounts include payments related to Annica Bresky until 30 November 2019 and Gilles van Nieuwenhuyzen until 6 December 2019. Payments related to the new GLT member Hannu Kasurinen have been included from 4 December 2019. 4 For the former CEO, Short term incentives for the financial year 2019 will be paid out on the normal payout date in March 2020. The former CEO did not receive any other termination benefits such as severance pay. Remuneration Statement The former CEO participates in the Swedish Executive Pension Plan where pension accruals are unfunded for all participants, the liability is calculated and insured in accordance with Swedish legislation. The liability for the former CEO amounts to EUR 3 052 thousand. 5 6 The pay-outs for Short term incentive in March 2019 were based on 2018 results and for Long term incentive payouts in March 2019 were based on 2016–2018 results. Disclosed amounts are included for the executives who were GLT members at the time of the payment. 7 Remuneration for executives is disclosed only for the period during which they were GLT members. Decision making procedure Main principles of remuneration CEO and GLT share interests Remuneration Report 2019 Stora Enso recommends and expects GLT members to hold Stora Enso shares at a value corresponding to at least one annual base salary. Stora Enso shares received as remuneration are Members of the Board therefore recommended not to be sold until this level has been reached. Stora Enso GLT members, Performance Restricted of Directors including the CEO, held on 31 December 2019 shares in the Company as follows: R shares share awards share awards Effective date held when GLT when GLT when GLT of GLT Performance Restricted share The following Executive Officers membership membership membership membership Members of the Group Financials Executives in office at the year end R Shares held1 share opportunity2 opportunity2 also served in 2019 ended ended2 ended2 ending Leadership Team Annica Bresky 0 76 561 8 397 30 November Karl-Henrik Sundström1 166 011 204 343 20 350 2019 Seppo Parvi 32 202 63 149 6 454 Appendix 1 6 December Malin Bendz 19 162 44 776 4 539 Gilles van Nieuwenhuyzen 19 610 82 042 8 797 2019 Johanna Hagelberg 16 039 48 164 5 091 1 41 700 of the shares are held by a related party (Alma Patria AB). Kati ter Horst 38 772 81 011 8 043 2 These shares are forfeited at end of employment, except for the LTI 2017 shares which have been earned at the time employment ended and vest at the normal vesting date in March 2020. Hannu Kasurinen 31 486 17 903 5 967 Ulrika Lilja 25 732 42 304 4 471 Per Lyrvall3 59 362 60 516 6 450 Markus Mannström 18 392 52 084 3 601 Noel Morrin 33 756 49 256 5 382 Jari Suominen 37 985 59 337 6 121 Total, serving officers4 312 888 595 061 64 516 Governance 1 None of the GLT members holds A shares. 2 Potential shares to GLT members listed here are gross of taxes for the LTI programmes started in 2017, 2018, and 2019 covering three year periods during 2017–2021, with vesting in 2020, 2021 and 2022 respectively. 3 Spouse holds 1 257 of the shares. 4 The Company recommends and expects GLT members to hold Stora Enso shares at a value corresponding to at least one annual base salary. Stora Enso shares received as remuneration are therefore recommended not to be sold until this level has been reached. 15 Stora Enso 2019: Governance – Members of the Board of Directors Strategy Members of the Board of Directors Annual Report 2019 FAC = Financial and Audit Committee RemCo = Remuneration Committee SECo = Sustainability and Ethics Committee Chair Member 1 Detailed description of Board Governance Remunerations and Committee Memberships as decided by the AGM in 2019 on page 13. 2 Shares held by Board members Corporate Governance and related parties. Board members’ related parties held no in Stora Enso 2019 Jorma Eloranta Hans Stråberg Elisabeth Fleuriot Hock Goh Mikko Helander Stora Enso shares. Born 1951. M.Sc. (Tech), D.Sc. Born 1957. M.Sc. (Eng.). Born 1956. M.Sc. (Econ.). Born 1955. B. Eng. (Hons) in Born 1960. M.Sc. (Tech.). 3 Meetings attended out of the Shareholders’ meetings (Tech) h.c. Mechanical Engineering. meetings held after election as Sustainability Position Position Position FAC member. Board of Directors (Board) Position Vice Chair of Stora Enso’s Board Member of Stora Enso’s Board of Position Member of Stora Enso’s Board of 4 Meetings attended out of the meetings held after election as Board committees Chair of Stora Enso’s Board of of Directors since April 2017 and Directors since April 2013. Member Member of Stora Enso’s Board of Directors since March 2019. Board member. Directors since April 2017, Vice Chair member since April 2009. Member of the Financial and Audit Committee Directors since April 2012. Member Management of the Company April 2016–April 2017. Member of of Shareholders’ Nomination Board since March 2019. of the Sustainability and Ethics Board memberships The independence is evaluated in Internal control and risk management Shareholders’ Nomination Board since since April 2017. Member of the Committee since April 2017. Chair of the Board of Ilmarinen accordance with Recommendation 10 of the Finnish Corporate Governance related to financial reporting April 2016. Chair of the Remuneration Remuneration Committee since Board memberships until 31 December 2019. Chair of Code. The full recommendation can Committee since April 2017 and March 2010. Board member and Chair of CSR Board memberships the Board of Finnish Commerce be found at cgfinland.fi. A significant Remuneration Statement member since April 2016. Member of Committee at G4S. Member of the Board of AB SKF, Federation. Vice Chair of the Board shareholder according to the the Financial and Audit Committee Board memberships Santos Australia and Vesuvius Plc. of the Confederation of Finnish recommendation is a shareholder that Decision making procedure since April 2017. Chair of the Board of Atlas Copco Principal work experience Industries EK. Member of the Board of holds at least 10% of all company shares or the votes carried by all the AB, Roxtec AB, CTEK Holding AB and other information Principal work experience Finnish Chambers of Commerce and Main principles of remuneration Board memberships and AB SKF. Member of the Board of President and CEO of Thai Union and other information Rajamme Vartijain Säätiö foundation. shares or a shareholder that has the right or the obligation to purchase Remuneration Report 2019 Chair of the Board of Finnish Fair Investor AB, Mellby Gård AB, Hedson Europe Africa 2013–2017. Senior Operating Partner of Baird Capital Member of the Delegation of Finnish the corresponding number of already Foundation. Member of the Board of Technologies International AB and Vice President, Emerging Markets Partners Asia 2005–2012. President of Business and Policy Forum EVA. issued shares. Members of the Board Cargotec. Vice Chair of the Supervisory Anocca AB. and Regional Vice President, Network and Infrastructure Solutions, Member of the supervisory Board of of Directors Board in Finnish Naval Foundation. Chair France, Benelux, Russia and Turkey, Schlumberger Ltd 2002–2005 and Finnish Fair Foundation. of the Board and CEO of Pienelo Ltd. Principal work experience in Kellogg Company 2001–2013. President Asia, Schlumberger Ltd and other information General Manager, Europe, in Yoplait, 1998–2002. Principal work experience Members of the Group Financials Principal work experience President and CEO of AB Electrolux Sodiaal Group 1998–2001. Several and other information Leadership Team and other information 2002–2010. Several management management positions in Danone President and CEO of Kesko Oyj President and CEO of Metso positions at Electrolux in Sweden and Group 1979–1997. Total remuneration 80 200 since 2015. CEO of Metsä Board Oyj 2019, EUR1 Appendix 1 2004–2011, President and CEO of the USA 1983–2002. Meeting attendance 12/12 2006–2014 and Metsä Tissue Oyj Kvaerner Masa-Yards 2001–2003 and 2003–2006. Several management President and CEO of Patria Industries Total remuneration 88 400 FAC attendance positions in Valmet Oyj 1984–1990 Total remuneration 115 200 2019, EUR1 RemCo attendance Group 1997–2000. Executive Vice and 1993–2003. Managing Director 2019, EUR1 Meeting attendance 12/12 SECo attendance 4/4 President of Finvest Group and Jaakko of Kasten Hövik Oy 1990–1993. Meeting attendance 12/12 FAC attendance 7/73 Shareholding2 Owns 28 484 Pöyry Group 1996 and President of FAC attendance RemCo attendance R shares in Finvest 1985–1995. RemCo attendance 10/10 SECo attendance Stora Enso. Total remuneration 74 000 SECo attendance Shareholding2 Owns 23 731 Independent member Yes 2019, EUR1 Total remuneration 216 700 Shareholding2 Owns 41 291 R shares in Meeting attendance 10/104 2019, EUR1 R shares in Stora Enso. FAC attendance Meeting attendance 12/12 Stora Enso. Independent member Yes RemCo attendance FAC attendance 8/8 Independent member Yes SECo attendance RemCo attendance 10/10 Shareholding2 Owns 4 298 SECo attendance R shares in Governance Shareholding2 Owns 1 150 Stora Enso. A shares and Independent member Yes 27 076 R shares in Stora Enso. Independent member Yes 16 FAC = Financial and Audit Committee Stora Enso 2019: Governance – Members of the Board of Directors Strategy RemCo = Remuneration Committee Annual Report 2019 SECo = Sustainability and Ethics Committee Chair Member 1 Detailed description of Board Remunerations and Committee Memberships as decided by the AGM in 2019 on page 13. 2 Shares held by Board members and Governance Christiane Kuehne Antti Mäkinen Richard Nilsson Göran Sandberg related parties. Board members’ related parties held no Stora Enso shares. 3 Meetings attended out of the meetings Born 1955. LL.M., B.B.A. Born 1961. LL.M. Born 1970. B.Sc. (BA and Econ.). Born 1955. Ph.D. held after election as SECo chair. Corporate Governance Meetings attended out of the meetings 4 Position Position Position Position held after election as RemCo member. in Stora Enso 2019 Member of Stora Enso’s Board of Member of Stora Enso’s Board of Member of Stora Enso´s Board of Member of Stora Enso’s Board of 5 Antti Mäkinen is independent of the company but not of its significant Shareholders’ meetings Directors since April 2017. Chair Directors since March 2018. Member Directors since April 2014. Chair of Directors since April 2017. Member shareholders due to his position as the Sustainability of the Sustainability and Ethics of the Remuneration Committee the Financial and Audit Committee of the Sustainability and Ethics CEO of Solidium Oy. Board of Directors (Board) Committee since March 2019. since March 2019. since April 2016 and member since Committee since April 2017. 6 Richard Nilsson is independent of the company but not of its significant Board committees April 2015. shareholders due to his employment at Board memberships Board memberships Board memberships FAM AB. Management of the Company Member of the Board of James Finlays Member of the Board of Rake Oy, Board memberships Member of the Board of the 7 Göran Sandberg is independent of Ltd, Wetter Foundation and Foundation Metso Oyj and Sampo Oyj. Chair Member of the Board of Directors Marcus Wallenberg Foundation for the company but not of its significant Internal control and risk management shareholders due to his position Pierre du Bois. or a member of the shareholders’ of IPCO AB and group companies. Promoting Scientific Research in the related to financial reporting nomination boards of several Forest Industry and the Wallenberg as executive director of majority shareholders of FAM AB, a significant Principal work experience listed companies. Principal work experience Foundations AB. Remuneration Statement and other information and other information shareholder of the company. Operative roles within the Nestlé Group Principal work experience Investment Manager at FAM AB since Principal work experience The independence is evaluated in Decision making procedure accordance with Recommendation 10 of 1977–2015. Her last operative role and other information 2008. Pulp & paper research analyst and other information the Finnish Corporate Governance Code. Main principles of remuneration at Nestlé was as Head of Strategic CEO of Solidium Oy since 2017. at SEB Enskilda 2000–2008, Alfred Professor in Plant Biology and professor The full recommendation can be found Remuneration Report 2019 Business Unit Food with strategic Several leading management positions Berg 1995–2000 and Handelsbanken at the Swedish University of Agricultural at cgfinland.fi. A significant shareholder responsibility for the food business within Nordea Corporate & Investment 1994–1995. Science and the Umeå University. according to the recommendation is a shareholder that holds at least 10% of all Members of the Board of Nestlé at global level. Banking, most notably as Head of Executive director of the Knut and Alice company shares or the votes carried by Corporate Finance in Finland, Head Wallenberg Foundation and the Marianne of Directors of Strategic Coverage unit and as Total remuneration 94 600 and Marcus Wallenberg Foundation. all the shares or a shareholder that has 2019, EUR1 the right or the obligation to purchase Total remuneration 84 300 Co-Head for Corporate & Investment Member of the Royal Swedish Academy the corresponding number of already Members of the Group 2019, EUR1 Meeting attendance 12/12 Financials Banking, Finland 2010–2017. CEO of of Science, the Royal Swedish Academy issued shares. Meeting attendance 12/12 FAC attendance 8/8 Leadership Team FAC attendance eQ Corporation and its main subsidiary RemCo attendance for Agriculture and Forestry Sciences, Anne Brunila was Member of eQ Bank Ltd. 2005–2009. and the Royal Swedish Academy of RemCo attendance Stora Enso’s Board of Directors since SECo attendance Engineering Sciences. His previous Appendix 1 SECo attendance 2/23 Shareholding2 Owns 20 834 positions include Vice chancellor of April 2013 until her resignation on 14 March 2019. She was independent of the Shareholding2 Owns 8 292 Total remuneration 80 200 R shares in company and the significant shareholders. Umeå University 2005–2010, Chair of R shares in 2019, EUR1 Stora Enso. Umeå Plant Science Center 1996–2004, Stora Enso. Meeting attendance 12/12 Independent member Yes/no6 Chair of SciLifeLab Sweden 2013–2016 Independent member Yes FAC attendance as well as Board member of the Human RemCo attendance 9/94 Protein Atlas project and the Wallenberg SECo attendance Wood Science Center. Shareholding2 Owns 4 717 R shares in Stora Enso. Total remuneration 80 200 Independent member Yes/no5 2019, EUR1 Meeting attendance 12/12 FAC attendance RemCo attendance Governance SECo attendance 4/4 Shareholding2 Owns 6 792 R shares in Stora Enso. Independent member Yes/no7 17 Stora Enso 2019: Governance – Members of the Group Leadership Team Strategy Members of the Group Leadership Team Annual Report 2019 Governance Corporate Governance in Stora Enso 2019 Shareholders’ meetings Annica Bresky Seppo Parvi Malin Bendz Johanna Hagelberg Kati ter Horst Hannu Kasurinen Sustainability Board of Directors (Board) Born 1975. M.Sc. (Engineering), MBA. Born 1964. M.Sc. (Econ.). Born 1976. B.Sc. (Personnel Mgmt & Born 1972. M.Sc. (Industrial Eng. & Born 1968. MBA (International Born 1963. M.Sc. (Econ.). Org. Development), MBA. Mgmt) and M.Sc. (Eng. and Mgmt of Business), M.Sc. (Marketing). Board committees Position Position Manufacturing Systems). Position Management of the Company President and Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer (CFO), Deputy Position Position Executive Vice President, Consumer (CEO). Member of the GLT since 2017. CEO. Country Manager Finland and Executive Vice President, HR until Position Executive Vice President, Paper Board Division (Packaging Materials Internal control and risk management Joined the company in 2017. President member of the GLT since 2014. Joined 15 January 2020. Member of the GLT Executive Vice President, Sourcing and Division. Member of the GLT since Division as of 1 January 2020). Member related to financial reporting and CEO since 1 December 2019. the company in 2014. since 2016. Joined the company Logistics. Member of the GLT since 2014. Joined the company in 1996. of the GLT since 4 December 2019. in 2000. 2014. Joined the company in 2013 as Joined the company in 1993. Remuneration Statement Board memberships, principal work Board memberships, principal work SVP Sourcing, Printing and Living. Board memberships, principal work experience and other information experience and other information Board memberships, principal work experience and other information Board memberships, principal work Decision making procedure Executive Vice President, Consumer CFO and EVP, Food and Medical experience and other information Board memberships, principal work Senior Vice President, Paper Sales, experience and other information Main principles of remuneration Board Division 2017–2019. President Business Area at Ahlstrom Corporation Several international positions experience and other information Stora Enso Printing and Living until SVP, Liquid Packaging and Carton and CEO of Iggesund Paperboard 2009–2014. CFO for Metsä Board in human resources, business Chief Procurement Officer at Vattenfall 2014. Prior to that several managerial Board in Consumer Board Division until Remuneration Report 2019 AB, part of the Swedish Holmen (M-real) 2006–2009. Prior to that development and purchasing. Member AB 2010–2013. Prior to that leading positions in the paper business. Vice December 2019. Prior to that several Group 2013–2017. Mill Director at various line management positions at of the Stora Enso Paper division Sourcing positions at NCC, RSA Chair of the Board of EURO-GRAPH leadership positions in Stora Enso, Members of the Board BillerudKorsnäs AB 2010–2013. Prior the packaging company Huhtamäki, management team 2015–2016, Scandinavia and within the Automotive asbl. Member of the Board of including Group Treasurer, SVP of of Directors to that engineering and superintendent including responsibilities such as paper Renewable Packaging management Industry. Member of the Board of Finnish Forest Industries Federation, Strategy and EVP of Wood Products positions at Stora Enso’s Kvarnsveden manufacturing within Rigid Packaging team 2012–2014 and Latin America Bufab AB. Outokumpu Oyj and Climate Division. Members of the Group Financials Mill in 2001–2010. Member of the Europe and General Manager for Division Management team Leadership Coalition. Leadership Team Board of AB Fagerhult. Turkey. Deputy Chair of the Board of 2004–2008. Shareholding Shareholding the Finnish Forest Industries Federation Owns 16 039 R shares in Stora Enso. Shareholding Owns 31 486 R shares in Stora Enso. Shareholding and Pohjolan Voima Oy. Member of the Shareholding Owns 38 772 R shares in Stora Enso. Appendix 1 Does not own any Stora Enso shares. Board of Ilmarinen and East Office of Owns 19 162 R shares in Stora Enso. Finnish Industries Oy. Shareholding Owns 32 202 R shares in Stora Enso. Governance 18 Stora Enso 2019: Governance – Members of the Group Leadership Team Strategy Annual Report 2019 Karl-Henrik Sundström, CEO, was a member of the Group Leadership Team until 30 November 2019. Gilles van Nieuwenhuyzen, EVP Packaging Solutions, was a member of the Group Leadership Team until 6 December 2019. Governance David Ekberg, acting Head of Packaging Solutions as of 6 December 2019, not a member of GLT. Corporate Governance Seppo Toikka, acting Head of Wood in Stora Enso 2019 Products as of 1 January 2020, not a member of GLT. Shareholders’ meetings Ulrika Lilja Per Lyrvall Markus Mannström Noel Morrin Jari Suominen Sustainability Board of Directors (Board) Born 1975. M.Sc. (BA and Econ.). Born 1959. LL.M. Born 1963. M.Sc. (Paper Tech.). Born 1958. B.Sc. Joint Honours, First Born 1969. M.Sc. (BA). Class (Chemistry and Biology). Board committees Position Position Position Position Management of the Company Executive Vice President, Executive Vice President, Legal, Executive Vice President, Biomaterials Position Executive Vice President, Wood Communications. Member of the General Counsel. Country Manager Division. Member of the GLT since Executive Vice President, Products Division until 31 December Internal control and risk management GLT since 2014. Joined the company Sweden. Acting Head of HR as of 2015. Joined the company in 2001. Sustainability. Member of the GLT since 2019. Executive Vice President, Forest related to financial reporting in 2014 as Senior Vice President 16 January 2020. Member of the GLT 2015. Joined the company in 2015. Division as of 1 January 2020. Member Communications, Stora Enso Printing since 2012. Joined the company Board memberships, principal work of the GLT since 2014. Joined the Remuneration Statement and Living. as Legal Counsel in 1994. General experience and other information Board memberships, principal work company in 1995. Counsel since 2008. Country Manager Chief Technology Officer (CTO) of experience and other information Decision making procedure Board memberships, principal work Sweden since 2013. the company 2015–2017. Member Group SVP for Sustainability & Green Board memberships, principal work Main principles of remuneration experience and other information of the Renewable Packaging division Support at Skanska AB 2005–2015. experience and other information Director of External Communications Board memberships, principal work management team 2009–2014. Group Environment Director at RMC Senior Vice President, Head of Building Remuneration Report 2019 at SSAB 2010–2013. Prior to that experience and other information Member of the Board of Teollisuuden plc 1999–2005. Prior to that senior and Living Business Area until 2014. several leading communications Prior to joining Stora Enso legal Voima Oyj, Montes del Plata, Veracel roles at the UK National Environmental Prior to that several managerial Members of the Board positions at OMX Stockholm Stock positions at Swedish courts, law firms and Tree to Textile. Deputy Member of Technology Centre, the British NGO positions in paper and wood products of Directors Exchange and Neonet. Member of and Assi Domän. Member of the Board the Board of Pohjolan Voima Oy. Business in the Community and the businesses. Chair of Finnish Wood the Board of Swedish Association of of Montes del Plata and Bergvik Skog global chemical company ICI plc. Products Industry Association. Member Members of the Group Financials Communication Professionals. AB. Deputy Member of the Board of Shareholding of the Board of Tornator. Member of Leadership Team Skogsindustrierna. Owns 18 392 R shares in Stora Enso. Shareholding the supervisory board of Varma Mutual Shareholding Owns 33 756 R shares in Stora Enso. Pension Insurance Company. Deputy Owns 25 732 R shares in Stora Enso. Shareholding Member of the Board of East Office of Appendix 1 Owns 58 105 R shares in Stora Enso Finnish Industries Oy. directly and 1 257 R shares through related persons (spouse). Shareholding Owns 37 985 R shares in Stora Enso. Governance 19 Stora Enso 2019: Governance – Appendix 1 Strategy Appendix 1 Annual Report 2019 Due to differences between the Swedish and Finnish legislation, governance code rules and corporate governance practices Stora Enso’s Corporate Governance deviates in the following aspects from the Swedish Corporate Governance Code: Rule 1.3 The company’s nomination committee is to propose a chair Governance for the annual general meeting. The proposal is to be presented in the notice of the meeting. • According to Finnish annual general meeting (AGM) practice, Corporate Governance the Chair of the Board of Directors opens the meeting and in Stora Enso 2019 proposes the chair for the AGM. The proposed chair is normally an attorney-at-law. Shareholders’ meetings Sustainability Board of Directors (Board) Rule 2.1 The nomination committee is also to make proposals on the Board committees election and remuneration of the statutory auditor. • According to the Finnish Code, the Financial and Audit Committee Management of the Company shall make a recommendation on the auditor election for the Internal control and risk management Board, which shall give its proposal on the matter to the AGM. related to financial reporting Rule 9.6 The shareholders’ meeting is to decide on all share and Remuneration Statement share-price related incentive schemes for the executive management. • The company’s incentive schemes are established by the Board of Decision making procedure Directors. If the programmes include the issuance of new shares Main principles of remuneration or disposal of shares held by the Company then such issuance of Remuneration Report 2019 share or an authorisation to the Board of Directors to decide on such issuance of shares will be subject to shareholder approval. Members of the Board of Directors Rule 9.9 Guidelines regarding remuneration to the board and executive management are also to cover salary and other Members of the Group remuneration to other members of the executive management. Financials Leadership Team • According to the Finnish Code, the remuneration guidelines (called policy according to the Finnish Code) is not to cover other executives than the CEO and Deputy CEO, and shall cover all Appendix 1 Board remuneration. Rule 10.5 The remuneration report is to contain a reference to where in the company’s annual report the information required by Chapter 5, Sections 40–44 of the Swedish Annual Accounts Act (1995:1554) is to be found. • The Company reports in accordance with the Finnish accounting regulation and does therefore not include this note in it’s remuneration report. Governance Strategy Stora Enso Oyj Annual Report 2019 P.O. Box 309 FI-00101 Helsinki, Finland Visiting address: Kanavaranta 1 Tel. +358 2046 131 Stora Enso AB P.O. Box 70395 SE-107 24 Stockholm, Sweden Visiting address: World Trade Center Klarabergsviadukten 70 Tel. +46 1046 46 000 storaenso.com group.communications@storaenso.com Sustainability Concept and design: Miltton Oy Photography: Alija, Riku Aronen, Lasse Arvidson, Mikko Auerniitty, Roberto Brusacá, Markus Bullik, Deniz Dayan, Iryna Dobytchina, Justyna Veni Ejsmont, Fang Xia Nuo, Vilma Favén, Jonatan Fernström / Rymd Communication, Markus Haapamäki, Tuomas Harjumaaskola, Rasmus Hartikainen, Juho Heikkinen, Sanna Heiskanen, Jussi Hellsten, Jarmo Hietaranta, Matti Immonen, Petri Juntunen, Kaapo Kamu, Krista Keltanen, Brycia James Kiewlak, Tim Kinnander, Tuukka Koski, Aleksi Koskinen, Veikko Kähkönen, Lily Li, Patrik Lindén, Hanna Linnakko, Michele Lugaresi, Annamari Luukkainen, Dandan Lyu , Johanna Myllymäki, Harri Mäenpää, Jouni Niemimaa, Mikko Nikkinen, Tuuli Nummelin, Financials Felix Odell, Mikko Ryhänen, Niklas Sandström, Heidi Strengell, Christian Stummer, Mari Sumuranta, Patrik Svedberg, Mattias Södermark, Ernst Tobisch, Igor Tratkowski, Tiina Tuomainen, Timo Tuviala / Tavaton Media, Kimmo Velling, Mats Vuorenjuuri, Adobe Stock, C-Green Technology AB, Fond & Fond, Getty Images, MODE Artes Visuales, Pixabay, Scala Photography, The Moment It Clicks Pty Ltd, and Stora Enso’s image bank. It should be noted that Stora Enso and its business are exposed to various risks and uncertainties and certain statements herein which are not historical facts, including, without limitation those regarding expectations for market growth and developments; expectations for growth and profitability; and statements preceded by “believes”, “expects”, “anticipates”, “foresees”, or similar expressions, are forward-looking statements. Since these statements are based on current plans, estimates and projections, they involve risks and uncertainties, which may cause actual results to materially differ from those expressed in such forward-looking statements. Such factors include, but are not limited to: (1) operating factors such as continued success of manufacturing activities and the achievement of efficiencies therein, continued success of product development, acceptance of new products or services by the Group’s targeted customers, success of the existing and future collaboration arrangements, changes in business strategy or development plans or targets, changes in the degree of protection created by the Group’s patents and other intellectual property rights, the availability of capital on acceptable terms; (2) industry conditions, such as strength of product demand, intensity of competition, prevailing and future global market prices for the Group’s products and the pricing pressures thereto, price fluctuations in raw materials, financial condition of the customers and the Governance competitors of the Group, the potential introduction of competing products and technologies by competitors; and (3) general economic conditions, such as rates of economic growth in the Group’s principal geographic markets or fluctuations in exchange and interest rates. All statements are based on management’s best assumptions and beliefs in light of the information currently available to it and Stora Enso assumes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement except to the extent legally required.
