Exxaro Resources Limited United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2019 Communication on Progress IFC CEO statement of report 1 Human rights 2 Labour 4 Environment 12 Anti-corruption 13 Sustainable development goals 19 Administration www.exxaro.com Read more online Statement CEO statement of support Exxaro Resources (Exxaro) is one of the largest South Africa-based diversified resources companies, with interests in the coal, titanium dioxide, ferrous, zinc and renewable energy commodities. Exxaro became a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) in 2007. As one of the foremost black-owned diversified resources companies listed on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange, the signing of the UNGC marked our foundational commitment to sustainability. The commitment and focus is ongoing and we are once again proud to reaffirm our support of the 10 principles of the Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. In this Communication on Progress for 2019, we draw on Exxaro’s Integrated and ESG reports for 2019 to describe how the 10 UNGC principles are incorporated into our business. The Integrated Report and ESG Report are both products of the company’s strategic objectives, legislative and regulatory requirements, including the Companies Act of South Africa, 71 of 2008 as amended (Companies Act), the Mining Charter and the JSE Limited Listings Requirements, as well as global best practice standards as reflected in the International Integrated Reporting Council’s framework for integrated reporting, the Global Reporting Initiative GRI, UN Global Compact principles, the King Report on Governance for South Africa 2009 (King IVTM*) and AccountAbility 1000SES. Exxaro remains an active member of the National Business Initiative (NBI) in South Africa. The NBI has aligned the South African National Development Plan (NDP) and the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), and awareness has been created in business on the need to support the SDGs. From the basis of moral and economic imperatives, Exxaro is addressing many of the SDGs in our sustainability drive. Details of sustainability successes can be found in both the Integrated and ESG reports and are available online under: https://www.exxaro.com/investors/integrated-reports Sincerely, Mxolisi Mgojo Chief Executive Officer Exxaro Resources For enquiries: Contact: Hanno Olinger, Manager Integrated Reporting and ESG Email: hanno.olinger@exxaro.com Fixed: +27 12 307 3359 Fax: +27 12 307 5327 * Copyright and trademarks are owned by the Institute of Directors South Africa NPC and all of its rights are reserved. 1 Exxaro Resources Limited United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2019 Human rights Global compact principle Policies and management systems Summary of actions and results Human rights 1 Businesses should support Exxaro has a Labour and Human Rights Policy (Policy) enforced in which the Exxaro has consistently complied with this policy during 2019 and no transgressions have been recorded at any and respect the intent under paragraph 4 is stated as operations, subsidiaries or suppliers of Exxaro both in South protection of follows: Africa and internationally. internationally “The Company, as a responsible employer, proclaimed will at all times comply with all labour human rights. legislation in South Africa, including the Constitution of the Republic of South Africa, the Labour Relations Act, the Basic Conditions of Employment Act, the Employment Equity Act, the Skills Development Act, the Unemployment Insurance Act, the Mine Health and Safety Act, and the Occupational Health and Safety Act. “The Company will also comply with all International Labour Organization Codes and guidelines as ratified by the Republic of South Africa.” Under paragraph 5.1 of the Policy it states: “The Company unreservedly supports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.” Under paragraph 5.2 of the Policy it states: “The Company unreservedly supports the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises.” 2 Make sure that they are not As reported under UNGC Principle 1, the Policy also covers human rights abuses. Induction programmes educate all employees and contractors on human rights. Refresher courses are complicit in available to all employees and contractors also cover human Under paragraph 6 of the Policy it states: human rights rights issues. “The Company will ensure that all abuses. employees are trained in the principles Furthermore, policies on discrimination, harassment and of Human Rights on an ongoing basis.” racism are in place, as are structures to protect employees’ human rights in the workplace. Exxaro’s Supplier Code of Conduct requires that every supplier or service Exxaro’s employees are aware of their human rights and to provider adhere to Human Rights related date Exxaro has not been complicit in the violation of any declarations, labour laws, regulations and human rights. guidelines. These include, inter alia: Suppliers and service providers are aware of their • Universal Declaration of Human Rights responsibilities towards their workers and the human rights (1948) that their employees must be afforded. • International Labour Organization (ILO) international labour standards • ILO codes of practice in safety and health • Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) guidelines for multinational enterprises • Constitution of the Republic of South Africa (Act 108 of 1996) • Basic Conditions of Employment Act (No 11 of 2002). 2 Exxaro Resources Limited United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2019 Labour Global compact principle Policies and management systems Summary of actions and results Labour 3 Businesses should uphold Paragraph 4.3 of the Policy states the following: Constructive engagement remains the cornerstone of our approach to organised labour. All our trade union engagement the right to “The Company supports an employee’s structures are functioning well as a vital conduit for managing freedom of right to Freedom of Association and to issues. In addition, our employee relations strategy provides an association and join a trade union of their choice.” effective framework for maintaining a healthy workplace the effective climate. Paragraph 4.4 of the Policy states the recognition of following: Our policies and procedures are developed within the the right to “The Company supports the principle framework of relevant labour legislation, and employees are collective of Collective Bargaining. In this regard managed individually and collectively. bargaining. the Company has entered into formal In total, 5 087 of our employees are represented by affiliated recognition agreements with various unions recognised by Exxaro subsidiaries: primarily the trade unions.” National Union of Mineworkers (NUM), Solidarity, the Association of Mineworkers and Construction Union (AMCU), UASA (formerly the United Association of South Africa), the Food and Allied Workers Union (FAWU) and the National Union of Metalworkers of South Africa. Union members ● National Union of Mineworkers 4 094 ● Solidarity 470 ● AMCU 362 ● UASA 69 ● National Union of Metalworkers 48 ● Food and Allied Workers Union 44 Total 5 087 4 The elimination of all forms of Paragraph 4.2 of the Policy states the following: The Basic Conditions of Employment Act (Chapter Six) specifically prohibits the employment of children and forced forced and “Subject to the provisions of the labour. compulsory Constitution of South Africa, the To date Exxaro has not been complicit in the violation of the labour. Company will not cause, demand Policy or the Basic Conditions of Employment Act. or impose forced labour on any other person.” Exxaro performs annual audits on its suppliers and service providers, and during 2019 no violations of the Basic Exxaro’s Supplier Code of Conduct Conditions of Employment Act were recorded. requires that every supplier or service provider adhere to Human Rights related declarations, labour laws, regulations and guidelines. These include, inter alia: • Universal Declaration of Human Rights (1948) • ILO international labour standards • Constitution of the Republic of South Africa (Act 108 of 1996) • Basic Conditions of Employment Act (No 11 of 2002). 3 Exxaro Resources Limited United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2019 Labour continued Global compact principle Policies and management systems Summary of actions and results Labour continued 5 The effective abolition of child Paragraph 4.1 of the Policy states the following: The employee master file records for 2019 disclose that no employees younger than 18 years of age were in the employ labour. “The Company will not employ child of Exxaro. labour in contravention of the Basic Below is the percentage distribution of employees by age: Conditions of Employment Act and the Occupational Health and Safety Act.” Employee distribution by age 20 20 17 16 15 12 (%) 10 10 9 10 5 5 0 0 <17 18 — 25 26 — 30 31 — 35 36 — 40 41 — 45 46 — 50 51 — 55 56 — 65 Age 6 The elimination of discrimination Paragraph 4.5 of the Policy states the following: There is no discrimination between the salaries of men and women in the bargaining unit category as collective in respect of “The Company promotes the agreements determine specific guaranteed minimum salaries. employment and principles of Equal Opportunities and In the management and specialist category, individual salaries occupation. prohibits unfair discrimination, and are strictly based on contracted performance. has established policies — namely, the Employment Equity policy and policies prohibiting Racial Harassment, Sexual Harassment, and Unfair Discrimination — to promote these principles.” As an employer, Exxaro is firmly committed to the concept and practice of equal opportunity, irrespective of race, religion, gender, health status, sexual preference or nationality. Our corporate values guide the way we do business, and discrimination on any grounds is not acceptable. A comprehensive suite of policies covers employment, labour relations, occupational health and safety, training and education, diversity and equal opportunity. Our aim is to provide working conditions that are safe and healthy, opportunities that are enriching and an environment conducive to performance. 4 Exxaro Resources Limited United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2019 Environment Global compact principle Policies and management systems Summary of actions and results Environment 7 Businesses should support a Exxaro adopts the precautionary principle, which is entrenched in the National Environmental All of Exxaro’s business units have ISO 14001 accreditation, reflecting the global industry precautionary Management Act (NEMA), when evaluating the standards in place to minimise environmental approach to environmental impacts of business opportunities. impacts. environmental We focus on responsible use by conserving challenges. natural resources and reducing the burden of pollutants on the environment through: • Ensuring all activities are properly authorised All our South African operations have environmental • Complying with all statutory environmental management programmes (EMPs) as required under requirements as a minimum the Mineral and Petroleum Resources Development • Using energy and water as efficiently as Act (MPRDA) and NEMA. possible • Conducting activities responsibly from the twin perspectives of compliance and natural resource use • Actively participating in voluntary benchmarks, such as the global carbon and water disclosure projects • Developing innovative policies and programmes to address environmental impacts and use of natural resources. Comprehensive group standards have enhanced These standards inform key measurable compliance the implementation of legal requirements and indicators to ensure that Exxaro remains a legally sustainable use of natural resources. These authorised sustainable business. include management standards for air quality, water, energy, rehabilitation and mine closure, and environmental incident management and reporting. Legal compliance South African mining companies are heavily During 2019 environmental licensing applications for regulated, with compliance centred on receiving, various new projects were at different stages of converting and retaining all mining rights. To their respective regulatory assessment. We have ensure that we continue to meet legal continuously engaged with the relevant authorities, requirements as a minimum, compliance across agencies and other stakeholders to expedite these Exxaro is monitored by two board-mandated licences. entities: the sustainability, risk and compliance committee as well as the social and ethics committee. Running all our operations with approved EMPs is Exxaro received no environmental stoppage fundamental to our sustainability and legal directives and no fines were issued during 2019. compliance. 8 Undertake initiatives to Key continuous environmental risks at Exxaro’s operations have been identified and are listed These risks have been determined with the commensurate impacts and the mitigation actions promote greater below: required to minimise or avoid these risks. environmental • Greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) Exxaro performed an annual enterprise-wide risk responsibility. • Air quality management assessment in 2019 and no environmental risks were • Water quality management, security of supply listed in the top 10 of the enterprise risk register. • Hazardous waste management The risk ranking is dictated by the residual risk score • Biodiversity management after all potential treatments and controls have been • Ongoing rehabilitation put in place. This excellent result is due to robust • Cost of, and provision for, environmental risk management continuously performed at the liabilities operations. • Improving compliance to granted environmental licences • Increasing statutory and non-statutory environmental requirements • Environmental incidents (Level 3). 5 Exxaro Resources Limited United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2019 Environment continued Global compact principle Policies and management systems Summary of actions and results Environment continued 8 Undertake initiatives to Carbon footprint Scope 1: Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) However, a risk related to the environment is Climate Change, and it was ranked as the second-highest risk promote greater emissions, measured in tons of carbon dioxide after moving up from 11th place in the 2018 rankings. environmental equivalent (tCO2e) from sources owned or Refer  to Exxaro’s 2019 Integrated Report for more responsibility. controlled by Exxaro, eg emissions from diesel, details (pages 61 — 68). continued petrol, gas and anthracite combusted in day-to-day mining operations. Scope 2: GHG emissions from electricity generation by Eskom (South Africa’s largest power utility), purchased by Exxaro. Scope 3: Emissions outside our control but emanating from our products or activities, eg customer burning coal sold by Exxaro. The scope 1, 2 and 3 emission protocol provides a common measurement platform to compare firms, aggregate data to national level and compare countries. South Africa has set arguably the most aggressive carbon abatement targets of any developing country: to reduce emissions by 34% below business as usual by 2020, and 42% by 2025. Operational activities are guided by our climate change response strategy. A steering committee oversees related improvement projects and activities, and ensures that these are aligned with Exxaro’s climate change position statement. This supports a clear understanding of the risks and opportunities presented by energy and emissions in the broader sense, and enables operations to focus on managing energy, emissions and other climate change-related issues. Carbon disclosure Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) Exxaro participates in two programmes: CDP Exxaro’s current CDP score is a B and falls within the Climate Change (since 2008) and CDP Water. CDP’s Management Level of maturity. Organisations The CDP (formerly the Carbon Disclosure scoring a B are in the 38% of highest scoring Project) is a UK-based global climate change companies on the CDP index. Exxaro’s CDP score of B reporting system. Our carbon performance is is above the global coal mining average score of D. externally assured annually. Exxaro also exceeds the global cross-industry average CDP score of C. Energy management Energy management Exxaro considers the consumption of electricity The primary sources of energy for Exxaro’s mining and diesel as a proxy for GHG emissions. operations are diesel and electricity. After being normalised to the energy unit of measure, As part of Exxaro’s energy and carbon gigajoules (GJ), diesel and electricity account for management programme, our coal operations 38% and 62% of energy consumed, respectively. have focused on reducing energy consumption, including projects to specifically increase the Total energy consumed in 2019 was 5 179 561GJ efficiency of diesel and electricity use. (2018: 4 977 270GJ). 6 Exxaro Resources Limited United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2019 Environment continued Global compact principle Policies and management systems Summary of actions and results Environment continued 8 Undertake initiatives to The head office technology department has initiated a project to reduce diesel consumption This represented a nominal year-on-year increase of 4% (2018: 8%). promote greater at all our operations. To facilitate energy-saving The increase in diesel consumption during 2019 was environmental initiatives, energy-intensity targets are set primarily driven by higher levels of activity in responsibility. annually based on the prior two-year concurrent rehabilitation across all the operations. continued performance for each operation, and are Secondly, the increase in diesel consumption was also monitored monthly. These targets were driven by higher production levels at Exxaro’s flagship reviewed at the end of 2017 and long-term operation — Grootegeluk. (five years) targets have been proposed. Although the nominal electricity and diesel consumption figures increased in 2019, the trend for energy intensity, at a group level, moved in a positive direction. The electricity intensity (based on production tonnes) was 13.8MWh/kt (2018: 12.9MWh/kt). The corresponding group-level diesel intensity measure (based on production tonnes) was 2 183l/kt (2018: 1 762l/kt). At a group level, the electricity and diesel intensity measures thus increased by 6.6% and 23.9% respectively. Diesel consumption increased substantially due to longer-haul distances. Air quality Air quality As a mining group, air quality is a risk to Exxaro Comparing Exxaro’s dust-fallout rate against the on several levels, particularly dust and other regulated non-residential limit (1 200mg/m2/day), pollutants (eg PM10 and PM2.5) from opencast two operations exceeded the two allowable annual operations. Accordingly, we focus on: limits in 2019. Refer to Exxaro’s 2019 ESG Report • Minimising impact on the receiving for more details (page 27). environment • Full legislative compliance • Air quality management planning • Risk management • Monitoring, measurement and reporting. Daily measures ensure that we address the challenges of Exxaro’s dust-generating activities (blasting, drilling, crushing and screening, vehicle entrainment, materials handling and wind erosion of exposed operational areas). These include applying dust-suppressant agents on haul roads, watering secondary unpaved operational roads, and vegetating topsoil stockpiles and overburden material. All mining operations monitor daily dust fallout rates and results are assessed against national regulations. We track our compliance against the stringent residential limit (600mg/m2/day) instead of the non-residential limit (1 200mg/m2/day) to minimise the impact on residents. This will ensure that fallout dust is reduced to the residential limit. 7 Exxaro Resources Limited United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2019 Environment continued Global compact principle Policies and management systems Summary of actions and results Environment continued 8 Undertake initiatives to Water management Water is a strategic natural resource for South Water management Water management is integral to our licence to promote greater Africa. It is also key to our business. The Exxaro operate. The 2019 group water strategy identified environmental water management policy therefore defines our the following focus areas to excel in: responsibility. commitment to the sustainable use of water, • Compliance continued with a strong focus on efficiency through reuse • Operational water efficiency and recycling. This policy is aligned to the • Policies, standards and processes legislative environmental framework governed • Water technologies mainly by the National Water Act 36 1998. In • Stakeholder partnerships. support of the Act, the Department of Water A comprehensive programme is entrenching Affairs has issued an integrated water resource responsible and sustainable water management management hierarchy that prioritises mine and across Exxaro. It concentrates on relevant water-use waste management decisions and actions. This and related risk issues — from security of supply to hierarchy informs both our policy and strategy water efficiency and water-cost management — and on mine and wastewater management as: manages these within current and anticipated • Pollution prevention regulatory compliance requirements. This is • Minimise environmental impacts supported by continually enhancing our competence • Maximise water reuse and reclamation in water-management issues through company-wide • Responsible water discharge and disposal research and skills development. We also reinforce • Water treatment. awareness of water issues through ongoing Translating policy into action, our management communication and training. standard on water for mining and industrial use Our strategy also articulates aspirational goals that articulates our commitment to develop and include becoming self-sufficient in our operational implement an effective integrated water and water requirements and becoming a leader in water waste management plan across the lifecycle of technology solutions. a mine. This includes planning, construction, operation, decommissioning, closure and We are managing water-related risks, minimising rehabilitation phases. The standard reflects impacts and operating efficiently through reduction, management’s vision to: reuse and recycling. Most of our operations have • Ensure a cost-effective, integrated approach water conservation plans that support the national to water management strategy to ensure equitable distribution of water • Be environmentally responsible resources that allows for business growth and • Be ecologically sustainable. protection (sustainable use). These management standards are enacted by We are also committed to protecting and improving adhering to the Department of Water and water quality by ensuring that the water we Sanitation’s best practice guidelines on: discharge is the same as, or better than, the • The integrated water and waste management original. Central to this are the two water plan treatment plants in our Mpumalanga region as part • Stormwater management planning of our long-term water-management strategy. These • Water and salt balances plants have total capacity to treat 11.5 megalitres • Water-monitoring systems per day. The plant at Matla has been operational for • Water reuse and reclamation four years. • Pollution control dams • Environmental performance indicators. 8 Exxaro Resources Limited United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2019 Environment continued Global compact principle Policies and management systems Summary of actions and results Environment continued 8 Undertake initiatives to Hazardous waste management Waste management is a key compliance Hazardous waste The total weight of hazardous waste generated promote greater indicator in Exxaro’s social licence to operate. at our managed coal operations in 2019 environmental Our group-wide standard enforces use of the unfortunately increased by 51% to 4 090 tonnes responsibility. waste management hierarchy, which in turn (2018: 2 695 tonnes). continued promotes waste prevention or minimisation, reuse, recycling, recovering energy and ensuring safe disposal of waste in line with the National Environmental Management: Waste Act 59 2008 and supporting legislation. Exxaro is developing abatement plans for waste-tyre stockpiles as per requirements issued by the Department of Environmental Affairs. Responsible conservation of biodiversity Biodiversity management Biodiversity means species diversity and species During 2019 Exxaro’s biodiversity investments richness in an ecological environment. In focused on wetland rehabilitation, wetland offsets, Exxaro, our goal is to conserve biodiversity for delineation and wetland studies. future generations by sustainably using the resources of our mining operations and South Africa’s natural resources. To reach this goal, we have developed The principles of these guidelines are already biodiversity action plans for our business units. incorporated into our planning and execution phases. In addition, our comprehensive biodiversity As an example, the principles of best-practice management standard was approved in 2019. standard were used in several projects to avoid The guiding principles include the best-practice constructing infrastructure in sensitive wetland areas. standard on wetland offsets (Wetland Offsets: The Belfast beneficiation plant is an example of where A Best Practical Guideline for South Africa, best-practice standards were applied in the design 2014), as well as the Mining and Biodiversity phase of the project. Impacts upon the Guideline: Mainstreaming biodiversity into the environmentally sensitive wetlands were avoided by mining sector, jointly published by the the relocation of the beneficiation plant. Department of Environmental Affairs, the Department of Mineral Resources (DMR), the Chamber of Mines, the South African Mining and Biodiversity Forum and the South African National Biodiversity Institute, 2013. In addition to complying with legislation and best practice, we aim to develop a competitive advantage through conservation and reestablishing resilient ecosystems that underscore our commitment to duty-of-care principles. Risk-based external reviews The annual risk analyses and external audits were In the first quarter each year, our sustainability done in 2019 and most of the findings have been department and each business unit perform a successfully addressed. risk analysis based on the group environment and risk assurance process, with risks reported to appropriate management in terms of Exxaro’s governance process. Where mines are eligible for an external review, these are conducted under commercial agreements with competent third parties. 9 Exxaro Resources Limited United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2019 Environment continued Global compact principle Policies and management systems Summary of actions and results Environment continued 8 Undertake initiatives to Concurrent rehabilitation plan All business units have a five-year concurrent At 31 December 2019, the total land disturbed was promote greater rehabilitation schedule and associated budget: 10 325ha (2018: 9 559ha) and total land rehabilitated environmental • The schedules set measurable targets for was 2 277ha (2018: 2 469ha). Thus, the ratio of responsibility. each mine previously disturbed land having been rehabilitated continued • Schedules prevent backlogs from building up, during 2019 is 22% (2018: 26%). increasing liabilities • Budgets enable managers to implement plans without cash flow constraints. Environmental liabilities and rehabilitation Liabilities All business units review their financial Refer  to the Exxaro ESG Report for detailed figures provisions annually. They also consider on liabilities per operation. amendments to rehabilitation plans and closure objectives based on regular EMP performance assessments. The cost estimates of activities in the concurrent and final-closure rehabilitation programme are reviewed and adjusted where necessary. Water-related liabilities are calculated as per the Exxaro excess water risks and liability management standard. The Exxaro Environmental Rehabilitation EERF Fund (EERF) During 2019 the trust funds earned R250 million The Exxaro EERF trust fund provides for a (2018: R146 million), including cash contributions, portion of these liabilities, while additional bank interest earned on investments and fair-value guarantees are taken out to provide for new adjustments. developments and cover any shortfalls in The fund has recorded a 15% growth (2018: 9%). financial provisions. Environmental rehabilitation liabilities are updated biannually Updating these provisions biannually highlights for internal reporting at interim and financial potential rehabilitation alternatives that could year end, and submitted annually to the DMR. decrease the long-term closure liabilities of mines. 10 Exxaro Resources Limited United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2019 Environment continued Global compact principle Policies and management systems Summary of actions and results Environment continued 8 Undertake initiatives to Mine closure All closure activities are executed against Mine closure Exxaro had six operations in active closure in 2019: promote greater risk-based principles. As several Exxaro mines Arnot, Tshikondeni, Durnacol, Hlobane, Strathrae and environmental are nearing their end of life, mine-closure Gravelotte. responsibility. planning is already in place to ensure that the continued Case study: Tshikondeni Mine Closure closure process complies with the latest legislative requirements. The Tshikondeni mine stopped operating in late 2014 when the coal resources were exhausted. Understanding that operational closure, concurrent rehabilitation and land management Exxaro undertook to minimise the impacts of the activities directly link employees, community, mine closure at Tshikondeni on the local communities. environment, government and infrastructure, The Tshikondeni Legacy Project was launched, and it we are committed to: is a partnership between Exxaro and the local Makuya • Ensuring that the operational closure process Tribe. The Makuya Tshikondeni Development is conducted inclusively and within the legal Foundation (MTDF) was established as a non-profit framework company to hold the assets and receive proceeds on • Proactively managing environmental impacts behalf of the local Makuya Tribe. to minimise residual liabilities • Leaving behind a positive legacy for our During 2019 Exxaro Resources donated the employees and local communities Tshikondeni mine village and related infrastructure to • Allocating required financial resources to the MTDF. ensure that this process is concluded Furthermore, funding was approved to establish an • Managing Exxaro land according to an agreed eco-village as a core business activity of the MTDF. strategy. The Tshikondeni area is located alongside a national game reserve. In 2019 Exxaro handed over 56 homes to the local community as part of the closure plans. The homes handed over directly benefited 56 families and 448 community members. Environmental incidents Exxaro had no Level 3 environmental incidents Exxaro places all the necessary mitigation and during the review period. preventive mechanisms in place to avoid the occurrence of Level 3 environmental incidents. An environmental incident is considered as a Level 3 when the consequences cost more than R500 000 to rehabilitate. 11 Exxaro Resources Limited United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2019 Environment continued Global compact principle Policies and management systems Summary of actions and results Environment continued 9 Encourage the development and Exxaro sponsors academic chair positions at universities to broaden the body of knowledge diffusion of on sustainable development initiatives. environmentally The three university chairs that Exxaro sponsors The chairs each had notable successes and have friendly are: delivered productive outputs. technologies. • The Exxaro chair in global change and Refer  to the 2019 Exxaro ESG Report for more sustainability (Wits) details on the case studies of the university chairs. • The Exxaro chair in business and climate change (Unisa) • The Exxaro chair in energy, water and food (Pretoria) 12 Exxaro Resources Limited United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2019 Anti-corruption Global compact principle Policies and management systems Summary of actions and results Anti-corruption 10 Businesses should work The social and ethics committee of the board approved a comprehensive anti-fraud and An anonymous reporting line has been in place for over a decade in terms whereof reported cases of against all forms anti-bribery programme that runs continuously alleged irregularities are investigated by an in-house of corruption, and involves, among others: dedicated forensic team. including • Awareness training and assessment for For the 2019 financial year, the outcome of forensic extortion and employees as well as part of new employee investigations translated into the following: bribery. induction • 410 investigations • Data analytics on the employee and vendor • 245 disciplinary cases database to proactively detect potential • 124 criminal cases registered declared or undeclared conflicts of interest • 86 arrests • Anti-bribery and corruption due diligence • 57 cases of copper cable theft. checks on high-risk suppliers and third-party intermediaries The total monetary amount of all investigations and • Anti-bribery and corruption checks on any incidents (including copper cable theft) was potential equity investment, joint venture or R5.9 million, of which R0.6 million was recovered. similar association • Independent assessment of the robustness of The number of forensic investigations increased by all anti-fraud and anti-bribery initiatives in 17% from 2018, and the average value destruction terms of ISO 370001 as well as an internal per case in 2019 was R5 500. assessment of compliance with all relevant local and global legislation and regulations including, but not limited to, the South African Companies Act, King IVTM, the OECD guidelines, the South African Prevention and Combating of Corrupt Activities Act, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of the USA, the UK Bribery Act, and the UNGC. 13 Exxaro Resources Limited United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2019 Sustainable development goals Exxaro’s alignment to the SDGs Exxaro is committed to contributing positively to the achievement of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). To this end, in South Africa, we participate in the National Business Initiative to align the 17 SDGs with the country’s National Development Plan. Exxaro is committed, through its strategy, to supporting the country in the implementation of the National Development Plan and the most material SDGs. We employ leading practices in upholding the most material SDGs for our business to leave a lasting net positive impact. As a mining company, and in line with its purpose to power possibilities, Exxaro will intentionally focus on the following SDGs: Ensure healthy lives Provide quality education Empower girls and women Generate and secure Create jobs, sustainable and lifelong learning to achieve gender equality sustainable, clean energy livelihoods and equitable growth Make our local communities Manage natural Combat climate change and Protect our environment and Ensure good governance, inclusive, safe, resilient and resource assets sustainably mitigate its impacts minimise biodiversity loss effective institutions, and sustainable stable and peaceful societies UN SDG Exxaro’s response or contribution Related measurable outcomes 1 End poverty in all its forms South Africa’s national strategy is to address poverty, unemployment and During 2019 Exxaro funded 31 entrepreneurship beneficiaries by means of grants and low-interest loans everywhere. inequality because of the legacy of totalling R171 million. Apartheid. In response to this, Exxaro has These funds were used by the beneficiaries to financially a comprehensive enterprise and supplier strengthen their enterprises. Exxaro has also provided development (ESD) programme that non-financial support to further ensure the economic seeks to foster job creation in those local sustainability and growth of the small enterprises. communities in which we have a footprint. The ESD programme supports An additional 61 small, medium and micro enterprises the establishment of entrepreneurs and (SMMEs) were supported through our social and labour small businesses through grants and plans. In total, R20 million in funding was released for this loans, investment and training. purpose. 2 End hunger, achieve food Our strategy is to seek opportunities in the agricultural sector. This forms part of Exxaro has also entered into a partnership to produce insect-based protein as animal feed. security and Exxaro’s food-energy-water nexus Exxaro has entered into a partnership to introduce improved strategy. Our focus for the future is innovative water leakage technology to the market. The nutrition, and specifically on fostering agricultural and technology allows water pipe leaks to be sealed without the promote land management opportunities to supply need for excavation. The direct benefit of the approach is to sustainable food and enable small enterprises to reduce water losses from the municipal supply side right up agriculture. produce and sell agricultural produce. to the consumer. Furthermore, our future focus is on renewable energy projects. For our water projects, refer to SDG 6. 14 Exxaro Resources Limited United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2019 Sustainable development goals continued UN SDG Exxaro’s response or contribution Related measurable outcomes 3 Ensure healthy lives and Our health and hygiene strategy aims to reduce all forms of occupational and Lost-time injury frequency rate of 0.12 promote lifestyle diseases. Furthermore, we have wellbeing for all, a comprehensive safety improvement at all ages. programme in place to reduce occupation-related injuries and fatalities. We measure the number of injuries and fatalities per 200 000 man-hours worked. We measure the health and hygiene of our employees by identifying and monitoring the occurrence of: • Noise-induced hearing loss (NIHL) 51 cases reported (2018: 65) • Pneumoconiosis • Silicosis Occupational health injury frequency rate of 0.24 • Chronic obstructive airways disease (2018: 0.33) (COAD) • Occupational tuberculosis (TB) We have started monitoring the lifestyle diseases in the company and have identified three major causes of death: Patient confidentiality limits accuracy. • Diabetes • Hypertension • Heart disease We actively run HIV/Aids awareness campaigns and supply anti-retroviral drugs to sustain and improve the health of our HIV-positive employees. 4 Ensure inclusive and equitable This entails focusing on education initiatives through the Exxaro People Exxaro has, on average, invested 45% (2018: 37%) of its annual community budget on education-related initiatives. quality Development Initiative (EPDI) trust. The education and trust’s primary education strategy promote lifelong prioritises early childhood development, learning primary school education and school opportunities infrastructure as part of efforts to ensure for all. that a decent education will provide social mobility, employment opportunities 39 bursars (2018: 59) and reduce poverty. R3.7 million per annum (2018: R4.5 million) We actively provide bursaries to the youth so they can further their tertiary 82% black South Africans (2018: 75%) studies. 28% women (2018: 25%) 5 Achieve gender equality and Our human resources policies that deal with employment equity, women in 22% of Exxaro’s workforce is made up of women. 35% of our interns are women (2018: 36%). empower all mining and diversity support this goal. In women and girls. addition, we host an annual ‘bring a girl 43% of our professionals-in-training are women to work’ day to support opportunities for (2018: 40%). women in the workplace. 15 Exxaro Resources Limited United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2019 Sustainable development goals continued UN SDG Exxaro’s response or contribution Related measurable outcomes 6 Ensure the availability and Going forward, our focus is on supporting water initiatives in communities, For 2019 the water intensity was 0.10kl/TTM (2018: 0.11kl/TTM). sustainable especially with regard to preserving management water, given that it is a scarce commodity of water and in South Africa. As part of our sanitation for all. comprehensive water strategy, our policy is to reduce, reuse and recycle water. We measure our water intensity usage in kilotons per total tons mined (kl/TTM). Our water treatment plant at Matla is producing potable water, and the innovative processes used are reducing the energy required to achieve this. 7 Ensure access to affordable, Exxaro owns 50% of a clean-energy company (with two operational wind Amakhala Emoyeni and the Tsitsikamma Community wind farms have produced clean wind energy since 2016. reliable, farms producing electricity) and is Wind energy sustainable and investigating opportunities to become an 761 000 modern energy independent power producer. 746 941 721 076 for all. The local communities benefit from the 800 000 wind farms through employment opportunities and, in some cases, local 600 000 power supply. (MWh) 400 000 309 780 200 000 0 2016 2017 2018 2019 8 Promote sustained, Exxaro’s focus on enterprise and supplier development will create small businesses Our target is to spend 3% of our annual EBIT (earnings before interest and tax) on this development programme. inclusive and and foster entrepreneurship and sustainable employability. The company’s ultimate economic goal is to make the poor, underprivileged growth, full and and host community members more productive employable. employment and We have constituted the necessary decent work for governance and concomitant processes all. to identify those beneficiaries who require funding, upskilling and development. 16 Exxaro Resources Limited United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2019 Sustainable development goals continued UN SDG Exxaro’s response or contribution Related measurable outcomes 9 Build resilient infrastructure, Efficient capital allocation for sustaining and expanding operations will ensure that Sustaining capital spend for 2019: R2.2 billion (2018: R2.8 billion) promote our infrastructure remains resilient and Expansion capital spend for 2019: R3.6 billion inclusive and environment-friendly. (2018: R2.9 billion) sustainable We have established an innovation industrialisation, department dedicated solely to exploring and foster all opportunities arising from the fourth innovation. industrial revolution. 10 Reduce inequality within Exxaro operates primarily in South Africa. Our focus on transformation is reflected In terms of remuneration, each employee on every level is treated equally and rewarded in line with their performance. and among in a representative workforce, and we The principle is that of equality of treatment, with a countries. have prioritised reducing income differential in outcomes. inequality. Refer to Exxaro’s 2019 ESG Report for more details (page 100). 11 Make cities and human Exxaro’s socio-economic development, community development, and enterprise During 2019 infrastructure development comprised more than 19% (2018: 70%) of social labour spend. The funding settlements and supplier development are was allocated to the construction of community housing, inclusive, safe, contributing to employment and poverty community centres and roads. resilient and reduction, while improving quality of life. sustainable. Our social and labour plans focus on building infrastructure to support our host municipalities and communities. 12 Ensure sustainable Exxaro measures intensity ratios (particularly energy and water use, as For the Exxaro coal operations the average electricity intensity (MWh/kt) rose by 6.6% (2018: 6%). consumption and well as emissions) to minimise our impact Similarly, the average diesel intensity (l/kt) for the coal production on the environment while improving operations rose by 6% (2018: 6% increase). The increase in patterns. productivity. diesel intensity is reflective of non-production-related Increased energy consumption is caused activities that require diesel usage and do not directly raise by longer-haul distances between pit and production volumes. Greater haulage distances also had an plant, higher production volumes and impact at both the Grootegeluk and Leeuwpan operations. increased concurrent rehabilitation. 17 Exxaro Resources Limited United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2019 Sustainable development goals continued UN SDG Exxaro’s response or contribution Related measurable outcomes 13 Take urgent action to combat Exxaro fully supports climate change initiatives in South Africa while adhering GHG emissions during 2019: • Scope 1: climate change to the global view of the situation. Our — 412kt CO2e (2018: 315kt CO2e) and its effects. comprehensive climate change strategy • Scope 2: measures our GHG emissions (scope 1, 2 — 670kt CO2e (2018: 552kt CO2e) and 3). Our focus in our operations is to • Scope 3: reduce our carbon footprint through the — 70 947kt CO2e (2018: 72 928kt CO2e) twin-pronged approach of reducing Exxaro achieved a B score from the CDP for our climate energy consumption and increasing our change performance. overall energy efficiency. We submit our carbon performance to the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) on an annual basis. In addition, Exxaro is a signatory to the commitments undertaken at the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and authorised by the convention’s decision-making body, the Conference of the Parties. 14 Conserve and sustainably use Exxaro has a comprehensive watermanagement strategy but is not located This is currently not a focus area. the oceans, seas near marine resources. and marine resources for sustainable development. 15 Protect, restore and promote the Exxaro aims to minimise our impact on biodiversity as well as on the For 2019 our rehabilitation status was: • Disturbed land: 10 325ha (2018: 9 559ha) sustainable use environments in which we mine. • Rehabilitated land: 2 277ha (2018: 2 469ha) of terrestrial We perform concurrent rehabilitation and ecosystems, execute final rehabilitation on all sustainably operational sites post mine closure. manage forests, combat desertification, halt and reverse land degradation, and halt biodiversity loss. 18 Exxaro Resources Limited United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2019 Sustainable development goals continued UN SDG Exxaro’s response or contribution Related measurable outcomes 16 Promote peaceful and Our socio-economic and community development programmes support this Diverse inclusive goal. Exxaro focuses specifically on societies for maintaining educational institutions sustainable in our communities and on maintaining development, infrastructure such as clinics, training provide access facilities and roads. to justice for all and build effective, accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels. 17 Strengthen means of the Exxaro supports this goal through South Africa’s National Business Initiative (NBI) Enhanced national reputation implementation and the Minerals Council of South Africa and revitalise (MCSA), as well as by engaging with the global mining regulatory bodies. partnership for sustainable development. 19 Exxaro Resources Limited United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2019 Administration Group company secretary United States ADR depositary and registered office The Bank of New York Mellon 101 Barclay Street S van Loggerenberg New York NY 10286 Exxaro Resources Limited United States of America The conneXXion 263B, West Avenue Die Hoewes Registrars Centurion, 0163 Computershare Investor Services Proprietary Limited (PO Box 9229, Pretoria, 0001) Rosebank Tower South Africa 15 Biermann Avenue Tel: +27 12 307 5000 Rosebank, 2196 (PO Box 61051, Marshalltown, 2107) Sponsors Absa Bank Limited (acting through its corporate and Contact investment bank division) With ongoing feedback from a range of stakeholders, we are Barclays Sandton North able to contextualise certain issues better for more informed 15 Alice Lane understanding by readers. We welcome your suggestions, Sandton, 2196 which should be directed to: Hanno Olinger Company registration number Manager: Integrated reporting and ESG 2000/011076/06 Tel: +27 12 307 3359 JSE share code: EXX Mobile: +27 83 609 1094 ISIN code: ZAE000084992 Fax: +27 12 307 5327 Email: hanno.olinger@exxaro.com Web: www.exxaro.com Auditors PricewaterhouseCoopers Incorporated 2 Eglin Road Sunninghill, 2157 Commercial bankers Absa Bank Limited Corporate law advisers Inlexso Proprietary Limited Building 3 Summit Place 221 Garsfontein Road Menlyn Pretoria, 0181 www.exxaro.com
