E V E R Y D A Y I N S I D E B U S I N ES S A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y PERFORMANCE REPORT 2019 This report covers 2019 business and sustainability achievements and was developed before the 2020 Covid-19 crisis. Content, including business and market updates, EHS and sustainability policies and related action plans, does not take into account the impact and consequences of this pandemic on our business. Sha red v al u e 12 Value Chain 14 CEO Interview 16 Locations & Business Units 18 Governance 22 Manufacturing Excellence 24 Environment, Health, and Safety (EHS) B usines s v al u e 26 Business Highlights 28 Packaging 30 Aerospace 32 Automotive 34 Industry, Transportation, and Defense Susta inab le v al u e 37 Sustainability Targets 38 Sustainability Highlights 40 Materiality Assessment 42 Recycling Rates 43 Customer Satisfaction 44 Safety Records 45 Learning & Development 46 Communities 47 Waste Reduction 48 Energy Efficiency 49 Aluminium Stewardship Initiative 50 Sustainable Purchasing 51 Human Rights 52 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Perfor m anc e re p o r t 55 Financial Statements 59 Sustainability Performance 67 GRI 02 Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019 Everyday inside It is the train that flavorful. It is the space takes us to work every satellite that enables morning and brings us us to telephone a friend home at night. The car anytime we want (and that allows us to safely even the rocket that transport our children. carried the satellite The plane that flies us into orbit). Not only is to the other side of the aluminium ubiquitous, world to connect with it can be endlessly our family. Aluminium, recycled. Which means one of the planet’s most we will reuse this vital abundant elements, is material all around us also a major element in to build an even lighter, our daily lives, making brighter, and more our products lighter, sustainable future. safer, and cleaner. It is a cold drink from a can on a summer day, and it is the cans in our kitchen cupboard keeping food Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019 03 ALUMINIUM IS 100 RECYCLABLE % without a reduction in quality Back to Beginnings Aluminium can be endlessly recycled while maintaining its material properties, which is why 75% of the aluminium produced since its discovery is still in use today. Constellium is an industry leader in the sustainable production and recycling of aluminium products. Working with our clients, we collect and recycle manufacturing process metal and end-of-life scrap, and we continually improve our processes to build the most efficient recycling loops. 04 Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019 AN ALUMINIUM CAN TAKES AS LITTLE AS 60 DAYS to return as a new can after recycling A Virtuous Cycle Aluminium cans are the most recycled beverage containers, infinitely reborn in a “closed loop” process and back on the shelf in 60 days. Plastic is typically downcycled into products such as carpet fibers, if it doesn’t end up in the ocean. At Constellium, we have the capacity to recycle the equivalent of 32 billion cans a year. Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019 05 20 REDUCTION IN TOTAL % LIFE CYCLE ENERGY consumption for an aluminium-intensive vehicle* Accelerating Clean Mobility Aluminium is a favorite material of carmakers, and Constellium supplies the automotive market with a range of products that we manufacture in 20+ factories worldwide. Aluminium provides superior energy absorption, to protect passengers and vehicles in the event of a collision. Strong and lightweight, it helps improve fuel economy, reduce CO2 emissions, and increase electric vehicle range, for greener mobility. * SOURCE: Aluminum Association 06 Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019 ~ 200 ALUMINIUM ROLLED kt PRODUCTS CAPACITY at Singen is now ASI certified Certifiably Sustainable One of our largest plants, in Singen, Germany, has been certified against Aluminium Stewardship Initiative (ASI) standards. This important seal of approval means that Singen is able to supply independently certified, responsibly sourced, and sustainably manufactured aluminium products. As a proud founding member of ASI, Constellium is working towards certification of our other facilities. Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019 07 70 OF PLANES flying % today contain components made from our aluminium Reaching for New Heights Since the beginning of the 20 th century, aircraft manufacturers have chosen aluminium for its light weight, strength, and corrosion resistance. Constellium supplies the industry’s highest flyers with the most advanced aluminium alloys, including our Airware® aluminiumlithium alloys. We use precision casting to customize engine components and structural parts. Our pre-machining services reduce waste and customer costs. These solutions and others make the sky the limit for the next generation of lighter, faster, more fuel-efficient planes. 08 Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019 76 LESS GREENHOUSE % GAS EMISSIONS per mile generated by subways than by cars* On the Right Track Switching to public transportation is one of the most effective actions individuals can take to reduce their carbon footprint. On average, heavy rail transit such as subways and metros produce 76% less greenhouse gas emissions per passenger mile than a typical single-occupancy vehicle. Moreover, by reducing congestion, rail transit reduces emissions from cars stuck in traffic. As rail networks expand and modernize around the world, manufacturers rely on Constellium’s lightweight solutions to make trains, trams, and subway systems for the 21st century. * U.S. Department of Transportation, Federal Transit Administration Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019 09 OUR TARGET: ZERO ACCIDENTS No Room for Compromise Safety is our number one priority at Constellium, and at the heart of everything we do. We want every employee, visitor, and contractor to return home safely every day. Our Recordable Case Rate (RCR) is one of the best in the industry. We continue to develop awareness, communication, and training in our relentless pursuit of zero incidents. 10 Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019 This report covers 2019 business and sustainability achievements and was developed before the 2020 Covid-19 crisis. Content, including business and market updates, EHS and sustainability policies and related action plans, does not take into account the impact and consequences of this pandemic on our business. Shared value Aluminium is all around us, a miracle metal that combines strength, lightness, and endless recyclability. It can be made thin enough to be crushed by human hands, yet stand up to the rigors of the stratosphere. From beverage cans to pickup trucks, fuselages to space launchers, Constellium constantly explores the many ways to transform this material and help build a more brilliant future. Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019 11 OUR ROLE Creating value throughout the life cycle of aluminium Aluminium is one of the world’s most abundant elements, a vital material for the 21st century and beyond. Here we show how it is produced, used, and recycled, and Constellium's role in the process. CASTING, EXTRACTING, REFINING, To produce the world’s most widely ROLLING, AND AND SMELTING used non-ferrous metal, mined bauxite EXTRUSION is refined into alumina, then pure aluminium is extracted via the HallHéroult electrochemical process. 2 1 We add other metals to molten aluminium to create customized alloys, and cast them into molded products, ingots, billets, and slabs. We extrude billets to make products such as Crash Management Systems. We roll slabs into plates, sheets, and coils, to be used for cans, car hoods, airplane wings, and more. We recycle scrap from our processes, our customers’ processes, and at the end of a product’s life. We seek to improve recycling through partnerships with stakeholders, since aluminium can be endlessly recycled and retain its material properties. 6 RECYCLING 12 Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019 PRODUCT DESIGN AND MANUFACTURING 3 Experts at our C-TEC Technology Center, Plymouth hub, and Brunel University Technology Center work with our customers to design and develop innovative and sustainable aluminium solutions. 4 PRODUCT USE Our longstanding customers, primarily in the aerospace, packaging, and automotive sectors, use our products and solutions in a range of applications for improved strength, durability, lightness, and fuel consumption. COLLECTING AND SORTING 5 Aluminium recycling makes good economic and ecological sense. Our facilities have stringent procedures for the efficient collection and sorting of end-of-life scrap, which is crucial for effective recycling. We offer similar services to customers. Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019 13 SHARED VALUE Interview Jean-Marc Germain, Chief Executive Officer “Capital allocation is essential, but our future depends first on our people.” How did Constellium perform in 2019? existing Serious Injuries Prevention program and 2019 was another good year, with our Adjusted launching a new company-wide training program to EBITDA and Free Cash Flow significantly exceeding promote behavioral change, called “See Something, our initial guidance. Packaging & Automotive Rolled Say Something.” Employees must recognize safetyProducts and Aerospace & Transportation performed related issues and speak up when they do. extremely well, with strong performance at Muscle Shoals and successful automotive ramp-ups at How are your end markets performing? Bowling Green and Neuf-Brisach. Ravenswood and Packaging, automotive, and aerospace are three Issoire each had a very good year, with favorable secular growth markets representing ~80% of our market conditions in the United States and great revenue in 2019. In each of these markets, we mostly progress on cost control and inventory management. have long-term agreements with our customers. This Automotive Structures faced some challenges, but I lends diversification and stability to our business, am confident in our ability to recover thanks to the while providing a robust foundation for our growth. rigorous action plan we have rolled out. We see increasing opportunities in the packaging Shortly after my arrival in 2016, we established a goal market as recycling and reducing plastic waste of positive Free Cash Flow in 2019. Our success in become societal priorities. We expect aluminium reaching this goal allowed us to pay down €100 million cans, which can be recycled indefinitely, to stand out of our bonds and finance the acquisition of Bowling as the preferred material. Green. We expect to generate significant and We believe that increased aluminium use is a secular sustainable free cash flow in the future. Over time, trend for the automotive market,as carmakers are drawn deleveraging will provide us with the financial to aluminium’s lightweighting and energy absorption flexibility to seize opportunities and to stand firm in capabilities.We anticipate this trend will grow along with challenging market conditions. more stringent emission regulations and higher demand As for EHS, our Recordable Case Rate continues to for hybrid and electric vehicles. Aerospace remains a be well below our 2.61 target *. However, we solid market, with global passenger traffic predicted to experienced a tragic fatality at Děčín. This is clearly rise.We continue to develop our aluminium-lithium offer, unacceptable. In response, we are strengthening our Airware®,while also reducing cost and complexity for our * Our Recordable Case Rate measures the number of fatalities, serious injuries, lost-time injuries, restricted work injuries, or medical treatments per one million hours worked, including by our contractors. 14 Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019 customers with services such as pre-machining and our people.We rely on talented people and on a company closed loop recycling.Most importantly,our relationships culture based on shared values—safety, respect, trust, with our customers go back decades,and we work closely transparency, collaboration, and empowerment. We with them to co-design, develop, and engineer their provide our employees with career development products. These strong, long-term partnerships are a opportunities, and have recently introduced a key aspect of our strategy. Constellium Engineering Development Program and a Global Leadership Training Program to build our talent Constellium transferred its headquarters pipeline. I am eager to see many more internal and in 2019. Why? external recruits and leaders go through these This move was in line with our goal to reduce costs ambitious training courses. and simplify our corporate structure. For the same Preparing for the future also means sustainable reasons, we also delisted from Euronext. By moving investment in R&D to maintain our leadership to France, we aligned our corporate structure with our position, as we need to implement disruptive and major industrial operations, since we had no innovative processes and solutions. For example, operations in the Netherlands. We expect this with Digital@Constellium, we are investigating how transfer to generate tax savings, and it will not affect new technologies can help us improve our industrial how we conduct our business. processes to work more safely and efficiently. I am very excited about our opportunities over the next What are your priorities in terms of decade, as we deliver on our plan while taking full sustainability? advantage of the inherent benefits of aluminium. Constellium has long placed sustainability at the core of our business. We are an industry leader in the production and recycling of aluminium products,which are inherently sustainable—lightweight, durable, and infinitely recyclable. We continue to reinforce our sustainability commitments.I am very proud of Singen’s ASI certification and look forward to having additional sites certified in the coming years. I am also happy to COMMITMENT TO THE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT see that our energy saving and landfilled waste For the eighth consecutive year we support the Ten Principles of the reduction programs are leading us closer to our 2020 United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) in the areas of human rights, reduction targets. We are focusing on environmental labor, environment, and anti-corruption. risks as well, with an increased monitoring policy. How are you preparing for the next decade? 6 to 9% €125 2 02 0 TAR GE TS * Our first priority is our people and their safety, and we continue to aim for zero accidents. We strive to make to 175 our employees proud and excited to work for Adjusted Constellium. I am convinced that sustainability will EBITDA become an increasingly critical component of who we growth million are, what we do, and how we do it. That is why we are Free Cash Flow developing a comprehensive sustainability strategy for the next 10 years,which we expect to announce in 2021. €700+ 2.5 x 2 0 2 2 TA RGE TS * Capital allocation is also essential to our long-term success. We will continue to invest in the reliability and integrity of our assets to achieve the level of quality million net debt/ demanded by our customers and further improve our Adjusted Adjusted competitiveness. Cash generation remains an utmost EBITDA EBITDA priority; we will be disciplined about our spending to reduce our debt, increase our financial flexibility, and selectively consider growth opportunities. Capital * Targets as of December 31, 2019. Given the continuously evolving nature of the COVID-19 allocation is essential, but our future depends first on pandemic, Constellium withdrew all financial guidance on April 2020. Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019 15 SHARED VALUE A global sector leader Manufacturing sites R&D centers REVENUE ADJUSTED EBITDA* EMPLOYEES ■ F  rance ■ E  astern Europe ■ N  orth America and other regions €5.9B €562M ~13,000 ■ G  ermany ■ S  witzerland 5.7 5.9 5.2 562 35% 498 448 +4% 6% +13% 10% 29% 20% 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 * Adjusted EBITDA is a “Non-GAAP measure.” For a reconciliation of this measure to “Net Income,” see the 20-F form. 16 Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019 PACKAGING AND AUTOMOTIVE REVENUE ADJUSTED EBITDA* (in millions of euros) (in millions of euros) ROLLED PRODUCTS Provides aluminium sheets and coils for packaging applications 3,149 273 (beverage and food cans, closures, foilstock, cosmetics), specialty 3,059 2,812 243 products (functional surfaces and industry products), as well as automotive solutions, including Auto Body Sheet. In addition, 204 the business unit recycles end-of-life products, such as used beverage cans. ROLLED RECYCLING PRODUCTS 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 AEROSPACE AND TRANSPORTATION Provides technologically advanced aluminium alloys with wide applications across the global aerospace, transportation, industry, and defense sectors. This business unit offers a wide REVENUE ADJUSTED EBITDA* range of products including plates, sheets, extrusions, and (in millions of euros) (in millions of euros) precision sand castings. Aerospace and Transportation also 1,462 204 provides tailored solutions and value-added services to its 1,389 customers, such as pre-machining and customer scrap recycling. 1,335 152 146 ROLLED PLATES PRODUCTS 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 EXTRUDED PRODUCTS RECYCLING AUTOMOTIVE STRUCTURES AND INDUSTRY REVENUE ADJUSTED EBITDA* (in millions of euros) (in millions of euros) Provides advanced solutions for the global automotive industry, including Crash Management Systems (CMS), 1,351 1,290 structural components, battery enclosures, and other safety parts and extrusions. This business unit also manufactures a 1,123 125 wide range of hard and soft alloy extrusions, as well as large 120 proﬁles for road and rail transportation, energy, and other 106 industrial applications. EXTRUDED AUTOMOTIVE PRODUCTS COMPONENTS 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 * Adjusted EBITDA is a “Non-GAAP measure.” For a reconciliation of this measure to “Net Income,” see the 20-F form. Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019 17 SHARED VALUE Governance Director independence We maintain a one-tier Board of Directors consisting Board meetings in 2019 of an Executive Director and Non-Executive Directors The Board of Directors held six meetings and (each a “Director”). ­reviewed a number of matters, including: commitUnder French law, there are no separate indepentee reports; reports from the CEO (including envidence requirements for French companies whose ronmental, health & safety, markets and compeshares are not listed on an EU-regulated market, so tition) and from the CFO and the Group’s General we defer to the NYSE requirements. As a foreign priCounsel; conversion and relocation of the Group’s vate issuer under the NYSE rules, we are not ­required corporate headquarters; review and approval in to have independent Directors on our Board, except 2019 of the 2018 Annual Accounts and Form 20-F to the extent that our audit committee is ­required to filing with the SEC; approval of the agenda items for consist of independent Directors. the General Meetings of shareholders; approval of However, our Board has determined that, under ­executive r­ emuneration and remuneration policy current NYSE listing standards regarding indepenfor Non-Executive Directors; reports from business dence, and taking into account any applicable comunits; review of Company strategy and strategic mittee standards, as of December 31, 2019, Messrs. ­opportunities; R&D review; review of the sustainabilEvans, Brandjes, Guillemot*, Hartman, Maugis, ity program; review of 2020 budget; finance reports; Ormerod, Paschke, and Mmes. Walker, Brooks, and presentation on investor perception, and Board and Frachet are deemed independent Directors. Under Directors’ third-party evaluation results. these standards, Mr. Germain is not deemed independent as he serves as the CEO of the Company. OUR COMMITTEES ** Audit Committee Human Resources Nominating Governance Environment, Health, Held eight meetings and Remuneration Committee and Safety Committee and consisted of four Committee Held four meetings Held two meetings Directors: Held four meetings and consisted of four and consisted of three • Lori A. Walker (Chair) and consisted of four Directors: Directors: • Martha Brooks Directors: • Richard B. Evans (Chair) • Guy Maugis (Chair) • John Ormerod • Martha Brooks (Chair) • Michiel Brandjes • Michiel Brandjes • Werner P. Paschke • Richard B. Evans • John Ormerod • Peter F. Hartman • Peter F. Hartman • Lori A. Walker • Guy Maugis * Resigned as of December 13, 2019 ** As of December 31, 2019 18 Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019 Policies CODE OF CONDUCT TRAINING 97.1% achieved* 95% 99.8% 100% achieved 1,753 1,703 Code of Conduct 99.3% achieved achieved achieved 1,554 1,477 Our worldwide Code of Employee and Business 1,301 1,298 1,362 1,362 1,144 1,136 Conduct sets out the standard of behavior we expect from our employees. The Code governs the way Constellium acts in business. It was refreshed in 2019, reinforcing the standard of anti-corruption and Human Rights and Labor Practices. It concerns all Constellium employees, subject to applicable 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 local law. Compliance with the Code is essential to preserving and enhancing the Company’s reputation Number of people targeted Number of people trained as a responsible corporate citizen and, ultimately, to maximizing stakeholder value. For suppliers, we opportunity to work together for continuous im* In 2019 we had 50 exceptional have developed a specific Code of Conduct. provement. All our suppliers are asked to sign our cases, for reasons Supplier Code of Conduct. including maternity and sick Supplier Code of Conduct leave, retirement, Our dedicated Responsible Supply Chain ManageWhistleblower policy and long-term disability. ment Policy and Supplier Code of Conduct, aligned Our whistleblower policy fosters an environment with UNGC principles, applies to Constellium’s supwhere our employees can act without fear of retalpliers, subsidiaries, consultants, contractors, and iation and report to an official any wrongdoing or affiliates. It relies on commitment, assessment, and suspected wrongdoing; corruption; or irregularity progress. in finance, accounting, or banking that concerns We ask key suppliers to perform a desktop-based Constellium. To facilitate this reporting, we have esassessment every three years using the EcoVadis tablished an external hotline in all the countries in platform, and we perform an onsite workplace which we have operations, and in various languages. audit every three years for locations or sectors at greater risk. We organize webinars to train our Insider Trading policy suppliers, and provide training to our procurement We have an Insider Trading policy which sets out the teams to ensure the assessment is well implerestrictions on trading in Constellium securities and mented. We consider supplier assessment as an the use of inside information. Sustainability Council The Sustainability Council is a formal body whose aluminium value chain, as well as on the definition members are responsible for guiding Constellium of a GHG emissions reduction target for scope 1 towards our 2020 sustainability goals. The Council has and 2. A presentation was made to the Board in a cross-functional role and meets three to four times a December 2019. year. The sustainability team liaises with the Executive Committee throughout the year through an Executive Communication and Training Committee member: the Senior Vice President, Public In 2019, we launched a new e-learning training Affairs, Communication, and Sustainability. module on sustainability. We continued our ongoing This year, through four dedicated sessions, the face-to-face training sessions with our sales and Sustainability Council delivered presentations to the purchasing teams. Sustainability was also a key Executive Committee on human rights risks in the focus of our new employee onboarding program. Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019 19 SHARED VALUE Board of Directors The Board of Directors is collectively responsible for the management of the Company, the general conduct of the Company’s business, and its corporate governance structure. The Non-Executive Directors supervise and provide guidance to the Executive Director, who is entrusted with the day-to-day management of the Company. Richard B. Evans Jean-Marc Germain Michiel Brandjes Martha Brooks Chairman Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Chairman of our Board Executive Director of our Board Member of our Board of Member of our Board of since December 2012 and of Directors since June 2016 Directors since June 2014 Directors since June 2016 a member of our Board of and Chief Executive Officer Directors since January 2011 since July 2016 Stéphanie Frachet Philippe Guillemot* Peter F. Hartman Guy Maugis Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Member of our Board of Member of our Board of Member of our Board of Member of our Board Directors since May 2018 Directors since May 2013 Directors since June 2014 of Directors since January 2011 John Ormerod Werner P. Paschke Lori A. Walker Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Member of our Board Member of our Board Member of our Board of Directors since June 2014 of Directors since May 2013 of Directors since June 2014 * Resigned as of December 13, 2019 20 Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019 Executive Committee The Executive Committee focuses on strategy, financial management, commercial development, program execution, organizational evolution, and Group-wide policies. Together, they have close to 200 years of experience in the aluminium industry. Jean-Marc Germain Peter R. Matt Chief Executive Officer Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Peter Basten Nicolas Brun Jack Clark Ingrid Joerg President, Packaging and Senior Vice President, Public Senior Vice President, President, Aerospace and Automotive Rolled Products Affairs, Communications, Manufacturing Excellence Transportation business unit business unit and Sustainability and Chief Technical Officer Ryan Jurkovic Jeremy Leach Vittorio Rossetti Paul Warton Senior Vice President and Senior Vice President and Vice President and President, Automotive Chief Human Resources Officer Group General Counsel Chief Information Officer Structures and Industry business unit Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019 21 SHARED VALUE Manufacturing Excellence Making the most of our manufacturing assets “Manufacturing Excellence means producing our goods in the safest and most efficient way, on time, and to the most stringent quality standards.” EHS first We strive to achieve this by investing in bility and quality of sheet production for Safety is the first priority for Constellium asset integrity, and through continuous end markets such as truck trailers and and the primary objective of our Manuimprovements in our operations, such as pleasure boats. At Singen, we replaced facturing Excellence program. debottlenecking and optimizing equipthe automation system of the hot line (See page 24.) ment uptime, recovery, and mill speed. to stabilize the production process, imWe consider our facilities to be one inteprove quality, and maximize productiviHarvesting our past investments grated industrial platform, and constantty. These upgrades are crucial to reliably We have made strong investments in our ly review our product portfolio to optimize manufacture our products to the highest industrial platform to build our future our asset utilization. Our Manufacturing quality and at the lowest possible cost. growth. Our Manufacturing Excellence Excellence team works with our plants program ensures that we fully realize the and R&D centers towards this goal. Selectively adding capacity benefits of these investments by optimizRegular maintenance is essential to We continue to expand our manufacing our strong manufacturing platform of ensure the level of quality and reliabilturing capabilities with selected growth more than 25 plants with unique producity that our customers require, and we projects, based on customer contracts tion capabilities. implement capital upgrades whenever and market needs. For example, we have We are highly focused on maximizing the necessary. For example, we installed been successfully expanding our autothroughput of our facilities to increase the a new coiler on the hot finishing line at motive capacities at some of our plants tons and profitability per machine hour. our Ravenswood plant to improve reliaand have opened new locations. 22 Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019 GETTING A BOOST FROM INDUSTRY 4.0 Constellium is taking advantage of new technologies to improve the way we operate. For example, a new C-TEC pilot project uses artificial intelligence for worker safety at our manufacturing sites, reducing the inherent risk associated with mobile equipment. AI can detect when forklifts are in the vicinity of pedestrians, warning both parties before a potentially dangerous situation occurs. We are also digitizing industrialization of Airware® to optimize production in real time and identify key process parameter interactions. Digital technology allows us to minimize the occurrence of defects and the need for systematic inspections. • We have increased our Auto Body Sheet capacity by 200kt thanks to the successful ramp-up of new CALP lines at Bowling Green and Neuf-Brisach. • Production of automotive structures has started at our new plants in Žilina, Slovakia and Vigo, Spain. • New extrusion presses at Děčín, Levice, and Singen serve the needs of our automotive structures plants in Europe. Děčín’s press is now operating, while Singen's and Levice’s presses are slated to start running by mid-2020. Preserving cash Manufacturing Excellence is also about A NETWORK FOR THE ROLLING COMMUNITY increasing the recovery of our products, Reestablished in 2019, the network comprises process and quality reducing our input costs, optimizing inengineers, lubrication engineers, APU managers, and rolling/ ventory, and improving energy usage. lubrication specialists from C-TEC—all dedicated to sharing expertise Manufacturing Excellence was a major and best practices. Alongside the online community, the network contributor to our “Project 2019” cash brought together more than 20 engineers for a week of tours and seminars at our U.S. facilities in Ravenswood, West Virginia and improvement initiative. Muscle Shoals, Alabama. • At Issoire, a cross-functional team (including members from process, quality, production, commercial, supply chain, and finance) has developed a better plate recovery process, leading to savings of €7 million over two years. • Ravenswood has decreased its inventory by €15 million thanks to disciplined inventory management. This includes daily meetings to review inventory levels, as well as shop floor inventory walks. Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019 23 SHARED VALUE Environment, Health, & Safety Interview with Jack Clark, Senior Vice President, Manufacturing Excellence and Chief Technical Officer “Our first priority How do you consider your 2019 How were Constellium’s safety performance? environmental results in 2019? remains safety. I am proud to report that our safety reOn environment, we further reinforced We will continue cord has improved significantly over the our reporting system to increase attenpast three years. Our recordable injuries tion on near miss incidents*. While we the implementation rate has decreased from 3.31 in 2016 to have not had a significant environmental of our SIF (Serious 2.40 in 2019—well below our target of incident at any of our sites in years, we 2.61 in 2019. This means that more of continue to increase surveillance and Injury and Fatality) our colleagues are returning home injumonitor risks. program and ry-free, day after day. We remain on track Waste management and energy effito reduce our recordable case rate by ciency remain two key areas of focus will engage our 10% year after year. for the EHS team to reach our 2020 tarleadership and our This achievement is clearly attributable gets, and we have made good progress to the continued implementation of our in 2019 in reducing waste to landfill and workforce on the global Serious Injury and Fatality (SIF) energy consumption. shop floor to address program. In 2019, we conducted a second round of audits and coaching to make What are your priorities safety risks.” sure we continue to address situations for 2020? that present the greatest safety risks. Our first priority remains safety. We will Jack Clark However, we cannot be satisfied with continue the implementation of our SIF Senior Vice President, these results as we tragically lost one of program and will engage our leadership Manufacturing Excellence our colleagues in a workplace incident in and our workforce on the shop floor to and Chief Technical Officer 2019. We must focus more on the hows address safety risks and ensure compliand whys of unsafe practices, and enance with our safety “Golden Rules.” But courage employees to speak up when success in safety also depends on indithey witness risky behavior. vidual behaviors and actions. This is why in 2020 we will be rolling out a new global campaign and training program, “See Something, Say Something.” It is critical that we help employees recognize safety-related issues of all types and speak up when they do. On the environmental side, we will continue to work on improving our risk assessment and reporting. Our focus will also be on improving our performance in energy consumption and reducing landfilled waste. EHS workshop in Issoire, France * A near miss incident is an unplanned event that had no negative impact on the environment. 24 Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019 This report covers 2019 business and sustainability achievements and was developed before the 2020 Covid-19 crisis. Content, including business and market updates, EHS and sustainability policies and related action plans, does not take into account the impact and consequences of this pandemic on our business. Business value Our customers are the best at what they do, and they expect the best from us. We shine in vastly diverse markets, from screw caps to braking systems. Our long-term relationships with the world’s top manufacturers reflect the quality of our advanced products and customized services, our skilled workers, our cutting-edge research centers, and our 28 manufacturing sites. Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019 25 BUSINESS VALUE Business Highlights Getting smarter with Industry 4.0 The Smart Process Lab, created by Constellium Valais and the local Haute Ecole d’Ingénierie to improve manufacturing through digitalization, launched its first two R&D projects in 2019. The “Unique Stability Plates” project uses AI to study aluminium plate production data, optimize processes, and fine-tune product quality. The second project aims to develop a new type Blue Origin story of intelligent sensor, which will be installed on overhead cranes and improve logistics Reinforcing our position as a trusted partner in the by creating digital models of stock. In the future, space industry, Constellium signed a multi-year the lab will also focus on ways to save contract to support the launch vehicle programs energy during production. of Blue Origin, the privately-funded American aerospace manufacturer and spaceflight services company. A new milestone in our collaboration with Blue Origin, the agreement states that Constellium will supply the company’s massive orbital rocket, New Glenn, with Airware® advanced aluminium Groupe PSA: plates and sheets from our plants in Issoire, France partners old and new and Ravenswood, West Virginia. Two important events in 2019 marked Constellium’s 20-plus-year partnership with French auto manufacturer Groupe PSA. In May, it was announced that Constellium would supply aluminium Auto Body Sheet for the new models of the PEUGEOT Partner, Citroën Berlingo van, Citroën Berlingo, and PEUGEOT Rifter vans. (This would also represent Groupe PSA’s first use of aluminium Auto Body Sheet for light commercial vehicles.) In June, Constellium received the Groupe PSA 2019 Supplier Award in the “Corporate Social Responsibility” category. The award was further recognition of our deep and multifaceted commitment to sustainability, including our responsible supply chain policies and energy efficiency program. 26 Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019 One million-plus hours of safety In China, we demonstrated that good EHS practices can make an enormous difference in safety. In 2018, our Changchun plant had a recordable case Engineering a pipeline rate significantly higher than the target. An audit established that the plant lacked consistent safety of talent practices and did not make safety a priority, so we Manufacturing Excellence does not rely solely created an EHS improvement team focused on on new technologies, processes, and assets. It implementing the SIF program. Changchun has since receives support from our deep pool of talented and exceeded 1 million work hours without lost time or a experienced engineers. We launched Constellium’s recordable injury, and received awards from the local Global Engineering Development Program in 2019 Economic Development Zone and the Jilin province for to build a pipeline of engineers that will sustain its progressive approach to business, including a safe Constellium's leadership position for decades to work environment. come. Currently, 50 young engineers from Europe and the U.S. are participating in an 18-month project-based course of study, the first of this annual program. Factory for the future We cut the ribbon on a brand new automotive structures facility in Žilina, Slovakia, producing aluminium Crash Management Systems and body structure components for the European market. The plant features advanced technologies for forming, machining, welding, and heat treatment, along with a state-of-the-art quality lab to ensure each customer's specifications are met. Making the list In 2019, Constellium made its debut appearance on the annual list of the 100 Top Suppliers compiled by Automotive News, the publication of reference for the auto industry. This confirms our position as a global leader in aluminium automotive solutions, supplying a broad portfolio to the world’s top automakers and maintaining close partnerships with our customers. Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019 27 BUSINESS VALUE Packaging Constellium is a world-leading integrated supplier for the aluminium packaging market, a bedrock of our portfolio. We tailor our solutions to a broad range of products: beverage cans, food cans, wine and spirits closures, flexible packaging, hair and body care aerosols, color cosmetics, and luxury packaging for the perfume industry. Consumers love cans sustainability trend, demand for can In Europe and North America, a growing sheet continues to grow, as aluminium customer preference for aluminium cans replaces steel in Europe. In the U.S., we is evidenced by an expanding number expect the growing demand for Auto Body of new product launches, as well as Sheet to tighten supply to the packaging increased investment in new can lines. market over the medium to long term. According to CRU, between 2019 and In addition, the aluminium can is the 2024, annual demand for aluminium packaging of choice for growing niche for the canstock market is expected to markets such as sparkling water, energy grow by 2.7% in Europe and 2% in North drinks, and craft beers. America. An increased focus on sustainability Billions reborn continues to boost the demand for We are an industry leader in the aluminium cans as the eco-responsible recycling of aluminium beverage cans. alternative to plastics in beverage Each year we recycle the equivalent of packaging. This trend is reinforced by 12 billion beverage cans at our Neufregulations such as a European ban Brisach plant, and we have the capacity to on certain single-use plastics, which recycle 20 billion beverage cans at our will come into effect by 2021. Many Muscle Shoals site in Alabama. companies have also announced a reduction in plastic packaging and single-use plastics. In addition to the ALUMINIUM CAN(S) LIVE FOREVER Aluminium cans are infinitely recyclable. They can be recycled over and over again in a true “closed loop” recycling process. Plastic, on the other hand, is typically “downcycled” into products such as carpet fiber or landfill liner. Packaging made from aluminium is highly valuable, and aluminium cans are the most recycled beverage container. Cans recycle well into cans, with much more closed loop recycling than plastic. Because aluminium is lightweight, and beverage and food cans can be efficiently packed without requiring much space, the carbon emissions related to the transportation and logistics of these items are lower than for packaging made from plastic or glass. 28 Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019 A G LO B A L L E A D E R I N PAC K AG I N G Market trends The Constellium Advantage • We address every facet of the market, from aluminium coils and TOTAL EUROPEAN ROLLED PRODUCTS sheets to recycling Consumption Can Stock (kt) • We have the capacity to recycle the equivalent of 32 billion cans at our facilities in Muscle Shoals, Alabama and Neuf-Brisach, CAGR +2.7% France 1,200 800 37 % 400 0 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 of our 2019 revenue came from the packaging market Source: CRU International Ltd., Aluminium Products Market Outlook November 2019. Eastern Europe Western Europe TOTAL NORTH AMERICAN ROLLED PRODUCTS BEAUTY BOXES Consumption Can Stock (kt) The cosmetics market is a niche market with high growth CAGR +2.0% potential. As the market for luxury products continues to develop, so do customer requests for recyclable 2,000 and sustainable packaging materials. Decades of experience and close collaboration with leading cosmetics companies have given us the 1,500 skills to achieve the polish and elegance that cosmetics companies require for their packaging. Our rolling mill in Singen is renowned for 1,000 producing highly specialized aluminium surfaces which are unique to the cosmetics industry. 500 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 SOME OF OUR CUSTOMERS Source: CRU International Ltd., Aluminium Rolled Products Market Outlook November 2019. AB InBev, Ardagh Group, Ball, Can-Pack, Crown, Coca-Cola, Mexico and Canada United States Moravia Cans Our packaging plants WORLD-CLASS CAPABILITIES Muscle Shoals, Neuf-Brisach, France: Singen, Germany: Alabama: One of our Key positions in Supplies closure stock to largest sites, with the beverage canstock a global customer base widest strip mill in (body, end, and tab) and the U.S. and a world food canstock in Europe, class beverage can along with a world-class recycling center recycling center Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019 29 BUSINESS VALUE Aerospace Today’s aircraft must combine high performance, reduced environmental impact, and low operating costs. Constellium helps aerospace manufacturers maintain cruising speed with value-added aluminium plates, sheets, extrusions, and precision castings for the commercial, military, and space markets. A buoyant sector Nose to tail solutions We see sustained build rates of aircraft Constellium is a major partner of the resulting from a steady increase in traffic world’s top aircraft manufacturers, and the replacement of aging fleets. developing and manufacturing materials Backlogs remain high, and demand for for all key structural applications, aluminium for the North American and including fuselage and wing skins, European aerospace rolled products doublers, stiffeners, window frames, market is expected to grow by 3.3% per bulkheads, floor structures, seat tracks, year between 2019 and 2024 (CRU data). doors, and various engine component parts. Our groundbreaking Airware ® solution makes us the undisputed leader in aluminium-lithium technology. Turning scrap into supply During a typical manufacturing process, 90% of the metal may be removed as scrap. Constellium offers pre-machined parts so that our customers generate less scrap and save on material costs. We recycle the off-cuts and chips generated by pre-machining directly in our plants, then return the metal to the production process without any loss of properties. AIRWARE® SOARS ABOVE THE REST Airware® is our range of ultra-high performance aluminium-lithium alloys, and the market leader for aerospace structures. Featuring low density, high stiffness, and exceptional damage tolerance, Airware® propels aircraft and spacecraft to exciting new heights. Airware® 2065 was developed for extruded products such as cargo beams. Due to their low density, high strength, and excellent corrosion resistance, Airware® 2065 extrusions are ideal for stiffeners in compression-driven structures such as upper wing stringers. Airware® 2198 combines high damage tolerance, high static properties, and outstanding fatigue resistance. Its superior resistance to exfoliation and stress corrosion even makes it suitable for use as bare material. Available in thin gauges, Airware® 2198 is the optimal choice for fuselage sheets and other inner structures. Issoire Airware® casthouse 30 Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019 A G LO B A L L E A D E R I N A E R O S PAC E Market trends The Constellium Advantage • A diversified portfolio of blue chip customers AEROSPACE FLAT ROLLED PRODUCTS • Sole producer of many advanced proprietary alloys and Consumption (kt) technologies, including Airware® • Major provider of supply chain integration, including pre-machining CAGR services and closed loop recycling +3.3% 400 15 300 200 100 % of our 2019 revenue came 0 from the aerospace market 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 Source: CRU International Ltd., Aluminium Products Market Outlook November 2019. Europe, U.S. & Canada FLEET DEVELOPMENT DRIVEN BY PASSENGER SUPPLIER TO THE SKIES DEMAND AND AGING FLEET (UNITS) In early 2020, Airbus recognized Constellium with the 50,660 “Best Performer Award” at its annual Supply Chain and Quality Improvement Program ceremony in France. As a decades-long partner, Constellium supplies Airbus with advanced 24,830 Growth (56%) aerospace alloys from our facilities in Issoire and Montreuil-Juigné, in 25,830 France, and Ravenswood, in the United States. We have deepened our collaboration in recent years, working together to improve supply chain efficiency, recycling, and inventory reduction throughout the value chain. 19,210 Replacement (44%) 6,620 Retained SOME OF OUR CUSTOMERS 2018 2038 Airbus, Blue Origin, Boeing, Bombardier, Dassault Aviation, Embraer, Source: Boeing 2019 current market outlook Lockheed Martin, NASA, Pilatus, Pratt & Whitney, Safran, SpaceX Our aerospace plants AN INTEGRATED PLATFORM Issoire, France: Ravenswood, West Valais, Switzerland: One of the world’s Virginia: One of Two casthouses and top two aerospace the most powerful plate and extrusion plate mills, with a stretchers and largest shops casthouse producing cold rolling mills in Airware® the world C-TEC, France R&D center with an Ussel, France: One Montreuil-Juigné, Airware® casting unit of the sole providers France: Hard of sand casting alloy extrusions for aerospace for aerospace components applications Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019 31 BUSINESS VALUE Automotive We are a unique partner to automakers, with a wide-ranging offer: material science, component prototyping and production, simulation and testing, and product development. Constellium aluminium drives We are well positioned to take advantage advanced mobility of these market trends. Our automotive We supply most major automakers, from products are used predominantly in mainstream market leaders to new EV premium models, light trucks, and sport entrants. Our products can be found in utility vehicles manufactured by European some of the most iconic vehicles on the and North American OEMs, which have road today: BMW X5, Ford F-150 and experienced strong customer demand. Super Duty, Mercedes-Benz A-Class, Moreover, due to increasing mandatory PEUGEOT Partner, and more. emission reduction targets, we expect more conversion to aluminium solutions among Aluminium will remain alluring high volume car platforms. As automakers seek to lightweight vehicles and the demand for electric Our offer goes far and wide vehicles continues to rise, the automotive We are a longstanding and preferred industry is expected to remain a secular partner for automakers, enabling them growth market for aluminium in North to engineer lighter, stronger, and safer America and Europe. vehicles for higher performance, lower According to DuckerFrontier, aluminium emissions, better fuel economy, and greater content in cars is also likely to keep range. Our unique portfolio of advanced increasing, particularly in closures and aluminium rolled products and extrusionbattery enclosures. CRU predicts that based structural components responds Auto Body Sheet consumption will grow to customers’ needs for lightweighting, by 9% per year between 2019 and 2024 strength, formability, crash performance, in Europe and North America. thermal management, and design. ALUMINIUM IN ELECTRIC VEHICLES Battery Enclosure assemblies safeguard the batteries in electric and hybrid vehicles, helping them to resist crashes and intrusion. They also cool individual modules using innovative materials, design, and joining technologies. Crash Management Systems for electric cars are typically larger and stronger than those used for internal combustion vehicles. Aluminium remains the preferred material for its energy absorption qualities. Lightweighting is critical to increase range in electric vehicles. It also decreases costs, as a lighter car needs less battery power to drive the same distance. Plug-in hybrid and full battery electric vehicles use ~25% more aluminium than the typical internal combustion engine car today, according to CRU. 32 Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019 A GLOBAL LEADER IN AUTOMOTIVE Market trends The Constellium Advantage • Top 100 Global Automotive Supplier (Source: Automotive News 2019) AUTOMOTIVE BODY SHEET FLAT ROLLED PRODUCTS • Wide portfolio of alloys and solutions for car body closures and body Consumption (kt) structures, Crash Management Systems and battery enclosures, heat exchangers, and interior trim CAGR +10.7% 27 2,000 1,000 % of our 2019 revenue came from the automotive market 0 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 North America Europe China RoW Source: CRU International Ltd., Aluminium Products Market Outlook November 2019. GEARING UP FOR ALUMINIUM Constellium partnered with North American ALUMINIUM COMPONENT WEIGHT CHANGES 2015-2020 automakers on the development of a breakthrough Aluminium net increase: 69 Ibs new solution for the transmission market, to improve Weight Change (Ibs.) performance, adapt to demanding driving conditions, and allow for -20 -10 0 10 20 30 40 better fuel efficiency. Our aluminium plates, such as our 5000-series Closure Sheet alloys, reduce the weight of large components while providing Body Sheet superior corrosion resistance for undercarriage applications as well Body & Vacuum Die Castings as high fatigue resistance to vibration. Body & Bumper Extrusions Chassis & Suspension SOME OF OUR CUSTOMERS Wheels, Steering & Brakes Engine & Transmission Audi, BMW Group, Daimler, Fiat Chrysler Automobiles, Ford, General Source: Ducker Worldwide study Motors, Honda, Porsche, Groupe PSA, Subaru, Toyota, Volkswagen Our automotive plants EXPANDING OUR CAPABILITIES AND OUR FOOTPRINT 2  0+ sites globally A Global Auto Body A global network of serving the Sheet capacity of automotive structures automotive market 300kt between our plants located close plants in Bowling to our customers and Green, Kentucky; supplied by extrusion Neuf-Brisach, France; plants in Europe and and Singen, Germany North America Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019 33 BUSINESS VALUE Industry, Transportation, & Defense We target high value-added applications with rolled and extruded products for the transportation and industry markets, as well as solutions for the defense market. We are growing and entering new segments of these markets with our large portfolio of alloys. Our unique capability to produce thick plates, wide coils, low-residual stress products, and large-profile products gives us a distinct advantage over the competition. INDUSTRY Aluminium features superior machina• We continued to develop Alplan®, whose bility, weldability, formability, and thermal superior stability and best-in-class flatand electrical conductivity, and is ideal ness provides up to 50% improvement in for industrial applications. Our aluminium machining cycle time and 33% material sheets, plates, bars, extrusions, and prosavings, for considerable cost reductions. files can be used for anything from light • Alumold® is a preferred alternative to fittings to semiconductor equipment. Consteel molds, reducing overall costs and stellium’s extensive experience in semiconoffering significant productivity gains. ductor and flat panel display equipment, combined with our world-class manufacSOME OF OUR CUSTOMERS turing capabilities, makes us the ideal partner for manufacturers, both for functional Air Torque, Bosch, Draeger, Festo, Metso, parts (e.g., vacuum process and transfer Siemens, ThyssenKrupp Rods at Děčín, Czech Republic chambers, vacuum valves and pumps, load locks) and consumable parts (e.g., showerheads and diffusers). 2019 highlights: • We remained the European leader in the hard alloy extrusion business, with Děčín the largest extrusion plant in Europe. • We remained the European leader in large profiles, with three large extrusion presses in Sierre, Switzerland and Singen, Germany. Extrusion at Singen, Germany Alplan® rolled and ready to mill aluminium plates 34 Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019 A G L O B A L L E A D E R I N I N D U S T R Y, T R A N S P O R TAT I O N , A N D D E F E N S E 21 % of our 2019 revenue came from other specialties, mostly from the industry, transportation, and defense markets TRANSPORTATION Aluminium alloys can be processed in continued to strengthen and expand our numerous ways to achieve unique combirelationships with customers. nations of strength, stiffness, formability, • We remained the market leader in rail durability, and corrosion resistance. We solutions, covering the complete range have built upon the intrinsic properties of rolling stock material with our large of aluminium alloys to develop a range extrusion product portfolio. of dedicated extrusions, sheets, plates, precision sand castings, and semi-finSOME OF OUR CUSTOMERS ished components for equipment parts within the transportation industry, such Brunswick Corporation, CAF, Gillig, Hitachi as tanker trucks, trailers, pleasure boats, Rail, Koegel, Krone, Schmitz, Stadler, White trains, and trams. River Marine Group 2019 highlights: • We became the leading aluminium supplier to the pleasure boat market, and DEFENSE For decades, we have partnered with dewill enable us to meet the increased defense companies worldwide to develop mand for cold rolled plate over the next new materials solutions for military airfive to 10 years, and significantly improve craft, navy, and military land vehicles. We the performance of armor against conare working with the leading military land stantly evolving threats. vehicle manufacturers to propose a glob• We entered into new partnerships with al offering of specialized alloys for armor customers and extended our offer to serapplications. vices such as pre-machining kits. 2019 highlights: SOME OF OUR CUSTOMERS • Our facility in Ravenswood was selected by the U.S. Department of Defense for a BAE Systems, Dassault Aviation, FNSS, grant of nearly $9.5 million to increase General Dynamics, GKN, John Cockrill, throughput, quality, and performance of KMW, Lockheed Martin, MBDA, Nexter cold rolled aluminium. This investment Systems, Northrop Grumman, Sikorsky Constellium’s facility in Ravenswood, West Virginia Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019 35 This report covers 2019 business and sustainability achievements and was developed before the 2020 Covid-19 crisis. Content, including business and market updates, EHS and sustainability policies and related action plans, does not take into account the impact and consequences of this pandemic on our business. Sustainable value At Constellium, we think and act for the long term. Our first priority is people: we commit to the safety of every single worker, support local communities, and collaborate closely with customers and suppliers. As we seek to minimize our impact on the planet, we are proud to work with aluminium, a sustainable and infinitely recyclable material. Through training and communication, we motivate our employees to aim for excellence that endures. 36 Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019 S U S TA I N A B L E VALUE Our Sustainability Targets for 2020 By regularly analyzing our progress, we can identify the most critical areas we need to address, focus our efforts to achieve our 2020 targets, and define our objectives for the years to come. PRODUCTS PEOPLE OPERATIONS RESPONSIBLE We will enhance the We will ensure our people We will minimize BUSINESS environmental benefits of are safe, skilled, motivated, the impact We will manage our our products and improve and engaged of our operations business in an ethical customer satisfaction and responsible way BOOST FURTHER IMPROVE REDUCE BUILD A STANDARD BEVERAGE OUR SAFETY PRODUCTION WASTE FOR ALUMINIUM CAN RECYCLING RECORD SENT TO LANDFILL • 80% beverage can recycling • Reduce our Recordable • Reduce production waste • Have at least one rate in Europe Case Rate* every year going to landfill by 10% site Aluminium by 10% (vs. 2015) Stewardship Initiative (ASI) certified • Work with the industry and with our stakeholders • No more than four to increase the beverage serious injuries IMPROVE ENERGY can recycling rate a year** ENSURE EFFICIENCY SUSTAINABLE in the U.S. PURCHASING • Be in the industry’s top • 10% energy efficiency quartile for safety improvement by 2020 • Evaluate the sustainability INCREASE results (vs. 2015) performance of all key CUSTOMER suppliers SATISFACTION • Conduct a customer ENGAGE OUR • Undertake onsite satisfaction survey PEOPLE sustainability audits every two years for all of suppliers working in business units • Six-point increase in locations and sectors overall employee with greater risk of satisfaction from divergent practices a 2014 baseline • Ensure that all suppliers sign on to our Code STRENGTHEN OUR of Conduct * Recordable Case Rate measures COMMUNITIES the number of fatalities, serious injuries, lost-time injuries, restricted work injuries, or medical treatments • At least one community per one million hours worked. activity per site ** We had seven serious injuries. every year We consider this a setback after our 2018 result. Target achieved Significant progress made; on track to achieve the target More effort required to achieve the target Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019 37 S U S TA I N A B L E VALUE Sustainability Highlights Constellium Compliance Constellium’s non-financial performance statement (déclaration de performance extra-financière), which informs stakeholders of our social, environmental, and societal actions, received its first audit from an independent third party, PwC. The audit verified our compliance with the provisions of the French Commercial Code (article R. 225-105), along with the accuracy of the information provided, such as key performance indicators and measures taken to address risks (article R. 225-105 I, 3, and II)(1). Training to be Flexing those sustainable recycling muscles Training employees Our plant in Muscle Shoals signed a contract with a about sustainability gives waste management company, Waste Connections, to them the tools to make a reduce our waste destined for landfill, such as plastic, real difference. In 2019, pallets, and sludge oils, by recycling or reusing it Constellium launched Training the purchasing team in Děčín, Czech Republic, outside our facilities. Aiming to inspire a culture a new e-learning module about sustainability. of recycling among its employees, Muscle Shoals on the subject, as part of launched the communication campaign “A better our onboarding process for new hires (and tomorrow starts with you,” which includes contests available to all employees). Our internal and and video messages displayed around the plant. The external communication departments have site has also installed easily identifiable recycling fully integrated our sustainability challenges, bins and is training its new hires and supervisors to goals, and achievements, and they also ensure the proper segregation of waste. encourage our employees to engage and help us reach our targets. Our aluminium video is gold On June 5, 2019—World Environment Day—we released a video called “Born to Recycle”, with an original “slam”-style soundtrack in three different languages (French, English, and German). The video urges consumers to recycle aluminium products that have reached the end of their useful lives, since aluminium can be endlessly recycled for 95% less energy than transforming primary metal. Less than two weeks after its release, the film won a gold trophy in the “Fight and Adaptation to Climate Change” category at the Deauville Green Award Festival, an international film festival dedicated to social responsibility and eco-innovation. The following September, it took home a Gold Dolphin from the Cannes Corporate Media & TV Awards. (1) PwC is not responsible for assuring our compliance, nor that of our products and services, with other applicable legal and regulatory provisions. In this report, we have specified the data reviewed by PwC as part of the non-financial performance statement. The data reviewed by PwC in the graphics and tables in this report are identified with the blue check mark shown on this page 38 Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019 Recycling in America November 15 is “America Recycles Day”, and in 2019, our U.S. sites participated enthusiastically with a range of activities. Our Muscle Shoals plant in Alabama taught employees about sorting, recycling, and related fun facts, then held a trivia contest. In West Virginia, our Ravenswood site hosted a Community Cleanup Day, facilitating recycling in the local community by inviting people to deposit their used items, such as electronics and cardboard boxes. Meanwhile, our Bowling Green, Kentucky, plant increased recycling awareness among its employees with an internal information campaign featuring videos, newsletters, and a crossword puzzle challenge. Ravenswood's Recycling Team on America Recycles Day Singen’s stamp of approval In 2019, the casting and rolling operations at our plant in Singen, Germany, were certified by the Aluminium Stewardship Initiative (ASI), making Singen the first Constellium plant able to supply customers with independently C-TEC Cycles certified, responsibly sourced, and sustainably When it comes to sustainability, our researchers and manufactured aluminium solutions. It is certified engineers are pedaling in high gear. In France, where our against ASI’s Performance Standard (for C-TEC Technology Center is located, the Auvergne-Rhôneoperating according to a strict set of governance, Alpes region’s “Challenge Mobilité” recognizes efforts by environmental, and social standards) and the companies and their employees to use clean, safe, and Chain of Custody Standard (for the traceability of economical modes of transportation for commuting to work. recycled and primary metal transferred from one In 2019, the region awarded C-TEC with a Coup de Cœur for step to another in the value chain). avoiding 1,481 km of automobile transportation in a single day. Throughout the year, C-TEC encourages its employees to regularly ride their bicycles to work by offering safety kits and free maintenance. Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019 39 S U S TA I N A B L E VALUE Using Materiality Assessments to Build Action Plans At Constellium, we make every effort to meet our rigorous sustainability targets. We regularly measure our progress and communicate our data with precision and transparency. We survey our stakeholders about their priorities, then construct action plans in response. Aligning our targets with Identifying risks and “Risk assessment the UN SDGs opportunities through Constellium is a member of European Materiality Assessments is integral to Aluminium, an association of more Every year, we track Constellium’s susany company's than 80 companies and organizations tainability performance and provide representing the entire aluminium accurate, transparent disclosure of our short-, medium-, v a l u e c h a i n . I n 2 0 18 , E u r o p e a n data. Since 2014, we have performed and long-term Aluminium aligned its Sustainability regular Materiality Assessments, in R o a d m a p To w a r d s 2 025 w i t h t h e order to pinpoint the topics that matter strategy. Today, UN Sustainable Development Goals most to our stakeholders. By surveying identifying (SDGs), a barometer for sustainability. internal stakeholders (top managers European Aluminium worked with an and other employees) and ex ternal sustainability external consultant, CSR Europe, to stakeholders (investors, suppliers, and risks is almost define targets and actions for 2025 customers) from different countries, and beyond. we are able to coordinate our sustainaself-preservation, bility efforts with their priorities. as they can Their findings determined that our industr y can ma ximize its positive As par t of our 2019 Materialit y Asdirectly impact impact and business opportunities by sessment, we conducted a sustainthe finances of a focusing on eight SDGs in particular: ability risk analysis involving our top education, gender equality, affordable managers, under the guidance of inbusiness.” clean energy, decent work, industry dependent third-par ty firm Ernst & Sofia Rodrigues and innovation, responsible producYoung Global Limited. The analysis Senior internal auditor tion and consumption, climate action, identified the risks affecting Constelat Constellium Paris and partnerships. Constellium subselium’s activities and the aluminium quently aligned our own targets with value chain, as well as the opportunithose same eight SDGs. ties, according to their relevance over the short, medium, and long term. We also held workshops with key internal stakeholders to assess risks. Not surprisingly, Constellium’s biggest sustainability risks and opportunities remained the ones already identified and classified into four main categories. We have for many years constructed a number of programs and action plans Learn more about the UN Sustainable Development around them, touching upon everything Goals at https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/sdgs from recycling to gender diversity. 40 Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019 CONSTELLIUM’S RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES AND THE ASSOCIATED SDGS PRODUCTS PEOPLE • Developing products with environmental benefits • Employee health and safety • Recycling • Gender diversity • Market regulatory changes* • Talent attraction and retention OPERATIONS RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS • Emissions and waste • Business ethics • Energy and greenhouse gas emissions • Sustainable purchasing *Market regulatory changes refers to modifications in legislation and environmental policies that touch upon Constellium’s activities. These changes include aluminium packaging recycling as part of the EU Circular Economy regulations and the Single Use Plastics strategy, the EU’s CO2 Emissions Trading System, and EU regulations on chemical use and industrial emissions. One way that Constellium addresses these changes is by participating in associations, which are listed in the Performance Value section of this report (page 73). ** Whereas community engagement did not appear as a main risk or opportunity in our latest materiality assessment, Constellium considers it an important part of our social responsibility in the regions in which we operate (see page 46). RECOGNITION OF OUR EFFORTS Constellium’s ongoing commitment to sustainability influences the business decisions we make, how we treat people, and the ways in which we create value. Our efforts to achieve our targets have earned us recognition from several independent organizations. Oekom, a leading rating agency for sustainable During the first semester investments, has rated our environmental, of 2020, as a result of the latest social, and governance performance with a “B,” assessment conducted by the best grade it provides within the metal and EcoVadis, Constellium was mining sector. recognized with the highest Our Climate Change 2019 Program received a rating, Platinum, which C rating from the Climate Disclosure Project represents a significant improvement versus the (CDP). This reflects the fact that engaging in 2018 Gold medal. It positions Constellium among recycling and developing lightweight solutions the 1% top performers. for our transportation customers increases We were honored to receive the Groupe PSA 2019 GHG emissions at our sites. However, CDP’s Supplier Award in the Corporate Social Responsibility methodology does not take into consideration category, for successful implementation of our the avoided emissions from our customers’ responsible supply chain policy and energy processes or final product use, which more than efficiency program. offset our own emissions. Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019 41 PRODUCTS Boosting Recycling Rates Through partnerships and innovative solutions, Constellium works tirelessly to improve and increase aluminium recycling. Aluminium can be endlessly recycled Constellium actively recycles more mine the ideal mix for the recycling prowhile maintaining its properties. By rethan 560,000 metric tons of externally cess and optimize scrap recovery. We are placing the need for primary aluminium, sourced aluminium scrap per year(3). At testing other technologies, such as rarecycled aluminium reduces waste, prothe same time, we are constantly seekdio frequency identification and optical tects resources, and minimizes greening to boost the recycling rates of the character recognition, to achieve even house gas emissions. industries we serve by working with greater recycling efficiency. partners on scrap collection and sortBetter schemes, investment in sorting ing, and more efficient closed-loop recenters, and citizens’ efforts have cycling processes. pushed Europe’s aluminium beverage can recycling up to 74.5%(1). However, While recycling scrap generated withresults remain much lower in the U.S. in our plants, Constellium works con(49.8% in 2018), despite recent prostantly to improve the efficiency of our gress in the collection and recycling of recycling processes. One ongoing techbeverage cans(2). To help address this nical challenge of recycling aluminium issue, we are working with regulators is properly identifying the composition and industry partners, including the mix of scrap, so that it can be sorted Can Manufacturers Institute and The and then recycled into the most suitRecycling Partnership, on potential able alloy. If an incorrect composition is solutions such as container deposit used for an alloy, additional energy and/ programs and legislation. We also ador virgin aluminium is required to fix it. vocate for recycling via communication campaigns (read about our award-winIn 2019, our Issoire and Neuf-Brisach ning video on page 38), at conferences, sites in France introduced 2D barcodes and by leading recycling initiatives. to better identify the alloy type, weight, and origin of scrap and coils, to deterAluminium process scrap 2 0 2 0 TA R G E T 2019 ACCOMPLISHMENTS NEXT STEPS • 80% beverage can recycling rate in Europe • Continue to work on improving • The average aluminium can recycling in-house recycling efficiency • Work with the industry and with rate in Europe reached 74.5% in 2017 • Keep working with stakeholders our stakeholders to increase the beverage (figures published in 2019) to promote recycling and regulations can recycling rate in the U.S. that treat all materials fairly (1) Data from 2017, published by European Aluminium on October 14, 2019. https://european-aluminium.eu/media/2669/european-aluminium-mpe-aluminium-beverage-can-2017recycling-rate-press-release.pdf. (2) Data published by Aluminium Association. https://www.aluminum.org/aluminum-can-advantage. (3) The registered amount of aluminium scrap externally sourced for recycling has been reviewed by PwC as part of the non-financial performance statement. See page 64, GRI-301-2 Recycled input materials used. 42 Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019 PRODUCTS Making Every Effort For Our Customers Constellium has strong, long-term relationships with customers in a variety of industries, who count on us to understand their business priorities, meet their deadlines, develop efficient solutions, and tailor our services to satisfy their needs. We make it a point to maintain close months. To meet this deadline, it formed we reduce greenhouse gas emissions contact with our customers, personalize a team to work with the BMW plant and associated with transportation and our offerings, and enhance the products our suppliers, held daily internal meetscrap by one-third. and services we provide. For example, in ings, and reported progress to BMW 2019, our plate shop in Issoire, France, every week. Another customer, Ball Beverage Packhosted a team of supply chain experts aging Europe, used to ship coils by truck from Airbus’ wing assembly plant in We also work to optimize process effifrom our Neuf-Brisach plant to their Chester, UK, while our sales and manciency and product delivery. Our Issoire site in Cabanillas, Spain, a distance of ufacturing teams discussed program plant sends aluminium plates to a local 1,600 km. Thanks to our coordinated ramp-ups with Airbus. third party, who machines them into work, Ball has optimized delivery and parts before delivering them to cusreduced greenhouse gas emissions by In China, our Changchun plant launched tomers. As a result, less metal is sent to replacing 60% of road transport by rail a rear Crash Management System for customers, the machining scrap travels transport for shipping half of the coils' the latest BMW 5 Series in only nine a shorter distance to our facilities, and total volume. Finally, Constellium recycles aluminium alloy scrap generated by our customers—for instance, collecting automotive body sheet scrap from Audi, recycling it into slabs at our Valais plant, then rolling it into new automotive body sheets at our Neuf-Brisach site. By creating this virtuous recycling loop, we increase the use of scrap in our manufacturing process and minimize the need for virgin material. Constellium Changchun team 2 0 2 0 TA R G E T 2019 ACCOMPLISHMENTS NEXT STEPS • Our customers acknowledged Constellium’s • Conduct a customer satisfaction efforts to offer superior products and services survey every two years in • Continue to regularly conduct with awards, including the Groupe PSA 2019 all business units customer satisfaction surveys Supplier Award for Corporate Social in all business units Responsibility and the Airbus 2019 Best Improver Award Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019 43 PEOPLE Reinforcing Our Culture of Safe Behavior Our safety record is good, but we will be satisfied with nothing less than zero accidents or injuries. We seek to guarantee the health and safety of all by constantly improving our EHS practices and integrating EHS culture into every aspect of our business. In 2019, our efforts drove our Recordable Case Rate down to 2.4 (1), even though four new sites were integrated into Constellium's EHS FIRST System (2). This number was better than our target, significantly lower than the European aluminium industry’s last published statistics (8.2 in 2018), and lower than the U.S. industry average, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics’ most recent data (10 in 2018). Nevertheless, we experienced seven serious injury cases, one of them a fatality. This tragic event moved us to introduce new mechanisms to reinforce our safety culture. We set up a Constellium Safety Task Force to analyze behaviors and reOne of the riskiest activities is the lockout/tagout of machines inforce prevention; it has since played an important role in developing and superWe held a workshop where members and risks, while teaching them how to vising flagship safety programs. from corporate functions and industrial better interact and accept feedback. Another team representing diverse funcsites met with a psychologist to underWe also implemented a program deditions and all operating segments studied stand why workers often avoid reporting cated to identifying, coaching, and suways to mitigate critical risks. It developed unsafe practices. They created the “See pervising high-risk individuals, who are an action plan for 2020, after identifying Something, Say Something” project, more likely to engage in at-risk behavimmediate and underlying causes for inwhich increases employees’ awareness iors than others, so that removal from juries related to lockout/tagout practices. of the need to speak up about hazards their position is a last resort(3). 2 0 2 0 TA R G E T 2019 ACCOMPLISHMENTS NEXT STEPS • Reduce Recordable Case Rate(4) by 10% annually • Monitor at-risk behavior • No more than four serious injuries a year • Implement plans to mitigate • A recordable case rate of 2.4 human-machine interface risks (Seven serious injury cases) • Be in the industry’s top quartile • Train employees on peer-to-peer for safety results interaction and incident reporting (1) The Recordable Case Rate has been reviewed by PwC as part of the non-financial performance statement. (2) New plants added to Constellium’s EHS FIRST System: Nanjing (China), Žilina (Slovakia), Astrex (Canada), and Vigo (Spain). (3) High-risk individuals are more likely to engage in at-risk behavior than others, even when they receive the same safety training. The main psychological factors are lack of self-control, risk-taking, rule violations, and lack of awareness. (4) Recordable Case Rate measures the number of fatalities, serious injuries, lost-time injuries, restricted work injuries, or medical treatments per one million hours worked. 44 Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019 PEOPLE Engaging Through Active Learning Our Learning & Development (L&D) strategy is based on Constellium’s mission and values. Its various programs encourage employees to challenge the status quo and one another as they continuously aspire for excellence. Since 2012, we have conducted a Global Employee Survey every two years, to measure employee engagement and track our progress towards our 2020 target(1). Although our overall results have improved significantly, we noticed disparities among categories. For example, our 2018 survey revealed large gains in employee satisfaction, but less adequate results for training and development, and company culture. Therefore, as part of the MOMENTUM program, Jasmeet Gill, Quality Process Engineer at Constellium, GEDP participant we developed global and local action plans to communicate our mission, consists of various modules, from the participants from multiple Constellistrategy, and values to employees. We history of our Company to our aluminum sites took advantage of concrete are motivating our people to strive for ium transformation processes, Human work experience, webinars, experienexcellence while showing that they are Resources practices, and approach to tial learning, and individual mentorintegral to the Company’s success. sustainable development. ing with senior Constellium leaders. O n o u r e l e a r n i n g p l a t fo r m , w e In September, we introduced our GlobTopics ranged from EHS to metallurgy, launched a fully customized Digital al Engineering Development Program sustainability, project management, Onboarding program that provides new (GEDP) to develop the technical, leadcoaching, and personal transformation. hires with useful information to supership, and business skills of our earAs one of our young engineers, Jasmeet port their integration and accelerate ly career engineers. We launched it at Gill, remarked, “It’s really exciting to their understanding of what it means our sites in Bowling Green, Kentucky, work at a company that truly invests in to work at Constellium. This program and Singen, Germany, where nearly 50 its employees.” 2 0 2 0 TA R G E T 2019 ACCOMPLISHMENTS NEXT STEPS • Launch of our Global Engineering • A six-point increase in employee Development Program at our • Continue pursuing our L&D programs satisfaction vs. 2014 (2) Bowling Green (U.S.) and Singen • Conduct the 2020 Global Employee Survey (Germany) sites (1) The survey covers five main categories: engagement, leadership, company culture, training and development, and EHS. (2) In our last survey, in 2018, we outperformed our 2020 target with a 10-point increase in employee satisfaction, compared with the 2014 baseline. Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019 45 PEOPLE Supporting Our Communities Around the world, and in a number of different ways, Constellium employees volunteer to improve the lives of people in their communities. From fundraisers to food drives, em“Initiatives like DuoDay ployees at many of our sites organized and participated in a range of programs demonstrate the throughout the year, for the benefit of loCompany’s openness to cal communities. people with disabilities, Constellium CARES is an initiative of our and also create U.S. sites, whereby dedicated teams seopportunities that would lect and oversee community projects proposed by our workers. Several projects in not necessarily have 2019 raised awareness and funds for the occurred otherwise.” fight against cancer. At Ravenswood, a Samuel Juge month-long campaign, “Early Detection R&D technician, C-TEC Saves Lives,” included a raffle, a clothEmployees participating in the Rayon de Soleil ing sale, and a 5K walk and run. Muscle initiative’s recreational activities Shoals hosted a “Lunch & Learn” event to promote early cancer detection. EmIn France, our C-TEC Technology Center ployees participated in the third annual ployees from Van Buren and Livonia, hosted DuoDay, inviting people with disIssoir’Ose race, with proceeds benefiting Michigan, took part in a 5K walk and run abilities to pair up with employee volunbreast cancer research. to support St. Jude Children’s Research teers and spend a day shadowing them Workers from our sites at Singen and Hospital. at the workplace. Our Paris office held its Gottmadingen, Germany, put on their In Switzerland, Constellium Valais helped first “Constellium Paris Community Day,” running shoes for the BeTreff charity run, the Vélo Club Lonza build a pump track where a team of Constellium volunteers raising money for the Lebenshilfe Singen for cyclists and skaters, and also particiattended a one-day cooking class taught organization, which helps to improve the pated in the Rayon de Soleil initiative, orby culinary students from the Apprentis quality of life for people with intellectual ganizing a week of recreational activities d’Auteuil foundation for vulnerable childisabilities. for seniors and people with disabilities. dren and young people. And Issoire’s em2 0 2 0 TA R G E T 2019 ACCOMPLISHMENTS NEXT STEPS • At least one community activity • 84% of our sites conducted • Continue to develop community per site every year a community program or event programs at all sites 46 Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019 O P E R AT I O N S Reducing Landfilled Waste We have implemented a variety of measures to minimize what we send to the landfill, including data collection, better waste segregation, technology, and teamwork. Constellium has put programs in place CONSTELLIUM PRODUCTION WASTE SENT TO LANDFILL (T/Y)(1) at all our sites to reduce landfilling, increase reuse and recycling, and mini35,000 mize the environmental impact of our 30,000 waste on soil, air, and water. In 2019, we disposed of 7% less production waste 25,000 than the year before, preventing nearly 20,000 2,000 metric tons from ending up in landfill (see page 66, key indicators (1)). 15,000 We focus most of our efforts on seven 10,000 plants that generate over 98% of the 24,880 30,151 28,569 27,560 25,607 production waste sent to landfill: Mus5,000 cle Shoals, Ravenswood, and Van Buren 0 (U.S.); Issoire, Neuf-Brisach, and Ussel 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (France); and Děčín (Czech Republic). Total landfill Target 2020 Since waste streams depend on each plant’s activity, size, and location, we employ different procedures at our variwhile disposing of fine particles. Musthe amount of waste our customers sent ous sites. Děčín introduced new technolcle Shoals and Děčín have hired external to landfill by 550 metric tons in an eightogies into its processes, resulting in a resuppliers to manage their biggest sourcmonth period. cycling increase of 14% and a reduction es of waste and increase recycling. We will keep working with our partners and of 477 metric tons in discarded dross(2). To reduce waste from product packagnetworks to find new and creative soluRavenswood initiated a program to iming, Muscle Shoals is replacing the heavy tions to reduce our municipal and industriprove waste segregation and address cardboard cores in aluminium sheet al landfilled waste, including flue gas dust, flue gas dust. Ussel treats and reuses coils with aluminium ones that we refor which there is currently no satisfactory sand that has been used for casting, trieve and recycle. This practice reduced recycling technology. 2 0 2 0 TA R G E T 2019 ACCOMPLISHMENTS NEXT STEPS • Reduce production waste going • The quantity of production waste • Continue to implement solutions to landfill by 10% vs. 2015 we sent to landfill decreased by to reduce waste generation 7% as compared with 2018 and increase recycling (1) The percentage of production waste reduction compared with the previous year and the recorded production waste have been reviewed by PwC as part of the non-financial performance statement. (2) A layer of intimately mixed aluminium, aluminium oxides, and gas on the surface of molten aluminium. Dross is generated in casthouse furnaces and during remelting/refining. Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019 47 O P E R AT I O N S Improving Energy Efficiency We continue to optimize energy use at our different plants by exploring an array of energy-saving opportunities, from visual management to heat capture. Energy efficiency is a key pillar of Conon energy management can pay off. the real-time effects of their practicstellium’s sustainability commitment, Also, at Ravenswood, implementation es on energy consumption. This led to and one that we constantly seek to of visual energy management at the further improvement in energy use and improve at all of our plants. Altogether, casthouse allowed operators to see contributed significantly to the plant’s we achieved a 2% improvement in enperformance. ergy efficiency from 2018 to 2019, with a 6.4% improvement against our 2015 In France, we have a different kind of enbenchmark, the equivalent of more than ergy project on the horizon, with exciting 370 GWh in energy savings (1). potential. In April 2019, the city of Issoire officially (and unanimously) approved We can attribute most of this progress a joint energy project with our Issoire to two main causes. First, two of our plant. The project entails recuperating U.S. plants, Muscle Shoals and Bowling heat from Constellium’s furnace exhaust Green, vastly improved their energy effumes and transferring it to water via ficiency in 2019, along with their overan exchanger, thereby providing a new all production efficiency. Secondly, our source of heat for the municipal swimRavenswood, U.S.; Issoire, France; and ming pool, high schools, and other comSingen, Germany plants maintained munity sites. This initiative is expected or improved their en­ergy performance to reduce the city’s energy expenses with robust manage­ment and specific while cutting down on greenhouse gas programs devoted to energy. emissions. One case worth particular mention was Singen, where steady progress was made despite limited energy-related The Issoire plant’s project is expected to recuperate heat from the furnace exhaust fumes to provide a new investments, proof that constant focus source of heat for municipal facilities 2 0 2 0 TA R G E T 2019 ACCOMPLISHMENTS NEXT STEPS • Further develop good practices in energy • 6.4% energy efficiency improvement management throughout Constellium sites • 10% energy efficiency improvement against the 2015 benchmark compared with 2015 baseline • Prepare the group for additional actions • Energy savings of more than 370 GWh to take us beyond our 2020 target compared with 2015 • Continue to look for new opportunities to save energy in all areas of activity (1) The percentages and values of energy savings, compared with previous years, have been reviewed by PwC as part of the non-financial performance statement. 48 Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Achieving ASI Certification As a firm supporter of the Aluminium Stewardship Initiative, Constellium has been promoting the adoption of ASI standards across the aluminium value chain. In 2019, we received our first ASI certification at our Singen site, and we are working towards more. Constellium is proud to be a founding “The positive outcome member of the Aluminium Stewardship Initiative (ASI), which has developed and of the certification operates a certification program for the audit was due to aluminium value chain. The program foeveryone’s efforts. cuses on responsible production, sourcTeamwork is very ing, and stewardship of our industry. important.” Companies and sites receive certification by respecting environmental, social, Anja Isele and governance principles, as defined by ASI Project Manager and Supply Chain Specialist Metal Purchase ASI standards. In 2018, ASI became an Constellium Singen Rolled Products associate member of the ISEAL Alliance, the global association for sustainability standards. Constellium’s facility in Singen, Germany In recent years, we have encouraged and assisted our suppliers across the aluby working on certification for Singen, Singen was also certified against ASI’s minium value chain to adopt ASI standone of our largest sites. In early 2019, an Chain of Custody (CoC) Standard, linking ards. We are delighted to see that many independent auditor performed a pre-auresponsible production to responsible of them have become ASI members, and dit, and we used the results to make imsourcing, and emphasizing sustainability some have succeeded in gaining certifiprovements. In the following months, ASI issues in procurement. cation. recognized Singen’s casting and rolling Constellium is looking to obtain more Constellium is also committed to having facilities with its Performance Standard certifications in 2020, for Neuf-Brisach in our own sites certified, so that we can deCertification, which covers critical isFrance (including recycling), and for three liver ASI aluminium—coils, sheets, prosues such as greenhouse gas emissions, German sites that supply the automotive files, and structures—to our customers waste management, materials stewardindustry: Singen Extrusion, Gottmadingthroughout the supply chain. We started ship, biodiversity, and human rights. en, and Dahenfeld. 2 0 2 0 TA R G E T 2019 ACCOMPLISHMENTS NEXT STEPS • ASI certified Singen’s casting and • Achieve ASI certification (Performance • Have at least one site ASI certified rolling operations with the Performance Standard and Chain of Custody Standard) Standard and the Chain of for our Neuf-Brisach, Singen Extrusion, Custody Standard Gottmadingen, and Dahenfeld sites Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019 49 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Ensuring Sustainable Purchasing We pursue sustainability at every step of our business, starting with our supply chain. Close collaboration with our suppliers results in stronger relationships and steady improvement. As we aim for sustainability throughout “Constellium has collaborated with many our business, Constellium expects our suppliers to comply with all applicaof our U.S. scrap suppliers, sharing our ble laws and to respect sustainability sustainability goals and helping them practices. develop theirs. These conversations have We have aligned our Responsible Supply been very productive, and we look forward to Chain Management Policy and our Supexpanding our engagement.” plier Code of Conduct with the principles of the United Nations Global Compact. Ron Lotz Both our Policy and Code of Conduct Director Metal Purchasing U.S., Constellium Metal Procurement apply to our suppliers, consultants, contractors, business partners, and agents. Proper implementation of these documents depends upon the commitment When suppliers’ self-assessments delivthe assessment and auditing processof all parties, various audits and assesser substandard results, we ask them to es. We also organize webinars to help ments, and continual improvement. take corrective measures, then validate steer our suppliers through the various We ask all of our contracted suppliers their actions via the EcoVadis platform. procedures. to sign our Code, thereby agreeing to reAt times we follow up with an onsite In 2019, Constellium’s commitment to spect and uphold its terms in every one Workplace Condition Assessment. In responsible purchasing practices was of their business operations, as regards addition, we perform onsite audits every recognized when the casting and rolling the environment, society, business eththree years for suppliers whose sectors operations at our Singen, Germany plant ics, human rights, and labor practices. or locations put them at risk of divergent were certified against the Aluminium We expect our key suppliers to perform practices. Stewardship Initiative’s Chain of Custody a self-assessment every three years Constellium’s purchasing teams are standard (see page 49). using the EcoVadis platform. In 2019, specially trained to bring suppliers on 38 additional suppliers were assessed. board and offer guidance throughout 2 0 2 0 TA R G E T 2019 ACCOMPLISHMENTS NEXT STEPS • Evaluate sustainability performance of key suppliers* • 38 new EcoVadis assessments performed by suppliers • Continue to implement our Responsible • Undertake onsite audits of at-risk suppliers Supply Chain Management Policy, • Constellium conducted two onsite including asking for sign-offs on Workplace Condition Assessments our Supplier Code of Conduct • Ensure contracted suppliers sign • More than 50% of our key suppliers have and conducting due diligence our Code of Conduct now signed our Code of Conduct* * We have identified about 200 key suppliers, meaning those from whom we purchase the most. 50 Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019 HUMAN RIGHTS Focusing on Human Rights Guided by our commitment to respect the dignity of all people and communities, Constellium continues to strengthen human rights policies for the Company, our partners, and our suppliers. We have aligned our human rights policy contractors. In our own operations, we suppliers, to act against discrimination with the UN Guiding Principles on Busiidentified potential risks such as health with our diversity task force, and to proness and Human Rights and the ASI Perand safety, environmental impact, and vide training on our Worldwide Code of formance Standard. In 2019, we reached gender discrimination. Employee & Business Conduct (includa milestone in our Human Rights & Labor During the workshop, we organized the ing an e-learning course that integrates Practices roadmap by organizing a globrisks into a heat map by determining human rights and labor principles). For al workshop to identify potential risks to the likelihood and severity of each risk, the second phase, we will interview inhuman rights, with the participation of and developed a two-phase action plan ternal and external stakeholders about leaders from key functions and sites. to mitigate them. For the first phase, we these potential risks and our response, We found that the greatest risks were in continue to roll out our Responsible Supto confirm that we are on the right path. our supply chain and among our onsite ply Chain Management Policy with our CELEBRATING DIVERSITY “It’s been my experience “Diversity is embedded in and lived through our values of safety, respect, and empowerment— that there are generally ensuring each of us feels safe and valued for the fewer women than men differences we bring to Constellium,” remarks JeanMarc Germain, CEO of Constellium. Knowing that in most STEM careers, our differences are our strengths, we are increasing but that seems to be diversity in our workforce. As part of our Gender Diversity Program, we are hiring more women, changing. My advice is supporting their access to leadership positions, and to seek out and encourage fixing potential salary inequalities. The percentage of women on our workforce increased from 11% in 2016 other women in their careers.” to 13% in 2019, and they represented more than 20% Jennifer Call, of our total hires in 2018 and 2019 (1). Quality Systems Lead Our actions are not limited to gender—at our Issoire at Constellium plant, Constellium employs more than 100 people Muscle Shoals, with disabilities, providing equipment such as hearing Alabama aids and ergonomic chairs. Under the French program Reconnaissance de la Qualité de Travailleur Handicapé, our Ussel site worked with two local agencies to adapt jobs to workers with different abilities. (1) The percentage of women in our workforce and the number of new hires have been reviewed by PwC as part of the non-financial performance statement. Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019 51 GHG EMISSIONS Engaging in Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reduction Since 2012, Constellium has been monitoring and disclosing our greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, while also taking energy efficiency measures in order to reduce them. Constellium’s 2025 target aims to reduce the intensity of GHG emissions by 25% compared with a 2015 baseline. Historically, we did not have a specific sources, or substituting high-emistarget for scope 1 and 2 emissions reWe are always looking for sions energy sources with more effiductions, but worked to minimize them opportunities to work with our cient ones. For instance, we plan to through our energy efficiency program. customers and reduce our joint switch our last furnace using heavy This approach was nonetheless effeccarbon footprint by optimizing fuel oil to natural gas. This is expecttive; in 2019, our measures to improve product delivery. We have achieved ed to reduce Constellium’s yearly energy efficiency saved about 100 kt this by reducing the quantity of emissions by several thousand tons of CO 2 equivalent (eq.), as compared material to be transported (see our of CO2 eq. with 2015 performance(1). Issoire plant example, page 43), and by substituting road transportation Collaborating to minimize Our target leverages this experience, with rail (see our example with the GHG emissions and by 2025 we plan to reduce our Ball Corporation, page 43). Constellium is also seeking to reduce scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions intensiour scope 3 emissions, in collaboraty by 25%, as compared with the 2015 tion with our customers, suppliers, baseline. We calculate emissions inincluding using LED lighting, optimizand other stakeholders (such as protensity by dividing scope 1 and 2 emising production routes, and upgrading fessional associations). sions in tons of CO2 eq. by consolidated the idle modes on our equipment. For sales volume. example, in casting operations, we will One important way is through coopcontinue to deploy state-of-the-art eration on recycling activities, which Using a range of levers technologies such as electromagnetic reduces the need for virgin metal (see Improving energy efficiency remains stirring and regenerative burners. page 42). Recycling aluminium creates at the heart of our efforts to limit our about 20 times less GHG emissions carbon footprint, since most of our We intend to complement these measthan producing primar y aluminium. GHG emissions are the product of enures by modifying our energy mix, and Constellium works internally to develop ergy use. We are undertaking various are exploring new possibilities, such and optimize our recycling capacities, initiatives to be more energy efficient, as using electricity from renewable and we engage with others to improve 2 0 2 5 TA R G E T 2019 ACCOMPLISHMENTS NEXT STEPS • A 25% reduction in scope 1 and 2 • Scope 1 and 2 emissions intensity • Continue working on energy efficiency emissions intensity in comparison was reduced by 7% at the end of 2019 and explore further opportunities to 2015 in comparison to the 2015 baseline (1) to reduce GHG emissions (1) The CO2 eq. emissions saved, in kilo metric tons, and the scope 1 and 2 emissions intensity reduction from 2019, have been reviewed by PwC as part of the non-financial performance statement. 52 Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019 recycling rates and the efficiency of GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS (kt CO2 eq.)(1) recycling schemes. 1,400 Another way we address scope 3 emis1,200 sions is by offering our customers ad1,000 vanced aluminium solutions that can lower the environmental impact of 800 their products. This is of particular 600 relevance in the transpor tation industry. Constellium’s lightweight solu400 tions, such as Surfalex ®, Securalex ®, 200 Strongalex® and HSA6® allow for major 757 755 754 752 745 438 447 431 429 438 1,194 1,203 1,185 1,181 1,183 savings in automotive product emis0 sions, while Airware ® can reduce the Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 emissions of aircraft and spacecraft. 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Trucks, boats, and rail cars are some of the other applications for our advanced aluminium solutions. GREENHOUSE GAS INTENSITY (t CO2 eq. / t of sales)(1) 0.900 Measuring the true environmental 0.808 0.818 0.800 0.770 benefit of Constellium’s advanced alu0.800 0.744 minium products requires a full life cy0.700 cle assessment. For example, it takes more energy to increase the recycling 0.600 rate of a plant, but the result is better 0.500 for the environment. Similarly, produc0.400 ing weight-saving alloys for transportation applications consumes more 0.300 energy than manufacturing standard 0.200 products. In both of these cases, doing 0.100 the right thing for the planet increases our scope 1 and 2 emissions, but they 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 are more than offset by the emissions saved over a product’s life cycle. Scope 1 Scope 2 Total Scope definitions: Scope 1: direct emissions from sources we own or control Scope 2: indirect emissions from production of the energy we purchase (electricity) Scope 3: all indirect emissions (not included in scope 2) that occur throughout Constellium’s value chain, including both upstream and downstream emissions (1) GHG Emissions in kilo metric tons of CO2 eq., and GHG Intensity in metric tons of CO2 eq. per ton of sales, from 2019, have been reviewed by PwC as part of the non-financial performance statement. Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019 53 Performance report Consolidated income statement • Consolidated statement of financial position • Consolidated statement of cash flows • Share information • United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress • GRI content index 54 Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019 PERFORMANCE REPORT Financial statements Consolidated income statement Year ended Year ended Year ended (in millions of euros) December 31, 2019 December 31, 2018 December 31, 2017 Revenue 5,907 5,686 5,237 Cost of sales (5,305) (5,148) (4,682) Gross profit 602 538 555 Selling and administrative expenses (276) (247) (247) Research and development expenses (48) (40) (36) Restructuring costs (4) (1) (4) Other gains / (losses) net (19) 154 70 Income from operations 255 404 338 Finance costs net (175) (149) (260) Share of income / (loss) of joint ventures 2 (33) (29) Income before income tax 82 222 49 Income tax expense (18) (32) (80) Net income / (loss) 64 190 (31) Income attributable to: Equity holders of Constellium 59 188 (31) Non-controlling interests 5 2 Net income / (loss) 64 190 (31) Earnings per share attributable to the equity holders of Constellium Year ended Year ended Year ended (in euros per share) December 31, 2019 December 31, 2018 December 31, 2017 Basic 0.43 1.40 (0.28) Diluted 0.41 1.37 (0.28) Note: More detailed information on our financial performance can be found in our Annual Report on Form 20-F at: https://www.constellium.com/investors/sec-filings Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019 55 PERFORMANCE REPORT CO N SOLI DATE D STAT E M E N T O F F I NA N C I A L P OS IT ION On December 31, On December 31, (in millions of euros) 2019 2018 Assets Cash and cash equivalents 184 164 Trade receivables and other 474 587 Inventories 670 660 Other financial assets 22 30 1,350 1,441 Non-current assets Property, plants, and equipment 2,056 1,666 Goodwill 455 422 Intangible assets 70 70 Investments accounted for under the equity method 1 1 Deferred income tax assets 185 163 Trade receivables and other 60 64 Other financial assets 7 74 2,834 2,460 TOTAL ASSETS 4,184 3,901 Liabilities Current liabilities Trade payables and other 999 968 Borrowings 201 57 Other financial liabilities 35 60 Income tax payable 14 8 Provisions 23 46 1,272 1,139 Non-current liabilities Trade payables and other 21 27 Borrowings 2,160 2,094 Other financial liabilities 23 29 Pension and other post-employment benefit obligations 670 610 Provisions 99 94 Deferred income tax liabilities 24 22 2,997 2,876 TOTAL LIABILITIES 4,269 4,015 Equity Share capital 3 3 Share premium 420 420 Retained deficit and other reserves (519) (545) Equity attributable to equity holders of Constellium (96) (122) Non-controlling interests 11 8 TOTAL EQUITY (85) (114) TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 4,184 3,901 56 Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019 PERFORMANCE REPORT CON SOLI DATE D STAT E M E N T O F CAS H F LOWS Year ended Year ended Year ended (in millions of euros) December 31, 2019 December 31, 2018 December 31, 2017 Net income / (loss) 64 190 (31) Adjustments Depreciation and amortization 256 197 171 Finance costs—net 175 149 260 Income tax expense 18 32 80 Share of (income) / loss of joint ventures (2) 33 29 Unrealized (gains) / losses on derivatives—net and from (33) 86 (54) remeasurement of monetary assets and liabilities—net Losses / (gains) on disposal 3 (186) 3 Other—net 16 14 7 Interest paid (158) (129) (185) Income tax paid (6) (23) (18) Change in trade working capital Inventories 57 (9) (99) Trade receivables 104 (145) (91) Trade payables (31) (27) 124 Margin calls 5 (5) — Change in provisions and pension obligations (25) (58) (24) Other working capital 4 (53) (12) Net cash flows from operating activities 447 66 160 Purchases of property, plants, and equipment (271) (277) (276) Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired (83) — — Proceeds from disposals, net of cash 2 200 2 Equity contribution and loan to joint ventures — (24) (41) Other investing activities (1) 10 23 Net cash flows used in investing activities (353) (91) (292) Net proceeds received from issuance of shares — — 259 Proceeds from issuance of Senior Notes — — 1,440 Repayment of Senior Notes (100) — (1,559) Lease repayments (86) (15) (13) Proceeds / (repayments) from revolving credit facilities and other loans 109 (68) 29 Payment of deferred financing costs and exit fees — — (118) Transactions with non-controlling interests (4) — — Other financing activities 5 1 23 Net cash flows (used in) / from financing activities (76) (82) 61 Net increase / (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 18 (107) (71) Cash and cash equivalents—beginning of year 164 269 347 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 2 2 (7) Cash and cash equivalents—end of year 184 164 269 Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019 57 PERFORMANCE REPORT SHARE PRICE EVOLUTION IN 2019 IN US $ 15 12 9 6 JAN FEB MAR APR MAY JUNE JULY AUG SEP OCT NOV DEC SHAREHOLDING AVERAGE NUMBER OF DAILY SHARES STRUCTURE TRADED IN 2019 7.1% 11.9% 81% 1.1 million shares ■ Free float ■ Bpifrance ■ T. Rowe Price Associates, Inc. 58 Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019 PERFORMANCE REPORT Sustainability performance UN I TE D N AT I O N S G LO BA L C O M PACT ( U NGC ) C OM M U N ICAT ION ON P R OGR ES S (C OP ) GC ACT IVE In 2019, we aligned our 2020 sustainability targets with the eight UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) that are key for our industry. We have also worked to identify the sustainability risks affecting Constellium’s activities and aluminium value chain over the short, medium, and long term. Not surprisingly, our biggest sustainability risks and opportunities remained the ones already identified by our previous Materiality Assessment. We have for many years constructed a number of programs and action plans around them, which also align with the UNGC Principles. Page Cross reference / additional information CEO commitment of UNGC 14-15 Interview Human Rights 19, 24, Our Human Rights Policy and Labor Practices is aligned with the UN Guiding Principles on Principle 1: Businesses should support and 40, 41, Business and Human Rights and the ASI Performance Standard. The policy’s principles respect the protection of internationally 44, 46 were integrated into our Code of Employee and Business Conduct* (Employee CoC) and proclaimed human rights. 49, 50, Supplier Code of Conduct* (Supplier CoC). 51, 71 In 2019, we organized a group-level workshop that helped identify existing and potential Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit 72 human rights risks, and developed a two-phase action plan to mitigate them. in human rights abuses. For more information, see the GRI Content Index, GRI 405-414. Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective Our Human Rights Policy and Labor Practices is aligned with the UN Guiding Principles on recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Business and Human Rights and the ASI Performance Standard. 19, 24, Our Employee CoC was updated in 2019, reinforcing our standards on anti-corruption and Principle 4: The elimination of all forms 40, 41, Human Rights and Labor Practices. of forced and compulsory labour. 44, 45, We take proactive measures to increase diversity in our workforce and to ensure equality 49, 50, and inclusivity for all. As part of our Gender Diversity Program, we are committed to hiring Principle 5: The effective abolition 51, 68, a greater number of women, supporting their career development and representation in of child labor. 70, 71 leadership positions, and closing the gender pay gap. Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination For more information, see the GRI Content Index, GRI 102-41, 401-409. in respect of employment and occupation. Environment 15, 19, Principle 7: Businesses should support a 24, 47, Reducing our environmental footprint is at the core of our Employee precautionary approach to environmental 48, 49, CoC and EHS Policy*. challenges. 50 42, 43, Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote Product recycling, waste management, energy efficiency, and greenhouse gas 47, 48, greater environmental responsibility. emissions remain the key areas of focus of our 2020 Sustainability Targets, for which 49, 50, many strategies, research projects, and technologies are being developed. Principle 9: Encourage the development and 52, 53, For more about our environmental disclosure, see the GRI Content Index, GRI 301-308. diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 69, 70 Anti-corruption We train our employees on anti-corruption through our Employee CoC training. In 2019, a special session on anti-corruption with the Executive Committee was conducted. Specific training sessions were conducted by our Legal and Internal Audit Principle 10: Businesses should work against departments with our sales, purchasing, and finance teams. 19, 49, corruption in all its forms, including extortion We have included anti-corruption principles in our Supplier CoC and added clauses in 50, 69 and bribery. contracts with our customers. We have also put a due diligence process in place for business partners. A Whistleblower Policy and Hotline encourage our employees to report any suspected wrongdoing. For more information, see the GRI Content Index, GRI 205. * Our EHS Policy, Code of Employee and Business Conduct, Supplier Code of Conduct, Human Rights Policy and Labor Practices, and Responsible Supply Chain Management Policy can be downloaded at this link: https://www.constellium.com/sustainability/downloads/policies-codes-conduct Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019 59 PERFORMANCE REPORT Products _ See pages 42-43 for more information on Products ALUMI N IUM B E VE RAG E CA N RECYC L I N G R AT ES 80 73.6% 72.8%* 74.5% * 72.9% 71.3% 69.5% 68.3% 70 66.7% 63.1% 64.0% 61.8% 58.0% 60 54.5% 54.5% 52.0% 49.2% 56.7% 49.4% 49.8% 48.4% 48.0% 48.0% 50 54.1% 54.2% 54.9% 44% 43.0% 50.9% 49.7% 48.5% 48.2% 46.0% 45% 45.3% 40 45.0% 44.3% 45.1% 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Europe U.S. * Accounts for change in the calculation method of the beverage can recycling rate to reflect new EU definitions People _ See pages 44-46 for more information on People SAFETY R EC O RDA B L E CAS E RAT E * 26.0 25 19.0 18.5 18.5 20 17.5 16 15 14 14 15 13.5 11.5 10.7 10 10 9.2 9 10 8.4 7.8 7.8 8.2 7.2 6.9 10.5 6.2 6.3 8.2 8.4 8.4 5 7.3 7.1 6.7 6.3 4.9 3.8 3.5 3.2 3.3 3.2 2.6 2.7 2.8 2.9 2.3 2.4 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Constellium European Aluminium U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics – Aluminium * Recordable Case Rate measures the number of fatalities, serious injuries, lost-time injuries, restricted work injuries, or medical treatments per one million hours worked. Project contractors and visitors have been systematically included in these statistics since 2008. Before that, only extended contractors such as canteen and security staff were included. See pages 24 and 44 for more information about serious injuries. 60 Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019 PERFORMANCE REPORT People _ See pages 44-46 for more information on People GR I 1 0 2 8 I N FO RM AT I O N O N E M P LOY E ES A N D OT HE R WOR K E R S Does not include employees and workers of joint ventures Temporary (agency, excluding Apprentice Inactive Permanent Fixed-term contractors) Total All Constellium Number of employees with Male 272 32 specific employment type Female 62 14 Number of employees Male 10,079 430 747 per employment contract Female 1,467 102 Number of employees working Full-time 334 44 11,319 512 747 full/part time Part-time 0 2 227 20 TOTAL 13,205 TOTAL PERMANENT AND FIXED TERMS 12,124 Europe Number of employees with Male 270 2 specific employment type Female 60 12 Number of employees Male 7,192 348 702 per employment contract Female 939 57 Number of employees working Full-time 330 12 7,910 399 702 full/part time Part-time 0 2 221 6 TOTAL 9,582 TOTAL PERMANENT AND FIXED TERMS 8,550 Asia Number of employees with Male specific employment type Female Number of employees Male 10 57 0 per employment contract Female 12 18 Number of employees working Full-time 22 62 0 full/part time Part-time 13 TOTAL 97 TOTAL PERMANENT AND FIXED TERMS 97 North America (United States, Canada, and Mexico) Number of employees with Male 2 30 specific employment type Female 2 2 Number of employees Male 2,877 25 45 per employment contract Female 516 27 Number of employees working Full-time 4 32 3,388 51 45 full/part time Part-time 5 1 TOTAL 3,526 TOTAL PERMANENT AND FIXED TERMS 3,477 Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019 61 PERFORMANCE REPORT GR I 4 0 1-1 N E W E M PLOYE E H I RES A N D E M P LOY E E T U R N OVE R * Permanent employees excluding those of joint ventures** Number of new Number of employees Number of employees hired who left the company employees on Turnover rate in 2019 in 2019 December 31, 2019 F M F M F M F M Europe Under 30 years old 33 163 12 88 129 913 9.30% 9.64% 30-50 years old 99 309 36 179 585 3,818 6.15% 4.69% Over 50 years old 5 28 27 218 235 2,463 11.49% 8.85% TOTAL 137 500 75 485 949 7,194 7.90% 6.74% North America Under 30 years old 97 265 69 139 96 428 71.88% 32.48% 30-50 years old 140 348 105 195 264 1,472 39.77% 13.25% Over 50 years old 53 103 42 127 158 1,007 26.58% 12.61% TOTAL 290 716 216 461 518 2,907 41.70% 15.86% Asia Under 30 years old 0 0 0 0 1 0 0.00% 0.00% 30-50 years old 3 2 2 0 9 7 22.22% 0.00% Over 50 years old 1 0 1 0 2 3 50.00% 0.00% TOTAL 4 2 3 0 12 10 25.00% 0.00% TOTAL Under 30 years old 130 428 81 227 226 1,341 35.84% 16.92% 30-50 years old 242 659 143 374 858 5,297 16.67% 7.06% Over 50 years old 59 131 70 345 395 3,473 17.72% 9.93% TOTAL 431 1,218 294 946 1,479 10,111 19.88% 9.36% * Turnover rate is calculated as number of employees who left the company in 2019 divided by the number of employees on the 31st of December 2019. ** Employees of joint ventures are not material to Constellium’s total number of employees. GR I 4 0 4 -1 AV E RAG E H O U RS O F T RA I N I NG P E R Y E A R P E R E M P LOY E E Female Male Managers* Operators* All employees All Constellium Average training hours per year/employee 28.5 21.9 19.1 22.8 22.7 * “Operators” refers to employees working on the shop floors; “managers” refers to employees with administrative or managerial roles. GR I 4 0 5 -1 DIV E RS I T Y O F G OVE RNA N C E BODIES A N D E M P LOY E ES Permanent employees excluding those of joint ventures* Female Male Total Age % Board Members Under 30 years old 0 0 0 0% 30-50 years old 1 0 1 9% Over 50 years old 2 8 10 91% TOTAL 3 8 11 100% GENDER % 27% 73% 100% 62 Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019 PERFORMANCE REPORT Job Levels Age Ranges Female Male Total % Age % Female % Male All Constellium Under 30 years old 0 0 0 0% Executive Committee Members 30-50 years old 1 2 3 30% Over 50 years old 0 7 7 70% SUBTOTAL 1 9 10 10% 90% Under 30 years old 0 0 0 0% Vice Presidents & Directors 30-50 years old 10 56 66 52% Over 50 years old 5 56 61 48% SUBTOTAL 15 112 127 12% 88% Senior Managers / Senior Experts / Under 30 years old 94 225 319 13% Individual Contributors / Technical 30-50 years old 345 1,090 1,435 57% Master Experts Over 50 years old 122 629 751 30% SUBTOTAL 561 1,944 2,505 22% 78% Under 30 years old 132 1,115 1,247 14% Technicians & Operators 30-50 years old 502 4,151 4,653 52% Over 50 years old 268 2,780 3,048 34% SUBTOTAL 902 8,046 8,948 10% 90% TOTAL 1,479 10,111 11,590 13% 87% * Employees of joint ventures are not included in Constellium's total number of employees. GR I 4 0 5 -2 R ATI O O F BAS I C SA L A RY A N D RE M U N E R AT ION OF WOM E N A N D M E N Permanent employees excluding joint ventures and Asia* Job Level** Ratio W to M All Constellium Vice Presidents / Senior Directors 96% Senior Managers 81% Technicians & Operators 84% Europe Vice Presidents / Senior Directors 111% Senior Managers 80% Technicians & Operators 82% North America Vice Presidents / Senior Directors 77% Senior Managers 83% Technicians & Operators 80% * Employees of operations in Asia and joint ventures are not included in Constellium’s total number of employees. ** Vice Presidents / Senior Directors includes executive committee members; “Operators” refers to employees working on the shop floors; “Managers” refers to employees with administrative or managerial roles. Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019 63 PERFORMANCE REPORT Operations _ See pages 47-48 for more information on Operations GR I 3 0 2 -1 EN E RGY C O NS U M P T I O N WI T H IN T HE OR GA N IZAT ION IN T E R A J OU L E (TJ ) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Direct energy (TJ) Anthracite 500 522 389 408 346 LPG 15 15 15 14 15 Natural gas 13,274 13,198 13,512 13,495 13,471 Diesel 120 118 116 115 107 Heavy fuel 163 154 152 155 119 Renewable sources 0 0 0 0 0 TOTAL 14,071 14,008 14,185 14,187 14,058 Indirect energy (TJ) Purchased 5,583 5,777 5,938 5,870 6,016 Electricity Sold 0 0 0 0 0 Purchased 0 0 0 0 0 Steam Sold 112 194 104 120 110 TOTAL DIRECT + INDIRECT ENERGY CONSUMPTION (TJ) 19,542 19,591 20,019 19,937 19,964 FRO M EN E R GY C O NS U M P T I O N TO E N E RGY E F F IC IE N CY Raw energy consumption per metric ton is not necessarily the most relevant indicator of energy efficiency, because we need to take into account the effect of different product mixes. For instance, the manufacture of automotive sheet requires significantly more energy during rolling and finishing operations than beverage can body sheet. Therefore, increasing the share of one product over another will affect the overall energy per metric ton, independently of any other change. For this reason, we have identified the relative energy consumption per metric ton of different product lines and use this to transpose raw data on energy per metric ton into an energy efficiency index. This index reflects the intrinsic manufacturing performance of our operations, regardless of any changes in our product mix. See page 48 for more information on our efforts to increase energy efficiency. GRI 301-2 RECYCLED INPUT MATERIALS USED Constellium uses a significant share of recycled aluminium to manufacture our products. On average, recycled aluminium accounted for 38% of our product content in 2019. Of this, 18% was post-consumer scrap (generated at the end-of-life phase of finished goods), and 20% was pre-consumer production scrap (generated downstream from Constellium’s operations). This recycled material input does not account for internally generated scrap, in line with the ISO 14021 standard. That being said, Constellium does not consider that recycled content should be singled out as the only relevant indicator for the environmental performance of aluminium products. We prefer to focus on a product’s end-of-life recycling, to ensure that valuable resources are reliably and efficiently collected and recycled. For more on recycling and Constellium's advocacy on this topic, please consult our website at https://www.constellium.com/sustainability/aluminium-recycling 64 Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019 PERFORMANCE REPORT GRI 303-3 TOTAL WATER WITHDRAWAL IN MILLION CUBIC METERS WATER FROM SURFACE GROUND WATER TOTAL WATER PUBLIC NET WATER 29.7 30.4 28.6 28.4 30 24.5 25 22.2 22.5 22.9 20 15 10 7.1 5.7 5.5 5.1 5 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4 0 2016 2017 2018 2019 GRI 303-5 WATER CONSUMPTION IN MILLION CUBIC METERS millions of kt Al/year m3/year 35 1,750 Water use is mainly driven by cooling 30 1,500 operations during metal casting and rolling activities. Since 2016, the water 25 1,250 consumption slightly decreased despite a production* increase. 20 1,000 15 750 Water consumption (m3 /year) 10 500 Production (kt Al) 5 250 29.7 28.6 30.4 28.4 * Production data before elimination of intra-group flows. 2016 2017 2018 2019 GRI 306-1 WATER DISCHARGE BY QUALITY AND DESTINATION IN METRIC TONS DISSOLVED TOTAL TOTAL BOD5 * TOTAL COD ** ALUMINIUM HYDROCARBON FLUORIDES SUSPENDED SOLIDS 287.2 287 300 250 232.8 206.7 200 150 111.3 104.4 96.7 91.4 100 81.8 60.3 49.9 50 39 11.8 12.9 14 2.7 3 4.1 2.5 4.9 3.4 6.5 5.5 4.2 0 2016 2017 2018 2019 * Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD) **Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD) Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019 65 PERFORMANCE REPORT GRI 305-7 NITROGEN OXIDES (NO x ), SULFUR OXIDES (SOx), AND OTHER SIGNIFICANT AIR EMISSIONS IN METRIC TONS Air emissions are calculated based on one or two spot measurements per year. This can cause significant fluctuations from one year to another. Air emissions have improved slightly since 2015, while our production has increased. NOx PARTICULATE SO2 VOC * MATERIALS 1,325 1,141 1,155 1,059 955 973 1,000 909 865 750 625 557 492 500 405 262 244 245 250 215 0 2016 2017 2018 2019 * Volatile Organic Compounds Emissions (VOC) GRI 306-2 WASTE BY TYPE AND DISPOSAL METHOD IN METRIC TONS RECYCLING INCINERATION LANDFILLLANDFILLPRODUCTION NON-PRODUCTION* 153,179 150,961 149,028 140,466 150 127,526 100 50 24,880 30,151 28,569 27,560 25,607 6,304 8,781 7,375 6,243 6,036 4,266 3,206 3,404 3,623 4,730 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 * Non-production waste refers to waste generated from activities such as construction or demolition. Waste (t) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Recycling 127,526 140,466 153,179 149,028 150,961 % Recycling 79% 76% 80% 80% 81% Incineration 6,304 8,781 7,375 6,243 6,036 % Incineration 4% 5% 4% 3% 3% Landfill production 24,880 30,151 28,569 27,560 25,607 Landfill non-production* 3,206 4,266 3,404 3,623 4,730 % Total landfill 17% 19% 17% 17% 16% Total Waste 161,916 183,664 192,528 186,454 187,333 Total hazardous waste 120,417 133,777 144,659 141,627 132,549 Total non-hazardous waste 41,499 49,888 47,869 44,827 54,784 Hazardous and non-hazardous waste categories are defined in accordance with the definition outlined in the EU Waste Framework Directive. * Non-production waste refers to waste generated from activities such as construction or demolition. 66 Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019 PERFORMANCE REPORT GRI content index This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option Standard Description Cross reference/Additional information Pages GRI 102 General disclosure Organizational Profile 102-1 Name of the organization Constellium SE (Constellium) 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Creating value throughout the life cycle of aluminium 12-13 A global sector leader 16 Our main brands are: Airware®, Sealium, Alumold®, Unidal, Herkal, HK34, 3-9 Xtral 728, Diamal R, Diamal S, Alplan, Certal, Fortal, Alcast, Fibral, Surfalex®, 26-35 Formalex®, Strongalex®, Ultralex®, Skybright®, Inoxal®, Solar Surface®, Longlinefinish®, Securalex®, Constellium HSA6®, Constellium HCA6®, Modalex®, Butlerfinish®, Staybright®, Keikor®, Aeral®, Dokima®, Kool X®, @bright®, Gripster and AHEADD™ 102-3 Location of headquarters Paris, France 102-4 Location of operations A global sector leader 16, 29, 31, 33 102-5 Ownership and legal form Constellium is a public company that aims to operate with the highest ethical standards and best practices, to be responsive to our shareholders and other stakeholders, and operates under a worldwide Code of Conduct. We are listed on NYSE under the ticker symbol ‘CSTM’. Shareholders as of December 31, 2019 – free float: 81%; Bpifrance: 11.9%; T. Rowe Price Associates, Inc. 7.1% 102-6 Markets served A global sector leader 16-17, 26-35 102-7 Scale of the organization Creating value throughout the life cycle of aluminium 12-13 A global sector leader 16-17 102-8 Information on employees and other workers Sustainability performance 61 102-9 Supply chain Creating value throughout the life cycle of aluminium 12-13 102-10 Significant changes to the organization Constellium acquired the remaining 49% stake in Constellium-UACJ ABS, and its supply chain LLC (CUA) in January 2019, making it fully owned by Constellium. 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Our Sustainability Targets for 2020 37 Our worldwide Code of Employee and Business Conduct sets out the standard of behavior we expect from our employees: https://www. constellium.com/sustainability/downloads/policies-codes-conduct 102-12 External initiatives We are a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact 15, 59 Memberships 73 102-13 Membership in associations Memberships 73 Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker CEO Interview 14-15 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Governance 18-19 Our Sustainability Targets for 2020 37 Using materiality assessments to build action plans 40-41 Engaging in greenhouse gas emissions reduction 52-53 Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms CEO Interview 14-15 of behavior Governance Policies 18-19 Achieving ASI Certification 49 Ensuring sustainable purchasing 50 UNGC membership 15, 59 Our worldwide Code of Employee and Business Conduct sets out the standard of behavior we expect from our employees: https://www.constellium. com/sustainability/downloads/policies-codes-conduct 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about Governance; 18-19 ethics Constellium's Integrity hotline is an independent service that provides a means for employees to anonymously and confidentially report violations of the Code of Conduct as well as other unethical, illegal or irresponsible dealings via phone or web-form 24/7. The hotline is available in all local languages. All concerns are documented by the external hotline operator and shared with the assigned case manager in the respective country for investigation and resolution. In 2019, we recorded 27 claims via the Hotline. All cases from 2019 have been investigated and closed. Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019 67 Standard Description Cross reference/Additional information Pages Governance 102-18 Governance structure Governance 18-21 Stakeholder engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Governance 18-19 Using materiality assessments to build action plans 40-41 Memberships 73 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 97% of the employees at our non-U.S. locations are covered by collective agreements. Approximately 42% of U.S. employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Governance 18-19 Using materiality assessments to build action plans 40-41 Achieving ASI Certification 49 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Governance 18-19 Using materiality assessments to build action plans 40-41 Making every effort for our customers 43 Achieving ASI Certification 49 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Governance 18-19 Our Sustainability Targets for 2020 37 Using materiality assessments to build action plans 40-41 Reporting practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial All entities owned by Constellium and all operating joint ventures statements controlled by Constellium during reporting year 2019. This includes all sites mentioned on pages 16, 29, 31, and 33 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries Using materiality assessments to build action plans 40-41 In 2017, we renewed and broadened our previous materiality assessment performed in 2014 to identify the issues that matter most to Constellium and our stakeholders. Our sustainability targets are aligned with this vision. See pages 38-39 of our 2017 Business and Sustainability Performance Report for more, available at https://www.constellium.com/sites/default/ files/constellium_business_and_sustainability_report_2017-200718.pdf 102-47 List of material topics Using materiality assessments to build action plans 40-41 See pages 38-39 of our 2017 Business and Sustainability Performance Report for more, available at https://www.constellium.com/sites/default/ files/constellium_business_and_sustainability_report_2017-200718.pdf 102-48 Restatements of information Past energy and GHG data were amended to account for identified 53, 64 reporting errors and to reflect a revision of emission factors. Overall impact on published data is limited to less than 2% for scopes 1+2 and below 1% for energy use. 2018 waste data disclosed in 2019 was found to be overestimated and 66 was corrected to account for reporting errors. 102-49 Changes in reporting None 102-50 Reporting period About this report 74 102-51 Date of most recent report Issued in 2019. Available on our website’s sustainability section at https://www.constellium.com/sites/default/files/constellium_business_ and_sustainability_report_2018_3.pdf 102-52 Reporting cycle About this report 74 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report About this report 74 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Standards Core option 102-55 GRI content index GRI content index 67-72 102-56 External assurance Constellium’s non-financial performance statement (déclaration de 74 performance extra-financière), received its first audit from an independent third party, PwC. The audit verified our compliance with the provisions of the French Commercial Code (article R. 225-105), along with the accuracy of the information provided, such as key performance indicators and measures taken to address risks (article R. 225-105 I, 3, and II). In this report, we indicate the data reviewed by PwC with footnotes throughout the text, and with for the tables and graphics. About this report 68 Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019 PERFORMANCE REPORT Standard Description Cross reference/Additional information Pages GRI 103 Management approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Using materiality assessments to build action plans 40-41 boundary In 2017, we renewed and broadened our previous materiality assessment performed in 2014 to identify the issues that matter most to Constellium and our stakeholders. Our sustainability targets are aligned with this vision. See pages 38-39 of our 2017 Business and sustainability performance report for more, available at https://www.constellium.com/sites/default/ files/constellium_business_and_sustainability_report_2017-200718.pdf 103-2 The management approach and its components Governance 18-19 Our Sustainability Targets for 2020 37 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Governance 18-19 Using materiality assessments to build action plans 40-41 GRI 205 Anti-corruption 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related Our Internal Control Department continues to carry out fraud and to corruption corruption risk assessments in 2019 using an internal questionnaire at key sites. Site Risk Champions assess their level of risk regarding fraud and anti-corruption and follow-up mitigation plans as defined in their site's roadmap. 205-2 Communication and training on anti-corruption Governance Policies 19 policies and procedures We communicate and train our Executive Committee and employees on anti-corruption through our Code of Conduct (CoC) training. Please refer to page 19 for our CoC training rate. In 2019, a special session on anti-corruption with the Executive Committee was conducted. Training was conducted by our legal department with our sales team in Shanghai, China, and the purchasing and sales teams in Issoire, France. The finance teams in Bowling Green, United States and Děčín, Czech Republic were trained by our Internal Audit department. We have included anti-corruption principles in our Supplier Code of Conduct for our business partners, and clauses in contracts with our customers. We have also put a due diligence process in place for business partners. 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption None recorded during the reporting year and actions taken GRI 301 Materials 301-2 Recycled input materials used Average recycled aluminium input of 38% in 2019, of which 20% was pre64 consumer scrap and 18% post-consumer scrap. GRI 302 Energy 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Sustainability performance 64 302-3 Energy intensity Energy efficiency metrics are disclosed on page 48 and the Energy 48 efficiency section of the Sustainability Performance section. 64 Principle of metrics is explained in the energy performance section 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption a. Total energy savings: 1,342 TJ b. Savings by energy source: fossil fuels 815 TJ; Electricity 527 TJ c. Baseline year is 2015 d. Use of internal calculation tool to assess what energy would have been used in the corresponding year by applying the 2015 energy/t ratio of each production unit and applying where necessary a correction factor to account for changes in product mix. 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products For automotive and aerospace applications, we account for the reduction in and services a product's life cycle energy requirements due to the energy savings from using our aluminium products, compared to reference materials such as automotive steel or previous generations of aerospace aluminium alloys. An estimate based on life cycle assessment calculations leads to savings of over 30,000 TJ for products delivered in 2019, throughout their lifetime. We plan to further expand this assessment in the future with a more complete coverage of our product range. We based our assumption on an estimate of mass saved in automotive and aerospace applications and used data from our LCA tool, following the ISO14040-44 standard. Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019 69 PERFORMANCE REPORT Standard Description Cross reference/Additional information Pages GRI 303 Water and Effluents 303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource a. Use of water is mainly concentrated on cooling operations during metal casting 49 (primarily) and rolling activity. Quality could be managed through the use of water treatment systems at higher costs. b. Use of water is being handled within the scope of our ISO14001 certification. We also check the status of water risks using the online Aqueduct tool that we last ran in 2020. We plan to update this on a regular basis. c. We request our key suppliers to be assessed regarding their sustainability performance, including water-related issues. Water-related aspects are also included in the scope of audits performed at suppliers' premises that are expected to be at higher risk. We aim to have 100% of our key and higher risk suppliers assessed by 2020. Along with other partners of the aluminium value chain, we engaged in the Aluminium Stewardship Initiative (ASI), which built a standard for responsible aluminium. Water management issues are included in the ASI standard that was defined at the end of 2017. d. There is currently no specific water-related goal. We rely on local environmental management to handle water-related topics as a function of local conditions (water availability and quality, local stakeholders such as environmental or water agencies, regulations...) 303-2 Management of water Water discharge management is done according to local regulations and our own 65 discharge-related impacts water management policy, and is included in the ISO14001 certification scope of our plants. 303-3 Water withdrawal a. Sustainability performance 65 b. In 2019, water withdrawal from areas with water stress, according to the WRI Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas, was 19.9 megaliters. In all cases, the water source was municipal water. c. All displayed numbers relate to freshwater. No “other water” source was used. d. No assumptions used, data was collected from sites’ environmental management and consolidated in central database. 303-4 Water discharge Sustainability performance 65 303-5 Water consumption We considered water consumption volumes as water volumes released to a 65 different water type (e.g. groundwater released to surface water). a. Sustainability performance. All volumes are to be considered except those sourced from surface water. b. In 2019, water withdrawal from areas with water stress was 19.9 megaliters. In all cases, the water source was municipal water. c. No significant water storage change. d. Only four of our sites are concerned; their water consumption only accounts for 0.09% of our total consumption. Their production processes do not use water (no cooling water, no surface treatment, etc.). GRI 305 Emissions 305-1 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Engaging in greenhouse gas emissions reduction 52-53 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Engaging in greenhouse gas emissions reduction 52-53 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Engaging in greenhouse gas emissions reduction 52-53 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) None recorded during the reporting year 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides (SOx), and Sustainability performance 66 other significant air emissions GRI 306 Effluents and waste 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination Sustainability performance 65 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Sustainability performance 66 306-3 Significant spills No significant spills recorded in the reporting year GRI 307 Environmental Compliance 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws We have eight ongoing cases of non-compliance, some require investment and time to and regulations be addressed. We are closely following those cases and working to resolve them. GRI 308 Supplier environmental assessment 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using Ensuring sustainable purchasing 50 environmental criteria GRI 401 Employment 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover Sustainability performance 62 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that Part-time workers have pro-rata benefits of full-time employees; temporary are not provided to temporary or part-time workers are not eligible for the same benefits. Some selected benefits related to employees health insurance are granted depending on seniority. 70 Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019 PERFORMANCE REPORT Standard Description Cross reference/Additional information Pages GRI 402 Labor Management relations 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational The minimum notice period changes depending on the country of operation and is changes based on local regulations. We follow the rules of the country in question GRI 403 Occupational health and safety 403-1 Occupational health and safety management Environment, health and safety 24 system a. We have a policy requesting our sites to be certified by ISO 45001/OHSAS 18001 b. The policy and certification scope cover employees and workers who are not employees but whose work and/or workplace is on Constellium premises. 403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, Environment, health and safety 24 and incident investigation Reinforcing our culture of safe behavior 44 403-3 Occupational health services Environment, health and safety 24 403-4 Worker participation, consultation, 100% of our sites have workforce representation in health and safety committees and communication on occupational health and safety 403-5 Worker training on occupational health and Environment, health and safety 24 safety Reinforcing our culture of safe behavior 44 403-6 Promotion of worker health Environment, health and safety 24 Our objective is to prevent work-related diseases and to promote employee health. Many of our sites offer health programs such as flu vaccinations, fitness classes, eye testing, and other benefits. Most of our locations have an Employee Assistance Program to support our employees dealing with personal concerns and stress. Some sites provide such support through training, union representatives, or regular team discussions on the topic. 403-7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational health Environment, health and safety 24 and safety impacts directly linked by business Reinforcing our culture of safe behavior 44 relationships 403-8 Workers covered by an occupational health and Environment, health and safety 24 safety management system Reinforcing our culture of safe behavior 44 76% of our sites are ISO 45001/OHSAS 18001 certified 403-9 Work-related injuries Environment, health and safety 24 Reinforcing our culture of safe behavior 44 Sustainability performance 60 GRI 404 Training and education 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee Sustainability performance 62 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular More than 65% of our employees receive regular performance reviews. The performance and career development reviews professional grade employees receive annual reviews of performance and career development through the global HR platform, SuccessFactors. Performance review for non-professional grade employees is managed on a site-by-site basis. GRI 405 Diversity and equal opportunity 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Sustainability performance 62-63 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration Sustainability performance 63 of women to men GRI 406 Non-discrimination 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective In 2019, our Integrity Hotline recorded four claims alleging incidents of actions taken discrimination. The claims were investigated by the local case officers, and the results of the investigation were reviewed by our Compliances Committee. In each of the four cases, there was no evidence to support the alleged claims of discrimination and thus they were subsequently closed. GRI 407 Freedom of association and collective bargaining 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to Our Human Rights Policy & Labor Practices includes the right to freedom of freedom of association and collective bargaining association and collective bargaining, and our operations are located in countries may be at risk where such risks are not significant. 97% of the employees at our non-U.S. locations are covered by collective agreements; approximately 42% of U.S. employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. Ensuring sustainable purchasing 50 GRI 408 Child labor 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for Our Human Rights Policy & Labor Practices includes this essential right and is incidents of child labor implemented through our Code of Conduct. Ensuring sustainable purchasing 50 GRI 409 Forced or compulsory labor 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for Our Human Rights Policy & Labor Practices includes incidents of forced or compulsory labor this essential right and is implemented through our Code of Conduct. Ensuring sustainable purchasing 50 Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019 71 PERFORMANCE REPORT Standard Description Cross reference/Additional information Pages GRI 412 Human rights assessment 412-1 Operations that have been subject to human Celebrating diversity 51 rights reviews or impact assessments Since the end of 2018, we have conducted human rights risk assessment workshops at 12 of our sites: Nanjing, Singen, Neuf-Brisach, Děčín, Levice, Žilina, Muscle Shoals, Ravenswood, White, Van Buren, Bowling Green, and San Luis Potosí. In April 2019, we organized a global workshop with leadership from different key functions to discuss these risks. It produced a Constellium human rights heat map which was presented to the Executive Committee. 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or Celebrating diversity 51 procedures The principles of our Human Rights Policy & Labor Practices have been incorporated into our Code of Conduct. Employees are thus trained on human rights during Code of Conduct training. We also communicate human rights principles through our internal magazine, “LIVE”, distributed 19 to all employees in local languages. 412-3 Significant investment agreements and contracts Ensuring sustainable purchasing 50 that include human rights clauses or that Human Rights Principles are explicitly mentioned in our Supplier Code of underwent human rights screening Conduct, available at https://www.constellium.com/sustainability/ downloads/policies-codes-conduct GRI 413 Local communities 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, Supporting our communities 46 impact assessments, and development programs GRI 414 Supplier social assessment 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social Ensuring sustainable purchasing 50 criteria 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and Achieving ASI Certification 49 actions taken Ensuring sustainable purchasing 50 GRI 415 Public policy 415-1 Political contributions None – it is our policy to not make any political contributions. GRI 416 Customer Health and Safety 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the None recorded during the reporting year health and safety impacts of products and services GRI 417 Marketing and labeling 417-1 Requirements for product and service • Sourcing of raw material: 100% of our products comply with conflict information and labeling minerals regulations and Constellium communicates the corresponding information on our website (https://www.constellium.com/sustainability/ downloads/disclosure-and-certifications). • Content with substances that might produce an environmental or social impact and safe use of the products and services: 100% of our semiproducts (cast, rolled, or extruded) are covered by corresponding Manufacturer Safety Data Sheets, available on our website (https://www. constellium.com/sustainability/downloads/material-safety-data-sheets). Constellium also complies with REACH regulations, which covers the majority of our production. • Disposal of products and environmental and social impacts: we communicate, advocate, and engage in promoting even higher recycling rates for aluminium in all products. 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product None recorded during the reporting year and service information and labeling 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning None recorded during the reporting year marketing communications GRI 418 Customer privacy 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches None recorded during the reporting year of customer privacy and losses of customer data GRI 419 Socioeconomic compliance 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations Significant fines and non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with in the social and economic area laws and regulations: none recorded during the reporting year 72 Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019 PERFORMANCE REPORT Memberships Participates in projects and Associations Has positions in governance committees Aluminium Association (AA) Member Board of Directors, Executive Committee Member Yes Aluminium France Member of the Board Yes Aluminium Stewardship Initiative (ASI) Member of Standard Committee Yes Alupro Member of the Board Yes ARPAL, Spain Member of the Board No Association Française des Entreprises Privées (AFEP) No Yes Association of the United States Army (AUSA) No No Can Manufacturers Institute No Yes Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) No No European Aluminium Executive Committee Member, Member of the Packaging Yes Group Board and Member of the Automotive & Transportation Chair of several committees Group Board European Aluminium Foil Association (EAFA) Member Yes Every Can Counts Executive Committee Member Yes Fédération des Forges et Fonderies Yes Yes France Aluminium Recyclage (FAR) President Yes France Industrie Member No Gesamtverband der Aluminium Industrie (GDA) Member of the Board Yes La Boîte Boisson (BCME) No Yes Latas de Bebidas Yes Yes Metal Packaging Europe (MPE) No Yes Recal Foundation Poland Board member Yes Swiss Aluminium Association (alu.ch) Board member Yes Syndicat National des Fabricants de Boîtes, No Yes emballages et bouchages Métalliques (SNFBM) United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) No No Wirtschafts Grosshandel Metallehalbzeug (WGM) No Yes Wirtschafts Vereinigung Metalle (WVM) Member of the Board Yes Wirtschaftsvereinigung der Metalle Member of the Board No Forward-looking statements Certain statements contained in this report may constitute forward-looking disruption resulting from the global COVID-19 pandemic; the inability to statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform meet customer demand and quality requirements; the loss of key Act of 1995. customers, suppliers or other business relationships; the capacity and effectiveness of our hedging policy activities; the loss of key employees; This report may contain “forward-looking statements” with respect to our levels of indebtedness which could limit our operating flexibility and business, results of operations and financial condition, and our opportunities; and other risk factors set forth under the heading “Risk expectations or beliefs concerning future events and conditions. You can Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 20-F, and as described from time to identify forward-looking statements because they contain words such as, time in subsequent reports filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange but not limited to, “believes,” “expects,” “may,” “should,” “approximately,” Commission. “anticipates,” “estimates,” “intends,” “plans,” “targets,” “likely,” “will,” “would,” “could” and similar expressions (or the negative of these terminologies or The occurrence of the events described and the achievement of the expressions). expected results depend on many events, some or all of which are not predictable or within our control. Consequently, actual results may differ All forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties. Many risks materially from the forward-looking statements contained in this report. We and uncertainties are inherent in our industry and markets, while others are undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement more specific to our business and operations. These risks and uncertainties as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as include, but are not limited to: market competition; economic downturn; required by law. disruption to business operations, including the length and magnitude of Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019 73 About this report Reporting period Data Financial year 2019 The data included in this report has been the (January 1, 2019 to December 31, 2019) object of an audit from a third party, PwC, as part of Constellium's non-financial performance statement. Date of publication The audit verified our compliance with the provisions June 2020 of the French Commercial Code (article R. 225-105), along with the accuracy of the information provided Report scope (article R. 225-105 I, 3, and II). PwC is not responsible The data or financials relate to Constellium for assuring our compliance, nor that of our products worldwide falling within the scope of consolidation at and services, with other applicable legal and December 31, 2019. regulatory provisions. We have specified the data reviewed by PwC in this report. Report content The content of this report is based on our Disclosure business data and the results of our dialogue with This report covers 2019 business and sustainability stakeholders, the Global Reporting achievements and was developed before the 2020 Initiative Standards: Core option and other Covid-19 crisis. Content, including business and sustainability ratings and rankings. market updates, EHS and sustainability policies and related action plans, does not take into account Global Reporting Initiative the impact and consequences of this pandemic GRI Standards: Core option on our business. Assurance Contact This report has been prepared in accordance with the communications@constellium.com or GRI Standards: Core option and maintains a code of sustainability@constellium.com reporting as advised by GRI. Coordination: Corporate Communications Department and Sustainability Council. Design and production: Angie Credits: ©Getty Images/Tetra Images, ©Getty Images/Guillaume Chanson, ©Getty Images/Moazzam Ali Brohi, ©iStockphoto.com/ Paket, ©iStockphoto.com/TimAwe, ©iStockphoto.com/obewon, ©iStockphoto.com/koosen, ©iStockphoto.com/Thomas-Soellner, ©iStockphoto.com/JoZtar, ©iStockphoto.com/letoosen, ©iStockphoto.com/lena_serditova, ©iStockphoto.com/AntonMatveev, ©iStockphoto.com/amygdala_imagery, ©iStockphoto.com/claudio.arnese, ©iStock/typhoonski, ©iStockphoto.com/Rockfinder, ©iStockphoto.com/den-belitsky, ©Adobe Stock/ake1150, ©Shutterstock/Brenda Carson, ©Unsplash.com/jpvalery, ©Unsplash.com/ steeeve, ©Unsplash.com/williambout, ©Constellium, ©Courtesy/Patrick Allard/REA, ©Hubert Raguet 74 Constellium Business and Sustainability Performance Report 2019 www.constellium.com
