UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2020 Communication of Progress Content 01 Statement of Continued Support .................................................................................. 3 02 About Wasafiri ............................................................................................................... 4 03 Description of Actions ................................................................................................... 5 Appendix: Wasafiri’s Corporate Policies ................................................................................. 10 WASAFIRI A think-tank and consultancy helping leaders and organizations tackle humanity’s toughest problems We work with leading institutions to establish the collective and adaptive response needed to tackle complex problems. Bringing together multi-cultural teams with deep technical expertise, Wasafiri has worked across Africa in the fields of agriculture, conflict, climate change, food systems, social protection and nutrition. Our expertise lies in research, strategic advisory, partnership development, policy and project design. “Wasafiri helped establish the cross-sector collaboration that is now improving Africa’s agricultural economies.” Boaz Keizire, Head of Policy, Alliance for a Green Revolution in Africa. WASAFIRI COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2020 2 01 Statement of Continued Support By Ian Randall, Co-founder and Chair of the Board To our stakeholders Wasafiri celebrates its ten year anniversary this year and I’m proud to say that throughout our ten-year history we have upheld the principles in the UN Global Compact. We are a global organisation using systems-based approaches to generate positive impact at scale; we have an international team working with a wide range of clients and partners, in diverse locations, on a variety of topics. To do this well and to do this responsibly, we have a set of policies and precedents, along with Wasafiri’s “Simple Rules”, which align with the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact and guide our actions. I am pleased to confirm that Wasafiri reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Yours sincerely, April 2020 “I’m proud to say that throughout our ten-year history we have upheld the principles in the UN Global Compact” Ian Randall, Wasafiri Co-Founder and Chair WASAFIRI COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2020 3 02 About Wasafiri Who we are We are an institute and consultancy helping leaders and organisations tackle some of the world’s most complex problems. Our name, Wasafiri, means “travellers or explorers” in Swahili, and was inspired by the phrase, “Traveller, there is no path, we make the path as we walk together.” Founded in 2010 by a Rwandan, a Zambian, a Briton and an Australian, we established Wasafiri as a professional home for people committed to the lifelong adventure of tackling humanity’s toughest problems. Our work We work across sectors on issues including Covid-19, conflict and governance, food insecurity, inclusive growth and climate change. Our mission is to equip leaders and organisations with the knowledge and resources needed to drive system change at scale, through powerful systems-based approaches to generate new insights, strategies and partnerships. B-Corp We’ve always believed that businesses, of all sizes, have a powerful role to play in tackling humanity’s toughest problems. Playing this role means delivering value to all of our stakeholders, rather than simply maximising profit for our owners. And the B-Corp certification provides a global standard against which we are held to account for our ideals. We became a B-Corp in early 2018 and in August 2019 we were honored by B-Corp as a “2019 Best for the World” Company. Our people Our staff and consultants form a global community of brilliant advisors, systems-thinkers, researchers, facilitators and practitioners. Working out of our offices in the UK, Kenya and the USA, they are brought together for their adventurous spirit, commitment to tackling complex problems and track record of delivering change. As at 1 April 2020 there are 17 Wasafiri employees and we have worked with approximately 100 consultants on a wide range of projects. WASAFIRI COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2020 4 03 Description of Actions Simple Rules, Policies and Precedents Over time Wasafiri has developed a suite of materials which is intended to inform and guide colleagues, associates and contractors on their legal obligations and expected behaviours. This suite comprises Wasafiri’s Simple Rules, corporate policies and precedents, and they stem from legislation and Wasafiri’s culture. 1. Simple Rules The Wasafiri team created the “Simple Rules” which are reviewed annually. The Simple Rules are intended to help Wasafiri colleagues make quality decisions, but they are not prescriptive; they speak to the work culture at Wasafiri. WASAFIRI’S SIMPLE RULES 1. Learn as we go (can I help us do this better?) this is about quality, accountability, and all of us helping all of us to do the best work we can all the time 2. Serve the problem Wasafiri exists to create change, we will do our best work when we keep focused on the problem we are trying to serve and not just our own or our clients’ interests 3. Be disciplined with domains and precedentsWe are all responsible to seek out the precedents that already exist and work with domain owners to create new precedents or when we wish to break or change existing ones. 4. Ubuntu we are in this togetherus, clients and the communities we serve 5. Take responsibility for our financial health understand and make decisions informed by our financial health 6. Take responsibility for our own and our planet's health our physical, mental and environmental well-being matters. 7. Act with an intention of transparency would you be happy for your clients, colleagues and the world in general to know about this action / decision? 2. Corporate polices Corporate policies are ways of working that are non-negotiable. They are public commitments of how we operate to ensure high ethical standards and legal compliance. Our corporate policies are: • Agreed by the board which meets quarterly. • Once written they are unlikely to change significantly. • Sent to each employee with their contract. • Staff contracts reference the policy documents, point to the website, and include a statement that the person has read and committed to them. A list of our corporate policies is provided in the appendix. WASAFIRI COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2020 5 3. HR Precedents HR precedents are contractual arrangements; they have elements that are driven by legislation (and therefore have to be followed) and elements that are internal precedents which are guidance, rather than legislation. In 2019, Wasafiri conducted a comprehensive review and update of our policies and precedents. The table below demonstrates how our Simple Rules, Corporate Policies and HR Precedents support the UN Global Compact Ten Principles: Human Rights UNGC Guidance Wasafiri’s related corporate policy • Ensure workers are provided safe, suitable and • Harassment and Anti-bullying sanitary work facilities • Whistle blowing • Protect workers from workplace harassment, • Health, Safety and Security including physical, verbal, sexual or psychological (HSS) Policy harassment, abuse or threats • Take measures to eliminate ingredients, designs, defects or side-effects that could harm or threaten human life and health during manufacturing, usage or disposal of products Our staff and associates work in shared office space, from home (by choice) or in the field when conducting research. Prior to each field visit and work-related travel, we conduct a project risk assessment, which considers the risk and likelihood of violence-related threats, operational threats and health and well-being threats. Based on the outcomes of each risk assessment, we undertake the appropriate mitigation measures. In the period March 2019 to April 2020: • We completed 15 Project Threat Assessments that determine the risk of each new project. • We completed 23 Risk Assessments for 4 of our high risk projects. • We tracked 11 incidents and 16 Near Misses across the business. • We had zero reported incidents of workplace harassment. WASAFIRI COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2020 6 Labour UNGC Guidance Wasafiri’s related corporate policy • Ensure that the company • Anti-corruption & bribery does not participate in any • Safeguarding form of forced or bonded labour • Anti-Terrorism and Money Laundering • Comply with minimum wage • Anti-Slavery and Human Trafficking Policy standards • Conflict of Interest • Ensure that employment• Harassment and Anti-bullying related decisions are based on relevant and objective • Whistle blowing criteria • Data Protection • Health, Safety and Security (HSS) Policy 1. Diversity indicators as at 1 April 2020 The Wasafiri team is small but diverse and each co-worker brings a unique skillset. On 1 April 2020 there were 17 Wasafiri employees. Number of employees by location (normal place of work) Kenya Office 10 UK Office 6 USA Office 1 % Gender by office Kenya Office 60% female UK Office 50% female USA Office 0% female % Gender by seniority Board 17% female Leadership team 33% female (including Managing Director) All staff 53% female WASAFIRI COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2020 7 % Breakdown by age 18 – 24 years old 0% 25-34 years old 35% 35-44 years old 47% 45 years old and above 18%. Number of employees, by ethnicity1 per location Kenya Office 5 White 5 Black-African UK Office 6 White 0 Black-African USA Office 1 White 0 Black-African Number of employees, by ethnicity2 by seniority Board 4 White 2 Black-African Leadership Team 9 White 0 Black-African All staff 10 White 5 Black-African Disability None of Wasafiri’s employees are physically disabled 2. Salaries & bonuses All Wasafiri employees are paid monthly in arrears. Staff salaries are reviewed annually and increased in line with local inflation and according to individuals’ performance. Staff participate in regular performance reviews with their line management. 1 Definitions taken from the UK Government’s “List of Ethnic Groups” 2 Definitions taken from the UK Government’s “List of Ethnic Groups” WASAFIRI COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2020 8 Environment UNGC Guidance Wasafiri’s related corporate policy • Avoid environmental damage via regular maintenance of • Health, Safety and production processes and environmental protection system Security (HSS) (air pollution control, waste, water treatment systems, etc.) Policy • Ensure emergency procedures to prevent and address • Climate and accidents affecting the environment and human health Environment • Minimize the use and ensure safe handling and storage of chemical and other dangerous substances In our B-Corp capacity we acknowledge that there is a climate emergency3 and we are committed to becoming carbon neutral in the financial year 2019/2020, by taking a number of steps: • Reducing our work-related flights, where alternative transport is feasible and safe, and • Offsetting our necessary work-related flights, in partnership with UK-based “C-Level Carbon Offsets”. Anti-Corruption UNGC Guidance Wasafiri’s related corporate policy • Assess the risk of corruption when • Anti-corruption & bribery doing business • Anti-Terrorism and Money Laundering • Mention “anti-corruption” and/or • Conflict of Interest “ethical behavior” in contracts with business partners • Whistle blowing • Ensure that internal procedures support • Data Protection the company’s anti-corruption • Health, Safety and Security (HSS) Policy commitment All staff and consultants receive copies of our corporate policy on “Anti-corruption and bribery” and anti-corruption and bribery training is an integral part of all staff and consultant induction training. Between 1 April 2019 and 31 March 2020 Wasafiri had no incidents of bribery or corruption. 3 Read more about B-Corp’s advice on the climate emergency here WASAFIRI COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2020 9 Appendix: Wasafiri’s Corporate Policies A list of Wasafiri's corporate policies is provided below. They were approved by the Wasafiri Board in June 2018 and August 2019. They apply to all Wasafiri staff and associates, namely: staff, consultants, board members, or anyone working for or representing Wasafiri. These policies are developed to ensure Wasafiri staff and associates comply with basic requirements with regards to specific areas of ethical and legal best practice. What you won’t find is a comprehensive ‘how to’ list for every ethical decision that might be required to be taken. This is because we expect everyone who is part of Wasafiri to behave in a way that is legally and ethically sound, and as such these policies provide a minimum standard for a limited range of issues. Corporate Policies include: 1. Anti-corruption & bribery 2. Safeguarding 3. Anti-Terrorism and Money Laundering 4. Anti-Slavery and Human Trafficking Policy 5. Conflict of Interest 6. Harassment and Anti-bullying 7. Whistle blowing 8. Data Protection 9. Health, Safety and Security (HSS) Policy 10. Climate and Environment Wasafiri asks all staff and associates: • To read and ensure they understand the policies and ask any questions they may have. • To stick within the requirements of these policies all the time every time. • To help hold all staff and associates accountable to maintain these policies, including reporting any concerns they may have about intentional or unintentional breaches of these policies. • To provide feedback on these polices to help Wasafiri grow and ensure these policies remain fit for purpose. • To seek support, a second opinion and share with others when they need support with a decision. WASAFIRI COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2020 10 Together, we can tackle humanity’s toughest problems. Ikigai House, General Mathenge Drive, Spring Valley, Nairobi, Kenya Africa The Dock, Wilbury Villas, Brighton, BN3 6AH, United Kingdom Europe The Collider, 1 Haywood St., Asheville, NC 28801, USA North America enquiry@wasafirihub.com | www.wasafirihub.com We are committed to ethical and environmental best practice. For further information, please see here. WASAFIRI COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2020 11
