2019 Integrated Annual Report With our years of expertise and success, we are ready for the next 70 years TSKB AT A GLANCE STRATEGY, PERFORMANCE AND EXPECTATIONS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ASSURANCE LETTERS AND CERTIFICATES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES GRI INDEX To access the PDF copy of the TSKB 2019 Integrated Annual Report, scan the QR code in your browser. www.tskb.com NAVIGATION ICONS GENERAL ASSEMBLY MEETING AGENDA The navigation symbols below are used ORDINARY GENERAL ASSEMBLY MEETING AGENDA DATED 26.03.2020 within the report to depict the links between 1Commencement, constitution of the Meeting Presidency in accordance with Bank’s strategy, capitals and key performance the Articles of Association of the Bank and delegation of authority to the Meeting indicators. Presidency for the execution of the minutes of the General Assembly. 2Review and discussion of the Annual Reports of the Board of Directors and Environmental Financial Capital Independent Auditor Reports regarding the accounts and transactions of the Bank within the year of 2019. Impact 3Review, discussion and approval of the balance sheet and profit and loss statements of the Bank for the year of 2019. Human Capital 4Approval of the appointment of the members of the Board of Directors substituting the members leaving their post until the date of the General Assembly. ABOUT THE REPORT 5Release of the Members of the Board of Directors. 6Approval of the Board Resolution regarding the determination and allocation of the Value Natural Capital profit generated in 2019. 7Determination of allowance for the Members of the Board of Directors. Created for QUALIFICATION, PERIOD AND SCOPE OF THE REPORT LEGISLATION AND COMPLIANCE TO THE REGULATORY FRAMEWORK Intellectual Capital 8Election of the Independent Audit Firm 9Presentation of the information regarding the donations made within the year and Sustainable TSKB shares its 2019 performance with Integrated Annual Report including its This report is prepared in compliance with the International Integrated determination of the upper limit for donations to be made within the year 2020. 10Authorization of the Members of the Board of Directors for the transactions and Inclusive January 1 – December 31, 2019 Annual Report of the Board of Directors. The Reporting Framework recommended by IIRC and Core Option of GRI Reporting depicted in Articles 395 and 396 of the Turkish Commercial Code. Social Capital 11Presenting information regarding the transactions within the scope of Article 1.3.6. Development report is issued on a bank-only basis and excludes the operations of TSKB Guidelines published by Global Reporting Initiative. Content of the of the Corporate Governance Principles of the Capital Markets Board. subsidiaries. The Bank does not deliver report is compiled in accordance with any operations abroad. The report only the content determination methods CONTENTS reflects the operations In Turkey. described in GRI standards, mainly with Your comments are invaluable. We would like to continue disclosing transparent materiality analysis. and reliable information for our stakeholders. TSKB AT A GLANCE Investment CAPITAL CLASSIFICATON APPROACH Please do not hesitate to share your ideas TSKB reviews, analyses and reports the Performance disclosures are presented regarding our report on how we can further improve our disclosure, via info@tskb.com.tr. 4 5 Corporate Profile Vision, Mission, Values in Human update outputs of its operations, its mainly in the context of “GRI Standards” plans and targets to its stakeholders indicators, while progress reporting 6 8 Capitals/Value Creation Model Key Performance Indicators and Ratios Resources based on the capitals classification principles of United Nations Global 10 Milestones from 1950 to 2019 proposed by International Integrated Compact which TSKB committed in 2010 Audited 12 Firsts&Innovations Reporting Council (IIRC) with an are taken into consideration. Information Box non-financial 13 Awards&Achievements integrated point of view. information 14 Chairman’s Message 2019 Integrated Annual Report of TSKB, 16 CEO’s Assessment Information from Information that CONTENT OF THE REPORT which is listed on Borsa Istanbul, is in other reports or releases can be accessed via Internet STRATEGY, PERFORMANCE AND EXPECTATIONS Stakeholder TSKB’s oriented contribution to the inclusive and sustainable development compliance with the minimum annual reporting requirements of Banking Strategic Plan 24 Bank’s Strategy 26 Stakeholders and Materiality Analysis Dialogue is reviewed with its economic, social and environmental dimensions and analyzed Regulation Surveillance Association (BRSA) and Capital Markets Board (CMB) 32 External Factors in different parts of the report. legal frameworks. CAPITALS PUBLICATION FORMAT OF THE AUDIT 38 Financial Capital REPORT TSKB 2019 Integrated Annual Report TSKB solidifies its impact via active participation 60 Human Capital Accessibility of the report by all of and independent audit reports were in the efforts of global initiatives and stock exchange indices. 70 Natural Capital 88 Intellectual Capital Contribution to the stakeholders is essential and subject to assurance audit by Güney indispensable for TSKB. Therefore, the Bağımsız Denetim ve SMMM A.Ş. 98 Social Capital 104 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT UN Sustainable report is produced with an environment(Ernst&Young, EY). It was also subject friendly approach and shared on-line. to limited assurance audit by PwC in 130 ASSURANCE LETTERS AND CERTIFICATES Development The report can be accessed through terms of non-financial information. Public Disclosure Platform and www. Furthermore, TSKB takes audit from FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES 142 Independent Auditor’s Audit Report, Unconsolidated Statements and Goals (SDGs) tskb.com. BSI under ISO14001 certification for a Notes for the year ended December 31, 2019 Sustainable Management System and 306 Independent Auditor’s Audit Report, Consolidated Statements and under ISO 14064 certification regarding Notes for the year ended December 31, 2019 the calculation and verification of greenhouse gas emissions from 473 GRI INDEX operations. GRI 102-46 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 1 TSKB AT A GLANCE STRATEGY, PERFORMANCE AND EXPECTATIONS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ASSURANCE LETTERS AND CERTIFICATES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES GRI INDEX TSKB AT A GLANCE 4 Corporate Profile 5 Vision, Mission, Values 6 Capitals/Value Creation Model 8 Key Performance Indicators and Ratios 10 Milestones from 1950 to 2019 12 Firsts&Innovations 13 Awards&Achievements 14 Chairman’s Message 16 CEO’s Assessment Turkey’s first private development and investment bank, TSKB, will be 70 years old in 2020 Strong contribution to Turkish Economy via Corporate Banking, Investment Banking and Advisory business lines Pioneer of sustainability and inclusiveness TSKB AT A GLANCE STRATEGY, PERFORMANCE AND EXPECTATIONS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ASSURANCE LETTERS AND CERTIFICATES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES GRI INDEX CORPORATE PROFILE VISION, MISSION, VALUES TSKB, celebrating its 70th year in the Turkish banking sector in 2020, was established in Istanbul in 1950 as Turkey’s TSKB’S SUBSIDIARIES OUR MISSION OUR VISION first private development and investment bank with the initiation of the World Bank and the Central Bank of Turkey, Yatırım Finansman Securities and with the share ownership of commercial banks. TSKB Real Estate Appraisal Is to focus on creating value for the inclusive Is to be the business partner that TSKB Real Estate Investment Trust TSKB’s headquarters is located in Istanbul, operating with TSKB Sustainability Consultancy (Escarus) and sustainable development of our country stakeholders consult and prefer as the first 322 people as of the end of 2019. The Bank has a nonthrough the financing and consultancy choice towards the economic, environmental operational branch in Ankara. solutions powered by our experience in and social development of Turkey. As Turkey’s first and largest investment bank, TSKB has Since its establishment, the Bank has been providing also played a significant role for the development of the development and investment banking as an increasing contribution to promoting sustainable capital markets with its operations in this area starting well as the visionary approach and wellgrowth, development and the transformation of the long before the establishment of the CMB and BIST. established international collaboration manufacturing economy in Turkey with its extensive TSKB guides companies on their growth journeys with knowledge through its corporate banking, investment its services such as public offering, brokerage of debt initiatives we maintain. banking and advisory services capacities which it offers to instrument issuances and merger/acquisition advisory, a wide range of customers. and it offers an investment banking experience to its customers at international standards. With its 70 years TSKB, which does not collect deposits due to its status of knowledge and expertise, TSKB aims to enhance the of being a development and investment bank, obtains added value it offers to the business world and all actors qualified and themed global funds within the scope of of development by restructuring the sector-specific its long-standing partnerships that it has developed with advisory services it provides to the real sector and public supranational finance institutions, development finance institutions. Given its qualified advisory teams consisting institutions (DFI) and international finance institutions. of financial advisors, engineers and economists; the Bank The Bank also creates additional resources with the OUR VALUES provides effective solutions in the fields of development, borrowing instruments it issues in the international transformation and sustainability to the companies debt capital markets. TSKB channels these funds to the operating in Turkey’s locomotive sectors. investments projects and for the working capital needs of PIONEERING SOLUTION-ORIENTED the corporates to maintain the sustainable development TSKB, which works in synergy with its subsidiaries in Turkey. operating in the fields of real estate, capital markets and • We create long-term value for customers, society • We provide flexible, fast and efficient solutions in sustainability, carries forward the expertise it offers to the and the future of our country through a visionary order to optimally meet our clients’ expectations and TSKB provides medium to long-term financing products perspective and innovative services. needs. country’s sustainable economic development. tailored to sustainable investment projects in different • We keep a close eye on international banking • We are prudent about the quality of the work we do sectors with a wide range of options, particularly TSKB’S SHAREHOLDING STRUCTURE (%) practices and lead our sector as a pioneer with our and resolute in fulfilling commitments. corporate loans and project financing. The Bank also increases its sphere of influence by offering loans to SMEs, initiatives. • Knowing that we are the leaders in our job, we take exporters and to the refugee impacted regions to support responsibility to act timely and swiftly at each stage 50.9% 40.7% HUMAN-FOCUSED without a need for any prior guidance. workforce imbalances. through financial leasing and Isbank Free Float and Other factoring companies, commercial banks and participation banks within the scope of wholesale banking (APEX • With a human-oriented approach for a qualified RELIABLE&RESPECTFUL banking). economic growth, we contribute to employment, • We build trustful and respectful relations with all our equal opportunities and social development through stakeholders. Distinguishing itself in the finance sector with its unique inclusive banking solutions. • We never compromise on a fair, accountable, banking model which provides solutions to tackle with the • We make business decisions together based on transparent and ethical banking approach, and the threat of climate change and supports the transition to a low-carbon economy as well as extending sustainabilityreasonable common-mind. contemporary rules of corporate governance. themed loans, TSKB’s support for investments such as • We value team success over individual success. • We create value for sustainable development through renewable energy and resource efficiency, environmental • We work in harmony both within the Bank and with an environment-friendly banking approach, and take protection, women empowerment, occupational health the organizations we cooperate. responsibility to leave future generations a world to and safety and access to inclusive finance accounts for • We never discriminate among our employees. live in. three quarters of its total loan portfolio. TSKB also stands • We protect the rights of employees and ensure they out with its commitment to measure the environmental always have equal opportunities. and social risks of all investment projects regardless of the Vakıfbank • We contribute to employees’ professional and amount. Having undersigned many of the leading good 8.4% personal development and encourage them to take practices in the fields of sustainability and inclusiveness the initiative. in the Turkish finance sector for the last 20 years, TSKB has TSKB stock is traded on BIST Stars under the ticker “TSKB” with a free been the bank which issued the first green bond in Turkey float ratio of 38.6%. TSKB’s registered capital ceiling is TL 4,500 million and its surrounding region. whereas its paid-in capital is TL 2,800 million as of 2019 year-end. The shareholdings of the Bank’s Board Members, Auditors, Chief Executive Officer and Executive Vice Presidents are negligible. GRI 102-5, 102-7 4 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 5 TSKB AT A GLANCE STRATEGY, PERFORMANCE AND EXPECTATIONS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ASSURANCE LETTERS AND CERTIFICATES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES GRI INDEX CAPITALS/VALUE CREATION MODEL MISSION VISION TSKB, operating in a dynamic environment which entails diverse external factors, creates permanent value for Turkey and its stakeholders. MACROECONOMIC SECTORAL AUTHORITIES’ REGULATIONS AND OTHER DEVELOPMENTS DEVELOPMENTS REGULATORY CHANGES FACTORS OUR ARE PROCESSED WITH AND TRANSFORMED INTO VALUE TO SHARE WITH OUR STAKEHOLDERS. CAPITALS… “INFORMATION BANKING”… INPUTS OUTCOMES SUSTAINABLE AND INCLUSIVE DEVELOPMENT FINANCIAL CAPITAL FINANCIAL CAPITAL Diversity of funds and sound liquidity Provision of mediumand long-term funds Investment and APEX loans: 78% of the loan book 17.8% CAR 78% Share of investment Access to state-guaranteed funds 16.1% ROTE and APEX loans Robust capital CORPORATE 4.2% NIM Sustainable financials BANKING ADVISORY HUMAN CAPITAL SERVICES HUMAN CAPITAL Investing in employees Equal opportunities Management staff: female 49%, male 51% 54% Social benefits Total Staff: female 54%, male 46% Ratio of female Employee clubs Participation rate for satisfaction survey: 87% employees INVESTMENT Turnover ratio*: 2% BANKING Average training hours per employee: 39 NATURAL CAPITAL Evaluating environmental and social impact in lending processes NATURAL CAPITAL Well integrated sustainability appproach Zero carbon banking Neutralizing annual carbon footprint of 14.4 million tons 74% Sustainability focus in lending Technical, Financial and Sectoral Share of sustainability Share of sustainability-themed loans: 74% Experience 100% renewable energy usage&zero carbon banking themed loans BİST Sustainability Index constituent INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL Strong Capability in Environmental and Multi-disciplined evaulation and analysis capacity Social Evaluation Sectoral expertise Ability to develop themes and products in line Sound Portfolio Structure INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL with client needs Accumulation of know-how enabling tailor-made High-Calibre Human Resources and 479 TSKB Economic Research publications 61 advisory projects 479 TSKB Economic advisory services Synergetic collaboration with subsidiaries Expertise Research publications Strong subsidiaries with diverse sectoral expertise Innovative funding products and new themes Effective Risk Management Sustainability reporting SOCIAL CAPITAL Value Creation in Synergy with Inclusiveness approach integrated into the Bank’s mission Subsidiaries SOCIAL CAPITAL Well-rooted and effective communication with stakeholders Strategic Approach Active participation to working groups of international platforms Increasing support to women employment 1.450 Additional women Social responsibility projects The Women Stars of Tomorrow, educational support fund employment Sharing experience in various platforms Capability of Effective Capital Allocation 875 additional employment via last 3 years APEX loans Support to ventures and innovation Raising awareness via #Equal Steps, digital platform * Turnover ratio among high performance employees GRI 201-1, 203-2 6 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 7 TSKB AT A GLANCE STRATEGY, PERFORMANCE AND EXPECTATIONS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ASSURANCE LETTERS AND CERTIFICATES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES GRI INDEX KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS AND RATIOS TSKB’S PORTFOLIO OF PRODUCTS AND SERVICES KEY INDICATORS (TL million) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 CORPORATE INVESTMENT ADVISORY Total Assets 20,735 24,002 28,910 38,298 42,000 BANKING BANKING SERVICES Loan Portfolio (Gross) 13,735 17,371 22,344 27,935 31,424 Shareholders’ Equity 2,489 2,928 3,535 4,719 5,667 LOAN PRODUCTS THAT PRODUCTS AND SERVICES THAT PRODUCTS AND SERVICES Net Profit 407 476 596 661 702 CONTRIBUTE TO SUSTAINABLE CREATE TAILOR-MADE VALUE DRIVEN BY “INFORMATIONDEVELOPMENT OF TURKISH FOR ITS CLIENTS BASED BANKING” FINANCIAL RATIOS (%) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 ECONOMY Corporate Finance Economic Research Return on Tangible Equity* 17.4 17.5 18.8 17.8 16.1 Corporate Loans • Advisory and intermediary • Macroeconomic Advisory Return on Assets 2.2 2.1 2.3 2.0 1.8 • Industrial investments services for equity IPOs • Export Strategy and Complexity Capital Adequacy Ratio 14.9 14.3 17.1 16.2 17.8 • Energy and resource efficiency • Intermediary services for bond Atlas * Tangible Equity(TE) = Shareholders’ equity – MtM valuations of FVOCI portfolio • Environmental investments issues • Sectoral Panorama • Renewable energy • Mergers&Acquisitions advisory • ESG Advisory • Sustainability Investments • Training Services TOTAL ASSETS SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY • Women’s employment Money and Capital Markets (TL million) (TL million) • Occupational health and safety Advisory Services Financial Advisory Services • Health Sector Investments • International sale transactions • Financial Analysis Services 42,000 5,667 38,298 • Education Investments • Block sale transactions • Financial Planning and Strategy 4,719 • SME Finance via Wholesale • Valuation advisory • Restructuring Services 28,910 24,002 3,535 Banking (Apex Loans) • Liquidity provision • M&A Support Services 20,735 2,928 • SME Finance • Capital Markets Advisory • Training Services 2,489 • Export Finance • Market making services • Working Capital Finance • Market advisory services Engineering and Technical Advisory Services Project Finance Derivatives • Technical Analysis and Due 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 • Energy Generation and • Forwards Diligence Distribution • Options • Project Management Advisory LOAN PORTFOLIO NET PROFIT • Logistics • SWAP Operations • Operational Excellence (TL million) (TL million) • Transportation/Infrastructure • Caps&Floors • Environment, Climate, • Public-Private Partnership • Swaptions Sustainability 31,424 702 27,935 661 Projects • Energy and Efficiency Advisory 596 22,344 • Mergers&acquisitions 476 17,371 407 • Syndication loans 13,735 Other Loan Products • Financial leasing • ECA loans • Trade finance loans 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 CAPITAL ADEQUACY RATIO RETURN ON TANGIBLE EQUITY RETURN ON ASSETS (%) (%) (%) 17.1 17.8 18.8 2.2 2.3 16.2 17.4 17.5 17.8 2.1 14.9 16.1 2.0 14.3 1.8 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 GRI 102-7, 201-1 GRI 102-2 8 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 9 TSKB AT A GLANCE STRATEGY, PERFORMANCE AND EXPECTATIONS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ASSURANCE LETTERS AND CERTIFICATES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES GRI INDEX MILESTONES FROM 1950 TO 2019 2010’s TSKB began to focus on renewable energy and energy Based on its experience in sustainable development, in international markets. Establishing close relationships efficiency projects in the 2010s, and has played an TSKB engages in a key project in 2017 and cooperates 1950’s with European and Japanese financial institutions, instrumental role in combatting climate change and with Escarus, a TSKB subsidiary, to coordinate the TSKB significantly increased its funding resources. TSKB meeting Turkey’s ever-increasing demand for energy. Turkish Ministry of Development project called Founded with the mission of supporting the also played an active role in the preparation of Turkey’s “Due Diligence for Turkey Under the UN Sustainable development of Turkey’s private sector, TSKB has Privatization Master Plan and served as an advisor for the After the 2008 global financial crisis, interest rates Development Goals”. achieved several significant breakthroughs in privatization of the state-owned cement plants. fell sharply across the world, creating a need for new development and investment banking. These include banking products and services. Thanks to its vast In 2016, TSKB takes a major step in social inclusion securing mediumand long-term loans, providing 1990’s experience in this area, TSKB began to provide clients obtaining a special resource to finance investments on technical support to project sponsors, and conducting an array of new, competitive investment instruments, occupational health and safety in Turkey in addition preliminary studies for the formation of the capital TSKB further expanded its investment banking such as capital-protected and guaranteed products. to the investments by firms that observe gender market in Turkey. During the same period, TSKB was business while continuing to develop and diversify its Meanwhile, the Bank continued to add value for its equality in working environment and support women’s the only bank capable of supplying foreign currency cooperation relationships with international banks. stakeholders by taking on key roles in Turkey’s electricity employment. loans needed to finance imports. It was also the only TSKB signed long-term foreign currency and interest distribution privatizations, asset purchase&sale organization handling cash sales of foreign currencies rate swap agreements with international financial financing, acquisition financing, bond issues, and public Opening a new chapter on women’s employment within released under the Marshall Plan. institutions. It also provided consulting services to the offerings. During this time, TSKB introduced new types its social responsibility projects for sustainability which European Bank for Reconstruction and Development of loans under the themes of sustainable tourism and it has implemented since early 2000s, TSKB takes key 1960’s (EBRD) in Uzbekistan. In addition, the 1990s was a resource efficiency. The Bank continued its operations steps to empower the women employees of tomorrow period of successful initial public offerings for TSKB. for resource diversification via Eurobond issues. in terms of education and equal opportunities. TSKB introduced many innovative practices throughout Leading the establishment of over-the-counter the 1960s. The Bank issued, underwrote and guaranteed Undertaking ongoing initiatives and improvements to bond and securities markets, the Bank became even In 2018, TSKB secures the largest fund ever in its history. company bonds and carried out its first initial public ensure full compliance with all applicable international more effective after the Istanbul Stock Exchange was The loan agreement worth USD 400 million signed offerings of shares from its own portfolio of holdings. laws and regulations, TSKB is one of three companies to established, further solidified its leadership position in with the International Bank for Reconstruction and have received awards from the Corporate Governance capital markets. Development (IBRD), a World Bank Group institution, Moreover, TSKB became the first Turkish company to be Association of Turkey (TKYD) every year since 2011 under the Corporate Governance Awards. To date, TSKB under the Inclusive Access to Finance Project audited by an internationally recognized independent 2000’s accelerates TSKB’s efforts on inclusive finance, a new has won three first place, two second place, and one auditing firm, thus spearheading an approach to item added to the Bank’s mission. third place prizes. transparency and accountability in capital markets. TSKB continued working to develop and diversify its TSKB provided investment financing for Turkey’s leading international funding resources. During this period, the In 2018, TSKB breaks another new ground. The Bank Along with its membership at Long-Term Investors manufacturing facilities as well as financial support for Bank successfully tapped into international syndication becomes the first financial institution to secure funds Club (LTIC), TSKB took its place in European Long-Term the local manufacture of numerous products. These and murabaha markets for the first time. TSKB also from the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank (AIIB) Investors Association (ELTI). In 2011, TSKB has been one included the first Turkish-made buses and automobiles, began to provide an increasing volume of resources of the funding members of International Development for lending to private sector companies. This fund will automotive tires, LPG canisters, high-voltage cables, to SMEs through indirect funding in collaboration Finance Club (IDFC) as the only member from Turkey, be used to extend more loans to renewable energy, batteries, cardboard, plastics and acrylic fibers. with commercial banks and leasing companies as where in 2019 it has became a steering committee energy efficiency, transportation, energy transmission, part of “APEX Banking” operations. As the concept of member. In 2015, the Bank signed the Climate Change waste water management and telecommunications 1970’s sustainability gained prominence globally, TSKB started Summit (COP21) declaration of ELTI and IDFC for investments by the private sector throughout Turkey. to design its business processes with a sustainable transition to low-carbon economy. TSKB obtains the first loan to be provided to Turkey by In this decade, TSKB began to focus on private sector approach. TSKB became the first Turkish bank to the China Development Bank under the guarantee of investments in Turkey’s developing regions. The Bank receive ISO 14001 Environmental Management System TSKB was included in the BIST Sustainability Index, the Ministry of Treasury and Finance. TSKB restructures took an important step to diversify its funding resources certification; it also started to offer environment themed which is composed of companies listed on Borsa Advisory and Invesment Banking service models, while and obtained the first medium-term syndicated loan loans. During this decade, the Bank laid the groundwork Istanbul and perform well in terms of sustainability. successfully continues its social responsibility projects in from the European market. The Bank also carried out for its social responsibility projects that aimed to raise TSKB shares were included in the FTSE4Good Emerging the fields of inclusiveness and equality in opportunity. the first issuance of its own long-term bonds during public awareness about environmental sustainability. Markets Index by December 2016. this period. Additionally, TSKB began to provide The Bank defines its consultancy solutions as “products comprehensive research services for the manufacturing For three years in a row, TSKB won first prize for the Reinforcing its leading position in sustainability, TSKB of collective wisdom” to offer the business world as and services sectors. Eastern Europe Region at the “Sustainable Banking becomes the first Turkish bank to issue a “Green/ well as investors an increasing range of value-added Awards” program, organized jointly by the Financial Sustainable Bond” on international markets in 2016. services. TSKB successfully completes 63 consultancy 1980’s Times (FT) and the International Finance Corporation Encouraged by the interest shown in this issuance, TSKB projects in more than 20 sectors in 2018. (IFC). In addition, TSKB became Turkey’s first carbonbreaks a new global ground and issues a Subordinated TSKB continued to provide funding to the private sector, neutral bank. TSKB closely followed and monitored Sustainable Bond. In 2019 TSKB becomes one of the Founding Signatories though in a more rapid and effective manner. During this sustainability efforts across the globe. Consequently, it of the ‘Principles for Responsible Banking’ developed by period, TSKB embarked on highly important ventures became a member of the United Nations Environment Having published the first GRI-approved Sustainability the United Nations Environment Programme Finance in international relations. For example, it successfully Program Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) and publicly Report in the banking sector, TSKB transposes its Initiative (UNEP FI). issued a series of “Samurai bonds” in the Japanese announced its commitment to the UN Global Compact. trailblazing approach in sustainability to reporting capital markets, further bolstering its brand reputation and publishes the first Integrated Report in the private sector in 2017. 10 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 11 TSKB AT A GLANCE STRATEGY, PERFORMANCE AND EXPECTATIONS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ASSURANCE LETTERS AND CERTIFICATES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES GRI INDEX FIRSTS&INNOVATIONS AWARDS&ACHIEVEMENTS 1950’s • Provide technical advisory services to BANKING AWARDS 2000’s project sponsors • Extend a credit line specifically for a “sustainable environment” • Provide mediumand long-term finance to • First bank to establish a real estate appraisal company approved by Capital Investing&Financing Category Finalist (2019) Syndicated Loan Deal of the Year (2017) private sector projects Markets Board of Turkey Finance for the Future Bonds&Loans Türkiye • Provide secretariat services to the Istanbul Approach Energy Finance Deal of the Year (2019) Transport Finance Deal of the Year (Runner-Up) (2017) 1960’s Bonds&Loans Türkiye • Develop a risk-based loan pricing model Bonds&Loans Türkiye • Underwrite and guarantee corporate bond • First Turkish bank to receive a loan from the French Development Agency M&A/Acquisition Finance Second place (2019) Best Infrastructure Project Kızıldere 3 Geothermal (2016) issues Bonds&Loans Türkiye • Offer its mature bonds from its investment • First and only Turkish bank to become a shareholder of European Investment EMEA Finance Fund (EIF) Structured Loan Deal Third place (2019) Best National Resource Project Finance Yeniköy Kemerköy (2015) portfolio to public Bonds&Loans Türkiye Bonds, Loans&Sukuk Turkey • Issue its own long-term bonds • First Turkish bank having ISO14001 Certificate • First Turkish bank to calculate and offset its carbon footprint Low Carbon Hero of the Year (2019) • Have its records audited by an independent Best-Structured Finance Project/Etlik PPP (2015) Sustainable Production and Consumption Association (Süt-D) audit company • First and only Turkish bank which was awarded “Sustainable Bank of the Year Bonds, Loans&Sukuk Turkey Project Finance Deal of the Year (2018) of Eastern Europe Region” in 3 consecutive years between 2008-2010 in the Best Energy Infrastructure Deal in Europe (2011) Bonds&Loans Türkiye 1970’s event organized by Financial Times and International Finance Corporation Euromoney M&A/Acquisition Finance Deal of the Year (2018) • Promote private investment incentive in • First web portal designed under environment and sustainability themes Bonds&Loans Türkiye Best Hydroelectric Project in Europe (2011) under-developed regions Structured Loan Deal of the Year (2018) Euromoney • Mobilize funds through medium-term 2010’s Bonds&Loans Türkiye Best Equity House (2011) syndicated loans from European markets • UNEP FI and Global Compact membership EMEA Finance Natural Resources Finance Deal of the Year (2018) • Undertake major sector research services • First and only Turkish bank to be granted a membership in Long-Term Bonds&Loans Türkiye Best Clean Technology and New Energy Investor (2011) for manufacturing and service sectors Investors’ Club (LTIC) Syndicated Loan Deal of the Year (2018) The New Economy Dergisi • First and only Turkish supervisor member in in European Long-Term Investors Bonds&Loans Türkiye En İyi Aracılık Ödülü (2011) 1980’s Association (ELTI) Bond Deal of the Year (2018) EMEA Finance • Issue its own bonds in international capital • Issue 16 thematic mutual funds between 2009 and 2012 Bonds&Loans Türkiye Temiz Teknoloji ve Yeni Enerji Alanında En İyi Yatırımcı (2011) markets • Secure the first EBRD loan which aims to finance SME projects for the Best Syndicated Loan in Central and Eastern Europe Tredaş (2017) The New Economy Dergisi • Conduct manufacturer surveys among agricultural industry in Turkey EMEA Finance various sectors Best Syndicated Loan in Central and Eastern Europe Aksa Natural • First Turkish Bank to be qualified for ISO14064-1 Greenhouse Gas Verification • Provide export insurance loans from Gas Distribution and Kazancı Holding (2017) Certificate European and Japanese financial EMEA Finance SUSTAINABILITY AWARDS institutions • Restricted mudaraba loan facility with Islamic Development Bank to finance Best Infrastructure Deal Galataport (2017) • Offer advisory services in textile and other renewable energy and energy efficiency projects EMEA Finance Best Green Bond in Central and Eastern Europe (2017) sectors in cooperation with international • Become the founder member of International Development Finance Club Best Privatization Deal in the Middle East and Africa Galataport EMEA Finance advisors (IDFC) (2017) Structured Finance Deal of the Year (Winner) (2017) • Offer advisory services for the privatization • First loan agreement with KfW without any government guarantee EMEA Finance Bonds&Loans Türkiye of public cement factories • The first A+ level Sustainability Report approved by GRI (Global Reporting • Issue its short-term bonds as well as International Bond Deal of the Year (2017) Initiative) in the sector guarantee and market those of its clients Bonds&Loans Türkiye • The “first carbon-neutral concert” within the scope of the İKSV Istanbul Music • Prepare Turkey’s first privatization master Sustainable Bond Issuance of the Year (2016) Festival CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AWARDS IFR plan • Support for IDFC (International Development Finance Club)’s climate pledge • Realize the first public offering as an Green/Sustainable Bond Issuance of the Year (2016) • Assistance for ELTI (European Long-Term Investors Association)’s transition to Women Empowered Boards Special Award (2018) Global Capital underwriter low carbon economy pledge Sabancı University Corporate Governance Forum • Intermediary in the investment of Islamic Low Carbon Hero (2016) Development Bank funds in companies as • Establishment of TSKB Sustainability Committee Sustainable Production and Consumption Association (Süt-D) Company with the Second Highest Corporate Governance shareholders • Offsetting individual carbon footprints of corporate stakeholders Rating Score (2015) Low Carbon Hero (2015) • First green/sustainable bond of Turkey Turkey Corporate Governance Association (TKYD) Sustainable Production and Consumption Association (Süt-D) 1990’s • The world’s first “Subordinated Sustainable Bond” Climate Disclosure Leadership (2015) Highest Score in Multi-Stakeholder Approach For Transparency • Sign long-term foreign currency • The first Integrated Report in Turkish private sector in Corporate Reporting (2015) CDP and interest swap agreements with • Scholarship fund “Empower Through Education” for women employees of Transparency International Turkey Climate Change Leadership (2013) international banks future CDP Türkiye Company with the Highest Corporate Governance Rating Score • Provide floating-rate medium-term Turkish • Music education support project “Woman Stars of Tomorrow” (2011, 2013, 2014) One of the Top Three Banks in Sustainable Banking in Europe Lira loans to the banking sector • First financial institution securing loan facility from Asian Infrastructure Turkey Corporate Governance Association (TKYD) (2011, 2013) • Provide consulting services for ERBD in Investment Bank (AIIB) targeting private sector investments FT&IFC Uzbekistan Honor Award for Best Annual Report Print Category (2011) • “Equal Steps”, equal opportunity digital platform that emphasizes the Bronze Award -Sustainability Report Category (2012) • Management of a Risk Capital Fund Stevie Business Awards importance of equality between women and men in business life Astrid Awards provided by the European Investment Bank • Founding Signatories of the ‘Principles for Responsible Banking’ developed by Supporter of Sustainable Eco-Friendly Products and Practices (2010) • Undertake a voluntary “Risk Management Istanbul Chamber of Industry (ISO) the United Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) Review’’ supported by World Bank • First loan to be provided to Turkey by the China Development Bank under the Sustainable Bank of the Year in Eastern Europe (2008, 2009, 2010) guarantee of the Ministry of Treasury and Finance FT&IFC • 10th member of the Steering Committee of the IDFC 12 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 13 TSKB AT A GLANCE STRATEGY, PERFORMANCE AND EXPECTATIONS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ASSURANCE LETTERS AND CERTIFICATES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES GRI INDEX CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE “ TSKB, WHICH WILL CELEBRATE ITS 70TH YEAR, IS addition to enhancing Turkey’s competitive edge in the PREPARED FOR THE FUTURE. international arena. TSKB, which will TSKB, which will proudly celebrate its 70th anniversary In the coming period, we believe the environmental proudly celebrate this year, delivered a successful performance in 2019. The Bank also significantly increased its total efficiency and social interactions of sustainability will become more widespread and deeply felt within the dynamics on the back of the restructuring efforts it has recently of social and economic life. As the awareness for its 70th anniversary implemented, preparing itself even more innovatively for the future in each respective business line. environmental, social and governance principles increases in the society, companies will feel more this year, delivered With its 70 years of experience and know-how in pressure from individuals to improve their sustainability practices and further maximize their sustainability a successful the field of development and investment banking, a efforts driven by their own ecosystems, as well as competent human resource structure, the advantages independent scorings, declarations and reporting of its scale and the approach to service which it has built requirements. performance in 2019. on the basis of “Information Banking”, TSKB will continue provide a strong contribution to the sustainable With the support of its financial structure shaped under growth of Turkey’s economy in the corporate banking, a long term approach, and backed by its strong and investment banking and advisory services business trustworthy practices in lending activities, its clout in lines, will improve shareholder value and, finally, will development banking and its investment and advisory Esteemed Stakeholders, TURKISH ECONOMY RETURNS TO GROWTH IN THE create value for its stakeholders. banking services with a focus on “Knowledge-based SECOND HALF OF 2019 Banking”, TSKB will continue to bring companies closer A YEAR SHAPED BY GLOBAL TRADE AND SUSTAINABILITY REMAINS AN UNWAVERING to sustainability and contribute to their development. GEOPOLITICAL DEVELOPMENTS Having lost momentum after August 2018, the Turkish BENCHMARK FOR US economy has entered in to a growth path again starting TO THE FUTURE WITH AN “INTEGRATED” PERSPECTIVE The rise of protectionist policies in global trade and from the third quarter of 2019. TSKB, which is Turkey’s first private development and geopolitical developments were among the issues investment bank, has become a pioneering institution In today’s world, where sustainability has become shaping the global economic outlook of 2019. In Throughout the year, the financial markets were not just for sustainability but also the inclusiveness one of the milestones of the new norms, TSKB is addition to these factors; weak demand conditions, rebalanced by policies and effective regulations in the country underpinned by its systematic studies, always ready to contribute and guide our country, our subdued commodity prices and relatively low inflation implemented with a proactive approach by the ground breaking moves and success over the last industry and our stakeholders, and to be a pioneer of patterns paved the way for expansionary monetary regulatory authorities. Simultaneously, it was also 25 years in the field of sustainability. As an active development, by allocating all the capital assets it has policies by leading central banks around the world. observed that all economic actors took synchronous participant of international initiatives, the Bank is in in the most efficient and effective way. The experience While the Fed lowered its policy rate on three occasions, and collaborative steps to eliminate the effects of the process of moving its impact and contribution to a we have built during our sustainability journey, our the ECB not only cut its interest rates but also resumed the fluctuations of 2018. Strengthening the financial global scale. mission focused on “inclusiveness” in recent years, and asset purchases in 2019. Simultaneously, the central stability, these steps ensured the successful completion the integrated perspective which we have adopted, banks of many developing countries also took decisions of rebalancing process, also becoming a significant With sustainability themed loans accounting for 74% provide us the necessary energy, while our competent to lower interest rates. factor in the re-entering the growth pattern of the of the total loan portfolio, TSKB will continue to be the teams allow us to manage our business with the right Turkish economy. pioneer and guide of sustainability and inclusiveness. approach. Global liquidity conditions, which are expected to remain abundant for longer in light of expansionary A YEAR OF REASSURANCE FOR THE TURKISH THE TURKISH ECONOMY WILL STRENGTHEN Believing in collaboration, value creation and sharing monetary policies, continue to support capital flows to BANKING SECTOR FURTHER AS ECONOMIC ACTORS ADOPT this value with society, TSKB will continue to fulfil its developing countries, where economic indicators have SUSTAINABILITY mission. remained relatively stagnant recently. The banking sector has rapidly adapted to the BRSA’s guiding regulations, taking steps to eliminate During times of economic volatility, companies’ On behalf of myself and our Board of Directors, I would The Stage 1 Trade Agreement between the U.S. and uncertainties regarding non-performing loans. These competence and resilience are often tested. The recent like to thank our team, who produced this distinguished China, signed at the beginning of 2020, is expected steps were important in terms of strengthening the periods, marked by fragile geopolitical environment performance in 2019. to help ease the pressure driven by the protectionist confidence of both the domestic and international and economic volatility, have once again demonstrated policies on the global economy. investors. the importance and indispensability of sustainability in Regards, all of its aspects. While the majority of the loans under close classification was restructured, there has been an increase in the Through transformation, companies need to exert a predictability of the sector. As the Turkish economy strong presence and improve their resiliencies in many converges with its growth potential in 2020, I believe fields from financial planning to corporate governance. the banking sector will enter a healthy growth process. H. ERSİN ÖZİNCE As long as this transformation takes place, the sustainable development of the Turkish economy and Chairman the contribution to social welfare will improve further, in GRI 102-14, 103-2, 103-3, 203-1 14 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 15 TSKB AT A GLANCE STRATEGY, PERFORMANCE AND EXPECTATIONS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ASSURANCE LETTERS AND CERTIFICATES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES GRI INDEX CEO’S ASSESSMENT “ A YEAR WHERE THE LOAN RESTRUCTURING PROCESS WITH SUSTAINABLE FINANCING HAVING A 74% LARGELY COMPLETED SHARE OF ITS TOTAL LOAN PORTFOLIO, TSKB HAS TSKB allocated 2019 prompted the banking sector to review loan DECOUPLED POSITIVELY WITHIN THE SECTOR. US$ 1.4 billion of loans portfolios and increasingly embody its support to the macro-economy and real sector through restructuring. Climate change is the number one issue threatening the future of humanity, according to all recently published risk studies. Global warming and the unstable weather and non cash loans to Banks which have a fundamental role in the healthy functioning of the markets provided a lifeline of support events which we are frequently observing clearly indicate that climate change is happening at a great Turkish economy in to companies following the rebalancing, by fulfilling the requirements of their mission to support the real sector pace. However, the global business community and ourselves as individuals have been relatively slower 2019. under all conditions. to grasp the problem and increase our perception in taking action to tackle climate change. Governments, In 2019, the banking sector largely completed the the science community and the academic world, restructuring process of non-performing loans, and supranational initiatives, non-governmental the measures taken by the BRSA within this context organizations and the business world have to come had a positive contribution on transparency. As together quickly and take action to ensure the of December 2019, TSKB’s NPL ratio stood at 3.5% sustainability of a world where future generations can significantly lower than the sector average of 5.3%. live. Esteemed Stakeholders, TSKB CONTINUED TO OPERATE WITH ITS CAREFULLY CALIBRATED RISK ASSESSMENT APPROACH, TSKB CONTINUED TO CREATE ADD-VALUE IN 2019 Within the context of its institutional structure, scale, WHILE THE SEARCH FOR DIRECTION IN THE GLOBAL LIQUIDITY POSITION AND STRONG CAPITAL FOCUS ON THE BASIS OF SUSTAINABLE AND INCLUSIVE competencies and collaborations, TSKB is proud to ECONOMY CONTINUES, THE REBALANCING PROCESS DURING THE EXCEPTIONAL CONDITIONS OF 2019. DEVELOPMENT be a bank which adopts sustainability from opinion IN TURKEY HAS BEEN COMPLETED. to strategy and execution in other words, from end With its corporate banking, investment banking and In 2019, we continued our lending activities in line to end, and reflects it into all elements of its unique The year 2019 was marked by continued fluctuations advisory services, TSKB continued to provide a multiwith our commitments and our strong risk assessment business model. in the global financial markets, while the global faceted contribution to Turkey’s development and approach, which is unique to the Bank. macroeconomic outlook remained relatively weak. growth as well as enhancing the value it created to the Our sustainability journey, which was institutionalized economy throughout the year. Throughout the year, our new loan allocations mainly in the early 2000s, has brought us to the strong position In this conjuncture, accompanied by periodic increases focused on renewable energy, energy and resource we are in today. in vulnerability driven by geopolitical risks, the Turkish In 2019, the Bank’s total contribution to Turkish efficiency investments, as well as projects where social economy successfully completed its rebalancing economy was realized at US$ 1.4 billion through cash themes are prominent such as women’s empowerment TSKB has succeeded in becoming a role model in its process. While the subdued domestic demand and non-cash loans. Total cash loans reached TL 31.4 and projects which support employment in sector thanks to decoupling with its high performance conditions and relatively stable course of TL reflected billion while TSKB’s total asset size grew by 10% to TL 42 underdeveloped regions affected by refugee inflow. in the field of sustainability. In this process, TSKB positively to the inflation figures, the rate of CPI billion during the same period. In terms of profitability, In this context, another issue I want to stress is that we having long lasting relationship with DFIs has inflation, which had risen to 20% during 2019, ended TSKB performed in line with its 2019 targets, posting have continued our lending activities at the same pace further developed active collaborations with many the year at 11.84%. On the other hand, the Central earnings before provisions and taxes of TL 1.3 billion in even when the market followed a relatively stagnant international initiations and organizations, carrying Bank of Turkey gradually lowered its policy rate from 2019 and net earnings of TL 702 million. course in the first half of 2019, maintaining our support, its sustainable banking capacity and competencies to 24% to 12%, taking the market dynamics into account. without interruption, for projects which we find feasible. international standards. Turkish economy returned to a path of growth by the Supported by its profitability, shareholders’ equity third quarter of the year. We forecast that the Turkish increased to TL 5.7 billion, implying a 20% increase. We anticipate that the revival in loan demand, which Contributing to the United Nations Sustainable economy will record growth of around 4%, with By the end of the year, the Bank’s capital adequacy has been observed since the last quarter of 2019, will Development Goals (SDG) as part of its integrated inflation on course to be around 10% in 2020. ratio stood at 17.8%, well above the level set by the become more evident both on the corporate and development approach, in 2019 TSKB continued regulatory authority. the consumer side in 2020. Accordingly, we expect to increase its effectiveness in the International The banking sector continued to support the real the sector’s loan growth in 2020 to gain momentum Development Finance Club (IDFC); of which it is a economy in 2019. The total lending volume of the compared to the previous year. founding member and in which the world’s leading sector surged by around 7% on fx adjusted basis. development banks participate. TSKB joined the While the growth outlook of banking assets remained In 2020, TSKB will continue to support Turkish IDFC Management Committee as the 10th member. stagnant, the activities in the banking industry were economy, the real sector and its stakeholders under Compatibility with the Paris Climate Accord and the mainly focused on maintaining its liquidity position and any circumstances, with its qualified financing options, SDGs are among the IDFC’s current priorities. TSKB will asset quality to support sustainable growth. investment banking operations and wide-reaching continue to be influential and increase its contribution advisory services, as it always has throughout its 70 year in both fields, domestically and internationally. history. GRI 102-14, 103-2, 103-3, 203-1 16 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 17 TSKB AT A GLANCE STRATEGY, PERFORMANCE AND EXPECTATIONS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ASSURANCE LETTERS AND CERTIFICATES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES GRI INDEX CEO’S ASSESSMENT 500 400 TSKB signed a risk sharing agreement with the EBRD to account, and respond to the expectations of our rapidly US$ US$ provide EUR 100 million of funding to the private sector. expanding customer group to the highest level. This project is the EBRD’s only risk sharing cooperation initiated in Turkey which envisages the two banks With our Corporate Banking, Investment Banking million million working together to allocate investment and working and Advisory Services segments, we are determined TSKB secured USD 500 million of resources in 2019 TSKB issued sector’s first Eurobond of 2020 capital loans to companies operating in Turkey based to contribute to the investment and development on the equal sharing of risk. journeys of the business world with a more focused perspective and to increase our effectiveness in these A SUCCESSFUL RETURN TO THE EUROBOND MARKET areas. Another major development of 2019 for TSKB was its Designating all of its goals and decisions with an participation in the UNEP FI Principles For Responsible integrated perspective on the focus of sustainability, As this report was in the process of preparation, TSKB As a development bank we will continue to expand our Banking as a founder signatory. Designating the the Bank contributes to the SDGs not only with its successfully undersigned sector’s first Eurobond contribution to a producing economy with the social functions and responsibilities of the banking industry services offered in lending and advisory segments, but issuance of 2020. This transaction which amounted to responsibility projects we undertake; to support the for building the sustainable future, these principles are also through in-house sustainability implementations, USD 400 million with 5 years maturity and fixed interest society we live in, the women, men, and young people aimed at ensuring the sector’s compliance with the supporting Turkey’s transition to a low carbon economy. rate was ten times oversubscribed attracting demand who will carry us to the future, the air we breathe, our SDGs and the Paris Climate Change Accord. from approximately 300 investors from different regions natural resources, our cultural riches, our artists and all SUSTAINABLE COOPERATION WITH INTERNATIONAL on a global scale, 45% of which are new investors. This of our values which we wish to sustain. Spending dedicated efforts on Turkey’s sustainable FUNDING SOURCES development is a sign of trust in our value proposition. development since its foundation, TSKB undertakes Our most vital asset in the journey we have successfully all of its activities within the framework of globally Having strong and traditional bonds with international We believe this strong demand also supports our carried out for 70 years has always been our qualified accepted sustainability principles. We fully believe that finance institutions, TSKB secured USD 500 million of anticipation that 2020 will be full of positive prospects human capital. In our view, investment in people means the UNEP FI Principles For Responsible Banking will resources in 2019 mostly in the medium to long term for our country and the Turkish banking sector, as we investing in success and the future. And, we are well strengthen our commitments in this field and bring a within the context of resource development efforts. once again thank all of our international stakeholders aware that the competition can only be won by hosting different dimension. for their trust to TSKB and its story. the most competent human capital. Having signed a syndication loan agreement Approximately three quarters of our Bank’s total on June 10th, 2019 with the participation of 12 banks, TO THE FUTURE WITH MORE VIGOROUS STRUCTURE TSKB will continue to allocate its capital arrays in an loan portfolio consists of different sustainability and TSKB secured USD 177 million in funding from IN OUR 70TH YEAR… efficient and effective way to maintain its sustainable inclusive financing themed loans directed to areas such international markets. The second major funding contribution to Turkish economy, as well as to leave a as renewable energy, energy and resource efficiency, activity was realized with the China Development Bank 2020 will have unique prominence for us, thanks to liveable world heritage for future generations. environmental investments, women’s employment, (CDB). TSKB secured a USD 200 million loan from the being TSKB’s 70th year. occupational health and safety, and supporting CDB under the guarantee of The Ministry of Finance and I would like to thank all the members of the large investments in the underdeveloped regions. Treasury. Having become the first guaranteed long term We have recently undertaken significant structuring, TSKB family which I sincerely believe will carry our funding given from the CDB to Turkey, this loan will be development and transformation projects in our bank forward to many more successful years, and our In TSKB’s point of view, every project funded is used to support industrial production, SMEs, energy, organizational structure and business model, especially stakeholders with whom we have created value for a cornerstone that contributes to the national infrastructure, health and education projects. in the field of advisory. By interpreting the expertise and our country, and I express my gratitude to our Board development and global sustainability, beyond being a experience we have accumulated over 70 years from of Directors for their support and valuable strategic mere banking transaction. Another loan agreement was signed with the French a new and vigorous point of view, we aim to offer an guidance. Development Agency (AFD), with which TSKB is in long increasing number of services to the Turkish public and term cooperation within the framework of sustainability. private sector for sustainable development. Best regards, USD 85 million of funding secured from the AFD will be utilised to finance investments undertaken by In line with the responsibility defined in our founding companies which support gender equality and female mission, we have transformed the competencies we employment in the working environment. have gained in our country’s development journey since 1950, taking the requirements of the time period into SUAT İNCE Board Member and CEO 18 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 19 TSKB AT A GLANCE STRATEGY, PERFORMANCE AND EXPECTATIONS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ASSURANCE LETTERS AND CERTIFICATES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES GRI INDEX STRATEGY, PERFORMANCE AND EXPECTATIONS Strategic Plan 24 Bank’s Strategy 26 Stakeholders and Materiality Analysis 32 External Factors Capitals 38 Financial Capital 60 Human Capital 70 Natural Capital 88 Intellectual Capital 98 Social Capital Strong value creation capability in short, medium and long term periods Deep rooted relationships with development finance institutions Contribution to Turkey’s transition to low carbon economy and combat with climate change Strong synergy of affiliates elevating the value created TSKB AT A GLANCE STRATEGY, PERFORMANCE AND EXPECTATIONS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ASSURANCE LETTERS AND CERTIFICATES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES GRI INDEX STRATEGIC PLAN TSKB’S STRATEGY CREATING VALUE FOR INCLUSIVE AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT TSKB takes stakeholder priorities and expectations in the process of determining the focus areas. TSKB determines its focus areas and corporate priorities by considering the needs and demands of the stakeholders. TSKB is the only private development and investment bank in Turkey. TSKB offers corporate banking, investment banking and advisory services with high added value to become a This approach turns into a strategy that enables the Bank to offer products and services that are preferred business partner, its stakeholders first consult for the economic, environmental compatible with the dynamics and client expectations of the market. and social development of Turkey. TSKB’S FOCUS AREAS HOW TSKB DIFFERENTIATES ITSELF IN THE COMPETITION? Developing various themes in line with Turkey’s development plan and extending relevant funds TSKB has three main elements that differentiates itself in the competition Supporting Sustainable Development Goals with Corporate Banking, Investment Banking and Advisory services and considers these as drivers on its way to fulfilling its strategic goals. Closely monitoring environmental and social impacts from project finance Strong corporate governance and efficient risk management Strengthening international cooperation and developing new cooperation opportunities Producing and offering advisory solutions powered by well-established technical, financial and sectoral experience SUSTAINABLE TSKB is the only private DEVELOPMENT Maintaining synergistic cooperation with group companies development and investment FINANCE bank delivering services in not Conserving the robust financial structure and a healthy asset quality only sustainable development Retaining high-calibre human capital INVESTMENT BANKING finance but also advisory services and investment banking. ADVISORY SERVICES TSKB takes its objectives, competences, strategic goals and market conditions into consideration while planning the future. At the same time, the Bank evaluates its current and future funding needs within the scope of the capitals model and pays utmost care to ensure its strategies and funds which are blended at the right scale in its executive plans. TSKB has access to long-term LONG-LASTING funds from development finance COOPERATION WITH institutions with whom it has also DEVELOPMENT built long-lasting and effective FINANCE INSTITUTIONS ABOUT THE FUTURE cooperation in the field of cofinancing. TSKB continues its journey in line with its strategic focuses on: 1A healthy balance sheet growth 2A robust capital structure 3High efficiency 4Sustainable profitability 5 Market ve stakeholder expectations TSKB provides tailored banking UNIQUE APPROACH TO As TSKB moves into the future, it continues to invest in competences that will enable it to remain strong and competitive. solutions to its clients, according CLIENT NEEDS To that end, the Bank will continue to develop new strategic cooperation ventures and invest in human capital. to their needs and demands. The compatibility of stakeholder priorities and TSKB strategy is discussed in the Stakeholders and Materiality Analysis section on page 27 of the report. 22 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 23 TSKB AT A GLANCE STRATEGY, PERFORMANCE AND EXPECTATIONS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ASSURANCE LETTERS AND CERTIFICATES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES GRI INDEX STRATEGIC PLAN STAKEHOLDERS AND MATERIALITY ANALYSIS STAKEHOLDER COMMUNICATION and to share information on stakeholder priorities in RESULTS AND EVALUATION OF THE MATERIALITY ANALYSIS its reporting process. Preferably, the Bank repeats its As Turkey’s only private development and investment stakeholder analysis every other year, considering its The identified priorities and materiality matrix of the TSKB management and all stakeholders as a result of the stakeholder bank, TSKB’s primary stakeholders and issues are also long-term strategy and business model, combining analysis study are presented on the following page. differentiated within the framework of its strategy the developments that took place within the year and of creating value for inclusive and sustainable additional stakeholder views as complementary inputs The Materiality Analysis underlines that TSKB is taking into account the perspectives of sustainability and responsible banking development. in the conducted stakeholder analysis study. The results to contemplate with the qualified development of the country, growing in harmony with all stakeholders of the stakeholder analysis study forms the basis of the TSKB has sustainable and effective communication Bank’s integrated reporting activities. and interaction with its stakeholder groups. The PRIMARY MATERIAL ISSUES MODERATE MATERIAL ISSUES Bank communicates with its stakeholders through Issues to be reported in this integrated report was (For TSKB and other stakeholders) (For TSKB and other stakeholders) different platforms. As a result of its long-term business determined based on the stakeholder analysis model and deep-rooted relations with international conducted in the last 2 months of 2018. development finance institutions and financial Supporting employee “learning curve” Managing the environmental and social 1 4 institutions, TSKB’s key stakeholder groups do not show During the study, unlike the Bank’s previous stakeholder development impacts of the Bank significant changes from year to year. analysis, qualitative research methods were used for the first time in addition to quantitative analysis methods. Developing projects on maintaining and 2 5 Producing development-oriented projects Attaching tremendous importance to maintaining improving the Bank’s financial performance a sustainable dialogue with its stakeholders, TSKB For the stakeholder analysis study, sample groups were benefits from the feedback it receives as a valuable and identified from stakeholder groups and face-to-face Supporting the financing of combat and 3 8 Supporting employment guiding input in many subjects and fields such as; interviews were conducted with these groups. During adaptation to climate change • Determining strategic priorities, face-to-face interviews, questions were asked about • Creation of policies, stakeholders’ perceptions and attitudes regarding Supporting financing of women’s 6 Effective risk management 9 • Development of social responsibility projects TSKB. These questions also helped to understand their empowerment personal motivation and priorities. TSKB’S STAKEHOLDERS Full compliance with corporate governance Strengthening relations with international 7 10 The quantitative research phase of the stakeholder principles fund providers • Shareholders analysis was conducted through a questionnaire • Clients survey that included questions to analyse stakeholders’ Note: Considering that it is more accurate to evaluate both the financing of combat against climate change and the financing of climate change adaptation which are both prioritized by the TSKB Management and all stakeholders, these two items are gathered under a single heading in the matrix. • Financial institutions perceptions of TSKB and their views on sustainability • Subsidiaries priorities. The questionnaire was sent out digitally to • Employees a sample group representing the TSKB stakeholder • The Banking sector universe. 6 • Regulatory Authorities • The Media As a result of the study, findings of quantitative and • NGO’s qualitative research were evaluated and analysed 5 4 2 1 • Universities together. In the light of the findings of the analysis, 3 • Suppliers face-to-face interviews were conducted with TSKB 6 Management. As a result of this evaluation, material STAKEHOLDER ANALYSIS issues of the stakeholders and TSKB Management were 4 7 Other Stakeholders assessed together and the Bank’s strategy, external and Reflecting the integrated perspective on its strategy internal stakeholder expectations were weighted to 8 and all business processes, it’s important for TSKB to construct a material issues matrix. 9 identify and determine the material issues in line with the expectations of its stakeholders. Following up on this matrix, materiality list was 10 prepared outlining stakeholder expectations. 2 Contacting all stakeholder groups within the scope of its operation cycle, TSKB regularly conducts extensive stakeholder analyses to align its strategic and material issues with the views of its stakeholders 0 2 4 6 TSKB GRI 102-40, 102-42, 102-43, 102-44, 102-47 GRI 102-42, 102-43, 102-44, 102-47, 103-1 24 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 25 TSKB AT A GLANCE STRATEGY, PERFORMANCE AND EXPECTATIONS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ASSURANCE LETTERS AND CERTIFICATES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES GRI INDEX STRATEGIC PLAN STAKEHOLDERS AND MATERIALITY ANALYSIS According to results of the Stakeholder Analysis for both TSKB and its stakeholders; In line with its focus on financing THE RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN MATERIAL ISSUES AND TSKB’S STRATEGY TSKB uses the results of stakeholder materiality analysis as an input when determining its strategy. When the results • Supporting employee development (1), sustainable development, of the materiality analysis are examined, it is seen that each of them coincides with TSKB’s focus areas and are indeed • Maintaining and improving Bank’s financial complementary to each other. performance (2), TSKB has taken concrete steps Materiality Analysis Results Related TSKB Focus Areas • Supporting the financing of the combat against and adaptation to climate change (3), towards financing efforts towards Providing employees with development opportunities Maintaining well-skilled human resources • Effective risk management (6), combatting and adaptation Developing projects on maintaining and improving the Bank’s Maintaining a strong financial structure and healthy asset • Full compliance with corporate governance principles (7) financial performance quality to climate change through its Development of different themes, especially renewable stand out as the key material issues. These results are fully in line with TSKB’s mission, core objectives and renewable energy, energy and energy, and providing funding in line with Turkey’s development plan strategies. In addition to its mission of providing a resource efficiency projects. lasting contribution to Turkey’s economic development, Supporting the financing of the combat against and Financing projects that will support the SDGs* the recently adopted understanding of sustainable adaptation to climate change banking and related sub-themes are clearly featured • Producing development-oriented projects (5) Providing advisory solutions based on deeply rooted within the Bank’s priorities, activities and objectives. • Strengthening relations with international fund technical, financial and sectoral experience providers. (10) The key priorities of the Bank’s management, which Developing innovative products considers human resources as the building block of its Management of environmental and social impacts Closely monitoring the environmental and social impacts arising from both the financing of development projects Managing Bank’s environmental and social impacts successful and sustainable performance, are to increase that arise during the financing of projects employee satisfaction through investment in human and Bank’s activities is among the priorities. In today’s Financing projects that will support the SDGs resources and training and to enable the development world, risk management requires effective management Producing development-oriented projects of its employees. of not only financial risks but also all economic, Developing innovative products environmental and social risks, which are among nonStrong Corporate Governance and Effective Risk financial risks. In this regard, TSKB constantly measures Efficient risk management In parallel with TSKB’s contribution to the Turkish Management economy, developing projects to protect and improve and monitors its performance with its sustainability Strong Corporate Governance and Effective Risk the Bank’s performance is one of Bank’s main priorities. management system and environmental social risk Full compliance with corporate governance principles Management The Bank unwaveringly continues its efforts in this area. management practices utilized for the Bank’s lending Development of different themes and providing funding in processes. Supporting employment line with Turkey’s development plan The survey also emphasizes the importance of full compliance with corporate governance principles, a The concept of financing sustainable development Financing projects that will support the SDGs major area in sustainable banking, and underlines once covers not only environmental issues but also social Development of different themes in line with Turkey’s again the importance of TSKB’s policy and practices issues. Accordingly, TSKB continues its financing Supporting financing for women’s empowerment development plan and resource provision based on fair, transparent, accountable and responsible activities to support employment and women’s banking principles. empowerment. The Bank also actively manages its Financing projects that will support the SDGs communication with international fund providers Strengthening international collaborations and increasing In line with the focus of financing sustainable simultaneously to develop new themes in these areas. Strengthening relations with international fund providers new collaborations and funding diversity in terms of development, TSKB is taking concrete steps towards the In line with its mission, TSKB will continue to support financing themes, product types and geographies priority of combatting climate change and adaptation projects to promote Turkey’s development through financing through its renewable energy, energy and three core services, including development banking, resource efficiency projects. It aims to increase the investment banking and advisory services. The list of all topics in the stakeholder analysis survey can be support it extends to efforts to combat climate change viewed on page 35 of TSKB 2018 Integrated Annual Report. by developing new products in this regard in the coming Bank’s continuous access to long-term resources from http://www.tskb.com.tr/i/content/3483_1_TSKB_2018_EFR.pdf period. development finance institutions is essential in terms of sustainability and TSKB’s business model, as well as In the stakeholder analysis, medium material issues for the value it creates. TSKB follows an approach to widen TSKB and stakeholders were identified as; the diversity of resources and effective cooperation • Managing the environmental and social impacts of with these institutions along with international finance the Bank (4), institutions while identifying its material issues and * Sustainable Development Goals • Supporting employment (8), developing its strategy in light of these issues. • Supporting financing for women’s empowerment (9), GRI 102-42, 102-43, 102-44, 102-47, 103-1 GRI 102-47, 103-1 26 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 27 TSKB AT A GLANCE STRATEGY, PERFORMANCE AND EXPECTATIONS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ASSURANCE LETTERS AND CERTIFICATES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES GRI INDEX STRATEGIC PLAN STAKEHOLDERS AND MATERIALITY ANALYSIS REFLECTION OF MATERIAL ISSUES IN THE INTEGRATED REPORT The following tables lay out which material issues are prioritized by relevant stakeholders as a result of the stakeholder analysis. Their relationship with TSKB’s strategies, the SDGs that are served and the referenced capitals with respect to Bank’s related actions are covered at the table. Section where Section where Relevant Relevant the created value the created value Material Issue Stakeholders Materiality Strategy SDG Material Issue Stakeholders Materiality Strategy SDG is described in is described in (Inside/ Outside) (Inside/ Outside) the report the report Employee development is one of the top priority issues Effective risk management approach is one of the Providing for TSKB management. TSKB considers human resources building blocks of TSKB’s strong and sustainable employees TSKB Management, TSKB Management / to be the building block of a successful and sustainable financial performance. The effective risk management with “learning Employees, Financial Institutions, performance. Employees working at TSKB and its 8 Human Capital approach is also crucial in the continuity of access to the 8 curve” Employees of Effective risk Development subsidiaries prioritize their personal and professional funds of development finance institutions in the process Financial Capital development Subsidiaries management Finance development, and have the opportunity to continuously of supporting the development of the Turkish economy. 16 opportunities Institutions, Sector grow with the projects carried out. Representatives Developing TSKB Management, TSKB manages all financial and non-financial risks with TSKB’s mission is; to contribute to Turkey’s sustainable an effective corporate risk management approach. projects for Employees, development. Maintaining and improving its strong TSKB Management Most of the financing provided by TSKB comes from maintaining Employees of Full compliance financial performance is very important towards its / Development international sources. Ensuring continous compliance Financial Capital and improving Subsidiaries / 8 Financial Capital with corporate access to foreign capital. In other words, sustainable Finance Institutions, with globally accepted corporate governance principles 8 Human Capital the Bank’s Development governance financial performance is a fundamental criterion for NGO, Media and transparency are vital in ensuring the uninterrupted Intellectual Capital financial Finance Institutions, principles TSKB. Representatives access to these resources. performance Financial Institutions TSKB Management, TSKB Management/ 7 Employees, Supporting Combating climate change and the transition to a low One of TSKB’s primary goals is to support employment Clients, Employees of the financing carbon economy is a key issue for TSKB. Performing and sustainable economic growth. The Bank contributes Development 11 Subsidiaries / Clients, Financial Capital of the combat pioneering studies on combating climate change, Financial Capital Support for to increasing employment within its own structure, Finance Institutions, Development 8 Human Capital against and renewable energy and energy efficiency, TSKB works in Natural Capital employment clients and suppliers through its activities within the NGO 13 Finance Institutions, Social Capital adaptation to cooperation with its customers in managing the risks scope of the banking service cycle and the projects it Media NGO Media climate change arising from climate change. 17 finances. Representatives Representatives Suppliers Within the scope of its mission of sustainable 5 In order to achieve sustainable development, gender TSKB Management development, it is important for TSKB to measure and equality must be ensured. It is observed that there is Managing the / Development manage every impact created. The Bank manages 6 Supporting TSKB Management a need for financing for women’s empowerment in Financial Capital environmental Finance Institutions, all kinds of environmental and social impacts arising Natural Capital financing / Development Turkey. TSKB offers gender equality-themed loans in 5 Human Capital and social Non-Governmental from its operations even negligible ones through 7 Human Capital for women’s Finance Institutions, cooperation with development finance institutions and Social Capital impacts of the Organizations internationally recognized management systems. TSKB Social Capital empowerment NGO Media embodies its support for women’s empowerment in Bank / Media has also adopted pioneering practices in the sector for 11 business and social life. Representatives the management environmental and social impacts and TSKB Management / risks, arising from financed projects. 13 Strengthening Financial Institutions, For the medium-and long-term success of TSKB, a 8 TSKB Management / relations with Development private development bank, it is important to ensure Financial Capital Finance Institutions, The aim of TSKB, which was founded to support the international Finance 7 9 interrupted access to international financial resources. Development development of the Turkish private sector, is to support fund providers Institutions, Sector Creating Financial Capital Representatives Financial Institutions, sustainable development. The investment and growth projects for 11 Natural Capital Clients, NGO/ Media projects of the private sector in Turkey are financed by/ development Social Capital Representatives, through TSKB, with themed loans and APEX banking, 17 Sector regardless of the industry and size. Representatives * Inside Stakeholders: TSKB Management, Employees, Employees of Subsidiaries ** External stakeholders: Clients, Development Finance Institutions, Financial Institutions, Sector Representatives, NGO, Media Representatives, Suppliers GRI 102-47 GRI 102-47 28 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 29 TSKB AT A GLANCE STRATEGY, PERFORMANCE AND EXPECTATIONS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ASSURANCE LETTERS AND CERTIFICATES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES GRI INDEX STRATEGIC PLAN EXTERNAL FACTORS ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS Contrary to the loss of momentum in industrial production, the slowdown in the services sector inflation fluctuated between 1.5% and 2.3% in 2019 in the United States. In the Euro Zone, inflation declined The IMF revised its 2020 growth GLOBAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS remained limited on a global scale. The PMI which from 2% to below 1% in the same period. projection for 2020 to 3.3%, stood at 53.4 at the end of 2018, dipped to 51.9 As protectionist tendencies increased worldwide… by the end of the first half of 2019, indicating the Yields on the US 10-year benchmark bond, which had marking a gradual downward The rise of protectionist tendencies in foreign trade continued buoyancy. The PMI Index had stood at 52.0 in December 2019, indicating the continuation of the risen to 3.2% in October 2018, declined to below 1.5% in mid-2019. In the same period, yields on Germany’s adjustment of some 0.4 basis in 2019 raised the downside risks on global economic outlook. While a weakening global economic outlook growth in services sector. 10-year bond declined from over 0.4% to -0.7%. This points since mid-2018. brought down commodity prices and inflationary was followed by a recovery amid expectations that expectations, the search for safe havens led bond rates A fall in commodity prices, except for gold… the bottom point may have been seen in the world Emerging economies to lead the recovery In 2020 to decline. In this environment, risk aversion gained Weakening global economic growth led to a decline economy with a recovery in risk appetite, as US 10-year growth, according to the IMF momentum and interest rate cuts from central banks in commodity prices. Brent crude oil prices averaged benchmark yields rose to 1.8% and Germany 10-year The International Monetary Fund (IMF) stated that of developed countries supported a recovery in capital US$ 64.20/bbl in 2019, 10.4% lower than the 2018 yields to -0.2%. growth in 2019 was 2.9%, some 0.7 basis points under flows, though to a limited extent. average. Likewise, having reached peak levels in 2018, the 2018 figure and the lowest growth figure since non-gold commodity prices faced a steep decline in …and rate cuts from the FED and ECB 2008-2009. On the other hand, the IMF revised its 2020 …there was a contraction in global trade volume the second half of the year. The Bloomberg Commodity Under these market dynamics, the US Central Bank growth projection for 2020 to 3.3%, marking a gradual In the January-November period of 2019, global trade Prices Compound Index’s 2019 average was 3.9% lower (the FED) started policy rate cuts in the second half of downward adjustment of some 0.4 basis points since volume contracted by 2.8% in US$ terms and by 0.5% in than the 2018 average, while the metals and energy 2019, with cuts amounting to 75 basis points, lowering mid-2018. In its report, the IMF pointed out that interest real terms compared to the same period of the previous sub-indices tumbled by 8.0% and 8.5%, respectively. the upper band to 1.75% and the lower band to 1.50%. rate cuts from central banks had partially limited the year. The weakening in foreign trade volumes in Japan However, the decision by the OPEC plus Russia group Meanwhile, the European Central Bank (ECB) cut rates downside risks, while pointing out that the recovery in and the Eurozone had a negative impact on industrial to cut daily oil production by 500,000 barrels in the first from -0.40% to -0.50%, while resuming asset purchases 2020 growth would come on the back of an acceleration production worldwide. The global industrial sector grew quarter of 2020 led to a moderate recovery in oil prices. and targeting long-term re-financing operations. Under in emerging economies outside China. by 0.8% YoY in the January-November period of 2019, these conditions, policy rates were also lowered in many considerably lower than the previous years’ averages. …leads to downward pressure in inflation and emerging economies as well. The manufacturing Purchasing Managers’ Index (PMI), interest rates… which had stood at 51.4 at the end of 2018, declined to Declining commodity prices and the vulnerabilities in 49.4 at the end of the first half of 2019, confirming the the growth outlook put downward pressure on inflation contraction. However, the index recovered to 50.1 by and interest rates. Having approached 3% in mid-2018, December 2019. WORLD TRADE VOLUME AND INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTION AVERAGE POLICY INTEREST RATE IN DEVELOPING (3-MONTH AVERAGE ANNUAL CHANGES) AND DEVELOPED ECONOMIES 06% 6 05% 5 04% 4 03% 02% 3 01% 2 00% 1 -01% -02% 0 2015 2017 2018 2019 2015 2017 2018 2019 World Trade Industrial Production Developing Developed Source: CPB, TSKB Economic Research Source: Bloomberg, TSKB Economic Research 30 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 31 TSKB AT A GLANCE STRATEGY, PERFORMANCE AND EXPECTATIONS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ASSURANCE LETTERS AND CERTIFICATES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES GRI INDEX STRATEGIC PLAN EXTERNAL FACTORS The central budget realizations in Tourism makes a strong contribution to the economy Lower global commodity prices combined with the limited volatility in the TL and the subdued 2019 reflect the measures taken A strong contribution from the tourism sector in 2019 domestic demand conditions all contributed positively to inflation dynamics in 2019 in general. led to a significant reduction in the Turkish economy’s in 2018 to support the economy, external imbalances while domestic demand stayed weaker. Moreover, exports remained strong thanks to rising interest rates and the the competitive levels of the TL, supporting the foreign demand conditions all contributed positively to Yields on the benchmark bond, having ended 2018 inflation dynamics in 2019 in general. The rate of CPI at 19.73% and increasing a little further in the first contraction in domestic demand. trade balance and the improvement in the current inflation, which stood at 20.3% at the end of 2018, half of 2019, declined to below 12% by the end of the account. Accordingly, exports increased by 2.1% in 2019 declined to a three-year low of 8.55% in October 2018, year. The USD/TL exchange rate fluctuated between compared to the previous year, while imports declined while core inflation dropped to 6.67% the lowest figure 5.15-6.25 during the year, from a rate of 5.26 at the end THE TURKISH ECONOMY by 9.1%, implying a 33.9% decline in the foreign trade in the last six years. of 2018, suggesting that the TL underwent a limited deficit. The current account turned from a deficit of US$ depreciation of 0.4% in real terms. On the other hand, A recovery in the economy from mid-2019… 28.3 billion in 2018 into a surplus of US$ 1.7 billion in While goods prices were the main reason behind the fall equities enjoyed gains of more than 20%. Having lost momentum in the second half of 2018, the 2019. The non-energy current account surplus increased in overall inflation, the improvement in services group Turkish economy started to bounce back in mid-2019. from US$ 10.3 billion in 2018 to US$ 35.5 billion in 2019. inflation was slower. However, the decline in domestic Turkish economy on course to grow close to its producer prices throughout the year confirms the potential in 2020 The economy contracted by 1.9% in the first half of 2019 The central budget realizations in 2019 reflect the easing in cost pressure. The annual rate of PPI inflation, The Turkish economy, which is estimated to have compared to the same period of previous year, while measures taken in 2018 to support the economy, rising which stood at a rate as high as 33.6% at the end of concluded 2019 with limited growth, is expected to recording 0.9% growth in the third quarter with the interest rates and the contraction in domestic demand. 2018, declined to 1.7% in October. Following that, the grow close to its potential trend growth in 2020 with recovery in domestic demand. Thus, the contraction in Tax income recorded a limited 8.3% increase in 2019 annual rate of inflation started to increase in November growth driven by domestic demand while, in contrast to the January-September period was recorded at 0.9%. while non-interest expenditures rose by 18.9%. As a and December due to the base effects. As a result, the 2019, the current account balance is expected to post a result, the budget deficit increased by 69.9% YoY to annual rate of CPI inflation rounded off the year at deficit in 2020. …thanks to the support of public spending and TL 123.7 billion, while the non-interest budget surplus 11.8% while the annual rate of PPI inflation stood at external demand of TL 1.1 billion in 2018 turned into a deficit of TL 23.8 7.4%. While global developments limit inflationary risks, food While private sector consumption and total investment billion in 2019. prices will be a parameter that must be followed closely. spending weighed down on growth throughout the …and implemented rate cuts In the presence of these dynamics, it is thought that year, public spending and external demand limited the The Central Bank of Turkey monitored the recovery The Central Bank of Turkey left interest rates on hold in the Central Bank has some further room for additional contraction in the economy. The seasonally adjusted in inflation dynamics… the first half of the year, while the volatility in financial interest rate cuts in 2020. unemployment rate increased to 13.2% in November Lower global commodity prices combined with the markets was limited throughout the year as a result of 2019 from 12.9% at the end of 2018. limited volatility in the TL and the subdued domestic the rebalancing process in the economy. In the second half of the year, the Central Bank lowered the policy rate from 24% to 12%. ANNUAL INFLATION RATES CBRT AVERAGE FUNDING RATE AND CORE INFLATION ANNUAL GDP GROWTH AND COMPONENTS 50% 30% 15% 45% 25% 10% 40% 35% 20% 5% 30% 25% 15% 0 20% 10% -5% 15% 10% 5% -10% 5% 0 J 15 0 -15% 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 A 15 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 J 15 S 15 J 16 A 16 J 16 S 16 J 17 A 17 J 17 S 17 J 18 A 18 J 18 S 18 J 19 A 19 J 19 S 19 Private Consumption Public Spending Investments Stocks Net Export GDP CPI Domestic PPI Core Inflation CBRT Average Funding Rate Source: TurkStat, TSKB Economic Research Source: CBRT, TurkStat, TSKB Economic Research Source: TurkStat, TSKB Economic Research 32 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 33 TSKB AT A GLANCE STRATEGY, PERFORMANCE AND EXPECTATIONS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ASSURANCE LETTERS AND CERTIFICATES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES GRI INDEX STRATEGIC PLAN EXTERNAL FACTORS SECTORAL DEVELOPMENTS growth in TL corporate loans, and a 22% expansion in the non-SME corporate loans. However, there was an In 2020, the positive expectations in the macro-economic conditions and the success of restructuring The banking sector recorded a higher rate of growth in 8% contraction in the FX loan volumes as a result of of loans, will create positive contribution to the asset quality. 2019 compared to the previous year. While the share corporates’ net repayments. of the foreign liabilities in the funding structure of the sector was reduced as a matter of strategic choice, the In the second half of 2019, the Central Bank has started banking sector managed to deliver solutions that would rate cuts which was followed by banks via lowering The deterioration of the asset quality, including the AUTHORITIES’ REGULATIONS AND support the economy despite the burden of worsening lending rates. In addition, given the postponed loans under close monitoring, has become a burden REGULATORY CHANGES asset quality. demand, a recovery was observed on retail and nonfor the banking sector regarding its support to the SME corporate TL loans. economy. The difficulties in collections and the Macro-Precautionary Measures Loan demand declined as a result of the changing provision costs take its toll on the banks’ lending With regard to foreign exchange transactions, the economic conditions and expectations in 2018, Loan demand is projected to remain buoyant in the first potential. banking and insurance transaction tax (BSMV) over resulting in an foreign currency adjusted loan growth of half of 2020, and loan growth in 2020 is estimated to the sales amount was put in place at a rate of 1 part 1.8%. In 2019, the loan demand relatively picked up in end up at 10-15% levels. The expected improvement in the economic conditions, per thousand with effect from May 15th 2019, while it 2019 and total loans posted a growth of 6.2%. the success of restructuring efforts and the loan growth increased to two parts per thousand with the omnibus Asset quality set to improve in 2020 may limit further deterioration in the asset bill that entered effect on December 7th 2019. On the Loan demand in 2019 was predominantly driven by The positive developments expected to be seen in quality. other hand, the BSMV rate which is normally calculated Turkish Currency (TL) loans. TL loans grew by 14.8% the asset quality will have a decisive impact on the over the sales amount was determined as zero in while FX loans shrunk by 5.6% amid an absence of FX expansion of the sector’s contribution to the economy. Despite the fluctuations in economic and market the sales of foreign exchange made to enterprises loan demand from corporations and the repayments conditions; the capital adequacy ratio, which is the holding a industrial registration certificate and for of existing loans. With regard to corporate loans, TL Since 2018, migration to loans under close monitoring main indicator of resilience of the banking sector, foreign exchange sales made to the exporters who are loans grew by 14.6% while the contraction in FXand non-performing loans have accelerated and some was strengthened by 130 basis points to 18.63% as of members of exporter unions. denominated loans limited the overall growth in large-scale loans have been restructured. The efforts of November 2019, as a result of the prudent management corporate loans to 3.9%. banking sector for restructuring of loans continues with approach adopted by the banks. The practice of bringing export prices, which were put the support of regulation revisions. into practice for 6 months in 2018, within 180 days and On a scale basis, SMEs preferred to scale back their In 2019, it was observed that the shareholders’ equity converting 80% of the export price to Turkish Lira was loans, while corporate firms other than SMEs switched As of the end of 2019, the sector’s NPL ratio stood at of private banks was supported by the accumulation extended in 2019. The practice remained in force until to TL loans from FX loans due to change in regulations. 5.29%, indicating a surge of 140 basis points compared of core equity, while the state banks’ was backed by March 3, 2020 with the amendment tabled on August In 2019, the net volume of TL loans increased by 6.3%. to 2018 year-end figure. On corporate loans side, NPL the state via subordinated debt instruments. The high 31, 2019. On the other hand, with the amendment In 2019, private banks, including TSKB, recorded a 4.9% ratio reached 5.79%, which is 180 basis points higher capital adequacy ratio will enable the banking sector to than the previous year. accelerate the loan growth in 2020. BANKING SECTOR LOANS BANKING SECTOR NPL RATIO (FX-adjusted annual growth) 18% 6% 16% 5.5% 14% 12% 5% 10% 4.5% 8% 4% 6% 4% 3.5% 2% 3% 0 -2% D 16 F 17 A 17 J 17 A 17 2.5% D 16 F 17 A 17 J 17 A 17 S 17 D 17 F 18 A 18 J 18 S 17 D 17 F 18 A 18 J 18 A 18 S 18 D 18 F 19 A 19 A 18 S 18 D 18 F 19 A 19 J 19 A 19 S 19 D 19 J 19 A 19 S 19 D 19 Source: BRSA Statistics Source: BRSA Statistics 34 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 35 TSKB AT A GLANCE STRATEGY, PERFORMANCE AND EXPECTATIONS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ASSURANCE LETTERS AND CERTIFICATES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES GRI INDEX STRATEGIC PLAN EXTERNAL FACTORS made on the last day of 2019, the time of bringing the Financial Restructuring Agreements the article in the regulation and the contracts arranged Sustainable Finance export prices to the country was increased to 270 days, The Law No. 7186 on the Amendment to the Income within the scope of these agreements, the parties will The significance and importance of sustainable finance is and the practice of converting export prices into Turkish Tax Law and Certain Laws were published in the be exempted from stamp duty, Resource Utilization another factor which has been in the spotlight in recent lira was abolished. Official Gazette dated 19 July 2019 and entered effect. Support Fund (KKDF) payments and the banking and years. International initiatives and standards developed in In accordance with Article 17 of this Law and the insurance transaction tax (BSMV). the field of sustainable finance play an important role in As set out within the context of Law No:32 on the temporary articles added to the Banking Law, the accelerating the process. Protection Of The Value Of Turkish Currency, there were framework was set for The Banks Association of Turkey Anti -Money Laundering and Counter-Terrorism a total of 22 amendments made to the Capital Flows (TBB) to prepare the Financial Restructuring Framework Financing and Sanctions The Responsible Banking Principles, published by Circular in 2019, which is the application instruction for Agreements. With the Financial Restructuring There were many developments in 2019 on a global UNEP FI in September 2019, were put into force with the use of foreign currency loans. The majority of the the signature of 130 banks from 49 countries. The EU Framework Agreements prepared by TBB as a result of scale, which led the USA to tighten its policies on has taken the lead in setting regional standards and changes were made in line with the needs of the Bank the regulation, financial restructuring implementation sanctions, while paving the way for the European Union commissioned a number of studies in this regard. The and financial institutions that intermediate in the sector was initiated for banks and financial institutions for to expand its regulations on anti-money laundering and European Commission launched a package of measures and foreign currency loans. large and small scale companies with credit debt. counter-terrorism financing. for the implementation of the fundamental actions announced in the Sustainable Finance Action Plan in BRSA Regulations and Financial Reporting The application is aimed at customers who are In accordance with national law and international May 2018. In this regard, there are efforts spent on the The ‘Regulation on the Amendment of the Regulation willing to pay their debt but are unable to fulfil their regulations, TSKB follows the national and international development of EU green bond standards, EU taxonomy on the Procedures and Principles Regarding the reimbursement obligations because of difficulty in exclusion lists and sanction decisions within the (specifically for climate change), EU climate criteria and Classification of Loans and Provisions to be Reserved for balancing their income with their spending. framework of its commitments to institutions and climate related corporate reporting criteria. Such Loans was published by the BRSA and entered into organizations which have a correspondent / resource effect. Within the scope of the amendments made with The implementation for large-scale companies with relationship. Since the Bank is obliged to carry out Social Outlook and Social Development the regulation, the proportion of loans / receivables debts of TL 25 million or more to the financial sector, exclusion and sanction checks in all its activities, it has According to November 2019 figures, Turkey’s classified as losses and for which there are no prepared within the framework of the Financial been conducting its exclusion and sanction checks unemployment rate increased by 1 percentage reasonable expectations regarding the recovery of loans Restructuring Framework Agreements, entered force on comprehensively and systematically since 2016. point to reach 13.3%. Considering an average rate of with the lifetime of the loan due to the expected default October 14, 2019, while for small-scale companies with unemployment of 5.1% throughout the OECD as of of the borrower, or the loans that set aside special debts of less than TL 25 million, the implementation The Dow Jones Watchlist system is used at TSKB, as all December 2019, the unemployment rate in Turkey provisions can be deducted from the records as of the entered force on November 8, 2019 following the exclusion and sanction lists are checked in their most appears high when compared with OECD countries. first reporting period within the context of TFRS 9. necessary approvals. comprehensive form. During the process, automatic controls are performed on the query screens with a Meanwhile, youth unemployment in Turkey increased At the same time, the disengagement application will TSKB has signed Financial Restructuring Framework wide array of data. by 0.9 percentage points to reach 24.5%. Women’s participation rate in the labour force stood at 33.9% in not result in the right to renounce receivables and Agreements for both implementations. 2019, below the global average of 47.6%. the issues related to the disengagement application Performing queries into the exclusion and sanction (indications that there are no reasonable expectations, Within the context of the same regulation, with the checks automatically on digital environment reduces The issue of gender equality, which has increasingly follow-up policies, unregistered policy, deductions, temporary article No:32 added to Banking Law No: the possible control risk that TSKB may encounter. gained importance in recent years, remained a etc.) will be explained in the footnotes of the financial 5411, indebted parties which have credit relations contentious issue in 2019.According to the 2019 Gender statements. with the banks, financial leasing companies, factoring OTHER FACTORS Inequality Index (GII) study carried out by the United companies, financing companies and other financial Nations Development Program, Turkey is ranked 66th Within the context of Regulation on Equity of Banks, of institutions defined in the temporary article which are Climate Action among 162 countries with an index value of 0.305. the general provisions, up to 125 parts per 10,000 of the operating in Turkey, and which have been specified The effects of climate change have become more visible sum of risk-weighted amounts of receivables, in which in the Framework Agreements made in accordance in daily life. In this process, climate action comes to the Non-Financial Reporting Trends the standard approach was used to determine the with the regulation published by the BRSA, may be fore simultaneously. The non-financial reporting trend, which has gained amount subject to credit risk, could be included in the restructured as a whole or in part with other borrowers momentum in recent years, continued its rise in 2019. contribution capital calculation. With the amendment in the risk group they are involved in, with the The 25th Conference of the Parties (COP25) held in Based on the figures from the 2018-2019 period, 61% of made to the Regulation on March 14th, 2018, the measures to be taken regarding the loans extended December 2019 made an overwhelming impression companies listed in FTSE 350 undertook non-financial or decision was taken not to include these amounts in the by these institutions, to enable them to fulfil their under the subject of combat against climate change, as both financial and non-financial reporting. contribution capital calculation as of January 2020. With reimbursement obligations and continue to contribute the business world, including the banking sector, closely the amendment made in December 2019, the effective to employment. followed this process and its outcomes. However, The most innovative trend in reporting is the work date of the measure was postponed until January 2022. COP25 was subject to criticism for failing to produce the undertaken in the field of reporting climate related Thus, from January 2022, general provisions will not be The procedures and principles regarding financial outcomes expected by the international agenda. financial impacts. The most prominent standard among included in the contribution capital calculation. restructuring to be made in accordance with this article these is the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). According will be determined by the Framework Agreements The discussions between the parties expecting all to 2019 figures from TCFD, 785 organizations have prepared within the framework of the provisions of the countries to set out and undertake more ambitious committed to support the TCFD initiative, which is a regulation issued by the Authority. The rulings of this targets regarding climate change and the resisting voluntary initiative focusing on reporting financial risks article will be applied for two years from the date of countries were finalized by updating the decision that caused by climate change. In addition, 36 different publication of this article. Additionally, in line with the countries should update and enhance their climate central banks and five governments stated their support framework agreements entered into in accordance with plans as the proposal of all countries to communicate for the TCFD and encouraged TCFD reporting. their climate plans in 2020. 36 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 37 TSKB AT A GLANCE STRATEGY, PERFORMANCE AND EXPECTATIONS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ASSURANCE LETTERS AND CERTIFICATES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES GRI INDEX CAPITALS 2019 FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE AND 2020 PROJECTIONS HIGHLIGHTS FROM 2019 1.4 FINANCIAL CAPITAL USD TSKB extended USD AN EXPANDING AND DIVERSIFIED NETWORK OF 1.4 billion of support to DEVELOPMENT FINANCE INSTITUTIONS WITH TSKB’S FINANCIAL CAPITAL CONSISTS OF NEWCOMERS the economy via cash PRODUCTS AND SERVICES IT PROVIDES TO billion and non-cash loans in 2019. ITS STAKEHOLDERS THROUGH ITS FINANCIAL TSKB further strengthened its strong liquidity position by signing a total of USD 475 million loan agreements, RESOURCES AND THE ADDED VALUE IT CREATES mainly medium and long-term loans, in 2019. The loan THROUGH ITS CORPORATE CULTURE WHILE obtained from the China Development Bank (CDB) USD 4.2 BILLION OF NEW LOAN LIMITS ALLOCATING THESE RESOURCES. during year was the first loan given to Turkey by CDB TSKB allocated USD 4.2 billion of cash and non-cash under the guarantee of the Ministry of Treasury and Finance. (excluding APEX) loan limits to its corporate clients CONTRIBUTION TO TURKEY’S SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT during the year and signed new loan agreements TSKB’s economic and development-oriented structure enables it to USD 1.4 BILLION OF SUPPORT TO THE ECONOMY totalling USD1.8 billion. The number of the Bank’s active evaluate and direct its financial resources towards this goal. clients has expanded by 37% in the last 3 years. TSKB’s support to the economy via cash and non-cash Since its foundation, TSKB has been constantly developing its loans in 2019 amounted to USD 1.4 billion. Total cash INVESTMENT LOANS ACCOUNT FOR 70% OF THE competencies and witnessed Turkey’s development journey in loans amount has reached to USD 650 million out of LOAN BOOK every aspect. The Bank is focused on contributing to the investment which USD 80 million was in the form of APEX loans. and development journeys of the business world in the areas of In line with its mission, TSKB focuses on investment Corporate Banking, Investment Banking and Advisory Services from A KEY PLAYER IN DEVELOPMENT AND INVESTMENT loans, which accounted for 70% of the Bank’s total loans a more focused perspective and increasing its effectiveness in these BANKING WITH ITS STRONG CAPITAL in 2019. As of the end of 2019, 22% of the total loan areas. portfolio consisted of working capital loans and APEX TSKB’s total assets expanded by 10% compared to the loans accounted for an 8% share. In this section previous year driven by the contribution of the growth Deeply-Rooted Expertise In Investment Loans in its loan portfolio, reaching TL 42 billion. Ranking 91% of TSKB’s loan portfolio is comprised of FX loans, Renewable Energy 13th in the sector in terms of its asset size, the Bank with 48% in USD terms and 42% in EUR terms. The share SMEs maintains its number two position among development of TL loans in the Bank’s total loan portfolio stood at 9%. Women’s Empowerment and investment banks. 77% of TSKB’s assets were Close Cooperation with Development Finance Institutions denominated in foreign currency (FX), and the Bank’s MEDIUM AND LONG-TERM LOANS COMPRISE 85% Strong Relations with International Financial Institutions capital adequacy ratio stood at 17.8% at the end of OF TOTAL LOANS APEX Banking 2019. Corporate Finance TSKB extends medium-term and long-term loans to its Money Markets and Capital Markets A RISK-FOCUSED AND SELECTIVE APPROACH IN clients in line with its vision to be the pioneering bank Advisor Bank LOAN ACTIVITIES in Turkey’s sustainable development. As of the end of Information Technologies and Process Improvement Projects 2019, 15% of TSKB’s loan portfolio was comprised of TSKB’s Stock Performance Commanding a 35% market share among development loans with maturities of less than one year whereas Assessment of Financial Situation, Profitability and Solvency and investment banks in long-term loans, TSKB 51% account for the loans with maturities of 5 years or 2020 Financial Projections continued to grow its loan portfolio in 2019 with a risklonger. On average, each loan has a maturity of 5.3 years oriented and selective approach. The Bank’s total gross with a size of USD 13 million. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS THAT TSKB CONTRIBUTES loans increased by 12.5% in TL terms in 2019 reaching THROUGH USE OF ITS FINANCIAL CAPITAL TL 31.4 billion. The Bank maintained its intensive loan A STRONG SURGE IN BANKING REVENUES monitoring activities in 2019 as well. TSKB increased its banking revenues, excluding CPIlinked security income and trading gain/loss, by 32% year-on-year to TL 1.2 billion. Having maintained its prudent provisioning policy, the Bank posted a net profit of TL 702 million, marking an surge of 6.2% compared to the previous year. As of 2019 year-end, TSKB delivered a return on tangible equity of 16.1% and a return on assets of 1.8%. GRI FS6, FS7, FS8, FS10, FS11 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 39 TSKB AT A GLANCE STRATEGY, PERFORMANCE AND EXPECTATIONS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ASSURANCE LETTERS AND CERTIFICATES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES GRI INDEX FINANCIAL CAPITAL 2019 FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE AND 2020 PROJECTIONS DEEPLY ROOTED EXPERTISE IN INVESTMENT LOANS Effective use of renewable energy resources is significantly important in 4 Within the scope of its corporate banking activities, % According to 2019 figures published by the process of combatting climate change and Turkey’s transition to a low the Banks Association of Turkey, TSKB TSKB extended USD 650 million of cash loans to its clients in 2019, with USD 305 million of this amount commands a 4% market share in project carbon economy. financing. provided to corporate clients to support long-term investment projects, and short to medium term business loans. As part of its project financing activities, RENEWABLE ENERGY* 294 PROJECTS 6,069 MW the Bank extended approximately USD 265 million to project finance loans which were financed with the In 2019, the new loans were participation of other financial institutions. The amount predominantly focused on of APEX loans extended in the same period was USD 80 million. infrastructure investments In 2019, the new loans were predominantly focused in electricity generation and 94 HPPs 15 GPPs 32 WPPs 15 BIO MASS / WASTE 138 SPPs on infrastructure investments in electricity generation distribution activities; industrial Number of Ongoing Number of Ongoing Number of Ongoing Number of Ongoing Number of Ongoing and distribution activities; industrial development, support for women’s employment and developing development, support for women’s Projects: 3 Projects: 2 Projects: 2 Projects: 1 Projects: 11 regions, energy and resource efficiency and as well as financing efforts for the investment and working capital employment and investments Total Installed Power Total Installed Power Total Installed Power Total Installed Power Total Installed Power needs of SMEs and MSEs operating in areas such as the in developing regions, energy 3,824 MW 598 MW 1,338 MW 150 MW 160 MW automotive, textile, chemical-plastics, food and iron and steel sectors. and resource efficiency and In 2019, financing was provided to investments in wind, infrastructure as well as financing ENERGY AND RESOURCE EFFICIENCY geothermal, solar and biogas resources in the field of efforts for the investment and renewable energy. working capital needs of SMEs and 148 PROJECTS According to 2019 figures published by the Banks Association of Turkey, TSKB commands a 4% market MSMEs operating in areas such as share in project financing. the automotive, textile, chemicalplastics, food and iron and steel RESOURCE EFFICIENCY ENERGY EFFICIENCY sectors. 62 PROJECTS 86 PROJECTS Sectors Sectors Tourism, Chemicals, Chemicals, Automotive, Automotive, Steel, Cement, Cement, Mining, Energy, AREAS WHERE TSKB PROVIDES PROJECT FINANCING Textiles Steel, Textiles MERGERS AND ACQUISITIONS (M&A) Energy * Limits have been allocated to 325 projects with a total installed capacity of 6,485 MW as of the end of 2019. Renewable energy information in the table is provided on the basis of disbursements. Fuel INFRASTRUCTURE Packaging Logistics Pharmaceuticals Transportation projects (ports and airports) Telecommunication ENERGY Renewable energy and power generation plants PUBLIC-PRIVATE PARTNERSHIP PROJECTS (PPP) Electricity distribution projects Integrated Health Campus Natural gas distribution projects Environmental, resource and energy efficiency projects GRI FS6, FS7, FS8, FS10, FS11 GRI FS6, FS7, FS8, FS10, FS11 40 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT TSKB AT A GLANCE STRATEGY, PERFORMANCE AND EXPECTATIONS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ASSURANCE LETTERS AND CERTIFICATES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES GRI INDEX FINANCIAL CAPITAL 2019 FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE AND 2020 PROJECTIONS 14 % With the projects The energy projects financed financed under the theme by TSKB so far account for 14% of Turkey’s total installed of women empowerment renewable energy power. approximately 1,450 jobs has been created for THE RENEWABLE ENERGY SECTOR AND TSKB 87% of financed energy projects are in operation. women as of 2019 yearCombating climate change and an efficient and As of end of 2019, 87% of the power plant projects financed by TSKB are in operation. The operating end. accurate use of renewable energy resources during projects have a total installed capacity of 5,296 MW. Turkey’s transition to a low carbon economy hold key importance. Renewable energy resources also have While the total investment amount for energy projects a key position in terms of reducing Turkey’s import financed between 2003-2019 in our country was dependency in the field of energy. Electricity generation USD 10.4 billion, TSKB committed a financing of has the largest share in the Bank’s loan portfolio with a approximately USD 4.3 billion for these projects. VERSATILE SERVICES EXTENDED TO SMEs INCREASING SUPPORT FOR WOMEN’S EMPLOYMENT rate of 36 where renewable energy projects constitute 87 86%. Ever since the day it was established, TSKB has offered Following the loan agreement signed with the French % various financing models in support of SMEs which are Development Agency (AFD Agence Française de Total installed capacity of renewable energy As of the end of 2019, 87% of the at the heart of the Turkish economy. Développement) in December 2016, as a consequence projects, which TSKB provides financing so far, energy projects financed by TSKB of its theme diversification focus, TSKB added “Women’s reaches 6,069 MW. are in operation. The Bank finances the investments of the relevant firms Empowerment” in addition to “Occupational Health TSKB has been supporting projects carried out in the in a variety of fields ranging from modernization and and Safety” to its funding themes. This funding was field of renewable energy in our country since 2002 capacity expansion investments, to energy efficiency used to support the occupational health and safety with its medium and long term funds secured from TSKB provides strong support for energy and and environmental projects. Furthermore, the working investments of the firms operating in Turkey and to DFIs. resource efficiency projects. capital needs of SMEs are covered according to the finance investments in various sectors, undertaken by Since the first energy efficiency strategy document funding criteria of the funds received from development the firms which support gender equality in the working The energy projects financed by TSKB range from released by the government in 2012, TSKB has been finance institutions. As of the end of 2019, the share of environment and to provide opportunities for women hydro-electric power plants to solar, wind, biomass supporting efforts to improve resource and energy SME loans on lend through APEX loans within the total to join the workforce. and geothermal power plants. The total estimated efficiency in local private sector by offering medium portfolio stood at 8%. installed capacity for the 294 projects financed stood at term and long-term funding. The Bank so far extended Furthermore, with the World Bank loan provided 6,069 MW, representing 14% of Turkey’s total installed approximately USD 1 billion of funding to 148 projects The InnovFin SME Guarantee Agreement, developed in 2018, TSKB continued to support women’s capacity in renewable energy. in the energy and resource efficiency fields as well as within the scope of Horizon 2020, was signed with the employment in addition to developing regions where for production processes and waste management to European Investment Fund (EIF) in order to improve the concentrations of Syrians living under temporary Types of renewable energy projects which have been companies in the iron, steel, cement, textile, aluminium, SME’s access to finance, as providing sufficient collateral protection (SuTP) is high. financed in 2019 were mainly wind, geothermal, solar automotive supply and chemicals industries. being one of the most challenging problems SMEs face and biomass. in accessing bank loans. TSKB has been supporting As of 2019, around 1,450 additional women have Energy and resource efficiency loans extended in the research, development and innovation projects of joined in the labour force with the financing support Notably, the energy sector maintained its significant various sectors represented 5% of TSKB’s loan portfolio innovative SMEs since 2016 with the loans extended in of TSKB under the women empowerment theme. In share in TSKB’s loan portfolio at the end of 2019. In the as of the end of 2019. a portfolio under this loan guarantee mechanism. As of addition, action plans are designed for companies to upcoming periods, Bank will continue supporting such the end of 2019, a portfolio volume of EUR 10.3 million self-evaluate and improve their practices within the renewable energy projects which enhance domestic In a cycle when tackling climate change has steadily was reached with a total of 11 sub-loans included in the scope of equal opportunity such as implementation of energy resources in the economy. gained more importance, TSKB anticipates that the InnovFin portfolio. equal opportunities in job recruitment and selection, importance of resource efficiency including energy revision of HR policies, ethic rules, disciplinary policies, efficiency will increase further. improving or establishing breastfeeding rooms, reducing or eliminating the gender pay gap and supporting training on gender equality. In November 2019, TSKB obtained EUR 85 million loan from AFD to finance investments to be undertaken by companies which support equal opportunities and women’s employment in the working environment. 42 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 43 TSKB AT A GLANCE STRATEGY, PERFORMANCE AND EXPECTATIONS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ASSURANCE LETTERS AND CERTIFICATES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES GRI INDEX FINANCIAL CAPITAL 2019 FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE AND 2020 PROJECTIONS Taking USD 700 million provided EXTENSIVE SUPPORT FOR TURKEY’S DEVELOPMENT IN 2020 TSKB signed USD 300 million of themed loan agreements with development finance institutions in to SMEs through APEX loans into 2019. TSKB plans to continue financing renewable energy account, total amount of funding projects in line with the Sustainable Development extended to the real sector by Goals in 2020, which contribute to bringing domestic energy resources into the economy. At the same time, Economic developments since 2018 have spurred a CLOSE COOPERATION WITH DEVELOPMENT FINANCE TSKB in the last 5 years amounted The Bank will also continue to support investments wave of credit restructuring in the banking sector. INSTITUTIONS which support women’s employment and investments In this process, TSKB has embarked on a process of to USD 7.7 billion. in developing regions, and projects that transfer human restructuring and/or refinancing certain loans in its As being one of the most well-known Turkish banks in and cash capital to R&D investments, target energy and portfolio, mainly consortium loans syndicated by the international financial markets, TSKB operates in resource efficiency, and investments by exporters which banks as well as some project finance loans. Most of close cooperation with the World Bank (IBRD), European USD 7 BILLION OF FUNDING PROVIDED BY TSKB TO provide foreign currency input to our country. Another these restructuring processes have been completed, Investment Bank (EIB), Council of Europe Development THE REAL SECTOR IN THE LAST 5 YEARS target set out by TSKB is to increase its support for the and another phase of them is in the pipeline reaching Bank (CEB), German Development Bank (KfW), Islamic Operating with the mission of producing effective development of our country by continuing to provide completion. Development Bank (IsDB), French Development solutions to the long-term resource needs of private financing within the scope of investment and working Agency (AFD), International Finance Corporation (IFC), sector clients, TSKB provides a high-quality contribution capital needs for development priority regions. The majority of the Stage 2 and Stage 3 loans are European Bank for Reconstruction and Development to the sustainable growth of the Turkish economy. The project finance loans extended to companies which (EBRD), Japan Bank for International Cooperation Bank extended USD 7 billion of total direct funding to LOAN MONITORING ACTIVITIES continue their activities. For loans whose restructuring (JBIC), Development Bank of Austria (OeEB), Asian the real sector in the last five years in sectors such as process is underway, the cash flows and repayment Infrastructure Investment Bank (AIIB) and the China renewable energy, energy efficiency, infrastructure and The selection of companies and projects to be plans of projects are matched by revising the Development Bank (CDB). logistics. credited, the implementation of the credit analysis agreements taking the business models prepared and the allocation and monitoring functions from a under detailed analysis into account. Furthermore, TSKB continued its efforts to secure new financing Taking the USD 700 million worth of APEX loans comprehensive and prudent perspective all contribute additional measures are also taken such as obtaining sources from development finance institutions in 2019. directed to SMEs into account, the total funding significantly to the sustainability of the high quality of sponsor contribution, additional collateralization and/ During the year, the total volume of thematic loan extended to the real sector reached USD 7.7 billion. the loan portfolio. or generating cashflow via asset/share sales or are also agreements signed has reached to USD 300 million being taken. level. A BALANCED NON-CASH LOAN PORTFOLIO Projects at TSKB undergo a rigorous assessment process based on unbiased, comprehensive and in-depth In the coming period, TSKB aims to provide nonCDB Loan Brokering for letters of guarantee, import and other reviews by financial analysts, engineers and economists. operating cash flows in some restructured loans TSKB signed a loan agreement with the China foreign trade transactions as required by investment Accordingly, the Bank’s NPLs have historically remained through public offering or direct sales. Within the scope Development Bank (CDB) with an amount of USD 200 and utilities projects, TSKB offered its clients USD 720 at low levels. of these efforts, TSKB aims to reduce the indebtedness million on September 11, 2019. This is the first loan million of total non-cash loans in 2019. of the relevant groups and make the loans payable extended by the CDB to Turkey under the guarantee of The main part of the loans provided for companies’ in a healthy structure by taking advantage of the the Ministry of Treasury as well as being the first longThroughout the year, the Bank focused on responding investment and working capital financing consists of positive effect of the improvements in the economic term resource provided by the CDB in Turkey. to the non-cash loan needs of its clients in the energy, foreign currency loans and it is therefore important on conjuncture. iron and steel, chemistry, plastics and textile sectors. clients’ front to generate foreign currency income and The loan is provided as part of the Belt and Road cash flow. A significant share of TSKB’s loan portfolio As of the end of 2019, 70% of Stage 2 and Stage 3 loans Initiative, which is being carried out by the People’s 720 consists of loans to renewable energy projects which were restructured. The restructuring of most of these Republic of China, and aims to support manufacturing USD will maintain their strategic importance in the future. loans was completed in 2019. In the sector, during industry, SME, energy, infrastructure, health and This contributes to the high asset quality of the Bank’s 2020 the restructuring of the non-performing loans is education projects in Turkey. portfolio. The guaranteed prices denominated to expected to continue. million foreign currency in these projects and additional AFD Women’s Employment Loan incentives for local equipment usage create a natural The ratio of TSKB’s non-performing loans, which is TSKB signed a EUR 85 million loan agreement with Total non-cash loans TSKB made hedging mechanism, increasing the efficiency and dominated by two big ticket loans, was 3.5% as of the AFD on November 8, 2019 to finance investments available to its clients in 2019. solvency of the projects. December 31, 2019. TSKB anticipates that its NPL ratio undertaken by companies which support gender will be below the 2019 level in 2020. equality and women’s employment in the working environment. 44 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 45 TSKB AT A GLANCE STRATEGY, PERFORMANCE AND EXPECTATIONS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ASSURANCE LETTERS AND CERTIFICATES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES GRI INDEX FINANCIAL CAPITAL 2019 FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE AND 2020 PROJECTIONS As a continuation of the women’s employment and occupational health and safety loan signed with AFD STRONG RELATIONS WITH INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS subordinated bonds, constituted a 22% share among TSKB’s resources (excluding equity) with a total volume TSKB will continue to raise in 2016, the loan aims to fund investments undertaken of USD1.3 billion. bilateral funding and structured by companies which provide opportunities for In 2019, TSKB maintained close contact with local women’s employment in Turkey. The loan also shows and international banks and continued to focus on Syndication Loan Facility finance facilities, by closely the dedication of TSKB to support gender equality and women’s employment. enhancing its relations with banks in line with the goals of diversifying funds and product development. On July 9, 2019, TSKB signed a syndicated loan agreement with the participation of 12 banks including monitoring developments in the Furthermore, it pursued intensive and effective Citibank as a agent under the Coordination of markets in 2020. European Bank for Reconstruction and Development communication with rating agencies. A summary Commerzbank. The syndication loan, amounting to USD (EBRD) Co-financing Agreement of TSKB’s cooperation with international financial 177 million, has a maturity of 367 days. On May 28, 2019, TSKB signed a risk sharing agreement institutions in 2019 is provided below. While developments in the markets will be closely with the EBRD in continuation of the “co-financing” The loan was provided at a total cost of Libor+3%. monitored in 2020, the Bank will continue to evaluate cooperation of previous years. With this agreement, TSKB GMTN Programme the debt capital markets, syndication, bilateral loans, the EBRD will be able to provide a maximum of 50% TSKB updated its “Global Medium Term Note Program” The Bank places importance on enriching its existing and structured borrowing opportunities in line with its financing to companies financed by TSKB. Under the to 144A / RegS standards in order to add US investors bilateral relations with domestic and international cash flow management. agreement, the total volume of the EBRD portion could to the potential investor base in a possible issuance. financial institutions and establishing new relations. reach up to EUR 50 million. As of the end of 2019, Eurobond issuances, including IN THE COMING PERIOD... GOAL FOR FUNDING DIVERSIFICATION The funds to be secured in the coming period are TSKB will continue its efforts to secure funds from intended to support the Sustainable Development international and supranational development Goals (SDGs), especially in innovative renewable finance institutions in line with its future strategy energy and clean production. On the other hand, it is in line with the priorities and needs of the country. foreseen that the new resources to be provided will In this context, in addition to the existing creditor be diversified around themes and in a way to support institutions working in cooperation, TSKB will the financing of the targets set out in Turkey’s New continue to research and aim to establish new Economic Programme and development plans, as well relationships with new institutions such as the CDB as to address the demand of private sector companies who joined TSKB’s creditors in 2019. operating in Turkey. ACTIVITIES TO BE STEPPED UP WITH THEME In 2020, in addition to securing direct credit lines, DIVERSITY TSKB will continue to expand its cooperation with the In the recent years, TSKB has been working to development finance institutions in alternative areas diversify the themes of the funds it secured. such as co-financing projects in line with its funding New themes such as women’s employment and diversification and product development goals. supporting companies in priority development regions affected by the influx of Syrians under The longstanding cooperation with the international Temporary Protection (SuTP), have been developed initiatives such as IDFC, D20-LTIC, ELTI, UNEP FI and and added to TSKB’s financing spectrum. ADFIMI, which the Bank is a member of, will be maintained effectively and with efforts to create value TSKB became the first Turkish Bank to provide in line with Turkey’s goals and requirements. The aim is Ministry of Treasury and Finance guaranteed loans to implement pioneering practices in order to increase from the CDB with a funding agreement signed with awareness in the sector by following global trends and the China Development Bank in 2019. With these good practices among these initiatives. In 2019, the loan additional resources were provided for the Bank became a Founding Signatory of the Principles for manufacturing industry, SME, energy, infrastructure, Responsible Banking of UNEP-FI and has been elected health and education projects currently supported as the 10th member of the Steering Committee of the by TSKB. IDFC, which it has been a member since 2011. 46 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 47 TSKB AT A GLANCE STRATEGY, PERFORMANCE AND EXPECTATIONS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ASSURANCE LETTERS AND CERTIFICATES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES GRI INDEX FINANCIAL CAPITAL 2019 FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE AND 2020 PROJECTIONS TSKB became the first Turkish Bank to obtain loan by the China Development Bank under the TSKB extends SME loans which contribute to employment growth through commercial banks and guarantee of the Ministry of Treasury and Finance. financial leasing companies. LONG TERM FUNDS SECURED BY TSKB 2014-2019 TSKB APEX LOANS MAIN INDICATORS Loan Amount Maturity Number of Current Status Islamic Development Bank Restricted Mudaraba Agreement USD 220 million 15 year Beneficiary Name of Program Year Amount Agreed of the USD 190 million and Companies (As of IBRD Innovative Access to Finance Project Loan 28 years Program EUR 44.1 million 2019-end) Citibank OPIC SME, Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy Loan USD 40 million 4-8 years SME (Women Employment and Prioritized Regions) AFD Sustainable Tourism and Innovative Energy Projects Loan EUR 60 million 10 years Inclusive Access to Finance Project Loan 2018 USD 200 million 109 Ongoing (IncA2F) 2014 EBRD Resource Efficiency Loan EUR 50 million 7 years Supporting SME and Exports Eurobond USD 350 million 5 years Innovative Access to Finance Project Loan KfW Credit Line for Resource Efficiency and Environmental Measures in the 2018 USD 250 million 33 Ongoing EUR 150 million 12 years (IA2F) Industry Innovative Access to Finance Project Loan OeEB Renewable Energy and Energy Efficiency Loan EUR 20 million 12 years 2014 USD 250 million 231 Completed (IA2F) EIB TSKB Energy and Environment Loan/A EUR 100 million 12 years Supporting Exports JBIC Renewable Energy and Energy Efficiency Loan USD 150 million 12 years EFIL IV Supplementary Loan 2011 USD 300 million 137 Completed EIB TSKB Loan III for SMEs and Midcaps and Innovation/A EUR 100 million 8 years EFIL IV 2008 USD 300 million 133 Completed 2015 EFIL III 2005 USD 305 million 168 Completed Eurobond USD 350 million 5 years IFC Climate Smart Loan USD 75 million 7 years EFIL II 2004 USD 303 million 211 Completed SMEs IBRD Geothermal Development Project Loan USD 150 million 28 years TSKB FUNDING** 2017 EUR 150 million 340 Ongoing KfW Credit Line for Combat Against Climate Change USD 150 million 15 years AKKB V APEX 2016 EUR 100 million 960 Completed EIB TSKB Loan III for SMEs and Midcaps and Innovation/B EUR 100 million 8 years AKKB IV APEX 2013 EUR 100 million 416 Completed 2016 EIB TSKB Energy and Environment Loan/B EUR 100 million 12 years AKKB III APEX 2010 EUR 100 million** 223 Completed AFD Women Employment and Occupational Health&Safety Loan EUR 100 million 10 years KfW APEX 2004 EUR 7.7 million 54 Completed CEB SME Loan EUR 100 million 7 years EIB APEX 2005 EUR 150 million 343 Completed Eurobond (Green/Sustainable Bond) USD 300 million 5 years * Part of the agreed amount (EUR 90.9 million) is extended as an APEX loan. ** Re-disbursement of paid-back loans TSKB Sustainable Tier 2 USD 300 million 10NC5 2017 IFC Sustainable Climate Loan USD 75 million 7 years THE LEADER OF APEX BANKING IN TURKEY investments to create new employment opportunities EBRD MidSEFF III (Mid-Size Sustainable Energy Financing Facility III) Loan USD 85 million 7 years and protect existing employment in micro, small and Being the pioneer of wholesale banking in Turkey, medium-sized companies. TSKB continued to transfer its thematic international Eurobond USD 350 million 5 years wholesale banking funds to financial institutions in In this context, 960 SMEs were indirectly provided funds 2018 AIIB Sustainable Energy and Infrastructure On-Lending Facility USD 200 million 15 years 2019. In addition to its existing cooperation with leasing through leasing companies. IBRD Inclusive Access to Finance Project Loan USD 400 million 29 years companies and commercial banks under APEX banking, TSKB has also started to work with participation TSKB re-disburses the successfully collected repayments CDB Manufacturing sector, SME, Energy, Infrastructure, Health and Education banks and factoring companies within the scope of of the past SME themed APEX loans, for creating USD 200 million 8 years 2019 Loan the “Innovative Access to Finance Project Loan” (IA2F) funding to the leasing companies, commercial banks, AFD Women Empowerment Loan EUR 85 million 10 years secured from the World Bank in 2014. participation banks and factoring companies. In this context, over the last three years, USD 230 million of TSKB completed the disbursements of the loan which funds from the loans collected were re-disbursed. was transferred by the Council of Europe Development Bank (CEB)under the same program in 2016 to finance GRI FS6, FS7, FS8, FS10, FS11 GRI FS6, FS7, FS8, FS10, FS11 48 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 49 TSKB AT A GLANCE STRATEGY, PERFORMANCE AND EXPECTATIONS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ASSURANCE LETTERS AND CERTIFICATES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES GRI INDEX FINANCIAL CAPITAL 2019 FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE AND 2020 PROJECTIONS TSKB started to transfer the part, amounted USD 200 million, of the Inclusive Access to Finance Project TSKB carries the growth and Corporate Finance activities which require stable market conditions are expected to gain momentum, especially Thanks to its flexible balance Loan (IncA2F) provided by the World Bank in 2018 to development of companies in the second half of 2020. sheet structure, TSKB has taken commercial banks and leasing companies as APEX loans. to a higher level with its wellWith the support of the dynamic and entrepreneurial utmost care in managing risks So far, TSKB has carried out effective loan transactions in established Corporate Finance marketing approach of the Corporate Finance team, 2020 is projected to be a productive year, both on the while increasing its revenues cooperation with 30 intermediary financial institutions activities and reinforces its basis of successful completion of existing and newly by correctly assessing the under APEX banking. In 2019, the total of loans acquired mandates. extended through APEX banking had reached USD support for the country’s opportunities arised. 81 million and the share of such loans within the total portfolio stood at 8%. development. A MAJOR PLAYER IN THE MONEY MARKETS AND CAPITAL MARKETS With the aim of contributing positively to profitability during the year, the average volume of short-term TL Support to Exports A STRONG START FOR 2020 WITH MORE THAN 10 TSKB is an important player in the money and capital placements in markets such as the Takasbank Money TSKB provided a total loan of USD 1.5 billion to PROJECTS markets. Protectionist trends in international trade Market and the BIST Debt Securities Market more approximately 900 firms under four different EFIL reflected worldwide since 2018 have raised global than doubled compared to the average volume of the (Export Finance Intermediation Loan) programs and the TSKB takes the growth and development of the uncertainties and downward risks in the world previous year. IA2F program. companies to the highest level through its activities economic outlook have been observed in 2019. With in the field of Corporate Finance. With its essential the resulting weakening of global growth outlook, In 2019, TSKB funded almost the entire TL securities EFIL loans aimed to not only support operations to experience in this field, the Bank offers its clients fully inflation expectations have also come down. In such an portfolio with the Bank’s equity. In the same period, boost firms’ exports but also create new business areas fledge advisory and intermediary services on Initial environment, the central banks of developed countries transactions in the swap market for TL-denominated and increase employment. Under the “Innovative Access Public Offerings, debt instrument issuances, mergers continued to cut their interest rates and capital flows liabilities management also became prominent. With to Finance Project Loan (IA2F)” agreement, the working and acquisitions, asset sale and privatizations. were observed to enter emerging markets, albeit to a the funding provided in this way, an effective cash flow capital and investment expenditures of private sector limited extent. In Turkey, inflation came down rapidly, management was realized and an advantage in total SMEs and mid-size exporting companies operating The CBRT’s decision to cut the funding rate, the shift especially after the third quarter of 2019. In parallel funding cost was achieved. around Turkey have been financed. towards a perception of lower global risk and a decline with this, in the second half of the year the CBRT cut the in inflation had a positive effect in the markets in 2019. policy interest rate, which it held constant in the first TSKB prefers to invest in risk-free and high-yield In the continuation of this environment, although a half of 2019 and decreased the policy interest rate from securities with eligible cash capital within the Support for Generating Employment more active period is expected in the capital markets 24% at the beginning of the year to 12% in December. framework of its liquidity management plan. At the end With the APEX loans, TSKB has provided a total loan of in parallel with the increase in investor risk appetite of 2019, 68% of the Bank’s TL-denominated securities USD 300 million to 1,371 SMEs over the last three years. in 2020, the course of the BIST-100 index will have a In 2019, TSKB focused on maximizing returns, portfolio was comprised of CPI-Linkers and other Thus, the total number of new employments generated clear impact on the initial public offering market. In considering the risk factors of its balance sheet. On the floating-rate securities while 32% was comprised of amounted to 875. this context, it is considered that 2020 will not prove other hand, the Bank offered the opportunity to protect fixed-rate securities. The TL denominated securities a very productive year for mediumand largesize corporations against financial risks with its derivative portfolio had a maturity of 2.2 years and an average public offerings. Regarding mergers and acquisition products. return of 17.2%. On the other hand, with the Eurobond transactions, both the number of transactions and ticket purchases carried out in 2019, the efficiency of the FX sizes decreased significantly in 2019, compared to the A “Risk-oriented” approach in position and balance denominated securities portfolio was increased. previous year. sheet management Thanks to its flexible balance sheet structure, TSKB Market volatility increased the need for financial In 2019, TSKB reorganized its Corporate Finance team has taken the utmost care in managing risks while protection and the Bank’s proactive approach to its and originated more than 10 new projects in various increasing its revenues by correctly evaluating the clients led to a successful performance in the volume sectors as a result of its successful marketing activities. opportunities created. The Bank successfully managed of derivative transactions and treasury products sales. Corporate Finance team made a strong entrance to its foreign currency position, considering risk factors Daily bulletins, market reviews and a rich range of 2020 with one ECM and two M&A transactions. and market conditions within the framework of treasury products are made available to clients. policies. TSKB Corporate Finance team has pioneered the In 2019, TSKB’s risk management activities gained establishment of Yatırım Varlık Kiralama A.Ş., a importance, both through its own balance sheet special-purpose company within the framework of management and through its clients’ derivative CMB legislation, in order to act as lead arranger on transactions. Careful liquidity management prevented Sukuk issuances. On December 27, 2019, Turkey’s first the adverse effects of market fluctuations on the Bank’s sukuk issuance in natural gas distribution sector was balance sheet. successfully finalized at TL 150 million, exceeding the target issuance amount by 50%. GRI FS6, FS7, FS8, FS10, FS11 GRI FS6, FS7, FS8, FS10, FS11 50 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 51 TSKB AT A GLANCE STRATEGY, PERFORMANCE AND EXPECTATIONS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ASSURANCE LETTERS AND CERTIFICATES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES GRI INDEX FINANCIAL CAPITAL 2019 FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE AND 2020 PROJECTIONS 177 VALUE-ADDED SOLUTIONS SHAPED BY AN ADVISOR BANK PERSPECTIVE % WORKING SIMULTANEOUSLY ON NUMEROUS STRATEGIC, IT AND PROCESS IMPROVEMENT TSKB has carried out its efforts surge in the amount of TSKB’s advisory services contracts in PROJECTS on digitalization, innovation, TSKB offers the business world and investors the 2019 required value-added services through advisory TSKB carried out works on digitalization, innovation, customer satisfaction, service solutions driven by its expertise in not only investment banking but also financial and technical evaluation, customer satisfaction, service quality and compliance within the framework of the corporate architectural quality and compliance within economic research (see Delivering Expertise and principles and the targets set out in its strategic plan. the framework of the corporate Some of the highlights of these works are presented Experience) and sustainable banking. ADVISORY CONTRACTS SIGNED IN 2019 BY below. architectural principles and the PRODUCT TYPE TSKB Advisory Services, offers a wide range of services R&D and project design studies regarding digitalization targets envisaged in its strategic under one roof as Business Development and Advisory Management Office, Economic Research, Financial and innovation had been performed on the axes plan in 2019. of organizational/ human resources, customer/ Advisory and Engineering and Technical Advisory marketing, products/services and process/technology. departments, with the aim of managing the Bank’s Pilot applications had been implemented within Information Security Work accumulated know-how and experience in economics, Company Valuation 32% the scope of robotic process automation (RPA). The Within the context of Information Security works, the finance and engineering fields in an effective and Financial Assessment 18% data classification solution had been applied to the Sector Analysis Report 11% projects identified for the implementation of the Agile quality manner in the field of advisory, as well as Feasibility Report 11% Management Model were carried out with the agile entire Bank to increase the effectiveness of DLP systems. transforming that experience into economic benefit and Strategic Advisory 7% working methodology. TSKB process management A special Cyber Intelligence Solution has been adopted income diversification. M&A Support Services 5% model and application has been revised in order to for TSKB to tackle cybercrime and malware, and works Training 4% Lender Advisory 4% follow banking processes in an effective and integrated on its integration with other security products are Through advisory services, TSKB aims to emerge as a Other 9% structure. Arrangements have been implemented in continuing. long-term partner for its clients in line with its strategic order to ensure that business continuity and emergency goals. applications are more effective. Improvements in log management products will be carried out within the scope of the Cyber Incident TSKB provides; In the IT infrastructure, the spotlight has turned to new Response Process. In order to increase the effectiveness · Financial analysis, financial planning and strategy, technology and integration projects which will support of the security controls carried out during the year M&A support, restructuring services and training TSKB successfully completed 61 advisory projects in TSKB’s strategic goals. With the application prepared and to become more battle-prepared for ongoing services under strategic financial advisory, 2019 with new software technologies, multi-dimensional attacks, efforts will be carried out to adapt the globally · Technical analysis and due diligence, project In 2019, TSKB undertook 61 advisory projects in monitoring of customer information was provided. A recognized security control sets to TSKB’s systems. management, energy and efficiency, operational different sectors and product types and successfully mobile application has been developed for sales teams. excellence, environment, climate and sustainability completed these projects. Infrastructure improvements in data warehouse and advisory, within the scope of technical advisory reporting systems, investments in information security, · Macroeconomics, export strategy, sectoral review, There was a 177% increase in advisory services and improvements have been made in systems to ESG advisory and training services within the scope of contracts in 2019 compared to the previous year. prevent attacks and leaks. economic research. TSKB is determined to improve its advisory services in the coming period and to offer its experience and TSKB will continue its R&D and project design works The Bank carries out some of its services, which knowledge to an increasing number of clients with its on digitalization and innovation in the coming are shaped by its advisor bank approach, through multidisciplinary service strength. period. Implementation and improvement of the synergistic cooperation with its subsidiary companies Agile Management Model, the application of Robotic TSKB Real Estate Appraisal and Escarus. In this context, By embodying its experience and knowledge with the Process Automation for new subjects, implementation the Bank directs domestic and foreign investors with consolidated and inclusive approach of its financial, of dialogue-based robot infrastructure, infrastructure visionary advisory services offered in the field of real technical and economic analysis competence, TSKB will supporting mobility and computer transformations are estate, while presenting tailor made solutions in the continue to diversify its support for sustainable and among the planned activities. process of integrating world-accepted approaches strong development in the period ahead. in the field of sustainability into the Turkish business TSKB’s business processes will be adapted to the world. new model and improvements will be made in the light of the security in IT infrastructure and the use of new technologies. Revision studies based on new technologies will continue in banking applications. On the other hand, information security improvements are planned with the application of security solutions to prevent harmful software. GRI FS6, FS7, FS8, FS10, FS11 52 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 53 TSKB AT A GLANCE STRATEGY, PERFORMANCE AND EXPECTATIONS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ASSURANCE LETTERS AND CERTIFICATES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES GRI INDEX FINANCIAL CAPITAL 2019 FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE AND 2020 PROJECTIONS TSKB’s total market capitalization TSKB shares recorded an average daily trading volume 2016 2017 2018 2019 TSKB Closing Share Price (TL) 0.98 1.20 0.81 1.21 has reached TL 3.4 billion of 33 million lots. The Bank’s total market capitalization Change (%)** 10.7 23.0 -32.7 50 was TL 3.4 billion (USD 573 million), with a foreign (USD 573 million), marking an ownership ratio of 54.9% in its free float. As of the yearBIST Banking Index 129,549 171,378 117,737 160,169 Change (%)** 8.0 32.3 -31.3 36 annual increase of 50%. Foreign end, its price-to-book ratio was recorded at 0.69 and price-to-earnings ratio stood at 4.8. BIST 100 Index 78,139 115,333 91,270 114,425 investors had a 55% share of the Change (%)** 8.9 47.6 -20.9 25.4 TSKB is covered by 16 brokerage houses. Nearly 20% of Bank’s actual shares in circulation. the investors met throughout the year consisted of new Relative to BIST Banking Index (%) 2.4 -7.1 -2.0 9.8 Relative to BIST 100 Index (%) 1.6 -16.7 -14.9 19.2 investors. During the year, teleconferences informing Source: Finnet TSKB STOCK PERFORMANCE AND INVESTOR investors and analysts continued to be held following * Retrospective closing prices are adjusted in line with the cash dividends and capital increase through bonus issues after the relevant dates RELATIONS ACTIVITIES IN 2019 the announcement of the financial results each quarter ** Year-to-date change Having been one of the key players in the formation and questions were answered in detail based on a of capital markets in Turkey, TSKB offered its shares to transparency driven approach. Investor presentations of public in 1986. TSKB shares are listed on the BIST Stars TSKB are available on the Bank’s website. under the ticker “TSKB”. Furthermore, TSKB retains its position on BIST Corporate Governance Index and BIST In line with market conditions, increasing the number Sustainability Index. TSKB’s free float ratio is 38.6%. of investor meetings is targeted for 2020. At the same time, efforts to enhance TSKB’s recognition, visibility The Borsa Istanbul stock market rebounded after and liquidity in the market and to expand its investor having tumbled in the first half of 2019 amid political base will continue within the framework of its investor uncertainties, with the support of the stabilization relations activities. process in the economy and the expansionary monetary policy implemented by the CBRT in the second half of 2019. In 2019, BIST-100 index surged up by 25% to 114,425, while the banking index ended the year with a 36% jump to 160,169. TSKB shares, on the other hand, started the year at TL 0.81 level and surged by nearly 50% to TL 1.21 with a positive decoupling from the BIST100 and the banking index. TSKB MARKET CAPITALIZATION million USD TL million 1,200 TSKB Market Value USD (left axis) TSKB Market Value TL (right axis) 4,000 1,100 3,700 1,000 3,400 900 3,100 800 2,800 700 2,500 600 2,200 500 1,900 400 300 1,600 200 1,300 100 1,000 D 18 J 19 F 19 M 19 A 19 M 19 J 19 J 19 A 19 S 19 O 19 N 19 D 19 54 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 55 TSKB AT A GLANCE STRATEGY, PERFORMANCE AND EXPECTATIONS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ASSURANCE LETTERS AND CERTIFICATES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES GRI INDEX FINANCIAL CAPITAL 2019 FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE AND 2020 PROJECTIONS ASSESSMENT ON FINANCIAL STANDING, PROFITABILITY, SOLVENCY&2020 FINANCIAL The share of sustainable loans in The Bank was focused on enriching its relationships with international banks in line with its funding PROJECTIONS TSKB’s total loan portfolio is 74%. diversification and product development targets in 2019. In 2019, TSKB focused on maintaining its healthy balance sheet structure, effective risk and liquidity Investment loans account for 70% of the Bank’s loan management, and strong equity growth, in addition portfolio and 22% correspond to working capital CREDIT PORTFOLIO BY THE END OF 2019 ACCORDING TO IFRS to continuing to support the country’s economy. The loans, in line with the Bank’s mission banking. The rest Bank’s total assets grew by 9.7% in TL terms reaching was comprised of loans extended through wholesale Share in Total Coverage Ratio TL 42 billion. The asset size in dollar terms stood at banking (APEX Banking). Within the total loan book Stage I 85.7% 0.6% USD 7.1 billion as of the same period. 23% of the Bank’s including FX-Indexed loans, 48% was denominated to Stage II 10.8% 10.3% assets are in Turkish Lira and 77% are in foreign currency Dollars and 42% to Euros. Stage III 3.5% 32.1% (FX). The Bank’s interest-bearing assets to total assets Total 100.0% 2.8% ratio standing at 92%indicates strong solvency of the Electricity generation and distribution projects stood Bank. out among new loan disbursements of 2019. A sectoral breakdown of loans indicated that 36% and 14% of The Bank’s provisioning policy is in line with IFRS 9 diversification and product development targets in In 2019, the Bank continued to support major loans were allocated to the electricity generation Principles, which were started to be implemented at 2019. A loan agreement amounting to USD 200 million investments in the Turkish economy by allocating a and finance, respectively. The metal and machinery, the beginning of 2018. Coverage ratio of stage 2 loans, was signed with the CDB to finance manufacturing, total of USD 1.4 billion of new loans, USD 650 million electricity and gas distribution, logistics, chemistry which have a 10.8% share in total loans, was 10.3% on industry, SME, energy, infrastructure, health and of which is cash loans. Parallel to the Bank’s funding and plastics, construction, tourism, real estate, foodaverage. Coverage ratio of stage 3 loans, which had education projects throughout Turkey, under the structure, 90% of Bank’s loan portfolio is comprised beverage and the education and health sectors are 3.5% share in the total portfolio, was 32.1% on average. guarantee of the Turkish Ministry of Treasury and of FX loans. The cash loan portfolio, which grew by evenly distributed with each sector accounting for 3-9% Finance. 12.5% in 2019 to TL 31.4 billion, remained flat on an FX of the loans. Energy and resource efficiency projects had The securities portfolio had the second largest share adjusted basis. The share of gross loans in total assets a 5% share in the Bank’s total loan portfolio. The share in assets after loans with a 16% weight. The total Meanwhile, a loan agreement was signed with the AFD has risen to 74.8% as of 2019 year-end compared to of sustainability themed loans in the total loan portfolio volume of securities rose by 21.4% year-on-year to amounting to EUR 85 million, along with financing 72.9% as of 2018 year-end. was 74%. reach TL 6,651 million. At the end of the year, 67% of investments made by companies in Turkey that the securities portfolio was comprised of TL securities, promote gender equality in the working environment In accordance with the Regulation on Procedures and 61% was made up of securities available for sale and and support women’s participation in employment. A Principles for Classification of Loans and Provisions to TSKB’S ASSET COMPOSITION 39% was comprised of securities held to maturity. Risk Sharing Facility was signed with the EBRD allowing be set aside, the share of Stage 3, 4 and 5 loans, which A comparison of the beginning of the year with the up to USD 50 million of co-financing with TSKB. were classified as non-performing loans in total loans year-end indicates that the percentage of “Inflationaveraged 0.3% in 2013-2017 and stood at 2.1% as of Indexed Securities” in the TL portfolio increased from A syndicated loan agreement amounting to USD 177 2018 year-end and 3.5% as of 2019 year-end. 47% to 54%, while the weight of total “Floating Rate million was signed on July 9, 2019 with the participation Securities” including CPI-linkers rose from 67% to 73%. of 12 banks from 12 different countries. The redemption In 2019, the surge in non-performing loans was due The duration of the portfolio, which is almost entirely of the Bank’s USD 350 million Eurobond issuance was to the transfer of one project finance loan, which had funded by Bank’s free equity, is 2.3 years. realized in October 2019. In the first days of 2020,TSKB been followed in the stage 2 loans in the previous issued a Eurobond in the international capital markets periods, to the stage 3 loans due to the longer than Parallel with the asset composition, 82% of the liabilities with the size of USD 400 million which was 10 times expected restructuring process. With respect to of the Bank’s balance sheet consist of FX liabilities. oversubscribed. that particular loan, the syndication banks and the Funds received reached TL 26,347 million, expanding by independent advisor came to a final stage at the 2017 2018 2019 11.8% year on year. Almost all of this funding consists of The Bank does not carry interest mismatch or liquidity restructuring process, and the letter of offer was signed Loans 77% 73% 75% medium-and long-term funds provided from abroad in imbalances, given the dominating share of floating in December. The ratio of stage 2 loans was 10.8% as of Securities 16% 14% 16% foreign currency. 73% of this funding were secured with rate assets and liabilities in the balance sheet not 2019 year-end. Within the scope of Restructured Loans Cash and MM 3% 5% 3% the guarantee of the Turkish Ministry of Treasury and expose to effective balance sheet management and Management, the Bank’s loan risk amounting to USD Other Assets 4% 8% 6% Finance. relatively longer maturity of its funding compared to its 538 million in 20 companies belonging to 13 groups loans. Due to matched currency structure of the loans was restructured in 2019. The Bank focused on enriching its relationships extended and funding that is used to extend these with international banks in line with its funding loans, the Bank bears a negligible currency risk. 56 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 57 TSKB AT A GLANCE STRATEGY, PERFORMANCE AND EXPECTATIONS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ASSURANCE LETTERS AND CERTIFICATES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES GRI INDEX FINANCIAL CAPITAL FINANCIAL CAPITAL TARGETS AND KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 2019 FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE AND 2020 PROJECTIONS 20.1 17.8 2019 Guidance 2019 Figures 2020 Guidance % TSKB’s shareholders’ % TSKB’s capital adequacy Financial Guidance (Bank Only) (%) equity expanded by ratio stood at 17.8% on FX Adjusted Loan Growth Flat Flat 3.0-5.0 20.1% to TL 5.7 billion a bank-only basis and Loan/Assets Ratio ~75 75 ~75 compared to the previous 17.4% on a consolidated Fees&Commission Growth >35 57 >50 year. basis. OPEX Growth <25 26 <20 Net Interest Margin (adj.)* ~4 4.2 ~4 Return on Tangible Equity** 14-15 16.1 >16 TSKB’s shareholders’ equity went up by 20.1% compared to TL 201.5 million. Although the cost to income ratio Return on Assets 1.5-1.7 1.8 1,.7-1.9 to the previous year to TL 5,667 million and its share was lifted from 10.8% to 13.4%, it was maintained well in the total liabilities surged from 12.3% to 13.5%. As below the sector average of around 35%. Cost/Income Ratio 13-14 13.4 <15 of 2019 year-end, the capital adequacy ratio (CAR) Capital Adequacy Ratio >15 17.8 >18 was 17.8% on a bank-only basis and 17.4% on a The total sum of donations and charity undertaken by Tier I Ratio 12.4 >12.5 consolidated basis. These levels are well above the legal the Bank during the year amounted to TL 180,400. Total Stage II Loans Ratio 10.8 Flat limit of 12%. TSKB’s tier-1 ratio was 12.4%. expenses incurred for the social responsibility projects stood at TL 637,600. Loans in Follow-Up <5 3.5 <3.5 The Bank’s free equity, which is entirely consist of liquid Net Cost of Risk ~130 bps 126 bps <100 bps assets, amounted TL 4.1 billion, indicating a free equityTSKB’s profit before provisions and tax in 2019 fell by * Swap adjusted. to-total assets ratio of 9.7% as of 2019 year-end. 4.1% to TL 1,353 million, while its net profit surged up ** Tangible Equity(TE) = Shareholders’ equity – MtM valuations of FVOCI portfolio by 6.2% to TL 702 million given the 8.4% contraction in An analysis of the Bank’s Income Statement finds that provision expenses. In 2019, Bank’s return on equity and net interest income in 2019 marked an increase of return on assets stood at 13.5% and 1.8% respectively. 10.2% to TL 1,932 million. The net interest margin edged The Bank’s return on tangible equity is calculated as down from 4.6% to 4.2% in 2019 in line with the budget 16.1% when the shareholders equity is adjusted by estimates due to the significant changes in the USD / excluding the impact of mark-to-market valuations of its TL exchange rate, interest rates and inflation figures, listed affiliations. as well as contraction in the CPI linkers’ income. Total personnel and other operating expenses rose by 23.8% TSKB targets fx adjusted loan growth of 3% -5% in 3%-5% 75% 2020. In parallel, the share of loans to its assets is FX adjusted loan Loans to assets ratio expected to remain at 75%. growth As a result of the organizational changes carried out last year, TSKB aims to increase the fees and Advisory services gaining +50% importance Fees and commissions income by more than 50% with the commission growth support of the Bank’s advisory activities, which gained importance in its service range. Thus, TSKB aims to have return on assets of 1.7%-1.9% 1.7%-1.9% +16% and return on tangible equity of more than 16%. The Return on assets Return on tangible NPL ratio, which was 3.5% in 2019, is expected to fall equity below this level. 58 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 59 TSKB AT A GLANCE STRATEGY, PERFORMANCE AND EXPECTATIONS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ASSURANCE LETTERS AND CERTIFICATES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES GRI INDEX CAPITALS HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT IN 2019 HUMAN CAPITAL In 2019, an agile work In 2019, within the scope of TSKB’s organizational development plans, potential evaluation inventories methodology was applied in including their readiness for one step forward and leadership assessment questionaires were filled by all TSKB’S EMPLOYEES AND ALL ASSOCIATED three trials in addition to the goal banking staff. In the following process, 360-degree STAKEHOLDERS WITH WHOM IT COOPERATES of ensuring human resources feedback assessment survey was completed by the CONSTITUTE ITS HUMAN CAPITAL managers considering the succession plan and in aim to work more efficiently. develop his/her successor. THE BUILDING BLOCK OF SUSTAINABLE PERFORMANCE After all the assessments and evaluations, all TSKB Human resources projects in 2019 employees got feedback during one-to-one interviews Competent human resources are one of the most important factors Within the scope of consultancy received in 2018, an regarding their competencies, potential and strengths; ensuring that TSKB’s strong performance is sustainable. interactive methodology was established in performance where the basis for the Individual Development management system which aims to increase harmony Plans has been established. In the final stage, TSKB In order to ensure business processes are even more effective, the between business lines and cooperation with corporate employees, together with their managers have Bank conducts regular activities on many issues in the field of human goal system. TSKB tried to make sure the key performance determined two competencies for their development resources ranging from continuous development, measurementindicators provide the link from organizational vision to and are ready to participate in customized competencyevaluation-rewarding systems and strengthening career architecture individual action where KPIs cascade each respective based development plans. to recruitment, vocational and managerial training programs, various level in Bank, accelerating from the Corporate Score open communication channels with employees and strong employer card and affecting all employees individual score cards. With the all evaluations and assessments, TSKB in brand studies. With the balanced score card methodology, strategic the human resources constitute an input for 9 box management performance metrics are used to identify (performance and potential matrix) studies. With the 9 In this section and improve various internal business functions and their box chart, TSKB examines talent within the organization Investing in Human Resources resulting external outcomes is aimed with numerical and and gains a perspective of looking at the relationship The TSKB Technology and Entrepreneurship Platform measurable key performance indicators throughout all the between the performance of individuals and their Reverse Mentoring and Young Consultants to the CEO departments. potential for the future and succession plans. Strong Employer Branding Sustainability Workshop The competencies were withdrawn from the The Internal Transfer Project, which supports horizontal Training Programs at TSKB performance system and integrated into the career career movements within the scope of providing Become a Partner to the Future Program development model. technical knowledge diversity and the opportunities for Investment in Human Resources career moves, offered 29 employees the opportunity 360 Degree Feedback Survey is based on a competency for different roles in other departments, and the SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS THAT TSKB CONTRIBUTES model consisting of three levels from a variety of Rotation Project gave two employees the opportunity THROUGH USE OF ITS HUMAN CAPITAL points: Basic, Managerial and Functional. This model to gain experience for a specific period in different gives feedback for developmental purposes, providing departments. it to employees to assist in developing work skills and behaviour patterns. Therefore, all the employees Since 2017, volunteer HR Representatives in every were expected to prepare a behaviour-oriented department have been communicating their opinions development plan regarding these feedbacks and to and feedbacks to the HR department and acting as a focus on developing at least two competencies. This bridge in the transparent transfer of HR practices to study helped expand the competence-based concrete the teams. Periodic meetings with HR Representatives feedback culture in the Bank. to transfer the questions, opinions and feedbacks of the departments continued in 2019. The TSKB Human In this respect, the Bank defined each skill title and Resources team liases with the departments separately completed each employee’s mapping. While the and will continue to inform all departments of human Technical Knowledge and Skills Library is supported resources functions, standards and new practices in and followed by employees’ horizontal career 2020. movements, it has been put into practice to determine the development and technical training needs of the To strengthen teamwork and cooperation, outdoor employees. training activities were conducted among the departments that ranked below the average within the scope of the internal Customer Satisfaction Survey. GRI 103-2, GRI 103-3 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 61 TSKB AT A GLANCE STRATEGY, PERFORMANCE AND EXPECTATIONS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ASSURANCE LETTERS AND CERTIFICATES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES GRI INDEX HUMAN CAPITAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT IN 2019 TSKB is engaging with young talents at a very early stage of their career, at their university years. After their graduations, best talents among interns who had a real work experience in TSKB, have chance to be recruited as junior associate. teams on various themes such as infrastructure, in 2019 as well. Within the scope of the projects aiming transportation, education, innovative retail solutions, to make mutual learning be continuous and enable waste management, sustainability rating platform, and leaders and senior managers to stay in touch with the platform of bringing entrepreneurs and investors their organisations and the outside world. Also, junior together. employees have an opportunity to understand and be heard by more senior and experienced people. Three Projects Worthy of Award within the Scope of the Young Consultants team, who regularly meet with Flexible Working Hours and Remote Work models TSKB Technology and Entrepreneurship Platform Platform the CEO of TSKB, Suat İnce, share their opinions and In order to adapt to changing working conditions and The TSKB Technology and Entrepreneurship Platform, • Inovasyonix, which is designed to provide intraadvises on chosen trends and topics all over the world to improve efficiency, a Flexible Working Hours Model which was established in 2018 in cooperation with the organizational entrepreneurship as an online such as Fintech, Data Culture, Archiving and Increasing started to be implemented throughout the Bank since Turkey Entrepreneurship Foundation, with the aim of and offline 15-week long training and start-up Digitalization. January 2019. The flexible working utilization rate keeping up with the rapid change taking place in the development program. at the Bank is 70%. The remote work model, which world and developing new ways of doing business • Symbiot, which provides physical data and digital Strong Employer Branding was launched as a trial in December among research and innovative perspectives, brought together the data to produce innovative retail solutions, and offers In 2019, within the scope of Strong Employer Branding departments, is planned to be rolled out across the expert banking experience of young and innovative customer-specific personalized analysis activities, TSKB employees participated in various Bank in 2020. bank employees under the age of 30 years with the • The Sustainable Development Goals Rating Platform, courses and programs at eight different universities entrepreneurial spirit and excitement of representatives which aims to provide a transparent flow of and presented TSKB. These TSKB employees transferred Working towards an agile organization from the Entrepreneurship Foundation. A total of 11 information between the producer and the consumer, their technical know-how during the courses, and also In 2019, the agile work methodology was applied in different teams and respective projects were arised. from the production process to the end consumer, shared their experiences about how they reflected the three trials, to complement the goal of human resources with the certificate it has issued. academic knowledge into daily business. to work more efficiently. It is seen that agility, which The journey started with the Entrepreneurship Day is a working method, is reflected in our business as in November 2018 with the participation of TSKB The Sustainable Development Goals Rating Platform Sustainability Workshop flexibility, efficiency, speed, ability to learn and resultemployees, angel investors, entrepreneurs and project continues within TSKB with an expanded team. TSKB has been bringing together university students orientedness. The organizational agile transformation Entrepreneurship Foundation representatives. The with members of the academia, TSKB, and Escarus strategy and objectives were transferred to the senior project teams participated in training programs on In addition to developing projects within the scope employees and organizing the “Sustainability management and HR representatives in order to spread different thinking techniques and working models of TSKB Technology and Entrepreneurship Platform, Workshops”, which is the first literacy program on the agility culture. In addition, business units in agile throughout the studies. TSKB hosted two entrepreneurs in 2019 in the series of sustainability, and aims to raise sustainability awareness, projects participated in various training programs. TSKB inspiring speeches. in cooperation with Escarus, the Bank’s subsidiary. aims to expand the agile culture within the Bank and After 6 months, the number of project groups was Students from various departments such as business increase the number of agile projects with volunteer reduced to 8 following the preselection screening Reverse Mentoring and Young Consultants to the administration, economics, architecture and industrial Agile Coaches in 2020. by the Entrepreneurship Foundation authorities. CEO engineering participated in the workshop which was Three projects were deemed worthy of awards The Reverse Mentoring and Young Consultants to the held in Özyeğin University in 2019. after presentations carried out by eight different CEO projects which were launched in 2018 continued GRI 103-2, 103-3 GRI 103-2, 103-3 62 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 63 TSKB AT A GLANCE STRATEGY, PERFORMANCE AND EXPECTATIONS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ASSURANCE LETTERS AND CERTIFICATES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES GRI INDEX HUMAN CAPITAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT IN 2019 The 2019 theme of the Sustainability Workshop was “Climate Change and the Business World: Risk or TSKB will resolutely sustain TSKB offers various programs at all levels to develop their managerial skills and prepare its employees Opportunity for Companies?”. During the workshop, investments in its human for the future. university students or, in other words, future decisionmaker carried out case studies in the leadership capital and its multidimensional of expert participants from the TSKB and Escarus, addressing the issue of sustainability. development in the upcoming begin its journey of development that has a widespread and integrated structure. period within an approach Interaction with Young Talents TSKB is engaging with young talents at a very early considering the requirements of Under this program, department heads will be included in the Leadership Development Program, stage of their career, during their university years. Providing university students with long-term internship the Bank’s corporate strategy. senior managers and managers will be included in the Managerial Development Program, and the senior opportunities, TSKB offers trainees the opportunity to manager and the rest of the banking staff will be start working as junior associate after their graduation. Strengthening the TSKB family with the included in the Competency Development Program. participation of 47 new employees After the internship period, which is very similar to Within the scope of the recruitment activities carried This program, prepared within the framework of the real work experience, interns have the chance to start out in 2019, a total of 47 new employees, including 11 “Learning Agility” theme, which is main concept of the working as a junior associate upon graduation. After new graduates and 36 experienced employees, joined competencies, will be mandatory for sub-managerial their graduations, best talents among interns who the TSKB family. Additionally, 15 interns were hired for titles and will be accessible to all title groups. A holistic had a real work experience in TSKB, have chance to be part-time internship program. TRAINING PROGRAMS AT TSKB development-learning model will be implemented recruited as junior associate. within the scope of the program, where a transfer of Bonus payments to employees TSKB aims to provide the development of its employees information is provided through online information, Update on the Training Catalogue Bonus payments are made once a year on the condition with tailored training programs. pre-tests and post-tests, action studies and also with Until the year 2019, the objective of the catalogue that the strategies and long-term objectives of TSKB are practical in-class, face-to-face workshop trainings. training was to support the competency development adhered to, and risk management structures are taken In line with this goal, the Bank carries out various of competency of the employees. With the new into consideration. To this end, a gross incentive bonus training and development activities in order to Within the scope of organizational development approach in 2019, competency development has been of TL 11,969,268 was paid to 243 employees in 2019 for improve both technical and professional knowledge activities at TSKB in 2020, high-potential and highmade the subject of individual development plans with their 2018 successful performance results evaluated by of its employees as well as their personal skills and performance employees will be supported with scope of organizational development activities. TSKB Performance Management System. competencies. The average training time per employee leadership-based studies; technical training abroad for was 39 hours in 2019. experts, and remote learning training for all employees. The focus of the Training Catalogue, which is one of the Highlights from the 2020 human resource targets Within the framework of the Individual Development most important tools of the continuous development TSKB will resolutely sustain investments in its human Training programs are offered to TSKB employees Plans which will be prepared for employees, training goal, has been updated and enriched with trend issues capital and its multidimensional development in the on various topics in addition to trainings which are programs are also designed to provide competency such as Mindfulness, Mind Mapping, Networking, which upcoming period within an approach adhering to the mandatory to be provided, as well as technical and development as well as technical and professional the employees will benefit in daily life as well as in requirements of the Bank’s corporate strategy. vocational training. Orientation and mentoring system development. business life. processes are implemented in order to ensure that The steps to be taken in this context are as follows; employees who are new to TSKB are able to adapt to the Employee Engagement and Satisfaction is the · To adapt the results obtained from four main systems organization rapidly. Priority (Performance Management System, 360 Degree TSKB believes that the most successful business Feedback on Competencies, Technical Knowledge TSKB offers its employees a range of different programs development is carried out through the observations Skill Management and Potential System) to the Bank each level in order to improve their managerial skills and evaluations of the people in an institution. For that in a short space of time and most efficiently, and get them ready for the future. In this context, purpose, employee satisfaction surveys are conducted · To simplify HR processes and increase their visibility one-to-one coaching is provided for department periodically at TSKB. and effectiveness, managers and training programs are held abroad to · To provide a modern, contemporary infrastructure improve leadership skills. “Leaderships Acceleration and With these surveys, TSKB regularly measures the level of and mobile&desktop applications that will have an Development” was one of the most important themes satisfaction and engagement of its employees and takes integrated structure in all HR related platforms of in development planning in 2019. action in line with its improvement goals by providing a employees, routine platform where its employees are able to submit · To invest in HR applications software to boost a THE “BECOME A PARTNER FOR THE FUTURE” their thoughts and feedbacks. culture of feedback and open communication while PROGRAM making it available to TSKB employees in 2020. Following the potential evaluation and 360 Degree In 2019, 322 people responded to the employee Feedback Assessment studies carried out in 2019, TSKB engagement and satisfaction survey. The survey will ensure learning becomes continuous in 2020 with participation rate was 87%. In 2018, 329 people the motto “Become a Partner to the Future”, and will GRI 103-2, 103-3, 401-1 GRI 103-2, 103-3, 404-1, 404-2, 405-1 64 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 65 TSKB AT A GLANCE STRATEGY, PERFORMANCE AND EXPECTATIONS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ASSURANCE LETTERS AND CERTIFICATES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES GRI INDEX HUMAN CAPITAL HUMAN CAPITAL TARGETS AND KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT IN 2019 had responded to the employee engagement and • The systematic studies and professional consultancy 2019 Targets 2019 Realizations satisfaction survey with a participation rate of 85%. which TSKB has implemented since 2017 supported the emergence and acceleration of leaner and more In 2019, the scope of the Development In 2019, Potential Evaluation and 360 Degree Feedback Survey covering TSKB’s efforts to improve employee engagement are transparent results in these areas. Workshop is planned to be redesigned with a all Bank staff were carried out. The results have served as a valuable input also reflected in the survey results. focus on leadership development. for development planning and training programs. The following points were noted when comparing the As a result of the workshops, the competencies were surveys for 2018 and 2019; rewritten, removed from the performance system and Competency development and training in this scope are included • Employee engagement increased by 1.8 percentage made a component of development. As a result of Starting in 2019, the scope of the work will in Organizational Development Studies. Competence development points in the last one year. this study, the TSKB Performance System now has a be expanded in the form of the creation activities are carried out through inventory studies and individual • Job satisfaction reached the highest score in both structure consisting of more measurable targets. of personalized development plans. The development plans. Competency choices were made and their designs years. process will progress with a comprehensive were completed in 2019. The Competency Development Program will take • There was an increase in the career planning score, Implementing practices on an egalitarian basis without development follow-up and the work on place in 2020. which was one of the weakest areas in 2018. Career taking any differential approach in human resources training catalogue will continue with the planning was also the area to record the most processes, TSKB continues to be a pioneer in the perspective of keeping employees up-toIn 2019, the training catalogue was renewed with trending topics which progress compared to the previous year. financial sector, having published its Equal Opportunity date on the subjects and topics that are will benefit daily life as well as business life, and was offered to all • The second most significant increase in progress Policy at the beginning of 2019. trending around the world. employees under six different training titles. compared to the previous survey was trainings and professional/personal development. To access the policy text: Within the scope of strong employer branding activities, TSKB members http://www.tskb.com.tr/i/assets/document/pdf/TSKB_Equal_ In 2019, strong employer branding activities • An improvement was observed in almost all fields, Opportunities_Policy.pdf visited eight different universities in 2019. Providing university students with including career planning, collaboration and will continue on various platforms in long-term internship opportunities, TSKB offers trainees the opportunity to teamwork, inter-departmental communication and regarding the recruitment of fresh graduates. start working as junior associate after their graduation. performance management, which were identified by HR as priority development areas for 2019. Executive candidates are planned to participate in training programs such as “Basic Occupational Health and Safety”, “Sustainability”, “Corporate Governance, Ethics and Tackling Corruption and Bribery”, In line with the recruitment policy, inexperienced employees were TSKB AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES MAJOR DEMOGRAPHICS “Business Continuity”, “Prevention of recruited at various times in 2019. In this context, training was provided Laundering Proceeds of Crime and Financing on an individual basis or collectively depending on need, rather than Number of Employees As of TSKB Real Estate Yatırım of Terrorism”, “Personal Data Protection”, through a common program. TSKB TSKB GYO Escarus 31.12.2019 Appraisal Finansman “Competition Law”, “Risk Management” and Female 174 45 6 7 56 “Information Security Awareness” in addition Male 148 56 4 4 65 to vocational training related to banking, conducted by internal and external trainers. 21-30 (years of age) 89 39 3 4 30 31-40 156 58 5 4 36 Implementation of the Development 41-50 66 4 3 50 Programme (coaching and training abroad The structured development program for managers continued in 2019. 51+ 11 2 5 programmes) structured for managers will continue in 2019 and 2020. Headquarter 320 56 10 11 78 Branch 2 45 43 Elementary School 2 High School 1 10 1 2 College 3 8 2 University 204 70 7 3 93 Masters 112 13 2 7 21 PhD 2 1 1 GRI 103-2, 103-3, 404-1, 404-2, 405-1 GRI 103-2, 103-3, 404-1, 404-2, 405-1 66 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 67 TSKB AT A GLANCE STRATEGY, PERFORMANCE AND EXPECTATIONS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ASSURANCE LETTERS AND CERTIFICATES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES GRI INDEX HUMAN CAPITAL GOALS AND KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 2019 Other Performance Indicators Future Targets The TSKB Technology and Entrepreneurship Platform was established to encourage entrepreneurship culture within the An increase in The Bank aims to The Bank aims to spread the In 2020, HR Applications Bank and the first term was completed. enrich Robotic Process agility culture throughout the software will be employee efficiency by Automation with new Bank in 2020 with volunteer purchased to offer a conducting R&D and processes in 2020. Agile Coaches from within modern, contemporary project design studies the Bank and to increase the infrastructure which will In 2019 preparations for the training platform were completed to support the development of the entire Bank’s staff with number of agile projects. be used by employees, on digitalization and the integrative learning methods. will manage processes in innovation throughout an integrated structure TSKB. and embed a culture of feedback and open In 2019, the remote working model started to be tested and will be rolled out across the entire Bank in 2020. communication. In 2019, Robotic Process Automation (RPA) tests were undertaken. Increase our employees’ In 2020, the Bank aims to In 2020, under the new The Bank aims to adapt start international and/ development program program, the results of the four main engagement or domestic programs managers will be included in systems consisting of the through training and and one-to-one coaching the “Leadership Development Performance Management development programs activities selected Program”, senior managers and System, the 360 Degree and alternative projects from high-reputation managers will be included in Feedback Survey, institutions on leadership the “Managerial Development Technical Information Skill in line with their for those employees with Program”, and senior managers and Management and Potential competencies and high potential and high the rest of the banking staff will System to the Bank in the potentials. performance. be included in the “Competency most efficient way in 2020. Development Program”. The TSKB Technology and Entrepreneurship Platform was established to encourage entrepreneurship culture at TSKB and 49% To increase the motivation of The ratio of women employees to innovate the first term was completed. in management in different fields of interest and subjects. 54% 18% 79% 39 hours The ratio of women The ratio of women Employee Training per among total on the Board of engagement score employee Maintaining our focus employees Directors on equal opportunity across the Bank 2% 87% 2% increase High performance Participation rate in The increase in employee loyalty, performance employee turnover employee satisfaction management, training and development satisfaction rate rate* survey in the Employee Satisfaction Survey when compared to 2018 * Turnover rate among high performance employees. GRI 103-2, 103-3, 404-1, 404-2, 405-1 68 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 69 TSKB AT A GLANCE STRATEGY, PERFORMANCE AND EXPECTATIONS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ASSURANCE LETTERS AND CERTIFICATES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES GRI INDEX CAPITALS THE TSKB SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM NATURAL CAPITAL TSKB supports Turkey’s TSKB’S SUSTAINABLE BANKING POLICIES sustainable development with its TSKB SUSTAINABILITY POLICY THE POSITIVE AND/ OR NEGATIVE IMPACTS products and services. OF THE BANK’S OPERATIONS ON NATURAL Complementary Policies: RESOURCES CONSTITUTE TSKB’S NATURAL AN EFFECTIVE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM COVERING • TSKB Environmental and Social Impact Policy List of Activities That Are Not to be Financed CAPITAL. ALL OF TSKB’S BUSINESS PROCESSES • TSKB Occupational Health&Safety Policy In parallel with the development of the concept and • TSKB Human Rights Policy A PROCESS THAT BEGAN IN THE NEW MILLENIUM perception of sustainability throughout the world, TSKB • TSKB Sustainable Procurements Management Policy has achieved a first in the Turkish market and adopted TSKB’s prioritization of natural capital elements began in the early • TSKB Anti-Bribery and Anticorruption Policy sustainability from its mission to its business model and 2000s with the integration of the concept of sustainable banking in processes from end to end. • TSKB Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Program the Bank’s activities. TSKB supports Turkey’s sustainable development with TSKB’s external impact assessment process and methodology its products and services. In this context, the Bank has SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE provide added value to the institution, society and the environment structured its Sustainability Management System (SMS) in the areas outlined below. to cover all its business processes in order to reduce All sustainability work across the organizational • Increasing renewable energy investments in the country the environmental and social impacts as a result of its structure is managed by the Sustainability Committee, • Reducing carbon emissions and energy needs through efficiency banking activities and support the Turkey’s transition to which is comprised of three Board Members and loans a low carbon economy. three Executive Vice Presidents. The members of the • Raising awareness among all stakeholders, especially clients • Providing a positive impact to the country and society with the Sustainability Committee are appointed through Board The Sustainability Policy forms the basic framework decisions. The Committee’s mission is the coordination positive contributions of financed projects to the environment and of the TSKB SMS. of the work and business plans to be composed in social life TSKB published its Environmental Policy in 2006. regard to TSKB’s sustainability strategy, vision and • Strengthening the Bank’s sustainable banking image In 2012, the Bank expanded the scope of the targets. • Regular measurement and reduction of effects out of our internal Environmental Policy and revised it as Sustainability process Policy. For more inclusive, effective and synchronized In this section results As of the end of 2019, the TSKB SMS is managed under In 2019, a structural change was made in the Sustainability Management System the Sustainability Policy dated February 26, 2015. management of the TSKB Sustainability Committee. In Sustainability Policy Sustainability Organization this context, the Executive Vice Presidents of the Bank’s The Bank supports the Sustainability Policy with main activities, such as Project Finance, Corporate Initiatives supported by TSKB complementary policies. In the annex of the TSKB Banking, Corporate Communication, Credit Allocation The ERET Model Environmental and Social Impact Policy, one of the and Monitoring, Budget Planning, Financial Institutions Zero Carbon Banking complementary policies, the Unfunded Activities List, and Development Finance Institutions were selected as TSKB and Climate Change Risks, opportunities and management was published and the sectors which TSKB does not Committee members. approach finance on behalf of responsible banking are listed. Internal impacts Key indicators Risks identified by TSKB regarding climate change This structural change was aimed at planning and TSKB published the Climate Change Declaration managing the Bank’s basic strategies and targets, and in 2016. The declaration sets out how TSKB’s main ensuring the Committee’s work and objectives were SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS THAT TSKB CONTRIBUTES activities are consistent and managed with the climate more inclusive, effective and synchronized. THROUGH USE OF ITS NATURAL CAPITAL change strategy. The activities of the Sustainability Committee are TSKB SUSTAINABILITY POLICY supported by the Sustainability Subcommittee and http://www.tskb.com.tr/en/sustainable-banking/tskb-surdurulebilirlikyonetim-organizasyonu/our-sustainability-policy working groups, where representatives from different departments of TSKB are active members. GRI 102-19, 102-20, 102-21, 102-32 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 71 TSKB AT A GLANCE STRATEGY, PERFORMANCE AND EXPECTATIONS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ASSURANCE LETTERS AND CERTIFICATES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES GRI INDEX NATURAL CAPITAL THE TSKB SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM 7 Sustainability Subcommittee The Sustainability Subcommittee determines clear Sustainability working groups held a number of The Sustainability Subcommittee was established to and measurable annual targets and these targets Working Groups meetings during 2019 within the scope of their projects. roll out sustainability operations to the entire Bank and are reflected in the performance assessment of all Sustainability activities at integrate them with all business processes in parallel participants. The internal coordination of sustainability TSKB were carried out by 7 As a result of both developing activities and with the vision, strategy, goals and business plans of the activities at TSKB is carried out by the Sustainability different Working Groups international good practice and requirements, two new Bank on sustainability and climate change. Composed Coordination Officer. affiliated to the Sustainability working groups were created in TSKB in 2019. of the managers of various departments, Sustainability Subcommittee in 2019. Subcommittee reports to TSKB’s Sustainability The purpose of the Social Impact Analysis Working Committee. Group, established in early 2019, is to accelerate Sustainability Subcommittee Working Groups 2019 the impact of TSKB’s sustainable banking activities. activities In addition to working towards measuring the Sustainability activities at TSKB were conducted by 7 social risks of the financed projects, the Group also different working groups affiliated to the Sustainability identifies actions to increase the social benefits of the TSKB’S SUSTAINABILITY STRUCTURE investments (contribution to the economy, support Subcommittee in 2019. for women employees) and carries out the necessary studies. Highlights from the Activities of the Working Sustainability Committee Groups The Working Group on Cooperation with International Initiatives on Sustainability, which was established at The ISO Management Standards Working Group the end of 2019 and will start working in 2020, was ensured that the Bank successfully completed formed in order to determine the resource requirement the ISO 14001 and ISO 14064 audits through its for the studies to be carried out in the international and Sustainability Coordination Officer activities in 2019. supranational financial institutions and organizations that the Bank cooperates with such as the IDFC, UNEPThe Reporting Working Group oversaw FI, TCFD, UNGC and the IIRC and to organize the work. the coordination of the sustainability reports The appointment of members to the Working Groups Sustainability Subcommittee (Subcommittee) published by the Bank, in particular the 2019 Integrated Annual Report. The Group represented are carried out by the TSKB Executive Committee. As of the Bank at the Future for the Finance Awards. the end of 2019, 10% of TSKB’s employees had taken part in sustainability working groups. The Sustainability The Stakeholders Dialogue Working Group Committee targets are distributed to every employee carried out the communication activities of the in this organization and taken into account within the Bank’s sustainability efforts, continued to carry scope of employee performance evaluation. out zero carbon activities and shared information through the posts on the sustainability themed One of the common goals of the working groups is to Working Groups portals. organize internal training programs and information meetings in order to ensure the capacity development The Sustainability Index Working Group has of all TSKB employees on sustainability. managed relations with the BIST Sustainability Index and international evaluation companies. Cooperation with Within the scope of the evaluations carried out, Istanbul Chamber Dialogue with Sustainability Social Impact International it coordinated the improvements and work that Reporting Gender Equality of Industry (ISO) Stakeholders Index Analysis* Initiatives on Sustainability* should be implemented within the Bank. With the support of the efforts implemented, TSKB remained in the BIST Sustainability Index in 2019. The Gender Equality Working Group chaired the IDFC Gender Equality Working Group, where TSKB served on the Board of Directors in 2019. * Established In 2019 GRI 102-19, 102-20, 102-21, 102-32 GRI 102-12, 102-13, 102-32 72 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 73 TSKB AT A GLANCE STRATEGY, PERFORMANCE AND EXPECTATIONS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ASSURANCE LETTERS AND CERTIFICATES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES GRI INDEX NATURAL CAPITAL The ERET Model INITIATIVES SUPPORTED BY TSKB ERET Model is prepared on A sustainability approach which meets the environmental, social and OHS standards of 2019 ERET RESULTS TSKB is a signatory of many declarations and the basis of standards set by development finance institutions is applied in all Company Project principles within the scope of its sustainability investment projects financed by the ERET Model. High risk A 4 3 commitments. institutions such as the IFC and Furthermore, the ERET Model is prepared on the basis Medium-sensitive risk B+ 15 13 · IDFC Climate Declaration · European Long-Term Investors (ELTI) COP21 the World Bank and seamlessly of standards set by institutions such as the IFC and World Bank and seamlessly overlaps with the criteria in Medium risk B31 23 Low risk C 2 13 Declaration on Transition to a Low Carbon overlaps with the criteria in Equator Principles. Economy · Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEPS) Equator Principles. A model with a multi-disciplinary evaluation ERET, which measures the environmental and social · Joint Statement on Energy Efficiency issued by structure risks of the company’s pre-investment activities and the EBRD and UNEP FI The model, which consists of 45 questions under five investment subject to TSKB financing separately, realizes managed and the actions that need to be taken are · Global Compact Turkey Declaration of main headlines, is based on the investigation of the its risk classification in 4 different categories in parallel with determined and shared with the investors. At TSKB, Sustainable Finance environmental and social impacts and potential legal international standards. lending starts when all of these processes have been · UNEP FI Responsible Banking Principles carried out and the project risk management plan is and financial liabilities arising from the investment (Founding Signatory) project evaluated by TSKB and the other activities of the For category A projects defined as high risk category, the completed. project owner with an existing and forward perspective. investor company is expected to prepare, implement and report an environmental management plan that complies As a representative of an knowledge banking culture, MANAGEMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL According to the environmental and social risk score with international standards by using an independent TSKB has also undersigned a pioneering perspective/ IMPACTS ARISING FROM LENDING ACTIVITIES obtained as a result of the assessment, the means of consultant in addition to the measures and practices approach in environmental and social risk assessment. how to reduce and monitor the impacts is structured determined by current regulations. Upon the initiation of the loan process, the related In line with the principles of Responsible Banking, TSKB plans are followed up by TSKB engineers and/or within a plan prepared in cooperation with the investor. pays special importance to the objective assessment For projects in category B+ and B-, defined as medium independent environmental and social consultants. of the potential risk and impact arising in the The environmental and social rating methodology risk categories, as medium risk categories, the investor TSKB meticulously monitors the implementation of environmental and social evaluation of the projects. of the ERET model is constantly under review by company is expected to prepare, implement and report these plans and manages the environmental and social TSKB teams, and weight of the high-risk subjects are an environmental management plan in accordance with risks of the projects it finances. This process requires a thorough assessment; the increased in the calculation process according to international standards in line with the measures and extent of the environmental and social impacts posed changing conditions, thus ensuring the risk subjects practices determined by the existing regulations. ERET, designed in 2005, has been implemented for are addressed in cooperation with investors prior to all investment projects which TSKB has focused on have greater prominence. lending. In the light of the findings obtained as a result TSKB also addresses environmental impacts from its since 2007. of the project evaluation, the issues that need to be With the revision in 2015, the weight of social issues in operational activities within the scope of SMS. The ERET Environmental and Social Risk Assessment the model has been elevated further to the increasing TSKB meticulously manages the environmental Tool was designed in 2005 and developed with the aims awareness along with the acceleration of social impact impacts arising from its operations. In the work carried of; measurement. out within the scope of SMS, resource consumption In the ERET model, the potential • resetting the competence and experience difference between experts in the environmental and social risk such as electricity, water, natural gas, etc. is followed periodically and efforts towards reduction targets are environmental impacts of category of a project, The results of the Model’s annual evaluation are publicly reported on the Bank’s website. implemented. Variations in natural gas and electricity • ensuring a consistent and standardized methodology, projects such as waste, emissions, • executing performance evaluation over cause and consumption caused by climate change are evaluated with susceptibility. The ERET model is a very powerful tool which TSKB noise, as well as the project’s effect relationships, uses for effective management of environmental and TSKB also aims to increase the rate of waste brought to impacts on stakeholders, Subsequently, it has been applied to all investment social risks. The ERET model, which has been applied since 2007 and has been updated in accordance with the economy by sending it to recycling facilities with projects which are eligible for financing by TSKB expropriation methods, physical regardless of the investment amount and/or credit limit. ongoing requirements, has contributed to the project its waste management plan. Awareness studies are carried out with the aim of reducing waste per person. evaluation process and also made it possible for TSKB and economic displacement are In the ERET model, the potential environmental impacts to build a deep intellectual capital and knowledge All new TSKB employees are trained in the Sustainability Management System and the concept of sustainability also being assessed. of projects such as waste, emissions, noise, as well as base in this area. Besides, environmental and social risk assessment also helps to raise awareness in the is adopted. the project’s impacts on stakeholders, expropriation methods, physical and economic displacement, etc. are institutions financed. With its ERET Model, TSKB generates value which is compatible with the principle The Bank performs all relevant work under the ISO also being assessed. of creating responsible income for both the Bank and its 14001 Environmental Management System Standard. stakeholders. TSKB, which has held the ISO 14001 Certificate since 2007, aims to ensure that it will continue to hold the ISO 14001 certificate. GRI 102-12, 102-13 74 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 75 TSKB AT A GLANCE STRATEGY, PERFORMANCE AND EXPECTATIONS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ASSURANCE LETTERS AND CERTIFICATES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES GRI INDEX NATURAL CAPITAL NATURAL CAPITAL ZERO CARBON BANKING TSKB AND CLIMATE CHANGE TSKB has switched to the zero-carbon banking in The carbon neutral stand approach carried over to 2008. social projects TSKB handles its actions to tackle climate change within the scope of its sustainability strategy. Climate change poses the biggest threat to the future of TSKB not only applies the carbon neutral approach humanity. A rapid transition to a low carbon economy is internally, but also transposes it to the social projects it required to ensure a sustainable world. conducts. The Bank aims to raise a common awareness on climate change and the mitigation of the carbon Following globally developing trends with its footprint as well as improving the awareness on RISKS, OPPORTUNITIES AND THE MANAGEMENT TSKB, which has won the leadership award in past pioneering identity, TSKB started to measure its carbon the matter. TSKB purchased Gold Standard Carbon APPROACH years within the scope of the CDP and which has been footprint in 2006. The carbon footprint measurement Certificates for more than 4,500 tonnes of carbon in the reporting in the field of climate change since 2011, was was reviewed in 2008 by an independent consultancy last 5 years in an effort to offset emissions from banking The negative impacts of climate change are becoming one of the highest rated Turkish financial institutions in company and the Bank consequently launched its zerooperations. The Bank backs the fight against climate more evident day by day. Such negative impacts 2019 with a “B” rating. carbon banking project after the consultancy company change by resetting carbon emissions. Resources such manifest themselves locally and globally in the issued its report. TSKB, which calculates greenhouse gas as wind power and landfill gas are used in offsetting the depletion of water resources, increased floods, forest Climate change and TSKB’s Sustainable Banking emissions from its operational activities and resets them carbon footprint. fires, drought and desertification, deterioration in access Strategy through voluntary carbon markets, brought the carbon to food and the related ecological and social structures. TSKB handles its actions to tackle climate change within neutral zero carbon banking model into practice. In addition to the sustainability workshop, TSKB These developments will pose serious threats in the the scope of its sustainability strategy. Believing that sponsored the “Women Stars of Tomorrow” concert short, medium and long term, as well as bring valuable the formula of qualified development is directly related The Bank has been operating in line with the ISO 14064 within the framework of the IKSV Istanbul Music Festival opportunities if planned well. to sustainable banking, the Bank’s sustainable banking Greenhouse Gas Accounting and Verification Standard during 2019, along with the “Equal Opportunity for strategy is based on three foundations. since 2012. Inclusive Development” conference, the TSKB&KfW 50th TSKB is awarded the highest climate score in the Year of Cooperation Cocktail and FI Cocktail events, Turkish finance sector by the Carbon Disclosure 1To support Turkey’s sustainable development model Efforts to contribute towards reducing emissions and approximately 20 tonnes of carbon emissions were Project (CDP) 2To assume a role in combating climate change for the financed projects are carried out as part of offset. TSKB has implemented many firsts and pioneering 3To contribute to Turkey’s transition to an industrial the SMS. In this context, the grid emission factor for practices in the Turkish financial sector in transition structure which is based on a low carbon economy Turkey is calculated in accordance with international to a low carbon economy and became one of the first scientific methods, and the contribution to a low carbon stakeholders of the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), TSKB’s strategy in this area accommodates not only economy is measured through funded projects. which is one of the world’s most important initiatives in the management of climate change-related matters the field of climate change. but also the evaluation of the relevant risks and opportunities. The Bank executes its sustainability TSKB’s conception of carbon-neutral banking vision and strategy within an accurately-set, efficient • Measuring carbon emissions and having accounts sustainability structure and delivers it in its daily service verified by independent organizations, processes. • Designing strategies and projects to mitigate carbon emissions, • Offsetting emissions through voluntary markets and contributing to capacity development on the TSKB’S REPORTING JOURNEY HAS DEVELOPED IN PARALLEL WITH ITS SUSTAINABLE matter both inside and outside the organization. BANKING MISSION. Strategic reduction targets covering the 2009-2010 Annual Sustainability Integrated Integrated Annual period have been established in order to reduce TSKB’s reporting Reports Reports Report Report consumption in areas such as lighting, natural gas and journey and business travel, which are all sources of emissions. As experience sharing 1950-2017 2009-2015 2016-2017 2018... of 2009, the Bank started to receive electricity from renewable energy sources within the framework of this strategy. This project, which was realized during periods when the limit of being a free consumer was at a level similar to the consumption of producers in the industry, COP reporting since 2011 CDP reporting since 2013 stands as a testament to TSKB’s vision and priorities. Cooperation with NGOs Stakeholder dialogue GRI 201-2 76 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 77 TSKB AT A GLANCE STRATEGY, PERFORMANCE AND EXPECTATIONS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ASSURANCE LETTERS AND CERTIFICATES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES GRI INDEX NATURAL CAPITAL tCO₂e EMISSIONS tCO₂e EMISSIONS (Scope 1)* tCO₂e EMISSIONS (Scope 2)** TSKB AND CLIMATE CHANGE 902 871 451 2016, 2017, 2018 = 0 INTERNAL IMPACTS-KEY INDICATORS 768 416 362 TSKB vigilantly manages environmental impact CO2 emissions from internal activities are calculated Since TSKB uses renewable stemming from its operations. Under the Sustainability according to international standards and actions are energy in all of its service Management System operations, electricity, water, taken to reduce emissions. buildings, its carbon emission natural gas, etc. resource consumption levels are is zero. monitored periodically and relevant precautions as a TSKB targets to raise the amount of waste recycled result of such measurements for reducing consumption every year in an effort to grow the contribution to the 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 are taken. economy pursuant to its own waste management plan. ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION NATURAL GAS CONSUMPTION tCO₂e EMISSIONS (Scope 3)*** (kWh) (m3) 1,146,850 69,820 486 ASSET SIZE NUMBER OF 1,094,723 1,064,530 58,167 420 406 57,122 (TL Billion) EMPLOYEES* 2019 2019 42.0 359 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 2018 2017 2018 2017 38.3 28.9 367 375 The heating and cooling activities of the buildings directly affects the total electricity and natural gas consumption. Thanks to technologies applied so far, average consumption level is under control. Total emissions of the Bank have been recorded at the lowest levels of the last 3 years in 2019, where the cooling gas leakages were realized at minimum. ELECTRICITY WATER WATER CONSUMPTION (m3) PAPER CONSUMPTION (kg) CONSUMPTION CONSUMPTION RECYCLING WASTE (kWh/m2) (m3/Employee) AMOUNT /kg) Due to the longer period of irrigation 7,025 5,785 in 2019 summer, the average water 5,467 2019 2019 2019 6,475 6,453 5,098 consumption per employee appears to be elevated. 63.4 19.6 3,822 Due to construction works such as renovation, relocation of 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 departments etc., the level of waste recycling had been higher in the 68 65 17.6 18.0 12,703 10,530 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 previous years. * Scope-1 Direct Emissions: Emissions from greenhouse gas emitting sources owned and directly controlled by an institution. Greenhouse gas emissions from TSKB targets to raise the amount of waste recycled every year in an effort to grow the contribution to the economy natural gas consumption, company vehicles, power generators, cooling groups, ventilation and firefighting systems constitute examples for Scope-1 emissions. pursuant to its own waste management plan. ** Scope-2 Energy Indirect Emissions: Emissions from the generation of electricity, heat or steam purchased externally by an institution. These emissions are emissions from the raw materials purchased externally in the form of energy such as the electricity purchased. *** Scope-3 Other Emissions: Greenhouse gas emissions which are externally purchased by an institution besides energy and are not directly controlled thereby. Such emissions emanate from outsourced activities and are emitted at source. Examples for Scope-3 emissions include, among others, emissions from personnel * Annual average number of employees taken into consideration in ISO calculations transportation services, taxi and bus travels, flights for business trips and paper consumption. GRI 201-2, 302-1, 302-2, 302-3, 302-4, 303-1, 303-3, 305-1, 305-2, 305-3, 305-4, 305-5, 306-2 GRI 201-2, 302-1, 302-2, 302-3, 302-4, 303-1, 303-3, 305-1, 305-2, 305-3, 305-4, 305-5, 306-2 78 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 79 TSKB AT A GLANCE STRATEGY, PERFORMANCE AND EXPECTATIONS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ASSURANCE LETTERS AND CERTIFICATES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES GRI INDEX NATURAL CAPITAL TSKB AND CLIMATE CHANGE TSKB’s RISK IDENTIFICATION ON CLIMATE CHANGE MEDIUM-AND LONG-TERM CLIMATE CHANGE RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES Incentive mechanism for renewable energy investments in Turkey RISK MANAGEMENT AND ACTIONS Risk management and actions taken OPERATIONAL RISKS TAKEN The assumption that renewable energy A working group on ISO 14001&14064 investment incentives will expire in 2020 and the The main operational risk TSKB faces was established under the SMS. The actions that power generation companies will CLIMATE CHANGE in relation to climate change is the group tracks the carbon footprint from take are under study. POLICIES TURKEY increased greenhouse gas emissions caused by the consumption of domestic consumption. It implements PURSUES action plans aiming to reduce impacts and TSKB reviews the projections of the companies natural resources in the Bank’s service buildings. suggests goals to improve performance. It periodically monitors and reports in its credit portfolio based on the scenario in which the incentive mechanism will be Ahead of the COP21 summit, Turkey shared TSKB’S performance outcomes. terminated. its Intended Nationally PROJECTION Determined Contribution (INDC) target on Extreme weather events might have negative implications on the investments in TSKB’s September 30, 2015 under its emission Climate change portfolio. mitigation strategy. investments in Accordingly, while TSKB, HANDLES THESE RISKS UNDER Risk management and actions taken Turkey’s greenhouse gas Turkey will be A STRATEGIC OVERVIEW WITHIN THE SCOPE OF MANAGEMENT MODELS Extreme weather events and changes including, emissions were projected to rise from 440 million ramped up in the but not limited to, hurricanes, cyclones and changes in precipitation regimes may have tonnes in 2012 to coming period, 1,175 million tonnes negative implications on the investments in by 2030 under current paving the way TSKB’s portfolio. conditions, they will be reduced to 929 million to new business TSKB manages this process by carrying out field visits, monitoring climate conditions in the tonnes of greenhouse opportunities FUNDING RISKS gas emissions (a decrease basin and setting out production projections of 21%) if systematic such as carbon RISK MANAGEMENT AND ACTIONS that are updated continuously. Water scarcity is Another issue TSKB needs to manage in relation to climate change is the risk TAKEN another issue related directly to climate change, measures are taken. trading and demonstrating that both the world and our associated with the projects it funds. The TSKB plans to take part in financing country will soon face severe problems in this TSKB monitors Turkey’s climate finance. negative impact of such projects on the area. relevant policies to investments aimed at mitigating the environment and the society constitutes shape its climate change impact of climate change through its TSKB’s indirect impact on climate change. TSKB is focused on managing this risk through strategy. sustainability-themed funds. the funding products for energy efficiency and resource efficiency. In addition, it closely monitors relevant technological advancements and works with customers on new financial solutions. Climate change leads to negative projections specifically regarding hydropower plants. As well as the financial risk of its energy portfolio, TSKB also monitors the climate risks encompassing drought and basin management. GRI 102-15, 201-2 GRI 102-15, 201-2 80 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 81 TSKB AT A GLANCE STRATEGY, PERFORMANCE AND EXPECTATIONS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ASSURANCE LETTERS AND CERTIFICATES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES GRI INDEX NATURAL CAPITAL TSKB AND CLIMATE CHANGE Turkey’s position on platforms tackling the global climate change and TSKB’S action TSKB acts upon a mission to TSKB AND SUSTAINABILITY INDICES Having declared its Intended Nationally Determined secure funds for Turkey and Borsa Istanbul Sustainability Index Contribution, Turkey underlined its commitment to the TSKB is a member of the BIST Sustainability Index of Paris Climate Agreement. The Agreement has yet to be closely monitors the Conference the Borsa Istanbul, which consists of publicly traded TSKB has been trading in this index since November ratified by the Turkish Grand National Assembly. TSKB has closely monitored and supported Turkey’s entire of the Parties (COP) attended shares of companies with high corporate sustainability 2015 and has been carrying out improvements in its policies within the framework of index rules, performances. negotiation processes. by country delegations, public international regulations and good practices. The Borsa Istanbul designates the companies to Considering the matter from the perspective of financial and private sector players and a be listed in the index according to the results of an Sustainability Indices are indicative tools for institutions, clarification on carbon trading, carbon tax and access to climate finance in Turkey will only come broad range of NGOs. assessment conducted around their environmental investors seeking to invest in companies which adopt sustainability and corporate social policy, environmental management systems, after these processes are completed. This issue, which biodiversity policy, climate change management, board responsibility principles. will create an opportunity for Turkey to outsource the In 2018, TSKB contributed to the Talanoa Dialogue by of directors structure, anti-bribery policy, anti-bribery Joining such indices not only displays TSKB’s approach theme of tackling climate change, is being followed submitting its best practices and activities on Climate systems, human rights policy, human rights systems and towards sustainability related matters, but also meticulously. Change Prevention/Adaptation through TUSIAD. health and safety systems. ensures that the Bank’s decisions and operations on This contribution document included the emission sustainability are acknowledged. Climate action is an important item on the agenda reduction quantities supported through the green The BIST Sustainability Index was launched in 2014 of the TSKB Sustainability Committee. The Bank acts bond, energy efficiency, resource efficiency and with companies from the BIST-30 index. In 2015, the on a mission of securing funds for Turkey and closely renewable energy investments. constituents were enlarged to cover BIST-50 companies monitors the Conference of the Parties (COP) attended and TSKB also underwent the assessment process and by country delegations, public and private sector The contribution submitted by TUSIAD to the United was consequently granted a place in the index following players and a broad range of NGOs. Nations Talanoa Dialogue database was published on this evaluation. the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate In 2015, TSKB actively attended the COP21, where the Change (UNFCCC) website on November 6, 2018. Paris Agreement was established, thus witnessing the contribution made by various parties as well as the Talanoa Submission of TUSIAD TSKB, which meticulously manages the environmental impacts arising structuring of the Paris Agreement. Since then, the Bank https://unfccc.int/documents/183837 has been regularly attending all COP conferences. This from its operational activities and focuses on revealing the positive effect allows TSKB to follow the relevant global agenda. The In 2019, TSKB actively participated in the COP25, the it produces with environmentally friendly practices in every possible area, Bank’s employees share TSKB’s and Turkey’s experience final summit before the start of implementation of on climate change and finance on various platforms as the Paris Agreement. The Republic of Turkey Pavilion bought its first 100% electric and environment friendly vehicle in the last panelists and speakers. The Bank takes advantage of the opportunity to update its operations by following up on participated as a panelist in the “10 years Countdown to 2030” TÜSIAD event. In the panel entitled “Banks quarter of 2019. different interpretations and approaches. acting as market influencers to enhance the common practice” sustainable finance practices at our Bank, the An important formation from the COP23 in 2017 was UN-principles of Responsible Banking, internationally the Talanoa Dialogue. In Pacific languages, Talanoa known declarations and memberships, the interaction means “transparent dialogue”. Countries, private sector with BCSD, information on Turkey’s current situation organizations, NGOs and other organizations submit and the positive diverging position of our Bank in their contribution documents to the database for the perspective of climate change prevention and the Talanoa Dialogue (https://talanoadialogue.com), adaptation were shared. Key agenda items of the including the current situation on negotiation process summit included the 2020 climate actions, carbon for voluntary anti-climate change action, the goals set markets, loss-and-damage mechanisms, the oceans and and the main instruments to be employed for fulfilling the terrestrial ecosystem. those goals. GRI 201-2 82 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 83 TSKB AT A GLANCE STRATEGY, PERFORMANCE AND EXPECTATIONS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ASSURANCE LETTERS AND CERTIFICATES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES GRI INDEX NATURAL CAPITAL TARGETS AND KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 2019 Targets 2019 Realizations 2019 Other Performance Indicators TSKB aims to maintain the share of sustainable and Sustainable Finance / External Environmental Impacts of the Bank inclusive finance portfolio in the total loan portfolio as at least 60%, taking into consideration the investments The share of sustainable and inclusive finance stood at 74%. Renewable Energy Portfolio in renewable energy, energy and resource efficiency Renewable Energy Projects (Number) 294 that will be implemented in Turkey by the end 2020. Total Installed Capacity Funded (MW) 6,069 Share in Turkey’s renewable energy capacity 14% Within the scope of innovative renewable energy Energy usage and being carbon neutral 100% green financing, TSKB plans to sign new renewable energy In 2019, new loans were extended for 739 MW of renewable Financing commitment USD 3.6 billion project loan agreements for a minimum 150 MW installed capacity and 10 new loan agreements for energy, seven energy efficiency and / or resource efficiency Contribution to CO2 emission reductions 11.19 million energy and/or resource efficiency projects by the end projects. (tonnes CO2e/year) of 2020. Share of electricity generation in loan portfolio 36% TSKB is committed to continuing its activities within In 2019, greenhouse gas emissions from TSKB’s operational the scope of zero carbon principles. The Bank’s target activities were calculated according to the ISO 14064 in this context is to monitor and offset its carbon standard and verified by the BSI. The resulting emissions Resource Efficiency Projects footprint in the coming period. have been offset through carbon credits. Raw material savings (tonnes/year) 14.5 million Water Savings (m3/year) 1.2 million TSKB aims to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 10% The Bank’s greenhouse gas emissions for 2019 decreased by Waste Savings (tonnes/year) 15.5 million for the period of 20172021 compared to the average 11% when compared to 2018. Final reporting of this target Energy Savings (kcal/year) 1.53 million of the past 5 years (2012-2016). will be published in the 2021 annual report. CO2 Savings (tonnes CO2e/year) 848 million Holding intra-Bank training events to raise awareness Awareness training on waste reduction, waste recovery and on waste reduction / waste recycling recycling was given to all new TSKB employees. TSKB’s goal is to send all of the paper consumed in its Waste paper consumed in buildings in 2019 was collected Energy Efficiency Projects buildings to recycling facilities and to achieve a 100% separately and sent to recycling facilities. Energy Savings (kcal/year) 4.7 million rate of recycling for paper waste. Contribution to CO₂ emission reductions 2.4 million (tonnes CO2e/year) TSKB’s goal is to manage all environmental and social impacts and greenhouse gas emissions within the ISO 14001 and ISO 14064 audits were successfully Contribution to CO₂ emission reductions through 14.42 million tonnes framework of ISO 14001 and ISO 14064 standards in completed in February 2020. sustainability investments (tonnes CO2e/year) 2019 and 2020. TSKB is committed to carrying out environmental and social risk assessments of all investment loans, Internal Environmental Impacts of The Bank In 2019, TSKB applied the ERET tool, used in the regardless of the project amount, to ensure that the management of environmental and social risks arising from Annual carbon footprint removal 768 tonnes necessary measures are taken in advance based on the lending activities, in all investment loans. determined risk and to monitor the implementation of these measures. Paper consumption in the Headquarters 5,785 kg Recycled glass plastic and paper waste 3,822 kg Electricity consumption in the Headquarters 1,064,530 kWh Natural Gas consumption in the Headquarters 57,122 m3 Water consumption in the Headquarters 7,025 m3 Water usage 19.6 m3/employee 84 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 85 TSKB AT A GLANCE STRATEGY, PERFORMANCE AND EXPECTATIONS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ASSURANCE LETTERS AND CERTIFICATES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES GRI INDEX NATURAL CAPITAL TARGETS AND KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Future Targets / Sustainable Finance and External Environmental Impacts of the Bank Future Targets / Internal Environmental Impacts of the Bank By considering the renewable Within the scope of TSKB plans to sign 10 new The Bank is committed to periodically Zero-Carbon organization studies will continue in energy, energy efficiency innovative renewable loan agreements on energy calculating its carbon footprint and 2019-2020 and with efforts to offset the carbon and resource efficiency energy financing, TSKB aims and/or resource efficiency maintaining its banking operations with footprint by calculating the carbon footprints investments in our country to sign a new loan contract projects by the end of 2020. zero carbon principles by offsetting its of Career Workshops, Sustainability Workshops until the end of 2020, the for renewable energy carbon footprint. and conferences hosted by the Bank and by Bank aims to keep the projects with a total installed purchasing Gold Carbon Credits. share of its sustainable and capacity of at least 450 MW inclusive finance portfolio by the end of 2020. in the total loan portfolio, excluding the finance sector, at least 70%. All paper consumed in buildings will be sent In-bank training programs will continue to be The Bank is committed For the period of 2017-2021, The Bank aims to manage to recycling facilities and the application of held in order to raise awareness about waste to assessing the greenhouse gas emissions all environmental and social a 100% recycling target on paper waste will reduction/waste recovery. environmental and social are projected to decrease impacts and greenhouse continue in the years to come. risks of all investment by 10% compared to the gas emissions within the loans irrespective of the average of the past 5 years framework of ISO 14001 and project amount, ensuring (2012-2016). ISO 14064 Standards in 2019 the necessary measures and 2020. are taken proactively based on the determined risk and monitoring the implementation of these measures. 86 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 87 TSKB AT A GLANCE STRATEGY, PERFORMANCE AND EXPECTATIONS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ASSURANCE LETTERS AND CERTIFICATES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES GRI INDEX CAPITALS ECONOMIC RESEARCH INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL TSKB Economic Research is a key TSKB Economic Research issued over 475 reports in 2019. brand in the Bank’s core business The TSKB Daily Bulletin including daily brief analysis on political/economic developments in the agenda and THE DEEP-ROOTED SECTORAL KNOWLEDGE issues. sector news flow, Macro View including research on GAINED SINCE ITS ESTABLISHMENT, ITS macro-economic data and economic calendar, Yeni Ay POSITION IN THE SECTOR AND THE HIGH A TSKB CLASSIC: ECONOMIC RESEARCH including leading data on the economic calendar of the new month, analysis on the heading economic events REPUTATION OF ITS BRAND CONSTITUTE TSKB’S in Turkey and in the World and studies on development TSKB Economic Research is a key brand in the Bank’s INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL. core business issues. economics are among the periodicals of TSKB Economic Research. KNOWLEDGE-BASED BANKING TSKB’s experienced Economic Research Team shares its TSKB distinguishes itself positively in the sector with its “knowledgeexpertise in the sector, economy and capital markets with The weekly and monthly TSKB Energy Bulletin shares based banking” approach, integrated structure and team of experts the reports it publishes as well as the presentations it analysis and developments in the energy sector. The in their fields. makes inside and outside of the Bank. Monthly Energy Bulletin is published in both Turkish and English. The report, entitled “Sectoral Outlook: TSKB has brought together financial analysis, environmental and TSKB’s economic research publications provide support Energy”, which is prepared regularly every year and technical expertise and economic vision in its business model with to the Bank’s funding, lending, advisory, treasury, which analyses the current state of the Turkish energy the vision of being the first partner to be consulted and preferred marketing and promotion activities and are also a market and addresses trends that will lead the sector in by its stakeholders for the economic, environmental and social key tool in sharing information with sector, company the future, was published in November in Turkish and development of Turkey. representatives and sector associations. English. TSKB sets itself apart and shapes the future with its expertise, TSKB Economic Research Publications with figures Number The Economic Research department also publishes in 2019 of Issues TSKB Look including analysis focused on the macro extensive product range and highly qualified advisors, drawing on 70 TSKB Daily Bulletin economy, industry and development, Theme Look years of development and investment banking expertise. A brief analysis on political/economic developments in 249 the agenda and sector news flow composed of themes pointing to potential topics in In this section Macro View parallel with the Bank’s mid and long-term strategy Knowledge-Based Banking Review and evaluation reports on macroeconomic 76 and TSKB A Commentary including a brief analysis TSKB Economic Research data and the data calendar on a wide range of topics from financial markets to Group Companies TSKB Blog development economics on a technical basis. Short analysis in which current economic and Yatırım Finansman Securities sectoral developments are interpreted, explained and 55 TSKB Real Estate Appraisal shared In 2019, Economic Research also conducted training TSKB REIT Sectoral Outlook: Energy programs on basic concepts in Macro Data Processing Escarus TSKB Sustainability Consultancy Study revealing the energy sector outlook (Turkish 2 and Economic Research report writing principles for and English) relevant stakeholders. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS THAT TSKB CONTRIBUTES Weekly Energy Bulletin 41 Developments in the energy sector The Economic Research department also carried out THROUGH USE OF ITS INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL Monthly Energy Bulletin academic studies during the year. A section of the Monthly developments in the energy sector (Turkish 24 and English) Handbook of Green Economics was written by Burcu Initial public offering valuation reports review 5 Ünüvar, Head of Economic Research. In the book, which TSKB Look is published internationally, TSKB’s green/sustainable Analysis focused on macro, industry and 4 eurobond has taken place as an example of good development practice. Theme Look (Turkish and English) Inclusive reports prepared in the context of 9 diversification of funding and development of TSKB Economic Research 2019 Themes themed loans • Water is The Next Diamond (Turkish and English) TSKB Bir Yorum Analysis on a wide range of topics from financial • Trickle-Down Financing as an Alternative to Direct 2 Finance of SMEs (Turkish and English) markets to development economics on a technical basis • Forced March to the Future: R&D and Innovation Yeni Ay (Turkish and English) Leading data on the economic calender for the new month, analysis on heading economic events in 12 • Paving the Way for Women to Enter the Labor Force Turkey and in the World, studies on development (Turkish and English) economics Total 479 • Employment Priority Regions (English) 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 89 TSKB AT A GLANCE STRATEGY, PERFORMANCE AND EXPECTATIONS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ASSURANCE LETTERS AND CERTIFICATES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES GRI INDEX INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL SECTORAL EVENTS AND THE INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL TSKB BLOG TSKB LIBRARY MEMBERSHIPS AND WORKING GROUPS The TSKB Blog, as a sophisticated platform that TSKB actively works with sectoral organizations to In 2019, the TSKB Library, which has been renewed on various platforms, especially in cases where sheds light on the development agenda strengthen stakeholder communication. architecturally in order to connect with TSKB’s tradition participation from Turkey has been achieved for the first With the TSKB Blog, TSKB has provided a wide range Sectoral events play an important role in TSKB’s efforts and history of expertise and to create a space of sharing time, and increase Turkey’s recognition in these areas. of stakeholders, mainly those in the business world and to reach a wide stakeholder audience and in sharing and creativity for employees, aims to provide better the managers of the future, with access to its know-how its experience. Within the scope of these events, service to all interest groups. TSKB undertakes working group leadership and and experience in various fields such as the economy, TSKB improves its dialogue with its stakeholders and membership in a number of initiatives and carries out development, sectors, sustainability and inclusiveness awareness of sustainability issues is significantly raised TSKB is a member of national and international several projects with other companies sharing the same perspectives. among the participants. associations and initiatives that carry out activities in objectives. areas related to its strategy, activities and objectives. The TSKB Blog offers articles on international trends TSKB was involved as an organizer and sponsor in many The Bank shares its experience within the scope of COOPERATION WITH PUBLIC INSTITUTIONS such as digital transformation, Industry 4.0 and different events throughout 2019 and hosted various these memberships, where it undertakes active duties zero-carbon economy as well as the economic and events throughout the year. In these events, TSKB in working groups, and cooperates closely with other Through its good relations with policy makers and public financial agenda. The Blog aims to keep the pulse of representatives made presentations or participated as member companies. institutions and its ability to offer independent opinions, the development agenda and highlights the rapid speakers on topics such as development economics, TSKB; transformation in various industries. sustainability, inclusiveness, renewable energy, R&D and Contribution to Turkey and the TSKB brand • contributes to the country’s economy and innovation, energy efficiency, women’s employment TSKB’s participation in national and international development, The TSKB Blog is backed by TSKB’s 70-years of knowand investment banking. initiatives contributes to the Bank’s brand value as well • creates diversity of funds for economic development, how and experience. The Blog delivers editorials on as to the country’s. The activities carried out within • offers independent opinions from the private to economic and sectoral developments and offers new TSKB’s work on this issue is not limited to Turkey alone. the scope of memberships reflect positively to TSKB’s public sector, articles and current themes through the eyes of the TSKB employees share the Bank’s expertise in the corporate image and support internal capacity building • serves as a bridge between the private sector and the Bank’s experts to its followers on a weekly basis. Content international arena as speakers at capacity building and awareness raising. These memberships, which public sector, on the TSKB Blog is also released simultaneously on trainings and global summits. present an opportunity to establish communication • contributes to the development of the market and TSKB’s social media platforms. Articles on the TSKB and relations with stakeholders from different regions legislative work, Blog are written by a team of about 20 specialists LIBRARY and cultures, contribute to the promotion of Turkey • enables reputation, truth and promotion. from a range of fields such as development concept or objectives, sustainability, engineering, technology, The TSKB Library, which opened its doors in 1971, energy and tourism. is a specialized library with approximately 14,500 INITIATIVES TSKB TOOK ROLE IN AND WORKING GROUPS LED BY TSKB IN 2019 archive materials, nearly 200 periodicals and electronic database subscriptions. The TSKB Library, which INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT FINANCE CLUB TKYD BOARD MEMBERSHIP offers researchers, especially university students and (IDFC) GENDER EQUALITY WORKING GROUP The Capital Markets Working Group and BIST academics, a wide range of industry-based reports and LEADERSHIP Corporate Governance Index Board Working Group research results, as well as national and international Studies for Integrated Reporting literature and special collections on gender studies and BCSD TURKEY WOMEN’S EMPLOYMENT AND Non-Governmental Organizations Working Group the history of Istanbul. EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES WORKING GROUP Corporate Governance Working Group in Family LEADERSHIP Companies INTEGRATED REPORTING TURKEY NETWORK UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT (ERTA) EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE MEMBER Sustainable Finance Working Group Events organized by TSKB Events sponsored by TSKB Events hosted by TSKB Gender Equality Working Group INTEGRATED REPORTING TURKEY Environmental Working Group • The AFD-TSKB Equal Opportunity • Energy Efficiency Forum • TKYD – Board Meeting Training Committee Diversity and Inclusiveness Working Group Conference • Carbon Summit • TKYD – Member Meeting Implementation Committee • The Koton – Supply Chain Equal • BCSD Sustainable Finance Forum • BCSD Reporting Matters Launch Promotion and Dissemination Committee TURKISH INDUSTRIALISTS AND BUSINESS Opportunity Meeting TKYD Board Membership COMMUNITY ASSOCIATION (TUSIAD) • Istanbul Finance Summit • Corporate Communicators • Syndication Agreement Banking, Economic Analysis, Capital Markets, • Capital Markets Congress Association Blockchain Seminar BCSD TURKEY Taxation, Transformation in Industry, Health, Tourism, • FI Cocktail Sustainable Finance Working Group Environment and Climate Change, Energy, Food, • Turkey Wind Energy Congress • AFD Resource Signing Ceremony Energy Working Group Beverage and Agriculture, Gender Equality, Foreign • Istanbul Music Festival “Women Women Employment and Equal Opportunity Trade, Next Generation Industry, SME, Employment • KFW 50th Anniversary Event Stars of Tomorrow” Concert Working Group and Social Security, Transportation and Logistics, • EBRD Signing Ceremony Circular Economy Working Group BORGIP (Interregional Joint Venture Project), Global • Us Again NGO Meeting New Technology in Sustainability Working Group Relations and EU working groups. Access to Sustainable Agriculture and Food Working • Campus Win Organization Group FOREIGN ECONOMIC RELATIONS BOARD (DEIK) • Ufuk Tarhan Seminar for TEV Sustainable Reporting Working Group ENERGY AND CHINA BUSINESS COUNCIL Scholars MEMBERSHIPS 90 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 91 TSKB AT A GLANCE STRATEGY, PERFORMANCE AND EXPECTATIONS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ASSURANCE LETTERS AND CERTIFICATES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES GRI INDEX INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL GROUP COMPANIES COMPLEMENTARY ACTIVITIES THAT ENHANCE THE A rich product range, with a strong and widespread Contributing to efforts to promote the sector The Industry leader and reference company in the VALUE OFFERED service network Yatırım Finansman, the founder of the sector, conducts field of appraisal and consultancy As one of Turkey’s key institutions, Yatırım Finansman activities for university students in order to contribute TSKB Gayrimenkul Değerleme A.Ş. (TSKB Real Estate The synergy created and the integrated relationship offers both domestic and international individual and to the promotion of the capital markets and meets Appraisal) was established in 2002 to deliver real estate of TSKB with its subsidiaries complements and corporate investors high quality, reliable and rapid students who are interested in the sector. appraisal services. supports the Bank’s business cycle. services to access capital markets through its robust and TSKB has subsidiaries operating in various sectors and widespread network of branches around the country, In 2019, the company launched industry-specific TSKB Gayrimenkul Değerleme provides independent also holds shares in various companies under the Isbank and its online and mobile applications. The Company technical training from online channels for university and impartial services to international standards in the Group. creates added value for its customers through its students, aiming to contribute to the development of areas of valuation, consultancy, valuation of machinery knowledge, experience, expertise and strong capital their financial literacy. and equipment, most efficient and best use analysis, TSKB operates within a holistic structure with its structure gained from its experience dating back more feasibility analysis, market research and sectorial subsidiaries. The Bank’s subsidiaries provide concrete than 43 years in the financial sector. In 2019, the Company expanded its activities in the field analysis, tender consultancy and process management, contributions to the process of generating lasting value of social responsibility by providing book assistance to urban transformation consultancy, construction for TSKB’s stakeholders through their business volumes, With the YFTRADE, YFTRADEMOBILE, YFTRADEINT 12 elementary schools. progress and investment monitoring consultancy, cross-collaboration opportunities and competencies. applications developed by Yatırım Finansman, investors concept development consultancy, review of valuation The Bank acts in synergistic cooperation with Yatırım add value to their savings regardless of time and space reports and green valuation. For 2019, Yatırım Finansman plans to continue holding by making reliable and intermediary transactions in Finansman Securities, TSKB Real Estate Appraisal, TSKB seminars in various regions of Turkey to contribute to domestic and/ or foreign markets with portable or Real Estate Investment Trust and TSKB Sustainability improving the recognition of the capital markets and to The Company carries out all of its operations in desktop computers, new generation smart devices. Consultancy (Escarus) in terms of creating cross-selling financial literacy under a mission borne of its position as accordance with the legal regulations and International opportunities, delivering successful investment banking the first brokerage house in Turkey. Valuation Standards, in line with the principle of Yatırım Finansman operates in strong synergy with and advisory projects. confidentiality. group companies, mainly with TSKB. The company, which has undertaken important projects with TSKB in Growth target by increasing number of active YATIRIM FINANSMAN the field of investment banking, continues to provide customers 145,000 valuation reports in the last 5 years convenient financial instruments to its customers and Yatırım Finansman aims to increase its number of active TSKB Gayrimenkul Değerleme offers deep rooted brings additional value to their investments thanks to customers by 15% every year, both with the existing know-how and expertise in the valuation and appraisal its employees, who utilize their knowledge, experience customers it will activate and the new gains, and to industry along with appraisal and consultancy services and competences to the best of their abilities. increase the share of income it receives from these in all phases of projects starting from the planning customers to 15% of its total revenues. stage through its appraisal experts from its 8 branches A brokerage firm operating on the principle of across Turkey. Responsible Profitability Yatırım Finansman, which stands at the forefront with its Yatırım Finansman is a pioneer with its innovation, technological infrastructure and innovations in mobile Chartered appraisal experts, mostly CMB-accredited, technology and customer-oriented service approach applications, will maintain its investments in technology working at TSKB Gayrimenkul Değerleme determine the and product diversity; it is distinguished in the market infrastructure and online platforms without interruption market value of a wide range of properties from land, as one of the leading preferred brokerage firms which in 2020 in order to provide the most suitable solutions business centers and factories to shopping malls, hotels, adds value to all of its stakeholders with its sustainable for its customers’ needs with new products and services. logistics plants, petrol stations and power stations. As operating results, directs its sector and serves one of the of the end of 2019, the company had published nearly www.yf.com.tr most popular brokerage firms in the market. TSKB REAL ESTATE APPRAISAL 145,000 reports in the last five years. In 2019, Yatırım Finansman met its targets to provide a A performance crowned with awards Turkey’s first capital markets institution satisfactory return to both its investors and stakeholders TSKB Gayrimenkul Değerleme has received four Acting in coordination with TSKB in a variety of within the framework of the principle of “Responsible awards in categories such as Best Real Estate Appraisal investment banking projects Yatırım Finansman Menkul Profitability”. Company in Turkey and Best Real Estate Consultant in Degerler A.Ş. (Yatırım Finansman) is Turkey’s first capital Turkey. markets institution. The company was founded on Yatırım Finansman sets itself apart in the sector with the October 15, 1976 by 13 major banks led by Isbank and rich and diverse range of products and services which Effective organizational structure TSKB. it offers with its status as a Competent Intermediary TSKB Gayrimenkul Değerleme has two main Institution within the scope of the capital market law departments for valuation services “Collateral Earning a reputable place in capital markets thanks to and the communiqué, and its advanced technology Valuation” and “Special Projects”. the rapid and stable progress it attained since the day infrastructure and its investments. it was founded, Yatırım Finansman is one of the leading The Collateral Valuation Department was established players in the market and stands out as a symbol of Yatırım Finansman, in which TSKB has a 95.8% in 2010 to reflect the importance of accurate value trust. shareholding, stands out among investment institutions www.tskbgd.com.tr determination in real estate based loan collateralization and continues to raise the level of service in the studies. The department mainly serves financial industry with its 9 service points throughout Turkey, a institutions. shareholders’ equity which reached TL 116.3 million, and client assets exceeding TL 5.6 billion in 2019. 92 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 93 TSKB AT A GLANCE STRATEGY, PERFORMANCE AND EXPECTATIONS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ASSURANCE LETTERS AND CERTIFICATES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES GRI INDEX INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL GROUP COMPANIES The Special Projects Department, on the other hand, investments. TSKB Gayrimenkul Değerleme maintained estate projects, real estate rights and capital market ESCARUS provides services on special-purpose valuation requests its position in the Special Projects Department as “the instruments, establish ordinary partnerships to realize such as domestic and international project valuation, leading company in the sector doing its job well”. The certain projects, and deliver other operations allowed feasibility, most efficient and best use analysis, project turnover of the Collateral Valuation Department has by the relevant communique of the Capital Markets www.escarus.com goodwill, machinery and equipment park valuation, increased by approximately 20%. Board (CMB) of Turkey. tender consultancy and sector based research. In addition, TSKB Gayrimenkul Değerleme quickly took A balanced investment strategy The Company’s international appraisal services are action to comply with the “Principles to be Followed The core values of TSKB REIT are consistency, carried out by Special Projects Department. TSKB in the Valuation of Non-Real Estate Assets within the transparency, quality management, social responsibility, Gayrimenkul Değerleme realized appraisal studies in Scope of Capital Market Legislation” published on 11 customer orientation and teamwork. Its investment 20 different countries. TSKB Gayrimenkul Değerleme, April, and the “Communiqué on Real Estate Appraisal strategy is based on growth, sustainability and risk which provided valuation services in four more Companies to Operate in Capital Market” published on management through project development. The capital countries where it had not previously served in 2019, 31 August. of the Company, which was established with an initial considers providing its customers with a global capital of TL 10 million, was increased to TL 300 million perspective on valuation standards as one of its primary TSKB Gayrimenkul Değerleme aims to grow by 30% in the 4th quarter of 2018. As of 31 December 2019, objectives. in 2020 by maintaining its unique position and brand TSKB REIT’s asset base had reached TL 536 million and value in the sector. In 2019, the rate of return to the leasable area under its management had reached One of Turkey’s valuation companies, operating with contract of incoming claims was 54%, while in 2020 66,000 m². The leading consultancy company in Turkey’s three different licenses this is planned to increase to 60%. It is expected that sustainable development Besides being authorized by the CMB and BRSA, TSKB the increase in the number of future jobs with special At the end of 2019, TSKB REIT’s real estate portfolio TSKB Sustainability Consultancy (Escarus), which was Gayrimenkul Değerleme is one of Turkey’s leading qualifications combined with accurate perception included the Pendorya Shopping Mall located in established in 2011 and 80.17% of which is owned by companies providing services with three licenses, management, as well as the increase in the awareness Pendik, Istanbul on the E-5 highway, and which was TSKB, provides project-oriented consultancy services having obtained the RICS license, which provides of the market about receiving valuation reports, will inaugurated on December 17, 2009. The shopping mall built on TSKB’s multi-disciplinary expertise, experience international service assurance. lead to a qualified increase in the number of jobs. has an indoor area of 80,648 m² and a leasable area and know-how. of 30,573 m². TSKB REIT’s portfolio also includes two With its staff holding the MRICS, Appraisal Institute and office buildings located in Fındıklı, Istanbul with a total Aiming to be the leader and major contributor in LEED Green Associate certificates, the Company holds TSKB GYO indoor area of 17,827 m², Tahir Han in Karaköy, Istanbul, Turkey’s sustainable development, Escarus carries out its the highest number of international licenses in Turkey in half of the shares in the Divan Adana Hotel, located in operations under three main lines: relation to appraisal and consultancy services. www.tskbgyo.com.tr the city center of Adana and which opened its doors in • Operational Sustainability September 2015, as well as its independent units. • Strategic Sustainability Furthermore, TSKB Gayrimenkul Değerleme is the • Research, Reporting and Education first real estate appraisal company in Turkey to have TSKB REIT and the capital markets Escarus, which has undertaken innovative and obtained the ISO 9001:2008 Quality Certificate granted Subject to capital market legislation, TSKB REIT’s goals pioneering projects with its professional staff, designs by BSI Eurasia Yönetim Sistemleri Belgelendirme Ltd. Sti., include, among others, contributing to real estate and realizes value-added consultancy services in the a UK certification company. The company completed investments so as to ensure they secure a place in area of energy, operational efficiency, environmental its transition to the ISO 9001:2015 Quality Certificate capital markets as a liquid and sound investment and social assessment, technical evaluation, System and now holds the ISO 9001:2015 Quality alternative. TSKB REIT shares have been traded on Borsa management systems, climate change and sustainable Management System certificate. Istanbul’s Collective and Structured Products Market finance. under the ‘TSGYO’ ticker since April 2010. Solid targets Strengthening brand value TSKB Gayrimenkul Değerleme composes its future TSKB REIT targets improving its profitability Escarus ‘ service region covers Turkey as well as strategies and determines action plans according to international markets, carrying out a total of 27 projects, its corporate mission in the framework of its 3-year In line with its investment strategy to increase current lease revenues and to diversify its portfolio, TSKB REIT 20 of which were new in 2019. Escarus has so far carried Strategic Plan. A company seeking to build an efficient real estate out several projects in Qatar, Lebanon, Egypt, Kenya, portfolio will sustain efforts to increase lease revenues from the Pendorya Shopping Mall in 2019. In a similar vein, the Senegal, Cameroon and Congo, and has come a long At the end of 2018, the construction sector entered a Established in 2006, TSKB Gayrimenkul Yatırım Ortaklığı way towards meeting its service export goal. recession which continued for the first seven months of A.Ş. (TSKB GYO, TSKB REIT) is a real estate company Company aims to deploy its competitive edge in the 2019, but there was a recovery in the sector indicators which aims to establish and develop an efficient real region where the Divan Adana Hotel is located and increase its profitability. Escarus, which predominantly carries out projects with in the third quarter of the year. As of August 2019, estate portfolio. private sector companies, has diversified its customer pending housing demand in the market was driven by base in the context of providing services to public a reduction in mortgage interest rates, and an increase TSKB has a share of 88. 67% in TSKB REIT, which is institutions and international organizations. In 2019, was observed in the housing sales due to this effect. supported by the Bank’s corporate know-how and Escarus worked directly with international organizations The mobility experienced in housing sales has also experience dating back 69 years. As a capital market such as the IFC, the EBRD, IsDB and UNDP, and started to reflect positively on the return on housing institution, TSKB REIT is able to invest in real estate, real continued to seek close contact and cooperation with several other organizations as well. 94 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 95 TSKB AT A GLANCE STRATEGY, PERFORMANCE AND EXPECTATIONS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ASSURANCE LETTERS AND CERTIFICATES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES GRI INDEX INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL TARGETS AND KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS GROUP COMPANIES The first and only Turkish company elected to the Collaborative Focus and Approach 2019 Other Performance Indicators Green Bond Principles Advisory Board Escarus continued its knowledge-sharing stance in 2019 Escarus provided framework consultancy services for with many events which it organized and participated Within the scope of TSKB Consultancy Services, 61 advisory projects were completed in 2019 and 479 sector reports and 55 green SRI Bond/Sukuk issuance transactions in 2018 in as a speaker. Escarus managers and specialists blog posts were written by the Economic Research team on five different themes. and was elected to the Green Bond Principles (GBP) attended several events as speakers including partTurkey’s first capital market institution, Yatırım Finansman, acquired 1,077 new customers and a number of activated 2019-2020 Advisory Board in 2019. Escarus is the only time lectures at universities and opening a new service customers in the year 2019. In order to increase financial literacy, nine seminars were provided in 2019 and these seminars company in Turkey to have been elected to the Advisory path in thematic training for the finance sector. Escarus are planned to continue in the coming years. Board, which was established to provide a broader held its Sustainability Workshop, organized annually perspective on green, social and sustainable bond in cooperation with TSKB, at the Özyeğin University in TSKB Gayrimenkul Degerleme converted 54% of requests received in 2019 into contracts. The Company has produced markets and to advise actors in this field. 2019. 145,000 reports in the last 5 years. Multiple projects from various disciplines Escarus in 2020 In 2019, TSKB Real Estate Investment Trust maintained its efforts to increase the rental income of the Pendorya AVM in line Escarus, which has a strong workforce, has successfully Within the framework of 2020 targets Escarus aims to with its investment strategy of increasing existing rental income and diversifying the portfolio. completed many exemplary projects in areas such as strengthen the domestic consultancy structure with Providing advisory services in the field of sustainability, Escarus carried out 27 different projects in 2019 and contacted 49 investment feasibility reviews, technical assessment for a national and global presence, which can meet the different companies in the financial and real sectors to bid. The company increased the number of names in the consultant export credits, environmental and social assessment needs of public and private sector institutions at home pool to 145. and monitoring, sector analysis, sustainability report and abroad, especially those institutions which use and integrated reporting, and sustainability oriented foreign funds, while sharing its knowledge in order to training in addition to projects based on strategic create maximum value from these funds and increasing sustainability. Turkey’s exports of services to its neighbouring region. Future Targets Escarus considers sustainability as a concept which In 2020, Escarus plans to expand its sustainabilityaffects the whole of society and the overall economy, based technical, environmental, social and managerial TSKB’s goal is to transfer the knowledge and experience it has built up over 70 years through far beyond the first-order issues of the environment and consultancy services to wider segments, and sustain its advisory team and four different subsidiaries, and to expand its field of activity. the environment. Based on this approach, the Company its activities on an understanding that sustainability is addresses sustainability in a wide universe in line with at the heart of all technical and financial solutions, and the 16 + 1 Sustainable Development Goals outlined by plans to expand its number of projects and scope. the United Nations and shapes its areas of activity in this direction. In accordance with the Strategic Plan for 2020-2022, in TSKB Advisory Services aims to triple its revenues through its activities carried out by its large staff in 2020. 2020 Escarus aims to increase the number of projects Escarus is focused on building capacity and project it serves to 30, the total number of companies in the development activities in the areas such as sustainable finance and real sectors contacted to bid to 70, and agriculture, rural development, women’s empowerment the number of names in the consultant pool to 250, and gender equality, waste management, industrial commission the project-based time management Yatırım Finansman aims to increase the number of active customers by an average of 15% in 2020 and to symbiosis, the financing of efforts to tackle climate system and carry out business in each of its products increase the share of the revenue from these customers to 15% in total revenues. change and adaptation to climate change, value chain collected in 12 subtitles. analysis and social impacts. TSKB Real Estate Appraisal aims to grow by 30% in 2020 by maintaining its specialist position and brand value SUMMARY OF TSKB’S SUBSIDIARIES WITHIN ISBANK GROUP in the sector. It aims to realize a return rate of requests to the contract of 60% in 2020. Capital TSKB’s Share COMPANY Sector Web Site (TL million) (%) Is Finansal Kiralama A.Ş. Finance 695.3 29.46 www.isleasing.com Is Girisim Sermayesi Yatırım Ortaklıgı A.Ş. Finance 74.7 16.67 www.isgirisim.com TSKB GYO aims to increase its profitability by deploying its competitive advantage in the region where the Is Faktoring A.Ş. Finance 63.5 21.75 www.isfaktoring.com Divan Adana Hotel is located in 2020. Escarus aims to increase the number of projects it conducts to 30, the number of firms contacted to bid to 70, and the number of names in the consultant pool to 250 in 2020. The Company aims to deploy its project-based management system in 2020 and carry out business in each of the products collected in a total of 12 sub-titles. 96 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 97 TSKB AT A GLANCE STRATEGY, PERFORMANCE AND EXPECTATIONS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ASSURANCE LETTERS AND CERTIFICATES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES GRI INDEX CAPITALS SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION SOCIAL CAPITAL Adopting sustainability and Adopting sustainability and inclusiveness as the main business model for Turkey’s qualified development, inclusiveness as the main business TSKB supports investments which generate an environmental and social impact. On the other hand, THE BOUNDS TSKB HAS ESTABLISHED WITH model for Turkey’s qualified the Bank reinforces the total value it generates through ITS STAKEHOLDERS AND THE LONG-TERM development, TSKB supports its long-term projects realized within the scope of Social RESPONSIBILITY PROJECTS THE BANK HAS Responsibility, which it defines as an integrated element UNDERTAKEN IN THIS CONTEXT CONSTITUTE investments that generate an of its unique business model. TSKB’S SOCIAL CAPITAL. environmental and social impact. TSKB’s social responsibility projects are structured in the areas of sustainability and equal opportunities. VALUE CARRIED INTO THE FUTURE A SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION BY LONG-TERM RESPONSIBILITY PROJECTS With these projects, the Bank provides a concrete TSKB embodies its social contribution in Corporate Social contribution to the reproduction of similar good Responsibility projects designed in parallel with its mission of In parallel with its mission of supporting Turkey’s examples in the business world, to touch more people’s supporting Turkey’s sustainable and inclusive development. sustainable and inclusive development, TSKB carries out lives and to the development of a productive ecosystem various awareness, development, education, culture which protects the environment. Implementing various awareness, development, education, and art projects on themes such as climate change, culture and art projects on themes such as climate change, the low the low carbon economy, women’s participation in The Bank’s social capital is crowned with its experience carbon economy, women’s participation in production and equal production and equal opportunities. and sharing efforts, and is convoyed into the future. opportunities, the Bank contributes to the reproduction of similar good examples in the business world, touching the lives of more people and developing a productive ecosystem that protects the environment. In this section Digital Platform for Sustainability: www.cevreciyiz.com TSKB’S SUSTAINABILITY JOURNEY HAS BEEN CROWNED WITH RESPONSIBILITY Sustainability Workshops in Universities PROJECTS AND IS EVOLVING INTO THE FUTURE THROUGH EXPERIENCE SHARING. Zero Carbon Economy Activities Excavations in Patara Ancient City Scholarship Fund: Women Empowerment through Education Digital Platform for Equal Opportunities: www.esitadimlar.com Music Education Support Fund: Woman Stars of Tomorrow Experience sharing and reporting 2008 2012 2016 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS THAT TSKB CONTRIBUTES 2007 Zero Carbon Sustainability Patara THROUGH USE OF ITS SOCIAL CAPITAL cevreciyiz.com Workshops in Banking Ancient City Universities 2017 2018 Women The Women Stars 2018 Empowerment #EqualSteps of Tomorrow through Education 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 99 TSKB AT A GLANCE STRATEGY, PERFORMANCE AND EXPECTATIONS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ASSURANCE LETTERS AND CERTIFICATES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES GRI INDEX SOCIAL CAPITAL SOCIAL CAPITAL SUSTAINABILITY PROJECTS EQUAL OPPORTUNITY PROJECTS TSKB aims to support the Sustainability Workshops in Universities With the Sustainability Workshops it has been The scholarship fund established in cooperation with the Turkish Education Foundation (TEV) extends perception of sustainability organising since 2012, TSKB aims to support the support each year to junior and senior female college students. perception of sustainability of university students, and raise awareness among who are the decision-makers of the future, and to raise students, who are the decision awareness. The workshop is organized in cooperation with the group company, Escarus, which operates in Recently focusing on inclusive development, TSKB provides funds to the private sector to increase women’s makers of the future, through its the field of sustainability consultancy, and is held at a employment. While female employment in companies different university every year. Students participating participating in the Women-Friendly Loan Program sustainability workshops which in the workshops come together with consultants increased by 15% in 2018-2019, the performance have been organised since 2012. from TSKB and Escarus to perform a case analysis on a real banking project focused on issues such as climate growth in development areas such as policies, education, working conditions and representation in change, the low carbon economy and the environment. the management reached 30%. TSKB has purchased more than TSKB has designed and implemented equal opportunities projects in areas where it believes it can 4,000 tonnes of Gold Standard make a difference by evaluating the knowledge and experience it has gained in this process. Carbon Certificates in the last 5 years in order to offset emissions Scholarship Fund: Women Empowerment through Education from banking activities. The participation of women in the economy presents #Equalsteps www.esitadimlar.com tremendous potential to support the welfare of the The digital platform implemented in cooperation Zero Carbon Economy country. The realization of this potential is related to the with BCSD Turkey (Business Council for Sustainable Since 2008, TSKB has been neutralising all carbon empowerment of women through education. It is with Development), www.esitadimlar.com, provides a www.cevreciyiz.com footprints arising from its in-bank activities with Gold this conviction that TSKB established the Scholarship comprehensive guide to all firms seeking to take steps TSKB’s first project in the field of sustainability www. Carbon Credits obtained from renewable energy Fund named Women Empowerment through Education. to promote women’s employment and develop an cevreciyiz.com was implemented in 2007. companies. In addition, the Bank offsets the emissions equal opportunity approach at work. of the concerts sponsored at the Istanbul Music Festival The scholarship fund established in cooperation with Leaving behind its 12th year, www.cevreciyiz.com and the Career Workshops it organizes. the Turkish Education Foundation (TEV) extends #equalsteps, which is a digital library using social media offers a rich variety of content in different areas such support each year to junior and senior female college channels effectively, is moving towards becoming a as business ideas on sustainability, environmentally In order to raise awareness among customers and students. Beyond being a scholarship fund, the project platform hosting successful applications from Turkey friendly designs, alternative energy resources, business partners, TSKB sent New Year greetings for also offers its stakeholders services such as mentoring and the world, roadmaps, standards on the issue and environmentally friendly consumption trends, green three consecutive years based on Turkey’s individual and training with the goal of enabling more women to legislation all qualified research is carried out in this architectural examples and is a source of inspiration for carbon footprint statistics and with name-specific participate in business life every day. field. the sustainable business world. carbon certificates. TSKB also spreads the impact it produces from the Aiming to take responsibility for the transition of the www.cevreciyiz.com project to large sections of society business world to a low carbon economy, TSKB shares through its posts on social media channels. its support and experience on every platform with its Bank spokespersons, as well as its consultancy solutions, social responsibility projects and loans in the fields of Celebrating its 12th year, www. renewable energy, energy and resource efficiency. cevreciyiz.com is a source of Excavations in Patara Ancient City inspiration for the sustainable TSKB considers the protection of cultural and historical artefacts as one of the cornerstones of sustainability. business world. The Bank, along with Isbank and SiseCam, has been supporting the excavations in the ancient city of Patara since 2016, which is an important source of wealth of our country. 100 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 101 TSKB AT A GLANCE STRATEGY, PERFORMANCE AND EXPECTATIONS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ASSURANCE LETTERS AND CERTIFICATES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES GRI INDEX SOCIAL CAPITAL SOCIAL CAPITAL TARGETS AND BASIC PERFORMANCE INDICATORS EXPERIENCE SHARING AND REPORTING 2019 Targets 2019 Realizations Under the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) and inclusive finance, USD 250 Within the scope of this target, million in funding is projected to be provided by the end of 2020 to support women’s TSKB provided USD 121 million employment and the economy in refugee-affected areas. of financing in 2019. In the 2019-2020 period, TSKB aims to raise awareness among wider audiences by As of the end of 2019, www. increasing the number of www.cevreciyiz.com followers. In this context, the Bank aims cevreciyiz.com and #EqualSteps to protect the current visitors and to increase the number of social media follower of the reached 55,518 and 14,895 www.cevreciyiz.com website. followers respectively. The 2019 Sustainability In the 2019-2020 period, the Bank aims to organize at least one Sustainability Workshop Workshop was held at Özyeğin in universities annually in cooperation with Escarus. University. The Women Stars of Tomorrow of “Equal Opportunity” and “Sustainability” Working TSKB’s support for work in the field of culture and art Groups of many national and international initiatives goes back many years. The Bank has been supporting such as BCSD Turkey, TÜSIAD, Global Compact, UNEP FI In 2019, the carbon footprint of In the period 2019-2020, the Bank aims to continue zero-carbon organization activities concerts within the scope of the Music Festival and the IDFC. five events hosted by TSKB with and to offset the carbon footprints of career workshops, sustainability workshops and organized by the Istanbul Foundation for Culture and over 100 outside participants Bank-hosted conferences by purchasing Gold Carbon Credits. Arts (IKSV) since 1990. Announcing its performance results to the public was offset. with annual reports since its inception, TSKB has been TSKB has also taken a lead in its work in this area, offering its value in a transparent approach to all of its neutralising the carbon footprint of the concerts it stakeholders with sustainability reports since 2009 and 2019 Other Performance Indicators sponsored between 2014 and 2017 and enabling the integrated reports since 2016. festival’s first and only ‘zero carbon concerts ‘ to be With APEX Credits, 1,371 SMEs were reached in the last 3 years, and an additional 875 new work force were created. realized. In the past 10 years of its sustainability and integrated reporting practice, TSKB has inspired many companies, As a result of the action plans, the average score of companies improved by 15% in 2019.* TSKB supports the advancement of talented young especially the participants of the banking sector, to female musicians in the international arena in the incorporate sustainability in their business cycles as well In 2019, 39 girls were provided with scholarships on behalf of our external stakeholders. branches of instruments, singing and conducting as transparent stakeholder communication. through the “Women Stars of Tomorrow” Educational The awareness level of 100 female students was increased with targeted activities for female college students. Support Fund, which it launched in the context of the The Integrated Reports published by TSKB are among Istanbul Music Festival in 2018-2019. Female musicians the few leading studies to be considered “case studies” who are accepted at undergraduate or graduate level in workshops, meetings and comparison analyses 3 social and environmental conferences were sponsored in 2019. from a music school abroad, who continue their music set out in initiatives which aim to spread Integrated education abroad or who need support for participation Reporting in Turkey. By participating in 5 sustainability platforms, 20 employees shared information with the business community through in activities such as master classes, orchestra selection, working groups. This number represents nearly 12% of TSKB’s banking staff. international competition or need support for TSKB takes into consideration the contributions and * The application tool consisting of 7 main categories is used for companies to make self-evaluations on the theme credits provided by IBRD and AFD to ensure purchasing instruments which will contribute positively suggestions of all stakeholder groups through the gender equality at work and to improve women’s employment categories in question. to their career development may apply to this fund. stakeholder dialogue surveys and meetings it conducts periodically. TSKB to great lengths to include all relevant Future Targets Experience sharing and reporting is a valuable channel parties in its development journey. through which TSKB provides the opportunity to Diversifying the activity in the field of sustainable development, where TSKB is a pioneer, and raising awareness in our inform and interact with broad audiences regarding Believing that the impact power of social responsibility country the economic, environmental and social impact it has projects has become concrete over time, TSKB is In line with SDGs and inclusive finance, providing USD 250 million in funding by the end of 2020 in order to support generated through its banking activities. focused on implementing the concept of long-term women’s employment and the economy in refugee-impacted areas responsibility. Based on this understanding, TSKB TSKB also establishes productive cooperation will continue to develop projects and contribute to In line with SDGs and inclusive finance, supporting women’s employment, equal opportunities and the economy in refugeewith NGOs which generate value on issues such as new areas that will play a key role in our country’s affected areas and increasing awareness sustainability and women’s employment. TSKB is sustainable development story, just like climate change actively involved in and supports the joint projects and women’s employment. 102 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 103 TSKB AT A GLANCE STRATEGY, PERFORMANCE AND EXPECTATIONS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ASSURANCE LETTERS AND CERTIFICATES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES GRI INDEX CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT 106 Board Members 110 Senior Management 114 Corporate Governance 120 Profit Distribution Proposal 121 Summarized Board of Directors’ Report 122 Other Major Updates on Corporate Operations 123 Risk Management Policies 126 Structure of the Audit Committee 127 Audit Committee Report TSKB AT A GLANCE STRATEGY, PERFORMANCE AND EXPECTATIONS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ASSURANCE LETTERS AND CERTIFICATES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES GRI INDEX BOARD OF DIRECTORS SUAT İNCE ZEYNEP HANSU AHMET HAKAN Board Member UÇAR ÜNAL and CEO Board Member Board Member C ABDİ SERDAR YAVUZ CANEVİ ÜSTÜNSALİH GAMZE YALÇIN Board Member Board Member Board Member (Independent Board Member*) H. ERSİN ÖZİNCE Chairman C C MEHMET ŞENCAN MİTHAT RENDE HÜSEYİN YALÇIN CAN YÜCEL Vice Chairman Board Member Board Member Board Member (Independent (Independent Board Member*) Board Member) C COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIPS OF BOARD MEMBERS BREAKDOWN BY PROFESSIONAL COMPETENCE (%) BREAKDOWN IN TERMS OF INDEPENDENCE&ROLES (%) BREAKDOWN BY GENDER (%) 91% Banking and Finance With respect to Independency 18% Women Credit Revision Committee 3 Independent Members (27%) Audit Committee 8 Members (73%) Corporate Governance Committee With respect to roles Renumeration Committee 1 Executive Member (9%) Sustainability Committee 10 Non-Executive C Chairman of the relevant committee Member (91%) 9% Other 82% Men * Members of Audit Committee are accepted as Independent Members of the Board of Directors as per the provisions of Capital Market Board’s Corporate Governance Communique No: II.17.1., Article 6/(3)-a. GRI 102-18, 102-22 GRI 102-18, 102-22 106 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 107 TSKB AT A GLANCE STRATEGY, PERFORMANCE AND EXPECTATIONS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ASSURANCE LETTERS AND CERTIFICATES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES GRI INDEX BOARD OF DIRECTORS H. Ersin ÖZINCE Suat İNCE Zeynep Hansu UÇAR Gamze YALÇIN Chairman Board Member and CEO Board Member Board Member H. Ersin Özince was born in Havran in 1953 and Suat Ince was born in 1964 in Ankara and graduated from Ms. Zeynep Hansu Uçar was born in Ankara in 1971 and Ms. Gamze Yalçın has a BSc degree in Economics from graduated from Middle East Technical University, Faculty the Economics Department at the Faculty of Economics graduated from Business Administration Department at the Middle East Technical University. She also holds a of Administrative Sciences, Business Administration and Administrative Sciences, Middle East Technical the Faculty of Economics and Administrative Sciences master’s degree in International Banking and Finance from Department. He started his professional career at Isbank as University. Having started his professional career at Isbank of Middle East Technical University in 1993. Ms. Uçar has the University of Birmingham, UK. She attended to the an Assistant Inspector on the Board of Inspectors in 1976. as Assistant Inspector on the Board of Inspectors, he started her professional career at Isbank as an assistant Advanced Management Program (AMP193) in Harvard After working in various managerial positions at Isbank, Mr. was appointed as Assistant Manager of Corporate Loans specialist in Subsidiaries Department. Having served as the Business School in 2017. Ms. Yalçın started her professional Özince was promoted to the post of Deputy Chief Executive Underwriting Division in 1995. Between 1997 and 2008, he Unit Manager between 2007 and 2015, she was promoted career at Isbank as a business analyst in 1993 and has in 1994 responsible for Treasury, Financial Management, was positioned as Manager in various units and branches as Department Manager of the Subsidiaries Department. served in various functions of the Bank. She worked in the Capital Markets, Loans and the Credit Information and of the bank. He served as Deputy Chief Executive of Isbank Ms. Uçar has been a TSKB board member since 2 December establishment and implementation of risk management Financial Analysis departments of the Bank. On 28 October between 2008 and 2016. On 1 April 2016, Mr. Ince was 2015. systems and processes as a risk manager. Ms. Yalçın was 1998, Mr. Özince was appointed as the 15th Chief Executive elected as a member of the TSKB’s Board of Directors and appointed as Deputy Chief Executive in charge of Financial Officer of Isbank. appointed as the Bank’s Chief Executive Officer. Ahmet Hakan ÜNAL Institutions and Investor Relations on 28 November 2017. Board Member Gamze Yalçın was appointed as TSKB Board Member on Elected as a Board member on 31 March 2011, Yavuz CANEVİ Hakan Ünal was born in 1974 in Ankara and graduated 18 April 2019. Due to being a member of the Bank’s Audit 28 March 2014 and 31 March 2017, Mr. Özince performed Board Member from Economics Department of the Faculty of Economics Committee, Ms. Yalçın is an Independent Board Member. the Chairmanship of Isbank Board between 1 April 2011 – Yavuz Canevi was born in Konya in 1939 and graduated and Administrative Sciences, Hacettepe University in 1997. 31 March 2019. from the Finance and Economics Department of the He then earned his MBA degree from Institute of Social Hüseyin YALÇIN Faculty of Political Sciences, Ankara University in 1960. He Sciences, Istanbul Bilgi University in 2007. Having started Board Member Mr. Özince served as the Chairman of the Board of Directors completed a master’s degree at the University of Southern his professional career at Isbank as Assistant Inspector Hüseyin Yalçın holds a degree in Economics from the of the Banks Association of Turkey between 2 November California in 1969. After serving as a Ministry of Finance on the Board of Inspectors in 1998, he was appointed as Faculty of Administrative Sciences at the Middle East 1998 31 May 2000, and 3 June 2002 1 April 2011, as Inspector from 1960 to 1963, he worked in a variety of Assistant Manager of Credit Information and Financial Technical University. He served as an Inspector, Assistant the Chairman of the Board of Directors of TSKB between positions in public and private organizations from 1963 Analysis Division in 2008. Having served as Unit Manager Manager and Branch Manager at Ziraat Bank between 17 April 2009 – 1 April 2011, and the Chairman of the Board to 1989, until being retired from his position as Treasury between 2011 and 2016, he was promoted as Division 1977 and 1990. From 1990 to 2000, Mr. Yalçın served as a of Directors of T. Şişe ve Cam Fabrikaları A.Ş. between Undersecretary in the latter year. Mr. Canevi has been the Head of Financial Analysis Division. Mr. Ünal has been a Deputy General Manager and General Manager Consultant 28 November 1998 14 April 2006, and 1 April 2011 Chairman of the Board of Directors at Türk Ekonomi Bankası TSKB Board Member since 6 April 2018. at Development Bank of Turkey. After the transfer of banks 6 April 2017. since 1996. Mr. Canevi, who had served as a member of to Savings Deposit Insurance Fund, he served as a Senior TSKB’s Board of Directors between 1993 and 2012, was Abdi Serdar ÜSTÜNSALİH Deputy General Manager at Yurtbank, as a Deputy General Mr. Özince has been the Chairman of TSKB’s Board of re-appointed as a member of TSKB’s Board of Directors on Board Member Manager at Sümerbank, as a Deputy General Manager Directors since 4 May 2017. In addition to his duties at the 9 April 2015. Mr. Üstünsalih, born in 1963 in Trabzon, began his career at Kent Portföy and as the General Manager Consultant Bank, he serves as the Chairman of the Board of Türkiye İş as an associate in 1991 at VakıfBank. After having served at Toprakbank from 2000 until 2002. He was elected as a Bankası A.Ş. Members Supplementary Pension Fund and as as manager in various branches and departments at member of the Board of Directors at Isbank in 2011 and a member of the Board of Trustees of Turkish Foundation Mithat RENDE VakıfBank, he served as the Head of IT, Retail Banking, worked for 6 years in same position. Hüseyin Yalçın was for Combating Soil Erosion for Reforestation and the Board Member Banking Operations, Basic Banking Application elected as a member of the Board of Directors at Milli Protecting of Natural Habitats (TEMA Foundation). Born in 1953 in Antakya, Mithat Rende graduated from Development departments. Mr. Üstünsalih became Reasürans between 2017 and 2018. Since 6 April 2018, Mr. the Faculty of Political Science of the University of Ankara Executive Vice President in July 2018 and he has been Yalçın has been a TSKB Board Member. Mehmet ŞENCAN and assumed various duties in Damascus, Rome, Brussels CEO and Executive Board Member of VakıfBank since Vice Chairman (NATO), Sofia, Vienna (OSCE) and London Embassies and 27 May 2019. Moreover, Mr. Üstünsalih is a Board Member Can YÜCEL Having born in Adapazarı in 1964, Mr. Mehmet Şencan Permanent Representatives. Mr. Rende also served as the of the Banks Association of Turkey and the Chairman of Board Member graduated from Management Engineering Department Director of the Human Rights Department at the Ministry Güneş Sigorta A.Ş. Mr. Üstünsalih has been serving as a Can Yücel was born in 1978 in Ankara and graduated from of İstanbul Technical University. He began his career at after completing the post-graduate program in Security Board Member of TSKB since 25 June 2019. the Economics Department at the Faculty of Economics Isbank as an Officer at Galata Branch in 1988 and joined the and International Relations at the London-Royal College and Administrative Sciences, Middle East Technical Board of Inspectors as an Assistant Inspector in 1989. He of Defence Studies. In 2005, he was appointed as Deputy University in 1999. Having started his professional career was appointed to Bursa Branch as an Assistant Manager in Director General of Energy Environment and Water Affairs, at Isbank as Assistant Inspector on the Board of Inspectors, 1997. Mr. Şencan served as the Manager of Antakya, Gebze, served as Chairman of the Trade and Transit Working Group he came to several management positions at SME Loan Denizli and Bursa and Kozyatağı Corporate Branch unit of the Energy Charter Conference in Brussels between 2005 Allocation and Corporate Loan Allocation Departments, 2017, when he was appointed as Deputy Chief Executive of and 2008, and was appointed as Ambassador to Doha respectively, since 2008. Between 2011-2016, Mr. Yücel Isbank. In 2019, Mr Şencan was appointed as the general (Qatar) in 2007. Mr. Rende served as Director General of served as Project Finance Unit Manager under Corporate manager of Anadolu Sigorta. Mr. Şencan, who was elected Multilateral Economic Affairs and Turkey’s Chief Negotiator Loan Allocation Department, and between 2016-2020 as a board member of TSKB on 7 June 2017, has been for Climate Change between 2010-2013. He was also he was positioned as the Department Manager. Can appointed as the Vice Chairman of the TSKB’s Board of a member on the Turkish Nuclear Energy Commission Yücel was appointed as the Başkent Corporate Ankara Directors. Mr Şencan is an independent board member due during the same period. Mr. Rende was appointed as the Branch Manager on 30 January 2020. Mr. Yücel has been to his membership in Audit Committeee. OECD Permanent Representative of Turkey in 2013, and appointed as a member of the TSKB’s Board of Directors on was elected as Chairman of the Executive Committee of 10 June 2016. the OECD in 2014. Having retired in 2016, Mithat Rende has been a member of the TSKB Board of Directors since 4 April 2017. Mr. Rende is an Independent Board Member. GRI 102-18, 102-22 GRI 102-18, 102-22 108 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 109 TSKB AT A GLANCE STRATEGY, PERFORMANCE AND EXPECTATIONS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ASSURANCE LETTERS AND CERTIFICATES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES GRI INDEX SENIOR MANAGEMENT MERAL HASAN HEPKAYA HİDAYET YETKİN MURATHAN Executive Vice KESLER Executive Vice President Executive Vice President President ASLI ZERRİN ECE BÖRÜ GÖKHAN HANCI Executive Vice ÇANAKPINAR Executive Vice President Executive Vice President President SUAT İNCE Board Member and CEO HAKAN AYGEN AZİZ FERİT Executive Vice ERASLAN President Executive Vice President BREAKDOWN BY PROFESSIONAL COMPETENCE (%) BREAKDOWN BY GENDER (%) 55% Business Women 33% 22% Economy 11% Engineering 11% Public Administration Men 77% GRI 102-18, 102-22 110 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 111 TSKB AT A GLANCE STRATEGY, PERFORMANCE AND EXPECTATIONS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ASSURANCE LETTERS AND CERTIFICATES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES GRI INDEX SENIOR MANAGEMENT Suat İNCE Aslı Zerrin HANCI Hakan AYGEN Gökhan ÇANAKPINAR Board Member and CEO Executive Vice President Executive Vice President Executive Vice President Suat Ince was born in 1964 in Ankara and graduated from Aslı Hancı was born in Ankara in 1969 and graduated Hakan Aygen was born in Konya in 1965 and graduated Gökhan Çanakpınar was born in Ardahan in 1964 the Economics Department at the Faculty of Economics from the Faculty of Business Administration at Istanbul from Management Engineering Department of İstanbul and graduated from the Department of Business and Administrative Sciences, Middle East Technical University in 1990. Ms.Hancı began her professional Technical University. Mr. Aygen started his professional Administration, Middle Eastern Techinal University. University. Having started his professional career at Isbank career at Citibank in 1991. She worked at the Treasury career in non-financial sector in 1989. He joined TSKB in Mr. Çanakpınar began his professional career at İpekiş as Assistant Inspector on the Board of Inspectors, he department of Chase Manhattan and BNP Ak Dresdner 1995 as an assistant specialist in the Financial Analysis Mensucat as System Analyst in 1988. After 1990, Mr. was appointed as Assistant Manager of Corporate Loans Bank respectively. Ms. Hancı joined the TSKB Treasury Department and completed his master’s degree on Çanakpınar served as Project Manager at Isbank for six Underwriting Division in 1995. Between 1997 and 2008, he Team in 2005. She was appointed as the Head of Securities Management and Organization at the Marmara University years. In 1995, he started serving as System Analyst at TSKB was positioned as Manager in various units and branches Department in 2007 and as Head of Treasury Department in 1996. Mr. Aygen was appointed to Head of Corporate and appointed as the Head of Application Development of the bank. He served as Deputy Chief Executive of Isbank in 2008. Since 1 January 2017, she has been Executive Finance Department in 2006 and promoted to Group Head Department in 2000. Mr. Çanakpınar promoted to between 2008 and 2016. On 1 April 2016, Mr. Ince was Vice President in charge of Treasury, Treasury and Capital in 2011. Having received his Accounting Finance doctorate Director of Information Technology Unit in 2011. Since elected as a member of the TSKB’s Board of Directors and Markets Operations and Loan Operations. degree from Marmara University in 2013, he was promoted 27 December 2011 he has been working as an Executive appointed as the Bank’s Chief Executive Officer. as Executive Vice President on 28 November 28 2013. Mr. Vice President. He has been in charge of System and Hasan HEPKAYA Aygen has been in charge of Corporate Finance, Economic Network Support, Application Development, Support Meral MURATHAN Executive Vice President Research, Engineering and Technical Consultancy and Services since 1 January 2017. Executive Vice President Hasan Hepkaya was born in Samsun in 1981, and Business Development. Meral Murathan was born in 1977 in Erzurum, and graduated from the department of Business Administration Aziz Ferit ERASLAN graduated from the department of Economics at Boğaziçi at Hacettepe University. He started his career in Garanti Hidayet Yetkin KESLER Executive Vice President University. She started her career in TSKB Treasury Leasing in 2003. After serving in a variety of roles and Executive Vice President Aziz Ferit Eraslan was born in Istanbul in 1969. Following Department in 1998. After serving in a variety of roles positions in Corporate Banking and Project Finance H. Yetkin Kesler was born in Istanbul in 1966 and graduated his graduation from the Public Administration Department and positions, she served as Head of Financial Institutions Departments in TSKB between 2005 2014, he was from the Department of Industrial Engineering at Boğaziçi of Orta Doğu Technical University in 1991, he completed between 2012 and 2019. As of 1 April 2019, Meral Murathan promoted as Head of Project Finance and Head of University in 1989. He started his career as an Assistant the MT Banking School of Ziraat Bank. In 1992, Mr. has been appointed as Executive Vice President in charge Corporate Banking respectively between 2014-2018. As Internal Auditor at Koçbank in 1992. Then he completed Eraslan started his professional career at Isbank’s Board of Development Finance Institutions, Financial Institutions of 1 April 2019, Hasan Hepkaya has been appointed as his master’s degree of Management Engineering at of Inspectors. He completed his master’s degree at the and Investor Relations Departments. Executive Vice President and he has been in charge of Istanbul Technical University in 1993. Mr. Kesler joined Stirling University of Scotland between 1996-1997. At Corporate Banking Marketing, Corporate Banking Sales, TSKB as a Financial Controller Specialist in 1994 and was the Accounting Department of Isbank, Mr. Eraslan was Project Finance and Corporate Communication. appointed as Head of System Development in 2005, as appointed as Deputy Manager in 2000 and as Group Head of Internal Control in 2011, and as head of Enterprise Manager in 2003. Between 2007 and 2012, he was Ece BÖRÜ Architecture and Process Management Department in positioned as the Department Head at the Accounting Executive Vice President 2013. Since 1 January 2017, Kesler has been Executive Vice Deparment, name of which was in time transformed to Ece Börü was born in İstanbul in 1966 and graduated President responsible for Human Resources and Corporate Financial Management Department. Between 2013 and from Management Engineering Department of İstanbul Communications, Enterprise Architecture and Process 2015, Mr. Eraslan was in charge of Chief Executive Officer Technical University in 1988. Ms. Börü joined TSKB as an Management, Corporate Compliance and Pension and Position at Closed Joint Stock Company Isbank. In October assistant specialist in Financial Control Department in Assistance Funds. 2015, he was appointed as Executive Vice President who is 1989. She was promoted to Head of Financial Control in responsible for Board of Inspectors, Risk Management and 2000 and to Head of Board of Internal Auditors in 2006. Internal Control Departments at TSKB. Since 28 November 2013, Ms. Börü has been serving as the Executive Vice President of TSKB. She has been responsible for Loans, Loan Monitoring, Financial Control, Budget and Planning, and Financial Analysis. 112 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 113 TSKB AT A GLANCE STRATEGY, PERFORMANCE AND EXPECTATIONS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ASSURANCE LETTERS AND CERTIFICATES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES GRI INDEX CORPORATE GOVERNANCE SECTION I CORPORATE GOVERNANCE PRINCIPLES Filed in accordance with Capital Market Board Resolution Contact details of the employees who take part in Investor Relations are given in the following table: COMPLIANCE STATEMENT numbered 2/49 and dated January 10, 2019, Bank’s Full Name and Title Phone No Electronic Mail Address Corporate Governance Principles Compliance Report (CRF) Türkiye Sınai Kalkınma Bankası A.Ş. (hereinafter “TSKB” or and Corporate Governance Information Filings (CGIF) can Ece Börü the “Bank”) is subject to “Corporate Governance Principles” be reached at Public Disclosure Platform (PDP). Executive Vice President for Loans, Loan Monitoring, Budget 0 212 334 51 91 borue@tskb.com.tr compliance of which is obligatory for banks within the Planning, Financial Control and Loans Analysis framework of Capital Markets Board (CMB) and banking As one of the leading institutions in corporate governance, Meral Murathan regulations. According to the Bank’s Articles of Association the Bank continued to maintain its position among Executive Vice President for Financial Institutions and Investor 0 212 334 51 24 murathanm@tskb.com.tr Article 55, transactions made and the resolutions of the the highest-rated institutions in 2019. TSKB’s corporate Relations, Development Finance Institutions Board of Directors passed by not observing the said governance rating has been increased to 9.56 from 9.54 obligatory principles shall be deemed as conflicting over 10 as the result of the assessment of Saha Rating on Ayşe Nazlıca 0 212 334 51 94 nazlicaa@tskb.com.tr with the Articles of Association. The Bank applies the October 18, 2019. Head of Financial Instituitons and Investor Relations Department compulsory principles in “Banks’ Corporate Governance Principles Regulation” and “Corporate Governance TSKB’s Corporate Governance Rating Gizem Pamukçuoğlu Communique”. Financial Institutions and Investor Relations Department Senior 0 212 334 52 58 erarslang@tskb.com.tr Main Sections Weight Grade Manager Although most of the non-compulsory Corporate Shareholders 0.25 9.51 Özen Çaylı Governance Principles are met, there are still some Public Disclosure and Transparency 0.25 9.70 Financial Institutions and Investor Relations Department 0 212 334 52 49 halilogluo@tskb.com.tr principles observed incompletely, which are stated below. Stakeholders 0.15 9.85 Manager* There are no conflicts of interest arising from failure to fully Board of Directos 0.35 9.37 comply with the non-compulsory principles that the Bank Özlem Bağdatlı Total 9.56 0 212 334 50 93 bagdatlio@tskb.com.tr has been exposed to. Head of Legal Affairs Department Korhan Aklar In relation to the principle no. 1.5.2, there is no regulation in SECTION II SHAREHOLDERS 0 212 334 50 92 aklark@tskb.com.tr Legal Affairs Department Senior Manager the Bank’s articles of association except for the provisions stipulated by the relevant legislation on minority rights. 2.1. Investor Relations Department * Ms. Özen Çaylı, Investor Relations Department Manager, holds Capital Market Activities Advanced Level Certificate (Certificate No:204985) and Capital Market Board Corporate Governance Rating Specialist Certificate (Certificate No: 701337). Duties and responsibilities of “Stakeholder Relations In relation to the principle no. 4.6.1, a dedicated effort Department” are executed pursuant to the for Board of Directors performance assessment was not fundamentals of corporate governance which are delivered. transparency, accountability, responsibility and equality 2.2. General Assembly Meeting the year of 2018, was approved by majority of the by the departments of Financial Institutions&Investor In relation to the Principle 4.6.5, due to corporate policies, During the Ordinary General Assembly held on March shareholders’ votes. Relations and Legal Affairs. “Investor Relations the Bank does not announce the remuneration of the 19, 2019, the shareholders were given the right to ask • Review and approval of the balance sheet and profit Department Manager”, who holds Capital Market senior management and board member on a personal questions and one information request was received and loss statement of the Bank for the year 2018, was Activities Advanced Level Certificate and Corporate basis. The total figure is announced in the annual report. and answered by TSKB. adopted by majority of the shareholders’ votes. Governance Rating Specialist Certificate, serves as a • Determination of allowance for the Members of the member of Corporate Governance Committee as per The Ordinary General Assembly Meeting of 2018 was Board of Directors, was approved by the majority of the provisions of the governing legislation. held in the physical and electronic environment, with the shareholders’ votes. the participation of 213,393,521,324 shares representing • In line with the Bank’s Profit Distribution Policy such capital in the total amount of 2,133,935,213.252 TL and in light of the economic developments in our of 280,000,000,000 shares corresponding to the Bank’s country and the world, the Bank’s long-term growth total capital of 2,800 million TL. The participation rate targets and sustainable and strong equity levels, was 76%. and assessment by the Banking Regulation and Supervision Agency about our Industry, decision The following resolutions were discussed and voted by to maintain the profit in equity accounts was the shareholders at the meeting: unanimously approved by the shareholders. • Constitution of the Meeting Council in accordance • Determination of the attendance fee to be paid to the with the Articles of Association of the Bank and Members of the Board of Directors has been resolved delegation of authority to the Meeting Council for the by majority of the shareholders’ votes. execution of the minutes of the General Assembly, • Appointing the independent audit firm, was adopted was resolved unanimously by the shareholders. by the majority of the shareholders’ votes. • Review and discussion of the Annual Reports of the • Amendments of Articles 11, 23 and 47 of the Board of Directors, Declaration of Compliance with Bank’s Articles of Association were adopted by the the Corporate Governance Principles and Reports of shareholders unanimously. These amendments can the Auditors and Independent Auditors regarding be accessed through the Public Disclosure Platform the accounts and transactions of the Bank within (PDP) statement dated 11.04.2019. 114 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 115 TSKB AT A GLANCE STRATEGY, PERFORMANCE AND EXPECTATIONS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ASSURANCE LETTERS AND CERTIFICATES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES GRI INDEX CORPORATE GOVERNANCE • The Bank’s renewed Profit Distribution Policy has approved, whereby a sum of TL 33,046,281.15 should SECTION IV – BOARD OF DIRECTORS been adopted by the shareholders unanimously. The be set aside as the statutory reserve fund out of the net renewed Profit Distribution Policy can be accessed financial year profit in the amount of TL 660,925,623.04 4.1. Board Members from the PDP disclosure on 01.03.2019. that was generated in 2018 and that a sum of Board of Directors consists of 11 members, which allows the activities of the Board of Directors to be organized effectively. • The Bank’s renewed Information Disclosure Policy TL 627,879,341.39 be transferred to extraordinary Information about the Board of Directors’ members and the CEO are given in the following table and their detailed resumes was submitted for the Information of the General reserves and maintained in equity accounts. It was are accessible at the Bank’s website and annual reports. Assembly. The renewed Disclosure Policy can be stated In the General Assembly Invitation published on accessed from the PDP disclosure on 01.03.2019. PDP on 01.03.2019 that no dividend will be distributed. Educational Working Date of Committees Full Name Title Duties out of the Bank • Donations made during the year, 160,000 TL, were Background Experience Appointment and Title submitted for the Information of the General SECTION III – STAKEHOLDERS Middle East Technical Assembly. In addition, the determination of the upper The stakeholders, who have an interest in the bank, University, Economics Board limit for donations to be made in 2019 was approved including shareholders, employees, creditors, clients, Hakkı Ersin Özince and Administrative 43 years 4 May 2017 Chairman with the majority of shareholders. suppliers, non-governmental organizations, the Sciences / Business • Empowering the Members of the Board of Directors government and potential investors submit their Administration with regards to responsibilities and transactions set complaints and recommendations to the Bank by Audit forth in Turkish Commerce Code, Articles 395 and 396. means of a communication form that can be found on Istanbul Technical Committee Anadolu Anonim Türk • Pursuant to the Article 1.3.6. of the Comminique for the Bank’s website. Furthermore, stakeholder analysis Board Vice University/ Chairman, Sigorta CEO, İş Faktoring Mehmet Şencan * 31 years 7 Jun 2017 the Adoption and Implementation of the Corporate done every two years contributes in this aspect. Chairman Management Credit Revision A.Ş. Board Chairman, JSC Engineering Committee Isbank Board Vice Chairman Governance Principles applicable by the Capital Member Markets Board, shareholders were informed that İş Employees are kept informed about all bank decisions Bankası A.Ş. and TSKB are companies operating in the and developments that may be of concern to them Middle East Technical TSKB A.Ş. CEO, Yatırım Board Credit Revision University, Economics Finansman Menkul same sector and that some members of the Board of and feedback is solicited from them on such issues. Suat İnce Member and 32 years 1 Apr 2016 Committee and Administrative Değerler A.Ş. Board Directors are currently working for İş Bankası A.Ş. and The Bank, which continues to develop mechanisms to CEO Member Sciences/ Economics Chairman Vakıflar Bankası T.A.O. in management positions. include employees into decision-making processes, Türkiye Ekonomi Bankası receives employee feedback via committee activities Board Chairman, FNSS Throughout the period, there has been no transaction as well as periodic surveys. Besides, having gathered University of Southern Savunma Sistemleri A.Ş. where the decision had to be left to the discretion of employees from every department, the Bank also has Board Yavuz Canevi California/M.A. In 39 years 9 Apr 2015 Board Chairman, Global the General Assembly due to independent board of put the “HR Representatives” project into practice in Member Economics Relations Forum Founding directors’ member rejections. The resolutions of the 2017. There are no trade union activities Member, TÜSİAD High General Assembly meeting were published on PDP on Advisory Council Member 28.03.2019. The participation of employees to the management is Engie Yönetim Enerji incorporated to the internal regulations. The employees Hizmetleri ve Ticaret 2.3. Profit Distribution Policy are authorized according their signing rating in Independent London-RCDS/Security Sustainability A.Ş. Independent Board Dividend Payment Proposal of the Board of Directors pursuant to the Directive of Türkiye Sınai Kalkınma Mithat Rende Board and International 31 years 4 Apr 2017 Committee Member, Turabder-Türkiye is prepared in the framework of Profit Distribution Bankası transfer of Representation Authority published Member Relations Member AB Derneği Member, Global Policy approved by the General Assembly regarding the on Trade Registry Newspaper at page 483, dated Relations Forum Member sensitive balance between shareholders’ expectations November 11, 2005 with the number 8944. and the bank’s growth requirement and the profitability of the Bank. Principles governing the Bank’s dividend Employees are able to convey their opinions and distribution are arranged in the Articles of Association, claims to the relevant persons and have contribution Article 47, and there are 100 founders’ shares that to the company resolutions by means of “I Have a receive a portion of the profits distributed subject to Recommendation” and “Complaint Form” that they can these principles. access on the Bank’s intranet. Moreover, there are many committees that are formed by the Bank employees, The Bank’s dividend payment policy was disclosed to concentrating on various issues. Participation of the shareholders on the Bank’s Turkish and English websites. employees in management is also made possible by means of these committees. In the General Assembly Meeting on 28.03.2019, in line with the Bank’s Profit Distribution Policy and in light of economic developments In our country and the world, the Bank’s long-term growth targets and sustainable and strong equity levels and assessment by the Banking Regulation and Supervision Agency about our Industry, the Proposal by our Board of Directors was unanimously GRI 102-25, 102-26, 102-27, 102-28, 102-29, 102-30, 102-31, 102-33, 102-34 116 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 117 TSKB AT A GLANCE STRATEGY, PERFORMANCE AND EXPECTATIONS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ASSURANCE LETTERS AND CERTIFICATES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES GRI INDEX CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Educational Working Date of Committees Board Member Ms. Ebru Özşuca, resigned from her post There is a secretariat in place for the purpose of Full Name Title Duties out of the Bank on 08.04.2019. At the Bank’s Board of Directors Meeting notifying and organizing the communications with the Background Experience Appointment and Title T. İş Bankası A.Ş. held on April 8, 2019, it was decided Ms. Gamze Yalçın to Board of Directors. Summoning the Board of Directors Corporate Subsidiaries Department be appointed as a Board Member within the framework meetings are made by means of phone at first, which is Governance Head, Anadolu Cam of Article 363 of the Turkish Commercial Code. followed by written invitation. Committee Sanayi A.Ş. Board Member, Middle East Technical Member, Paşabahçe Cam Sanayi Board Member, Mr. Mehmet Emin Özcan resigned from Each board member is entitled to a single vote. As University, Economics Zeynep Hansu Board Remuneration A.Ş. Board Member, Trakya his post on 31.05.2019. Mr. Abdi Serdar Üstünsalih has stipulated in the Articles of Association, the board and Administrative 26 years 2 Dec 2015 Uçar Member Committee Cam Sanayi A.Ş. Board been elected as a member of the Board of Directors as convenes with a simple majority of its membership Sciences / Business Member, Member, Türkiye Şişe part of the Article 363 of the Turkish Commercial Code. and decisions are passed by a simple majority of those Administration Sustainability ve Cam Fabrikaları A.Ş. present. Committee Board Member, Trakya In regard to the “Policy for Female Participation in the Member Yatırım Holding A.Ş. Board Board of Directors” composed in 2014, assessments have The Board of Directors convened 47 times between Chairman been done by the Board of Directors every year. As of 1 January 2019 and 31 December 2019. In this period, İstanbul Bilgi Credit December 31, 2019, there was two women members in there was not any significant transaction with any T. İş Bankası A.Ş. Financial Board University/ B.A. Revision the Board of Directors. With the Board Decision dated affiliated parties that would require approval of General Ahmet Hakan Ünal 21 years 6 Apr 2018 Analysis and Intelligence Member in Business Committee March 26, 2019 the targeted period was extended. Assembly. Department Head Administration Member Selçuk University, MS. 4.2. Operating Principles of the Board of Directors The possible losses resulting from mismanagement of T. Vakıflar Bankası T.A.O. Public Administration, Board of Directors gathers periodically, at least once Board of Directors and all Bank managers are under the Abdi Serdar Board CEO, Güneş Sigorta A.Ş. Gazi University, 29 Years 25 Jun 2019 a month, or more where the Company’s business coverage of USD 25 million insurance, which is signed Üstünsalih Member Board Vice Chairman , Vakıf MS. Information Enerji Board Vice Chairman so dictates. The meeting date is set so as to allow by Türkiye İş Bankası A.Ş. for its group companies. Technologies participation of all Board Members, and Board of Audit Directors meetings are held by participation of all Information on the Board of Directors Committees is Committee T. İş Bankası A.Ş. Executive members, excluding the exceptional cases under available in the Investor Relations section of the Bank’s Member, Vice President, İş Yatırım unforeseen circumstances. website under Investor Relations Middle East Technical Corporate Ortaklığı A.Ş. Board Board University, Economics Governance Gamze Yalçın ** 27 Years 18 Apr 2019 Chairman, Isbank AG Board In principle, Board Members participate in every 4.3. Remuneration Policy Member and Administrative Committee Vice Chairman, Turkiye meeting. Moreover, Board Members may choose to The Bank carries out its activities regarding Sciences/Economics Chairman, Risk Yöneticileri Derneği participate Board Meeting on electronic environment. remuneration policies within the framework of the Remuneration Founding Member related banking regulations and Capital Market Committee Chairman The Board’s first meeting is preferably held on the same regulations. TSKB’s Remuneration Policy is available Middle East Technical day that the board is elected. At this first meeting, on the Bank’s corporate website in Investor Relations Board University, Economics the chairman and deputy chairman are elected, duty section. This policy covers all managers and employees. Hüseyin Yalçın 42 years 6 Apr 2018 Retired bank employee assignments are made, and committees are formed. Member and Administrative Sciences/ Economics Members of the Board of Directors receive no financial Credit Revision A draft of the agenda for a board meeting is prepared benefits other than the monthly honorarium that is T. İş Bankası Başkent by the CEO and finalized in line with the suggestions paid to them. The amount to be paid as an honorarium Middle East Technical Committee Corporate Branch Manager, Board University, Economics Member, of the chairman and other directors. The information is determined in line with the proposals put forward by Can Yücel 20 years 10 Jun 2016 Isbank AG Board Member, Member and Administrative Sustainability and documents pertaining to items on the board’s shareholders at a General Assembly. JSC Isbank Georgia Board Sciences/ Economics Committee agenda are sent out to members to be reviewed at Vice Chairman Member least four days before the meeting. In situations where No member of the Board of Directors is or has ever been * Members of the Audit Committee were accepted as Independent Members of the Board of Directors as per the provisions of Capital Market Board’s Corporate this is not possible, every effort is made to ensure that the direct or indirect recipient of any cash loan or nonGovernance Communique No: II.17.1., Article 6/(3)-a. all members are equally informed about the matters loan extended by the bank. ** The working principles of the Board of Directors Committees are available on the Bank’s website. involved. The total amount of financial benefits paid such as bonus, dividend, wage, etc. to members of Board of Directors and senior management is TL 13,873 thousand. Other payments with respect to travelling, accommodation and etc. paid to members of Board of Directors and senior management is TL 307,787. GRI 102-25, 102-26, 102-27, 102-28, 102-29, 102-30, 102-31 118 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 119 TSKB AT A GLANCE STRATEGY, PERFORMANCE AND EXPECTATIONS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ASSURANCE LETTERS AND CERTIFICATES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES GRI INDEX PROFIT DISTRIBUTION PROPOSAL SUMMARIZED BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT Pursuant to 47th article of our Articles of Association General Assembly shall be offered to reserve 2019 Net Profit of TL Esteemed shareholders, 701,644,528.69 as; You are all welcome to the 70th Ordinary General Assembly Meeting of our Bank. 1. in accordance with paragraph (a) of the relevant article, allocation of TL 35,082,226.43 which is 5% of the net profit as legal reserves, We would like to convey our kindest regards to our shareholders, their representatives and guests for honoring the hall 2. Allocation of the remainder TL 666,562,302.26 as extraordinary reserves. and hereby submit to your examination and approval the Board’s Annual Report and Independent Audit Report for 2019 accounting period as well as profit and loss statements. We hereby submit to the General assembly to entitle the Board of Directors for all procedures related to all issues projected above. Due to trade wars and elevated geopolitical risks, global economic growth lost momentum in 2019 in line with expectations. This led to synchronized reductions in global policy rates. Note On The Profit Distribution Proposal Turkey’s economy, on the other hand, has passed from a rebalancing process into a recovery period in the second half of In accordance with the Bank’s Dividend Policy; considering the national and global economic conditions, the long the year and, subsequently, improvements in financial indicators began to be observed. Inflation fell from 20.3% at the end term growth targets of the Bank, the sustainability of its strong equity structure, as well as the Banking Regulatory of 2018 to 11.8% at the end of 2019, and USD/TL curency rate stabilized within the 5.70-5.90 range. GDP growth, which was and Supervisory Agency’s guidance regarding the banking sector, it will be submitted to the approval of the General 0.9% in 2019, is expected to be replaced by a strong recovery in 2020. Assembly, as shown in the attached 2019 Profit Distribution Proposal that of the net profit of TL 701,644,528.69, TL 35,082,226.43 will be reserved as general legal reserve, and the remaining TL 666,562,302.26 will be set aside as Although the banking sector loans started the year with a strong growth, it turned to a flat course with local elections and extraordinary reserves under shareholders’ equity. increasing geopolitical risks in the second quarter. In the second half of the year, loan growth gained momentum with the recovery in economic activity and the Central Bank’s stimulation of loan growth through reserve requirements. At 2019 yearend, the asset size of the banking sector rose to TL 4.5 trillion with a hike of 16% and its total shareholders’ equity expanded by 17% to reach TL 492 billion. Total loans in the sector lifted up by 11% to reach TL 2.7 trillion. TSKB maintained a robust and resilient balance sheet and capital structure. As of December 31, 2019, on a year-on-year basis, the Bank elevated: • its shareholders’ equity by 20% to reach TL 5,666,896 thousand, • its loan stock by 13% to reach TL 31,424,168 thousand, • its total assets by 10% to reach TL 42,000,098 thousand. The Bank posted a net income of TL 701,645 thousand with a surge of 6% year-on-year in 2019. As of 2019 year-end, our capital adequacy ratio, return on equity, return on tangible equity (calculated excluding market valuations of subsidiaries), return on assets and NPL ratio stood at 17.8%, 13.5%, 16.1%, 1.8% and 3.5% respectively. Availing ourselves of this opportunity, we would like to thank our business partners, employees and all stakeholders for their contribution to such successful results and extend our warmest regards to our shareholders that honored our General Assembly meeting. TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. BOARD OF DIRECTORS 120 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 121 TSKB AT A GLANCE STRATEGY, PERFORMANCE AND EXPECTATIONS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ASSURANCE LETTERS AND CERTIFICATES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES GRI INDEX OTHER MAJOR UPDATES ON CORPORATE OPERATIONS RISK MANAGEMENT POLICIES Disclosures on Private Audit and Public Audit During the Accounting Period Information On Risk Policies Based On Risk Types During the current accounting period, a private audit has not been conducted at the Bank as per Articles 207, 438 and 439 of TSKB’s Risk Management Policies and application principles of these policies consist of written standards established by the the Turkish Commercial Code. The Bank is subject to public audit by public institutions such as the BRSA, CBRT, CMB and the Board of Directors and implemented by the Bank’s executive management. Competition Authority. If any matters requiring a public disclosure arise in relation to the audits conducted at the Bank by public institutions, they are publicly shared through material disclosures. According to TSKB’s Risk Management Policies, the main risks exposed by the Bank are identified as the credit risk, assetliability management risk (market risk, structural interest rate risk, liquidity risk) and operational risk. A Risk Management Disclosures on Administrative or Judicial Sanctions Imposed on the Company and Board Members for Acts Violating Department is formed within the Bank in order to manage the risks the Bank is exposed to in parallel to the risk policies Legislative Provisions ensuring compliance with those policies and related application principles. Information on court proceedings are provided in the annual report and in section III/4 of part five of the non-consolidated audit report. TSKB’s Risk Management Department actively participates in all processes regarding the management of risks and submits regular reports to the Board of Directors, Audit Committee, senior management and related units of the Bank. Its duties, Related Party Transactions responsibilities and structure have been established by the Regulation of Risk Management Department. Information on the Bank’s related party transactions are provided in the footnotes for the Audit Report. The conclusion of the Subsidiaries Report for 2019 drafted pursuant to Article 199 of the Turkish Commercial Code No. 6102 is provided below: Credit Risk Management Policy Credit risk is the possibility that the credit customer or a counterparty of an agreement being unable to fulfill the obligations “Between our Bank and Türkiye İş Bankası A.Ş., our controlling shareholder, and the companies affiliated thereto, there are no pursuant to the conditions of the agreement. Whilst the most common and apparent source of credit risk is the loans granted legal procedures completed under the instructions of our controlling shareholder to the benefit of the latter or of a company by the Bank, other banking services carrying counterparty risk also carry credit risk. In this regard, all related banking activities affiliated thereto and no measures taken or avoided to the benefit of our controlling shareholder or a company affiliated are evaluated within the scope of credit risk. thereto. Credit risk is measured and managed by taking into account the structure and characteristics of the credit, the terms and Furthermore, the commercial transactions, which are concluded between our Bank and Türkiye İş Bankası A.Ş., our controlling conditions of the credit agreement and financial conditions, the structure of the risk profile until the end of the maturity shareholder, and the companies affiliated thereto and are provided in the report in detail, are transactions required by our in parallel with possible market movements, guarantees and collaterals, internal risk ratings, possible changes in ratings Bank’s operations and are completed over the equal values applicable in the market. They are compliant with the principle during the risk exposure period, concentrations (one single company, group of affiliated companies, sector, country, etc.) and prescribed in Article 202 of the Turkish Commercial Code No. 6102 that the controlling shareholder cannot exercise its control compliance with limits established by the Board of Directors to prevent such concentrations. in a way to inflict loss on its subsidiaries. In measuring credit risk, the Internal Rating Based Model is used for the purposes of monitoring and controlling the credit risk There are no decisions against or transactions inflicting loss on our Bank under the instructions of Türkiye İş Bankası A.Ş., our and providing early warning. controlling shareholder, and the companies affiliated thereto.” Maximum effort is taken to ensure that limits and policies in agreements with foreign and domestic sources do not diverge Information on Operational Fields for which Support Services are Outsourced Pursuant to the Regulation on to a significant degree from the policies and limits set by the Bank. Despite the clauses in the agreements deviate from the Outsourcing of Support Services by Banks and Information on the Persons and Organizations Supplying Such existing policies, they are still accepted to be in force. Services The following services the Bank used in 2019 fall into the scope of the Regulation on Outsourcing of Support Services by Asset-Liability Management Risk Policies Banks promulgated on November 5, 2011. All financial risks arising from the Bank’s assets and liabilities other than credit risk are defined as asset-liability management risks. The market risk of the trading portfolio, structural interest rate risk and liquidity risk fall into this category. 1. Server Hosting for Emergency Services provided by Superonline İletişim Hizmetleri A.Ş. 2. Riskfree Treasury Valuation System Service provided by Risk Aktif Danışmanlık Eğitim Yazılım Sanayi ve Ticaret Ltd. Şti. 3. Swift Service Office Main Connection Service provided by Fineksus Bilişim Çözümleri Ticaret A.Ş. 4. Internal Rating Model and Assets-Liabilities Management Infrastructure and Maintenance Service provided by Prometeia SPA 5. EFT Software Maintenance Service provided by Mor Teknoloji Yaz. İlet. Bil. Dan. ve En. San. Tic. Ltd. Şti. 6. Building and Employee Security Service provided by Tepe Savunma ve Güvenlik Sistemleri San. A.Ş. Amendments in the Articles of Association During the Year The amendments of Article 11 titled “Issue of Bonds and Other Securities, with a right to purchase-replace”, Article 23 titled “Board of Directors’ Remuneration” and Article 47 paragraph d titled “Distribution of Dividend” of the Articles of Association of our Bank have been registered by the Registry of Commerce of Istanbul dated 10.04.2019 and promulgated in the Official Gazette No. 9810 dated 16.04.2019. GRI 102-11, 205-1 122 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 123 TSKB AT A GLANCE STRATEGY, PERFORMANCE AND EXPECTATIONS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ASSURANCE LETTERS AND CERTIFICATES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES GRI INDEX RISK MANAGEMENT POLICIES I Market Risk Management Policy Operational Risk Policy Market risk is the possibility of portfolio or position loss in the scope of trading portfolio resulting from fluctuations in interest Operational risk is defined as the loss occurring from processes, humans and systems because of deficiencies or faults or rates, stock prices, commodity prices or exchange rates on the financial markets. The purpose of market risk management is mistakes or outside events. Compliance to the laws and ethical standards are also included in this definition. to manage, within the appropriate parameters, the risks which the Bank might be exposed to with a proactive approach and thus maximize the Bank’s risk adjusted return. Operational risks are managed by applying special controls and precautionary measures to the fundamental operational areas of the Bank, by forming an appropriate internal control system and distributing the authorities throughout the Bank, Market risk is managed by using consistent risk measurement and criteria such as fluctuation level of interest and/or prices by testing and controlling in detail all the Bank’s operational systems, by obtaining a consistency between the internal and and Value at Risk calculations, establishing appropriate procedures regarding the performance of control and observing external systems and having an independent data backup system. compliance with the identified risk limits. The Bank respects the principle of segregation of duties in order to reduce the risk of fraud, manipulation or mistakes. The Interest rate risk, exchange rate risk, stock and commodity price risk and exchange risks constitute the major elements of functions which should be separated are determined as (i) starting a transaction, (ii) giving authority and approval, (iii) market risk. In order to control these risks in a healthy manner the core principal is to manage transactions carried out in recording the transaction, (iv) confirming the transaction, (v) reliable custody services, (vi) monitoring and auditing, (vii) money and capital markets such that they do not form concentration in terms of instrument, maturity, currency, interest upgrading of IT systems and activities of Daily operations. It is essential that the transaction data will be recorded in the type and other similar parameters, and in a “well diversified” manner in accordance with their risk levels. Moreover, the system by using the IT applications right after the transaction has been made. creditworthiness of issuers of financial instruments causing market risk is evaluated and monitored carefully. Operational risks are measured by applying the “Basic Indicator Approach” method. In calculating market risk, the Bank uses two major approaches, namely BRSA Standard Method and Value at Risk (VaR). Accuracy of the VaR model is ensured by back testing which is the comparison between the calculated Value at Risk and Risk Management Policy For Subsidiaries realized losses. In addition; stress tests are applied in order to determine the impacts of events, with low possibility of The Bank pays attention that the fundamental principles and standards related to the risk management systems and realization but substantial losses, on Value at Risk. processes are also applied in the subsidiaries. Consolidated Risk Policies are determined and approved by the Board of Directors. It is essential for the subsidiaries that these policies are adopted, specified risk management systems and processes II -Structural Interest Rate Risk Management Policy are applied in order to have consolidated risk management and to act in consistency with the risk limits set in the group level. Structural interest rate risk is the risk of change in the Bank’s capital due to possible changes in interest rates through differences in the repricing period and the interest structures of interest-sensitive assets and liabilities monitored in banking Policies Regarding Other Risks book. Other risks are Model Risk, defined as the risk of loss due to erroneous design or implementation failures of the models used for pricing, credit facilities and risk measurement, Strategy Risk, occurring because of false or ill-timed decisions; Structural interest rate risk is managed through the provision of consistent information on structural interest rate risk to all and Reputation Risk, defined as the reputation loss of the Bank in the eyes of the customers and markets. These risks are organizational levels by using risk measurement and criteria such as the level of fluctuation of interests, interest shock and mentioned in the Bank’s Risk Policies in order to increase the awareness throughout the Bank. stress test calculations. The inconsistencies of the asset-liability structure are monitored and measured on currency basis and at determined maturity intervals taking into account their re-pricing. TSKB manages interest risk by acknowledging that it threatens the Bank’s income, capital, liquidity and reputation and consists of factors such as re-pricing risk, yield curve risk, base risk, spread risk and option risk. III Liquidity Risk Management Policy Liquidity risk is defined as the risk of failure to meet the on and off balance sheet liabilities when due. This includes the case when the Bank does not have enough cash or cash inflows in order to fulfill the cash outflows completely and on time and thus incurs a loss. There are two kinds of liquidity risk, one is related to funding for capital markets and trading activities, the other one is related to market. Liquidity risk related to funding is the risk which occurs when investment and funding needs are not fulfilled timely or with a reasonable cost because of inconsistency in the cash flows. Liquidity risk related to market occurs when the Bank cannot close its positions on time or with reasonable costs because the markets are not deep, have problems, or the Bank cannot enter the markets. It is essential to have maximum diversification regarding to funding sources, markets, instruments and maturities in order to have an effective and sustainable liquidity management. In liquidity management, the portfolio structure is formed in line with the functions of revenue generating from the portfolio and management of the market risk. Risk return balance is constantly monitored whereas the liquidity needs are followed up at all times. GRI 102-11, 205-1 GRI 102-11, 205-1 124 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 125 TSKB AT A GLANCE STRATEGY, PERFORMANCE AND EXPECTATIONS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ASSURANCE LETTERS AND CERTIFICATES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES GRI INDEX STRUCTURE OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Activities Of The Committees Established Within The Scope Of Risk Management, And Names And Surnames Of The AUDIT COMMITTEE’S ASSESSMENT ON FUNCTIONING OF INTERNAL AUDIT, INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK Chairmen And Members Of These Committees MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS AND THEIR ACTIVITIES IN 2018 Audit Committee Audit Committee held 34 meetings in 2019. In these meetings, the Audit Committee carried out activities to fulfill the Audit Committee is composed of 2 members, which were elected among the non-executive Members of the Board of duties and responsibilities specified within the scope of “Activities of the Committees established within the scope of Risk Directors. Currently, Audit Committee members are Mr. Mehmet Şencan and Ms. Gamze Yalçın. Management, and Names and Surnames of the Chairmen and Members of these Committees” Section of the Annual Report, and the “Regulation On The Evaluation Process of Banks’ Internal Systems and Internal Capital Adequacy”. Audit Committee is responsible for; · Ensuring the effectiveness and adequacy of the internal audit, internal control and risk management systems within the Internal audit, internal control and risk management activities in the Bank are carried out by the Board of Internal Auditors, framework of the relevant legislation, on behalf of the Board of Directors, Internal Control Department, and the Risk Management Department. Relevant departments’ duties and responsibilities · Supervising the functioning of the Internal systems, accounting and reporting systems within the framework of the Law were specified by the regulations approved by the Board of Directors. All three departments carry out their activities under and relevant regulations, and maintaining the integrity of the information produced, the Executive Vice President in charge of Internal Systems, who is independent from executive activities and executive units · Making pre-assessment for the Board of Directors to choose independent audit corporations, and corporations that and directly reports to the Audit Committee. Evaluating the internal systems established to cover all branches and units, provide rating, valuation and support services, and regularly monitoring the activities of these corporations that sign and subsidiaries subject to consolidated audit, their functioning, and maintaining their adequacy and effectiveness are contract with the Bank after they are chosen by the Board of Directors, among the Board of Directors’ priorities. Within the scope of internal systems, Board of Directors’ duties and responsibilities · Continuing and enabling the coordination of the Internal audit activities of the subsidiaries subject to consolidation in a are fulfilled by the Board of Directors, Audit Committee, Executive Vice President who is in charge of internal systems, and consolidated manner, Departments of Internal Audit, Internal Control and Risk Management. · Regularly receiving reports from the units established within the scope of Internal systems, and from the independent audit corporations with respect to their execution of the tasks and reporting the detected malfunctions to the Board of Board of Internal Auditors Directors. Board of Internal Auditors provides assurance in; i) carrying out bank activities in line with the Law and other relevant legislation as well as the internal strategies, policies, principles and targets of the bank, and ii) effectiveness and adequacy of All members of the Audit Committee attended the 34 meetings held by the Audit Committee in 2019. the internal control and risk management systems. Planning and carrying out its audit activities with risk oriented approach, the Audit Board evaluates the potential risks in Headquarters units, one branche, subsidiaries and Bank’s information systems DIRECTORS WITHIN THE SCOPE OF INTERNAL SYSTEMS and processes, and evaluates whether or not internal control, risk management and corporate governance systems are compliant, effective and efficient as well as examining the accuracy and reliability of accounting records and financial reports. Executive Vice President In Charge Of Internal Systems: Aziz Ferit Eraslan Professional Board of Internal Auditors does not only deliver findings as a result of the audits it conducts. It also develops opinions and Term of Office Worked Previously In Education Experience suggestions that will prevent deficiencies, faults and misconducts (if any) from repeating, develop processes, increase Isbank Financial Management Master’s Degree efficiency and effectiveness and strengthen internal systems. Furthermore, it follows up the findings and related measures 4 Years 27 Years taken closely as well as providing information about the developments with respect to the issues tracked in the Audit Department, CJSC Isbank (Russia) Abroad Committee meetings held during the year. Head of Internal Auditors: Mehmet Sungun In 2019, Board of Auditors conducted 37 audits in terms of banking processes and information systems in total composed Professional Term of Office Worked Previously In Education of Head Office departments, Bank’s 3 subsidiaries as well as 6 firms from which the Bank procured banking processes and Experience support services. Financial Analysis, Loans, Corporate Master’s Degree in 6 Years 26 Years Banking, Risk Management Departments Turkey As a result of the audits and assessments made in 2019, there have not been any material finding identified, that may have negative impact on the Bank’s activities, and hinder the Bank from fulfilling its liabilities. It was concluded that; the Bank’s Head of Risk Management: Fuat Sönmez Internal control and risk management systems functioned well, Bank’s activities had low risk in general, financial and legal Professional reports were accurate, Bank complied with the legislation. Term of Office Worked Previously In Education Experience System Development and Quality In conclusion; the internal audit system was effective and successful in measuring, detecting and eliminating risks with its risk Bachelor’s Degree in 3,5 Years 21 Years Management, Board of Internal Auditors, oriented approach, qualified human resources, experienced and prudent management. Turkey Process Management Departments Head of Internal Control: Simay Kimyacı Professional Term of Office Worked Previously In Education Experience Bachelor’s Degree in 3 Years 21 Years Treasury Department Turkey 126 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 127 TSKB AT A GLANCE STRATEGY, PERFORMANCE AND EXPECTATIONS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ASSURANCE LETTERS AND CERTIFICATES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES GRI INDEX AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Internal Control Activities were carried out to comply with the various legal regulations and Risk Guidelines. The Internal Control Department is responsible for the presence of the internal control system that covers control activities to identify in advance and manage the risks to which the Bank may be exposed in its efforts to achieve its aims; to ensure that Besides, activities of the Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process (ICAAP) and its reporting process, were coordinated. the Bank’s operations are effective and productive; to protect the Bank’s assets; to comply with current laws and regulations; Within this scope, detailed stress tests and scenario analysis were conducted, and projections were made for future period’s and to safeguard the reliability and integrity of the accounting and financial reporting systems. Within this scope, internal capital requirement. control activities are carried out by the competent and experienced internal control personnel. Other than routine operations in 2019; infrastructural improvements were made for compliance with the draft regulations According to Banking Regulation and Supervisory Association (BRSA) regulation published in the Official Newspaper used by the BRSA, existing reporting and systematic monitoring of limits. on June 11, 2014 dated with the number 29057 internal control activities are a partf of all of the executive functions of the Bank. It is expected that a structure in compliance with the COSO componentsis established, units carry out self-assessment, The Audit Committee continued to report to Board of Directors regarding the operational results, necessary measures, function processes and potential threads induced by the operations and the assessment of weaknesses for these threads and practices and its comments on other critical issues that ensure the Bank’s operatations to continue reliably. the adverse impact of the related threads and weakneses are analysed. The Audit Committee monitored the compliance of the Bank to regulations pertaining to internal control, internal audit and Accordingly, “Operational Risk Map” workshop was launched by the Internal Control Department, within the 2018 masterplan. risk management and to Bank policies and practices which are approved by the Board. As a result of the Audit Committee’s As a result of this workshop, establishment of a strong corporate culture and measurement of discrete and inter-related evaluations and reviews, it was seen that the Bank’s internal systems were effectively functioning as they were planned, and operational risks will be realized as stated in Guide to Operational Risks of BRSA. that the internal controls made for financial reporting were effective. The Audit Committee evaluated the support services that the Bank procured, and monitored the efforts of taking certain measures for managing the risks efficiently in the It is targeted with the project that Triple Defense Line that is an effective method to manage risks and control the operational procurement process. Moreover; independent audit results, yearly and quarterly financial results as well as independent audit activities in the future will be developed. Therefore, it is targeted to provide a concrete basis for forcefulnes and the reports were assessed with the independent auditors. During their operations related to the Bank; the independency of the perfection of the assurance to the stakeholders, legal entities, employees, and the Board of Directors and to compose a rating agencies’, independent auditors’ and appraisal companies’ and the sufficiency of the resources allocated to them were meaningful operational loss data pool that will be a base or advanced measurement appraoch. reviewed. As the process of preparing an “Operational Risk Map” started in 2018 with the Treasury operations, it will continue with the With respect to the activities and functioning of internal systems internal audit, internal control and risk management in other banking activities and it will be repeated every year to follow the developments of the operational risk levels. 2019; we believe that the activities performed were highly qualified and satisfactory. Risk Management The risk management process, which is organized under risk management regulations and serves for the establishment of a companywide common risk culture, is of such a structure in which risks are defined in compliance with international regulations governing the performance of measurement, analysis, monitoring and reporting activities. Risk Management Department; i) carries out these activities developing the systems needed within this scope, ii) monitors risks’ compliance Mehmet Şencan Gamze Yalçın with policies and standards, and Bank limits, iii) continues the activities for compliance with the relevant legal legislation and Chairman of the Audit Committee Audit Committee Member the Basel criteria. Risk measurements specified in reporting, are made with an approach developed in internal models besides the standard approach used in legal reporting, while they are also supported with the stress tests. Risk Management Department submits its detailed unconsolidated risk management reports prepared on monthly basis and consolidated risk management reports on quarterly basis to the Board of Directors via the Audit Committee. In 2019, in addition to the reports presented to the Board of Directors; risk and capital adequacy measuring and reporting activities for legal and MIS purposes continued. 128 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 129 TSKB AT A GLANCE STRATEGY, PERFORMANCE AND EXPECTATIONS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ASSURANCE LETTERS AND CERTIFICATES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES GRI INDEX ASSURANCE LETTERS AND ISO CERTIFICATES 132 Independent Auditor’s Report on The Annual Report of the Board of Directors 134 Independent Assurance Statement 136 Reporting Guidance 138 ISO 14001 Certificate 139 ISO 14064 Certificate TSKB AT A GLANCE STRATEGY, PERFORMANCE AND EXPECTATIONS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ASSURANCE LETTERS AND CERTIFICATES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES GRI INDEX 132 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 133 TSKB AT A GLANCE STRATEGY, PERFORMANCE AND EXPECTATIONS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ASSURANCE LETTERS AND CERTIFICATES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES GRI INDEX Limited Assurance Report Our Independence and Quality Control to the Board of Directors of Türkiye Sinai Kalkınma Bankası A.Ş. We have complied with the independence and other ethical requirements of the Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants issued by the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants, which is founded on fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, We have been engaged by the Board of Directors of Türkiye Sinai Kalkınma Bankası A.Ş. (“TSKB” or the “Bank”) to perform an professional competence and due care, confidentiality and professional behaviour. independent limited assurance engagement in respect of the Selected Sustainability Information (“Selected Information”) stated in the Türkiye Sinai Kalkınma Bankası A.Ş. Integrated Annual Report (“the 2019 Integrated Annual Report”) for the year ended Our firmapplies International Standard on Quality Control 1 and accordingly maintains a comprehensive systemof quality control 31 December 2019 and listed below. including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. Selected Information The scope of the Selected Information for the year ended 31 December 2019, which is subject to our independent limited assurance Our Responsibility work, set out in the “Reporting Guidance” on 136-137 pages of the 2019 Integrated Annual Report is summarised below: Our responsibility is to form a conclusion, based on limited assurance procedures, on whether anything has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the Selected Information has not been properly prepared in all material respects in accordance with • Share of sustainability themed loans in loan portfolio as at end of 2019 the Reporting Guidance. We conducted our limited assurance engagement in accordance with International Standard on Assurance • Gender ratio of management Engagements 3000 (Revised), Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information’, and, in • Gender ratio of Board of Directors respect of greenhouse gas emissions, International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3410, Assurance Engagements on • Training hours (average hours of training per employee) Greenhouse Gas Statements, issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board. • Participation rate for employee satisfaction survey • Internal environmental impacts of the Bank’s activities A limited assurance engagement is substantially less in scope than a reasonable assurance engagement under ISAE 3000 and ISAE .. Electricity consumption (kwh) 3410. Consequently, the nature, timing and extent of procedures for gathering sufficient appropriate evidence are deliberately .. Natural gas consumption (m3) limited relative to a reasonable assurance engagement. The procedures we performed were based on our professional judgment and .. Water consumption (m3) included inquiries, observation of processes performed, inspection of documents, analytical procedures, evaluating the .. Paper consumption (kg) appropriateness of quantification methods and reporting policies, and agreeing or reconciling with underlying records. .. Electricity intensity (Consumption in kWh/m2) .. Water intensity (Consumption in m3 / Staff ) Given the circumstances of the engagement, in performing the procedures listed above we: .. Recycled waste amount (kg) • Total installed capacity funded from renewable energy portfolio as at end of 2019 • making inquiries of the persons responsible and the Bank’s management for the Selected Information; • Share of this installed capacity in Turkey’s renewable energy capacity as at end of 2019 • understanding the process for collecting and reporting the Selected Information. This included analysing the key processes and • Contribution to CO₂ emission reduction as at end of 2019 controls for managing and reporting the Selected Information; • evaluating the source data used to prepare the Selected Information and re-performing selected examples of calculation; Our assurance was with respect to the year ended 31 December 2019 information only and we have not performed any procedures • performing limited substantive testing on a selective basis of the preparation and collation of the Selected Information prepared with respect to earlier periods or any other elements included in the 2019 Integrated Annual Report and, therefore, do not express by the Bank; and any conclusion thereon. • undertaking analytical procedures over the reported data. Criteria Limited Assurance Conclusion The criteria used by the Bank to prepare the Selected Information is set out in Reporting Guidance’ (the ‘Reporting Guidance’) on Based on the procedures we have performed and the evidence we have obtained, nothing has come to our attention that causes us page 136-137 of the 2019 Integrated Annual Report. to believe that Bank’s Selected Information for the year ended 31 December 2019, is not properly prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the Reporting Guidance. This report, including the conclusion, has been prepared for the Board of Directors The Bank’s Responsibility of the Bank as a body, to assist the Board of Directors in reporting Türkiye Sinai Kalkınma Bankası A.Ş.’s performance and activities The Bank is responsible for the content of the 2019 Integrated Annual Report and the preparation of the Selected Information in related to the Selected Information.We permit the disclosure of this report within the 2019 Integrated Annual Report for the year accordance with the Reporting Guidance. This responsibility includes the design, implementation and maintenance of internal ended 31 December 2019, to enable the Board of Directors to demonstrate they have discharged their governance responsibilities control relevant to the preparation of Selected Information that is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. by commissioning an independent assurance report in connection with the Selected Information. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Board of Directors of Türkiye Sinai Kalkınma Bankası A.Ş. as a Inherent Limitations body and the Türkiye Sinai Kalkınma Bankası A.Ş. for our work or this report save where terms are expressly agreed and with our prior Non-financial performance information is subject to more inherent limitations than financial information, given the characteristics of consent in writing. the subject matter and the methods used for determining such information. The absence of a significant body of established practice on which to draw to evaluate and measure nonfinancial information allows for different, but acceptable, measures and measurement techniques and can affect comparability between entities. The precision of different measurement techniques may also vary. Furthermore, the nature and methods used to determine such information, as well as the measurement criteria and the precision thereof, may change over time. It is important to read the Selected Information in the context of the Reporting Guidance. In particular, the calculations related to carbon emissions is based upon, inter alia, information and factors generated internally and/ or derived by independent third parties as explained in the Reporting Guidance. Our assurance work has not included examination of the derivation of those factors and other third party information. Istanbul, 2 March 2020 134 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 135 TSKB AT A GLANCE STRATEGY, PERFORMANCE AND EXPECTATIONS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ASSURANCE LETTERS AND CERTIFICATES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES GRI INDEX TÜRKIYE SINAI KALKINMA BANKASI 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT – REPORTING GUIDANCE Internal Impacts (excluding This indicator only means the environmental impacts of the Bank’s activities from its headaffiliates) office buildings during the reporting period. This reporting guidance (“Guidance”) provides information on the data preparation and reporting methodologies of indicators within the scope of This indicator means the total electricity consumption includes electricity used for heating and the independent audit in the 2019 Türkiye Sınai Kalkınma Bankası (“Bank”) Integrated Annual Report. These indicators include share of sustainability Electricity consumption (kWh) other business operations that require electricity during the reporting period themed loans in loan portfolio, gender ratio of management, gender ratio of Board of Directors, training hours, participation rate for employee satisfaction survey, internal environmental impact of the Bank (electricity, natural gas, water and paper consumption, electricity and water intensity, This indicator means the total natural gas (NG) consumption includes NG used for heating, Natural gas consumption (m3) recycled waste amount), total installed capacity funded from renewable energy portfolio, Share of this installed capacity in Turkey’s renewable energy cooking and other business operations that require natural gas during the reporting period. capacity and contribution to CO₂ emission reduction. It is the responsibility of the Bank’s management to ensure that appropriate procedures are in Water consumption (m3) This indicator means the total municipal water consumption during the reporting period. place to prepare the indicators mentioned above in line with, in all material respects, the Guidance. Natural Paper consumption (kg) This indicator means the total paper and cardboard consumption during the reporting period. The data included in this guideline is for the FY 19 (1 January – 31 December 2019), fiscal year ended December 31, 2019, comprises only the relevant This indicator means the total electricity usage (in kWh) divided by the floor area (in m2) operations that are the responsibility of the Bank and excludes information about group companies. Electricity intensity (kWh/m ) 2 occupied by the Bank during the reporting period. General Reporting Principles This indicator means the total water consumption (in m3) divided by the average number of In preparing this guidance document, consideration has been given to following principles: Water intensity (m3 /staff ) Bank employees during the reporting period. The average number of employees is calculated • Information Preparation – to highlight to users of the information the primary principles of relevance and reliability of information; and based on the number of employees at the end of June and December. • Information Reporting – to highlight the primary principles of comparability / consistency with other data including prior year and This indicator means the weight of recycled waste of glass, plastic and paper during the Recycled waste amount (kg) understandability / transparency providing clarity to users. reporting period. Total installed capacity funded This indicator means the total installed renewable energy capacity, in MW, partially or totally Key Definitions Natural from renewable energy portfolio financed by the Bank as at the reporting period end. For the purpose of this report, the Bank defines: Share of this installed capacity This indicator means the total renewable energy capacity, in MW, financed by the Bank Natural in Turkey’s renewable energy compared against Turkey’s total installed renewable energy capacity as at the reporting period Capital Indicator Scope capacity end. This indicator means the percentage (%) by financial value (in USD) of the Bank’s sustainabilityContribution to CO₂ emission This indicator means the estimated total CO₂ emissions reduction from the renewable energy themed loans (excluding loans to financial sector) compared to the Bank’s total loan portfolio Natural reduction projects financed by the Bank as at the reporting period end. as at the end of 2019. This percentage was obtained by excluding the loans extended to the financial sector while including APEX loans in the Bank’s total loan portfolio. Sustainable themed loans are listed under 3 main headings: 4. Data Preparation APEX Loans: The Bank defines APEX loans as the loans provided only to SMEs and exporters Electricity, Natural Gas and Water Consumption through other financial institutions including leasing Within the scope of the calculations, only the Bank’s own buildings are included, and consumption related to subsidiaries or group companies are not companies, commercial banks and participation banks included. While calculating these values, to decontaminate the calculation, the average number of employees, based on the number of employees at the end of June and December, and the average m2 information are used. Themed loans Titles under sustainable loans are: Natural gas and water consumption data are obtained from supplier meters, service provider invoices and daily measurement counters of the Bank. • Energy Generation (excluding thermic power plants) Since these consumptions are reported on the type of supply unit, no conversion factor is used. • Energy and Resource Efficiency Share of sustainability themed • Environment Electricity and water intensity data are obtained from the ratio of annual consumption to the number of employees obtained by averaging the Bank’s Financial employee figures at the end of June and December. loans in loan portfolio • Sustainable Tourism • Electricity and Gas Distribution (not the whole loan but the infrastructure loans within the sub-sector) Total installed capacity funded from renewable energy portfolio • Education&Health This indicator is calculated by assessing the renewable energy portfolio of the Bank. In this context, the total installed renewable energy capacity of • Small&Medium Enterprises Hydroelectric Power Plant (HPP), Geothermal Power Plant (GPP), Biomass Power Plant (BPP), Solar Energy Plant (SEP) and Wind Power Plant (WPP) • Women Employment renewable energy projects, partially or totally financed by the Bank, was used for calculation and for partially financed projects, the Bank’s financing • Occupational Health and Safety ratio for the project was not taken into consideration. • Export loans • Innovation Share of this installed capacity in Turkey’s renewable energy capacity This indicator is calculated by assessing the renewable energy portfolio of the Bank and the total capacity of renewable energy projects in Turkey. The Turkish private sector export ratio average was 19,4% in 2019. This means that 19.4% of The related information on Turkey was achieved through the year end (December 2019) installed capacity report of Turkish Electricity Transmission the goods and services produced in the country are exported. As a development bank, TSKB corporation (TEİAŞ). In this context, the total installed renewable energy capacity of Hydroelectric Power Plant (HPP), Geothermal Power Plant (GPP), considers exports as an important indicator for sustainable development of the economy and Biomass Power Plant (BPP), Solar Energy Plant (SEP) and Wind Power Plant (WPP) renewable energy projects, partially or totally financed by the Bank, considers loans provided to companies with export ratios than 19% (calculated as ratio of was used for calculation and for partially financed projects, the Bank’s financing ratio for the project was not taken into consideration. foreign sales to total net sales) amongst sustainable-themed loans. This indicator only means the gender distribution of total Management level employees Contribution of renewable energy portfolio to CO₂ emission reduction (Chief Executive Officer, Executive Vice President, Department Head, Senior Manager, Junior CO₂ emission reduction is calculating by using the emission coefficient calculated by the Bank’s own methodology. Banka’nın kendi metodolojisi ile Human Gender ratio of management hesaplanan emisyon katsayısı yardımıyla hesaplamaktadır. The assumptions for calculating the reduction for each renewable energy efficiency ratio Manager) of the Bank (excluding subsidiaries and group companies) and the breakdown by gender during the reporting period. were based on using the Turkey sector average of the last three years of the different renewable energy sources. In this context, the total installed renewable energy capacity of Hydroelectric Power Plant (HPP), Geothermal Power Plant (GPP), Biomass Power Plant (BPP), Solar Energy Plant (SEP) This indicator only means the gender distribution of Board of Directors of the Bank (excluding and Wind Power Plant (WPP) renewable energy projects, partially or totally financed by the Bank, was used for calculation and for partially financed Human Gender ratio of Board of Directors subsidiaries and group companies) and the breakdown by gender during the reporting projects, the Bank’s financing ratio for the project was not taken into consideration. period. This indicator only means the total number of training hours provided to its Banking 5. Restatements Operations employees (Employees in Head-Office Buildings and the Branches excluding the The measuring and reporting of sustainability-related data inevitably involves a degree of estimation. Restatements are considered where there is a Human Traning hours administrative staff ) divided by the average number of FTE employees during the reporting change in the data of greater than 5 percent at the Bank level. period. The average number of employees is calculated based on the number of employees at the end of June and December. Participation rate for employee This indicator only means the ratio of the total number of employees who responded to the Human satisfaction survey survey divided by the total number of survey participants during the reporting period. 136 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 137 TSKB AT A GLANCE STRATEGY, PERFORMANCE AND EXPECTATIONS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ASSURANCE LETTERS AND CERTIFICATES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES GRI INDEX ISO 14001 CERTIFICATE ISO 14064 CERTIFICATE 138 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 139 TSKB AT A GLANCE STRATEGY, PERFORMANCE AND EXPECTATIONS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ASSURANCE LETTERS AND CERTIFICATES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES GRI INDEX FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES 142 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI ANONİM ŞİRKETİ Independent Auditor’s Audit Report, Unconsolidated Financial Statements and Notes for the Year Ended December 31, 2019 306 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI ANONİM ŞİRKETİ AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES Independent Auditor’s Audit Report, Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes for the Year Ended December 31, 2019 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S AUDIT REPORT, UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2019 (Convenience translation of unconsolidated financial statements and independent auditor’s audit report originally issued in Turkish, See Note I. of Section three) To the General Assembly of Türkiye Sınai Kalkınma Bankası A.Ş. Audit of Unconsolidated Financial Statements Qualified Opinion We have audited the accompanying unconsolidated financial statements of Türkiye Sınai Kalkınma Bankası A.Ş. (the Bank), which comprise the statement of financial position as at 31 December 2019 and the statement of profit or loss, statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income, statement of changes in equity and statement of cash flows for the year then ended, and notes to the financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies. In our opinion, except for the effects of the matter on the unconsolidated financial statements described in the Basis for Qualified Opinion paragraph, the accompanying unconsolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the unconsolidated financial position of Türkiye Sınai Kalkınma Bankası A.Ş. as at 31 December 2019 and unconsolidated financial performance and unconsolidated its cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with the Banking Regulation and Supervision Agency (“BRSA”) Accounting and Financial Reporting Legislation which includes “Regulation on Accounting Applications for Banks and Safeguarding of Documents” published in the Official Gazette no.26333 dated 1 November 2006, and other regulations on accounting records of Banks published by Banking Regulation and Supervision Agency and circulars and interpretations published by BRSA and Financial Reporting Standards (“TFRS”) for those matters not regulated by the aforementioned regulations. Basis for Qualified Opinion As explained in Note 7 in the Explanations and Disclosures related to the Liabilities, the accompanying unconsolidated financial statements as at 31 December 2019 include a free provision at an amount of TL 220.000 thousands,was provided in prior years respectively by the Bank management, for the possible effects of the negative circumstances which may arise in the economy or market conditions. Due to the fact that the above mentioned items do not meet the requirements of TAS 37, the “Prior Years’ Profit/Loss” as of 31 December 2019 is understated by TL 220.000 thousands. Our audit was conducted in accordance with “Regulation on independent audit of the Banks” published in the Official Gazette no.29314 dated 2 April 2015 by BRSA (BRSA Independent Audit Regulation) and Independent Auditing Standards (“ISA”) which are the part of Turkish Auditing Standards issued by the Public Oversight Accounting and Auditing Standards Authority (“POA”). Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements section of our report. We are independent of the Bank in accordance with of Code of Ethics for Independent Auditors (Code of Ethics) published by POA and have fulfilled our other responsibilities in accordance with the code of ethics. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our qualified opinion. Key Audit Matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the unconsolidated financial statements of the current period. Key audit matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the unconsolidated financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. In addition to the matter described in the Basis for Qualified Opinion section we have determined the matters described below to be the key audit matters to be communicated in our report. 142 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 143 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT Key Audit Matter How the matter is addressed in our audit Pension Fund Obligations Related important disclosures about recognition of Employees of the Bank are members of “TSKB A.Ş. Memur It has been addressed whether there have been any impairment on financial assets in accordance with TFRS 9 ve Müstahdemleri Yardım ve Emekli Vakfı”, (“the Fund”), significant changes in regulations governing pension which is established in accordance with the temporary liabilities, employee benefits plans during the period, that As presented in Section 3 disclosure VIII the Bank Our audit procedures included among others include: Article 20 of the Social Security Act No. 506 and related could lead to adjust the valuation of employee benefits. recognizes expected credit losses of financial assets Evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies regulations. The Fund is a separate legal entity and in accordance with TFRS 9 “Financial Instruments”. We as to the requirements of TFRS 9, Bank’s past experience, foundation recognized by an official decree, providing all Support from actuarial expert who is in the same audit considered the impairment of financial assets as a key audit local and global practices. qualified employees with pension and post-retirement network within our firm, has been taken to assess the matter since: benefits. As disclosed in Section Three Note XVI the appropriateness of the actuarial assumptions and Reviewing and testing of new or structured processes Amount of on and off balance sheet items that are which are used to calculate expected credit losses by “Explanations on Liabilities regarding employee benefits” calculations performed by the external actuary. We further subject to expected credit loss calculation is material to involving our Information technology and Process audit to the financial statements, Banks will transfer their pension focused on the accuracy and adequacy of the deficit and the financial statements. specialists. fund to the Social Security Institution and the Council of also disclosures on key assumptions related to pension There are complex and comprehensive requirements of Ministers has been authorized to determine the transfer fund. Evaluating the reasonableness of management’s TFRS 9. date. key judgements, estimates and data sources used The classification of the financial assets is based on in expected credit loss calculations considering the The Bank’s present value of the liabilities of TSKB A.Ş. the Bank’s business model and characteristics of the standard requirements, sectorial, local and global Memur ve Müstahdemleri Yardım ve Emekli Vakfı fund, contractual cash flows in accordance with TFRS 9 and practices. subject to the transfer to the Social Security Institution the Bank uses significant judgment on the assessment Reviewing the appropriateness of criteria in order to of the Pension Fund as of 31 December 2019 has been of the business model and identification of the complex identify the financial assets having solely payments of calculated by an independent actuary in accordance with contractual cash flow characteristics of financial principal and interest and checking the compliance to the actuarial assumptions in the Law and as per actuarial instruments. the Bank’s Business model. report dated 17 January 2020, there is no need for technical The Bank determines the fair value of financial assets Examining the financial instruments classification and or actual deficit to book provision as of 31 December 2019. measured at fair value by level 3 related business model measurement models (fair value hierarchy Level 3 category non-observable in fair value measurement due financial instruments) and comparing them with TFRS 9 The valuation of the Pension Fund liabilities requires to the existence of significant estimates and assumptions standard requirements judgment in determining appropriate assumptions such determination as defining the transferrable social benefits, discount rates, Assessing the appropriateness of definition of significant salary increases, demographic assumptions, inflation rate Policies implemented by the Bank management include increase in credit risk, default criteria, modification, compliance risk to the regulations and other practices. estimates and the impact of any changes in individual probability of default, loss given default, exposure at pension plans. The Bank Management uses Fund actuaries New or re-structured processes of TFRS 9 are advanced default and forward looking assumptions together to assist in assessing these assumptions. and complex. with the significant judgements and estimates used Judgements and estimates used in expected credit loss in these calculations to regulations and bank’s past Considering the subjectivity of key assumptions and calculation are new, complex and comprehensive. performance. Evaluating the alignment of those forward estimate used in the calculations of transferrable liabilities looking parameters to Bank’s internal processes where and the effects of the potential changes in the estimates Disclosure requirements of TFRS 9 are comprehensive applicable. used together with the uncertainty around the transfer and complex. Assessing the completeness and the accuracy of the data date and given the fact that technical interest rate is used for expected credit loss calculation. prescribed under the law, we considered this to be a key Testing the mathematical accuracy of expected credit audit matter. loss calculation on sample basis. Evaluating the judgments and estimates used for the individually assessed financial assets. Evaluating the accuracy and the necessity of post-model adjustments. Auditing of TFRS 9 disclosures. 144 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 145 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT As part of an audit in accordance with BRSA Independent Audit Regulation and ISAs, we exercise professional judgement and Derivative Financial Instruments maintain professional skepticism throughout the audit. We also: Derivative financial instruments including foreign exchange Our audit procedures involve obtaining written Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the unconsolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud contracts, currency and interest rate swaps, currency confirmations from the third parties and comparing the or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and and interest rate options, futures and other derivative details of the related derivative transactions. Our audit appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. (The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is financial instruments which are held for trading are initially procedures included among others involve reviewing higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, recognized on the statement of financial position at fair policies regarding fair value measurement accepted by the or the override of internal control.) value and subsequently are re-measured at their fair value. bank management fair value calculations of the selected Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate Details of related amounts are explained in Section Five derivative financial instruments which is carried out by in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Bank’s internal control. Note I.2.c Positive differences related to derivative financial valuation experts in our audit team and the assessment Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related assets and Section Five Note II.2 Negative differences of used estimations and the judgements and testing disclosures made by management. related to derivative financial liabilities disclosures. operating effectiveness of the key controls in the process of fair value determination. Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit Fair value of the derivative financial instruments is evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on determined by selecting most convenient market data and Our procedures included, amongst others, recalculating the Bank’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw applying valuation techniques to those particular derivative fair value calculation and disclosures relating to derivative attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the unconsolidated financial statements or, if such disclosures products. Derivative Financial Instruments are considered financial instruments considering the requirements of are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our by us as a key audit matter because of the subjectivity in Turkey Accounting Standards (“TAS”) and Turkey Financial auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Bank to cease to continue as a going concern. the estimates, assumptions and judgements used. Reporting Standards (“TFRS”). Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the unconsolidated financial statements, including the disclosures, and whether the financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that Responsibilities of Management and Directors for the Unconsolidated Financial Statements achieves fair presentation. Bank management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the unconsolidated financial statements in We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the accordance with the BRSA Accounting and Reporting Legislation and for such internal control as management determines is audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit. necessary to enable the preparation of the financial statement that is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. We also provide those charged with government with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought In preparing the unconsolidated financial statements, management is responsible for assessing the Bank’s ability to continue to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards. as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless management either intends to liquidate the Bank or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were of most to do so. significance in the audit of the unconsolidated financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the Those charged with governance are responsible for overseeing the Bank’s financial reporting process. matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Unconsolidated Financial Statements such communication. In an independent audit, the responsibilities of us as independent auditors are: Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with BRSA Independent Audit Regulation and ISAs will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements. 146 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 147 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT THE UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL REPORT OF TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements Address: Meclis-i Mebusan Cad. No: 81 Fındıklı/Istanbul Telephone: (212) 334 51 94 1) In accordance with Article 402 paragraph 4 of the Turkish Commercial Code (“TCC”) ; no significant matter has come to Fax: (212) 334 52 34 our attention that causes us to believe that the Bank’s bookkeeping activities and financial statements for the period 1 January 31 December 2019 are not in compliance with the TCC and the Bank’s articles of association in relation to Website: www.tskb.com.tr financial reporting. E-mail: ir@tskb.com.tr 2) In accordance with Article 402 paragraph 4 of the TCC; the Board of Directors submitted to us the necessary explanations The unconsolidated financial report for the year includes the following sections in accordance with “Communiqué on the and provided required documents within the context of audit. Financial Statements and Related Explanations and Notes that will be made Publicly Announced” as sanctioned by the Banking Regulation and Supervision Agency: The engagement partner who supervised and concluded this independent auditor’s report is Yaşar Bivas. GENERAL INFORMATION ABOUT THE BANK Güney Bağımsız Denetim ve Serbest Muhasebeci Mali Müşavirlik Anonim Şirketi UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF THE BANK A member firm of Ernst & Young Global Limited EXPLANATIONS ON THE CORRESPONDING ACCOUNTING POLICIES APPLIED IN THE RELATED PERIOD INFORMATION ON FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT OF THE BANK EXPLANATORY DISCLOSURES AND FOOTNOTES ON UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER EXPLANATIONS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT The accompanying unconsolidated financial statements and the explanatory footnotes and disclosures for the year end, unless otherwise indicated, are prepared in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”), in accordance with the Communiqué on Banks’ Yaşar Bivas, SMMM Accounting Practice and Maintaining Documents. Turkish Accounting Standards, Turkish Financial Reporting Standards, Partner related communiqués and the Banks’ records, and have been independently audited and presented as attached. 3 February 2020 3 February 2020 İstanbul, Türkiye H. Ersin ÖZİNCE Suat İNCE Ece BÖRÜ Tolga SERT Chairman of Board of Member of Board of Directors Executive Vice President in Head of Directors and General Manager Charge of Financial Reporting Financial Control Department Gamze YALÇIN Mehmet ŞENCAN Member of Audit Member of Audit Committee Committee Contact information of the personnel in charge for addressing questions about this financial report: Name-Surname/Title: Ayşe Nazlıca/Head of Financial Corporation and Investor Relations Telephone Number: (212) 334 51 94 148 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 149 INDEX Page Number XVIII. Additional explanations on borrowings 187 SECTION ONE XIX. Explanations on share certificates issued 187 General Information XX. Explanations on acceptances 187 I. The Bank’s incorporation date, beginning status, changes in the existing status 152 XXI. Explanations on government incentives 187 II. Explanations regarding the Bank’s shareholding structure, shareholders holding directly or indirectly, XXII. Explanations on segment reporting 188 collectively or individually, the managing and controlling power and changes in current year, if any and XXIII. Explanations on other matters 189 explanations on the controlling group of the Bank 152 III. Explanations regarding the chairman and the members of board of directors, audit committee, SECTION FOUR general manager and assistant general managers and their shares and responsibilities in the Bank 153 Information on Financial Structure and Risk Management IV. Information about the persons and institutions that have qualified shares in the Bank 154 I. Explanations related to shareholders’ equity 190 V. Summary on the Bank’s functions and areas of activity 154 II. Explanations related to credit risk 195 VI. Differences between the Communiqué on Preparation of Consolidated Financial Statements of Banks and III. Explanations related to currency risk 212 Turkish Accounting Standards and short explanation about the institution subject to line-by-line method or IV. Explanations related to interest rate risk 214 proportional consolidation and institutions which are deducted from equity or not included in these three V. Explanations related to stock position risk 219 methods 155 VI. Explanations related to the liquidity risk management and liquidity coverage ratio 221 VII. The existing or potential, actual or legal obstacle on the transfer of shareholder’s equity between the Bank and its subsidiaries or the reimbursement of liabilities 155 VII. Explanations related to leverage ratio 229 VIII. Explanations related to presentation of financial assets and liabilities at fair value 230 SECTION TWO IX. Explanations related to transactions made on behalf of others and fiduciary transactions 232 Unconsolidated Financial Statements X. Explanations related to risk management 232 I. Unconsolidated balance sheet 156 II. Unconsolidated statement of off-balance sheet items 158 SECTION FIVE III. Unconsolidated statement of profit or loss 160 Explanations and Disclosures on Unconsolidated Financial Statements IV. Unconsolidated statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income 161 I. Explanations and disclosures related to the assets 257 V. Unconsolidated statement of changes in shareholders’ equity 162 II. Explanations and disclosures related to the liabilities 283 VI. Unconsolidated statement of cash flows 166 III. Explanations and disclosures related to the off-balance sheet items 291 VII. Unconsolidated statement of profit distribution 167 IV. Explanations and disclosures related to the income statement 295 V. Explanations related to the statement of changes in shareholders’ equity 300 SECTION THREE VI. Explanations related to the statement of cash flows 300 Accounting Policies VII. Explanations on the risk group of the Bank 302 I. Basis of presentation 168 VIII. Information and disclosures related to the domestic, foreign offshore branches and II. Explanations on usage strategy of financial assets and foreign currency transactions 170 foreign representations of the Bank 303 III. Explanations on forward and option contracts and derivative instruments 171 SECTION SIX IV. Explanations on associates and subsidiaries 172 Other Explanations V. Explanations on interest income and expenses 172 I. Other explanations related to operations of the Bank 304 VI. Explanations on fees and commission income and expenses 173 II. Other explanations related to the events after the reporting date 305 VII. Explanations on financial assets 173 VIII. Explanations on impairment of financial assets 177 SECTION SEVEN IX. Explanations on offsetting, derecognition and restructuring of financial instruments 180 Auditors’ Report X. Explanations on sales and repurchase agreements and lending of securities 182 I. Explanations on the auditors’ report 305 XI. Explanations on assets held for sale and discontinued operations 182 II. Explanations and notes prepared by independent auditors 305 XII. Explanations on goodwill and other intangible assets 183 XIII. Explanations on tangible assets 183 XIV. Explanations on leasing transactions 184 XV. Explanations on provisions and contingent liabilities 184 XVII. Explanations on taxation 186 150 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 151 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION ONE SECTION ONE (Continued) GENERAL INFORMATION GENERAL INFORMATION (Continued) I. The Bank’s incorporation date, beginning status, changes in the existing status III. Explanations regarding the chairman and the members of board of directors, audit committee, general manager and assistant general managers and their shares and responsibilities in the Bank Türkiye Sınai Kalkınma Bankası A.Ş. (“The Bank”) was established in accordance with the decision of President of the Republic of Turkey numbered 3/11203 on 12 May 1950. This decision was declared by T.R. Office of Prime Ministry Procedures The Chairman and The Members of Board of Directors: Directorate Decision Management on 12 May 1950. Name Surname Title (1) H. Ersin Özince Chairman of the Board of Directors According to the classification set out in the Banking Law No: 5411, the status of the Bank is “Development and Investment Mehmet Şencan Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chairman of the Audit Committee Bank”. The Bank does not have the license of “Accepting Deposit”. Since the establishment date of the Bank, there is no change in its “Development and Investment Bank” status. Suat İnce Member of the Board of Directors and General Manager Yavuz Canevi Member of the Board of Directors II. Explanations regarding the Bank’s shareholding structure, shareholders holding directly or indirectly, collectively Mithat Rende Member of the Board of Directors or individually, the managing and controlling power and changes in current year, if any and explanations on the Zeynep Hansu Uçar Member of the Board of Directors controlling group of the Bank Ahmet Hakan Ünal Member of the Board of Directors Türkiye İş Bankası A.Ş. has the authority of managing and controlling power of the Bank directly or indirectly, alone or Abdi Serdar Üstünsalih (3) Member of the Board of Directors together with other shareholders. Shareholders of the Bank are as follows: Gamze Yalçın (2) Member of the Board of Directors and Member of Audit Committee Hüseyin Yalçın Member of the Board of Directors Current Period Share Shareholding Paid in Unpaid Can Yücel Member of the Board of Directors Name Surname/Commercial Title Capital Rate (%) Capital Capital General Manager and Vice Presidents Name Surname Title/Area of Responsibility (4) T. İş Bankası A.Ş. Group 1.425.780 50,92 1.425.780 Suat İnce General Manager T. Vakıflar Bankası T.A.O. 234.570 8,38 234.570 Meral Murathan Executive Vice President Financial Institutions and Investor Relations, Under Custody at Merkezi Kayıt Kuruluşu (Other Development Finance Institutions Institutions and Individuals) 1.139.650 40,70 1.139.650 Aslı Zerrin Hancı Executive Vice President Treasury, Treasury & Capital Markets Operations, Loan Total 2.800.000 100,00 2.800.000 Operations Prior Period Share Shareholding Paid in Unpaid Hasan Hepkaya Executive Vice President Corporate Banking Marketing, Corporate Banking Selling, Project Finance, Corporate Communication Name Surname/Commercial Title Capital Rate (%) Capital Capital Ece Börü Executive Vice President Loan Allocation, Loan Monitoring, Loan Analysis, Financial Control, Budget Planning T. İş Bankası A.Ş. Group 1.425.780 50,92 1.425.780 Hakan Aygen Executive Vice President Corporate Finance, Economic Research, Engineering T. Vakıflar Bankası T.A.O. 234.570 8,38 234.570 and Technical Consultancy, Financial Consultancy, Business Development and Under Custody at Merkezi Kayıt Kuruluşu (Other Consultancy Management Office Departments Institutions and Individuals) 1.139.650 40,70 1.139.650 H. Yetkin Kesler Executive Vice President Pension and Assistance Funds, Human Resources, Total 2.800.000 100,00 2.800.000 Enterprise Architecture and Process Management, Corporate Compliance B. Gökhan Çanakpınar Executive Vice President Support Services, System & Network Support, Application The Bank shares are traded in Istanbul Stock Exchange (“BIST”) since 26 December 1986. The Bank’s 50,92% of the shares Development belongs to İş Bank Group and 38,62% of these shares are in free floating and traded in BIST Star Market with “TSKB” ticker. A.Ferit Eraslan Executive Vice President Head of Board of Internal Auditors, Internal Control, Risk Management (1) The shares of above directors in the Bank are symbolic. (2) The Member of the Board of Directors Mrs. Ebru Özşuca resigned from her duty as a member of the Board of Directors. In the meeting of the Board of Directors held on 8 April 2019, it is decided that Mrs. Gamze Yalçın was elected to the vacant position of the Board of Directors in accordance with Article 363 of the Turkish Commercial Code. (3) The Member of the Board of Directors Mr. Mehmet Emin Özcan resigned from his duty as a member of the Board of Directors. In the meeting of the Board of Directors held on 14 June 2019, it is decided that Mr. Abdi Serdar Üstünsalih was elected to the vacant position of the Board of Directors in accordance with Article 363 of the Turkish Commercial Code. (4) Prepared according to the organization chart of the Bank dated 12 December 2019. According to the regulations on auditing in Articles 397-406 of the Turkish Commercial Code numbered 6102, Güney Bağımsız Denetim ve Serbest Muhasebeci ve Mali Müşavirlik A.Ş. has been elected as the independent auditor for the year 2019 in the General Assembly Meeting held on 28 March 2019. 152 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 153 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION ONE (Continued) SECTION ONE (Continued) GENERAL INFORMATION (Continued) GENERAL INFORMATION (Continued) IV. Information about the persons and institutions that have qualified shares in the Bank VI. Differences between the Communiqué on Preparation of Consolidated Financial Statements of Banks and Turkish Accounting Standards and short explanation about the institution subject to line-by-line method or proportional Explanation about the people and institutions that have qualified shares control the Bank’s capital directly or indirectly are consolidation and institutions which are deducted from equity or not included in these three methods described in General Information Section II. TSKB Gayrimenkul Yatırım Ortaklığı A.Ş. : V. Summary on the Bank’s functions and areas of activity TSKB Gayrimenkul Yatırım Ortaklığı A.Ş. (“TSKB GYO”) was established on 3 February 2006. Core business of the Company is The Bank is the first private development and investment bank which was established by the Council of Ministers resolution real estate trust to construct and develop a portfolio of properties and make investment to capital market instruments linked number of 3/11203 established in 1950 with the support of World Bank, Government of Republic of Turkey, Central Bank of to properties. The share of Türkiye Sınai Kalkınma Bankası A.Ş. is 88,67%. The company’s headquarters is located at Istanbul/ Republic of Turkey and commercial banks. As per the articles of association published in the Official Gazette on 2 June 1950, Turkey. the aim of the Bank is to support all private sector investments but mostly industrial sectors, to help domestic and foreign capital owners to finance the new firms and to help the improvement of Turkish capital markets. The Bank is succeeding İş Finansal Kiralama A.Ş. : its aims by financing, consulting, giving technical support and financial intermediary services. The Bank, which operates as a non-deposit accepting bank, played a major role on manufacturing and finance sectors in every phase of the economic İş Finansal Kiralama A.Ş. (“İş Finansal Kiralama”) was established on 8 February 1988. The Company has been performing its development of Turkey. The Bank started its journey in 1950 financing the private sector investments in Turkey and today it operations in accordance with the Financial Leasing, Factoring and Financing Companies Law No 6361. The purpose of the provides loans and project finance with the goal of sustainable development to corporations in different fields. As a leader Company is performing domestic and foreign financial leasing activities and all kind of rental (leasing) transactions within the in meeting the long term financing needs of the private sector, the Bank also continues to offer solutions with respect to the framework of legislation. The share of Türkiye Sınai Kalkınma Bankası A.Ş. is 29,46%. The company’s headquarters is located at newest needs and client demands. Istanbul/Turkey. VI. Differences between the Communiqué on Preparation of Consolidated Financial Statements of Banks and Turkish İş Faktoring A.Ş. : Accounting Standards and short explanation about the institution subject to line-by-line method or proportional İş Faktoring A.Ş. (“İş Faktoring”), was incorporated in Turkey on 4 July 1993 and it has been performing its operations in consolidation and institutions which are deducted from equity or not included in these three methods accordance with the Financial Leasing, Factoring and Financing Companies Law No: 6361. The Company’s main operation Due to differences between the Communiqué on Preparation of Consolidated Financial Statements of Banks and is domestic and export factoring transactions. The share of Türkiye Sınai Kalkınma Bankası A.Ş. is 21,75%. The company’s Turkish Account Standards (TAS), the non-financial subsidiaries and associates, TSKB Gayrimenkul Değerleme A.Ş., TSKB headquarters is located at Istanbul/Turkey. Sürdürülebilirlik Danışmanlığı A.Ş., Terme Metal Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş. and Ege Tarım Ürünleri Lisanslı Depoculuk A.Ş. are not İş Girişim Sermayesi Yatırım Ortaklığı A.Ş. : consolidated since they are not in scope of financial institutions according to related Communiqué. İş Girişim Sermayesi Yatırım Ortaklığı A.Ş (“İş Girişim”) started its venture capital operations by the decision of Capital Market The Bank and its financial institutions, Yatırım Finansman Menkul Değerler A.Ş., TSKB Gayrimenkul Yatırım Ortaklığı A.Ş. and Board dated 5 October 2000. The principal activity of the Company is to perform long-term investments to venture capital Yatırım Varlık Kiralama A.Ş. which founded on 20 September 2019 as a subsidiary of Yatırım Finansman Menkul Değerler A.Ş. companies mainly established or to be established in Turkey, have development potential and require resource. The share of are included in the accompanying consolidated financial statements line by line consolidation method; İş Finansal Kiralama Türkiye Sınai Kalkınma Bankası A.Ş. is 16,67%. The company’s headquarters is located at Istanbul/Turkey. A.Ş., İş Girişim Sermayesi Yatırım Ortaklığı A.Ş. and İş Faktoring A.Ş. are included in the accompanying consolidated financial statements by equity method. VII. The existing or potential, actual or legal obstacle on the transfer of shareholder’s equity between the Bank and its subsidiaries or the reimbursement of liabilities Financial institutions included in the consolidation are determined in accordance with “Communiqué on Preparation of Consolidated Financial Statements of Banks” published in the Official Gazette dated 8 November 2006 numbered 26340. The There is no existing or potential, actual or legal obstacle to the reimbursement of liabilities between the Bank and its Bank has no partnership share on banks and financial institutions, with shareholding of more than 10% and deducted from subsidiaries. The Bank charge or pay cost of the services according to the service agreements done between the Bank and its capital. subsidiaries. Dividend distribution from shareholders’ equity is made according to related legal regulations. Yatırım Finansman Menkul Değerler A.Ş. : Written policies of the Bank related to compliance to publicly disclosed obligations of the Bank and assessment of accuracy, frequency and compliance of mentioned disclosures Yatırım Finansman Menkul Değerler A.Ş. (“YF”) was established in 15 October 1976. The Company’s purpose is to perform capital market operations specified in the Company’s articles of association in accordance with the CMB and the related The Bank’s Disclosure Policy approved by the meeting of the Board of Directors has entered into force on 28 February legislation. The Company was merged with TSKB Menkul Değerler A.Ş. on 29 December 2006. The share of Türkiye Sınai 2014. Compliance to public disclosure obligations, frequency of public disclosures and tools and methods used for public Kalkınma Bankası A.Ş. is 95,78%. The company’s headquarters is located at Istanbul/Turkey. disclosures are explained in the disclosure policy of the Bank accessible from the Bank’s corporate website. 154 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 155 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION) UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) Audited Audited Audited Audited Current Period Prior Period Current Period Prior Period 31 December 2019 31 December 2018 (*) 31 December 2019 31 December 2018 (*) Section 5 Section 5 ASSETS Note I TL FC Total TL FC Total LIABILITIES AND EQUITY Note II TL FC Total TL FC Total I. FINANCIAL ASSETS (NET) 3.366.651 3.430.212 6.796.863 3.537.343 3.060.212 6.597.555 I. DEPOSITS (1) 1.1 Cash and Cash Equivalents 526.395 880.910 1.407.305 600.231 1.339.731 1.939.962 II. FUNDS BORROWED (3) 615.530 25.731.401 26.346.931 127.007 23.449.011 23.576.018 1.1.1 Cash and Balances with Central Bank (1) 509 803.528 804.037 6.349 736.875 743.224 III. MONEY MARKET BALANCES 369.384 662.172 1.031.556 41.543 137.458 179.001 1.1.2 Banks (3) 288 77.844 78.132 20.650 603.104 623.754 IV. MARKETABLE SECURITIES ISSUED (Net) (3) 6.023.450 6.023.450 6.949.189 6.949.189 1.1.3 Money Market Placements 525.628 525.628 573.252 573.252 4.1 Bills 1.1.4 Expected Credit Losses (-) 30 462 492 20 248 268 4.2 Assets Backed Securities 1.2 Financial Assets at Fair Value Through Profit or Loss (2) 263.097 263.097 290.660 290.660 4.3 Bonds 6.023.450 6.023.450 6.949.189 6.949.189 1.2.1 Government Debt Securities V. BORROWER FUNDS 2.494 56.456 58.950 2.408 30.121 32.529 1.2.2 Equity Instruments 5.1 Borrower Funds 2.494 56.456 58.950 2.408 30.121 32.529 1.2.3 Other Financial Assets 263.097 263.097 290.660 290.660 5.2 Other 1.3 Financial Assets at Fair Value Through Other VI. FINANCIAL LIABILITIES AT FAIR VALUE THROUGH PROFIT Comprehensive Income (4) 2.187.024 1.977.139 4.164.163 2.180.963 1.207.814 3.388.777 OR LOSS 1.3.1 Government Debt Securities 2.001.291 1.922.143 3.923.434 2.008.419 1.165.034 3.173.453 VII. DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL LIABILITIES (2) 276.933 207.410 484.343 442.269 350.050 792.319 1.3.2 Equity Instruments 40.653 53.806 94.459 20.958 41.778 62.736 7.1 Derivative Financial Liabilities at Fair Value Through Profit 1.3.3 Other Financial Assets 145.080 1.190 146.270 151.586 1.002 152.588 or Loss 276.933 207.410 484.343 442.269 350.050 792.319 1.4 Derivative Financial Assets (2) 653.232 309.066 962.298 756.149 222.007 978.156 7.2 Derivative Financial Liabilities at Fair Value Through Other 1.4.1 Derivative Financial Assets at Fair Value Through Profit or Comprehensive Income Loss 653.232 309.066 962.298 756.149 222.007 978.156 VIII. FACTORING LIABILITIES 1.4.2 Derivative Financial Assets at Fair Value Through Other IX. LEASE LIABILITIES (5) 34.278 34.278 Comprehensive Income X. PROVISIONS (7) 237.349 22.070 259.419 247.284 10.292 257.576 II. FINANCIAL ASSETS MEASURED AT AMORTIZED COST (NET) 6.542.075 26.586.973 33.129.048 5.589.482 23.989.476 29.578.958 10.1 Restructuring Provisions 2.1 Loans (5) 4.529.117 26.766.177 31.295.294 3.949.733 23.851.985 27.801.718 10.2 Reverse for Employee Benefits 14.724 14.724 12.089 12.089 2.2 Lease Receivables (10) 128.874 128.874 133.929 133.929 10.3 Insurance Technical Provisions (Net) 2.3 Factoring Receivables 10.4 Other Provisions 222.625 22.070 244.695 235.195 10.292 245.487 2.4 Other Financial Assets Measured at Amortized Cost (6) 2.285.894 299.266 2.585.160 1.735.521 419.420 2.154.941 XI. CURRENT TAX LIABILITY (8) 77.425 77.425 91.846 91.846 2.4.1 Government Debt Securities 2.285.894 299.266 2.585.160 1.735.521 419.420 2.154.941 XII. DEFERRED TAX LIABILITY (8) 2.4.2 Other Financial Assets XIII. LIABILITIES FOR PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT HELD FOR 2.5 Expected Credit Losses (-) 272.936 607.344 880.280 95.772 415.858 511.630 SALE AND RELATED TO DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS III. PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT HELD FOR SALE PURPOSE (Net) AND RELATED TO DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS (NET) (16) 64.403 64.403 1 1 13.1 Held for Sale Purpose 3.1 Held for Sale Purpose 64.403 64.403 1 1 13.2 Related to Discontinued Operations 3.2 Related to Discontinued Operations XIV. SUBORDINATED DEBT INSTRUMENTS (10) 1.830.045 1.830.045 1.549.774 1.549.774 IV. EQUITY INVESTMENTS 1.366.520 1.366.520 1.322.466 1.322.466 14.1 Loans 4.1 Investments in Associates (Net) (7) 914.046 914.046 1.017.509 1.017.509 14.2 Other Debt Instruments 1.830.045 1.830.045 1.549.774 1.549.774 4.1.1 Accounted Under Equity Method XV. OTHER LIABILITIES 127.560 59.245 186.805 121.059 29.796 150.855 4.1.2 Unconsolidated Associates 914.046 914.046 1.017.509 1.017.509 XVI. SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY 5.670.253 (3.357) 5.666.896 4.788.438 (69.434) 4.719.004 4.2 Subsidiaries (Net) (8) 452.474 452.474 304.957 304.957 16.1 Paid-in capital (11) 2.800.000 2.800.000 2.800.000 2.800.000 4.2.1 Unconsolidated Financial Subsidiaries 448.295 448.295 301.178 301.178 16.2 Capital Reserves 374 374 374 374 4.2.2 Unconsolidated Non-Financial Subsidiaries 4.179 4.179 3.779 3.779 16.2.1 Share Premium 4.3 Entities under Common Control (Joint Venture) (Net) 16.2.2 Share Cancellation Profits 4.3.1 Joint Ventures Valued Based on Equity Method 16.2.3 Other Capital Reserves 374 374 374 374 4.3.2 Unconsolidated Joint Ventures 16.3 Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income or Loss Not V. TANGIBLE ASSETS (Net) (12) 91.224 91.224 60.646 60.646 Reclassified Through Profit or Loss 901.026 (147) 900.879 843.954 5.756 849.710 VI. INTANGIBLE ASSETS (Net) (13) 3.029 3.029 3.125 3.125 16.4 Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income or Loss 6.1 Goodwill Reclassified Through Profit or Loss 51.932 (3.210) 48.722 (71.166) (75.190) (146.356) 6.2 Other 3.029 3.029 3.125 3.125 16.5 Profit Reserves 1.215.276 1.215.276 518.691 518.691 VII. INVESTMENT PROPERTY (Net) (14) 16.5.1 Legal Reserves 303.070 303.070 270.024 270.024 VIII. CURRENT TAX ASSET 16.5.2 Status Reserves 75.641 75.641 75.641 75.641 IX. DEFERRED TAX ASSET (15) 38.528 38.528 3.535 3.535 16.5.3 Extraordinary Reserves 833.645 833.645 170.106 170.106 X. OTHER ASSETS (Net) (17) 110.332 400.151 510.483 80.779 651.046 731.825 16.5.4 Other Profit Reserves 2.920 2.920 2.920 2.920 16.6 Profit Or Loss 701.645 701.645 696.585 696.585 TOTAL ASSETS 11.582.762 30.417.336 42.000.098 10.597.377 27.700.734 38.298.111 16.6.1 Prior Years’ Profit/Loss 35.659 35.659 16.6.2 Current Year Profit/Loss 701.645 701.645 660.926 660.926 (*) The necessary reclassifications have been made in the prior year’s financial statements in order to be comparable with the current period financial statements in the new financial statements format published by the Banking Regulation and Supervision Agency (“BRSA”) on 1 February 2019. TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY 7.411.206 34.588.892 42.000.098 5.861.854 32.436.257 38.298.111 (*) The necessary reclassifications have been made in the prior year’s financial statements in order to be comparable with the current period financial statements in the new financial statements format published by the Banking Regulation and Supervision Agency (“BRSA”) on 1 February 2019. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unconsolidated financial statement The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unconsolidated financial statement 156 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 157 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES UNCONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF OFF-BALANCE SHEET UNCONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF OFF-BALANCE SHEET AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) Audited Audited Audited Audited Current Period Prior Period Current Period Prior Period 31 December 2019 31 December 2018 31 December 2019 31 December 2018 Section 5 Section 5 OFF BALANCE SHEET Note III TL FC Total TL FC Total OFF BALANCE SHEET Note III TL FC Total TL FC Total A. OFF-BALANCE SHEET COMMITMENTS AND 3.2.2.1 Foreign Currency Swap-Buy 523.843 6.474.510 6.998.353 827.263 6.479.239 7.306.502 CONTINGENCIES (I+II+III) 7.646.516 56.481.115 64.127.631 9.601.673 54.896.234 64.497.907 3.2.2.2 Foreign Currency Swap-Sell 2.618.503 3.950.480 6.568.983 3.432.783 3.670.711 7.103.494 I. GUARANTEES AND COLLATERALS (1) 450.736 4.096.982 4.547.718 487.947 2.685.862 3.173.809 3.2.2.3 Interest Rate Swap-Buy 9.348.627 9.348.627 8.356.003 8.356.003 1.1 Letters of Guarantee 450.736 1.368.294 1.819.030 487.947 1.095.048 1.582.995 3.2.2.4 Interest Rate Swap-Sell 9.348.627 9.348.627 8.356.003 8.356.003 1.1.1 Guarantees Subject to State Tender Law 3.2.3 Foreign Currency, Interest Rate, and Securities 1.1.2 Guarantees Given for Foreign Trade Operations Options 888.022 887.778 1.775.800 2.563.980 2.704.528 5.268.508 1.1.3 Other Letters of Guarantee 450.736 1.368.294 1.819.030 487.947 1.095.048 1.582.995 3.2.3.1 Foreign Currency Options-Buy 444.061 443.889 887.950 1.281.990 1.352.264 2.634.254 1.2 Bank Acceptances 190.447 190.447 3.2.3.2 Foreign Currency Options-Sell 443.961 443.889 887.850 1.281.990 1.352.264 2.634.254 1.2.1 Import Letter of Acceptance 190.447 190.447 3.2.3.3 Interest Rate Options-Buy 1.2.2 Other Bank Acceptance 3.2.3.4 Interest Rate Options-Sell 1.3 Letters of Credit 2.538.241 2.538.241 1.590.814 1.590.814 3.2.3.5 Securities Options-Buy 1.3.1 Documantery Letters of Credit 2.538.241 2.538.241 1.590.814 1.590.814 3.2.3.6 Securities Options-Sell 1.3.2 Other Letters of Credit 3.2.4 Foreign Currency Futures 1.4 Prefinancing Given as Guarantee 3.2.4.1 Foreign Currency Futures-Buy 1.5 Endorsements 3.2.4.2 Foreign Currency Futures-Sell 1.5.1 Endorsements to the Central Bank of Turkey 3.2.5 Interest Rate Futures 1.5.2 Other Endorsements 3.2.5.1 Interest Rate Futures-Buy 1.6 Securities Issue Purchase Guarantees 3.2.5.2 Interest Rate Futures-Sell 1.7 Factoring Guarantees 3.2.6 Other 13.401 13.401 1.8 Other Guarantess B. CUSTODY AND PLEDGES SECURITIES 1.9 Other Collaterals (IV+V+VI) 73.293.060 466.201.948 539.495.008 69.544.760 361.651.050 431.195.810 II. COMMITMENTS (1) 450.117 3.181.266 3.631.383 469.766 2.621.343 3.091.109 IV. ITEMS HELD IN CUSTODY 649.217 632.325 1.281.542 114.936 222.460 337.396 2.1 Irrevocable Commitments 104.408 336.269 440.677 232.991 358.418 591.409 4.1 Customers’ Securities Held 2.1.1 Forward Asset Purchase and Sale Commitments 4.506 16.898 21.404 29.356 67.684 97.040 4.2 Investment Securities Held in Custody 55.046 632.325 687.371 63.577 221.641 285.218 2.1.2 Forward Deposit Purchase and Sales Commitments 4.3 Checks Received for Collection 248 248 130 130 2.1.3 Share Capital Commitments to Associates and 4.4 Commercial Notes Received for Collection 819 819 Subsidiaries 96.782 96.782 400 97.405 97.805 4.5 Other Assets Received for Collection 2.1.4 Loan Granting Commitments 4.6 Assets Received for Public Offering 2.1.5 Securities Underwriting Commitments 4.7 Other Items Under Custody 2.1.6 Commitments for Reserve Deposit Requirements 4.8 Custodians 593.923 593.923 51.229 51.229 2.1.7 Payment Commitment for Checks V. PLEDGES ITEMS 52.954.751 254.620.387 307.575.138 50.393.171 208.821.948 259.215.119 2.1.8 Tax and Fund Liabilities from Export Commitments 5.1 Marketable Securities 471.248 13.784.545 14.255.793 484.248 12.637.631 13.121.879 2.1.9 Commitments for Credit Card Expenditure Limits 5.2 Guarantee Notes 95.146 3.691.401 3.786.547 72.616 3.179.739 3.252.355 2.1.10 Commitments for Promotions Related with Credit Cards 5.3 Commodity and Banking Activities 5.4 Warranty 2.1.11 Receivables from Short Sale Commitments 5.5 Real Estate 3.805.563 63.849.083 67.654.646 3.232.486 56.825.467 60.057.953 2.1.12 Payables for Short Sale Commitments 5.6 Other Pledged Items 48.582.794 173.295.358 221.878.152 46.603.821 136.179.111 182.782.932 2.1.13 Other Irrevocable Commitments 99.902 222.589 322.491 203.235 193.329 396.564 5.7 Pledged Items-Depository 2.2 Revocable Commitments 345.709 2.844.997 3.190.706 236.775 2.262.925 2.499.700 VI. ACCEPTED BILL OF EXCHANGE AND 2.2.1 Revocable Loan Granting Commitments 345.709 2.844.997 3.190.706 236.775 2.262.925 2.499.700 COLLATERALS 19.689.092 210.949.236 230.638.328 19.036.653 152.606.642 171.643.295 2.2.2 Other Revocable Commitments TOTAL OFF BALANCE SHEET ITEMS (A+B) 80.939.576 522.683.063 603.622.639 79.146.433 416.547.284 495.693.717 III. DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (2) 6.745.663 49.202.867 55.948.530 8.643.960 49.589.029 58.232.989 3.1 Derivative Financial Instruments for Hedging Purposes 16.520.430 16.520.430 18.028.129 18.028.129 3.1.1 Fair Value Hedge 16.520.430 16.520.430 18.028.129 18.028.129 3.1.2 Cash Flow Hedge 3.1.3 Hedge of Net Investment in Foreign Operations 3.2 Held for Trading Transactions 6.745.663 32.682.437 39.428.100 8.643.960 31.560.900 40.204.860 3.2.1 Forward Foreign Currency Buy/Sell Transactions 2.715.295 2.672.415 5.387.710 1.819.934 1.981.015 3.800.949 3.2.1.1 Forward Foreign Currency Transactions-Buy 1.359.615 1.335.965 2.695.580 974.149 964.311 1.938.460 3.2.1.2 Forward Foreign Currency Transactions-Sell 1.355.680 1.336.450 2.692.130 845.785 1.016.704 1.862.489 3.2.2 Swap Transactions Related to Foreign Currency and Interest Rate 3.142.346 29.122.244 32.264.590 4.260.046 26.861.956 31.122.002 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unconsolidated financial statement The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unconsolidated financial statement 158 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 159 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES UNCONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF PROFIT OR LOSS UNCONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF PROFIT OR LOSS AND OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME AT 31 DECEMBER 2019 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) Audited Current Period Audited Prior Period Reviewed Reviewed 1 January 2019 1 January 2018 STATEMENT OF PROFIT OR LOSS 31 December 2019 31 December 2018(*) Current Period Prior Period Section 5 1 January 2019 1 January 2018 Note IV I. INTEREST INCOME (1) 3.254.968 3.034.857 PROFIT OR LOSS AND OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 31 December 2019 31 December 2018 1.1 Interest on Loans 2.212.758 2.104.578 1.2 Interest Received from Reserve Deposits 7.101 10.258 I. CURRENT PERIOD INCOME/LOSS 701.645 660.926 1.3 Interest Received from Banks 54.384 35.785 1.4 Interest Received from Money Market Placements 290.421 107.120 II. OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 246.247 597.207 1.5 Interest Received from Marketable Securities Portfolio 669.120 760.996 2.1 Not Reclassified Through Profit or Loss 51.169 712.005 1.5.1 Fair Value through Profit or Loss 3 20 1.5.2 Fair Value through other Comprehensive Income 442.319 358.776 2.1.1 Property and Equipment Revaluation Increase/Decrease 9.367 1.5.3 Measured at Amortized Cost 226.798 402.200 2.1.2 Intangible Assets Revaluation Increase/Decrease 1.6 Finance Lease Interest Income 6.406 6.060 1.7 Other Interest Income 14.778 10.060 2.1.3 Defined Benefit Pension Plan Remeasurement Gain/Loss (940) (670) II. INTEREST EXPENSES (-) (2) 1.323.131 1.281.465 2.1.4 Other Comprehensive Income Items Not Reclassified Through 2.1 Interest on Deposits Profit or Loss 51.902 704.280 2.2 Interest on Funds Borrowed 638.406 561.487 2.3 Interest on Money Market Borrowings 111.504 227.216 2.1.5 Tax Related Other Comprehensive Income Items Not 2.4 Interest on Securities Issued 556.212 491.351 Reclassified Through Profit or Loss 207 (972) 2.5 Leasing Interest Expense 9.402 2.6 Other Interest Expense 7.607 1.411 2.2 Reclassified Through Profit or Loss 195.078 (114.798) III. NET INTEREST INCOME (I II) 1.931.837 1.753.392 2.2.1 Foreign Currency Translation Differences 5.010 7.857 IV. NET FEES AND COMMISSIONS INCOME/EXPENSES 29.758 19.001 4.1 Fees and Commissions Received 36.241 25.749 2.2.2 Valuation and/or Reclassification Income/Expense of the 4.1.1 Non-cash Loans 25.157 21.798 Financial Assets at Fair Value Through Other Comprehensive 4.1.2 Other 11.084 3.951 Income 243.693 (157.048) 4.2 Fees and Commissions Paid (-) 6.483 6.748 4.2.1 Non-cash Loans 968 967 2.2.3 Cash Flow Hedge Income/Loss 4.2.2 Other 5.515 5.781 2.2.4 Income (Loss) Related with Hedges of Net Investments in V. DIVIDEND INCOME (3) 7.123 4.011 VI. NET TRADING INCOME (4) (445.660) (267.231) Foreign Operations 6.1 Securities Trading Gains/(Losses) 1.320 2.013 2.2.5 Other Comprehensive Income Items Reclassified Through Profit 6.2 Derivative Financial Instruments Gains/Losses (553.297) (477.108) or Losses 6.3 Foreign Exchange Gains/Losses (Net) 106.317 207.864 VII. OTHER OPERATING INCOME (5) 31.612 94.158 2.2.6 Tax Related Other Comprehensive Income Items Reclassified VIII. GROSS OPERATING INCOME (III+IV+V+VI+VII) 1.554.670 1.603.331 Through Profit or Loss (53.625) 34.393 IX. EXPECTED CREDIT LOSSES (-) (6) 458.882 501.193 X. OTHER PROVISION EXPENSES (-) (6) 30.000 XI. PERSONNEL EXPENSES (-) 126.726 106.436 III. TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (I+II) 947.892 1.258.133 XII. OTHER OPERATING EXPENSES (-) (7) 74.835 56.439 XIII. NET OPERATING INCOME/(LOSS) (VIII-IX-X-XI-XII) 894.227 909.263 XIV. AMOUNT IN EXCESS RECORDED AS GAIN AFTER MERGER XV. PROFIT/(LOSS) ON EQUITY METHOD XVI. GAIN/(LOSS) ON NET MONETARY POSITION XVII. PROFIT/(LOSS) FROM CONTINUED OPERATIONS BEFORE TAXES (XIII+...+XVI) 894.227 909.263 XVIII. TAX PROVISION FOR CONTINUED OPERATIONS (±) (8) 192.582 248.337 18.1 Provision for Current Income Taxes 280.993 146.335 18.2 Deferred Tax Income Effect (+) 193.387 249.477 18.3 Deferred Tax Expense Effect (-) 281.798 147.475 XIX. NET PROFIT/(LOSS) FROM CONTINUED OPERATIONS (XVI±XVII) (9) 701.645 660.926 XX. INCOME ON DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS 20.1 Income on Assets Held for Sale 20.2 Income on Sale of Associates, Subsidiaries and Jointly Controlled Entities (Joint Venture) 20.3 Income on Other Discontinued Operations XXI. LOSS FROM DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS (-) 21.1 Loss from Assets Held for Sale 21.2 Loss on Sale of Associates, Subsidiaries and Jointly Controlled Entities (Joint Venture) 21.3 Loss from Other Discontinued Operations XXII. PROFIT/(LOSS) ON DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS BEFORE TAXES (XX-XXI) XXIII. TAX PROVISION FOR DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS (±) 23.1 Provision for Current Income Taxes 23.2 Deferred Tax Expense Effect (+) 23.3 Deferred Tax Income Effect (-) XXIV. NET PROFIT/LOSS FROM DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS (XXII±XXIII) XXV. NET PROFIT/LOSS (XIX+XXIV) (10) 701.645 660.926 Earning/(loss) per share 0,251 0,236 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unconsolidated financial statement The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unconsolidated financial statement 160 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 161 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES UNCONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income or Accumulated Other Comprehensive Expenses Not Reclassified Income or Expenses Reclassified Through Profit or Loss Through Profit or Loss Total Equity Prior Current Except Share Other Period Period from Total CHANGES IN Paid-in Share Cancellation Capital Profit Profit or Profit or Minority Minority Shareholders’ SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY Note Capital Premiums Profits Reserves 1 2 3 4 5 6 Reserves (Loss) (Loss) Interest Interest Equity Prior Period 31 December 2018 I. Prior Period End Balance 2.400.000 374 32.571 173 104.961 7.847 (39.405) 432.528 595.668 3.534.717 3.534.717 II. Corrections and Accounting Policy Changes Made According to TAS 8 35.659 35.659 35.659 2.1 Effects of Errors 2.2 Effects of the Changes in Accounting Policies 35.659 35.659 35.659 III. Adjusted Beginning Balance (I+II) 2.400.000 374 32.571 173 104.961 7.847 (39.405) 432.528 631.327 3.570.376 3.570.376 IV. Total Comprehensive Income 8.337 (522) 704.190 7.857 (122.655) 660.926 1.258.133 1.258.133 V. Capital Increase by Cash VI. Capital Increase by Internal Sources 400.000 (400.000) VII. Effect of Inflation on Paid-in Capital VIII. Convertible Bonds to Share IX. Subordinated Debt Instruments X. Increase/Decrease by Other Changes XI. Profit Distribution 86.163 (195.668) (109.505) (109.505) 11.1 Dividends Distributed (109.865) (109.865) (109.865) 11.2 Transfers to Reserves 86.163 (85.803) 360 360 11.3 Other Period-End Balance (III+IV+…...+X+XI) 2.800.000 374 40.908 (349) 809.151 15.704 (162.060) 518.691 35.659 660.926 4.719.004 4.719.004 1. Accumulated Revaluation Increase/Decrease of Fixed Assets 2. Accumulated Remeasurement Gain/Loss of Defined Benefit Pension Plan 3. Other (Shares of Investments Valued by Equity Method in Other Comprehensive Income Not Classified Through Profit or Loss and Other Accumulated Amounts of Other Comprehensive Income Items Not Reclassified Through Other Profit or Loss) 4. Foreign Currency Translition Differences 5. Accumulated Revaluation and/or Remeasurement Gain/Loss of the Financial Asset at Fair Value Through Other Comprehensive Income 6. Other (Cash Flow Hedge Gain/Loss, Shares of Investments Valued by Equity Method in Other Comprehensive Income Classified Through Profit or Loss and Other Accumulated Amounts of Other Comprehensive Income Items Reclassified Through Other Profit or Loss) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unconsolidated financial statement 162 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 163 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES UNCONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income or Accumulated Other Comprehensive Expenses Not Reclassified Income or Expenses Reclassified Through Profit or Loss Through Profit or Loss Prior Current Total Equity Share Other Period Period Except from Total CHANGES IN Paid-in Share Cancellation Capital Profit Profit or Profit or Minority Minority Shareholders’ SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY Note Capital Premiums Profits Reserves 1 2 3 4 5 6 Reserves (Loss) (Loss) Interest Interest Equity Current Period 31 Except December 2019 from I. Prior Period End Balance 2.800.000 374 40.908 (349) 809.151 15.704 (162.060) 518.691 696.585 4.719.004 II. Corrections and Accounting Policy Changes Made According to TAS 8 2.1 Effects of Errors 2.2 Effects of the Changes in Accounting Policies III. Adjusted Beginning Balance (I+II) 2.800.000 374 40.908 (349) 809.151 15.704 (162.060) 518.691 696.585 4.719.004 4.719.004 IV. Total Comprehensive Income (733) 51.902 5.010 190.068 701.645 947.892 947.892 V. Capital Increase by Cash VI. Capital Increase by Internal Sources VII. Effect of Inflation on Paidin Capital VIII. Convertible Bonds to Share IX. Subordinated Debt Instruments X. Increase/Decrease by Other Changes XI. Profit Distribution 696.585 (696.585) 11.1 Dividends Distributed 11.2 Transfers to Reserves 696.585 (696.585) 11.3 Other Period-End Balance (III+IV+…...+X+XI) 2.800.000 374 40.908 (1.082) 861.053 20.714 28.008 1.215.276 701.645 5.666.896 5.666.896 1. Accumulated Revaluation Increase/Decrease of Fixed Assets 2. Accumulated Remeasurement Gain/Loss of Defined Benefit Pension Plan 3. Other (Shares of Investments Valued by Equity Method in Other Comprehensive Income Not Classified Through Profit or Loss and Other Accumulated Amounts of Other Comprehensive Income Items Not Reclassified Through Other Profit or Loss) 4. Foreign Currency Translition Differences 5. Accumulated Revaluation and/or Remeasurement Gain/Loss of the Financial Asset at Fair Value Through Other Comprehensive Income 6. Other (Cash Flow Hedge Gain/Loss, Shares of Investments Valued by Equity Method in Other Comprehensive Income Classified Through Profit or Loss and Other Accumulated Amounts of Other Comprehensive Income Items Reclassified Through Other Profit or Loss) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unconsolidated financial statement 164 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 165 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES UNCONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS UNCONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF PROFIT DISTRIBUTION FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) Audited Audited Audited Audited Current Period Prior Period Current Period Prior Period 31 December 2019 31 December 2018 (1) Note 31 December 2019 31 December 2018 I. DISTRIBUTION OF CURRENT YEAR INCOME A. CASH FLOWS FROM BANKING OPERATIONS 1.1 Operating Profit Before Changes in Operating Assets and Liabilities 1.120.354 1.763.319 1.1 CURRENT YEAR INCOME 894.227 909.263 1.1.1 Interest Received 2.912.455 2.463.185 1.2 TAXES AND DUTIES PAYABLE 192.582 248.337 1.1.2 Interest Paid (1.161.310) (1.243.147) 1.2.1 Corporate Tax (Income tax) 280.993 146.335 1.2.2 Income withholding tax 1.1.3 Dividends Received 7.123 4.011 1.2.3 Other taxes and duties (3) (88.411) 102.002 1.1.4 Fees and Commissions Received 36.241 25.749 1.1.5 Other Income 4.708 6.135 A. NET INCOME FOR THE YEAR (1.1-1.2) 701.645 660.926 1.1.6 Collections from Previously Written off Loans 84.517 9.014 1.1.7 Payments to Personnel and Service Suppliers (124.566) (107.255) 1.3 PRIOR YEARS LOSSES (-) 1.1.8 Taxes Paid (294.562) (107.872) 1.4 FIRST LEGAL RESERVES (-) 33.046 1.5 OTHER STATUTORY RESERVES (-) 1.1.9 Others (344.252) 713.499 B. NET PROFIT AVAILABLE FOR DISTRIBUTION [(A-(1.3+1.4+1.5)] 701.645 627.880 1.2 Changes in Operating Assets and Liabilities 810.466 (1.357.969) 1.2.1 Net (Increase) (Decrease) in Financial Assets at Fair Value through Profit or Loss 1.6 FIRST DIVIDEND TO SHAREHOLDERS (-) 1.2.2 Net (Increase) (Decrease) in Due from Banks 1.6.1 To owners of ordinary shares 1.2.3 Net (Increase) (Decrease) in Loans 398.939 1.227.382 1.6.2 To owners of preferred shares 1.2.4 Net (Increase) (Decrease) in Other Assets 138.668 (387.971) 1.6.3 To owners of preferred shares (pre-emptive rights) 1.6.4 To profit sharing bonds 1.2.5 Net (Increase) (Decrease) in Bank Deposits 1.6.5 To holders of profit and loss sharing certificates 1.2.6 Net (Increase) (Decrease) in Other Deposits 1.7 DIVIDENDS TO PERSONNEL (-) 1.2.7 Net (Increase) (Decrease) in Financial Liabilities at Fair Value through Profit or Loss 1.8 DIVIDENDS TO BOARD OF DIRECTORS (-) 1.2.8 Net (Increase) (Decrease) in Funds Borrowed (358.481) (1.545.419) 1.9 SECOND DIVIDEND TO SHAREHOLDERS (-) 1.2.9 Net (Increase) (Decrease) in Matured Payable 1.9.1 To owners of ordinary shares 1.2.10 Net (Increase) (Decrease) in Other Liabilities 631.340 (651.961) 1.9.2 To owners of preferred shares 1.9.3 To owners of preferred shares (pre-emptive rights) 1.9.4 To profit sharing bonds I. Net Cash Provided by/(used in) Banking Operations 1.930.820 405.350 1.9.5 To holders of profit and loss sharing certificates 1.10 SECOND LEGAL RESERVES (-) 1.11 STATUTORY RESERVES (-) B. CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES 1.12 GENERAL RESERVES 627.880 1.13 OTHER RESERVES II. Net Cash Provided by/(used in) Investing Activities (516.643) (477.255) 1.14 SPECIAL FUNDS II. DISTRIBUTION OF RESERVES 2.1 Cash Paid for Purchase of Entities under Common Control, Associates and Subsidiaries (400) (152.380) 2.2 Cash Obtained from Sale of Entities under Common Control, Associates and Subsidiaries 2.1 APPROPRIATED RESERVES 2.3 Purchases of Property and Equipment (6.366) (4.181) 2.2 SECOND LEGAL RESERVES (-) 2.4 Disposals of Property and Equipment 3.277 94 2.3 DIVIDENDS TO SHAREHOLDERS (-) 2.5 Purchase of Financial Assets at Fair Value through Other Comprehensive Income (1.048.151) (680.955) 2.3.1 To owners of ordinary shares 2.6 Sale of Financial Assets at Fair Value through Other Comprehensive Income 775.098 590.195 2.3.2 To owners of preferred shares 2.3.3 To owners of preferred shares (pre-emptive rights) 2.7 Purchase of Financial Assets Measured at Amortized Cost (433.812) (227.528) 2.3.4 To profit sharing bonds 2.8 Sale of Financial Assets Measured at Amortized Cost 195.251 2.3.5 To holders of profit and loss sharing certificates 2.9 Others (1.540) (2.500) 2.4 DIVIDENDS TO PERSONNEL (-) 2.5 DIVIDENDS TO BOARD OF DIRECTORS (-) C. CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES III. EARNINGS PER SHARE (2) III. Net Cash Provided by/(used in) Financing Activities (2.019.964) 1.208.725 3.1 TO OWNERS OF ORDINARY SHARES 0,25 0,24 3.2 TO OWNERS OF ORDINARY SHARES (%) 25,06 23,60 3.1 Cash Obtained From Funds Borrowed and Securities Issued 1.318.590 3.3 TO OWNERS OF PRIVILEGED SHARES 3.2 Cash Used for Repayment of Funds Borrowed and Securities Issued (2.004.016) 3.4 TO OWNERS OF PRIVILEGED SHARES (%) 3.3 Capital Increase 3.4 Dividends Paid (109.865) IV. DIVIDEND PER SHARE 3.5 Payments for Leases (15.948) 4.1 TO OWNERS OF ORDINARY SHARES 3.6 Other 4.2 TO OWNERS OF ORDINARY SHARES (%) 4.3 TO OWNERS OF PRIVILAGED SHARES IV. Effect of Change in Foreign Exchange Rate on Cash and Cash Equivalents 3.262 45.114 4.4 TO OWNERS OF PRIVILEGED SHARES (%) V. Net Increase/(Decrease) in Cash and Cash Equivalents (602.525) 1.181.934 (1) Since the Board of Directors has not prepared any proposal for profit distribution relating to the year 2019 yet, only profit available for distribution for the year 2019 is presented. VI. Cash and Cash Equivalents at Beginning of the Period 1.202.110 20.176 (2) A nominal value of 1 Kurus figures a share in unconsolidated income statement and unconsolidated statement of profit distribution and an earnings per share is calculated for a nominal value of 1 Kurus. VII. Cash and Cash Equivalents at End of the Period 599.585 1.202.110 (3) The current amount is deferred tax expense and the prior period amount is deferred tax income. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unconsolidated financial statement The accompanying notes are an integral part of these unconsolidated financial statement 166 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 167 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION THREE SECTION THREE (Continued) ACCOUNTING POLICIES ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) I. Basis of presentation I. Basis of presentation (continued) I.a Preparation of the financial statements and the accompanying footnotes in accordance with Turkish Accounting I.b.2 TFRS 16 Leases Standards and Regulation on Principles Related to Banks’ Accounting Applications and Maintaining the Documents TFRS 16 Leasing standard abolishes the dual accounting model currently applied for lessees through recognizing finance The Bank prepared its financial statements in accordance with the BRSA Accounting and Reporting Regulation” which leases in the balance sheet whereas not recognizing operational lease. includes the regulation on “The Procedures and Principles Regarding Banks’ Accounting Practices and Maintaining Documents” published in the Official Gazette dated 1 November 2006 with No. 26333, and other regulations on accounting Instead, it is set forth a single model similar to the accounting of financial leases (on balance sheet). For lessors, the records of banks published by the Banking Regulation and Supervision Board and circulars and pronouncements published accounting stays almost the same. The Bank has started to apply “TFRS 16 Leases” Standard starting from 1 January 2019. by the BRSA and Turkish Accounting Standards published by the Public Oversight Accounting and Auditing Standards The Bank has applied TFRS 16 with a simplified retrospective approach. The new accounting policies of the Bank regarding to Authority for the matters not regulated by the aforementioned legislations and the amendments dated 1 February 2019 to application TFRS 16 are stated below. the Communiqué on the Financial Statements and Related Disclosures and Footnotes to announced to public dated 28 June Right-of-use assets 2012 and with No. 28337 “Communique’ on Publicly Announced Financial Statements Explanations and notes to the Financial Statements”. The Bank recognises right-of-use assets at the commencement date of the lease (i.e., the date the underlying asset is available for use). Right-of-use assets are measured at cost, less any accumulated depreciation and impairment losses, and adjusted for The unconsolidated financial statements have been prepared in TL, under the historical cost convention except for the any remeasurement of lease liabilities. financial asset, liabilities and buildings revaluation model which are carried at fair value. The cost of right-of-use assets includes: Accounting policies and valuation principles used in the preparation of the financial statements are determined and applied, in accordance with the regulations, communiqués, interpretations and legislations related to accounting and financial (a) the amount of lease liabilities recognized, reporting principles published by the Banking Regulation and Supervision Agency (“BRSA”). (b) lease payments made at or before the commencement date less any lease incentives received and (c) initial direct costs incurred. The accounting policies and valuation principles used in the 2019 period are presented in the accompanying notes and the accounting policies and valuation principles are explained in Notes II to XXIII below. Unless the Bank is reasonably certain to obtain ownership of the leased asset at the end of the lease term, the recognised right-of-use assets are depreciated on a straight-line basis over the shorter of its estimated useful life and the lease term. The format and content of the accompanying unconsolidated financial statements and footnotes have been prepared in Right-of-use assets are subject to impairment. accordance with the “Communique’ on Publicly Announced Financial Statements Explanations and notes to the Financial Statements” and “Communique on Disclosures About Risk Management to be Announced to Public by Banks.” Lease Liabilities The accompanying unconsolidated financial statements and the explanatory footnotes, unless otherwise indicated, are At the commencement date of the lease, the Bank recognises lease liabilities measured at the present value of lease prepared in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”). payments to be made over the lease term. Additional paragraph for convenience translation to English The lease payments include The effects of differences between accounting principles and standards set out by regulations in conformity with BRSA a) fixed payments (including in-substance fixed payments) less any lease incentives receivable, Accounting and Reporting Legislation and Turkish Accounting Standard 34” Interim Financial reporting” except for the b) variable lease payments that depend on an index or a rate, matters regulated by BRSA Legislation accounting principles generally accepted in countries in which the accompanying c) amounts expected to be paid under residual value guarantees. unconsolidated financial statements are to be distributed and International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) have not d) the exercise price of a purchase option reasonably certain to be exercised by the Company/the Group and payments of been quantified in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. Accordingly, the accompanying unconsolidated penalties for terminating a lease, financial statements are not intended to present the financial position, results of operations and changes in financial position and cash flows in accordance with the accounting principles generally accepted in such countries and IFRS. e) if the lease term reflects the Company/the Group exercising the option to terminate. I.b Changes in accounting policies and disclosures The variable lease payments that do not depend on an index or a rate are recognised as expense in the period on which the event or condition that triggers the payment occurs. I.b.1 Major new and amended standards and interpretations In calculating the present value of lease payments, the Company/the Group uses the incremental borrowing rate at the lease The Bank has started to apply “TFRS 16 Leases” Standard published by Public Oversight Accounting and Auditing Standards commencement date if the interest rate implicit in the lease is not readily determinable. Authority (“POA”) in the Official Gazette numbered 29826 dated 16 April 2018 starting from 1 January 2019. The mentioned After the effective date of the lease, the Bank measures the lease obligation as follows: standard has a transition effect amounting to TL 40.824 in “tangible assets” and “lease liability” in the Bank’s financial a) The book value is increased to reflect the accretion of interest of lease liabilities statements. As of 31 December 2019 The Bank recognized right of use asset classified under tangible assets amounting to b) The book value is reduced to reflect the lease payments made TL 30.571, lease liability amounting to TL 34.278, amortization expenses amounting to TL 10.253 and lease interest expenses amounting to TL 9.402. Other changes on standards of TAS and TFRS have no significant impact on financial position or performance of the Parent Bank. 168 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 169 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION THREE (Continued) SECTION THREE (Continued) ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) I. Basis of presentation (continued) II. Explanations on usage strategy of financial assets and foreign currency transactions (continued) I.b Changes in accounting policies and disclosures (continued) The hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires, is exercised, sold or no longer effective. When I.b.2 TFRS 16 Leases (continued) discontinuing fair value hedge accounting, the cumulative fair value changes in carrying value of the hedged item arising from the hedged risk are amortized and recognized in income statement over the life of the hedged item from that date of In addition, the carrying amount of lease liabilities is remeasured if there is a modification, a change in the lease term, a the hedge accounting is discontinued.The Bank liquidity is regularly monitored. Moreover, the need of liquidity in foreign change in the in-substance fixed lease payments or a change in the assessment to purchase the underlying asset. currencies is safeguarded by currency swaps. Short-term leases and leases of low-value assets Commercial placements are managed with high return and low risk assets considering the international and domestic economic expectations, market conditions, creditors’ expectations and their tendencies, interest-liquidity and other similar The Bank applies the short-term lease recognition exemption to its short-term leases of machinery and equipment (i.e., those factors. Prudence principle is adopted in the placement decisions. The long term placements are made under project finance. leases that have a lease term of 12 months or less from the commencement date and do not contain a purchase option). It A credit policy is implemented such a way that harmonizing the profitability of the projects, the collateral and the value add also applies the lease of low-value assets recognition exemption to leases of office equipment that are considered of low introduced by the Bank. value. Lease payments on short-term leases and leases of low-value assets are recognised as expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term. The movements of foreign exchange rates in the market, interest rates and prices are monitored instantaneously. While taking positions, the Bank’s unique operating and control limits are watched effectively besides statutory limits. Limit overs are not I.c The valuation principles used in the preparation of the financial statements allowed. The accounting rules and the valuation principles used in the preparation of the financial statements were implemented as The Bank’s strategy of hedging interest rate and foreign currency risks arising from fixed and variable interest rate funds and stated in the Turkish Accounting Standards and related regulations, explanations and circulars on accounting and financial foreign currency fair value through other comprehensive income securities: reporting principles announced by the BRSA. These accounting policies and valuation principles are explained in the below notes through II to XXIII. A great majority of foreign currency fair value through other comprehensive income securities are financed with foreign currency resources. Accordingly, the anticipated possible depreciation of local currency against other currencies is eliminated. I.d The accounting policies for the correct understanding of the financial statements A foreign currency basket is formulated in terms of the indicated foreign currency to eliminate the risk exposure of changes The following accounting policies that applied according to BRSA regulations and TAS for the correct understanding of the in cross currency parity. Interest rate risk is mitigated by constituting a balanced asset composition in compliance with the financial statements and valuation principles used in preparation of the financial statements are presented in more detail structure of fixed and floating rate of funding resources.The hedging strategies for other foreign exchange risk exposures: below. A stable foreign exchange position strategy is implemented and to be secured from cross currency risk, the current foreign exchange position is monitored by considering a currency basket in specific foreign currencies. II. Explanations on usage strategy of financial assets and foreign currency transactions The foreign exchange gains and losses on foreign currency transactions are accounted for in the period of the transaction. The main sources of the funds of the Bank have variable interest rates. The financial balances are monitored frequently and Foreign exchange assets and liabilities are translated to Turkish Lira using foreign exchange bid rate as of the reporting date, fixed and floating interest rate placements are undertaken according to the return on the alternative financial instruments. and the resulting gains and losses are recorded in foreign exchange gains or losses. The macro goals related to balance sheet amounts are set during budgeting process and positions are taken accordingly. III. Explanations on forward and option contracts and derivative instruments Due to the fact that the great majority of the loans extended by the Bank have a flexibility of reflecting changes in the market interest rates to the customers, the interest rate risk is kept at minimum level. Moreover, the highly profitable Eurobond and The Bank is exposed to financial risk which depends on changes in foreign exchange rates and interest rates due to the foreign currency government indebtness securities portfolio have the attribute of eliminating the risks of interest rate activities and as part of banking activities uses derivative instruments to manage financial risk that especially associated volatility. with fluctuations in foreign exchange and interest rate. Mainly derivative instruments used by the Bank are foreign currency forwards, swaps and option agreements. The fixed rate Subordinated bond, Eurobond and Greenbond issued by the Bank and a portion of fixed rate funds borrowed are subject to fair value hedge accounting. The Bank enters into interest rate swap agreements in order to hedge the change The derivative financial instruments are accounted for at their fair values as of the date of the agreements entered into in fair values of its fixed rate financial liabilities. The changes in the fair value of the hedged fixed rate financial liabilities and and subsequently valued at fair value. Derivative financial instruments of the Bank are classified under “TFRS 9 Financial hedging interest rate swaps are recognized under the statement of profit/loss. Instruments” (“TFRS 9”), “Derivative Financial Assets Designated at Fair Value Through Profit or Loss” or “Derivative Financial Assets Designated at Fair Value Through Other Comprehensive Income”. In the beginning and later period of the hedging transaction, the aforementioned hedging transactions are expected to offset changes occurred in the relevant period of the hedging transaction and hedged risk (attributable to hedging risk) and effectiveness tests are performed in this regard. The Bank performs effectiveness test at the beginning of the hedge accounting and at each reporting period. The effectiveness tests are carried out using the “Dollar off-set model” and the hedge accounting is applied as long as the test results are between the range of 80%-125% of effectiveness. TFRS 9 provides the option of deferring the adoption of TFRS 9 hedge accounting and the option to continue to apply the provisions of TAS 39 hedge accounting in the selection of accounting policies. In this context, the Bank continues to apply the provisions of TAS 39 hedge accounting. 170 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 171 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION THREE (Continued) SECTION THREE (Continued) ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) III. Explanations on forward and option contracts and derivative instruments (continued) V. Explanations on interest income and expenses (continued) Payables and receivables arising from the derivative instruments are recorded in the off-balance sheet accounts at their Interest income and expenses are recognized in the income statement for all interest bearing instruments on an accrual contractual values. Derivative transactions are valued at their fair values subsequent to their acquisition. In accordance with basis using the effective interest method (the rate that equalizes the future cash flows of financial assets and liabilities to the the classification of derivative financial instruments, if the fair value is positive, the amount is classified as “Derivative Financial current net book value). Assets Designated at Fair Value Through Profit or Loss” or “Derivative Financial Assets Designated at Fair Value Through Other Comprehensive Income”, if the fair value is negative, the amount is classified as “Derivative Financial Liabilities Designated at VI. Explanations on fees and commission income and expenses Fair Value Through Profit or Loss” or “Derivative Financial Liabilities Designated at Fair Value Through Other Comprehensive Except for fees and commissions that are integral part of the effective interest rates of financial instruments measured at Income”. The fair value differences of derivative financial instruments are recognized in the income statement under trading amortized costs, the fees and commissions are accounted for in accordance with TFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with profit/loss line in profit/loss from derivative financial transactions. Customers. Except for certain fees related with certain banking transactions and recognized when the related service is given, When a derivative financial instrument, is originally designed as a hedge by the Bank, the relationship between the Bank’s fees and commissions received or paid, and other fees and commissions paid to financial institutions are accounted under financial risk from hedged item and the hedging instrument, the risk management objectives and strategy of hedging accrual basis of accounting throughout the service period. transaction and the methods that will be used in the measurement of effectiveness, describe in written. The Bank, at the VII. Explanations on financial assets beginning of the aforementioned engagement and during the ongoing process, evaluates whether the hedging instruments are effective on changes in the fair values or actual results of hedging are within the range of 80% 125%. Initial recognition of financial instruments IV. Explanations on associates and subsidiaries Initial recognition of financial instruments the Bank shall recognize a financial asset or a financial liability in its statement of financial position when, and only when, the entity becomes party to the contractual provisions of the instrument. A regular Financial subsidiaries and Investments in associates are taken into the financial statements in accordance with the “TAS way purchase or sale of financial assets shall be recognized and derecognized, as applicable, using trade date accounting or 27-Separate Financial Statements” standard within the framework TFRS 9 “Financial Instruments: Turkish Financial Reporting settlement date accounting. Purchase and sale transactions of securities are accounted at the settlement date. Standarts”. Non financial subsidiaries and associates are presented in the financial statements in accordance with the “TAS 27-Separate Financial Statements” standard with their cost values after the deduction of, if any, impairment losses. Initial measurement of financial instruments V. Explanations on interest income and expenses The classification of financial instruments at initial recognition depends on the contractual conditions and the relevant business model. Except for the assets in the scope of TFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers, at initial recognition, Interest income is recorded according to the effective interest rate method (rate equal to net present value of future cash the Bank measures financial asset or financial liabilities at fair value plus or minus, in the case of a financial asset or financial flows or financial assets and liabilities) defined in the TFRS 9 “Financial Instruments” standard by applying the effective liability not at fair value through profit/loss, transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or issue of the interest rate to the gross carrying amount of a financial asset except for: purchased or originated credit-impaired financial financial asset or financial liability. assets or financial assets that are not purchased or originated credit-impaired financial assets but subsequently have become credit-impaired financial assets. Classification of financial instruments If the financial asset is impaired and classified as a non-performing receivable, the Bank applies the effective interest rate on On which category a financial instruments shall be classified at initial recognition depends on both the business model for the amortized cost of the asset for subsequent reporting periods. Such interest income calculation is made on an individual managing the financial assets and the contractual cash flow characteristics of the financial asset. As per TFRS 9, the Bank contract basis for all financial assets subject to impairment calculation. It is used effective interest rate during calculation of classifies a financial asset on the basis of its contractual cash flow characteristics if the financial asset is held within a business loss given default rate in expected creditloss models and accordingly, the calculation of expected credit losses includes an model whose objective is to hold assets to collect contractual cash flows or within a business model whose objective is interest amount. achieved by both collecting contractual cash flows and selling financial assets. In order to assess whether the element provides consideration for only the passage of time, an entity applies judgement and considers relevant factors such as the Therefore, a reclassification is made between the accounts of “Expected Credit Losses” and “Interest Income From Loans” for currency in which the financial asset is denominated and the period for which the interest rate is set. When the contractual calculated amount. If the credit risk of the financial instrument improves to the extent that the financial asset is no longer conditions are exposed to the risks which are not consistent with the basic lending arrangement or variability of cash flows, considered as impaired and the improvement can be attributed to an incident that eventually takes place (such as an increase the relevant financial asset is measured at fair value through profit or loss. The bank tested all financial assets within the scope in the loan’s credit rating), interest income at subsequent reporting periods are calculated by applying the effective interest of TFRS 9 “whether the contractual cash flows arise solely from interest and capitals” and assessed the asset classification rate to the gross amount. within the business model. Assessment of business model As per TFRS 9, the Bank’s business model is determined at a level that reflects how groups of financial assets are managed together to achieve a particular business objective. The Bank’s business models are divided into three categories. 172 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 173 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION THREE (Continued) SECTION THREE (Continued) ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) VII. Explanations on financial assets (continued) VII. Explanations on financial assets (continued) Business model whose aimed to hold assets in order to collect contractual cash flows: a. Financial assets at the fair value through profit or loss (continued This is a business model whose objective is to hold assets in order to collect contractual cash flows are managed to realise Financial assets at the fair value through profit or loss are initially recognized at fair value and measured at their fair value cash flows by collecting contractual payments over the life of the instrument. The financial assets that are held within the after recognition. All gains and losses arising from these valuations are reflected in the income statement. According scope of this business model are measured at amortized cost when the contractual terms of the financial asset meet the to uniform chart of accounts explanations interest income earned on financial asset and the difference between their condition of giving rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest on the principal acquisition costs and amortized costs are recorded as “interest income” in the statement of profit or loss. The differences amount outstanding Receivables from Central Bank, Banks, Money Market Placements, investments under financial assets between the amortized costs and the fair values of such assets are recorded under “trading account income/losses” in the measured at amortized cost, loans, leasing receivables, factoring receivables and other receivables are assessed within this statement of profit or loss. In cases where such assets are sold before their maturities, the gains/losses on such sales are business model. recorded under “trading account income/losses”. Business model aimed to collect contractual cash flows and sell financial assets: Syndicated loans extended to Ojer Telekomünikasyon A.Ş. (OTAŞ) in the previous periods were restructed. Within this scope, in order to form the colleteral of these loans, taking over process of 192.500.000.000 A Group shares which constitute This is a model whose objective is achieved by both collecting contractual cash flows and selling financial assets: the Bank 55% of Turk Telekom’s issued capital, pledged in favor of the creditors, were completed on 21 December 2018, by LYY may hold financial assets in a business model whose objective is achieved by both collecting contractual cash flows and Telekomünikasyon A.Ş. (formerly known as Levent Yapılandırma Yonetimi A.Ş.) which was established as a privately-owned selling financial assets. Fair value change of the financial assets that are held within the scope of this business model are company and all creditors are direct or indirect shareholders. The Bank has a share of 1,617% in LYY Telekomünikasyon A.Ş., accounted under other comprehensive income when the contractual terms of the financial asset meet the condition of giving which is the share of OTAŞ receivables. rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding. Financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income are assessed in this business model. Later, at the Ordinary General Assembly Meeting of LYY Telekomünikasyon A.Ş. held on September 23, 2019, it was decided to convert some of the loan to capital and add it to the capital of LYY Telekomünikasyon A.Ş. The nominal value of shares Other business models: increased from TL 0,8 to TL 64.403. This amount is presented under “Property and Equipment Held for Sale and Related to Discontinued Operations” in the financial statements. As of 31 December 2019, the portion which is followed accounted Financial assets are measured at fair value through profit or loss in case they are not held within a business model whose under credit loan is TL 263.097 and classified under “Other Financial Assets” under “ Financial Assets at Fair Value through objective is to hold assets to collect contractual cash flows or within a business model whose objective is achieved by both Profit or Loss” in the financial statements”. The total fair value decrease recognized for loans and equity amounted to TL 34.196 collecting contractual cash flows and selling financial assets. Financial assets measured at fair value through profit/loss and and the total amount is classified under “Financial Assets at Fair Value Through Profit and Loss ”. derivative financial assets are assesed in this business model. Total assets amounting to TL 327.499 are measured at fair value under TFRS 9 Financial Instruments Standard and TFRS 5 Measurement categories of financial assets and liabilities Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations. The determination of this value is based on the results of an independent Financial assets are classified in three main categories as listed below: appraisal firm. In the valuation study, fair value is determined by considering the average of different methods (discounted cash flows, similar market multipliers, similar transaction multipliers in the same sector, market value and analyst reports). The Financial assets measured at fair value through profit/loss maturity of the loan is 1 year and the maturity can be extended. Financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income and Financial assets measured at amortized cost The main objective of the lending banks is to transfer Türk Telekom shares to an expert investor by providing the necessary conditions as quickly as possible. 55% of LYY Telekomünikasyon A.Ş. was authorized as an international investment bank sales a. Financial assets at the fair value through profit or loss: consultant on 19 September 2019 for the sale of its shares. In this context, necessary studies related to sales and negotiations with potential investors will be initiated. Financial assets at fair value through profit/loss are financial assets other than the ones that are managed with business model that aimed to hold to collect contractual cash flows or business model that aims to collect both the contractual cash flows and cash flows arising from the sale of the assets; and in case of the contractual terms of the financial asset do not lead to cash flows representing solely payments of principal and interest at certain date; that are either acquired for generating a profit from shortterm fluctuations in prices or are financial assets included in a portfolio aiming to short-term profit making. The Bank classifies certain loans and securities issued at their origination dates, as financial assets/liabilities at fair value through profit/loss, irrevocably in order to eliminate any accounting mismatch in compliance with TFRS 9. 174 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 175 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION THREE (Continued) SECTION THREE (Continued) ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) VII. Explanations on financial assets (continued) VII. Explanations on financial assets (continued) b. Financial Assets at Fair Value Through Other Comprehensive Income: These securities are valued and accounted according to the effective interest method based on the real coupon rates and the reference inflation index at the issue date and the estimated inflation rate. As stated in the Investor’s Guide of CPI In addition to financial assets within a business model that aims to hold to collect contractual cash flows and aims to hold Government Bonds by Republic of Turkey Undersecretariat of Treasury the reference indices used to calculate the actual to sell, financial asset with contractual terms that lead to cash flows are solely payments of principal and interest at certain coupon payment amounts of these securities are based on the previous two months CPI’s. The Bank determines the dates, they are classified as fair value through other comprehensive income. Financial assets at fair value through other estimated inflation rate accordingly. The inflation rate is estimated by considering the expectancies of the Central Bank and comprehensive income are recognized by adding transaction cost to acquisition cost reflecting the fair value of the financial the Bank which are updated as needed within the year. asset. After the recognition, financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income are measured at fair value. Interest income calculated with effective interest rate method arising from financial assets at fair value through other d. Loans comprehensive income and dividend income from equity securities are recorded to income statement. Loans are financial assets that have fixed or determinable payments terms and are not quoted in an active market. Loans are “Unrealized gains and losses” arising from the difference between the amortized cost and the fair value of financial assets at initially recognized at acquisition cost plus transaction costs presenting their fair value and thereafter measured at amortized fair value through other comprehensive income are not reflected in the income statement of the period until the acquisition cost using the “Effective Interest Rate (internal rate of return) Method”. Duties paid, transaction costs and other similar of the asset, sale of the asset, the disposal of the asset, and impairment of the asset and they are accounted under the expenses on assets received against such risks are considered as a part of transaction cost and charged to customers. Turkish “Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income or Loss Reclassified Through Profit or Loss” under shareholders’ equity. Equity Lira (“TL”) cash loans are composed of foreign currency indexed loans and working capital loans; foreign currency (“FC”) cash securities, which are classified as financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income, that have a quoted loans are composed of investment loans, export financing loans and working capital loans. market price in an active market and whose fair values can be reliably measured are carried at fair value. Equity securities that do not have a quoted market price in an active market and whose fair values cannot be reliably measured are carried at cost, All loans of the bank has classified under Measured at Amortized Cost, after loan portfolio passed the test of “ All cash flows less provision for impairment. from contracts are made only by interest and principal” during the transition period. During initial recognition an entity can choose in a irrecovable was to record the changes of the fair value of the investment Foreign currency indexed loans are converted into TL from the foreign currency rate as of the opening date and followed in in an equity instrument that is not held for trading purposes in the other comprehensive income. In the case of this TL accounts. Repayments are measured with the foreign currency rate at the payment date, the foreign currency gains and preference, the dividend from the investment is taken into the financial statements as profit or loss. losses are reflected to the income statement. c. Financial Assets Measured at Amortized Cost: VIII. Explanations on impairment of financial assets Financial assets that are held for collection of contractual cash flows where those cash flows represent solely payments Bank recognizes a loss allowance for expected credit losses on financial assets and loans measured at amortized cost, financial of principal and interest are classified as financial assets measured at amortized cost. Financial assets measured at assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income, loan commitments and financial guarantee contracts amortized cost are initially recognized at acquisition cost including the transaction costs which reflect the fair value of not measured at fair value through profit/loss based on TFRS 9 and the regulation published in the Official Gazette no. 29750 those instruments and subsequently recognized at amortized cost by using effective interest rate method. Interest income dated 22 June 2016 in connection with “Procedures and Principals regarding Classification of Loans and Allowances Allocated obtained from financial assets measured at amortized cost is accounted in income statement. In the “Fair value through for Such Loans” effective from 1 January 2018. TFRS 9 impairment requirements are not eligible for equity instruments. other comprehensive income” and “measured at amortized cost” securities portfolio of the Bank, there are Consumer Price At each reporting date, whether the credit risk on a financial instrument has increased significantly since initial recognition is Indexed (CPI) Bonds. The Bank considered expected inflation index of future cash flows prevailing at the reporting date while assessed. The Bank considers the changes in the default risk of financial instrument, when making the assessment. calculating internal rate of return of the Consumer Price Indexed (CPI) marketable securities. The effect of this application is accounted as interest received from marketable securities in the unconsolidated financial statements. Calculation of expected credit losses The expected credit loss estimates are required to be unbiased, probability-weighted and include supportable information about past events, current conditions, and forecasts of future economic conditions. Risk parameters used in TFRS 9 calculations are included in the future macroeconomic information. While macroeconomic information is included, macroeconomic forecasting models and multiple scenarios used in the Internal Capital Assessment Process (“ICAAP”) are considered. 176 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 177 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION THREE (Continued) SECTION THREE (Continued) ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) VIII. Explanations on impairment of financial assets (continued) VIII. Explanations on impairment of financial assets (continued) Calculation of expected credit losses (continued) Calculation of expected credit losses (continued) Within the scope of TFRS 9, the probability of default (PD), Loss given default (LGD) and Exposure at default (EAD) models Stage 3: have been developed. The models developed under TFRS 9 are based on the following segmentation elements: Stage 3 includes financial assets that have objective evidence of impairment at the reporting date. For these assets, lifetime Loan portfolio (corporate/specilization) expected credit losses are recognized and interest revenue is calculated on the net carrying amount. The probability of Product type default is taken into account as 100%. Credit risk rating notes (ratings) The default assessment of the Bank is made according to the following conditions: Colleteral type 1. Objective Default Definition: It means debt having past due more than 90 days. Current definition of default in the Bank Duration since origination of a loan and its consolidated financial subsidiaries is based on a more than 90 days past due definition. Remaining time to maturity 2. Subjective Default Definition: It means a debt is considered is unlikely to be paid. Whenever an obligor is considered is Exposure at default unlikely to pay its credit obligations, it should be considered as defaulted regardless of the existence of any past-due amount or of the number of days past due. Probability of Default (PD): PD refers to the likelihood that a loan will default within a specified time horizon given certain characteristics. Based on TFRS 9, two different PDs are used in order to calculate expected credit losses: Debt instruments measured at fair value through other comprehensive income 12-month PD: as the estimated probability of default occurring within the next 12 months following the balance sheet date. As of 1 January 2018, the impairment requirements are applies for the recognition and measurement of a loss allowance for financial assets that are measured at fair value through other comprehensive income in accordance with IFRS 9. However, the Lifetime PD: as the estimated probability of default occurring over the remaining life of the financial instrument. loss allowance shall be recognised in other comprehensive income and shall not reduce the carrying amount of the financial The Bank uses internal rating systems for loan portfolio. The internal rating models used include customer financial asset in the statement of financial position. The expected credit loss is reflected in other comprehensive income and the information and knowledge of survey responses based on expert judgement. Probability of default calculation has been accumulated amount is recycled to statement of profit/loss following the derecognition of related financial asset. carried out based on past information, current conditions and forward looking macroeconomic parameters. Significant increase in credit risk Loss Given Default (LGD): If a loan default occurs, it represents the economic loss incurred on the loan. It is expressed as a As of the reporting date, if the credit risk on a financial instrument has not increased significantly since initial recognition, the percentage. loss allowance for that financial instrument is measured at an amount equal to 12-month expected credit losses. However, if Exposure at Default (EAD): For cash loans, it corresponds to the amount of loan granted as of the reporting date. For nonthere is a significant increase in credit risk of a financial instrument since initial recognition, the Bank measures loss allowance cash loans and commitments, it is the value calculated through using credit conversion factors. Credit conversion factor regarding such instrument at an amount equal to lifetime expected credit losses. corresponds to the factor which adjusts the potential increase of the exposure between the current date and the default date. The Bank makes qualitative and quantitative assessments regarding assessment of significant increase in credit risk of Financial assets are divided into three categories depending on the increase in credit risk observed since their initial financial assets to be classified as stage 2 (Significant Increase in Credit Risk). recognition: Within the scope of quantitative assessment, the quantitative reason explaining the significant increase in the credit risk is Stage 1: based on a comparison of the probability of default calculated at the origination of the loan and the probability of default assigned for the same loan as of the reporting date. If there is a significant deterioration in PD, it is considered that there For the financial assets at initial recognition or that do not have a significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition. is a significant increase in credit risk and the financial asset is classified as stage 2. In this context, the Bank has calculated Impairment for credit risk is recorded in the amount of 12-month expected credit losses. 12-month expected credit loss is thresholds at which point the relative change is a significant deterioration. calculated based on a probability of default realized within 12 months after the reporting date. Such expected 12-month probability of default is applied on an expected exposure at default, multiplied with loss given default rate and discounted When determining the significant increase in bank credit risk, The Bank also assessed the absolute change in the PD date with the original effective interest rate. on the transaction date and on the reporting date. If the absolute change in the PD ratio is above the threshold values, the related financial asset is classified as stage 2. Stage 2: The Bank classifies the financial asset as Stage 2 (Significant Increase in Credit Risk) where any of the following conditions are In the event of a significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition, the financial asset is transferred to Stage 2. satisfied as a result of a qualitative assessment: Impairment for credit risk is determined on the basis of the instrument’s lifetime expected credit losses. Calculation of Loans overdue more than 30 days as of the reporting date expected credit losses is similar to descriptions above, but probability of default and loss given default rates are estimated Loans classified as watchlist through the life of the instrument. When there is a change in the payment plan due to restructuring 178 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 179 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION THREE (Continued) SECTION THREE (Continued) ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) IX. Explanations on offsetting, derecognition and restructuring of financial instruments IX. Explanations on offsetting, derecognition and restructuring of financial instruments (continued) a. Offsetting of financial instruments c. Reclassification of financial instruments Financial assets and liabilities are offset when the Bank has a legally enforceable right to set off, and when the Bank has the Based on TFRS 9, the Bank shall reclassify all affected financial assets at amortised cost to financial assets measured at fair intention of collecting or paying the net amount of related assets and liabilities or when the Bank has the right to offset the value through other comprehensive income and fair value through profit or loss in the subsequent accounting when, and assets and liabilities simultaneously. Otherwise, there is not any offsetting transaction about financial assets and liabilities. only when, it changes its business model for managing financial assets. b. Derecognition of financial instruments The Bank’s reclassification details of financial assets are presented in Section 3, Note VII. Derecognition of financial assets due to change in contractual terms d. Restructuring and refinancing of financial instruments Based on TFRS 9, the renegotiation or modification of the contractual cash flows of a financial asset can lead to the The Bank may change the original contractual terms of a loan (maturity, repayment structure, guarantees and sureties) which derecognition of the existing financial asset. When the modification of a financial asset results in the derecognition of the were previously signed, in case the loan cannot be repaid or if a potential payment difficulty is encountered based on the existing financial asset and the subsequent recognition of the modified financial asset, the modified asset is considered a new financing power and structure of the borrower. ‘new’ financial asset. Restructuring is to change the financial terms of existing loans in order to facilitate the payment of debt. Refinancing is When the Bank assesses the characteristics of the new contractual terms of the financial asset, it evaluates the contractual granting a new loan by the Bank which will cover either the principal or the interest payment in whole or in part of one cash flows including foreign currency rate changes, conversion to equity, counterparty changes and solely principal and or a few existing loans due to the anticipated financial difficulty which the customer or group encounter currently or will interest on principle. When the contractual cash flows of a financial asset are renegotiated or otherwise modified and the encounter in the future. Changes in the original terms of a credit risk can be made in the current contract or through a new renegotiation or modification does not result in the derecognition of that financial asset, it is recalculated the gross carrying contract. amount of the financial asset and recognized a modification gain or loss in profit or loss. Resturected Loans can be classified in standart loans unless the firm has difficulty in payment. Companies which have been Where all risks and rewards of ownership of the asset have not been transferred to another party and the Bank retains control restructured and refinanced can be removed from the watchlist when the following conditions are met: of the asset, the Bank continues to recognize the remaining portion of the asset and liabilities arising from such asset. When Subsequent to the through review of company’s financial data and its owners’ equity position, at circumstances when it is the Bank retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the transferred asset, the transferred asset continues to not anticipated that the owner of the company will face financial difficulties; and it is assessed that the restructured debt be recognized in its entirety and the consideration received is recognized as a liability. will be paid on time (starting from the date when the debt is restructured all due principal and interest payments are made on time). Derecognition of financial assets without any change in contractual terms At least 2 years should pass over the date of restructuring (or if it is later), the date of removal from non-performing loan The asset is derecognized if the contractual rights to cash flows from the financial asset are expired or the related financial category, at least 10% (or the ratio specified in the legislation) of the total principal amount at the time restructuring/ asset and all risks and rewards of ownership of the asset are transferred to another party. Except for equity instruments refinancing shall be paid and no overdue amount (principal and interest) shall remain at the date of restructuring/ measured at fair value through other comprehensive income, the total amount consisting of the gain or loss arising from the refinancing. difference between the book value and the amount obtained and any accumulated gain directly accounted in equity shall be recognized in profit/loss. In order for the restructured non-performing loans to be classified to the watchlist category, the following conditions must be met: Derecognition of financial liabilities Recovery in debt service. It shall be removed a financial liability (or a part of a financial liability) from the statement of financial position when, and only At least one year should pass over the date of restructuring when, it is extinguished when the obligation specified in the contract is discharged or cancelled or expires. Payment of all accrued and overdue amounts by debtor (interest and principal) since the date of restructuring/refinancing or the date when the debtor is classified as nonperforming (earlier date to be considered) and fulfillment of the payment condition of all overdue amounts as of the date of restructuring/refinancing Collection of all overdue amounts, disappearance of the reasons for classification as nonperforming receivable (based on the conditions mentioned above) and having no overdue more than 30 days as of the date of reclassification During the follow-up period of at least two years following the date of restructuring/refinancing, if there is a new restructuring/refinancing or a delay of more than 30 days, the transactions which were non-performing at the beginning of the follow-up period are classified as non-performing loans again. 180 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 181 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION THREE (Continued) SECTION THREE (Continued) ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) X. Explanations on sales and repurchase agreements and lending of securities XII. Explanations on goodwill and other intangible assets Funds provided under repurchase agreements are accounted under “Funds Provided under Repurchase Agreements-TL” and Goodwill arising on the acquisition of a subsidiary or a jointly controlled entity represents the excess of the cost of acquisition “Funds Provided under Repurchase Agreements-FC” accounts. over the subsidiary or jointly controlled interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the subsidiary or jointly controlled entity recognized at the date of acquisition. Goodwill is initially recognized The repurchase agreements of the Bank are based on the Eurobonds and government bonds issued by Republic of Turkey as an asset at cost and is subsequently measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. For the purpose of Undersecretariat of Treasury. Marketable securities subject to repurchase agreements are classified under assets at fair value impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of the cash-generating units expected to benefit from the synergies of through profit or loss, assets at fair value through other comprehensive income or assets at measured at amortized costs the combination. Cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually, or more with parallel to classifications of financial instruments. The income and expenses from these transactions are reflected to the frequently when there is an indication that the unit may be impaired. If the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is interest income and interest expense accounts in the income statement. Receivables from reverse repurchase agreements are less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill recorded in “Receivables from Reverse Repurchase Agreements” account in the balance sheet. allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit. An impairment loss recognized for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period. On disposal of a subsidiary or a XI. Explanations on assets held for sale and discontinued operations jointly controlled entity, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal. Assets held for sale are measured at the lower of the assets’ carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell. This assets are As of reporting date, The Bank has no goodwill on the unconsolidated financial statements. not amortized and presented separately in the financial statements. In order to classify a tangible fixed asset as held for sale, Intangible assets that are acquired prior to 1 January 2005 are carried at restated historical cost as of 31 December 2004; the asset (or the disposal group) should be available for an immediate sale in its present condition subject to the terms of and those acquired subsequently are carried at cost less accumulated amortization, and any impairment. Intangible assets any regular sales of such asset (or such disposal groups) and the sale should be highly probable. For a highly probable sale, are depreciated on a straight line basis over their expected useful lives. Depreciation method and period are reviewed the appropriate level of management must be committed to a plan to sell the asset (or the disposal groups), and an active periodically at the end of each year. Intangible assets are mainly composed of rights and they are depreciated principally on a programme to complete should be initiated to locate a customer. Also the asset (or the disposal group) should have an active straight-line basis between 1-15 years. market sale value, which is a reasonable value in relation to its current fair value. Also, the sale is expected to be accounted as a completed sale beginning from one year after the classification date; and the essential procedures to complete the plan XIII. Explanations on tangible assets should indicate the possibility of making significant changes on the plan or lower probability of cancelling. Tangible assets rather than real estate, purchased before 1 January 2005, are accounted for at their restated costs as of 31 Events or circumtances may extend the completion of the sale more than one year. Such assets are still classified as held for December 2004 and the assets purchased in the following periods are accounted for at acquisition cost less accumulated sale if there is sufficient evidence that the delay inthe sale process is duue to the events and circumtances occured beyond depreciation and reserve for impairment. Gain or loss resulting from disposals of the tangible assets is reflected to the income the control of the entity or the entry remains commited to its plan to sell the asset (or disposal group). As of 31 December statement as the difference between the net proceeds and net book value. Normal maintenance and repair expenditures are 2019, there are assets held for sale and discontinued operations amounting to TL 64.403 and explained in Section V, Note I-16. recognized as expense. A discontinued operation is a component of a bank that either has been disposed of, or is classified as held for sale. Gains or As of the third quarter of 2015, the Bank changed its accounting policy and adopted revaluation method on annual basis losses relating to discontinued operations are presented seperately in the income statement. under scope of Standard on Tangible Fixed Assets (TAS 16) with respect to valuation of immovable included in its building and lands. The amortization periods of real estates are specified in the appraisal’s report. In case of the cost of tangible assets over the net realizable value estimated under the “Turkish accounting standards for impairment of assets” (TAS 36), the value of the asset is reduced to its “net realizable value” and are reserved impairment provision associated with expense accounts. The positive difference between appraisement value and net book value of the property is accounted under shareholder’ equity. Related valuation models such as cost model, market value and discounted cash flow projections approaches are used in valuation of real estates. There is no pledge, mortgage or any other lien on tangible assets. Tangible assets are depreciated with straight-line method and their useful lives are determined in accordance with the Turkish Accounting Standards. 182 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 183 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION THREE (Continued) SECTION THREE (Continued) ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) XIII. Explanations on tangible assets (continued) XVI. Explanations on liabilities regarding employee benefits Depreciation rates and estimated useful lives of tangible assets are as follows. Bank calculates a provision for severance pay to allocate that employees need to be paid upon retirement or involuntarily leaving by estimating the present value of probable amount. There is no indemnity obligations related to the employees who Tangible Assets Expected Useful Lives (Years) Depreciation Rate (%) are employed with contract of limited duration exceeding 12 month period. Actuarial gains and losses are accounted under Cashvault 4-50 2-25 Shareholder’s Equity since 1 January 2013 in accordance with the Revised TAS 19.Employees of the Bank are members of Vehicles 5 20 “Türkiye Sınai Kalkınma Bankası Anonim Şirketi Memur ve Müstahdemleri Yardım ve Emekli Vakfı” and “Türkiye Sınai Kalkınma Other Tangible Assets 1-50 2-100 Bankası A.Ş. Mensupları Munzam Sosyal Güvenlik ve Yardımlaşma Vakfı” (“the Pension Fund”). Technical financial statements of those funds are subject to audit in accordance with the Insurance Law and provisions of “Regulations on Actuaries” issued XIV. Explanations on leasing transactions based on the related law by an actuary registered in the Actuarial Registry. The Bank as Lessor Paragraph 1 of the provisional Article 23 of the Banking Act (“Banking Act”) No: 5411 published in the Official Gazette No: 25983 on 1 November 2005 requires the transfer of banking funds to the Social Security Institution within 3 years as of the Amounts due from lessees under finance leases are recorded as receivables at the amount of the Bank’s net investment in the enactment date of the Banking Act. Under the Banking Act, in order to account for obligations, actuarial calculations will leases. The lease payments are allocated as principle and interest. Finance lease income is allocated to accounting periods so be made considering the income and expenses of those funds by a commission consisting of representatives from various as to reflect a constant periodic rate of return on the Bank’s net investment outstanding in respect of the leases. institutions. Such calculated obligation shall be settled in equal instalments in maximum 15 years. Nonetheless, the related Article of the Banking Law was annulled by the Constitutional Court’s decision No: E. 2005/39 and K. 2007/33 dated 22 March The Bank as Lessee 2007 that were published in the Official Gazette No: 26479 on 31 March 2007 as of the release of the related decision, and the execution of this article was cancelled as of its publication of the decision and the underlying reasoning for the cancellation Assets held under finance leases are recognized as assets of the Bank at their fair value at the inception of the lease or, of the related article was published in the Official Gazette No: 26731 on 15 December 2007. if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments. The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation. Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of After the publication of the reasoning of the cancellation decision of the Constitutional Court, articles related with the the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability. Finance charges transfer of banks pension fund participants to Social Security Institution based on Social Security Law numbered 5754 were are included in profit or loss in accordance with the Bank’s general policy on borrowing costs. Tangible assets acquired by accepted by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on 17 April 2008 and published in the Official Gazette No: 26870 on 8 financial leases are amortized based on the useful lives of the assets. May 2008. In accordance with TFRS 16, the lessee, at the effective date of the lease, measures the leasing liability on the present value of Present value for the liabilities of the transferees as of the transfer date would be calculated by a commission that involves the lease payments that were not paid at that date (leasing liability) and depreciates the existence of the right of use related representatives of Social Security Institution, Ministry of Finance, Turkish Treasury, State Planning Organization, BRSA, SDIF, to the same date. The lease payments shall be discounted using the interest rate implicit in the lease, if that rate can be banks and banks’ pension fund institutions and technical interest rate, used in actuarial account, would be 9,80%. If salaries readily determined. If that rate cannot be readily determined, the lesse shall use their incremental borrowing rate. The interest and benefits paid by the pension fund of banks and income and expenses of the pension funds in respect of the insurance expense on the lease liability and the depreciation expense right of use are recorded separately. branches, stated in the Law, exceeds the salaries and benefits paid under the regulations of Social Security Institution, such differences would be considered while calculating the present value for the liabilities of the transferees and the transfers are XV. Explanations on provisions and contingent liabilities completed within 3 years beginning from 1 January 2008. Provisions are recognized when there is a present obligation due to a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources According to the provisional Article 20 of 73th article of Law No. 5754 dated 17 April 2008, has become effective on 8 May embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount 2008 and was published in the Official Gazette No: 26870, transfer of Pension Funds to Social Security Institution in three of the obligation. If aforesaid criteria did not form, the Bank discloses the issues mentioned in notes to financial statements. years has been anticipated. Related resolution of the Council of Ministers related to four-year extension was published in Provisions are determined by using the Bank’s best expectation of expenses in fulfilling the obligation, and discounted to the Official Gazette No: 28227 dated 8 March 2012. It has been resolved that the transfer process has been extended two present value if material. year with Council of Ministers’ Decree, has become effective on 9 April 2011 and was published in the Official Gazette No: Explanations on contingent assets 27900. The transfer had to be completed until 8 May 2013. Accordingly, it has been resolved that, one more year extension with Council of Minister Decree No: 2013/467, has become effective on 3 May 2013 and was published in the Official Gazette Contingent assets consist of unplanned or other unexpected events that usually cause a possible inflow of economic benefits No: 28636 and transfer need to be completed until 8 May 2014. However, it has been decided to extend the time related to to the Bank. Since recognition of the contingent assets in the financial statements would result in the accounting of an transfer by the decision of Council of Minister published in the Official Gazette No. 28987 dated 30 April 2014 for one more income, which may never be generated, the related assets are not included in the financial statements; on the other hand, if year due to not to realize the transfer process. the inflow of the economic benefits of these assets to the Bank is probable, an explanation is made thereon in the footnotes of the financial statements. Nevertheless, the developments related to the contingent assets are constantly evaluated and in case the inflow of the economic benefit to the Bank is almost certain, the related asset and the respective income are recognized in the financial statements of the period in which the change occurred. Severance pay according to the current laws and collective bargaining agreements in Turkey, is paid in case of retirement or dismissal. 184 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 185 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION THREE (Continued) SECTION THREE (Continued) ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) XVI. Explanations on liabilities regarding employee benefits (continued) XVII. Explanations on taxation (continued) In accordance with the Health and Safety Law which became effective on 4 April 2015 and published in the Official Gazette Transfer pricing No: 29335 and dated 23 April 2015 and together with some amendments and statutory decree, Council of Ministers authorized for the determination of transfer date to the Social Security institution and the transfer of Pension Fund was Transfer pricing is regulated through article 13 of Corporate Tax Law titled “Transfer Pricing Through Camouflage of Earnings”. postponed to an unknown date. There is no decision taken by the Cabinet with regards to issue at the date of financial Detailed information for the practice regarding the subject is found in the “General Communiqué Regarding Camouflage of statements. Unmet social benefits and payments of the pension fund participants and other employees that receive Earnings Through Transfer Pricing”. According to the aforementioned regulations, in the case of making purchase or sales of monthly income although they are within the scope of the related settlement deeds would be met by pension funds and goods or services with relevant persons/corporations at a price that is determined against “arm’s length principle”, the gain is the institutions employ these participants after the transfer of pension funds to the Social Security Institution. The present considered to be distributed implicitly through transfer pricing and such distribution of gains is not subject to deductions in value of the liabilities, subject to the transfer to the Social Security Institution, of the Pension Fund as of 31 December 2019 means of corporate tax. has been calculated by an independent actuary in accordance with the actuarial assumptions in the Law and as per actuarial XVIII. Additional explanations on borrowings report dated 17 January 2020. There is no need for technical or actual deficit to book provision as of 31 December 2019. In addition, the Bank’s management anticipates that any liability that may come out during the transfer period and after, in the The Bank borrows funds from domestic and foreign institutions borrowing from money market and issues marketable context expressed above, would be financed by the assets of the Pension Fund and would not cause any extra burden on the securities in domestic and foreign markets when needed. Bank. The funds borrowed are recorded at their purchase costs and valued at amortized costs using the effective interest method. XVII. Explanations on taxation Some of the securities issued by the Bank and resources used with fixed interest rates are subject to fair value hedge accounting. While the credit risk and rediscounted accumulated interest on hedging liabilities are recorded in the income The income tax charge is composed of the sum of current tax charge and deferred tax benefit or charge. The current tax statement under the interest expense, the credit risk and net amount excluding accumulated interest results from hedge liability is calculated over taxable profit for the year. Taxable profit differs from profit as reported in the income statement accounting are accounted in the income statement under the derivative financial instruments gains/losses by fair value. because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible. 22% is used in the calculation of the corporate tax (31 December 2018: 22%). In accordance with the XIX. Explanations on share certificates issued Temporary Article 10 added to the Corporate Tax Law, Corporate Tax applied as 22% for corporate earnings for the taxation periods of 2018, 2019 and 2020. In the meeting of the General Assembly held on 28 March 2019, it has been resolved that, the Bank has no capital increase. Deferred tax asset or liability is recognized on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the In the meeting of the General Assembly held on 23 March 2018, it has been resolved that, paid in capital of the Bank will be financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and currently enacted tax increased from TL 2.400.000 to TL 2.800.000 by adding TL 400.000. In respect of the resolution of the General Assembly, all of rates are used to determine deferred tax on income. Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognized for all taxable temporary this increase will be incorporated from the profit of the year 2017. The increase in paid-in capital was approved by the BRSA differences and deferred tax assets are recognized for all deductible temporary differences to the extent that it is probable on 26 April 2018 and disclosed in the dated 7 June 2018 and numbered 9605 Turkish Trade Registy Gazette. that taxable profits will be available against which those deductible temporary differences can be utilized. XX. Explanations on acceptances The Bank started calculating deferred tax for the expected credit losses for Stage 1 and Stage 2. Acceptances are realized simultaneously with the payment dates of the customers and they are presented as commitments in Such assets and liabilities are not recognized if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition of the off-balance sheet accounts. other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit. XXI. Explanations on government incentives The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each reporting date. Deferred tax is reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered. Deferred The Bank does not use government incentives. tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period in which the liability is settled or the asset realized and reflected in the income statement as expense or income. Moreover, if the deferred tax is related with items directly recorded under the equity in the same or different period, deferred tax is also associated directly with equity. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are also offset. According to the second paragraph of the Article 53 of the Banking Act No 5411 dated 19 October 2005, all specific reserves for loans and other receivables are considered as deductible expense for determining corporate tax base. 186 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 187 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION THREE (Continued) SECTION THREE (Continued) ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) XXII. Explanations on segment reporting XXIII. Explanations on other matters In accordance with its mission, the Bank mainly operates in corporate and investment banking segments.The corporate 1. Changes Related to Previous Period Financial Statements banking is serving financial solutions and banking services for its medium and large-scale corporate customers. Services given to corporate customers are; investment credits, project financing, TL and foreign exchange operating loans, letters of Effects of the change of TAS 27 credit, letters of guarantees and foreign trade transaction services covering letters of guarantee with external guarantees. According to Communique published on the Official Gazette dated 9 April 2015 no.29321 related to the amendments to Income from the activities of investment banking includes income from the operations of Treasury and Corporate Finance. the Turkish Accounting Standard 27 (TAS 27) “Separate Financial Statements” an option was recognized to account to cost Under the investment banking activities, portfolio management for corporate, marketable securities intermediary activities, of assets investments of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates while applying TFRS 9 “Financial Instruments” standart or cash flow management and all types of corporate finance services is provided. The segmental allocation of the Bank’s net Turkish Accounting Standard 28 (TAS 28) for “Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures” through the equity method. profit, total assets and total liabilities are shown below. As of 1 January 2018, the Bank has started to account its financial subsidiaries and associates using the equity method Corporate Investment defined in TAS 28, Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures, and prepared the financial statements as of 31 March 2018 Current Period Banking Banking Other Total and 30 June 2018 in accordance with this standard. Net Interest Income 658.794 1.273.043 1.931.837 Considering the temporary negative effects of the fluctuations in foreign exchange markets on the net operating profit of the Net Fees and Commission Income 26.162 3.596 29.758 subsidiaries and associates, as of 31 August 2018 the equity method application has been withdrawn and it has been decided Other Income 13.780 24.955 38.735 to be valued at fair value in accordance with TFRS 9 standards.The carrying amount of the financial subsidiaries and associates Other Expense (475.376) (471.177) (159.550) (1.106.103) is measured at fair value in accordance with TFRS 9, and the valuation difference is recognized in “Accumulated Other Profit Before Tax 223.360 805.462 (134.595) 894.227 Comprehensive Income or Loss Not Reclassified Through Profit or Loss” in the financial statements of the Bank. Therefore, Tax Provision (192.582) restatement in the financial statements as of 31 March 2018 and 30 June 2018 has been withdrawn. Net Profit 701.645 Current Period Segment Assets 30.810.345 8.953.223 870.010 40.633.578 Investment in Associates and Subsidiaries 1.366.520 1.366.520 Total Assets 30.810.345 8.953.223 2.236.530 42.000.098 Segment Liabilities 34.200.426 1.031.556 1.101.220 36.333.202 Shareholders’ Equity 5.666.896 5.666.896 Total Liabilities 34.200.426 1.031.556 6.768.116 42.000.098 Corporate Investment Prior Period Banking Banking Other Total Net Interest Income 795.430 957.962 1.753.392 Net Fees and Commission Income 20.698 (1.697) 19.001 Other Income 98.169 98.169 Other Expense (512.293) (289.978) (159.028) (961.299) Profit Before Tax 303.835 666.287 (60.859) 909.263 Tax Provision (248.337) Net Profit 660.926 Prior Period Segment Assets 27.716.305 8.397.472 861.868 36.975.645 Investment in Associates and Subsidiaries 1.322.466 1.322.466 Total Assets 27.716.305 8.397.472 2.184.334 38.298.111 Segment Liabilities 31.320.591 933.391 1.325.125 33.579.107 Shareholders’ Equity 4.719.004 4.719.004 Total Liabilities 31.320.591 933.391 6.044.129 38.298.111 188 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 189 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION FOUR SECTION FOUR (Continued) INFORMATION ON FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT INFORMATION ON FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) I. Explanations related to shareholders’ equity I. Explanations related to shareholders’ equity (continued) Total capital and Capital adequacy ratio have been calculated in accordance with the “Regulation on Equity of Banks” and Excess amount arising from deferred tax assets from temporary differences “Regulation on Measurement and Assessment of Capital Adequacy of Banks”. As of 31 December 2019, the capital adequacy Excess amount arising from mortgage servicing rights ratio of Bank has been calculated as 17,79% (31 December 2018:16,20%). Excess amount arising from deferred tax assets based on temporary differences Other items to be defined by the BRSA Current Prior Deductions from Tier I capital in cases where there are no adequate additional Tier I or Tier II Period Period capitals CORE EQUITY TIER 1 CAPITAL Total Regulatory Adjustments to Tier 1 Capital 441.749 815.685 Paid-in capital to be entitled for compensation after all creditors 2.800.374 2.800.374 Core Equity Tier I Capital 5.294.332 4.155.340 Share premiums ADDITIONAL TIER 1 CAPITAL Reserves 1.215.276 518.691 Preferred Stock not Included in Core Equity and the Related Share Premiums Other comprehensive income according to TAS 1.018.786 942.117 Debt instruments and the related issuance premiums defined by the BRSA Profit 701.645 696.585 Debt instruments and the related issuance premiums defined by the BRSA (Temporary Article 4) Current Period Profit 701.645 660.926 Additional Tier I Capital before Deductions Prior Period Profit 35.659 Deductions from Additional Tier I Capital Bonus shares from associates, subsidiaries and joint-ventures not accounted in current period’s Direct and indirect investments of the Bank in its own Additional Tier I Capital profit 13.258 Investments of Bank to Banks that invest in Bank’s additional equity and components of equity Core Equity Tier 1 Capital Before Deductions 5.736.081 4.971.025 issued by financial institutions with compatible with Article 7. Deductions from Core Equity Tier 1 Capital Total of net long positions of the investments in equity items of unconsolidated banks and Valuation adjustments calculated as per the 1st clause of article 9.(i) of the Regulation on Bank financial institutions where the bank owns 10% or less of the issued share capital exceeding the Capital 10% threshold of above Tier 1 capital Current and prior periods’ losses not covered by reserves, and losses accounted under equity The total of net long position of the direct or indirect investments in additional Tier 1 capital according to TAS 69.185 252.021 of unconsolidated banks and financial institutions where the bank owns more than 10% of the issued share capital Leasehold improvements on operational leases 2.202 3.625 Other items to be defined by the BRSA Goodwill (net of related tax liability) Items to be Deducted from Tier I Capital during the Transition Period Other intangible assets other than mortgage-servicing rights (net of related tax liability) 3.029 3.125 Goodwill and other intangible assets and related deferred tax liabilities which will not deducted Deferred tax assets that rely on future profitability excluding those arising from temporary from Core Equity Tier 1 capital for the purposes of the first sub-paragraph of the Provisional Article differences (net of related tax liability) 2 of the Regulation on Banks’ Own Funds (-) Differences are not recognized at the fair value of assets and liabilities subject to hedge of cash Net deferred tax asset/liability which is not deducted from Core Equity Tier 1 capital for the flow risk purposes of the sub-paragraph of the Provisional Article 2 of the Regulation on Banks’ Own Funds Communiqué Related to Principles of the amount credit risk calculated with the Internal Ratings (-) Based Approach, total expected loss amount exceeds the total provision Deductions to be made from common equity in the case that adequate Additional Tier I Capital or Gains arising from securitization transactions Tier II Capital is not available (-) Unrealized gains and losses due to changes in own credit risk on fair valued liabilities Total Deductions From Additional Tier I Capital Net amount of defined benefit plans Total Additional Tier I Capital Investments in own common equity Total Tier I Capital (Tier I Capital=Core Equity Tier I Capital+Additional Tier I Capital) 5.294.332 4.155.340 Shares obtained against article 56, paragraph 4 of Banking Law TIER II CAPITAL Total of net long positions of the investments in equity items of unconsolidated banks and Debt instruments and the related issuance premiums defined by the BRSA 1.774.800 1.540.500 financial institutions where the bank does not own 10% or less of the issued share capital Debt instruments and the related issuance premiums defined by the BRSA (Temporary Article 4) exceeding the 10% threshold of above Tier I capital Provisions (Article 8 of the Regulation on the Equity of Banks) 498.713 359.752 Total of net long positions of the investments in equity items of unconsolidated banks and Tier II Capital Before Deductions 2.273.513 1.900.252 financial institutions where the bank owns 10% or more of the issued share capital exceeding the Deductions From Tier II Capital 10% threshold of above Tier I capital 367.333 556.914 Direct and indirect investments of the Bank on its own Tier II Capital (-) Mortgage servicing rights not deducted Investments of Bank to Banks that invest on Bank’s Tier 2 and components of equity issued by Excess amount arising from deferred tax assets from temporary differences financial institutions with the conditions declared in Article 8. Amount exceeding 15% of the common equity as per the 2nd clause of the Provisional Article 2 of Total of net long positions of the investments in equity items of unconsolidated banks and the Regulation on the Equity of Banks financial institutions where the Bank owns 10% or less of the issued share capital exceeding the 10% threshold of above Common Equity Tier I capital (-) 190 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 191 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION FOUR (Continued) SECTION FOUR (Continued) INFORMATION ON FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) INFORMATION ON FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) I. Explanations related to shareholders’ equity (continued) I. Explanations related to shareholder’s equity (continued) Total of net long positions of the investments in Tier II Capital items of unconsolidated banks and Bank specific counter-cyclical buffer requirement (%) 0,010 0,008 financial institutions where the bank owns 10% or more of the issued share capital Systematic significant buffer (%) Other items to be defined by the BRSA (-) The ratio of Additional Core Equity Tier I capital which will be calculated by the first paragraph Total Deductions from Tier II Capital of the Article 4 of Regulation on Capital Conservation and Countercyclical Capital Buffers to risk Total Tier II Capital 2.273.513 1.900.252 weighted assets 6,45 5,12 Total Capital (The sum of Tier I Capital and Tier II Capital) 7.567.845 6.055.592 Amounts below the Excess Limits as per the Deduction Principles Deductions from Total Capital Total of net long positions of the investments in equity items of unconsolidated banks and Loans granted against the articles 50 and 51 of the banking law financial institutions where the bank owns 10% or less of the issued share capital Net book values of movables and immovables exceeding the limit defined in the article 57, clause Total of net long positions of the investments in Tier I capital of unconsolidated banks and 1 of the Banking law and the assets acquired against overdue receivables and held for sale but financial institutions where the bank owns more than 10% or less of the issued share capital 566.166 471.226 retained more than five years Remaining mortgage servicing rights Other items to be defined by the BRSA Excess amount arising from deferred tax assets from temporary differences Items to be Deducted from sum of Tier I and Tier II (Capital) during the Transition Period The Sum of net long positions of investments (the portion which exceeds the 10% of Banks Limits Related to Provisions Considered in Tier II Calculation Common Equity) in the capital of banking and financial entities that are outside the scope of General reserves for receivables where the standard approach used (before regulatory consolidation, where the bank does not own more than 10% of the issued common tenthousandtwentyfive limitation) 552.284 359.752 share capital of the entity which will not deducted from Common Equity Tier I capital, Additional Up to 1,25% of total risk-weighted amount of general reserves for receivables where the standard Tier I capital, Tier II capital for the purposes of the first sub-paragraph of the Provisional Article 2 of approach used 498.713 359.752 the Regulation on Banks’ Own Funds Excess amount of total provision amount to credit risk amount of the Internal Ratings Based The Sum of net long positions of investments in the Additional Tier I capital and Tier II capital of Approach in accordance with the Communiqué on the Calculation banking, and financial entities that are outside the scope of regulatory consolidation, where the Excess amount of total provision amount to 0,6% of risk weighted receivables of credit risk bank does not own more than 10% of the issued common share capital of the entity which will amount of the Internal Ratings Based Approach in accordance with the Communiqué on the not deducted from Common Equity Tier I capital, Additional Tier I capital, Tier II capital for the Calculation purposes of the first sub-paragraph of the Provisional Article 2 of the Regulation on Banks’ Own Debt instruments subjected to Article 4 Funds (to be implemented between 1 January 2018 and 1 January 2022) The Sum of net long positions of investments in the common stock of banking and financial Upper limit for Additional Tier I Capital subjected to Temporary Article 4 entities that are outside the scope of regulatory consolidation, where the bank does not own more than 10% of the issued common share capital of the entity, mortgage servicing rights, Amounts Excess the Limits of Additional Tier I Capital subjected to Temporary Article 4 deferred tax assets arising from temporary differences which will not deducted from Core Upper limit for Additional Tier II Capital subjected to Temporary Article 4 Equity Tier I capital for the purposes of the first sub-paragraph of the Provisional Article 2 of the Amounts Excess the Limits of Additional Tier II Capital subjected to Temporary Article 4 Regulation on Banks’ Own Funds CAPITAL Explanations on the reconciliation between amounts related to equity items and on balance sheet Total Capital (Total of Tier I Capital and Tier II Capital) 7.567.845 6.055.592 There are no differences between the amounts related to equity items and on balance sheet figures. Total Risk Weighted Assets 42.536.184 37.368.844 CAPITAL ADEQUACY RATIOS Core Capital Adequacy Ratio (%) 12,45 11,12 Tier I Capital Adequacy Ratio (%) 12,45 11,12 Capital Adequacy Ratio (%) 17,79 16,20 BUFFERS Total buffer requirement (%) 2,510 1,883 Capital conservation buffer requirement (%) 2,500 1,875 192 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 193 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION FOUR (Continued) SECTION FOUR (Continued) INFORMATION ON FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) INFORMATION ON FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) I. Explanations related to shareholders’ equity (continued) I. Explanations related to shareholders’ equity (continued) Details on Subordinated Liabilities Details on Subordinated Liabilities (continued) Issuer Türkiye Sınai Kalkınma Bankası A.Ş. Convertible or non-convertible Unique identifier (eg CUSIP, ISIN etc.) XS1584113184 If convertible, conversion trigger (s) None Governing law(s) of the instrument BRSA, Cominique on Subordinated Liabilities of CMB If convertible, fully or partially None numbered CMB-II-31.1 If convertible, conversion rate None Regulatory treatment If convertible, mandatory or optional conversion None Subject to 10% deduction as of 1/1/2015 No If convertible, specify instrument type convertible into None Eligible on unconsolidated and/or consolidated basis Eligible on unconsolidated and consolidated If convertible, specify issuer of instrument it converts into None Instrument type Secondary subordinated loan which is categorized in Write-down feature subordinated loans equalling bill of exchanges If write-down, write-down trigger(s) According to number 5411 article, 71th article of Law Amount recognized in regulatory capital (Currency in mil, as 300 of Banking and number 6102 article of Turkish Code of of most recent reporting date Million USD) Commerce, if BRSA has seem in case of default. Par value of instrument (Million USD) 300 If write-down, full or partial Full or Partial Accounting classification 347011 (Liability) Subordinated Debt Instruments If write-down, permanent or temporary Permanent Original date of issuance 28 March 2017 If temporary write-down, description of write-up mechanism None Perpetual or dated Dated Position in subordination hierarchy in liquidation (specify After the senior creditors, before the TIER 1 subdebt, same Original starting and maturity date 28 March 2017 29 March 2027 (10 years) instrument type immediately senior to instrument) with TIER 2. Issuer call subject to prior supervisory approval Yes In compliance with article number 7 and 8 of “Own fund Based on the conditions written on 8th article. Optional call date, contingent call dates and redemption There is an early repayment option on 29 March 2022 (After regulation” amount 5th year) Details of incompliances with article number 7 and 8 of “Own Not based on the conditions written on 7th article. Subsequent call dates, if applicable After 5th year only for once fund regulation” Interest and Dividend Payments Fixed or floating dividend/coupon Fixed/semiannualy coupon payment, principal payment at II. Explanations related to credit risk the maturity The sectoral breakdown of loans is documented monthly and limitations are made according to evaluations. There is no Coupon rate and any related index 7,625% limitation applied geographically. Monitoring and checking is made for the treasury operations. Risk limits are identified for Existence of a dividend stopper None the operations implemented. Fully discretionary, partially discretionary or mandatory None Existence of step up or other incentive to redeem None The credit monitoring department screens the creditworthiness of loan customers once every six months regularly. The debtors’ creditworthiness is screened regularly in accordance with the related legislation. Their financial statements are Noncumulative or cumulative Noncumulative obtained as prescribed in the legislation. The credit limits have been set by the Board of Directors, the Banks credit committee and the credit management. The Bank takes enough collateral for the loans and other receivables extended. The collaterals obtained consist of personal surety ship, mortgage, cash blockage and client checks. Limits have also been set for transactions with banks. Credit risks are managed on the counterparty’s creditworthiness and limits. The definitions of past due and impaired loans and information related to impairment and provisions are provided in Section Four, Note X. 194 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 195 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION FOUR (Continued) SECTION FOUR (Continued) INFORMATION ON FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) INFORMATION ON FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) II. Explanations related to credit risk (continued) II. Explanations related to credit risk (continued) Total amount of exposures after offsetting transactions but before applying risk mitigations and the average exposure The first 100 and 200 largest cash loans constitute 73,38% and 92,54% of the total cash loans portfolio of the Bank amounts that are classified in different risk groups and types respectively (31 December 2018: 71,24% and 89,45%). Current Period Prior Period The first 100 and 200 largest non cash loans constitute 100% and 100% of the total non cash loans portfolio of the Bank Average Average respectively (31 December 2018: 100% and 100%). Risk Risk Risk Risk Amount (1) Amount(2) Amount (1) Amount(2) The first 100 and 200 largest cash and non cash loans constitute 72,73% and 91,86% of the total on and off balance sheet Exposures to sovereigns and their central banks 7.537.945 6.964.910 6.236.634 6.025.766 accounts of the Bank respectively (31 December 2018: 70,60% and 89,19%). Exposures to regional and local governments The Bank calculated the expected credit loss provision amounting to TL 555.774 in accordance with TFRS 9 impairment Exposures to administrative bodies and noncommercial model. (31 December 2018:TL 362.362.) entities 5.639 30.878 11.621 3.522 Exposures to multilateral development banks Credit risk is evaluated according to the Bank’s internal rating. Non financial services customers included in credit portfolio Exposures to international organizations are rated with respect to the Bank’s internal rating and ratings of the financial services customers, which are rated by external rating firms, are matched to the Bank’s internal ratings. Exposures to banks and securities firms 2.602.654 3.857.108 3.143.715 2.663.194 Exposures to corporates 54.929.636 52.129.922 47.303.719 42.068.121 Information of credit amounts rated by internal rating model is given table below. Retail exposures Loan Quality Categories Current Period Prior Period Exposures secured by property 1.654.869 1.516.447 1.395.232 1.240.266 Above Average Grade 9.281.586 8.454.861 Past due receivables 749.429 555.963 427.721 237.052 Average Grade 20.299.648 19.215.700 Exposures in higher-risk categories 626.348 357.746 106.668 52.661 Below Average Grade 5.408.531 3.133.218 Exposures in the form of bonds secured by mortgages Impaired 1.105.055 595.338 Securitization positions Total 36.094.820 31.399.117 Short term exposures to banks, brokerage houses and corporates As of the reporting date, the total of the Bank’s cash and non-cash loans and financial lease receivables (gross amount Equity investments in the form of collective investment including the non performing loans, excluding the expected credit losses) is TL 36.234.983 and TL 140.163 of these customers undertakings have not been rated. Equity investments 1.158.049 908.227 828.289 625.234 Other exposures 262.508 597.587 331.766 803.161 In cases where financial institutions do not have their own external ratings, the credit quality of the bank, which is the main (1) Includes total risk amounts before the effect of credit risk mitigation. shareholder of the financial institution, is evaluated as an average, taking into account the external rating of the bank. (2) Average risk amounts are the arithmetical average of the amounts in monthly reports prepared as per the Regulation on Measurement and Assessment of Capital Adequacy Ratios of Banks. The aging analysis of the receivables past due but not impaired in terms of financial asset classes, is as follows: There are control limits on positions held in the form of futures and options contracts and other similar contracts. Limits are Current Period Prior Period continuously checked by the bank management. Credit risk is managed together with the potential risks arising from market 3160 6190 3160 6190 movements. Credit risk, market risk, liquidity risk and other risks are considered as a whole. When exposed to significant credit Days Days Other Total (1) Days Days Other Total risk, the Bank is on the verge of reducing total risk by concluding futures and similar contracts, exercising their rights, fulfilling Corporate Loans 1.255 1.255 10.631 10.631 or selling their performances in a short period of time. Indemnified non-cash loans are subject to the same risk weight as the SME Loans 731 731 202 202 unpaid credits when they occur. Consumer Loans Total 1.986 1.986 10.631 202 10.833 Except for the monitoring method determined by the related legislation of the renewed and re-amortized loans, the current rating of the relevant company is changed within the Bank within the scope of internal rating application and all kinds of (1) Only the overdue amounts of the loans included in the related items are included and the total credit amount of the related loans is TL 27.724. measures are taken for risk classification. The Bank follows concentration on a maturity basis and examines the risks that differ from the normal course. Foreign transactions are made with many correspondent banks in many countries. The counterparty limits have been set in transactions with banks. As an active participant in the international banking market, the Bank does not have significant credit risk concentration when evaluated together with the financial activities of other financial institutions. 196 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 197 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION FOUR (Continued) INFORMATION ON FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) II. Explanations related to credit risk (continued) Profile of significant exposures in major region Risk Types (1) Risk Types (1) Short term exposures Equity Exposures to Exposures Exposures to banks, investments Exposures to Exposures administrative Exposures to to banks Exposures Exposures in the form brokerage in the form sovereigns and to regional bodies and multilateral Exposures to and Exposures secured in higherof bonds houses of collective their central and local noncommercial development international securities to Retail by Past due risk secured by and investment Equity Other Current Period banks governments entities banks organizations firms corporates exposures property receivables categories mortgages corporates undertakings investments exposures Total Domestic 7.512.652 1.128 1.569.356 31.396.930 1.651.791 749.429 77.654 91.820 49.012 43.099.772 European Union (EU) Countries 249.122 53.806 96.782 399.710 OECD Countries (2) 10.001 10.001 Off-Shore Banking Regions USA, Canada 172.899 172.899 Other Countries 123.972 123.972 Associates, Subsidiaries and Joint-Ventures 1.012.423 1.012.423 Unallocated Assets/ Liabilities (3) 1.459 95.295 96.754 Total 7.512.652 1.128 2.001.378 31.522.361 1.651.791 749.429 77.654 1.158.049 241.089 44.915.531 (1) Risk types in the Communiqué on “Measurement and Assessment of Capital Adequacy of Banks” have been used. Since there is no securitization position, risk class of “Securitization Positions” has not been included in the table. Includes risk amounts after the effect of credit risk mitigation and the credit conversion. (2) Includes OECD countries other than EU countries, USA and Canada. (3) Includes asset and liability items that cannot be allocated on a consistent basis. 198 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 199 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION FOUR (Continued) INFORMATION ON FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) II. Explanations related to credit risk (continued) Profile of significant exposures in major region (continued) Risk Types (1) Risk Types (1) Exposures Short term Equity to Exposures to Exposures Exposures exposures investments sovereigns Exposures administrative Exposures to to banks Exposures Exposures in the form to banks, in the form and their to regional bodies and multilateral Exposures to and Exposures secured in higherof bonds brokerage of collective central and local noncommercial development international securities to Retail by Past due risk secured by houses and investment Equity Other Prior Period banks governments entities banks organizations firms corporates exposures property receivables categories mortgages corporates undertakings investments exposures Total Domestic 6.274.497 2.324 1.966.797 27.927.285 1.388.579 427.721 1.114 18.593 80.389 38.087.299 European Union (EU) Countries 516.755 41.778 97.405 655.938 OECD Countries (2) 3.229 3.229 Off-Shore Banking Regions USA, Canada 100.763 100.763 Other Countries 109.969 109.969 Associates, Subsidiaries and Joint-Ventures 767.918 767.918 Unallocated Assets/ Liabilities (3) 1.283 56.976 58.259 Total 6.274.497 2.324 2.587.544 28.038.537 1.388.579 427.721 1.114 828.289 234.770 39.783.375 (1) Risk types in the Communiqué on “Measurement and Assessment of Capital Adequacy of Banks” have been used. Since there is no securitization position, risk class of “Securitization Positions” has not been included in the table. Includes risk amounts after the effect of credit risk mitigation and the credit conversion. (2) Includes OECD countries other than EU countries, USA and Canada (3) Includes asset and liability items that cannot be allocated on a consistent basis 200 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 201 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION FOUR (Continued) INFORMATION ON FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) II. Explanations related to credit risk (continued) Risk profile by sectors or counterparties Risk Types (1) Risk Types (1) Short term Equity Exposures to Exposures to Exposures Exposures exposures investments sovereigns Exposures administrative Exposures to to banks Exposures Exposures in the form to banks, in the form and their to regional bodies and multilateral Exposures to and secured Past due in higherof bonds brokerage of collective Equity central and local noncommercial development international securities Exposures to Retail by receirisk secured by houses and investment investOther Current Period banks governments entities banks organizations firms corporates exposures property vables categories mortgages corporates undertakings ments exposures TL FC Total Agriculture 34.935 2.790 340 29.284 8.781 38.065 Farming and Stockbreeding 34.935 2.790 28.944 8.781 37.725 Forestry 340 340 340 Fishery Manufacturing 20.513.652 372.166 670.336 77.654 1.159.284 20.474.524 21.633.808 Mining and Quarrying 577.828 16.880 594.708 594.708 Production 6.383.965 343.041 7.737 7 734.041 6.000.709 6.734.750 Electricity, Gas and Water 13.551.859 12.245 662.599 77.647 425.243 13.879.107 14.304.350 Construction 1.073.133 336.448 1.880 240.758 1.170.703 1.411.461 Services 804.012 1.128 2.001.378 9.708.254 928.324 74.423 1.158.049 96.782 3.291.630 11.480.720 14.772.350 Wholesale and Retail Trade 579.721 6.598 74423 235.666 425.076 660.742 Accommodation and Dining 460.927 676.998 86.721 1.051.204 1.137.925 Transportation and Telecommunication 2.267.772 65.459 86.341 2.246.890 2.333.231 Financial Institutions 804.012 1.128 2.001.378 3.650.355 1.088.411 96.782 2.349.613 5.292.453 7.642.066 Real Estate and Rental Services 277.980 7.816 270.164 277.980 Professional Services 1.472.443 4.179 466.164 1.010.458 1.476.622 Educational Services 192.336 17.395 50.094 159.637 209.731 Health and Social Services 806.720 227.333 9.215 1.024.838 1.034.053 Others 6.708.640 192.387 14.853 143.967 4.625.962 2.433.885 7.059.847 Total 7.512.652 1.128 2.001.378 31.522.361 1.651.791 749.429 77.654 1.158.049 241.089 9.346.918 35.568.613 44.915.531 (1) Risk types in the Communiqué on “Measurement and Assessment of Capital Adequacy of Banks” have been used. Since there is no securitization position, risk class of “Securitization Positions” has not been included in the table. Includes risk amounts after the effect of credit risk mitigation and the credit conversion. 202 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 203 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION FOUR (Continued) INFORMATION ON FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) II. Explanations related to credit risk (continued) Risk profile by sectors or counterparties (continued) Risk Types (1) Risk Types (1) Short term exposures Equity Exposures to Exposures to banks, investments Exposures to Exposures administrative Exposures to Exposures to Past Exposures in the form brokerage in the form sovereigns and to regional bodies and multilateral Exposures to banks and Retail Exposures due in higherof bonds houses of collective Equity their central and local noncommercial development international securities Exposures to exposecured by receirisk secured by and investment investOther Prior Period banks governments entities banks organizations firms corporates sures property vables categories mortgages corporates undertakings ments exposures TL FC Total Agriculture 77.627 340 33.050 44.917 77.967 Farming and Stockbreeding 77.627 32.710 44.917 77.627 Forestry 340 340 340 Fishery Manufacturing 18.424.244 390.215 417.732 1.114 1.024.780 18.208.525 19.233.305 Mining and Quarrying 574.527 16.880 12.155 579.252 591.407 Production 5.447.388 223.227 783.423 4.887.192 5.670.615 Electricity, Gas and Water 12.402.329 150.108 417.732 1.114 229.202 12.742.081 12.971.283 Construction 1.113.505 215.620 1.742 207.493 1.123.374 1.330.867 Services 743.202 2.324 2.587.544 7.963.538 767.165 8.247 828.289 177.443 2.540.765 10.536.987 13.077.752 Wholesale and Retail Trade 561.081 6.598 6.792 560.887 567.679 Accommodation and Dining 561.724 653.028 107.383 1.107.369 1.214.752 Transportation and Telecommunication 1.959.931 1.056 1.625 1.959.362 1.960.987 Financial Institutions 743.202 2.324 2.587.544 2.327.813 823.454 177.443 1.970.948 4.690.832 6.661.780 Real Estate and Rental Services 377.052 57.961 8.247 8.247 435.013 443.260 Professional Services 1.089.457 3.779 426.464 666.772 1.093.236 Educational Services 133.827 23.010 877 155.960 156.837 Health and Social Services 952.653 26.568 18.429 960.792 979.221 Others 5.531.295 459.623 15.579 56.987 3.985.349 2.078.135 6.063.484 Total 6.274.497 2.324 2.587.544 28.038.537 1.388.579 427.721 1.114 828.289 234.770 7.791.437 31.991.938 39.783.375 (1) Risk types in the Communiqué on “Measurement and Assessment of Capital Adequacy of Banks” have been used. Since there is no securitization position, risk class of “Securitization Positions” has not been included in the table. Includes risk amounts after the effect of credit risk mitigation and the credit conversion. 204 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 205 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION FOUR (Continued) SECTION FOUR (Continued) INFORMATION ON FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) INFORMATION ON FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) II. Explanations related to credit risk (continued) II. Explanations related to credit risk (continued) Analysis of maturity-bearing exposures according to remaining maturities Analysis of maturity-bearing exposures according to remaining maturities (continued) Risk Types (1) Term to Maturity Risk Types (1) Term to Maturity Current Period 1 month 1-3 months 3-6 months 6-12 months Over 1 year Prior Period 1 month 1-3 months 3-6 months 6-12 months Over 1 year Exposures to sovereigns and their central banks 843.155 358.011 391.497 158.809 4.875.385 Exposures to sovereigns and their central banks 743.202 45.012 312.004 513.776 4.619.586 Exposures to regional and local governments Exposures to regional and local governments Exposures to administrative bodies and Exposures to administrative bodies and noncommercial entities 1.128 noncommercial entities 2.324 Exposures to multilateral development banks Exposures to multilateral development banks Exposures to international organizations Exposures to international organizations Exposures to banks and securities firms 703.446 272.595 380.933 308.290 336.065 Exposures to banks and securities firms 1.566.581 170.582 44.950 803.585 Exposures to corporates 2.210.425 968.321 1.217.869 2.043.538 24.750.075 Exposures to corporates 1.049.490 764.440 837.867 1.646.756 23.532.190 Retail exposures Retail exposures Exposures secured by property 15.553 30.821 1.605.416 Exposures secured by property 395 63.006 18.081 1.307.096 Past due receivables Past due receivables Exposures in higher-risk categories 7.920 292 140 41.989 Exposures in higher-risk categories 1.114 Exposures in the form of bonds secured by mortgages Exposures in the form of bonds secured by Securitization positions mortgages Short term exposures to banks, brokerage houses and Securitization positions corporates Short term exposures to banks, brokerage houses and Equity investments in the form of collective corporates investment undertakings Equity investments in the form of collective Equity investments investment undertakings Other exposures 26 247 13.190 Equity investments Total 3.766.100 1.599.219 2.006.099 2.541.598 31.622.120 Other exposures 833 518 21.631 Total 3.362.825 980.034 1.257.827 2.179.131 30.285.202 (1) Includes risk amounts after the effect of credit risk mitigation and the credit conversion. (1) Includes risk amounts after the effect of credit risk mitigation and the credit conversion. 206 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 207 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION FOUR (Continued) SECTION FOUR (Continued) INFORMATION ON FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) INFORMATION ON FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) II. Explanations related to credit risk (continued) II. Explanations related to credit risk (continued) Credit risk under standard approach Exposures by risk weights The ratings given by international credit rating agency Fitch Ratings are used to determine the risk weights in capital Current Period adequacy calculation regarding exposures to banks and securities firm and corporates reside abroad, sovereigns and central Deducted bank. Receivables from residents in Turkey are classified as unrated. These credit ratings are not used for the instruments from issued by the debtor. Risk Weights 0% 10% 20% 50% 75% 100% 150% 200% 250% Equity Exposures Before Ratings given by Fitch Ratings are matched with credit quality levels and risk weights based on risk classes as shown in the Credit Risk Mitigation 5.093.761 1.309.159 407.242 37.477.711 79.240 566.166 372.564 following table: Exposures After Credit Risk Types Risk Mitigation 5.240.740 1.309.159 2.059.033 35.661.193 79.240 566.166 372.564 Claims on Banks and Capital Market Intermediary Prior Period Claims with Claims with Deducted Original Original Claims on from Credit Quality Maturities Less Maturities More Corporate Risk Weights 0% 10% 20% 50% 75% 100% 150% 200% 250% Equity Grades Fitch Ratings Claims on Sovereigns Than 3 Months Than 3 Months Receivables Exposures Before AAA Credit Risk Mitigation 4.458.690 1.050.126 635.810 33.177.283 2.565 471.226 563.664 AA+ Exposures After Credit 1 0% Risk Mitigation 4.646.082 1.050.126 2.025.943 31.587.433 2.565 471.226 563.664 AA AA20% 20% 20% A+ 2 A 20% A20% 50% 50% BBB+ 3 BBB 50% BBB20% 50% 100% BB+ 4 BB 100% BB50% 100% 100% B+ 5 B 100% B50% 100% 150% CCC+ CCC CCC6 150% CC C D 150% 150% 150% Unrated Unrated 100% 20% (1) 50% (1) 100% (1) Used in case when the risk weight of the sovereign of the Bank’s country is not higher. 208 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 209 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION FOUR (Continued) SECTION FOUR (Continued) INFORMATION ON FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) INFORMATION ON FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) II. Explanations related to credit risk (continued) II. Explanations related to credit risk (continued) Miscellaneous information by key sectors or counterparty Miscellaneous information by key sectors or counterparty (continued) All of the Bank’s impaired and underdeveloped receivables consist of domestic buyers. Prior Period Loans (1) Provisions Major Sectors/Counterparties Impaired Current Period Loans (1) Provisions Significant Major Sectors/Counterparties Impaired Increase in Expected Credit Significant Increase Expected Credit Credit Risk Defaulted Losses in Credit Risk Defaulted Losses (Stage 2) (Stage 3) (TFRS 9) (Stage 2) (Stage 3) (TFRS 9) Agriculture Agriculture 27.898 25.108 Farming and Stockbreeding Farming and Stockbreeding 27.898 25.108 Forestry Forestry Fishery Fishery Manufacturing 1.541.322 563.077 261.213 Manufacturing 1.650.408 957.369 465.954 Mining and Quarrying 195 195 Mining and Quarrying 196 196 Production 179.778 6.975 23.552 Production 336.505 18.277 38.327 Electricity, Gas and Water 1.361.544 555.907 237.466 Electricity, Gas and Water 1.313.903 938.896 427.431 Services 940.633 20.618 92.768 Services 1.547.731 113.255 200.516 Wholesale and Retail Trade Wholesale and Retail Trade 69.088 107.441 52.364 Accommodation and Dining 2.378 53 Accommodation and Dining Transportation and Telecommunication 136.988 15.754 Transportation and Telecommunication 164.354 53.229 Financial Institutions Financial Institutions Real Estate, Rental and Management Services 801.267 20.618 76.961 Real Estate, Rental and Management Services 926.288 5.814 46.196 Professional Services Professional Services Educational Services Educational Services Health and Social Services Health and Social Services 388.001 48.727 Others 170.944 8.679 21.812 Others 201.212 4.352 12.674 Total 2.652.899 592.374 375.793 Total 3.399.351 1.102.874 704.252 (1) Includes cash loans. (1) Includes cash loans and leasing receivables. Information related with value adjustments and loan loss provisions Opening Provision for Provision Other Closing Current Period balance (1) the period reversals adjustments balance Stage 3 Provisions 164.653 198.007 (9.215) 353.445 Stage 1-2 Provisions 362.362 193.412 555.774 Opening Provision for Provision Other Closing Prior Period balance the period reversals adjustments balance Stage 3 Provisions 48.025 125.642 (9.014) 164.653 Stage 1-2 Provisions 148.863 213.499 362.362 210 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 211 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION FOUR (Continued) SECTION FOUR (Continued) INFORMATION ON FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) INFORMATION ON FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) II. Explanations related to credit risk (continued) III. Explanations related to currency risk (continued) Exposures Subject to Countercyclical Capital Buffer Information on the Bank’s foreign currency risk: The geographical distribution of receivables from the private sector taken into account for Calculation of Bank specific Current Period Euro US Dollar Other FC Total Counter Cyclical Capital Buffer with the scope of Capital Conservation and Counter-Cyclical Capital Buffers Regulation which Assets Cash (Cash in Vault, Foreign Currency Cash, Money in Transit, Checks is published on the Official Gazette no.28812 dated 5 November 2013 and sub arrangements is given table below. Purchased, Precious Metals) and Balances with the Central Bank of Turkey 326.415 477.113 803.528 Current Period Banks 18.601 51.548 7.695 77.844 Private Sector Loans in Risk Weighted Amount Financial Assets at Fair Value Through Profit or Loss (1) 74.570 378.039 1.012 453.621 Country risk taken ultimately Banking Book calculations for Trading Book Total Money Market Placements United States 39.819 39.819 Financial Assets at Fair Value Through Other Comprehensive Income 61.199 1.915.940 1.977.139 Georgia 123.972 123.972 Loans (2) 13.526.294 14.764.672 28.290.966 England 51.710 51.710 Subsidiaries, Associates and Entities Under Common Control (Joint Vent.) Turkey 37.295.281 37.295.281 Financial Assets Measured at Amortized Cost 299.266 299.266 Total 37.510.782 37.510.782 Derivative Financial Assets for Hedging Purposes 67.884 67.884 Tangible Assets Prior Period Intangible Assets Private Sector Loans in Risk Weighted Amount Other Assets (3) 76.468 323.096 399.564 Country risk taken ultimately Banking Book calculations for Trading Book Total Total Assets 14.083.547 18.277.558 8.707 32.369.812 United States 5.823 5.823 Liabilities Georgia 109.969 109.969 Bank Deposits Foreign Currency Deposits England 62.733 62.733 Money Market Borrowings 128.954 533.218 662.172 Turkey 32.532.046 32.532.046 Funds Provided From Other Financial Institutions 11.843.455 13.887.946 25.731.401 Total 32.710.571 32.710.571 Marketable Securities Issued (4) 7.853.495 7.853.495 Miscellaneous Payables 7.953 49.227 405 57.585 III. Explanations related to currency risk Derivative Financial Liabilities for Hedging Purposes (5) 16.545 16.545 Other Liabilities (6) 84.827 117.885 494 203.206 No long or short position is taken due to the uncertainties and changes in the markets therefore; no exposure to foreign Total Liabilities 12.065.189 22.458.316 899 34.524.404 currency risk is expected. However, possible foreign currency risks are calculated on monthly basis under the standard Net Balance Sheet Position 2.018.358 (4.180.758) 7.808 (2.154.592) method in the foreign currency risk table and their results are reported to the official authorities and the Bank’s top Net Off-Balance Sheet Position (1.929.912) 4.460.081 (7.788) 2.522.381 management. Thus, foreign currency risk is closely monitored. Foreign currency risk, as a part of general market risk, is also Financial Derivative Assets 1.037.523 7.074.810 149.898 8.262.231 taken into consideration in the calculation of Capital Adequacy Standard Ratio. Financial Derivative Liabilities (2.967.435) (2.614.729) (157.686) (5.739.850) Non-Cash Loans (7) 1.806.354 2.287.913 2.715 4.096.982 No short position is taken regarding foreign currency risk, whereas, counter position is taken for any foreign currency risks Prior Period arising from customer transactions as to avoid foreign currency risk. Total Assets 12.782.716 16.915.932 17.057 29.715.705 Total Liabilities 11.471.315 20.926.945 952 32.399.212 Announced current foreign exchange buying rates of the Bank as at reporting date and the previous five working days in US Net Balance Sheet Position 1.311.401 (4.011.013) 16.105 (2.683.507) Dollar and Euro are as follows: Net Off -Balance Sheet Position (1.222.855) 3.956.152 (14.992) 2.718.305 Financial Derivative Assets 1.902.722 6.761.213 153.506 8.817.441 1 US Dollar 1 Euro Financial Derivative Liabilities (3.125.577) (2.805.061) (168.498) (6.099.136) The Bank’s “Foreign Exchange Valuation Rate” Non-Cash Loans (7) 1.351.786 1.334.076 2.685.862 31 December 2019 5,9160 6,6289 (1) Exchange rate differences arising from derivative transactions amounting to TL 50.658 is deducted from “Financial Assets at Fair Value Through Profit and Loss”. Prior Five Workdays: (2) Loans include TL 1.550.351 foreign currency indexed loans, TL 128.874 financial lease receivables, TL 637.135 non-performing loans, and TL (154.436) credit-impaired losses (stage III/specific provision). 30 December 2019 5,9150 6,6213 (3) Prepaid expenses amounting to TL 1.628, 12 months expected credit loss for other assets amounting to TL (1.041) are not included other assets. 27 December 2019 5,9075 6,5697 (4) Includes Tier 2 subordinated bonds which are classified on the balance sheet as subordinated loans. 26 December 2019 5,9100 6,5547 (5) Derivative financial assets for hedging purposes has classified in line of derivative financial assets in financial statement. 25 December 2019 5,9140 6,5560 Derivative financial liabilities for hedging purposes has classified in line of derivative financial liabilities in financial statement. 24 December 2019 5,9100 6,5539 (6) Marketable securities value increase fund amounting to TL (3.357), exchange rate differences arising from derivative transactions amounting to TL 45.752, forward foreign exchange purchase transaction rediscounts amounting to TL 24, and other provisions amounting to TL 22.070 have not been included in “Other Liabilities”. Simple arithmetic one month averages of the US Dollar and Euro buying rates of the Bank before the reporting date are full TL (7) Has no effect on net off-balance sheet position. 212 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 213 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION FOUR (Continued) SECTION FOUR (Continued) INFORMATION ON FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) INFORMATION ON FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) III. Explanations related to currency risk (continued) IV. Explanations related to interest rate risk (continued) Information on the Bank’s foreign currency risk: (Continued) Information related to the interest rate sensitivity of assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet items (based on repricing dates) The Bank is mostly exposed to Euro, US Dollars and other foreign currencies. Up to 1 1-3 3-12 1-5 5 Years and Non-interest The following tables detail the Bank’s sensitivity to 10% increase/decrease in the TL against US Dollar, Euro and other Current Period Month Months Months Years Over bearing (1) Total (2) currencies. Assets Cash (Cash in Vault, Foreign Currency Increase in Currency Rate Effect on Profit/Loss (1) Effect on Equity (2) Cash, Money in Transit, Checks % Current Period Prior Period Current Period Prior Period Purchased) and Balances with the Central Bank of Turkey(2) 803.582 26 803.608 US Dollar 10 28.442 (6.030) (509) 544 Banks (2) 66.978 11.120 78.098 Euro 10 8.835 8.823 10 31 Financial Assets at Fair Value Through Other 10 2 111 Profit and Loss (3) 187.071 401.575 316.607 151.629 168.513 1.225.395 Money Market Placements (2) 252.767 272.580 252 525.599 Decrease in Currency Rate Effect on Profit/Loss (1) Effect on Equity (2) Financial Assets at Fair Value Through % Current Period Prior Period Current Period Prior Period Other Comprehensive Income (2) 159.716 436.915 1.147.301 1.646.055 679.717 94.459 4.164.163 US Dollar 10 (28.442) 6.030 509 (544) Loans (2) 5.398.515 7.365.035 8.697.347 5.230.649 3.855.702 30.547.248 Financial Assets Measured at Euro 10 (8.835) (8.823) (10) (31) Amortized Cost (2) 338.296 994.092 950.535 298.877 2.581.800 Other 10 (2) (111) Other Assets (2) 64.403 2.009.784 2.074.187 (1) Values expressed are before the tax effect. Total Assets 7.206.925 9.470.197 11.112.042 7.092.736 5.002.809 2.115.389 42.000.098 (2) Effect on equity does not include effect on profit/loss. Liabilities IV. Explanations related to interest rate risk Bank Deposits Other Deposits Interest rate sensitivity of the assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet items are measured by the Bank. General and specific Money Market Borrowings 1.031.556 1.031.556 interest rate risk tables in the standard method, by including assets and liabilities, are taken into account in determination of Miscellaneous Payables 69.967 69.967 Capital Adequacy Standard Ratio and to calculate the overall interest rate risk of the Bank. Marketable Securities Issued (4) 2.087.826 5.765.669 7.853.495 Funds Provided from Other Financial Forecast results, which have been formed using estimation-simulation reports are prepared and then the effects of Institutions 3.646.106 6.176.586 9.490.539 2.692.068 4.341.632 26.346.931 fluctuations in interest rates are evaluated with sensitivity and scenario analysis. Cash requirement for every maturity period Other Liabilities 121.783 222.183 127.051 47.604 6.179.528 6.698.149 are determined based on maturity distribution analysis (Gap). In addition, a positive spread between the yield on assets and Total Liabilities 4.799.445 6.398.769 11.705.416 8.505.341 4.341.632 6.249.495 42.000.098 the cost of liabilities is kept while determining interest rates. Balance Sheet Long Position 2.407.480 3.071.428 661.177 6.140.085 The amount of local borrowings is very low considering the total liabilities of the Bank. As the Bank is a development and Balance Sheet Short Position (593.374) (1.412.605) (4.134.106) (6.140.085) investment bank, it obtains most of the funding from abroad. Off-Balance Sheet Long Position 4.035.583 673.362 4.708.945 Off-Balance Sheet Short Position (1.184.952) (1.317.889) (1.773.188) (4.276.029) The fluctuations in interest rates are controlled with interest rate risk tables, gap analysis, scenario analysis and stress tests, its Total Position 1.222.528 1.753.539 (2.366.562) 2.622.978 1.334.539 (4.134.106) 432.916 effect in assets and liabilities and the probable changes in cash flows are being screened. The Bank screens many risk control ratios including the markets risk ratio to the sum of risk weighted assets and the ratio of the value at risk calculated as per the (1) Amounts in investments in associates and subsidiaries, deferred tax asset, tangible and intangible assets, other assets, other miscellenous liabilities, shareholders’ internal model to the equity. equity, provisions and tax liability are presented in non-interest bearing column, in order to reconcile the total assets and liabilities on the balance sheet. (2) Expected credit losses for stage 1 and stage 2 are netted off on the related maturity. Under the scope of risk policies, continuous controls are made to prevent assets or shareholders’ equity from adverse effects (3) Derivative financial assets and loans measured at fair value through profit or loss. because of fluctuations in interest rates or liquidity difficulties and top management, the Board of Directors and the Audit (4) Includes Tier 2 subordinated bonds which are classified on the balance sheet as subordinated loans. Committee are informed of these risks. 214 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 215 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION FOUR (Continued) SECTION FOUR (Continued) INFORMATION ON FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) INFORMATION ON FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) IV. Explanations related to interest rate risk (continued) IV. Explanations related to interest rate risk (continued) Information related to the interest rate sensitivity of assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet items (based on repricing Average interest rates applied to monetary financial instruments: % dates) Euro US Dollar Yen TL NonCurrent Period Up to 1 1-3 3-12 1-5 5 Years and interest Assets Prior Period Month Months Months Years Over bearing (1) Total Assets Cash (Cash in Vault, Foreign Currency Cash, Money in Transit, Cash (Cash in Vault, Foreign Currency Checks Purchased) and Balances with the Central Bank of Cash, Money in Transit, Checks Turkey Purchased) and Balances with the Central Banks 4,72 1,55 Bank of Turkey (2) 423.408 319.573 742.981 Financial Assets at Fair Value Through Profit Banks(2) 585.203 38.545 623.748 and Loss (2) 10,05 Financial Assets at Fair Value Through Profit and Loss (3) 283.500 438.541 498.172 48.603 1.268.816 Money Market Placements 13,50 Money Market Placements(2) 357.708 170.576 44.949 573.233 Financial Assets at Fair Value Through Other Comprehensive Available-for-Sale Financial Assets 131.914 92.670 1.341.530 1.538.414 221.517 62.732 3.388.777 Income 4,24 4,76 17,49 Loans(2) 5.426.218 6.842.331 8.791.312 5.423.543 942.241 27.425.645 Loans 4,59 6,72 16,12 Financial Assets Measured at Amortized Financial Assets Measured at Amortized Cost 5,59 12,45 Cost(2) 311.618 904.733 672.132 264.830 2.153.313 Liabilities Other Assets (2) 2.121.598 2.121.598 Total Assets 7.519.569 8.448.851 11.348.095 7.010.560 1.428.588 2.542.448 38.298.111 Bank Deposits Other Deposits Liabilities Money Market Borrowings 0,12 2,24 10,97 Bank Deposits Miscellaneous Payables Other Deposits Marketable Securities Issued (1) 5,71 Money Market Borrowings 178.907 94 179.001 Borrower Funds 0,10 1,25 7,50 Miscellaneous Payables 31.819 31.819 Marketable Securities Issued (4) 1.797.030 6.701.933 8.498.963 Funds Provided From Other Financial Institutions 1,03 2,87 10,78 Funds Provided from Other Financial (1) Includes Tier 2 subordinated bonds which are classified on the balance sheet as subordinated loans. Institutions 4.159.029 8.408.160 4.753.669 3.985.813 2.269.347 23.576.018 (2) Includes loans measured at fair value through profit or loss. Other Liabilities 232.003 262.804 284.877 45.164 5.187.462 6.012.310 Total Liabilities 4.569.939 8.671.058 6.835.576 10.732.910 2.269.347 5.219.281 38.298.111 Balance Sheet Long Position 2.949.630 4.512.519 7.462.149 Balance Sheet Short Position (222.207) (3.722.350) (840.759) (2.676.833) (7.462.149) Off-Balance Sheet Long Position 6.677.488 541.315 7.218.803 Off-Balance Sheet Short Position (1.720.265) (1.897.660) (3.335.297) (6.953.222) Total Position 1.229.365 (2.119.867) 1.177.222 2.955.138 (299.444) (2.676.833) 265.581 (1) Amounts in investments in associates and subsidiaries, deferred tax asset, tangible and intangible assets, other assets, other miscellenous liabilities, shareholders’ equity, provisions and tax liability are presented in non-interest bearing column, in order to reconcile the total assets and liabilities on the balance sheet. (2) Expected credit losses for stage 1 and stage 2 are netted off on the related maturity. (3) Derivative financial assets and loans measured at fair value through profit or loss. (4) Includes Tier 2 subordinated bonds which are classified on the balance sheet as subordinated loans. 216 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 217 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION FOUR (Continued) SECTION FOUR (Continued) INFORMATION ON FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) INFORMATION ON FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) IV. Explanations related to interest rate risk (continued) V. Explanations related to stock position risk Average interest rates applied to monetary financial instruments in prior period: % The Bank is exposed to equity shares risk arising from investments on firms traded in Borsa Istanbul (BIST). The Bank classifies its share certificate investments both as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss and financial assets at fair value Euro US Dollar Yen TL through other comprehensive income and net profit/loss of the Bank is not affected unless the Bank sells share certificates in Prior Period financial assets at fair value through profit or loss portfolio. Assets Cash (Cash in Vault, Foreign Currency Cash, Money in Transit, Equity shares risk due from banking book Checks Purchased) and Balances with the Central Bank of The table below is the comparison table of the Bank’s share certificate instruments’ book value, fair value and market value. Turkey 2,10 11,35 Banks 2,30 25,75 Current Period Comparison Financial Assets at Fair Value Through Profit Share Certificate Investments Book Value Fair Value Market Value and Loss (2) 10,05 Investment in Shares-Grade A 851.774 851.774 851.774 Money Market Placements 24,59 Quoted 851.774 851.774 851.774 Financial Assets at Fair Value Through Other Comprehensive Investment in Shares-Grade B 346.953 346.953 346.953 Income 5,62 4,32 16,94 Quoted 346.953 346.953 346.953 Loans 4,49 7,40 18,89 Financial Assets Measured at Amortized Cost 6,77 16,76 Prior Period Comparison Liabilities Share Certificate Investments Book Value Fair Value Market Value Bank Deposits Investment in Shares-Grade A 978.939 978.939 978.939 Other Deposits Quoted 978.939 978.939 978.939 Money Market Borrowings 0,75 1,50 15,00 Investment in Shares-Grade B 211.144 211.144 211.144 Miscellaneous Payables Quoted 211.144 211.144 211.144 Marketable Securities Issued (1) 5,71 Borrower Funds 0,75 1,50 15,00 On the basis of the following table, private equity investments in sufficiently diversified portfolios, type and amount of other Funds Provided From Other Financial Institutions 1,00 3,28 10,30 risks, cumulative realized gains and losses arising from selling and liquidation in the current period, total unrealized gains and losses, total revaluation increases of trading positions on stock market and their amount that included to core capital and (1) Includes Tier 2 subordinated bonds which are classified on the balance sheet as subordinated loans. supplementary capital are shown. (2) Includes loans measured at fair value through profit or loss. 218 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 219 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION FOUR (Continued) SECTION FOUR (Continued) INFORMATION ON FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) INFORMATION ON FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) V. Explanations related to stock position risk (continued) VI. Explanations related to the liquidity risk management and liquidity coverage ratio Equity shares risk due from banking book (continued) 1. Explanations related to the liquidity risk Revaluation Value 1.a Information about the governance of unconsolidated liquidity risk management, including: risk tolerance, Current Period Increases Unrealized Gains and Losses structure and responsibilities for unconsolidated liquidity risk management, internal unconsolidated liquidity Realized reporting and communication of unconsolidated liquidity risk strategy, policies and practices across business lines Revenues Included in and with the board of directors and Losses Included in Included in Supplementary Portfolio in the Period Total Core Capital Total Core Capital Capital Liquidity risk management is conducted by Treasury Department in line with the strategies set by Asset and Liability Private Equity Committee within the limits and policies approved by Board of Directors, and is monitored and controlled through reportings Investments from Risk Management, Budget Planning and Financial Control Departments to Audit Committee, Board of Directors, Senior Management and relevant departments. Share Certificates Quoted on a Stock Exchange 761.602 761.602 The Bank’s liquidity risk capacity is determined by the Bank’s internal limits and the regulations on liquidity coverage Other Share ratio and liquidity adequacy. Regarding it’s risk appetite, in addition to legal limits, the Bank also applies internal limits for Certificates 120.256 120.256 monitoring and controlling the liquidity risk. Total 881.858 881.858 Considering the Bank’s strategies and competitive conditions, Asset and Liability Committee has the responsibility of taking Revaluation Value the relevant decisions regarding optimal balance sheet management of the Bank, and monitoring the implementations. Prior Period Increases Unrealized Gains and Losses Treasury Department performs cash position management within the framework of the decisions taken at Asset and Liability Realized Committee meetings. Revenues Included in The Risk Management Department reports to the Board of Directors and the Asset and Liability Committee regarding and Losses Included in Included in Supplementary liquidity risk within the scope of internal limits and legal regulations. Additionnally, liquidity stress tests are performed Portfolio in the Period Total Core Capital Total Core Capital Capital based on various scenarios and reported with their impact on legal limit utilization. Treasury Control Unit under the Budget Private Equity Planning and Investor Relations Department also makes cash flow projection reportings to the Treasury Department and the Investments Asset Liability Committee at certain periods and when needed. Share Certificates Quoted on a Stock Exchange 724.294 724.294 1.b Information on the centralization degree of unconsolidated liquidity management and funding strategy and the Other Share functioning between the Bank and the Bank’s subsidiaries Certificates 67.478 67.478 Within the scope of consolidation, liquidity management is not centralized and each subsidiary is responsible for its own Total 791.772 791.772 liquidity management. However, the Bank monitors the liquidity risk of each subsidiary within the defined limits. 1.c Information on the Bank’s funding strategy including the policies on funding types and variety of maturities Among the main funding sources of the Bank, there are development bank credits, capital market transactions, syndicated loans, bilateral contractual resources, repo transactions and money market transactions and these sources are diversified to minimize the liquidity risk within the terms of market conditions. The funding planning based on those loans is performed long term such as a minimum of one year and the performance is monitored by the Asset and Liability Committee. 220 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 221 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION FOUR (Continued) SECTION FOUR (Continued) INFORMATION ON FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) INFORMATION ON FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) VI. Explanations related to the liquidity risk management and liquidity coverage ratio (continued) VI. Explanations related to the liquidity risk management and liquidity coverage ratio (continued) 1. Explanations related to the liquidity risk (continued) 2. Liquidity Coverage Ratio 1.ç Information on liquidity management on the basis of currencies constituting a minimum of five percent of the According to regulations which is published on 28948 numbered gazette on 21 March 2014 related to calculation of liquidity Bank’s total liabilities: coverage ratio of banks, calculated liquidity coverage ratios are shown below. Including the reporting period for the last three months unconsolidated foreign currency and total liquidity coverage ratios are shown below: The Bank’s obligations consist of Turkish Lira (TRY), US Dollar (USD) and Euro (EUR) currency types. Turkish Lira obligations mainly consist of equity and repurchase agreements, whereas foreign currency obligations consist of foreign currency credits, Rate of “Percentage to be Rate of “Percentage to securities issued and repurchase agreements. All loans provided from foreign sources are in foreign currencies. For this taken into account” not be taken into account” reason, foreign resources can be used in TL funding by currency swap transactions when necessary. Implemented Total value Implemented Total value Current Period TL+FC FC TL+FC FC 1.d Information on unconsolidated liquidity risk mitigation techniques HIGH QUALITY LIQUID ASSETS (HQLA) Unconsolidated Liquidity limits are defined for the purpose of monitoring and keeping the risk under certain levels. The 1 High quality liquid assets 3.868.331 1.696.188 Bank monitors those limits’ utilization and informs the Board of Directors, the Bank Senior Management and the relevant CASH OUTFLOWS departments regularly. Regarding those limits, the Treasury Department performs the required transactions with the relevant 2 Retail and Customers Deposits 32 5 3 1 cost and term composition in accordance with market conditions from the sources previously defined in Article c. The Bank 3 Stable deposits minimizes the liquidity risk by holding high quality liquid assets and diversification of funds. 4 Less stable deposits 32 5 3 1 1.e Information on the use of stress tests 5 Unsecured Funding other than Retail and Small Business, Customers Deposits 2.457.654 2.186.604 2.061.817 1.801.265 Within the scope of liquidity stress tests, the deteriorations that may occur in the cash flow structure of the Bank are assessed 6 Operational deposits 98.291 84.906 24.573 21.226 by the Bank’s scenarios. The results are analyzed by taking into account the risk appetite and capacity of the Bank and 7 Non-Operational Deposits reported to the senior management by the Risk Management Department ensuring the necessary actions are taken. 8 Other Unsecured Funding 2.359.363 2.101.698 2.037.244 1.780.039 9 Secured funding 1.f General information on urgent and unexpected unconsolidated liquidity situation plans 10 Other Cash Outflows 936.105 1.230.464 936.105 1.230.464 There is a Contingency Funding Plan for the contingent periods that arises beyond the Bank’s control. In a potential 11 Liquidity needs related to derivatives and market liquidity shortfall, Treasury Department is responsible from assessment, taking relevant actions and informing Asset and valuation changes on derivatives transactions 758.360 1.052.719 758.360 1.052.719 Liability Committee. In contingent cases, to identify the liquidity risk arising, cash flow projections and funding requirement 12 Debts related to the structured financial products estimations are exercised based on various scenarios. To assess the stress scenarios, cash flow in terms of local currency is 13 Commitment related to debts to financial markets monitored regularly by Treasury Department. Scenario analysis on the Bank’s unencumbered sources are conducted daily. and other off balance sheet liabilities 177.745 177.745 177.745 177.745 Transaction limits for organized markets are monitored timely and essential collateral amount to trade in those markets is 14 Commitments that are unconditionally revocable at any withheld at hand. Repo transactions and/or available for sale portfolio securities in local and foreign currency that are major time by the Bank and other contractual commitments 20.644.761 16.429.582 1.032.238 821.479 funding sources in shortfall periods for the Bank are monitored consistently. In contingent periods outflows due to the 15 Other irrevocable or conditionally revocable irrevocable commitments, contingencies and derivative transactions can be deferred temporarily in a way that won’t hurt the commitments 7.648.630 6.781.768 866.083 749.794 Bank’s reputation. TSKB has the optionality of choosing one or more of the following for meeting it’s liquidity requirement that are selling liquid assets off, increasing short term borrowing, decreasing illiquid assets, increasing capital. 16 TOTAL CASH OUTFLOWS 4.896.246 4.603.003 CASH INFLOWS 17 Secured Lending Transactions 105.105 18 Unsecured Lending Transactions 2.709.927 1.688.982 2.034.687 1.165.220 19 Other contractual cash inflows 84.214 1.356.319 84.214 1.356.319 20 TOTAL CASH INFLOWS 2.899.246 3.045.301 2.118.901 2.521.539 Upper Limit Applied Amounts 21 TOTAL HQLA STOCK 3.868.331 1.696.188 22 TOTAL NET CASH OUTFLOWS 2.777.345 2.081.464 23 LIQUIDITY COVERAGE RATIO (%) 139 81 222 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 223 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION FOUR (Continued) SECTION FOUR (Continued) INFORMATION ON FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) INFORMATION ON FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) VI. Explanations related to the liquidity risk management and liquidity coverage ratio (continued) VI. Explanations related to the liquidity risk management and liquidity coverage ratio (continued) 2. Liquidity Coverage Ratio (continued) 3. Minimum explanations related to the liquidity coverage ratio by Banks: Rate of “Percentage to As per The Regulation on The Calculation of Liquidity Coverage Ratio, Liquidity Coverage Ratio is the ratio of high quality be Rate of “Percentage to liquid assets to net cash outflows.For total and foreign currency limits 100% and 80% are assigned on consolidated and taken into account” not be taken into account” unconsolidated basis respectively. For the development and investment banks, Banking Regulations and Supervision Agency Implemented Total Implemented decided to apply zero percent to the total and foreign currency consolidated and unconsolidated liquidity coverage ratios value Total value unless stated otherwise. Prior Period TL+FC FC TL+FC FC HIGH QUALITY LIQUID ASSETS (HQLA) In the Liquidity Coverage Ratio calculation, the items with the highest impact are high quality liquid assets, foreign funds and money market transactions. High quality liquid assets mainly consist of the required reserves held in the Central Bank of the 1 High quality liquid assets 3.720.239 1.235.400 Republic of Turkey and unencumbered securities issued by the Treasury. CASH OUTFLOWS 2 Retail and Customers Deposits 37 8 4 1 Main funding source of the Bank is long term loans attained from international financial institutions. The ratio of those 3 Stable deposits loans in total funding is around 67%. The total ratio of the securities issued in purpose of funding diversification and loans 4 Less stable deposits 37 8 4 1 attained through syndication loans in overall borrowing is 26%. 7% of the Bank’s total funding is provided from repurchase Unsecured Funding other than Retail and Small Business agreements. 5 Customers Deposits 1.020.707 702.818 818.910 508.541 30-day cash flows arising from derivative transactions are included in the calculation in accordance with the Regulation. The 6 Operational deposits 49.428 39.600 12.357 9.900 Bank also takes into consideration the liabilities depending on the possibility of changing the fair values of​​ the derivative 7 Non-Operational Deposits transactions in accordance with the Regulation. 8 Other Unsecured Funding 971.279 663.218 806.553 498.641 9 Secured funding 10 Other Cash Outflows 948.443 1.183.870 948.443 1.183.870 Liquidity needs related to derivatives and market 11 valuation changes on derivatives transactions 784.624 1.020.051 784.624 1.020.051 12 Debts related to the structured financial products Commitment related to debts to financial markets 13 and other off balance sheet liabilities 163.819 163.819 163.819 163.819 Commitments that are unconditionally revocable at any time by 14 the Bank and other contractual commitments 16.578.496 13.188.834 828.925 659.442 15 Other irrevocable or conditionally revocable commitments 6.891.846 5.875.588 866.195 668.196 16 TOTAL CASH OUTFLOWS 3.462.477 3.020.050 CASH INFLOWS 17 Secured Lending Transactions 18 Unsecured Lending Transactions 2.716.065 1.556.988 2.048.576 1.089.676 19 Other contractual cash inflows 75.055 1.564.511 75.055 1.564.511 20 TOTAL CASH INFLOWS 2.791.120 3.121.499 2.123.631 2.654.187 Upper Limit Applied Amounts 21 TOTAL HQLA STOCK 3.720.239 1.235.400 22 TOTAL NET CASH OUTFLOWS 1.338.846 755.013 23 LIQUIDITY COVERAGE RATIO (%) 278 164 224 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 225 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION FOUR (Continued) SECTION FOUR (Continued) INFORMATION ON FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) INFORMATION ON FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) VI. Explanations related to the liquidity risk management and liquidity coverage ratio (continued) VII. Explanations related to the liquidity risk management and liquidity coverage ratio (continued) Presentation of assets and liabilities according to their remaining maturities: Analysis of financial liabilities by remaining contractual maturities Up to 1 1-3 3-12 1-5 5 Years and UndistriIn compliance with the Turkish Financial Reporting Standard No.7, the following table indicates the maturities of the Group’s Demand Month Months Months Years Over buted (1) Total (2) major financial liabilities which are not qualified as derivatives. The following tables have been prepared by referencing the Current Period earliest dates of undiscounted cashflow of financial liabilities. Assets Cash (Cash in Vault, Foreign Up to 1 3-12 Over 5 Currency Cash, Money in Current Period Month 1-3 Months Months 1-5 Years Years Adjustments Total Transit, Checks Purchased) and Balances with the Central Bank Liabilities of Turkey(2) 26 803.582 803.608 Funds Provided Banks(2) 11.120 66.978 78.098 from Other Financial Financial Assets at Fair Value Institutions 912.994 552.597 4.255.712 12.304.472 11.377.902 (3.056.746) 26.346.931 Through Profit and Loss (3) 326.523 477.909 395.893 25.070 1.225.395 Money Market Money Market Placements(2) 252.767 272.580 252 525.599 Borrowings 1.032.719 (1.163) 1.031.556 Financial Assets at Fair Value Through Other Comprehensive Marketable Income 70.377 363.104 574.908 2.314.896 746.419 94.459 4.164.163 Securities Issued 56.942 67.673 2.334.795 6.151.188 (757.103) 7.853.495 Loans(2) 2.685.710 1.889.416 5.011.237 14.393.970 6.566.915 30.547.248 Funds 58.950 58.950 Financial Assets Measured at Leasing Liabilities 1.329 2.684 10.737 35.087 (15.559) 34.278 Amortized Cost(2) 2.218.428 363.372 2.581.800 Total 2.062.934 622.954 6.601.244 18.490.747 11.377.902 (3.830.571) 35.325.210 Other Assets(2) 64.403 2.009.784 2.074.187 Total Assets 11.146 4.205.937 3.003.009 6.046.693 18.952.364 7.676.706 2.104.243 42.000.098 Up to 1 3-12 Over 5 Liabilities Prior Period Month 1-3 Months Months 1-5 Years Years Adjustments Total Bank Deposits Liabilities Other Deposits Funds Provided Funds Provided from Other from Other Financial Financial Institutions 909.188 517.183 3.898.939 10.993.787 10.027.834 26.346.931 Institutions 249.101 469.569 3.554.152 11.763.632 10.633.981 (3.094.417) 23.576.018 Money Market Borrowings 1.031.556 1.031.556 Marketable Securities Issued (4) 99.070 55.245 2.088.547 5.610.633 7.853.495 Money Market Miscellaneous Payables 69.967 69.967 Borrowings 178.943 97 (39) 179.001 Other Liabilities 121.783 222.183 127.051 47.604 6.179.528 6.698.149 Marketable Total Liabilities 2.161.597 794.611 6.114.537 16.652.024 10.027.834 6.249.495 42.000.098 Securities Issued 49.424 58.732 2.169.217 7.473.832 (1.252.242) 8.498.963 Liquidity Gap 11.146 2.044.340 2.208.398 (67.844) 2.300.340 (2.351.128) (4.145.252) Funds 32.529 32.529 Net Off-balance sheet Position (2.085) (180.911) 311.081 306.043 (1.212) 432.916 Total 509.997 528.398 5.723.369 19.237.464 10.633.981 (4.346.698) 32.286.511 Financial Derivative Assets 3.388.370 1.928.706 6.244.197 12.887.416 3.742.034 28.190.723 Financial Derivative Liabilities 3.390.455 2.109.617 5.933.116 12.581.373 3.743.246 27.757.807 Non-cash Loans 1.805.069 1.240.149 1.085.958 416.542 4.547.718 Prior Period Total Assets 358.118 2.914.822 1.631.373 5.881.611 18.467.685 6.860.172 2.184.330 38.298.111 Total Liabilities 535.635 428.401 5.085.636 17.572.986 9.456.172 5.219.281 38.298.111 Liquidity Gap 358.118 2.379.187 1.202.972 795.975 894.699 (2.596.000) (3.034.951) Net Off-balance sheet Position (49.908) (9.991) 23.591 286.659 15.232 265.583 Financial Derivative Assets 3.600.199 2.113.463 4.378.824 12.035.187 7.121.613 29.249.286 Financial Derivative Liabilities 3.650.107 2.123.454 4.355.233 11.748.528 7.106.381 28.983.703 Non-cash Loans 117.206 149.450 1.331.211 249.706 840.965 485.271 3.173.809 (1) Amounts in investments in associates and subsidiaries, deferred tax asset, tangible and intangible assets, other assets, other miscellenous liabilities, shareholders’ equity, provisions and tax liability are presented in non-interest bearing column, in order to reconcile the total assets and liabilities on the balance sheet. (2) Expected credit losses for stage 1 and stage 2 are netted off on the related maturity. (3) Derivative financial assets and loans measured at fair value through profit or loss. (4) Includes Tier 2 subordinated bonds which are classified on the balance sheet as subordinated loans. 226 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 227 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION FOUR (Continued) SECTION FOUR (Continued) INFORMATION ON FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) INFORMATION ON FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) VII. Explanations related to the liquidity risk management and liquidity coverage ratio (continued) Explanations related to presentation of financial assets and liabilities at fair value. Analysis of financial liabilities by remaining contractual maturities (continued) VII. Explanations related to leverage ratio Analysis of contractual expiry by maturity of the Bank’s derivative financial instruments: a) Information on subjects that causes difference in leverage ratio between current and prior period Up to 1 3-12 Over 5 The table related to calculation of leverage ratio in accordance with the principles of the “Regulation on Measurement and Current Period Month 1-3 Months Months 1-5 Years Years Total Evaluation of Banks’ Leverage Level” which is published on the Official Gazette no.28812 dated 5 November 2013 is given Swap Contracts 5.238.555 2.993.242 8.293.852 24.774.091 7.485.280 48.785.020 below. Forward Contracts 727.240 552.169 3.455.183 653.118 5.387.710 As of 31 December 2019, leverage ratio of the Bank calculated from the arithmetic average of the three months is 11,10% (31 Futures Transactions December 2018: 9,11%). Total balance sheet assets are increased by 1,90% compared to prior period. Options 813.030 492.912 428.278 41.580 1.775.800 Other b) Leverage Ratio Total 6.778.825 4.038.323 12.177.313 25.468.789 7.485.280 55.948.530 Current Period (1) Prior Period (1) Up to 1 Over 5 Balance sheet Assets Prior Period Month 1-3 Months 3-12 Months 1-5 Years Years Total 1 Balance sheet assets (excluding derivative financial assets and credit Swap Contracts 5.430.500 3.072.053 6.765.757 26.785.018 7.096.803 49.150.131 derivatives, including collaterals) 39.102.216 38.380.347 Forward Contracts 1.313.247 727.695 785.000 975.007 3.800.949 2 (Assets deducted from Core Capital) (286.811) (713.806) Futures Transactions 3 Total risk amount of balance sheet assets (sum of lines 1 and 2) 38.815.405 37.666.541 Options 726.110 1.028.724 3.476.077 37.597 5.268.508 Derivative financial assets and credit derivatives Other 13.401 13.401 4 Cost of replenishment for derivative financial assets and credit derivatives 991.440 1.232.186 Total 7.469.857 4.841.873 11.026.834 27.797.622 7.096.803 58.232.989 5 Potential credit risk amount of derivative financial assets and credit derivatives 384.647 467.538 6 Total risk amount of derivative financial assets and credit derivatives (sum of lines 4 and 5) 1.376.087 1.699.724 Financing transactions secured by marketable security or commodity 7 Risk amount of financing transactions secured by marketable security or commodity 572.349 474.363 8 Risk amount arising from intermediary transactions 9 Total risk amount of financing transactions secured by marketable security or commodity (sum of lines 7 and 8) 572.349 474.363 Off-balance sheet transactions 10 Gross notional amount of off-balance sheet transactions 8.059.823 6.453.655 11 (Correction amount due to multiplication with credit conversion rates) (2.804.361) (2.294.016) 12 Total risk of off-balance sheet transactions (sum of lines 10 and 11) 5.255.462 4.159.639 Capital and total risk 13 Core Capital 5.109.154 4.008.660 14 Total risk amount (sum of lines 3, 6, 9 and 12) 46.019.303 44.000.267 Leverage ratio 15 Leverage ratio 11,10% 9,11% (1) The arithmetic average of the last three months in the related periods in accordance with BRSA Regulation. 228 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 229 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION FOUR (Continued) SECTION FOUR (Continued) INFORMATION ON FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) INFORMATION ON FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) VIII. Explanations related to presentation of financial assets and liabilities at fair value VIII. Explanations related to presentation of financial assets and liabilities at fair value (Continued) The table below shows the carrying and fair values of the financial assets and liabilities in the financial statements of the Bank. The methodologies and assumptions used to determine fair values for those financial instruments which are not already recorded at fair value in the financial statements: Carrying Value Fair Value iFor the fair value calculation of loans, the prevailing interest rates as of the reporting date were used. Current Period Current Period iiFor the fair value calculation of the balances with banks, the prevailing interest rates as of the reporting date were used. Financial Assets 38.777.251 37.514.698 Money Market Placements 525.628 525.628 iiiFor the fair value calculation of held-to-maturity investments, quoted prices as of the reporting date were used. Banks 78.132 78.132 ivFor the fair value calculation of marketable securities issued, market prices as of the reporting date were used. Financial Assets at Fair Value Through Other Comprehensive Income 4.164.163 4.164.163 The following table shows an analysis of financial instruments recorded at fair value, between those whose fair value is Financial asset measured at amortized cost 2.585.160 2.552.348 recorded on quoted market prices, those involving valuation techniques where all model inputs are observable in the market Loans (1) 31.424.168 30.194.427 and, those where the valuation techniques involves the use of non observable inputs. Financial Liabilities 35.360.899 35.145.540 Bank Deposits The table below analyses financial instruments carried at fair value, by valuation method. Other Deposits a) Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (Level 1); Funds Provided From Other Financial Institutions (3) 27.437.437 27.437.437 b) Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (as Marketable Securities Issued (2) 7.853.495 7.638.136 prices) or indirectly (derived from prices) (Level 2); Miscellaneous Payables 69.967 69.967 c) Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (Level 3). (1) Loans include financial lease receivables. Current Period Level I Level II Level III (2) Includes Tier 2 subordinated bonds which are classified on the balance sheet as subordinated loans. Financial Assets (3) Funds provided from other financial institutions include funds borrowed,borrower funds and money market borrowings. Financial Assets at Fair Value Through Profit or Loss Carrying Value Fair Value Financial Assets at Fair Value Through Other Comprehensive Income 3.957.189 55.816 146.262 Current Period Current Period Loans at Fair Value Through Profit or Loss 263.097 Financial Assets 34.374.900 34.287.700 Associates and Subsidiaries 1.181.408 179.877 Money Market Placements 573.252 573.252 Derivative Financial Assets Held-for-trading (1) 894.414 Banks 623.754 623.754 Derivative Financial Assets for Hedging Purposes (1) 67.884 Available-For-Sale Financial Assets 3.389.020 3.389.020 Financial Liabilities Held-To-Maturity Investments 2.154.941 2.033.904 Derivative Financial Liabilities Held-for-trading (2) 467.798 Loans (1) 27.633.933 27.667.770 Derivative Financial Liabilites for Hedging Purposes (2) 16.545 Financial Liabilities 32.318.330 31.490.795 (1) Positive differences from Derivative Financial Assets Held-for-trading and Derivative Financial Assets for Hedging Purposes are classified in “1.4.1 Derivative Financial Bank Deposits Assets at Fair Value Through Profit or Loss”line in the balance sheet. Other Deposits (2) Positive differences from Derivative Financial Liabilities Held-for-trading and Derivative Financial Liabilites for Hedging Purposes are classified in “7.1 Derivative Financial Liabilities at Fair Value Through Profit or Loss”line in the balance sheet. Funds Provided From Other Financial Institutions (3) 23.787.548 23.787.548 Marketable Securities Issued (2) 8.498.963 7.671.428 Miscellaneous Payables 31.819 31.819 (1) Loans include financial lease receivables. (2) Includes Tier 2 subordinated bonds which are classified on the balance sheet as subordinated loans. (3) Funds provided from other financial institutions include funds borrowed,borrower funds and money market borrowings. 230 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 231 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION FOUR (Continued) SECTION FOUR (Continued) INFORMATION ON FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) INFORMATION ON FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) VIII. Explanations related to presentation of financial assets and liabilities at fair value (Continued) X. Explanations related to risk management (continued) Prior Period Level I Level II Level III Linkages between financial statements and risk amounts (continued) Financial Assets Financial Assets at Fair Value Through Profit or Loss Risk Management Department develops the systems required within the process of risk management and carries out the relevant activities, monitors the compliance of risks with policies, standards, limits of the Bank and its risk appetite indicators Financial Assets at Fair Value Through Other Comprehensive Income 3.260.761 43.788 79.575 and performs activities aimed at harmonization with the relevant legislation and the Basel criteria. Risk measurements are Loans at Fair Value Through Profit or Loss 290.660 performed through the standard approaches for legal reporting and the advanced approaches are utilized internally. Associates and Subsidiaries 1.181.587 136.045 Derivative Financial Assets Held-for-trading (1) 978.156 Risk Management Department submits its detailed risk management reports prepared on monthly and quarterly basis to the Derivative Financial Assets for Hedging Purposes (1) Board of Directors via the Audit Committee. These reports cover measurements regarding main risks, stress tests and scenario Financial Liabilities analyses and the status of compliance with the identified limit levels and risk appetite indicators. Derivative Financial Liabilities Held-for-trading (2) 620.061 Prospective risk assessments are carried out by conducting periodical stress tests on loan, market and interest risks and Derivative Financial Liabilites for Hedging Purposes (2) 172.258 the impact of results on the overall financial power of the Bank is evaluated. The relevant results are notified to the Audit (1) Positive differences from Derivative Financial Assets Held-for-trading and Derivative Financial Assets for Hedging Purposes are classified in “1.4.1 Derivative Financial Committee and contribute to the assessment of the financial structure of the Bank at the moment of stress. Stress test Assets at Fair Value Through Profit or Loss”line in the balance sheet. scenarios are determined by evaluating the impacts posed by previous economic crises on macroeconomic indicators (2) Positive differences from Derivative Financial Liabilities Held-for-trading and Derivative Financial Liabilites for Hedging Purposes are classified in “7.1 Derivative and expectations from the upcoming period. By estimating the risks and capital position of the Bank within the upcoming Financial Liabilities at Fair Value Through Profit or Loss”line in the balance sheet. period, various analyses are performed in terms of legal and internal capital adequacy ratios, and the ICAAP (Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process) report is submitted to the BRSA. Real estates which are presented in the financial statements at fair value are classified at level 2. IX. Explanations related to transactions made on behalf of others and fiduciary transactions The Bank performs trading transactions on behalf of its customers, and gives custody, administration and consultancy services. The Bank does not deal with fiduciary transactions. X. Explanations related to risk management Linkages between financial statements and risk amounts The footnotes prepared in accordance with the “Regulation on Calculation Risk Management Disclosures”, which was published in the Official Gazette No. 29511 of 23 October 2015 and entered into force as of 31 March 2016, and the disclosures pertaining thereto are provided in this section. As the standard approach is utilized for the calculation of the capital adequacy of the Bank, no statement has been included as regards the methods based on internal models as per the relevant communiqué. Disclosures on the Risk management approach and risk-weighted amount Risk management approach of the Bank allows for ensuring the establishment of a common risk culture covering the entire institution within the scope of the policies and codes of practice designated by the Board of Directors, for identifying risks in harmony with international arrangements and for performing the activities of measurement, analysis, monitoring and reporting accordingly. Risk Management Department has been organized within the Bank so as to ensure compliance with the relevant policies, codes of practice and processes and to manage, in parallel with these policies, the risks the Bank is exposed to. Risk Management Department, the duties and responsibilities of which are designated through the regulations approved by the Board of Directors, carries out its activities through the Executive Vice President for Internal Systems under the Audit Committee who serves independently from executive activities and executive units. 232 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 233 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION FOUR (Continued) SECTION FOUR (Continued) INFORMATION ON FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) INFORMATION ON FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) X. Explanations related to risk management (continued) X. Explanations related to risk management (continued) Overview of risk weighted assets Linkages between financial statements and risk amounts (continued) Minimum Capital Differences and linkage between asset and liabilities’ carrying values in financial statements and amounts in capital Risk Weighted Amount Requirement adequacy calculation Current Period Prior Period Current Period Current Period Carrying values of items in accordance with 1 Credit risk (excluding counterparty credit risk) 37.071.402 32.814.278 2.965.712 Turkish Accounting Standards 2 Standardised approach 37.071.402 32.814.278 2.965.712 Carrying Not subject 3 Internal rating-based approach values in to capital 4 Counterparty credit risk 1.410.244 1.497.326 112.820 financial requirements 5 Standardised approach for counterparty credit risk 1.410.244 1.497.326 112.820 statements Subject to Subject or subject to 6 Internal model method prepared as Subject to counterparty Securitization to market deduction from 7 Basic risk weight approach to internal models equity Assets per TAS credit risk credit risk Positions risk(1) capital position in the banking account Cash and balances at Central 8 Investments made in collective investment companies Bank 803.608 804.036 look-through approach Banks 78.098 78.132 9 Investments made in collective investment companies Money Market Placements 525.599 525.628 mandate-based approach Financial Assets at Fair Value 10 Investments made in collective investment companies Through Profit or Loss 263.097 263.097 1250% weighted risk approach Financial Assets at Fair Value 11 Settlement risk Through Other Comprehensive 12 Securitization positions in banking accounts Income 4.164.163 4.164.163 2.073.989 13 IRB ratings-based approach Financial Assets Measured at 14 IRB supervisory formula approach Amortized Cost 2.581.800 2.585.160 431.344 15 Simplified supervisory formula approach Derivative Financial Assets 962.298 962.298 294.149 16 Market risk 577.150 339.888 46.172 Loans 30.440.938 31.295.294 17 Standardised approach 577.150 339.888 46.172 Leasing Receivables 106.310 128.874 18 Internal model approaches Factoring Receivables 19 Operational risk 2.061.973 1.539.288 164.958 Assets Held for Sale and 20 Basic indicator approach 2.061.973 1.539.288 164.958 Discontinued Operations (net) 64.403 64.403 21 Standard approach Associates (net) 914.046 914.046 367.333 22 Advanced measurement approach Subsidiaries (net) 452.474 452.474 23 The amount of the discount threshold under the equity Joint-Ventures (net) (subject to a 250% risk weight) 1.415.415 1.178.064 113.233 Tangible Assets (net) 91.224 89.022 2.202 24 Floor adjustment Intangible Assets (net) 3.029 3.029 25 Total (1+4+7+8+9+10+11+12+16+19+23+24) 42.536.184 37.368.844 3.402.895 Investment Properties (net) Tax Assets Deffered Tax Assets 38.528 38.528 Other Assets 510.483 469.014 42.568 Total Assets 42.000.098 41.871.871 3.510.199 294.149 372.564 (1) The amount of the financial instruments included in the trading accounts in accordance with TAS within the scope of the “Regulation on Measurement and Assessment of Capital Adequacy of Banks”, has been included. 234 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 235 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION FOUR (Continued) SECTION FOUR (Continued) INFORMATION ON FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) INFORMATION ON FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) X. Explanations related to risk management (continued) X. Explanations related to risk management (continued) Linkages between financial statements and risk amounts (continued) Linkages between financial statements and risk amounts (continued) Differences and linkage between asset and liabilities’ carrying values in financial statements and amounts in capital Differences and linkage between asset and liabilities’ carrying values in financial statements and amounts in capital adequacy calculation adequacy calculation (continued) Current Periıod Carrying values of items in accordance with Prior Period Carrying values of items in accordance with Turkish Accounting Standards Turkish Accounting Standards Carrying Not subject Carrying Not subject values in to capital values in to capital financial requirements financial requirements statements Subject to Subject or subject to statements Subject to Subject or subject to prepared Subject to counterparty Securitization to market deduction prepared Subject to counterparty Securitization to market deduction Liabilities as per TAS credit risk credit risk Positions risk (1) from capital Assets as per TAS credit risk credit risk Positions risk (1) from capital Deposits Cash and balances at central Funds Borrowed 26.346.931 913.928 25.433.003 bank 742.981 743.224 Money Market Funds 1.031.556 1.031.556 Financial Assets Held for Trading 623.748 623.754 Securities Issued 6.023.450 6.023.450 Financial Assets at Fair Value Funds 58.950 58.950 through Profit and Loss 573.233 573.252 Financial Liabilities at Fair Value Banks Through Profit or Loss Money Market Placements 3.388.777 3.389.020 1.003.454 Derivative Financial Liabilities 484.343 230.707 484.343 Financial Assets Available-forFactoring Payables Sale (net) 2.153.313 2.154.941 248.394 Lease Payables 34.278 34.278 Loans and Receivables 978.156 978.156 446.158 Provisions 259.419 259.419 Factoring Receivables 27.583.787 28.092.378 Current Tax Liability 77.425 77.425 Investment Held-to-Maturity Deffered tax Liability (net) 132.518 133.929 Liabilities for Assets Held for Sale Investment in Associates (net) and Discontinued Operations Investment in Subsidiaries (net) 1 1 (net) Joint-Ventures (net) 1.017.509 1.017.509 556.914 Subortinated Debts 1.830.045 1.830.045 Finance Lease Receivables 304.957 304.957 Other Liabilities 186.805 186.805 Derivative Financial Shareholders’ Equity 5.666.896 5.666.896 Assets Held for Risk Total Liabilities 42.000.098 1.945.484 230.707 40.054.614 mMAManagemenManagement Tangible Assets (net) 60.646 57.021 3.625 (1) The amount of the financial instruments included in the trading accounts in accordance with TAS within the scope of the “Regulation on Measurement and Assessment of Capital Adequacy of Banks” has been included. Intangible Assets (net) 3.125 3.125 Investment Properties (net) Tax Assets Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations (net) 3.535 3.535 Other Assets 731.825 666.925 65.913 Total Assets 38.298.111 37.760.446 2.230.004 446.158 629.577 (1) The amount of the financial instruments included in the trading accounts in accordance with TAS within the scope of the “Regulation on Measurement and Assessment of Capital Adequacy of Banks” has been included. 236 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 237 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION FOUR (Continued) SECTION FOUR (Continued) INFORMATION ON FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) INFORMATION ON FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) X. Explanations related to risk management (continued) X. Explanations related to risk management (continued) Linkages between financial statements and risk amounts (continued) Linkages between financial statements and risk amounts (continued) Differences and linkage between asset and liabilities’ carrying values in financial statements and amounts in capital The main sources of the differences between the risk amounts and the amounts assessed in accordance with TAS in adequacy calculation (continued) the financial statements Prior Periıod Carrying values of items in accordance with Securitization Counterparty Turkish Accounting Standards Current Period Total Credit Risk Positions credit risk Market risk Carrying Not subject 1 Asset carrying value amount under values in to capital scope of regulatory consolidation (1) 42.000.098 41.871.871 3.467.631 294.149 financial requirements 2 Liabilities carrying value amount under statements Subject to Subject or subject to regulatory scope of consolidation (1) 42.000.098 1.945.484 230.707 prepared Subject to counterparty Securitization to market deduction 3 Total net amount 41.871.871 1.522.147 63.442 Liabilities as per TAS credit risk credit risk Positions risk (1) from capital 4 Off-balance sheet amounts 64.127.631 3.782.198 392.430 Deposits 5 Differences due to prudential filters (738.538) 205.389 513.708 Derivative Financial Liabilities 6 Risk Amounts 44.915.531 2.119.966 577.150 Held for Trading 23.576.018 757.816 22.818.202 (1) The differences between the values of the assets and liabilities included in the financial statement values and the capital adequacy calculation and the amounts in the Funds Borrowed 179.001 179.001 matching table. Money Market Funds 6.949.189 6.949.189 Securities Issued 32.529 32.529 Securitization Counterparty Funds Prior Period Total Credit Risk Positions credit risk (1) Market risk Miscellaneous Payables 792.319 359.618 432.701 1 Asset carrying value amount under scope of regulatory consolidation 38.298.111 37.760.446 2.230.004 446.158 Other Liabilities 2 Liabilities carrying value amount under Factoring Payables regulatory scope of consolidation(1) 38.298.111 936.817 359.618 Lease Payables 257.576 257.576 3 Total net amount 37.760.446 1.293.187 86.540 Derivative Financial Liabilities 4 Off-balance sheet amounts 64.497.907 2.757.584 422.410 Held for Risk Management 91.846 91.846 5 Differences due to prudential filters (734.655) 120.950 253.348 Provisions 6 Risk Amounts 39.783.375 1.836.547 339.888 Tax Liability Liabilities for Assets Held for Sale (1) The differences between the values of the assets and liabilities included in the financial statement values and the capital adequacy calculation and the amounts in the matching table. and Discontinued Operations (net) 1.549.774 1.549.774 Difference between the amounts of assets within the scope of legal consolidation as valued in accordance with TAS and Subortinated Debts 150.855 150.855 credit risk exposures results from the transactions which are not subject to credit risk. Difference between off-balance sheet Shareholders’ Equity 4.719.004 4.719.004 exposures and credit risk exposures results from the application of credit conversion factors to off-balance sheet exposures in Total Liabilities 38.298.111 936.817 359.618 37.001.676 line with the Regulation on the Measurement and Assessment of the Capital Adequacy of Banks. (1) The amount of the financial instruments included in the trading accounts in accordance with TAS within the scope of the “Regulation on Measurement and Assessment of Capital Adequacy of Banks” has been included. The Bank takes into consideration the principles stipulated in Annex 3 of the Regulation on the Measurement and Assessment of the Capital Adequacy of Banks for all positions concerning its trading and banking book to be considered in the measurement of its fair value and capital adequacy. The Bank generally uses fair value as valuation methodology. Valuation methods are covered in detail under the title “VI. Explanations on financial assets” in section “Accounting Policies” of chapter three of the report. 238 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 239 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION FOUR (Continued) SECTION FOUR (Continued) INFORMATION ON FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) INFORMATION ON FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) X. Explanations related to risk management (continued) X. Explanations related to risk management (continued) Explanations related to credit risk Explanations related to credit risk (continued) General qualitative information on credit risk Changes in stock of default loans and debt securities Credit risk is the possibility of incurring losses due to fulfill the credit customer or the counterparty, with whom the Bank Current Period Balance has made an agreement with, does not fulfill its obligations appropriately or is not able to meet these obligations. While the 1 Defaulted loans and debt securities at end of the previous reporting period 595.338 largest and most visible source of credit risk consists of the loans extended by the bank, other assets included in balance 2 Loans and debt securities that have defaulted since the last reporting period 515.813 sheets, non-cash loans and commitments are also taken into consideration within the scope of credit risk. 3 Receivables back to non-defaulted status Credit risk is measured and managed in accordance with the Credit Risk Policies developed within the scope of the 4 Amounts written off Risk Management Policies of the Bank. In this sense, the structure and characteristics of a loan, the provisions of loan 5 Other changes (5.313) agreements and financial conditions, structure of the risk profile until the end of maturity in parallel with potential market 6 Defaulted loans and debt securities at end of the reporting period (1+2+3+4±5) 1.105.838 trends, guarantees and collaterals, internal risk ratings and potential changes with regard to the ratings in the process of risk exposure and concentrations (a single company, a group of affiliated companies, sector, country etc.) are taken into Prior Period Balance consideration. Compliance with the limits and risk appetite levels determined by the Board of Directors is monitored. Credit 1 Defaulted loans and debt securities at end of the previous reporting period 50.688 risk is managed by loan allocation and loan monitoring units in the Bank. Creditworthiness of loan customers is monitored 2 Loans and debt securities that have defaulted since the last reporting period 638.879 and reviewed on a regular basis. Credit limits are set by the Board of Directors, the credit committee of the bank and the 3 Receivables back to non-defaulted status loan management. The Bank receives a sufficient amount of collateral in return for the loans extended thereby and its other 4 Amounts written off 146.730 receivables. 5 Other changes 52.501 Credit risk is measured, monitored and reported by the Risk Management Department. Concentrations in the loan portfolio, 6 Defaulted loans and debt securities at end of the reporting period (1+2+3+4±5) 595.338 loan quality of the portfolio, collateral structure, measurements concerning capital adequacy, stress tests and scenario analyses and the level of compliance with limits are regularly reported to the Board of Directors and the senior management. Additional disclosure related to the credit quality of assets Credit quality of assets The Bank considers stage 2 loans that collections of principal and interest payments have not been realized on due dates as past due in accordance with the “Regulation on Identification of and Provision against Non-Performing Loans and Other Gross Carrying Value in Financial Statements Allowances/ Receivables”. Prepared in Accordance with Turkish amortization Net Values Accounting Standards (TAS) and impairments (a+b+c) Loans that collections of principal and interest payments are over due more than 90 days and losing creditworthiness is Current Period Defaulted (a) Non-defaulted (b) (c) (d) considered by the Bank as impaired or provisioned loans. 1 Loans 1.102.874 35.018.618 878.511 35.242.981 General loan loss provision is calculated for past due loans; Specific provision is calculated for impaired loans. The methods 2 Debt Securities 6.701.270 46.405 6.654.865 used in determining the provision amounts are explained in Section Three Note VIII. 3 Off-balance sheet exposures 2.964 8.200.758 24.621 8.179.101 4 Total 1.105.838 49.920.646 949.537 50.076.947 Refinancing and restructuring; is the replacement of one or several loans extended by the Bank to a new loan that will cover the principal or interest payment in whole or in part due to the financial distress expected by the customer or the group in Gross Carrying Value in Financial Statements Allowances/ the present or future, or change the terms in the current loans to ensure that the debt can be paid. Prepared in Accordance with Turkish amortization Net Values Accounting Standards (TAS) and impairments (a+b+c) Prior Period Defaulted (a) Non-defaulted (b) (c) (d) 1 Loans 592.374 31.641.218 511.284 31.722.308 2 Debt Securities 5.660.271 179.046 5.481.225 3 Off-balance sheet exposures 2.964 6.273.940 11.986 6.264.918 4 Total 595.338 43.575.429 702.316 43.468.451 240 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 241 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION FOUR (Continued) SECTION FOUR (Continued) INFORMATION ON FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) INFORMATION ON FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) X. Explanations related to risk management (continued) X. Explanations related to risk management (continued) Explanations related to credit risk (continued) Explanations related to credit risk (continued) Breakdown of receivables according to major regions, sector and remaining maturities Credit risk mitigation (continued) Breakdown of receivables by major regions, sectors and remaning maturities is included in footnotes under Section Four, Qualitative disclosure on credit risk mitigation techniques (continued) Note II, “Explanations Related to Credit Risk.” The value of the real estates is determined by the valuation institutions authorized by the Capital Markets Board. Impaired loans on the basis of major regions and sectors and amounts written off corresponding provisions The main collaterals that the Bank may use within the scope of credit risk mitigation techniques; financial collaterals, On the basis of geographical regions, the receivables from the Bank consist of domestic receivables. guarantees and mortgages. At 31 December 2019, financial collaterals, guarantees and mortgages were used as the credit risk mitigation technique in the calculation of the amount subject to credit risk. On sectoral basis, the amount of the Bank’s impaired loans and related provisions is included in footnotes under Section Four, Note II. “ Information of major sectors or type of counterparties” explanations credit risk explanations . Credit risk mitigation techniques Standard approach The Bank has no written off receivables is as of 31 December 2019 (31 December 2018: TL 146.730). Exposures Exposures Exposures secured by secured Aging analysis for overdue receivables Exposures secured by financial by credit unsecured: collateral, Exposures guarantees Exposures derivatives, The aging analysis of the receivables past due is included in footnotes under Section Four, Note II. “Explanations related to value in Exposures of which: secured by of which: secured of which: credit risk”. accordance secured by secured financial secured by credit secured Current Period with TAS. collateral amount guarantees amount derivatives amount Credit risk mitigation 1 Loans 32.969.556 1.689.397 1.572.183 190.722 146.979 Qualitative disclosure on credit risk mitigation techniques 2 Debt securities 6.654.865 3 Total 39.624.421 1.689.397 1.572.183 190.722 146.979 In valuations made within the scope of credit risk mitigation techniques, the methods used in relation to the valuation and 4 Of which management of collateral are carried out in parallel with the Communiqué on Credit Risk Reduction Techniques. Offsetting is defaulted 1.102.874 not used as credit risk reduction technique. Financial guarantees are assessed on a daily basis at the Bank. Depending on the use of the comprehensive financial Exposures Exposures guarantee method, the risk-mitigating effects of the collateral are taken into account by means of standard volatility Exposures secured by secured adjustments. Valuations of real estate mortgages used in capital adequacy calculations are regularly reviewed. Exposures secured by financial by credit unsecured: collateral, Exposures guarantees Exposures derivatives, value in Exposures of which: secured by of which: secured of which: accordance secured by secured financial secured by credit secured Prior Period with TAS. collateral amount guarantees amount derivatives amount 1 Loans 30.078.742 1.406.836 1.167.285 236.730 188.947 2 Debt securities 5.481.225 3 Total 35.559.967 1.406.836 1.167.285 236.730 188.947 4 Of which defaulted 592.374 Credit risk under standard approach Qualitative disclosures on banks’ use of external credit ratings under the standardised approach for credit risk The related disclosures are included in footnotes under Section Four, Note II “Explanations related to credit risk”. 242 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 243 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION FOUR (Continued) SECTION FOUR (Continued) INFORMATION ON FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) INFORMATION ON FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) X. Explanations related to risk management (continued) X. Explanations related to risk management (continued) Explanations related to credit risk (continued) Explanations related to credit risk (continued) Credit risk under standard approach (continued) Credit risk under standard approach (continued) Credit risk exposure and credit risk mitigation effects Credit risk exposure and credit risk mitigation effects Exposures before credit Exposures post credit Risk weighted amount Exposures before credit Exposures post credit Risk weighted amount conversion factor and conversion factor and and risk weighted amount conversion factor and conversion factor and and risk weighted amount Curent Period credit risk mitigation credit risk mitigation density Prior Period credit risk mitigation credit risk mitigation density Risk Risk On-Balance Off-balance On-Balance Off-balance Risk weighted On-Balance Off-balance On-Balance Off-balance Risk weighted sheet sheet sheet sheet weighted amount sheet sheet sheet sheet weighted amount Risk Groups amount amount amount amount amount density Risk Groups amount amount amount amount amount density 1 Exposures to sovereigns and 1 Exposures to sovereigns their central banks 7.322.605 215.340 7.469.584 43.068 2.271.937 30% and their central banks 6.049.722 186.912 6.237.115 37.382 1.628.438 26% 2 Exposures to regional and 2 Exposures to regional and local governments local governments 3 Exposures to administrative 3 Exposures to administrative bodies and noncommercial bodies and noncommercial entities 1 5.638 1 1.127 1.128 100% entities 11.621 2.324 2.324 100% 4 Exposures to multilateral 4 Exposures to multilateral development banks development banks 5 Exposures to international 5 Exposures to international organizations organizations 6 Exposures to banks and 6 Exposures to banks and securities firms 1.965.833 636.821 1.965.833 35.545 1.304.395 65% securities firms 2.555.018 588.697 2.556.573 30.971 1.666.491 64% 7 Exposures to corporates 28.216.484 26.713.153 28.051.757 3.470.604 30.970.151 98% 7 Exposures to corporates 25.886.247 21.417.472 25.684.976 2.353.560 27.805.076 99% 8 Retail exposures 8 Retail exposures 9 Exposures secured by 9 Exposures secured by residental real estate residental real estate property property 10 Exposures secured by 10 Exposures secured by commercial real estate commercial real estate property 1.554.435 100.434 1.554.435 97.356 825.895 50% property 1.154.961 240.271 1.154.961 233.618 694.289 50% 11 Past due receivables 1.102.874 749.429 748.763 100% 11 Past due receivables 592.374 427.721 424.469 99% 12 Exposures in higher-risk 12 Exposures in higher-risk categories 39.938 587.248 39.938 37.716 116.186 150% categories 107.404 1.114 1.380 123% 13 Exposures in the form 13 Exposures in the form of bonds secured by of bonds secured by mortgages mortgages 14 Short term exposures to 14 Short term exposures to banks, brokerage houses banks, brokerage houses and corporates and corporates 15 Equity investments in 15 Equity investments in the form of collective the form of collective investment undertakings investment undertakings 16 Other exposures 144.322 118.186 144.308 96.781 241.064 100% 16 Other exposures 136.922 194.845 136.156 98.615 234.747 100% 17 Equity Investments 1.158.049 1.158.049 2.007.298 173% 17 Equity Investments 828.289 828.289 1.535.128 185% 18 Total 41.504.541 28.376.820 41.133.334 3.782.197 38.486.817 86% 18 Total 37.203.533 22.747.222 37.025.791 2.757.584 33.992.342 85% 244 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 245 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION FOUR (Continued) SECTION FOUR (Continued) INFORMATION ON FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) INFORMATION ON FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) X. Explanations related to risk management (continued) X. Explanations related to risk management (continued) Explanations related to credit risk (continued) Explanations related to credit risk (continued) Credit risk under standardised approach (continued) Credit risk under standardised approach (continued) Exposures by asset classes and risk weights Exposures by asset classes and risk weights Current Period Prior Period 50% Total Risk 50% Total Risk Secured by Amount Secured by Amount Real Estate (After CCR Real Estate (After CCR Risk Groups/Risk Weight 0% 10% 20% Property 75% 100% 150% 200% 250% and CVA) Risk Groups/Risk Weight 0% 10% 20% Property 75% 100% 150% 200% Others and CVA) 1 Exposures to sovereigns and their central 1 Exposures to sovereigns and their central banks 5.240.714 2.271.938 7.512.652 banks 4.646.059 1.628.438 6.274.497 2 Exposures to regional and local 2 Exposures to regional and local governments governments 3 Exposures to administrative bodies and 3 Exposures to administrative bodies and noncommercial entities 1.128 1.128 noncommercial entities 2.324 2.324 4 Exposures to multilateral development 4 Exposures to multilateral development banks banks 5 Exposures to international organizations 5 Exposures to international organizations 6 Exposures to banks and securities firms 732.551 221.885 1.046.942 2.001.378 6 Exposures to banks and securities firms 1.040.436 177.408 1.369.700 2.587.544 7 Exposures to corporates 576.608 181.851 30.763.902 31.522.361 7 Exposures to corporates 9.690 451.418 27.577.428 28.038.536 8 Retail exposures 8 Retail exposures 9 Exposures secured by property 1.651.791 1.651.791 9 Exposures secured by property 1.388.579 1.388.579 10 Past due receivables 3.212 744.337 1.880 749.429 10 Past due receivables 8.247 417.732 1.742 427.721 11 Exposures in higher-risk categories 294 77.360 77.654 11 Exposures in higher-risk categories 292 822 1.114 12 Exposures in the form of bonds secured by 12 Exposures in the form of bonds secured by mortgages mortgages 13 Short term exposures to banks, brokerage 13 Short term exposures to banks, brokerage houses and corporates houses and corporates 14 Equity investments in the form of 14 Equity investments in the form of collective investment undertakings collective investment undertakings 15 Equity investments 591.883 566.166 1.158.049 15 Equity investments 357.063 471.226 828.289 16 Other exposures 26 241.063 241.089 16 Other exposures 23 234.748 234.771 17 Total 5.240.740 1.309.159 2.059.033 35.661.193 79.240 566.166 44.915.531 17 Total 4.646.082 1.050.126 2.025.944 31.587.433 2.564 471.226 39.783.375 246 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 247 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION FOUR (Continued) SECTION FOUR (Continued) INFORMATION ON FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) INFORMATION ON FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) X. Explanations related to risk management (continued) X. Explanations related to risk management (continued) Disclosures on counterparty credit risk (CCR) Disclosures on counterparty credit risk (CCR) (continued) Qualitative disclosures on CCR Analysis of counterparty credit risk exposure by approach (continued) Counterparty credit risk is managed by monitoring the concentrations at various levels with regard to counterparty credit Alpha risks, the capital requirement imposed by the counterparty credit risk and the limits set by the Board of Directors for used for Exposure counterparty transactions. Moreover, the ratio of the counterparty credit risk exposure to total risk-weighted assets has been computing at default identified as a risk appetite indicator. Potential regulatory post Risk Replacement future exposure at Credit risk weighted Counterparty credit risk resulting from repurchase transactions, securities and commodities lending transactions and Prior Period cost exposure EEPE default mitigation amount derivatives transactions is calculated within the framework of Annex 2 of the Regulation on the Measurement and 1 Standardised Approach (for derivatives) 978.155 422.410 1.400.565 820.236 Assessment of the Capital Adequacy of Banks. Fair Value Valuation Method is applied for derivatives transactions. Risk 2 Internal Model Method (for repo exposure of derivative transactions is equal to the sum of replacement cost and potential credit risk amount. Besides, capital transactions, securities or commodity requirement is also calculated for credit valuation adjustment (CVA) risk in relation to derivatives transactions. For repurchase lending or borrowing transactions, long and securities lending transactions risk amount is calculated considering volatility and credit quality level. settlement transactions and securities Derivatives transactions executed with counterparties are carried out within the scope of “ISDA” and “CSA” agreements. These financing transactions) agreements contain the same collateralization provisions for our Bank and counterparties and daily collateral settlement is 3 Simple Approach for credit risk mitigation performed. (for repo transactions, securities or commodity lending or borrowing Analysis of counterparty credit risk exposure by approach transactions, long settlement transactions and securities financing transactions) Alpha used 4 Comprehensive Approach for credit for computing Exposure at Potential regulatory default post Risk risk mitigation (for repo transactions, Replacement future exposure at Credit risk weighted securities or commodity lending or Current Period cost exposure EEPE default mitigation amount borrowing transactions, long settlement 1 Standardised Approach (for derivatives) 884.241 337.692 1.221.933 728.438 transactions and securities financing 2 Internal Model Method (for repo transactions, transactions) 435.981 280.611 securities or commodity lending or borrowing 5 Value-at-Risk (VaR) for repo transactions, transactions, long settlement transactions and securities or commodity lending or securities financing transactions) borrowing transactions, long settlement 3 Simple Approach for credit risk mitigation (for transactions and securities financing repo transactions, securities or commodity transactions lending or borrowing transactions, long 6 Total 1.100.847 settlement transactions and securities financing transactions) 4 Comprehensive Approach for credit risk mitigation (for repo transactions, securities or commodity lending or borrowing transactions, long settlement transactions and securities financing transactions) 749.807 294.792 5 Value-at-Risk (VaR) for repo transactions, securities or commodity lending or borrowing transactions, long settlement transactions and securities financing transactions 6 Total 1.023.230 248 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 249 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION FOUR (Continued) SECTION FOUR (Continued) INFORMATION ON FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) INFORMATION ON FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) X. Explanations related to risk management (continued) X. Explanations related to risk management (continued) Disclosures on counterparty credit risk (CCR) (continued) Disclosures on counterparty credit risk (CCR) (continued) Analysis of counterparty credit risk exposure by approach (continued) Counterparty credit risk exposures (CCR) by regulatory portfolio and risk weights Credit valuation adjustment (CVA) for capital charge Current Period Risk weight Total credit Exposure at default Risk groups 0% 10% 20% 50% 75% 100% 150% Other exposure(1) post-credit risk Current Period mitigation techniques Risk weighted amount Exposures to sovereigns and their central banks 2.696 2.696 Total portfolios subject to the Advanced CVA capital charge Exposures to regional and local 1 (i) VaR component (including the 3×multiplier) governments 2 (ii) Stressed VaR component (including the 3×multiplier) Exposures to administrative bodies 3 All portfolios subject to the Standardised CVA capital charge 1.221.933 381.732 and noncommercial entities 4.914 4.914 4 Total subject to the CVA capital charge 1.221.933 381.732 Exposures to multilateral development banks Exposure at default Exposures to international post-credit risk organizations Prior Period mitigation techniques Risk weighted amount Exposures to banks and securities Total portfolios subject to the Advanced CVA capital charge firms 546.137 1.023.200 7.550 1.576.887 1 (i) VaR component (including the 3×multiplier) Exposures to corporates 386.470 386.470 2 (ii) Stressed VaR component (including the 3×multiplier) Retail exposures 3 All portfolios subject to the Standardised CVA capital charge 1.400.565 396.479 Exposures secured by property 4 Total subject to the CVA capital charge 1.400.565 396.479 Past due receivables Exposures in higher-risk categories Exposures in the form of bonds secured by mortgages Securitization positions Short term exposures to banks, brokerage houses and corporates Exposures to brokerage houses and corporates Equity investments in the form of collective investment undertakings Equity investments Other exposures 773 773 Other assets Total 546.137 1.023.200 402.403 1.971.740 (1) Total Credit Exposures Amount: The amount which is related to capital adequacy calculation after implementation of counter party credit risk mitigation techniques. 250 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 251 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION FOUR (Continued) SECTION FOUR (Continued) INFORMATION ON FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) INFORMATION ON FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) X. Explanations related to risk management (continued) X. Explanations related to risk management (continued) Disclosures on counterparty credit risk (CCR) (continued) Disclosures on counterparty credit risk (CCR) (continued) Counterparty credit risk exposures (CCR) by regulatory portfolio and risk weights (continued) Collaterals used for CCR Total credit Derivative Financial Instrument Colleterals Other Instrument Colleterals Prior Period 0% 10% 20% 50% 75% 100% 150% Other exposure(1) Collaterals received Collaterals given Collaterals Collaterals Risk weight Current Period Segregated Unsegregated Segregated Unsegregated received given Risk groups Cash domestic currency 491.414 Exposures to sovereigns and their Cash foreign currency 1.454.070 central banks 154 154 Domestic sovereign debt Exposures to regional and local Other sovereign debt governments Government agency debt Exposures to administrative bodies Corporate bonds and noncommercial entities 1.099 1.099 Equity securities Exposures to multilateral development banks Other collateral Exposures to international Total 1.945.484 organizations Derivative Financial Instrument Colleterals Other Instrument Colleterals Exposures to banks and securities firms 290.818 1.006.089 57 1.296.964 Collaterals received Collaterals given Collaterals Collaterals Exposures to corporates 534.856 534.856 Prior Period Segregated Unsegregated Segregated Unsegregated received given Retail exposures Cash domestic currency 163.550 Exposures secured by property Cash foreign currency 773.267 Past due receivables Domestic sovereign debt Exposures in higher-risk categories Other sovereign debt Exposures in the form of bonds Government agency debt secured by mortgages Corporate bonds Securitization positions Equity securities Short term exposures to banks, Other collateral brokerage houses and corporates Total 936.817 Exposures to brokerage houses and corporates Credit derivatives Equity investments in the form of None. (31 December 2018: None) collective investment undertakings Equity investments Other exposures 3.474 3.474 Other assets Total 290.818 1.006.089 539.640 1.836.547 (1) Total Credit Exposures Amount: The amount which is related to capital adequacy calculation after implementation of counter party credit risk mitigation techniques. 252 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 253 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION FOUR (Continued) SECTION FOUR (Continued) INFORMATION ON FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) INFORMATION ON FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) X. Explanations related to risk management (continued) X. Explanations related to risk management (continued) Exposures to central counterparties Explanations on market risk Current Period Exposure at Default (Post CRM RWA Qualitative information to be disclosed to public concerning market risk Exposure to Qualified Central Counterparties (QCCPs) Total 241.784 5.281 Exposures for trades at QCCPs (excluding initial margin and default fund Market risk is the possibility of a risk being incurred by the portfolio or position accepted within the scope of trading portfolio contributions) of which 148.226 2.964 as a result of interest rates, equity prices, commodity prices in financial markets and exchange rate fluctuations. The purpose of market risk management is to manage, within the appropriate parameters, the risks which the Bank might be exposed to (i) OTC Derivatives 127.470 2.549 with a proactive approach and thus maximize the Bank’s risk adjusted return. (ii) Exchange-traded Derivatives 5.324 106 (iii) Securities financing transactions 15.432 309 Interest rate, exchange rate, stock and commodity price risks are the major elements of market risk. In order to control these (iv) Netting sets where cross-product netting has been approved risks in a healthy manner the core principal is to manage transactions carried out in money and capital markets such that they Segregated initial margin 22.880 do not form concentration in terms of instrument, maturity, currency, interest type and other similar parameters, and in a Non-segregated initial margin “well diversified” manner in accordance with their risk levels. Pre-funded default fund contributions 70.678 2.317 Moreover, the creditworthiness of issuers of financial instruments causing market risk is monitored carefully. Unfunded default fund contributions Exposures to nonCentral Counterparties (QCCPs) Total Market Risk is managed by using consistent risk measurements and criteria fluctuation level of interest rates and/or prices Exposures for trades at non-QCCPs (excluding initial margin and and Value at Risk calculations, establishing appropriate procedures for control and monitoring compliance with identified risk default fund contributions); of which limits and risk appetite. Market risk is measured, monitored and reported by the Department of Risk Management. The Bank uses two main approaches in the calculation of market risk BRSA Standard Method and Value at Risk (VaR) approach. (i) OTC Derivatives (ii) Exchange-traded Derivatives The standard method is applied in the calculation of capital adequacy on a monthly basis. VaR calculations are performed on (iii) Securities financing transactions a daily basis and are reported to the senior management. Monte Carlo simulation method is used for VaR calculations. (iv) Netting sets where cross-product netting has been approved The VaR model is based on the assumptions of a 99% confidence interval and a 1-day holding period, and the accuracy of the Segregated initial margin model is assured by back-testing which is based on the comparison of calculated VaR Value against incurred losses. Besides, Non-segregated initial margin stress tests are conducted so as to identify the impacts on VaR which will be highly damaging, although their occurrence is a Pre-funded default fund contributions low possibility. Unfunded default fund contributions In addition to the activities of the Risk Management Department, the Treasury Control Unit also reports daily positions and The Bank has no exposures to central counterparties as of 31.12.2018. limit use status to the senior management Securitization exposures: Market Risk-standard approach The Parent Bank has no securitization transactions. (31 December 2018: None) Risk Weighted Amount (RWA) Current Period Prior Period Outright products 1 Interest rate risk (general and specific) 245.825 210.413 2 Equity risk (general and specific) 3 Foreign exchange risk 331.163 129.475 4 Commodity risk Options 5 Simplified approach 6 Delta-plus method 162 7 Scenario approach 8 Securitisation 9 Total 577.150 339.888 254 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 255 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION FOUR (Continued) SECTION FIVE INFORMATION ON FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) EXPLANATIONS AND DISCLOSURES ON UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS X. Explanations related to risk management (continued) I. Explanations and disclosures related to the assets Explanations on operational risk 1.a Information on cash and balances with the Central Bank of Turkey: Information to be disclosed to the public regarding operational risk Current Period Prior Period TL FC TL FC Operational Risk Exposure is measured in the Bank once a year by using the Basic Indicator Method based on the “Regulation Cash in TL/Foreign Currency 25 23 on the Measurement and Assessment of the Capital Adequacy of Banks”. Balances with the Central Bank of Turkey 484 803.528 6.326 736.875 Total/Positive Other 31/12/2016 31/12/2017 31/12/2018 BG year number Ratio(%) Total Total 509 803.528 6.349 736.875 Gross Income 758.586 1.028.394 1.512.177 1.099.719 15 164.958 Value at Operational Risk 1.b. Information related to the account of the Central Bank of Turkey: (Total*12,5) 2.061.973 Current Period(1) Prior Period Total/Positive TL FC TL FC 31/12/2015 31/12/2016 31/12/2017 BG year number Ratio(%) Total Unrestricted demand deposits 484 7.461 6.326 6.602 Gross Income 675.871 758.586 1.028.394 820.950 15 123.143 Unrestricted time deposits Value at Operational Risk Restricted time deposits (Total*12,5) 1.539.288 Other (2) 796.067 730.273 Total 484 803.528 6.326 736.875 Disclosures on interest rate risk resulting from banking book (1) Provision for expected credit loss amounting to TL 429 is allocated in “Balances with the Central Bank of Turkey” . (31 December2018 : TL 243) It is monthly calculated and reported within the scope of the Standard Shock Measurement and Evaluation Method of the (2) Deposits at Central Bank of Turkey held as reserve requirement. Interest Rate Risk in Banking Accounts Duration. As per the Communiqué numbered 2005/1 “Reserve Deposits” of the CBRT, banks keep reserve deposits at the CBRT for their The economic valuation differences of the Bank arising from fluctuations on interest rates, in different currencies that TL and FC liabilities mentioned in the communiqué. Reserves are calculated and set aside every two weeks on Fridays for 14 is calculated in accordance with the communiqué are presented in the table below. days periods. Interest rate for the required reserves in Turkish Lira is paid since 21 September 2018. Current Period On 20 August, 2019 Central Bank of the Republic of Turkey changed the required reserves and TL reserve requirement ratio, Revenue/Shareholders’ excluding loans granted to banks with loans indexed to foreign banks, TL denominated cash on standard loans and close Applied Shock Equity Loss/ monitoring loans have been associated with annual growth rates of the total. Accordingly, TL required reserve ratios have Currency (+/x basis point) Revenue/Loss Shareholders’ Equity been reduced for the banks whose loan growth is between 10 and 20 percent, while the reserve requirement ratios for other banks have not been changed. 1 TL +500/(400) basis point (157.080)/144.247 (2,08%)/1,91% 2 Euro +200/(200) basis point 57.159/(4.926) 0,76%/(0,07%) As per the “Communiqué on Amendments to be Made on Communiqué on Required Reserves” of Central Bank of Turkey, 3 US Dollar +200/(200) basis point (258.991)/276.863 (3,42%)/3,66% numbered 2011/11 and 2011/13, required reserves for Turkish Lira and Foreign currency liabilities are set at Central Bank of Total (for Negative Shocks) 416.184 5,50% Turkey based on rates mentioned below. Reserve rates prevailing at 30 September 2019 are presented in table below: Total (for Positive Shocks) (358.912) (4,74%) Reserve Rates for Turkish Lira Liabilities (%) Original Maturity Reserve Ratio Prior Period Until 1 year maturity (1 year include) 7 Revenue/Shareholders’ Applied Shock Equity Loss/ 1-3 year maturity (3 year include) 3,5 Currency (+/x basis point) Revenue/Loss Shareholders’ Equity More than 3 year maturity 1 1 TL +500/(400) basis point (127.184)/114.525 (2,10%)/1,89% Reserve Ratio 2 Euro +200/(200) basis point 99.169/(35.554) 1,64%/(0,59%) Original Maturity If the fund borrowed Before 28.08.2015 3 US Dollar +200/(200) basis point 90.703/(123.367) 1,65%/(2,04%) Until 1 year maturity (1 year included) 21 Total (for Negative Shocks) (44.397) (0,73%) 1-2 year maturity (2 year included) 16 Total (for Positive Shocks) 71.688 1,18% 2-3 year maturity (3 year included) 11 3-5 year maturity (5 year included) 7 More than 5 year maturity 5 256 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 257 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION FIVE (Continued) SECTION FIVE (Continued) EXPLANATIONS AND DISCLOSURES ON UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) EXPLANATIONS AND DISCLOSURES ON UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) I. Explanations and disclosures related to the assets (continued) I. Explanations and disclosures related to the assets (continued) 2. Information on financial assets at fair value through profit and loss: 3. Information on banks and foreign banks account 2.a Information on financial assets designated at fair value through profit and loss given as collateral or blockage: 3.a Information on banks: As of the reporting date, the Bank has no financial assets designated at fair value through profit and loss given as collateral or Current Period (1) Prior Period blockage (31 December 2018: None). TL FC TL FC Banks 2.b Financial assets designated at fair value through profit and loss subject to repurchase agreements: Domestic 288 18.355 20.650 567.465 As of the reporting date, the Bank has no financial assets designated at fair value through profit and loss subject to Foreign 59.489 35.639 repurchase agreements (31 December 2018: None). Branches and head office abroad Total 288 77.844 20.650 603.104 2.c Positive differences table related to derivative financial assets : (1) Provision for expected credit loss amounting to TL 34 is allocated in “Banks” (31 Decemeber 2018 : TL 6). Current Period Prior Period Held for Trading Financial Derivative Instruments (1) TL FC TL FC 3.b Information on foreign banks Forward Transactions 44.124 163 151.345 1.008 Unrestricted Amount Restricted Amount Swap Transactions 609.108 231.423 604.804 161.353 Current Period Prior Period Current Period Prior Period Futures Transactions European Union Countries 1.779 1.597 Options 9.596 59.646 USA and Canada 50.431 32.303 Other OECD Countries (1) 7.279 1.739 Total 653.232 241.182 756.149 222.007 Off-shore banking regions (1) Derivative Financial Assets for Hedging Purposes amounting to TL 67.884 are presented in the “Derivative Financial Assets” account in accordance with the financial Other statement format with effective date of 1 January 2019 (31 December 2018 : None). Total 59.489 35.639 As part of its economic hedging strategy, the Bank has implemented TL cross currency interest rate swap transactions in (1) OECD countries other than European Union countries, USA and Canada. which the Bank’s default risk is the reference. These swap agreements are subject to a direct closing condition for both the Bank and the counterparty, in the event of a credit default event (such as a non-payment) related to the Bank, to cancel the 4. Information on financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income amounts accrued in the contract and all future payments. The market rediscount value of these swaps with a nominal value of 4.a.1 Information on financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income subject to repurchase USD 245 million as of 31 December 2019 is TL 514.980 and the average rates are between 2020 and 2023. agreements: 2.d Loans at Fair Value Through Profit or Loss: Current Period Prior Period Net Book Value Current Period Prior Period TL FC TL FC Loans at Fair Value Through Profit or Loss 263.097 290.660 Government bonds 287.144 542.673 41.531 Treasury bills As explained in Section 5 Note I.16, it includes the loan extended to the special purpose company . The related loan is Other government debt securities monitored as loans whose fair value through profit or loss within the scope of TFRS 9. As of 31 December 2019, the study Bank bonds and bank guaranteed bonds results of an independent valuation company are based on in determining the fair value. Asset backed securities Other Total 287.144 542.673 41.531 4.a.2 Information on financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income given as collateral or blockage: As of 31 December 2019, all financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income given as collateral comprise of financial assets issued by the T.R. Undersecreteriat of Treasury. The carrying value of those assets is TL 1.827.696. 258 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 259 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION FIVE (Continued) SECTION FIVE (Continued) EXPLANATIONS AND DISCLOSURES ON UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) EXPLANATIONS AND DISCLOSURES ON UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) I. Explanations and disclosures related to the assets (continued) I. Explanations and disclosures related to the assets (continued) 4. Information on financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income (continued) 5. Explanation on loans (continued) 4.a.2 Information on financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income given as collateral or 5.b Information on the first and second group loans and other receivables including restructured or rescheduled blockage: (continued) loans: Current Period Prior Period 5.b.1 Loans measured at Fair Value through Profit/Loss TL FC TL FC Current Period Net Book Value Share certificates Loans Measured at Fair Value through Profit/Loss (*) 263.097 Bond, treasury bill and similar investment securities 749.163 1.078.533 634.489 819.159 (*) Include the loan granted to the special purpose entity as detailed in Section Five Note 16. This loan is accounted under loans measured at fair value through profit/loss as per TFRS 9. Other Total 749.163 1.078.533 634.489 819.159 5.b.2 Information on Standard and Close Monitoring loans and restructured Close Monitoring loans 4.b Major types of financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income: Loans Under Close Monitoring Amendments on Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income comprised of government bonds 48,06%, Eurobonds Current Period (1) Conditions of Contract 46,16% and shares and other securities 5,78%. (31 December 2018 : Government bonds 59,26%, Eurobonds 34,38%,shares Standard Loans Not Subject Loans with Revised and other securities 6,36%) Cash Loans Loans to Restructuring Contract Terms Refinance 4.c Information on financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income: Non-specialized loans 26.862.157 803.006 1.696.477 830.780 Working Capital loans 3.100.440 69.185 180.038 830.780 Current Period Prior Period Export loans 663.864 78.028 Debt securities 4.107.611 3.503.459 Import loans Quoted on a stock exchange 2.155.330 2.252.288 Loans given to financial sector 4.521.463 Unquoted 1.952.281 1.251.171 Consumer loans 740 Share certificates 104.490 68.013 Credit cards Quoted on a stock exchange 30.556 11.244 Other 18.575.650 733.821 1.438.411 Unquoted 73.934 56.769 Specialized loans Impairment provision(-) 47.938 182.695 Other receivables Total 4.164.163 3.388.777 Total 26.862.157 803.006 1.696.477 830.780 (1) According to Bank account plan purchasing Loans, Fleet Leasing Credits, Refinancing Loans and Portfolio Transfer Credits amounting to TL 4.660.356 shown under The net book value of unquoted financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income share certificates is TL “Other”, due to the nature of “Investment” shown under the category “other” in the above footnote. 59.007 (31 December 2018 : TL 51.875). 5. Explanation on loans 5.a Information on all types of loans and advances given to shareholders and employees of the Bank: Current Period Prior Period Cash Loans Non-Cash Loans Cash Loans Non-Cash Loans Direct loans granted to shareholders 251.238 102.776 Corporate shareholders 251.238 102.776 Real person shareholders Indirect loans granted to shareholders Loans granted to employees 740 662 Total 251.978 103.438 260 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 261 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION FIVE (Continued) SECTION FIVE (Continued) EXPLANATIONS AND DISCLOSURES ON UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) EXPLANATIONS AND DISCLOSURES ON UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) I. Explanations and disclosures related to the assets (continued) I. Explanations and disclosures related to the assets (continued) 5. Explanation on loans (continued) 5. Explanation on loans (continued) 5.b Information on the first and second group loans and other receivables including restructured or rescheduled 5.c Loans according to their maturity structure: loans: (continued) Loans 5.b.2 Information on Standard Qualified and Close Monitoring loans and restructured Close Monitoring loans Under Close Monitoring (continued): Current Period (*) Standard Loans Nonrestructured Restructured Short-term loans 3.688.889 69.185 78.028 Loans Under Close Monitoring Non-specialized loans 3.688.889 69.185 78.028 Amendments on Prior Period (1) Conditions of Contract Specialized loans Loans with Other receivables Loans Not Subject Revised Contract Medium and Long-term loans 23.173.268 733.821 2.449.229 Cash Loans Standard Loans to Restructuring Terms Refinance Non-specialized loans 23.173.268 733.821 2.449.229 Non-specialized loans 24.556.445 1.716.827 219.817 716.255 Specialized loans Working Capital loans 2.761.098 326.005 716.255 Other receivables Export loans 443.697 66.900 (*) It does not include loans measured at fair value through profit/loss. Import loans Loans Loans given to financial sector 2.986.797 Under Close Monitoring Consumer loans 662 Prior Period (*) Standard Loans Nonrestructured Restructured Credit cards Short-term loans 1.207.047 324.260 66.900 Other 18.364.191 1.390.822 152.917 Non-specialized loans 1.207.047 324.260 66.900 Specialized loans Specialized loans Other receivables Other receivables Total 24.556.445 1.716.827 219.817 716.255 Medium and Long-term loans 23.349.398 1.683.227 869.172 (1) According to Bank account plan purchasing Loans, Fleet Leasing Credits, Refinancing Loans and Portfolio Transfer Credits amounting to TL 5.168.405 shown under Non-specialized loans 23.349.398 1.392.567 869.172 “Working Capital Loans”, due to the nature of “Investment” shown under the category “Other” in the above footnote. Specialized loans Current Period Prior period Other receivables Loans under Close Loans under Close (*) It does not include loans measured at fair value through profit/loss. Standard Loans Monitoring Standard Loans Monitoring 12 Months Expected Credit Loss 172.668 134.209 Significant Increase in Credit Risk 350.807 211.140 262 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 263 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION FIVE (Continued) SECTION FIVE (Continued) EXPLANATIONS AND DISCLOSURES ON UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) EXPLANATIONS AND DISCLOSURES ON UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) I. Explanations and disclosures related to the assets (continued) I. Explanations and disclosures related to the assets (continued) 5. Explanation on loans (continued) 5. Explanation on loans (continued) 5.d Information on consumer loans, individual credit cards, personnel loans and credit cards given to personnel: 5.d Information on consumer loans, individual credit cards, personnel loans and credit cards given to personnel (continued): Current Period Short Term Medium and Long Term Total Consumer Loans-TL Prior Period Short Term Medium and Long Term Total Real Estate Loans Consumer Loans-TL Vehicle Loans Real Estate Loans General Purpose Loans Vehicle Loans Other General Purpose Loans Consumer Loans -Indexed to FC Other Real Estate Loans Consumer Loans -Indexed to FC Vehicle Loans Real Estate Loans General Purpose Loans Vehicle Loans Other General Purpose Loans Consumer Loans-FC Other Real Estate Loans Consumer Loans-FC Vehicle Loans Real Estate Loans General Purpose Loans Vehicle Loans Other General Purpose Loans Individual Credit Cards-TL Other With Installments Individual Credit Cards-TL With Installments Without Installments Without Installments Individual Credit Cards-FC Individual Credit Cards-FC With Installments With Installments Without Installments Without Installments Personnel Loans-TL 76 664 740 Personnel Loans-TL 65 597 662 Real Estate Loans Real Estate Loans Vehicle Loans Vehicle Loans General Purpose Loans 76 664 740 General Purpose Loans 65 597 662 Other Other Personnel LoansIndexed to FC Personnel LoansIndexed to FC Real Estate Loans Real Estate Loans Vehicle Loans Vehicle Loans General Purpose Loans General Purpose Loans Other Other Personnel Loans-FC Personnel Loans-FC Real Estate Loans Real Estate Loans Vehicle Loans Vehicle Loans General Purpose Loans General Purpose Loans Other Other Personnel Credit Cards-TL Personnel Credit Cards-TL With Instalments With Installments Without Instalments Without Installments Personnel Credit Cards-FC Personnel Credit Cards-FC With Instalments With Installments Without Instalments Without Installments Overdraft Accounts-TL (Real Persons) Overdraft Accounts-TL (Real Persons) Overdraft Accounts-FC (Real Persons) Overdraft Accounts-FC (Real Persons) Total 76 664 740 Total 65 597 662 264 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 265 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION FIVE (Continued) SECTION FIVE (Continued) EXPLANATIONS AND DISCLOSURES ON UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) EXPLANATIONS AND DISCLOSURES ON UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) I. Explanations and disclosures related to the assets (continued) I. Explanations and disclosures related to the assets (continued) 5. Explanation on loans (continued) 5. Explanation on loans (continued) 5.e Information on commercial loans with instalments and corporate credit cards: 5.j Information on non-performing loans (net) (continued) The Bank has not granted any commercial loans with instalments and corporate credit cards as of the reporting date (31 5.j.2 Movement of non-performing loans: December 2018: None). III. Group IV. Group V. Group 5.f Loans according to borrowers: Loans With Limited Loans With Doubtful Current Period Collectability Collectability Uncollectible Loans Current Period Prior Period Prior period end balance 22.719 522.165 47.490 Public 942.805 584.752 Additions (+) 459.570 46.845 9.397 Private 29.249.615 26.915.252 Transfers from other categories of non-performing loans (+) 22.779 8.215 Total 30.192.420 27.500.004 Transfers to other categories of non-performing loans (-) 22.779 8.215 (*) Includes fair value through profit or loss loans. Collections (-) 1.640 68.616 14.261 Write-offs (-) 5.g Domestic and foreign loans: Sold (-) Current Period Prior Period Corporate and Commercial Loans Domestic loans 30.080.280 27.400.306 Retail Loans Foreign loans 112.140 99.698 Credit Cards Total 30.192.420 27.500.004 Other Exchange rate differences of non-performing loans 35 79.087 83 (*) Includes fair value through profit or loss loans. Current period end balance 457.905 594.045 50.924 5.h Loans granted to subsidiaries and associates: Provision (-) 184.323 120.078 49.044 Net Balances on Balance Sheet 273.582 473.967 1.880 Current Period Prior Period Direct loans granted to subsidiaries and associates 545.560 437.232 III. Group IV. Group V. Group Indirect loans granted to subsidiaries and associates Loans With Limited Loans With Doubtful Total 545.560 437.232 Prior Period Collectability Collectability Uncollectible Loans Prior period end balance 985 4.894 43.643 5.i Specific provisions provided against loans or default (Stage 3) provisions: Additions (+) 490.340 146.741 Transfers from other categories of non-performing loans (+) 469.603 4.894 Current Period Prior Period Loans and receivables with limited collectability 184.323 12.730 Transfers to other categories of non-performing loans (-) 469.603 4.894 Loans and receivables with doubtful collectability 120.078 104.433 Collections (-) 319 7.637 1.058 Uncollectible loans and receivables 49.044 47.490 Write-offs (-) (1) 146.730 Total 353.445 164.653 Sold (-) Corporate and Commercial Loans 5.j Information on non-performing loans (net): Retail Loans Credit Cards 5.j.1 Information on loans and other receivables restructured or rescheduled from non-performing loans: Other III. Group IV. Group V. Group Exchange rate differences of non-performing loans 1.316 60.199 Loans With Limited Loans With Doubtful Uncollectible Current period end balance 22.719 522.165 47.490 Collectability Collectability Loans Provision (-) 12.730 104.433 47.490 Current Period Net Balances on Balance Sheet 9.989 417.732 Gross amounts before provisions 592.614 37.567 (1) The shares that OTAŞ owns and which constitute 55% of Türk Telekom’s issued capital are acquired by a company that is established or will be established for private Restructured loans 592.614 37.567 purposes by creditors within the scope of restructuring of loans granted to Ojer Telekomünikasyon A.Ş. (OTAŞ), the main shareholder of Türk Telekomünikasyon A.Ş. (Türk Prior Period Telekom). The portion of OTAŞ current exposure exceeding Türk Telekom’s share value has written off. This amount which is written according to the Tank ownership rate USD 28 million (TL 146.730 thousands). Gross amounts before provisions 1.936 39.951 Restructured loans 1.936 39.951 266 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 267 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION FIVE (Continued) SECTION FIVE (Continued) EXPLANATIONS AND DISCLOSURES ON UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) EXPLANATIONS AND DISCLOSURES ON UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) I. Explanations and disclosures related to the assets (continued) I. Explanations and disclosures related to the assets (continued) 5. Explanation on loans (continued) 5. Explanation on loans (continued) 5.j Information on non-performing loans (net) (continued): 5.j Information on non-performing loans (net) (continued): 5.j.3 Information on foreign currency non-performing loans and other receivables: 5.j.5 Information on interest accruals, rediscount, and valuation differences calculated for non-performing loans and their provisions: III. Group IV. Group V. Group Loans With Limited Loans With Doubtful Uncollectible III.Group IV.Group V.Group Collectability Collectability Loans Loans with Limited Loans with Doubtful Uncollectible Current Period Collectability Collectability Loans Period End Balance 10.306 592.614 34.215 Current Period (Net) 7 62.652 75 Provision (-) 3.223 118.878 32.335 Interest Accruals and Rediscount with Valuation Net Balance on Balance Sheet 7.083 473.736 1.880 Differences 7.728 90.769 83 Provision amount (-) 7.721 28.117 8 Current Period Prior Period (Net) 1.089 48.159 Period End Balance 2.098 522.165 32.126 Provision (-) 356 104.433 32.126 Interest Accruals and Rediscount with Valuation Net Balance on Balance Sheet 1.742 417.732 Differences 1.316 60.199 Provision amount (-) 227 12.040 5.j.4 Information regarding gross and net amounts of non-performing loans with respect to user groups: 5.k Main principles of liquidating non-performing loans and receivables: III. Group IV. Group V. Group Loans With Limited Loans With Doubtful In case of existence of the collateral elements stated in Article 13 of the Regulation on Identification of and Provision against Collectability Collectability Uncollectible Loans Non-Performing Loans and Other Receivables to be set aside for these, these elements are liquidated as soon as possible as a Current Period (Net) result of both administrative and legal initiatives and liquidation of the receivables is ensured. Loans to Real Persons and Legal Entities (Gross) 457.905 594.045 50.924 Provision Amount (-) 184.323 120.078 49.044 In the absence of collateral, the debtor is provided with an insolvency certificate, but in various periods, intense intelligence is Loans to Real Persons and Legal Entities (Net) 273.582 473.967 1.880 made and the legal asset is applied to determine the acquired assets. Banks (Gross) Legal procedures followed before and after; on the financial information of the company when the creditor deemed able to Provision Amount (-) live in the investigation that will be made by the Bank and if it contributed to the economy in relation to firms that dominate Banks (Net) considers that contributed to the production, efforts are made to the liquidation of receivables agreement. Other Loans and Receivables (Gross) Provision Amount (-) 5.l Explanations about the write-off policies from the assets: Other Loans and Receivables (Net) If there is no collateral against loans or uncollectible, and receivables amount of tax payable for legal proceedings to be III. Group IV. Group V. Group held, duties, fees and costs compared to smaller loans written off receivables concerned with the demand and the General Loans and Other Loans and Other Directorate of the approval of the Monitoring Department. Receivables With Limited Receivables With Uncollectible Loans and Collectability Doubtful Collectability Other Receivables However, if the part can not be collected to take after performing all kinds of legal proceedings if there is a guarantee Prior Period (Net) in return will go pledge open the document and the way deletion of assets in the remaining amount by receiving debt Loans to Real Persons and Legal Entities (Gross) 22.719 522.165 47.490 forgiveness is followed. Provision Amount (-) 12.730 104.433 47.490 Loans to Real Persons and Legal Entities (Net) 9.989 417.732 6. Information on financial assets measured at amortized cost Banks (Gross) Provision Amount (-) 6.a The information was subjected to repurchase agreement and given as collateral/blocked amount of investments: Banks (Net) Current Period Prior Period Other Loans and Receivables (Gross) TL FC TL FC Provision Amount (-) Collateralised/Blocked Investments 737.176 26.554 39.757 46.078 Other Loans and Receivables (Net) Subject to Repurchase Agreements 330.755 100.588 248.394 Total 1.067.931 127.142 39.757 294.472 268 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 269 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION FIVE (Continued) SECTION FIVE (Continued) EXPLANATIONS AND DISCLOSURES ON UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) EXPLANATIONS AND DISCLOSURES ON UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) I. Explanations and disclosures related to the assets (continued) I. Explanations and disclosures related to the assets (continued) 6. Information on financial assets measured at amortized cost (continued) 7. Information on associates (net) 6.b Information on government debt measured at amortized cost: 7.a Information on associates: Current Period Prior Period Bank’s share Government Bonds 2.585.160 2.154.941 percentage-If Bank’s risk Treasury Bills Address different voting group share Title (City/Country) percentage (%) percentage (%) Other Government Debt Securities 1 İş Faktoring A.Ş. (İş Factoring) Istanbul/Turkey 21,75 100,00 Total 2.585.160 2.154.941 2 İş Finansal Kiralama A.Ş. (İş Finansal) Istanbul/Turkey 29,46 60,92 6.c Information on financial investments measured at amortized cost: 3 İş Girişim Sermayesi Yatırım Ortaklığı A.Ş. (İş Girişim) Istanbul/Turkey 16,67 57,67 4 Terme Metal Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş. (Terme) Istanbul/Turkey 17,83 18,76 Current Period Prior Period 5 Ege Tarım Ürünleri Lisanslı Depoculuk A.Ş. (Ege Tarım) Izmir/Turkey 10,05 20,10 Debt Securities Quoted on a Stock Exchange 2.285.894 1.735.522 Income Not Quoted 299.266 419.419 from Impairment provision (-) Marketable Current Prior Total 2.585.160 2.154.941 Total Total Fixed Interest Securities Period Period Assets Equity Assets Income Portfolio Profit/Loss Profit/Loss Fair Value 6.d Movement of financial assets at amortized costs within the year : 1 İş Faktoring 3.265.258 300.390 1.328 463.111 (23.452) 147.016 78.535 2 İş Finansal 9.088.358 1.273.725 12.417 943.836 84.106 197.536 785.806 Current Period Prior Period 3 İş Girişim 265.801 261.774 1.715 9.276 1.126 1.736 3.211 48.649 Balance at Beginning of the Period 2.154.941 1.532.047 4 Terme (1) 22.515 5.230 1.554 (35) (30) Foreign Currency Differences on Monetary Assets 58.982 51.793 5 Ege Tarım 15.242 14.161 8.130 2.459 1.730 Purchases During The Period 433.812 227.528 (1) Issued as of 30.09.2019. The previous period’s profit/loss amount is given as of 30.09.2018. Disposals Through Sales And Redemptions 195.251 Impairment Provision (-) 7.b Movements of associates subject to unconsolidation: Interest Income Accruals 132.676 343.573 Current Period Prior Period Balance at End of Period 2.585.160 2.154.941 Balance at the Beginning of the Period 1.017.509 308.497 Movements During the Period (103.463) 709.012 Expected credit loss amounting to TL 3.360 is allocated in “Financial asset measured at amortized cost” (31 Decemeber 2018 : Purchases 5.426 TL 1.628) Bonus Shares Obtained Current Year Share of Profit Sales Revaluation Increase/decrease (103.463) 703.586 Provision for Impairment Balance at the End of the Period 914.046 1.017.509 Capital Commitments Share Percentage at the End of the Period (%) Information on associates sold in the current period In the current period the Bank has not disposed any associates. Information on associates purchased in the current period In current period the Bank has not purchased any associates. 270 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 271 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION FIVE (Continued) SECTION FIVE (Continued) EXPLANATIONS AND DISCLOSURES ON UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) EXPLANATIONS AND DISCLOSURES ON UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) I. Explanations and disclosures related to the assets (continued) I. Explanations and disclosures related to the assets (continued) 7. Information on associates (net) (continued) 8. Information on subsidiaries (net) (continued) 7.c Sectoral information of associates subject to unconsolidation and the related carrying amounts in the legal books: 8.a Information related to equity component of subsidiaries (continued) Current Period Prior Period Prior Period (1) Banks YF TSKB GYO Insurance Companies CORE CAPITAL Factoring Companies 78.535 46.010 Paid-in Capital 63.504 300.000 Leasing Companies 785.806 945.385 Share Premium 593 Financial Service Companies Legal Reserves 2.833 8.777 Other Financial Associates 48.649 25.058 Other Comprehensive Income according to TAS 17.261 Current and Prior Years’ Profit/Loss 18.249 (44.614) 7.d Information on associates subject to consolidation quoted on stock market: Leasehold Improvements (-) 360 Current Period Prior Period Intangible Assets (-) 714 28 Associates quoted on domestic stock exchanges 834.455 970.443 Total Core Capital 100.773 264.728 Associates quoted on foreign stock exchanges Supplementary Capital Capital 8. Information on subsidiaries (net) Net Available Capital 100.773 264.728 (1) The information is obtained from financial statements subject to consolidation as of 31 December 2018. 8.a Information related to equity component of subsidiaries: Paid in capital has been indicated as Turkish Lira in articles of incorporation and registered in trade registry. Effect of Current Period (1) inflation adjustments on paid in capital is the difference caused by the inflation adjustment on shareholders’ equity YF TSKB GYO items. Extraordinary reserves are the status reserves which have been transferred with the General Assembly decision CORE CAPITAL after distributable profit have been transferred to legal reserves. Legal reserves are the status reserves which have been Paid-in Capital 63.500 300.000 transferred from distributable profit in accordance with the Article 519 of the Turkish Commercial Code numbered 6102.The Share Premium 593 Bank’s internal capital adequacy assessment process is made annually on a consolidated basis. Consolidated associates and Legal Reserves 3.681 8.683 subsidiaries are included in the operation. Other Comprehensive Income according to TAS 19.994 8.b As per Communiqué on Preparation of Consolidated Financial Statements of Banks and Turkish Accounting Current and Prior Years’ Profit/Loss 30.802 1.568 Standards unconsolidated subsidiaries and reason of consolidating and needed capital if they are subject to capital Leasehold Improvements (-) 404 requirement: Intangible Assets (-) 1.013 18 Total Core Capital 116.560 310.826 TSKB Gayrimenkul Değerleme A.Ş. and TSKB Sürdürülebilirlik Danışmanlığı A.Ş.are valued at cost and are not consolidated Supplementary Capital since it is not a financial subsidiaries. Unconsolidated subsidiary of the Bank are not subject to minimum capital requirement. Capital 8.c Information on subsidiaries: Net Available Capital 116.560 310.826 Bank’s share (1) The information is obtained from financial statements subject to consolidation as of 31 December 2019. percentage-If Bank’s risk group Address different voting share percentage Title (City/Country) percentage (%) (%) 1 TSKB Gayrimenkul Değerleme A.Ş. (TSKB GMD) Istanbul/Turkey 99,99 99,99 2 Yatırım Finansman Menkul Değerler A.Ş. (YF) Istanbul/Turkey 95,78 98,51 3 TSKB Gayrimenkul Yatırım Ortaklığı A.Ş. (TSKB GYO) Istanbul/Turkey 88,67 89,49 4 TSKB Sürdürülebirlik Danışmanlığı A.Ş. (TSKB SD) Istanbul/Turkey 80,17 99,85 272 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 273 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION FIVE (Continued) SECTION FIVE (Continued) EXPLANATIONS AND DISCLOSURES ON UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) EXPLANATIONS AND DISCLOSURES ON UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) I. Explanations and disclosures related to the assets (continued) I. Explanations and disclosures related to the assets (continued) 8. Information on subsidiaries (net) (continued) 8. Information on subsidiaries (net) (continued) 8.c Information on subsidiaries (continued): 8.d Movement schedule for subsidiaries (continued): Income Current Prior Subsidiaries disposed in the current period Total from Period Period Total Shareholders’ Fixed Interest Marketable Profit/ Profit/ Fair In the current period, the Bank has not disposed any subsidiaries. Assets Equity Assets Income Securities Loss Loss Value Subsidiaries purchased in the current period 1 TSKB GMD (2) 22.390 18.857 1.134 2.074 2.729 2.283 2 YF (1) 786.964 117.977 9.782 56.343 1.324 16.575 11.619 101.342 In current period the Bank has not purchased any subsidiaries. 3 TSKB GYO (1) 575.937 310.844 296 1.715 46.186 (61.455) 346.953 4 TSKB SD 3.123 2.928 20 572 92 (1.407) 3.800 Regarding the previous period subsidiary movements; (1) The financial data of the consolidated subsidiaries are prepared in accordance with BRSA regulations. In the Board of Directors meeting of the Bank held on 27 August 2018, was decided 100% capital increase over the nominal (2) Issued as of 30.09.2019. The previous period’s profit/loss amount is given as of 30.09.2018. value because of the fact that the financing of borrowing debts by increasing the issued capital of the company will contribute positively to the activities and development of the Company and the Bank participated in the capital increase of Tl 8.d Movement schedule for subsidiaries subject to consolidation: 150 mio in November 2018. Current Period Prior Period In addition, in the Board of Directors meeting held on 30 November 2018, the Bank decided to purchase TSKB GYO A.Ş’s Balance at the beginning of the period 301.178 134.976 shares traded in the stock market until a nominal share of TL 10 million within the next one year and the shares received Movements in the period 147.117 166.202 under this program are accounted “Financial Assets at Fair Value Through Profit and Loss”. After this participation, the share of Purchases 164.494 the Bank increased from 70,84% to 88,67%. Bonus shares obtained Current year share of profit The Bank pledged capital increase of TL 2,8 million for TSKB Sürdürülebilirlik Danışmanlığı A.Ş.’s cash capital increase of TL 3,5 million. The Bank participated by paying TL 2,4 million on 19 December 2018 and TL 0,4 million on 21 November 2019 on this Sales commitment. Revaluation increase/decrease 147.117 2.900 Provision for impairment (-) (1.192) 8.e Sectoral information on subsidiaries subject to consolidation and the related carrying amounts in the legal books: Balance at the end of the period 448.295 301.178 Current Period Prior Period Capital commitments Subsidiaries Share percentage at the end of the period (%) Banks Insurance Companies Factoring Companies Leasing Companies Financial Service Companies Other Financial Subsidiaries 448.295 301.178 8.f Subsidiaries subject to consolidation quoted on stock market: Current Period Prior Period Subsidiaries quoted on domestic stock exchanges 346.953 211.144 Subsidiaries quoted on foreign stock exchanges 9. Information on entities under common control The Bank has no entities under common control as of the reporting date (31 December 2018: None). 274 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 275 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION FIVE (Continued) SECTION FIVE (Continued) EXPLANATIONS AND DISCLOSURES ON UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) EXPLANATIONS AND DISCLOSURES ON UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) I. Explanations and disclosures related to the assets (continued) I. Explanations and disclosures related to the assets (continued) 10. Information on finance lease receivables (net) 11. Explanation on derivative financial assets held for hedging purposes (continued) 10.a Maturities of investments on finance leases: 11.a Positive differences on derivative financial instruments held for hedging purposes (continued) Current Period Prior Period 11.a.1 Information on fair value hedge accounting Gross Net Gross Net Current Period Less than 1 year 36.531 34.243 31.462 27.962 Income Statement Between 14 years 93.678 85.056 88.470 78.539 Effect (Profit/ More than 4 years 10.759 9.575 31.170 27.428 Fair Value Fair Value of Hedging Loss Through Total 140.968 128.874 151.102 133.929 Type of Change of Instrument(1) Derivative Financial Hedging Item Hedged Item Risk Hedged Item(1) Assets Liabilities Instruments) “Expected credit loss amounting to TL 22.564 (31 December 2018: TL 1.411) is allocated in “Lease Receivables ”. Interest Rate Swap Fixed Rate Interest Transactions Issued Eurobond Rate Risk 10.b The information on net investments in finance leases: and Greenbond 16.960 69.500 (13.577) 72.883 Current Period Prior Period Interest Rate Swap Fixed Rate Interest Gross investments in finance leases 140.968 151.102 Transactions Loans Used Rate Risk (5.481) 4.597 (884) Unearned revenue from finance leases (-) 12.094 17.173 (1) The fair value of hedged item and hedging instrument are presented as net market value excluding credit risk and accumulated interest. Cancelled finance leases (-) Prior Period Net investments in finance leases 128.874 133.929 Income Statement Effect (Profit/ 10.c Explanation with respect to finance lease agreements, the criteria used in determination of contingent rents, Fair Value of Hedging Fair Value Loss Through conditions for revisions or purchase options, updates of leasing amounts and the restrictions imposed by lease Instrument(1) Type of Change of Derivative Financial arrangements, whether arrays in repayment occur, whether the terms of the contract are renewed, if renewed, the Hedging Item Hedged Item Risk Hedged Item(1) Assets Liabilities Instruments) renewal conditions, whether the renewal results any restrictions, and other important conditions of the leasing agreement: Interest Rate Swap Fixed Rate Interest Transactions Issued Eurobond Rate Risk Finance lease agreements are made in accordance with the related articles of Financial Leasing, Factoring and Financing and Greenbond 127.988 (137.854) (9.866) Company Law No 6361. There are no restructuring or restrictions; which have material effect on financial statements. Interest Rate Swap Fixed Rate Interest Transactions Loans Used Rate Risk 20.723 (21.390) (667) 11. Explanation on derivative financial assets held for hedging purposes (1) The fair value of hedged item and hedging instrument are presented as net market value excluding credit risk and accumulated interest. 11.a Positive differences on derivative financial instruments held for hedging purposes: Positive difference on regarding derivative financial instruments for hedging purposes is amounting to TL 67.884 (31 December 2018 :None) As of 31 December 2019, the net fair value of derivative financial instruments designated as hedging instruments carried in the contract amount and the balance sheet are summarized in the following table: Current Period Prior Period Face Value Asset Liability Face Value Asset Liability Interest Rate Swaps 16.520.430 67.884 (16.545) 18.028.129 (172.258) FC 16.520.430 67.884 (16.545) 18.028.129 (172.258) TL 276 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 277 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION FIVE (Continued) SECTION FIVE (Continued) EXPLANATIONS AND DISCLOSURES ON UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) EXPLANATIONS AND DISCLOSURES ON UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) I. Explanations and disclosures related to the assets (continued) I. Explanations and disclosures related to the assets (continued) 12. Explanations on tangible assets 12. Explanations on tangible assets (net) (continued) Since the third quarter of 2015, the Bank has changed its accounting policy and adopted the revaluation method under TAS Current Current 16 in the valuation of properties included in property, plant and equipment. The appraisal companies authorized by CMB and Prior Period Period Period Revaluation Current BRSA are valued for the year 2018 and accounted as with the valuation amount recorded in the previous period. Prior Period End Additions Disposals Surplus Other Period End Cost Current Current Land and buildings 40.370 2.719 9.160 52.249 Prior Period Period Period Revaluation Current Current Period End Additions Disposals Surplus Other Period End Assets held under finance leases 2.359 (29) 2.330 Cost Vehicles 672 672 Land and buildings 52.249 41 52.290 Assets held for resale Assets held under finance leases 2.330 (2.330) Other 24.757 1.462 (1.118) 25.101 Vehicles 672 1.615 (537) 1.750 Total Cost 68.158 4.181 (1.147) 9.160 80.352 Right to use Securities-Real Accumulated depreciation Estate 40.824 40.824 Land and buildings (211) (20) 207 (24) Assets held for resale Assets held under finance Other 25.101 4.710 (2.736) 27.075 leases (2.218) (32) 29 (2.221) Total Cost 80.352 47.190 (5.603) 121.939 Vehicles (498) (134) (632) Accumulated depreciation Assets held for resale Land and buildings (24) (236) (260) Other (14.378) (3.547) 1.096 (16.829) Assets held under finance Total accumulated leases (2.221) 208 2.013 depreciation (17.305) (3.733) 1.125 207 (19.706) Right to use Securities-Real Impairment provision Estate (632) (90) 537 (185) Land and buildings Vehicles (10.253) (10.253) Assets held under finance Assets held for resale leases Other (16.829) (3.781) 2.606 (2.013) (20.017) Vehicles Total accumulated Assets held for resale depreciation (19.706) (14.360) 3.351 (30.715) Other Impairment provision Total impairment provision Land and buildings Net book value 50.853 448 (22) 9.367 60.646 Assets held under finance leases 13 Explanations on intangible assets Right to use Securities-Real 13.a Useful life or amortization rates used Estate Vehicles Tangible assets, purchased before 1 January 2005, are accounted for at their restated costs as of 31 December 2004 and the Assets held for resale assets purchased in the following periods are accounted for at acquisition cost less accumulated depreciation and reserve Other for impairment. Rental or administrative purposes or other unspecified purposes of assets that under construction will be amortised when they are ready to use. Total impairment provision Net Book Value 60.646 32.830 (2.252) 91.224 13.b Amortization methods used: The intangible assets are amortized principally on straight line basis which amortize the assets over their expected useful lives. 278 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 279 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION FIVE (Continued) SECTION FIVE (Continued) EXPLANATIONS AND DISCLOSURES ON UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) EXPLANATIONS AND DISCLOSURES ON UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) I. Explanations and disclosures related to the assets (continued) I. Explanations and disclosures related to the assets (continued) 13 Explanations on intangible assets (continued) 13 Explanations on intangible assets (continued) 13.c Cost and accumulated amortization at the beginning and end of the period: 13.e The net book value, description and the remaining amortization period of any material individual intangible asset in the financial statements: Beginning of Current Period End of Current Period Gross Book Accumulated Gross Book Accumulated As at the reporting date, the Bank has no individual intangible asset which is material in the financial statements as a whole Current Period Value Amortization Value Amortization (31 December 2018: None). Software 6.607 (3.482) 7.960 (4.931) 13.f Disclosure for intangible assets acquired through government grants and accounted for at fair value at initial Beginning of Prior Period End of Prior Period recognition: Gross Book Accumulated Gross Book Accumulated As at the reporting date, the Bank has no intangible assets acquired through government grants (31 December 2018: None). Prior Period Value Amortization Value Amortization Software 4.145 (2.505) 6.607 (3.482) 13.g The method of subsequent measurement for intangible assets that are acquired through government incentives and recorded at fair value at the initial recognition: 13.d Movement of cost and accumulated amortization for the period: As at the reporting date, the Bank has no intangible assets acquired with government incentives (31 December 2018: None). Closing Balance Current Year Current Year Closing Balance of Current Period of Prior Period Additions Disposals Current Period 13.h The book value of intangible assets that are pledged or restricted for use: Cost: As at the reporting date, there are no intangible assets with restricted use or pledged (31 December 2018: None). Software 6.607 1.540 (187) 7.960 Total Cost 6.607 1.540 (187) 7.960 13.i Amount of purchase commitments for intangible assets: Accumulated amortization: As at the reporting date, the Bank has no purchase commitments for intangible assets (31 December 2018: None). Software (3.482) (1.636) 187 (4.931) 13.j Information on revalued intangible assets according to their types: Total Accumulated Amortization (3.482) (1.636) 187 (4.931) The Bank did not revalue its intangible assets as at the reporting date (31 December 2018: None). Impairment provision: 13.k Amount of total research and development expenses recorded in income statement within the period, if any: Software Total Impairment provision The Bank has no research and development costs expensed in the current period (31 December 2018: None). Net Book Value 3.125 (96) 3.029 13.l Information on goodwill: Closing Balance Current Year Current Year Closing Balance of As at the reporting date, the Bank has no goodwill (31 December 2018: None). Prior Period of Prior Period Additions Disposals Current Period Cost: 13.m The carrying value of goodwill at beginning and end of the period, and movements within the period: Software 4.145 2.500 (38) 6.607 Total Cost 4.145 2.500 (38) 6.607 As at the reporting date, the Bank has no goodwill in the accompanying financial statements (31 December 2018: None). 13.n The carrying value of negative goodwill at beginning and end of the period, and movements within the period: Accumulated amortization: Software (2.505) (978) 1 (3.482) As at the reporting date, the Bank has no negative goodwill in the accompanying financial statements (31 December 2018: Total Accumulated Amortization (2.505) (978) 1 (3.482) None). Impairment provision: 14. Information on investment property Software The Bank has no investment property (31 December 2018: None). Total Impairment provision Net Book Value 1.640 1.522 (37) 3.125 280 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 281 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION FIVE (Continued) SECTION FIVE (Continued) EXPLANATIONS AND DISCLOSURES ON UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) EXPLANATIONS AND DISCLOSURES ON UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) I. Explanations and disclosures related to the assets (continued) I. Explanations and disclosures related to the assets (continued) 15. Information on deferred tax assets 16. Explanation on assets held for sale 15.a Temporary differences, tax losses, exemptions and deductions reflected to balance sheet as deferred tax asset: Current Period Prior Period Net book value at beginning of period 1 The Bank has computed deferred tax asset or liability on temporary differences arising from carrying values of assets and Cash Paid for Purchase 64.402 1 liabilities in the accompanying financial statements and their tax bases. Expected Loss (-) Deferred tax asset: Current Period Prior Period Net book value at end of period 64.403 1 Loan commissions accrual adjustment 22.138 23.032 Other provisions 129.195 79.316 Bank have reached an agreement on restructuring the debts of Ojer Telekomünikasyon A.Ş. (OTAŞ), the major shareholder Employee benefit provision 3.239 2.660 of Türk Telekomünikasyon A.Ş. (Türk Telekom) provided under the loan agreements. It was completed that 192.500.000.000 Class A shares owned by OTAŞ in Türk Telekom, representing 55% of Türk Telekom’s issued share capital, which have been Marketable securities 2.028 pledged as security for the existing loan facilities of OTAŞ, would be taken over by a special purpose vehicle incorporated Other 7.555 2.739 or to be incorporated in the Republic of Turkey, owned directly or indirectly by the creditors. The Bank has participated in Total Deferred Tax Asset 164.155 107.747 LYY Telekomünikasyon A.Ş.. which was established within this context with 1,6172% stake and amounting to TL 64.403 . The Deferred tax liability: Bank considered the related investment within the scope of TFRS 5 “Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations” (31 Marketable securities (37.489) December 2018: TL 1). Valuation of derivative instruments (104.308) (43.303) 17. Information about other assets Loan commissions accrual adjustment (14.744) (12.329) Useful life difference of fixed assets (772) (728) 17.a Other assets which exceed 10% of the balance sheet total and breakdown of these which constitute at least 20% Other (5.803) (10.363) of grand total: Total Deferred Tax Liability (125.627) (104.212) Net Deferred Tax Asset 38.528 3.535 Other assets do not exceed 10% of total assets, excluding off-balance sheet commitments (31 December 2018: None). II. Explanations and disclosures related to the liabilities Current Period Prior Period Deferred Tax as of January 1 Asset/(Liability) Net 3.535 39.366 1. Information of maturity structure of deposits Deferred Tax (Loss)/Gain 88.411 (102.002) 1.a Maturity structure of deposits: Deferred Tax that is Realized Under Shareholder’s Equity (1) (53.418) 66.171 Deferred Tax Asset/(Liability) Net 38.528 3.535 The Bank is not authorized to accept deposits. 15.b Temporary differences over which deferred tax asset are not computed and recorded in the balance sheet in 1.b Information on saving deposits under the guarantee of saving deposit insurance fund and exceeding the limit of prior periods, if so, their expiry date, losses and tax deductions and exceptions: deposit insurance fund: The Bank has no deductible temporary differences that are not included in calculation of deferred tax asset and not reflected The Bank is not authorized to accept deposits. to financial statements in prior periods (31 December 2018: None). 1.c Information on the scope whether the Bank with a foreign head office suits saving deposit insurance of the related 15.c Allowance for deferred tax and deferred tax assets from reversal of allowance: country: As of the reporting date, the Bank has no allowance for deferred tax and deferred tax liability from reversal of allowance (31 The Bank is not authorized to accept deposits. December 2018: None). 1.d Saving deposits which are not under the guarantee of deposit insurance fund: The Bank is not authorized to accept deposits. 282 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 283 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION FIVE (Continued) SECTION FIVE (Continued) EXPLANATIONS AND DISCLOSURES ON UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) EXPLANATIONS AND DISCLOSURES ON UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) II. Explanations and disclosures related to the liabilities (continued) II. Explanations and disclosures related to the liabilities (continued) 2. Negative differences table related to derivative financial liabilities 3. Information on banks and other financial institutions(continued) Current Period Prior Period 3.d Additional information about the concentrated areas of liabilities: Derivative Financial Liabilities (1) TL FC TL FC Forward Transactions 41.025 142 87.610 6.307 Under normal banking operations, the Bank provided funds under repurchase agreements and funds borrowed. Fund resources of the Bank particularly consist of foreign FC funds borrowed and FC and TL repurchase transactions. Information Swap Transactions 235.908 181.127 354.659 111.839 relating to funds provided under repurchase agreements is shown in the table below: Futures Transactions Options 9.596 59.646 Current Period Prior Period Other TL FC TL FC Total 276.933 190.865 442.269 177.792 From Domestic Transactions 369.379 216.152 41.539 137.458 (1) Financial Liabilities for Hedging Purposes amounting to TL 16.545 (31 December 2018: TL 172.258) are shown in “Derivative Financial Liabilities” in accordance with the Financial institutions and organizations 320.343 financial statement format with effective date of 1 January 2019. Other institutions and organizations 48.417 211.791 41.013 133.730 Real persons 619 4.361 526 3.728 3. Information on banks and other financial institutions From Foreign Transactions 5 446.020 4 3.a General Information on banks and other financial institutions: Financial institutions and organizations 446.020 Other institutions and organizations 2 2 Current Period Prior Period Real persons 3 2 TL FC TL FC Total 369.384 662.172 41.543 137.458 Loans from Central Bank of Turkey From Domestic Banks and Institutions 493.500 412.684 5.000 265.220 4. Other liabilities which exceed 10% of the balance sheet total and the breakdown of these which constitute at least From Foreign Banks, Institutions and Funds 122.030 25.318.717 122.007 23.183.791 20% of grand total Total 615.530 25.731.401 127.007 23.449.011 There are no other liabilities, which exceed 10% of the balance sheet total (31 December 2018: None). 3.b Maturity analysis of funds borrowed: 5. Informations on financial lease obligations (net) Current Period Prior Period 5.a Explanations on finance lease payables: TL FC TL FC Short-term 132.621 5.000 The Bank has no financial lease payables (31 December 2018: None). Medium and long-term 615.530 25.598.780 122.007 23.449.011 Total 615.530 25.731.401 127.007 23.449.011 5.b Explanations regarding operational leases: As of the reporting date, the Bank’s 2 head office buildings, 1 branch, 11 cars and 177 computers are subject to operational 3.c Information on marketable securities issued leasing. (31 December 2018: 2 head office buildings, 1 branch, 11 cars and 327 computers under operational leasing). In the Current Period Prior Period current period, the Bank has TL 34.278 liabilities within the scope of TFRS 16 regarding operating lease transactions TL FC TL FC 5.c Explanations on the lessor and lessee in sales and lease back transactions, agreement conditions, and major Nominal 5.916.000 6.932.250 agreement terms: Cost 5.884.485 6.917.804 Book Value 6.023.450 6.949.189 The Bank has no sale and lease back transactions as of the reporting date (31 December 2018: None). As of 22 April 2015, the Bank has performed the similar issuance of Eurobond with the nominal amount of USD 350 Million. Interest rate of these debt instruments determined as 5,125% which have the redemption date of 22 April 2020 with fixed interest rate, 5 years maturity and semiannual coupon payment. Selling of Greenbond which was issued by the Parent Bank in abroad with nominal value of USD 300 Million, 5 years maturity and for financing the green and sustainable projects has been completed on 18 May 2016. The return of these bonds which have the redemption date of 18 May 2021 and 5 years maturity is determined as 5,048% and the coupon rate as 4,875%. As of 16 January 2018, the Bank issued the debt instrument which have nominal value of USD 350 Million, redemption date of 16 January 2023 with fixed interest rate of 5,608%, 5 years maturity and semiannual coupon payment. 284 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 285 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION FIVE (Continued) SECTION FIVE (Continued) EXPLANATIONS AND DISCLOSURES ON UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) EXPLANATIONS AND DISCLOSURES ON UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) II. Explanations and disclosures related to the liabilities (continued) II. Explanations and disclosures related to the liabilities (continued) 6. Negative differences on derivative financial instruments held for hedging purposes: 7. Information on provisions (continued) Current Period Prior Period 7.c Information on other provisions (continued) TL FC TL FC Fair Value Hedge (1) 16.545 172.258 7.c.2 Information on employee termination benefits and unused vacation accrual (continued) Cash Flow Hedge Liabilities for pension funds established in accordance with Social Security Institution Net Investment Hedge in a foreign operation Total 16.545 172.258 None (31 December 2018: None). (1) Derivative Financial Liabilities for Hedging Purposes are shown in the “Derivative Financial Liabilities” account in accordance with the financial statement format with Liabilities resulting from all kinds of pension funds, foundations etc. which provide post-retirement benefits for the effective date of 1 January 2019. employees 7. Explanations on provisions The Bank’s present value of the liabilities of TSKB A.Ş. Memur ve Müstahdemleri Yardım ve Emekli Vakfı fund, subject to the transfer to the Social Security Institution of the Pension Fund as of 31 December 2019 has been calculated by an independent 7.a Foreign exchange losses on the foreign currency indexed loans and finance lease receivables: actuary in accordance with the actuarial assumptions in the Law and as per actuarial report dated 17 January 2020, there is The Bank has no foreign exchange losses on the foreign currency indexed loans. (31 December 2018: None). no need for technical or actual deficit to book provision as of 31 December 2019. 7.b Unindemnified non-cash loans third stage expected loss provisions or non-cash loans expected loss provisions: Accordingly, as of 31 December 2019 the Bank has no requirements for the benefits transferable to the fund and for other benefits not transferable to the fund and arising from other social rights and payments covered by the existing trust The Bank’s specific provisions provided for unindemnified non cash loans third stage expected loss provisions amounts to TL indenture of the Fund and medical benefits provided for employees in accordance to the law explained in Note 3.16, the 838 (31 December 2018: TL 736). accounting policies related with employee benefits. The Bank has TL 23.857 of non-cash loans for the expected loss provision. (December 31,2018: TL 11.251) 7.c.3 If other provisions exceed 10% of total provisions, the name and amount of sub-accounts: 7.c Information on other provisions: None 7.c.1 Provision for possible losses: Free provision amounting to TL 220.000 provided by the Bank management in the current period for possible results of the circumstances which may arise from possible changes in the economy and market conditions (31 December 2018: TL 220.000). 7.c.2 Information on employee termination benefits and unused vacation accrual The Bank has calculated reserve for employee termination benefits by using actuarial valuations as set out in the Turkish Accounting Standard No: 19 and reflected the calculated amount to the financial statements. As of 31 December 2019, employee termination benefits is amounting TL 11.864 reflected in financial statements (31 December 2018: TL 9.770). As of 31 December 2018, the Bank has provided a reserve for unused vacation amounting to TL 2.860 (31 December 2018: TL 2.319). This balance is classified under reserve for employee benefits in the financial statements. Actuarial gains and losses amount of TL 940 are consisted after 1 January 2019, are recognised under equity in accordance with revised TAS 19 standard (31 December 2018: TL 670 actuarial loss). Liabilities on pension rights As explained on the Section Three, Accounting Policies, XV. Explanations on Liabilities Regarding Employee Benefits as of 31 December 2019, the Bank has no obligations on pension rights (31 December 2018: None). 286 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 287 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION FIVE (Continued) SECTION FIVE (Continued) EXPLANATIONS AND DISCLOSURES ON UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) EXPLANATIONS AND DISCLOSURES ON UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) II. Explanations and disclosures related to the liabilities (continued) II. Explanations and disclosures related to the liabilities (continued) 8. Explanations on taxes payable 10. Explanations on the number of subordinated loans the Bank used, maturity, interest rate, institution that the loan was borrowed from, and conversion option, if any: 8.a Explanations on current taxes payable: As of 28 March 2017, the Bank issued the sustainable subordinated debt instruments which have nominal value of USD 300 8.a.1 Explanations on taxes payable: Million, redemption date of 29 March 2022 with fixed interest rate of 7,625%, semiannual coupon payment. The value of the borrowing instrument as of the period end is TL 1.830.045. Current Period Prior Period Corporate Taxes and Deferred Taxes TL FC TL FC Current Period Prior Period Corporate tax payable 67.604 82.363 Debt Instruments Subject to Common Equity TL FC TL FC Deferred tax liability Subordinated Loans Total 67.604 82.363 Subordinated Debt Instruments Debt Instruments Subject to Tier II Equity 1.830.045 1.549.774 8.a.2 Information on taxes payable: Subordinated Loans Current Period Prior Period Subordinated Debt Instruments 1.830.045 1.549.774 Corporate taxes payable 67.604 82.363 Total 1.830.045 1.549.774 Taxation of securities 337 523 11. Explanations on shareholders’ equity Property tax Banking and Insurance Transaction Tax (BITT) 6.865 6.460 11.a Presentation of paid-in capital: Foreign Exchange Transaction Tax Value Added Tax Payable 430 701 Current Period Prior Period Other 2.054 1.686 Common stock 2.800.000 2.800.000 Total 77.290 91.733 Preferred stock 11.b Paid-in capital amount, explanation as to whether the registered share capital system ceiling is applicable at 8.a.3 Information on premiums: bank, if so, amount of registered share capital: Current Period Prior Period Capital System Paid-in capital Ceiling Social Security Premiums-Employee Registered Capital System 2.800.000 4.500.000 Social Security Premiums-Employer Bank Social Aid Pension Fund Premium-Employee 11.c Information on share capital increases and their sources; other information on increased capital shares in current Bank Social Aid Pension Fund Premium-Employer period: Pension Fund Membership Fees and Provisions-Employee Pension Fund Membership Fees and Provisions-Employer In the meeting of the General Assembly held on 28 March 2019, it has been resolved that, the Bank has no capital increase Unemployment insurance-Employee 45 38 in the current period, and it was decided to transfer the 2018 profit to the reserves within the framework of the General Assembly Decision. Unemployment insurance-Employer 90 75 Other In the meeting of the General Assembly held on 23 March 2018, it has been resolved that, paid in capital of the Bank will be Total 135 113 increased from TL 2.400.000 to TL 2.800.000 by adding TL 400.000. In respect of the resolution of the General Assembly, all of this increase will be incorporated from the profit of the year 2017. Aforementioned increase was approved by the BRSA dated 8.b Information on deferred taxes liabilities: 26 April 2018 and was announced in the Turkish Trade Registry Gazette dated 7 June 2018 and No. 9605. As at the reporting date, the Bank has no deferred tax liability (31 December 2018: None). 11.d Information on share capital increases from capital reserves: 9. Explanations on liabilities regarding assets held for sale None (31 December 2018: None). None (31 December 2018: None). 11.e Capital commitments in the last fiscal year and at the end of the following period, the general purpose of these commitments and projected resources required to meet these commitments: The Bank has no capital commitments for its associates in the last fiscal year and at the end of the following period. 288 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 289 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION FIVE (Continued) SECTION FIVE (Continued) EXPLANATIONS AND DISCLOSURES ON UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) EXPLANATIONS AND DISCLOSURES ON UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) II. Explanations and disclosures related to the liabilities (continued) III. Explanations and disclosures related to the off-balance sheet items 11. Explanations on shareholders’ equity (continued) 1. Explanation on off-balance sheet liabilities 11.f Indicators of the Bank’s income, profitability and liquidity for the previous periods and possible effects of these 1.a Types and amount of irrevocable loan commitments: future assumptions on the Bank’s equity due to the uncertainty of these indicators: Current Period Prior Period The prior period income, profitability and liquidity of the Bank and their trends in the successive periods are followed by Commitments for Forward Purchase and Sales of Assets 21.404 97.040 Budget Planning and Investor Relations Department by considering the outcomes of the potential changes in the foreign Commitments for Stock Brokerage Purchase and Sales 5.638 25.941 exchange rate, interest rate and maturity alterations on profitability and liquidity under various scenario analyses. Commitments for Letter of Credit 94.264 177.294 The Bank operations are profitable, and the Bank retains the major part of its profit by capital increases or capital reserves Capital commitments for subsidiaries and associates (1) 96.782 97.805 within the shareholders equity. Other 222.589 193.329 Total 440.677 591.409 11.g Information on preferred shares: (1) The Bank, the European Investment Fund (European Investment Fund EIF), to be established by Turkey, Growth and Innovation Fund (Turkish Growth and Innovation Fund TGIF) purchase of shares of the fund established under the name situated remaining amount that commitment and capital participation commitment regarding The Bank has no preferred shares (31 December 2018: None). the cash capital increase of TSKB Sürdürülebilirlik A.Ş. 11.h Information on marketable securities value increase fund: 1.b Possible losses and commitments related to off-balance sheet items including items listed below: Current Period Prior Period 1.b.1 Non-cash loans including guarantees, surety and acceptances, financial collaterals and other letters of credits: TL FC TL FC From Associates, Subsidiaries, and Entities Under Common As of the reporting date, total letters of credit, surety and acceptances amount to TL 2.728.688 (31 December 2018: TL Control 845.518 801.864 1.590.814). Available for Sale Financial Assets 67.613 (3.357) (69.635) (69.434) 1.b.2 Certain guarantees, tentative guarantees, surety ships and similar transactions: Valuation Differences 46.899 (3.357) (85.339) (69.434) Foreign Exchange Difference 20.714 15.704 As of the reporting date, total letters of guarantee given by the Bank is TL 1.819.030 (31 December 2018: TL 1.582.995). Total 913.131 (3.357) 732.229 (69.434) 1.c Total amount of non-cash loans: 11.i Informations on legal reserves: Current Period Prior Period Current Period Prior Period Non-cash loans given against obtaining cash loans 1.816.074 1.559.899 First legal reserve 303.070 184.354 With maturity of one year or less than one year 189.405 92.374 Second legal reserve 85.670 With maturity of more than one year 1.626.669 1.467.525 Other legal reserves appropriated in accordance with special Other non-cash loans 2.731.644 1.613.910 legislation Total 4.547.718 3.173.809 Total 303.070 270.024 11.j Informations on extraordinary reserves: Current Period Prior Period Reserves appropriated by the General Assembly 833.645 170.106 Retained earnings Accumulated losses Foreign currency share capital exchange differences Total 833.645 170.106 290 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 291 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION FIVE (Continued) SECTION FIVE (Continued) EXPLANATIONS AND DISCLOSURES ON UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) EXPLANATIONS AND DISCLOSURES ON UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) III. Explanations and disclosures related to the off-balance sheet items (continued) III. Explanations and disclosures related to the off-balance sheet items (continued) 1. Explanation on off-balance sheet liabilities (continued) 2. Explanation related to derivative financial instruments 1.d Information on sectoral risk concentration of non cash loans: As of 31 December 2019, the breakdown of the Bank’s foreign currency forward and swap transactions based on currencies are disclosed below in their TL equivalents: Current Period Prior Period TL (%) FC (%) TL (%) FC (%) Current Forward Forward Option Option Futures Futures Fair Value Agriculture Period Buy Sell Swap Buy Swap Sell Buy Sell Buy Sell Hedge Farming and stockbreeding TL 1.359.615 1.355.680 523.843 2.618.503 444.061 443.961 Forestry US Dollar 1.067.693 1.068.050 12.393.207 7.923.738 259.855 259.855 16.520.430 Fishing Euro 268.272 268.400 3.282.915 5.217.682 184.034 184.034 Industry 446.093 99 3.875.939 94 483.461 99 2.533.836 95 Other 147.015 157.687 Mining 29.417 1 20.650 4 Total 2.695.580 2.692.130 16.346.980 15.917.610 887.950 887.850 16.520.430 Manufacturing Industry 224.957 50 2.312.722 56 279.645 57 1.329.829 50 Prior Forward Forward Option Option Futures Futures Fair Value Electricity, Gas, Water 221.136 49 1.533.800 37 183.166 38 1.204.007 45 Period Buy Sell Swap Buy Swap Sell Buy Sell Buy Sell Hedge Construction 3.013 1 27.637 1 2.747 1 710 TL 974.149 845.785 827.263 3.432.783 1.281.990 1.281.990 Services 1.630 193.406 5 1.739 151.316 5 US Dollar 136.897 321.265 10.777.833 6.640.106 1.204.750 1.204.755 18.028.129 Wholesale and Retail Trade 3.947 6.229 Euro 827.414 695.439 3.890.834 5.231.512 147.514 147.509 Hotel, Food and Beverage Other 166.575 155.096 13.401 Services 115.344 3 107.718 4 Total 1.938.460 1.862.489 15.662.505 15.459.497 2.634.254 2.634.254 13.401 18.028.129 Transportation and Communication 1.138 1.138 9.701 Current Period Prior Period Financial Institutions 96 74.115 2 321 27.668 1 Notional Real Asset and Leasing Derivative Financial Amount in Notional Amount Services 396 280 Liabilities Held For Fair Value Fair Value Turkish Lira Fair Value Fair Value in Turkish Lira Self-employment Services Trading Assets Liabilities Equivalent Liabilities Assets Equivalent Education Services Swap Transactions 663.399 286.807 13.567.336 658.746 394.627 14.409.996 Health and Social Services Interest Rate Swap Other Transactions 177.133 130.228 18.697.254 107.411 71.871 16.712.006 Total 450.736 100 4.096.982 100 487.947 100 2.685.862 100 Forward Transactions 44.287 41.167 5.387.710 152.353 93.917 3.800.949 Option Transactions 9.596 9.596 1.775.800 59.646 59.646 5.268.508 1.e Information on non cash loans classified under Group I and Group II: Other 13.401 Total 894.415 467.798 39.428.100 978.156 620.061 40.204.860 Ist Group IInd Group Current Period Prior Period Current Period Prior Period Fair value hedge TL FC TL FC TL FC TL FC Non-cash Loans 440.863 4.083.632 478.129 2.676.264 6.547 13.350 6.854 9.598 For the year ended 31 December 2019, the Bank has interest rate swaps for hedging purposes nominal amount of TL Letters of Guarantee (1) 440.863 1.368.294 478.129 1.095.048 6.547 6.854 16.520.430 (31 December 2018: TL 18.028.129) Bank Acceptances 190.447 Hedging from the cash-flow risk Letters of Credit 2.524.891 1.581.216 13.350 9.598 Endorsements As of 31 December 2019 there is no cash-flow hedging transactions (31 December 2018: None). Purchase Guarantees on Issuance of Securities Factoring Guarantees Other (1) The letter of guarantee followed in the stage 3 is amounting to TL 3.326. 292 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 293 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION FIVE (Continued) SECTION FIVE (Continued) EXPLANATIONS AND DISCLOSURES ON UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) EXPLANATIONS AND DISCLOSURES ON UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) III. Explanations and disclosures related to the off-balance sheet items (continued) IV. Explanations and disclosures related to the income statement 3. Explanations on loan derivatives and risk exposures 1. Information on interest income The Bank has no loan derivatives and such risk exposures to this respect (31 December 2018: None). 1.a Information on interest on loans: 4. Explanations on contingent liabilities and assets Current Period Prior Period TL FC TL FC There are 41 legal cases against the Bank which are amounting to TL 2.162 as of the reporting date (31 December 2018: TL Interest on loans (1) 2.175 37 legal cases). Short term loans 160.261 109.216 311.594 55.039 Tax Audit Committee inspectors made an investigation for the years 2008-2011 about the payments made by the Bank and Medium and long term loans 357.131 1.525.484 330.572 1.377.651 employees to “Türkiye Sınai Kalkınma Bankası A.Ş. Mensupları Munzam Sosyal Güvenlik ve Yardımlaşma Vakfı” (Foundation) Interest on non-performing loans 9.663 51.003 7 29.715 established in accordance with the decisions of Turkish Commercial Law and Civil Law as made to all Foundations in the Premiums received from Resource Utilization sector. According to this investigation it has been communicated that the amount Bank is obliged to pay is a benefit in the Support Fund nature of fee for the members of Foundation worked at the time of payment, the amount Foundation members are obliged Total 527.055 1.685.703 642.173 1.462.405 to pay should not been deducted from the basis of fee; accordingly tax audit report was issued with the claim that it should (1) Commission income from loans have been included to the interest on loans. be taken penalized income tax surcharge/penalized stump duty deducted from allowance and total amount of TL 17.325 tax penalty notice relating to period in question to Bank relying on this report. 1.b Information on interest received from banks: The Bank assesses that the Bank’s practice is in compliance with the legislation and there is no legal basis for the tax Current Period Prior Period administration’s suspended assessments, therefore, lawsuits have been filed against the subjected assessments in various TL FC TL FC tax courts in İstanbul, Ankara and İzmir. Some of the lawsuits are decided favourable, remaining of lawsuits are decided unfavourable by the tax courts of first instance. On the other hand, appeal and objection have been requested by the Bank The Central Bank of Turkey (1) 7.101 10.258 against the decision of the Court with respect to the Bank and by the administration against the decision of the Court with Domestic banks 25.667 20.828 25.825 8.318 respect to the administration and completion of appeal process is waited. The tax and penalty notices related to the decision Foreign banks 1.417 6.472 1.143 499 of the tax court of first instance against the Bank are accrued by administration depending on legal process and as of 31 July Branches and head office abroad 2014 the Bank has made total payments amounting to TL 22.091. Total 34.185 27.300 37.226 8.817 A similar case has been submitted to the Constitutional Court in the form of individual remedies by the main shareholder (1) Interests given to the Turkish Lira and US Dollar portion of the CBRT Required Reserves, reserve options and unrestricted accounts have been presented under “The Central Bank of Turkey” line in the financial statements. of the Bank in relation to the Bank’s liabilites to pay, the Constitutional Court gave the decision with court file number 2014/6192. According to court decision published in the Official Gazette dated 21 February 2015 and numbered 29274, the 1.c Information on interest received from marketable securities: assessments against the Bank was contrary to the principle of legality and the Bank’s property rights has been violated. This decision is considered to be a precedent for the Bank and an amount of TL 12.750 corresponding to the portion that the Bank Current Period Prior Period was obliged to pay for the related period is recognized as income in the prior period., TL FC TL FC Financial Assets at Fair Value Through Profit and Loss 3 20 According to Legal Department of the Bank, it is not expected that the other lawsuits against the Bank will have a significant impact on the financial statements. Financial Assets at Fair Value Through Other Comprehensive Income 370.527 71.792 296.002 62.774 5. Custodian and intermediary services: Financial Assets Measured at Amortized Cost 199.903 26.895 386.565 15.635 Total 570.433 98.687 682.587 78.409 The Bank provides trading and safe keeping services in the name and account of real persons, legal entities, funds, pension funds and other entities, which are presented in the statement of contingencies and commitments. As indicated in accounting policies, the bank evaluate its Consumer Price Indexed (CPI) goverment bonds which are in securities portfolio of the Bank base on reference index at date of issue and estimated CPI’s. The estimated CPI’s is updated when it seems necessary. The subjected securities is evaluated based on actual index on the annual balance sheet date as of 31 December 2019. 294 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 295 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION FIVE (Continued) SECTION FIVE (Continued) EXPLANATIONS AND DISCLOSURES ON UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) EXPLANATIONS AND DISCLOSURES ON UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) IV. Explanations and disclosures related to the income statement (continued) IV. Explanations and disclosures related to the income statement (continued) 1. Information on interest income (continued) 4. Information on net trading income (net) 1.d Information on interest income received from associates and subsidiaries: Current Period Prior Period Profit 3.354.753 5.547.271 Current Period Prior Period Gains on capital market operations 4.053 4.746 Interest received from associates and subsidiaries 18.588 26.082 Gains on derivative financial instruments (1) 2.046.760 3.219.120 Foreign exchange gains 1.303.940 2.323.405 2. Information on interest expenses Losses (-) (3.800.413) (5.814.502) 2.a Information on interest on funds borrowed: Losses on capital market operations (2.733) (2.733) Losses on derivative financial instruments (1) (2.600.057) (3.696.228) Current Period Prior Period Foreign exchange losses (1.197.623) (2.115.541) TL FC TL FC Banks 44.141 85.837 46.200 72.524 (1) Foreign exchange gain from derivative transactions amounting to TL 744.128 is presented in “Gains on derivative financial instruments” (31 December 2018: TL 2.101.244), foreign exchange loss from derivative transactions amounting to TL (1.186.618) is presented in “Losses on derivative financial instruments” (31 December The Central Bank of Turkey 2018: TL (2.552.274)). Domestic banks 33.978 7.010 34.673 6.760 Foreign banks 10.163 78.827 11.527 65.764 5. Explanation related to other operating income Branches and head office abroad Current Period Prior Period Other financial institutions 2.794 505.634 2.794 439.969 Provisions Released 27.199 91.077 Total (1) 46.935 591.471 48.994 512.493 Gains on Sale of Assets 1.025 73 (1) Commissions given to other financial institutions have been included to interest expense on funds borrowed. From Associate and Subsidiary Sales From Immovable Fixed Asset Sales 106 2.b Information on interest expense to associates and subsidiaries: From Property Sales 837 The Bank has no interest expense to its associates and subsidiaries (31 December 2018: None). From Other Asset Sales 82 73 Other 3.388 3.008 2.c Information on interest expense to securities issued: Total 31.612 94.158 Current Period Prior Period TL FC TL FC 6. Expected credit loss of the Bank Interest on Securities Issued (1) 556.212 491.351 Current Period Prior Period (1) Commissions given to issuance have been included to interest expense on funds borrowed. Expected Credit Loss 416.769 492.813 12 Months Expected Credit Loss (Stage 1) 49.807 81.527 3. Information on dividend income Significant Increase in Credit Risk (Stage 2) 143.607 131.972 Current period Prior Period Non-performing Loans (Stage 3) 223.355 279.314 Financial Assets at Fair Value Through Profit or Loss Marketable Securities Impairment Expenses 42.113 8.380 Financial Assets at Fair Value Through Other Comprehensive Income 3.035 3.098 Financial Assets at Fair Value Through Profit or Loss 34.196 773 Other 4.088 913 Financial Assets at Fair Value Through Other Comprehensive Income 7.917 7.607 Total 7.123 4.011 Associates, Subsidiaries, and Entities under Common Control (Joint Venture) Value Decrease Associates Subsidiaries Entities under Common Control (Joint Venture) Other 30.000 Total 458.882 531.193 296 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 297 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION FIVE (Continued) SECTION FIVE (Continued) EXPLANATIONS AND DISCLOSURES ON UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) EXPLANATIONS AND DISCLOSURES ON UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) IV. Explanations and disclosures related to the income statement (continued) IV. Explanations and disclosures related to the income statement (continued) 7. Information related to other operating expenses 9. Explanations on net profit/loss from continued and discontinued operations Current Period Prior Period As of 31 December 2019, the Bank’s profit before tax has increased by 6,16% compared to the prior period. Reserve for employee termination benefits 1.155 787 Bank social aid fund deficit provision 10. Information on net profit/loss Impairment expenses of fixed assets 10.a The nature and amount of certain income and expense items from ordinary operations is disclosed if the Depreciation expenses of fixed assets 14.360 3.733 disclosure for nature, amount and repetition rate of such items is required for the complete understanding of the Impairment expenses of intangible assets Bank’s performance for the period: Impairment expense of goodwill The Bank has generated TL 3.254.968 of interest income, TL 1.323.131 of interest expenses and TL 29.758 of net fee and Amortization expenses of intangible assets 1.636 978 commission income from banking operations (31 December 2018: TL 3.034.857 interest income, TL 1.281.465 interest Impairment on subsidiaries accounted for under equity method expense, TL 19.001 net fee and commission income). Impairment on assets for resale Depreciation expenses of assets for resale 10.b The effect of the change in accounting estimates to the net profit/loss; including the effects to the future period, Impairment expenses of assets held for sale if any: Other operating expenses 24.604 31.458 There has no change in the accounting estimates and accordingly effect on the financial statement items. Rent expenses 1.108 12.998 Maintenance expenses 836 677 10.c Minority share of profit and loss: Advertisement expenses 1.462 966 There is no profit and loss attributable to minority interest in the accompanying unconsolidated financial statements (31 Other expenses 21.198 16.817 December 2018: None). Loss on sale of assets Other (1) 33.080 19.483 11. If the other items in the income statement exceed 10% of the income statement total, accounts amounting to at Total 74.835 56.439 least 20% of these items are shown below: (1) Tax and fee expenses excluding corporate tax amounting to TL 12.504; Includes allowance reserves expenses amounting to TL 541 (31.12.2018: tax and fee expenses None other than other operating expense explained in Note IV.7, exceeds 10% of the income statement. excluding corporate tax: 5.413 TL; allowance expenses: 315 TL). 8. Information on tax provision for continued and discontinued operations 8.a Explanation on current tax charge or benefit and deferred tax charge or benefit: The Bank’s current tax charge for the period is TL 280.993 (31 December 2018: TL 146.335). Deferred tax income is TL 88.411 (31 December 2018: TL 102.002 deferred tax expense). 8.b Explanation related to deferred tax benefit or charge on temporary differences: Deferred tax income calculated on temporary differences is TL 88.411 (31 December 2018: TL 102.002 deferred tax charge). 8.c Explanation related to deferred tax benefit/charge on temporary differences, losses, tax deductions and exceptions: There has no deferred tax revenues or expenses reflected in the income statement in respect of financial losses, tax deductions and exemptions (31 December 2018: TL None). 298 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 299 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION FIVE (Continued) SECTION FIVE (Continued) EXPLANATIONS AND DISCLOSURES ON UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) EXPLANATIONS AND DISCLOSURES ON UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) V. Explanations related to the statement of changes in shareholders’ equity VI. Explanations related to the statement of cash flows (continued) 1. Informations related to capital 3. Information on cash and cash equivalents at the end of the period As of the balance sheet date, Paid in capital is TL 2.800.000, legal reserves is TL 303.070 Extraordinary legal reserves is Information on cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the period: TL 833.645. Beginning of the Beginning of the 2. Accumulated other comprehensive income or loss not reclassified through profit or loss Current Period Prior Period Cash 23 20 Changes in Accumulated other comprehensive income or loss not reclassified through profit or loss includes valuation Cash Equivalents 1.202.087 20.156 differences related to tangible assets, Defined Benefit Pension Plan related to Actuarial gains, related to valuation differences Total 1.202.110 20.176 of the shares that are being classified fair value through other comprehensive income are being valued at market value and value increase differences in investment in associates, subsidiaries and entities under common control. Information on cash and cash equivalents at the end of the period: 3. Accumulated other comprehensive income or loss reclassified through profit or loss End of the End of the Changes in Accumulated other comprehensive income or loss reclassified through profit or loss includes related to exchange Current Period Prior Period differences of the shares that are being classified fair value through other comprehensive imcome and related to revaluation Cash 25 23 differences of fair value through other comprehensive income. Cash Equivalents 599.560 1.202.087 Total 599.585 1.202.110 VI. Explanations related to the statement of cash flows 1. The effects of the other items stated in the cash flow statement and the changes in foreign currency exchange rates 4. Amount of cash and cash equivalents restricted for the usage of the Bank and the shareholders by legal limitations on cash and cash equivalents and other reasons In the current period, other income amounting to TL 4.708, consists of gain on sale of assets and non-interest income (31 Reserves amounting to TL 796.067 (31 December 2018: TL 730.273) in Turkish Republic Central Bank represent Turkish Lira, December 2018: TL 6.135 gain on sale of assets, and non-interest income). foreign currency requirements of the Bank. Other caption in changes in assets and liabilities from banking operations amounting to TL (344.252) consists of derivative 5. Additional information related to financial position and liquidity of the Bank financial transaction losses, taxes paid except employee termination benefits provision and depreciation expense, other 5.a Any unused financial borrowing facility which can be utilized in banking operations and unpaid capital operating expenses, fees and commissions paid and trading income/loss. (31 December 2018: TL 713.499 consists of commitments and any restrictions on such facilities: derivative financial transaction losses, taxes paid except loss employee termination benefits provision and depreciation expense, other operating expenses, fees and commissions paid and trading income/loss). There are not any unused financial borrowing facilities which can be utilized in banking operations and unpaid capital commitments and any restrictions on such facilities. In the current period, net increase/decrease item in other assets amounting to TL 138.668 (31 December 2018: TL (387.971)), consists of change in miscellaneous receivables, reserve requirement and other assets items. 5.b Apart from the cash flows needed to run ordinary operations of the Bank, total of cash flows that shows the increase in the operation capacity of the Bank: In the current period, other payables amounting to TL (631.340) (31 December 2018: (TL 651.961)), consists of change in borrower funds, miscellaneous payables and funds from repo transactions. Under current economical conditions, the cash flows are followed daily and cash flows showing the increase in the capacity of operations of the Bank are investigated. In the current period, the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents has realized amounting to TL 3.262 (31 December 2018: TL 45.114). 2. Information about cash flows from acquisition of associates, subsidiaries and other investments In the current period, the Bank has invested TL 6.366 of movable and immovable property and TL 1.540 of intangible assets. In the current period, there is TL 400 investment on subsidiaries and affiliates. In the prior period, the Bank has invested TL 4.181 of movable and immovable property and TL 2.500 of intangible assets. In the prior period, there is TL 152.380 investment on subsidiaries and affiliates. Information about disposal of associates, subsidiaries, and other investments In the current period, the Bank has generated a cash inflow of TL 3.277 on sale of movable fixed assets and properties (31 December 2018: TL 94). 300 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 301 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION FIVE (Continued) SECTION FIVE (Continued) EXPLANATIONS AND DISCLOSURES ON UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) EXPLANATIONS AND DISCLOSURES ON UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) VII. Explanations on the risk group of the Bank VII. Explanations on the risk group of the Bank( Continued) 1. Information on the volume of transactions related to the Bank’s own risk group, outstanding loan and deposit 3. Total salaries and similar benefits provided to the key management personnel transactions and income and expenses of the period Benefits provided to the key management personnel in the current period amount to TL 14.181 (31 December 2018: TL 1.a Current Period: 11.961). Subsidiaries and Direct and Indirect Other Entities Included VIII. Information and disclosures related to the domestic, foreign offshore branches and foreign representations of Associates Shareholders of the Bank In the Risk Group the Bank: Risk Group of the Bank Cash Non-cash Cash Non-cash Cash Non-cash Loans and Other Receivables 1. Domestic and foreign branches and representative offices Balance at Beginning of Period 437.232 262 102.776 59.858 Number of Balance at End of Period 545.560 27.938 118.394 39.529 Number Employees Interest and Commission Income 17.827 761 7.453 3.578 Domestic branches 2 375 Country of 1.b Prior Period: Incorporation Subsidiaries and Direct and Indirect Other Entities Included Foreign representations Associates Shareholders of the Bank In the risk Group Statutory Risk Group of the Bank Cash Non-cash Cash Non-cash Cash Non-cash Total Asset Share Capital Loans and Other Receivables Foreign branches Balance at Beginning of Period 257.470 262 76.931 Off-shore banking region branches Balance at End of Period 437.232 262 102.776 59.858 2. Explanation on opening, closing of a branch/agency of the Bank or changing its organizational structure Interest and Commission Income (1) 25.211 871 76 5.823 significantly (1) Includes 31 December 2018. In the current year, the Bank has not opened any branch or agency and there is no significant change in the organization 1.c Information on deposit held by Bank’s own risk group: structure of the Bank’s operating branches. The Bank is not authorized to accept deposits. In the prior period, the Bank has not opened any branch or agency and there is no significant change in the organization structure of the Bank’s operating branches. 2. Information on forward, option and other similar agreements made with Bank’s own risk group Subsidiaries and Direct and Indirect Other Entities Included Associates Shareholders of the Bank in the Risk Group Risk Group of Current Current Current the Bank Period Prior Period Period Prior Period Period Prior Period Fair Value Through Profit or Loss Transactions Beginning of the Period 364.732 444.536 131.758 End of the Period 364.732 131.758 Total Profit/Loss (20.179) (356.617) (2.231) (1.906) Hedging Risk Transactions Beginning of the Period End of the Period Total Profit/Loss (*) Prior Period includes informations about 31 December 2018. 302 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 303 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION SIX SECTION SIX (Continued) OTHER EXPLANATIONS OTHER EXPLANATIONS (Continued) I. Other explanations related to operations of the Bank I. Other explanations related to operations of the Bank (Continued) 1.a Brief information related to ratings carried out by international rating firms: 1.b Informations on corporate governance rating of the Bank: FITCH RATINGS SAHA Kurumsal Yönetim ve Kredi Derecelendirme Hizmetleri A.Ş. (SAHA Corporate Governance and Credit Rating Services A.Ş.), a corporate governance rating institution with Capital Markets Board license, updated the Bank’s corporate governance Long-term Maturity Foreign Currency (issuer) B+ rating of 95,58% (9,56 over 10) as of 18 October 2019. Ratings under the main topics of weighted Shareholders, Public Long-term Maturity Foreign Currency Outlook (issuer) Stable Disclosure and Transparency, Stakeholders and Board of Directors are declared as; 9,51 (Weight: 25%), 9,70 (Weight: 25%), Short-term Maturity Foreign Currency (issuer) B 9,85 (Weight: 15%), 9,37 (Weight: 35%) over 10 respectively. Long-term Maturity National Currency (issuer) BBII. Other explanations related to the events after the reporting date Long-term Maturity National Currency Outlook (issuer) Stable The Bank issued debt instrument in abroad which have nominal value of full USD 400 Million. The redemption date of the Short-term Maturity National Currency (issuer) B fixed-rate,5-year bond, which was sold on 23 January 2020, was determined as 23 January 2025 and the coupon rate was 6%. Support Note 4 SECTION SEVEN Support Note Base B+ AUDITORS’ REPORT National Note AA National Note Outlook Stable I. Explanations on the auditors’ report Subordinated Debt Rating Note B Financial Capacity Note b+ The unconsolidated financial statements for the period ended 31 December 2019 have been audited by Güney Bağımsız Denetim ve Serbest Muhasebeci Mali Müşavirlik A.Ş. (A member firm of Ernst & Young Global Limited). The independent International credit rating agency Fitch Ratings confirmed the Bank’s ratings and outlook on 12 November 2019 and auditor’s audit report dated 3 February 2020 is presented preceding the financial statements. determined Bank’s “Financial Capacity Note’’ II. Explanations and notes prepared by independent auditors MOODY’S There are no other explanations and notes not expressed in sections above related with the Bank’s operations. Reference Financial Rating Note caal Foreign Currency (issuer) Long-term Maturity B3 Outlook Negative Short-term Maturity NP Domestic Currency (issuer) Long-term Maturity B3 Outlook Negative Short-term Maturity NP Unsecured Debt-Foreign Currency Long-term Maturity B3 Outlook Negative Foreign Currency/Domestic Currency MTN Note: (P) B3 Information above represents updated information as of 18 June 2019. 304 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 305 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S AUDIT REPORT, CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2019 (Convenience translation of unconsolidated financial statements and independent auditor’s audit report originally issued in Turkish, See Note I. of Section three) To the General Assembly of Türkiye Sınai Kalkınma Bankası A.Ş. Audit of Consolidated Financial Statements Qualified Opinion We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Türkiye Sınai Kalkınma Bankası A.Ş. (the Bank) and its subsidiaries (the Group), which comprise the consolidated statement of financial position as at 31 December 2019 and the consolidated statement of profit or loss, consolidated statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income, consolidated statement of changes in equity and consolidated statement of cash flows for the year then ended, and notes to the consolidated financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies. In our opinion, except for the effects of the matter on the consolidated financial statements described in the Basis for Qualified Opinion paragraph, the accompanying consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Türkiye Sınai Kalkınma Bankası A.Ş (the Bank) and its subsidiaries as at 31 December 2019 and consolidated financial performance and consolidated its cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with the Banking Regulation and Supervision Agency (“BRSA”) Accounting and Financial Reporting Legislation which includes “Regulation on Accounting Applications for Banks and Safeguarding of Documents” published in the Official Gazette no.26333 dated 1 November 2006, and other regulations on accounting records of Banks published by Banking Regulation and Supervision Agency and circulars and interpretations published by BRSA and Financial Reporting Standards (“TFRS”) for those matters not regulated by the aforementioned regulations. Basis for Qualified Opinion As explained in Note 7 in the Explanations and Disclosures related to the Liabilities, the accompanying unconsolidated financial statements as at 31 December 2019 include a free provision at an amount of TL 220.000 thousands, was provided in prior years respectively by the Bank management, for the possible effects of the negative circumstances which may arise in the economy or market conditions. Due to the fact that the above mentioned items do not meet the requirements of TAS 37, the “Prior Years’ Profit/Loss” as of 31 December 2019 is understated by TL 220.000 thousands. Our audit was conducted in accordance with “Regulation on independent audit of the Banks” published in the Official Gazette no.29314 dated 2 April 2015 by BRSA (BRSA Independent Audit Regulation) and Independent Auditing Standards (“ISA”) which are the part of Turkish Auditing Standards issued by the Public Oversight Accounting and Auditing Standards Authority (“POA”). Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements section of our report. We are independent of the Group in accordance with of Code of Ethics for Independent Auditors (Code of Ethics) published by POA and have fulfilled our other responsibilities in accordance with the code of ethics. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our qualified opinion. Key Audit Matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the consolidated financial statements of the current period. Key audit matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the consolidated financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. In addition to the matter described in the Basis for Qualified Opinion section we have determined the matters described below to be the key audit matters to be communicated in our report. 306 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 307 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT Key Audit Matter How the matter is addressed in our audit Pension Fund Obligations Related important disclosures about recognition of Employees of the Parent Bank are members of “TSKB It has been addressed whether there have been any impairment on financial assets in accordance with TFRS 9 A.Ş. Memur ve Müstahdemleri Yardım ve Emekli Vakfı”, significant changes in regulations governing pension (“the Fund”), which is established in accordance with the liabilities, employee benefits plans during the period, that As presented in Section 3 disclosure IX the Bank recognizes Our audit procedures included among others include: temporary Article 20 of the Social Security Act No. 506 and could lead to adjust the valuation of employee benefits. expected credit losses of financial assets in accordance Evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies as related regulations. The Fund is a separate legal entity and with TFRS 9 “Financial Instruments”. We considered the to the requirements of TFRS 9, Group’s past experience, foundation recognized by an official decree, providing all Support from actuarial expert who is in the same audit impairment of financial assets as a key audit matter since: local and global practices. qualified employees with pension and post-retirement network within our firm, has been taken to assess the Amount of on and off balance sheet items that are Reviewing and testing of new or structured processes benefits. As disclosed in Section Three Note XVII the appropriateness of the actuarial assumptions and subject to expected credit loss calculation is material to which are used to calculate expected credit losses by “Explanations on Liabilities regarding employee benefits” calculations performed by the external actuary. We further the financial statements involving our Information technology and Process audit to the financial statements, Banks will transfer their pension focused on the accuracy and adequacy of the deficit and There are complex and comprehensive requirements of specialists. fund to the Social Security Institution and the Council of also disclosures on key assumptions related to pension TFRS 9 Ministers has been authorized to determine the transfer fund. Evaluating the reasonableness of management’s date. The classification of the financial assets is based on key judgements, estimates and data sources used the Group’s business model and characteristics of the in expected credit loss calculations considering the The Parent Bank’s present value of the liabilities of TSKB contractual cash flows in accordance with TFRS 9 and standard requirements, sectorial, local and global A.Ş. Memur ve Müstahdemleri Yardım ve Emekli Vakfı fund, the Group uses significant judgment on the assessment practices subject to the transfer to the Social Security Institution of the business model and identification of the complex Reviewing the appropriateness of criteria in order to of the Pension Fund as of 31 December 2019 has been contractual cash flow characteristics of financial identify the financial assets having solely payments of calculated by an independent actuary in accordance with instruments. principal and interest and checking the compliance to the actuarial assumptions in the Law and as per actuarial The Group determines the fair value of financial assets the Group’s Business model report dated 17 January 2020, there is no need for technical measured at fair value by level 3 related business model Examining the financial instruments classification and or actual deficit to book provision as of 31 December 2019. category non-observable in fair value measurement due measurement models (fair value hierarchy Level 3 to the existence of significant estimates and assumptions financial instruments) and comparing them with TFRS 9 The valuation of the Pension Fund liabilities requires determination standard requirements judgment in determining appropriate assumptions such Policies implemented by the Group management include as defining the transferrable social benefits, discount rates, Assessing the appropriateness of definition of significant salary increases, demographic assumptions, inflation rate compliance risk to the regulations and other practices. increase in credit risk, default criteria, modification, estimates and the impact of any changes in individual New or re-structured processes of TFRS 9 are advanced probability of default, loss given default, exposure at pension plans. The Parent Bank Management uses Fund and complex. default and forward looking assumptions together actuaries to assist in assessing these assumptions. Judgements and estimates used in expected credit loss with the significant judgements and estimates used calculation are new, complex and comprehensive. in these calculations to regulations and bank’s past Considering the subjectivity of key assumptions and performance. Evaluating the alignment of those forward estimate used in the calculations of transferrable liabilities Disclosure requirements of TFRS 9 are comprehensive looking parameters to Group’s internal processes where and the effects of the potential changes in the estimates and complex applicable. used together with the uncertainty around the transfer Assessing the completeness and the accuracy of the data date and given the fact that technical interest rate is used for expected credit loss calculation prescribed under the law, we considered this to be a key Testing the mathematical accuracy of expected credit audit matter. loss calculation on sample basis Evaluating the judgments and estimates used for the individually assessed financial assets Evaluating the accuracy and the necessity of post-model adjustments Auditing of TFRS 9 disclosures 308 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 309 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT As part of an audit in accordance with BRSA Independent Audit Regulation and ISAs, we exercise professional judgement and Derivative Financial Instruments maintain professional skepticism throughout the audit. We also: Derivative financial instruments including foreign exchange Our audit procedures involve obtaining written Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or contracts, currency and interest rate swaps, currency confirmations from the third parties and comparing the error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and and interest rate options, futures and other derivative details of the related derivative transactions. Our audit appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. (The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is financial instruments which are held for trading are initially procedures included among others involve reviewing higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, recognized on the statement of financial position at fair policies regarding fair value measurement accepted by the or the override of internal control.) value and subsequently are re-measured at their fair value. bank management fair value calculations of the selected Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate Details of related amounts are explained in Section Five derivative financial instruments which is carried out by in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Bank’s internal control. Note I.2.c Positive differences related to derivative financial valuation experts in our audit team and the assessment Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related assets and Section Five Note II.2 Negative differences of used estimations and the judgements and testing disclosures made by management. related to derivative financial liabilities held-for-trading operating effectiveness of the key controls in the process of disclosures. fair value determination. Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on Fair value of the derivative financial instruments is Our procedures included, amongst others, recalculating the Bank’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw determined by selecting most convenient market data and fair value calculation and disclosures relating to derivative attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the consolidated financial statements or, if such disclosures applying valuation techniques to those particular derivative financial instruments considering the requirements of are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our products. Derivative Financial Instruments are considered Turkey Accounting Standards (“TAS”) and Turkey Financial auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Bank to cease to continue as a going concern. by us as a key audit matter because of the subjectivity in Reporting Standards (“TFRS”). Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the consolidated financial statements, including the disclosures, the estimates, assumptions and judgements used. and whether the financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation. Responsibilities of Management and Directors for the Consolidated Financial Statements Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities within the Group to express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements. We are responsible for the direction, supervision Group management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the consolidated financial statements in and performance of the Group audit. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion. accordance with the BRSA Accounting and Reporting Legislation and for such internal control as management determines is necessary to enable the preparation of the financial statement that is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the or error. audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit. In preparing the consolidated financial statements, management is responsible for assessing the Group’s ability to continue We also provide those charged with government with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought accounting unless management either intends to liquidate the Group or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards. but to do so. From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were of most Those charged with governance are responsible for overseeing the Group’s financial reporting process. significance in the audit of the consolidated financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report In an independent audit, the responsibilities of us as independent auditors are: because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication. Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with BRSA Independent Audit Regulation and ISAs will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these consolidated financial statements. 310 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 311 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL REPORT OF TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements Address: Meclis-i Mebusan Cad. No: 81 Fındıklı/Istanbul Telephone: (212) 334 51 94 1) In accordance with Article 402 paragraph 4 of the Turkish Commercial Code (“TCC”) ; no significant matter has come to Fax: (212) 334 52 34 our attention that causes us to believe that the Bank’s bookkeeping activities and financial statements for the period 1 January 31 December 2019 are not in compliance with the TCC and the Bank’s articles of association in relation to Website: www.tskb.com.tr financial reporting. E-mail: ir@tskb.com.tr 2) In accordance with Article 402 paragraph 4 of the TCC; the Board of Directors submitted to us the necessary explanations The consolidated financial report for year end includes the following sections in accordance with “Communiqué on the and provided required documents within the context of audit. Financial Statements and Related Explanations and Notes that will be made Publicly Announced” as sanctioned by the Banking Regulation and Supervision Agency. The engagement partner who supervised and concluded this independent auditor’s report is Yaşar Bivas. GENERAL INFORMATION ABOUT THE PARENT BANK Güney Bağımsız Denetim ve Serbest Muhasebeci Mali Müşavirlik Anonim Şirketi CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF THE PARENT BANK A member firm of Ernst & Young Global Limited EXPLANATIONS ON THE CORRESPONDING ACCOUNTING POLICIES APPLIED IN THE RELATED PERIOD INFORMATION ON FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT OF THE GROUP WHICH IS UNDER CONSOLIDATION EXPLANATORY DISCLOSURES AND FOOTNOTES ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER EXPLANATIONS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT The subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, financial statements of which are consolidated within the framework of the reporting package, are as follows. Yaşar Bivas, SMMM Partner Subsidiaries Associates 3 February 2020 Yatırım Finansman Menkul Değerler A.Ş. İş Finansal Kiralama A.Ş. İstanbul, Türkiye TSKB Gayrimenkul Yatırım Ortaklığı A.Ş. İş Girişim Sermayesi Yatırım Ortaklığı A.Ş. Yatırım Varlık Kiralama A.Ş. İş Faktoring A.Ş. The accompanying consolidated financial statements and the explanatory footnotes and disclosures for the year end, unless otherwise indicated, are prepared in thousands of Turkish Lira (“TL”), in accordance with the Communiqué on Banks’ Accounting Practice and Maintaining Documents, Turkish Accounting Standards, Turkish Financial Reporting Standards, related communiqués and the Banks’ records, and have been independently audited and presented as attached. 3 February 2020 H. Ersin ÖZİNCE Suat İNCE Ece BÖRÜ Tolga SERT Chairman of Board of Member of Board of Directors Executive Vice President in Head of Directors and General Manager Charge of Financial Reporting Financial Control Department Gamze YALÇIN Mehmet ŞENCAN Member of Audit Member of Audit Committee Committee Contact information of the personnel in charge for addressing questions about this financial report: Name-Surname/Title : Tolga Sert/Head of Financial Control Department Telephone Number : (212) 334 51 97 312 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 313 INDEX Page Number XVI. Explanations on provisions and contingent liabilities 350 SECTION ONE XVII. Explanations on liabilities regarding employee benefits 350 General Information XVIII. Explanations on taxation 352 I. The Parent Bank’s incorporation date, beginning status, changes in the existing status 316 XIX. Additional explanations on borrowings 353 II. Explanations regarding the Parent Bank’s shareholding structure, shareholders holding directly or indirectly, XX. Explanations on share certificates issued 353 collectively or individually, the managing and controlling power and changes in current year, if any and XXI. Explanations on acceptances 353 explanations on the controlling group of the Parent Bank 316 XXII. Explanations on government incentives 353 III. Explanations regarding the chairman and the members of board of directors, audit committee, XXIII. Explanations on segment reporting 353 general manager and assistant general managers and their shares and responsibilities in the Parent Bank 317 IV. Information about the persons and institutions that have qualified shares in the Parent Bank 318 SECTION FOUR V. Summary on the Parent Bank’s functions and areas of activity 318 Information on Financial Structure and Risk Management VI. Differences between the Communiqué on Preparation of Consolidated Financial Statements of Banks and I. Explanations related to consolidated shareholders’ equity 355 Turkish Accounting Standards and short explanation about the institution subject to line-by-line method or II. Explanations related to consolidated credit risk 360 proportional consolidation and institutions which are deducted from equity or not included in these III. Explanations related to consolidated currency risk 376 three methods 318 IV. Explanations related to consolidated interest rate risk 378 VII. The existing or potential, actual or legal obstacle on the transfer of shareholder’s equity between V. Explanations related to consolidated stock position risk 382 the Parent Bank and its subsidiaries or the reimbursement of liabilities 319 VI. Consolidated liquidity risk management and coverage ratio 384 VIII. Written policies of the Parent Bank related to compliance to publicly disclosed obligations of the Parent Bank and assessment of accuracy, frequency and compliance of mentioned disclosures 319 VII. Explanations related to consolidated leverage ratio 391 VII. Explanations related to consolidated leverage ratio 392 SECTION TWO VIII. Explanations related to presentation of financial assets and liabilities at fair value 393 Consolidated Financial Statements IX. Explanations related to transactions made on behalf of others and fiduciary transactions 395 I. Consolidated balance sheet 320 X. Explanations related to consolidated risk management 395 II. Consolidated statement of off-balance sheet items 322 III. Consolidated statement of profit or loss 324 SECTION FIVE IV. Consolidated statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income 325 Explanations and Disclosures on Consolidated Financial Statements V. Consolidated statement of changes in shareholders’ equity 326 I. Explanations and disclosures related to the consolidated assets 418 VI. Consolidated statement of cash flows 330 II. Explanations and disclosures related to the liabilities 447 VII. Consolidated statement of profit distribution 331 III. Explanations and disclosures related to the consolidated off-balance sheet items 455 IV. Explanations and disclosures related to the consolidated income statement 461 SECTION THREE IV. Explanations and disclosures related to the consolidated income statement 462 Accounting Policies V. Explanations related to consolidated statement of changes in shareholders’ equity 466 I. Basis of presentation 332 VI. Explanations related to consolidated statement of cash flows 466 II. Explanations on usage strategy of financial assets and foreign currency transactions 334 VI. Explanations related to consolidated statement of cash flows 467 III. Explanations on associates and subsidiaries 335 VII. Explanations on the risk group of the Parent Bank 468 IV. Explanations on forward and option contracts and derivative instruments 335 VIII. Information and disclosures related to the domestic, foreign offshore branches and foreign representations of V. Explanations on associates and subsidiaries 336 the Parent Bank 470 VI. Explanations on interest income and expenses 336 SECTION SIX VII. Explanations on fees and commission income and expenses 337 Other Explanations VIII. Explanations on financial assets 337 I. Other explanations related to the operations of the Parent Bank 471 IX. Explanations on impairment of financial assets 342 II. Other explanations related to the events after the reporting date 472 X. Explanations on offsetting, derecognition and restructuring of financial instruments 345 XI. Explanations on sales and repurchase agreements and lending of securities 347 SECTION SEVEN XII. Explanations on assets held for sale and discontinued operations 347 Auditors’ Report XIII. Explanations on goodwill and other intangible assets 348 I. Explanations on the auditors’ report 472 XIV. Explanations on tangible assets 348 II. Explanations and notes prepared by independent auditors 472 XV. Explanations on leasing transactions 349 314 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 315 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION ONE SECTION ONE (Continued) GENERAL INFORMATION GENERAL INFORMATION (Continued) I. The Parent Bank’s incorporation date, beginning status, changes in the existing status III. Explanations regarding the chairman and the members of board of directors, audit committee, general manager and assistant general managers and their shares and responsibilities in the Parent Bank Türkiye Sınai Kalkınma Bankası A.Ş. (“The Parent Bank”) was established in accordance with the decision of President of the Republic of Turkey numbered 3/11203 on 12 May 1950. This decision was declared by T.R. Office of Prime Ministry Procedures The Chairman and The Members of Board of Directors: Directorate Decision Management on 12 May 1950. Name Surname Title (1) H. Ersin Özince Chairman of the Board of Directors According to the classification set out in the Banking Law No: 5411, the status of the Parent Bank is “Development and Mehmet Şencan Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chairman of the Audit Committee Investment Bank”. The Parent Bank does not have the license of “Accepting Deposit”. Since the establishment date of the Parent Bank, there is no change in its “Development and Investment Bank” status. Suat İnce Member of the Board of Directors and General Manager Yavuz Canevi Member of the Board of Directors II. Explanations regarding the Parent Bank’s shareholding structure, shareholders holding directly or indirectly, Mithat Rende Member of the Board of Directors collectively or individually, the managing and controlling power and changes in current year, if any and explanations Zeynep Hansu Uçar Member of the Board of Directors on the controlling group of the Parent Bank Ahmet Hakan Ünal Member of the Board of Directors Türkiye İş Bankası A.Ş. has the authority of managing and controlling power of the Parent Bank directly or indirectly, alone or Abdi Serdar Üstünsalih (3) Member of the Board of Directors together with other shareholders. Shareholders of the Parent Bank are as follows: Gamze Yalçın (2) Member of the Board of Directors and Member of Audit Committee Hüseyin Yalçın Member of the Board of Directors Current Period Share Shareholding Paid in Unpaid Can Yücel Member of the Board of Directors Name Surname/Commercial Title Capital Rate (%) Capital Capital General Manager and Vice Presidents Name Surname Title/Area of Responsibility (4) T. İş Bankası A.Ş. Group 1.425.780 50,92 1.425.780 Suat İnce General Manager T. Vakıflar Bankası T.A.O. 234.570 8,38 234.570 Meral Murathan Executive Vice President Financial Institutions and Investor Relations, Development Finance Under Custody at Merkezi Kayıt Kuruluşu (Other Institutions Institutions and Individuals) 1.139.650 40,70 1.139.650 Aslı Zerrin Hancı Executive Vice President Treasury, Treasury & Capital Markets Operations, Loan Operations Total 2.800.000 100,00 2.800.000 Hasan Hepkaya Executive Vice President Corporate Banking Marketing, Corporate Banking Selling, Project Prior Period Share Shareholding Paid in Unpaid Finance, Corporate Communication Name Surname/Commercial Title Capital Rate (%) Capital Capital Ece Börü Executive Vice President Loan Allocation, Loan Monitoring, Loan Analysis, Financial Control, Budget Planning T. İş Bankası A.Ş. Group 1.425.780 50,92 1.425.780 Hakan Aygen Executive Vice President Corporate Finance, Economic Research, Engineering and Technical T. Vakıflar Bankası T.A.O. 234.570 8,38 234.570 Consultancy, Financial Consultancy, Business Development and Consultancy Management Under Custody at Merkezi Kayıt Kuruluşu (Other Office Departments Institutions and Individuals) 1.139.650 40,70 1.139.650 H. Yetkin Kesler Executive Vice President Pension and Assistance Funds, Human Resources, Enterprise Total 2.800.000 100,00 2.800.000 Architecture and Process Management, Corporate Compliance B. Gökhan Çanakpınar Executive Vice President Support Services, System & Network Support, Application The Parent Bank shares are traded in Istanbul Stock Exchange (“BIST”) since 26 December 1986. The Bank’s 50,92% of the Development shares belongs to İş Bank Group and 38,62% of these shares are in free floating and traded in BIST Star Market with “TSKB” A. Ferit Eraslan Executive Vice President Head of Board of Internal Auditors, Internal Control, Risk ticker. Management (1) The shares of above directors in The Bank are symbolic. (2) The Member of the Board of Directors Mrs. Ebru Özşuca resigned from her duty as a member of the Board of Directors. In the meeting of the Board of Directors held on 8 April 2019, it is decided that Mrs. Gamze Yalçın was elected to the vacant position of the Board of Directors in accordance with Article 363 of the Turkish Commercial Code. (3) The Member of the Board of Directors Mr. Mehmet Emin Özcan resigned from his duty as a member of the Board of Directors. In the meeting of the Board of Directors held on 14 June 2019, it is decided that Mr. Abdi Serdar Üstünsalih was elected to the vacant position of the Board of Directors in accordance with Article 363 of the Turkish Commercial Code. (4) Prepared according to the organization chart of the Bank dated 12 December 2019. According to the regulations on auditing in Articles 397-406 of the Turkish Commercial Code numbered 6102, Güney Bağımsız Denetim ve Serbest Muhasebeci Mali Müşavirlik A.Ş. has been elected as the independent auditor for the year 2019 in the General Assembly Meeting held on 28 March 2019. 316 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 317 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION ONE (Continued) SECTION ONE (Continued) GENERAL INFORMATION (Continued) GENERAL INFORMATION (Continued) IV. Information about the persons and institutions that have qualified shares in the Parent Bank VI. Differences between the Communiqué on Preparation of Consolidated Financial Statements of Banks and Turkish Accounting Standards and short explanation about the institution subject to line-by-line method or proportional Explanation about the people and institutions that have qualified shares control the Parent Bank’s capital directly or indirectly consolidation and institutions which are deducted from equity or not included in these three methods (Continued) are described in General Information Section II. TSKB Gayrimenkul Yatırım Ortaklığı A.Ş. : V. Summary on the Parent Bank’s functions and areas of activity TSKB Gayrimenkul Yatırım Ortaklığı A.Ş. (“TSKB GYO”) was established on 3 February 2006. Core business of the Company is Türkiye Sınai Kalkınma Bankası A.Ş. is the first private development and investment bank which was established by the real estate trust to construct and develop a portfolio of properties and make investment to capital market instruments linked Council of Ministers resolution number of 3/11203 established in 1950 with the support of World Bank, Government of to properties. The share of Türkiye Sınai Kalkınma Bankası A.Ş. is 88,67%. The company’s headquarters is located at Istanbul/ Republic of Turkey, Central Bank of Republic of Turkey and commercial banks. As per the articles of association published Turkey. in the Official Gazette on 2 June 1950, the aim of the Parent Bank is to support all private sector investments but mostly industrial sectors, to help domestic and foreign capital owners to finance the new firms and to help the improvement Yatırım Varlık Kiralama A.Ş. : of Turkish capital markets. The Parent Bank is succeeding its aims by financing, consulting, giving technical support and financial intermediary services. The Parent Bank, which operates as a non-deposit accepting bank, played a major role on Yatırım Varlık Kiralama A.Ş. was established on 20 September 2019. Core business of the Company is to issue a lease certificate manufacturing and finance sectors in every phase of the economic development of Turkey. The Parent Bank started its exclusively in accordance with the provisions of the Capital Market Law and the relevant Communiqué. The share of Yatırım journey in 1950 financing the private sector investments in Turkey and today it provides loans and project finance with the Finansman Menkul Değerler A.Ş. is 100%. goal of sustainable development to corporations in different fields. As a leader in meeting the long term financing needs of İş Finansal Kiralama A.Ş. : the private sector, the Parent Bank also continues to offer solutions with respect to the newest needs and client demands. İş Finansal Kiralama A.Ş. (“İş Finansal Kiralama”) was established on 8 February 1988. The Company has been performing its VI. Differences between the Communiqué on Preparation of Consolidated Financial Statements of Banks and Turkish operations in accordance with the Financial Leasing, Factoring and Financing Companies Law No 6361. The purpose of the Accounting Standards and short explanation about the institution subject to line-by-line method or proportional Company is performing domestic and foreign financial leasing activities and all kind of rental (leasing) transactions within the consolidation and institutions which are deducted from equity or not included in these three methods framework of legislation. The share of Türkiye Sınai Kalkınma Bankası A.Ş. is 29,46%. The Company’s headquarters is located at Due to differences between the Communiqué on Preparation of Consolidated Financial Statements of Banks and Turkish Istanbul/Turkey. Account Standards (TAS), the non-financial subsidiaries and associates, TSKB Gayrimenkul Değerleme A.Ş., Terme Metal Sanayi İş Faktoring A.Ş. : ve Ticaret A.Ş., Ege Tarım Ürünleri Lisanslı Depoculuk A.Ş., TSKB Sürdürülebilirlik Danışmanlığı A.Ş. and Anavarza Otelcilik Anonim Şirketi are not consolidated since they are not in scope of financial institutions according to related Communiqué. İş Faktoring A.Ş. (“İş Faktoring”), was incorporated in Turkey on 4 July 1993 and it has been performing its operations in accordance with the Financial Leasing, Factoring and Financing Companies Law No: 6361. The Company’s main operation Türkiye Sınai Kalkınma Bankası A.Ş. and its financial institutions, Yatırım Finansman Menkul Değerler A.Ş., TSKB Gayrimenkul is domestic and export factoring transactions. The share of Türkiye Sınai Kalkınma Bankası A.Ş. is 21,75%. The company’s Yatırım Ortaklığı A.Ş. and Yatırım Varlık Kiralama A.Ş. are included in the accompanying consolidated financial statements by headquarters is located at Istanbul/Turkey. line by line consolidation method; İş Finansal Kiralama A.Ş., İş Girişim Sermayesi Yatırım Ortaklığı A.Ş. and İş Faktoring A.Ş. are included in the accompanying consolidated financial statements by equity method. İş Girişim Sermayesi Yatırım Ortaklığı A.Ş. : Financial institutions included in the consolidation are determined in accordance with “Communiqué on Preparation of İş Girişim Sermayesi Yatırım Ortaklığı A.Ş (“İş Girişim”) started its venture capital operations by the decision of Capital Market Consolidated Financial Statements of Banks” published in the Official Gazette dated 8 November 2006 numbered 26340. Board dated 5 October 2000. The principal activity of the Company is to perform long-term investments to venture capital companies mainly established or to be established in Turkey, have development potential and require resource. The share of Yatırım Finansman Menkul Değerler A.Ş. : Türkiye Sınai Kalkınma Bankası A.Ş. is 16,67%. The Company’s headquarters is located at Istanbul/Turkey. Yatırım Finansman Menkul Değerler A.Ş. (“YF”) was established in 15 October 1976. The Company’s purpose is to perform VII. The existing or potential, actual or legal obstacle on the transfer of shareholder’s equity between the Parent Bank capital market operations specified in the Company’s articles of association in accordance with the CMB and the related and its subsidiaries or the reimbursement of liabilities legislation. The Company was merged with TSKB Menkul Değerler A.Ş. on 29 December 2006. The share of Türkiye Sınai Kalkınma Bankası A.Ş. is 95,78%. The company’s headquarters is located at Istanbul/Turkey. There is no existing or potential, actual or legal obstacle to the reimbursement of liabilities between the Parent Bank and its subsidiaries. The Parent Bank charge or pay cost of the services according to the service agreements done between the Parent Bank and its subsidiaries. Dividend distribution from shareholders’ equity is made according to related legal regulations. VIII. Written policies of the Parent Bank related to compliance to publicly disclosed obligations of the Parent Bank and assessment of accuracy, frequency and compliance of mentioned disclosures The Parent Bank Disclosure Policy approved by the meeting of the Board of Directors has entered into force on 28 February 2014. Compliance to public disclosure obligations, frequency of public disclosures and tools and methods used for public disclosures are explained in the disclosure policy of the Parent Bank accessible from the Parent Bank’s corporate website. 318 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 319 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION) CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION) AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) Audited Audited Audited Audited Current Period Prior Period Current Period Prior Period 31 December 2019 31 December 2018 (*) 31 December 2019 31 December 2018 (*) Section 5 Section 5 ASSETS Note I TL FC Total TL FC Total LIABILITIES AND EQUITY Note II TL FC Total TL FC Total I. FINANCIAL ASSETS (NET) 3.417.606 3.597.087 7.014.693 3.595.512 3.227.870 6.823.382 I. DEPOSITS (1) 1.1 Cash and Cash Equivalents 539.386 1.047.785 1.587.171 616.183 1.507.389 2.123.572 II. FUNDS BORROWED (3) 635.639 25.992.686 26.628.325 127.007 23.692.663 23.819.670 1.1.1 Cash and Balances with Central Bank (1) 513 803.528 804.041 6.353 736.875 743.228 III. MONEY MARKET BALANCES 535.195 662.172 1.197.367 264.820 137.458 402.278 1.1.2 Banks (3) 12.973 244.719 257.692 36.469 770.762 807.231 IV. MARKETABLE SECURITIES ISSUED (Net) (3) 253.918 6.023.450 6.277.368 6.949.189 6.949.189 1.1.3 Money Market Placements 526.286 526.286 573.613 573.613 4.1 Bills 108.662 108.662 1.1.4 Expected Credit Losses (-) 386 462 848 252 248 500 4.2 Assets Backed Securities 145.256 145.256 1.2 Financial Assets at Fair Value Through Profit or Loss (2) 15.821 263.097 278.918 9.859 290.660 300.519 4.3 Bonds 6.023.450 6.023.450 6.949.189 6.949.189 1.2.1 Government Debt Securities 8 8 V. BORROWER FUNDS 2.494 56.456 58.950 2.408 30.121 32.529 1.2.2 Equity Instruments 1 1 1 1 5.1 Borrower Funds 2.494 56.456 58.950 2.408 30.121 32.529 1.2.3 Other Financial Assets 15.820 263.097 278.917 9.850 290.660 300.510 5.2 Other 1.3 Financial Assets at Fair Value Through Other VI. FINANCIAL LIABILITIES AT FAIR VALUE THROUGH Comprehensive Income (4) 2.209.134 1.977.139 4.186.273 2.212.256 1.207.814 3.420.070 PROFIT OR LOSS 1.3.1 Government Debt Securities 2.001.291 1.922.143 3.923.434 2.008.419 1.165.034 3.173.453 VII. DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL LIABILITIES (2) 277.424 207.410 484.834 442.290 350.050 792.340 1.3.2 Equity Instruments 62.763 53.806 116.569 52.251 41.778 94.029 7.1 Derivative Financial Liabilities at Fair Value Through Profit or Loss 277.424 207.410 484.834 442.290 350.050 792.340 1.3.3 Other Financial Assets 145.080 1.190 146.270 151.586 1.002 152.588 7.2 Derivative Financial Liabilities at Fair Value Through Other 1.4 Derivative Financial Assets (2) 653.265 309.066 962.331 757.214 222.007 979.221 Comprehensive Income 1.4.1 Derivative Financial Assets at Fair Value Through Profit or VIII. FACTORING LIABILITIES Loss 653.265 309.066 962.331 757.214 222.007 979.221 IX. LEASE LIABILITIES (5) 4.913 4.913 1.4.2 Derivative Financial Assets at Fair Value Through Other X. PROVISIONS (7) 242.096 22.070 264.166 250.984 10.292 261.276 Comprehensive Income 10.1 Restructuring Provisions II. FINANCIAL ASSETS MEASURED AT AMORTIZED COST 10.2 Reverse for Employee Benefits 18.095 18.095 15.054 15.054 (NET) 6.757.111 26.586.973 33.344.084 5.716.919 23.989.476 29.706.395 10.3 Insurance Technical Provisions (Net) 2.1 Loans (5) 4.750.439 26.766.177 31.516.616 4.083.334 23.851.985 27.935.319 10.4 Other Provisions 224.001 22.070 246.071 235.930 10.292 246.222 2.2 Lease Receivables (10) 128.874 128.874 133.929 133.929 XI. CURRENT TAX LIABILITY (8) 83.358 83.358 94.104 94.104 2.3 Factoring Receivables XII. DEFERRED TAX LIABILITY (8) 2.4 Other Financial Assets Measured at Amortized Cost (6) 2.285.894 299.266 2.585.160 1.735.521 419.420 2.154.941 XIII. LIABILITIES FOR PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT HELD FOR 2.4.1 Government Debt Securities 2.285.894 299.266 2.585.160 1.735.521 419.420 2.154.941 SALE AND RELATED TO DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS 2.4.2 Other Financial Assets (Net) 2.5 Expected Credit Losses (-) 279.222 607.344 886.566 101.936 415.858 517.794 13.1 Held for Sale Purpose III. PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT HELD FOR SALE PURPOSE 13.2 Related to Discontinued Operations AND RELATED TO DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS (NET) (16) 64.403 64.403 1 1 XIV. SUBORDINATED DEBT INSTRUMENTS (10) 1.830.045 1.830.045 1.549.774 1.549.774 3.1 Held for Sale Purpose 64.403 64.403 1 1 14.1 Loans 3.2 Related to Discontinued Operations 14.2 Other Debt Instruments 1.830.045 1.830.045 1.549.774 1.549.774 IV. EQUITY INVESTMENTS 473.335 473.335 435.915 435.915 XV. OTHER LIABILITIES 158.620 86.076 244.696 137.603 46.601 184.204 4.1 Investments in Associates (Net) (7) 465.976 465.976 429.546 429.546 XVI. SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY 5.182.346 (3.357) 5.178.989 4.253.510 (69.434) 4.184.076 4.1.1 Accounted Under Equity Method 464.920 464.920 428.490 428.490 16.1 Paid-in capital (11) 2.800.000 2.800.000 2.800.000 2.800.000 4.1.2 Unconsolidated Associates 1.056 1.056 1.056 1.056 16.2 Capital Reserves 904 904 890 890 4.2 Subsidiaries (Net) (8) 5.109 5.109 4.609 4.609 16.2.1 Share Premium 530 530 516 516 4.2.1 Unconsolidated Financial Subsidiaries 16.2.2 Share Cancellation Profits 4.2.2 Unconsolidated Non-Financial Subsidiaries 5.109 5.109 4.609 4.609 16.2.3 Other Capital Reserves 374 374 374 374 4.3 Entities under Common Control (Joint Venture) (Net) 2.250 2.250 1.760 1.760 16.3 Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income or Loss Not 4.3.1 Joint Ventures Valued Based on Equity Method Reclassified Through Profit or Loss 337.134 (147) 336.987 278.614 5.756 284.370 4.3.2 Unconsolidated Joint Ventures 2.250 2.250 1.760 1.760 16.4 Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income or Loss V. TANGIBLE ASSETS (Net) (12) 347.206 347.206 292.651 292.651 Reclassified Through Profit or Loss 75.403 (3.210) 72.193 (64.373) (75.190) (139.563) VI. INTANGIBLE ASSETS (Net) (13) 5.074 5.074 4.872 4.872 16.5 Profit Reserves 1.226.589 1.226.589 529.059 529.059 6.1 Goodwill 1.005 1.005 1.005 1.005 16.5.1 Legal Reserves 306.633 306.633 272.773 272.773 6.2 Other 4.069 4.069 3.867 3.867 16.5.2 Status Reserves 75.641 75.641 75.641 75.641 VII. INVESTMENT PROPERTY (Net) (14) 273.918 273.918 247.793 247.793 16.5.3 Extraordinary Reserves 841.395 841.395 177.725 177.725 VIII. CURRENT TAX ASSET 255 255 3.575 3.575 16.5.4 Other Profit Reserves 2.920 2.920 2.920 2.920 IX. DEFERRED TAX ASSET (15) 39.930 39.930 3.844 3.844 16.6 Profit Or Loss 704.226 704.226 670.698 670.698 X. OTHER ASSETS (Net) (17) 289.966 400.147 690.113 99.968 651.044 751.012 16.6.1 Prior Years’ Profit/Loss (26.278) (26.278) (58) (58) 16.6.2 Current Year Profit/Loss 730.504 730.504 670.756 670.756 16.7 Non-Controlling Interests 38.090 38.090 38.622 38.622 TOTAL ASSETS 11.668.804 30.584.207 42.253.011 10.401.050 27.868.390 38.269.440 (*) The necessary reclassifications have been made in the prior year’s financial statements in order to be comparable with the current period financial statements in the TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY 7.376.003 34.877.008 42.253.011 5.572.726 32.696.714 38.269.440 new financial statements format published by the Banking Regulation and Supervision Agency (“BRSA”) on 1 February 2019. (*) The necessary reclassifications have been made in the prior year’s financial statements in order to be comparable with the current period financial statements in the new financial statements format published by the Banking Regulation and Supervision Agency (“BRSA”) on 1 February 2019. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 320 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 321 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF OFF-BALANCE SHEET CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF OFF-BALANCE SHEET AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) Audited Audited Audited Audited Current Period Prior Period Current Period Prior Period 31 December 2019 31 December 2018 31 December 2019 31 December 2018 Section 5 Section 5 OFF-BALANCE SHEET Note III TL FC Total TL FC Total OFF-BALANCE SHEET Note III TL FC Total TL FC Total A. OFF-BALANCE SHEET COMMITMENTS AND 3.2.2 Swap Transactions Related to Foreign CONTINGENCIES (I+II+III) 8.650.964 56.620.778 65.271.742 10.490.917 55.046.934 65.537.851 Currency and Interest Rate 3.283.114 29.261.907 32.545.021 4.415.005 27.012.656 31.427.661 I. GUARANTEES AND COLLATERALS (1) 450.734 4.096.982 4.547.716 487.945 2.685.862 3.173.807 3.2.2.1 Foreign Currency Swap-Buy 664.611 6.474.510 7.139.121 982.222 6.479.239 7.461.461 1.1 Letters of Guarantee 450.734 1.368.294 1.819.028 487.945 1.095.048 1.582.993 3.2.2.2 Foreign Currency Swap-Sell 2.618.503 4.090.143 6.708.646 3.432.783 3.821.411 7.254.194 1.1.1 Guarantees Subject to State Tender Law 3.2.2.3 Interest Rate Swap-Buy 9.348.627 9.348.627 8.356.003 8.356.003 1.1.2 Guarantees Given for Foreign Trade Operations 3.2.2.4 Interest Rate Swap-Sell 9.348.627 9.348.627 8.356.003 8.356.003 1.1.3 Other Letters of Guarantee 450.734 1.368.294 1.819.028 487.945 1.095.048 1.582.993 3.2.3 Foreign Currency, Interest Rate, and 1.2 Bank Acceptances 190.447 190.447 Securities Options 888.022 887.778 1.775.800 2.563.980 2.704.528 5.268.508 1.2.1 Import Letter of Acceptance 190.447 190.447 3.2.3.1 Foreign Currency Options-Buy 444.061 443.889 887.950 1.281.990 1.352.264 2.634.254 1.2.2 Other Bank Acceptance 3.2.3.2 Foreign Currency Options-Sell 443.961 443.889 887.850 1.281.990 1.352.264 2.634.254 1.3 Letters of Credit 2.538.241 2.538.241 1.590.814 1.590.814 3.2.3.3 Interest Rate Options-Buy 1.3.1 Documantery Letters of Credit 2.538.241 2.538.241 1.590.814 1.590.814 3.2.3.4 Interest Rate Options-Sell 1.3.2 Other Letters of Credit 3.2.3.5 Securities Options-Buy 1.4 Prefinancing Given as Guarantee 3.2.3.6 Securities Options-Sell 1.5 Endorsements 3.2.4 Foreign Currency Futures 1.5.1 Endorsements to the Central Bank of Turkey 3.2.4.1 Foreign Currency Futures-Buy 1.5.2 Other Endorsements 3.2.4.2 Foreign Currency Futures-Sell 1.6 Securities Issue Purchase Guarantees 3.2.5 Interest Rate Futures 1.7 Factoring Guarantees 3.2.5.1 Interest Rate Futures-Buy 1.8 Other Guarantess 3.2.5.2 Interest Rate Futures-Sell 1.9 Other Collaterals 3.2.6 Other 13.401 13.401 II. COMMITMENTS (1) 1.313.799 3.181.266 4.495.065 1.204.053 2.621.343 3.825.396 B. CUSTODY AND PLEDGES SECURITIES 2.1 Irrevocable Commitments 968.090 336.269 1.304.359 967.278 358.418 1.325.696 (IV+V+VI) 75.378.722 466.258.507 541.637.229 70.908.800 361.697.865 432.606.665 2.1.1 Forward Asset Purchase and Sale Commitments 4.506 16.898 21.404 29.356 67.684 97.040 IV. ITEMS HELD IN CUSTODY 2.730.641 688.583 3.419.224 1.476.393 268.838 1.745.231 2.1.2 Forward Deposit Purchase and Sales Commitments 4.1 Customers’ Securities Held 2.1.3 Share Capital Commitments to Associates and 4.2 Investment Securities Held in Custody 2.136.470 688.583 2.825.053 1.425.034 268.019 1.693.053 Subsidiaries 96.782 96.782 400 97.405 97.805 4.3 Checks Received for Collection 248 248 130 130 2.1.4 Loan Granting Commitments 4.4 Commercial Notes Received for Collection 819 819 2.1.5 Securities Underwriting Commitments 4.5 Other Assets Received for Collection 2.1.6 Commitments for Reserve Deposit Requirements 4.6 Assets Received for Public Offering 2.1.7 Payment Commitment for Checks 4.7 Other Items Under Custody 2.1.8 Tax and Fund Liabilities from Export Commitments 4.8 Custodians 593.923 593.923 51.229 51.229 2.1.9 Commitments for Credit Card Expenditure Limits V. PLEDGES ITEMS 52.958.989 254.620.688 307.579.677 50.395.754 208.822.385 259.218.139 2.1.10 Commitments for Promotions Related with Credit Cards 5.1 Marketable Securities 471.248 13.784.545 14.255.793 484.248 12.637.631 13.121.879 and Banking Activities 5.2 Guarantee Notes 95.499 3.691.702 3.787.201 72.835 3.180.176 3.253.011 2.1.11 Receivables from Short Sale Commitments 5.3 Commodity 2.1.12 Payables for Short Sale Commitments 5.4 Warranty 2.1.13 Other Irrevocable Commitments 963.584 222.589 1.186.173 937.522 193.329 1.130.851 5.5 Real Estate 3.805.808 63.849.083 67.654.891 3.232.731 56.825.467 60.058.198 2.2 Revocable Commitments 345.709 2.844.997 3.190.706 236.775 2.262.925 2.499.700 5.6 Other Pledged Items 48.586.434 173.295.358 221.881.792 46.605.940 136.179.111 182.785.051 2.2.1 Revocable Loan Granting Commitments 345.709 2.844.997 3.190.706 236.775 2.262.925 2.499.700 5.7 Pledged Items-Depository 2.2.2 Other Revocable Commitments VI. ACCEPTED BILL OF EXCHANGE AND III. DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (2) 6.886.431 49.342.530 56.228.961 8.798.919 49.739.729 58.538.648 COLLATERALS 19.689.092 210.949.236 230.638.328 19.036.653 152.606.642 171.643.295 3.1 Derivative Financial Instruments for Hedging Purposes 16.520.430 16.520.430 18.028.129 18.028.129 TOTAL OFF BALANCE SHEET ITEMS (A+B) 84.029.686 522.879.285 606.908.971 81.399.717 416.744.799 498.144.516 3.1.1 Fair Value Hedge 16.520.430 16.520.430 18.028.129 18.028.129 3.1.2 Cash Flow Hedge 3.1.3 Hedge of Net Investment in Foreign Operations 3.2 Held for Trading Transactions 6.886.431 32.822.100 39.708.531 8.798.919 31.711.600 40.510.519 3.2.1 Forward Foreign Currency Buy/Sell Transactions 2.715.295 2.672.415 5.387.710 1.819.934 1.981.015 3.800.949 3.2.1.1 Forward Foreign Currency Transactions-Buy 1.359.615 1.335.965 2.695.580 974.149 964.311 1.938.460 3.2.1.2 Forward Foreign Currency Transactions-Sell 1.355.680 1.336.450 2.692.130 845.785 1.016.704 1.862.489 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 322 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 323 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF PROFIT OR LOSS CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF PROFIT OR LOSS AND OTHER COMPREHENSIVE AT 31 DECEMBER 2019 INCOME FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) Audited Audited Current Period Prior Period Audited Audited Section 5 1 January 2019 1 January 2018 Current Period Prior Period STATEMENT OF PROFIT OR LOSS Note IV 31 December 2019 31 December 2018(*) 1 January 2019 1 January 2018 I. INTEREST INCOME (1) 3.313.001 3.110.109 PROFIT OR LOSS AND OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 31 December 2019 31 December 2018 1.1 Interest on Loans 2.260.048 2.133.352 1.2 Interest Received from Reserve Deposits 7.101 10.258 1.3 Interest Received from Banks 60.321 78.878 I. CURRENT PERIOD INCOME/LOSS 736.141 663.263 1.4 Interest Received from Money Market Placements 290.429 107.098 1.5 Interest Received from Marketable Securities Portfolio 670.421 762.490 II. OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 264.373 (64.978) 1.5.1 Fair Value Through Profit or Loss 1.327 1.514 2.1 Not Reclassified Through Profit or Loss 52.617 52.250 1.5.2 Fair Value Through other Comprehensive Income 442.296 358.776 1.5.3 Measured at Amortized Cost 226.798 402.200 2.1.1 Property and Equipment Revaluation Increase/Decrease 49.105 47.172 1.6 Finance Lease Income 6.406 6.060 1.7 Other Interest Income 18.275 11.973 2.1.2 Intangible Assets Revaluation Increase/Decrease II. INTEREST EXPENSES (-) (2) 1.401.717 1.381.391 2.1.3 Defined Benefit Pension Plan Remeasurement Gain/Loss (1.034) (684) 2.1 Interest on Deposits 2.2 Interest on Funds Borrowed 669.318 581.108 2.1.4 Other Comprehensive Income Items Not Reclassified Through Profit or 2.3 Interest on Money Market Borrowings 157.818 307.521 Loss 4.339 7.639 2.4 Interest on Securities Issued 565.831 491.351 2.5 Leasing Interest Expense 1.143 2.1.5 Tax Related Other Comprehensive Income Items Not Reclassified 2.6 Other Interest Expense 7.607 1.411 Through Profit or Loss 207 (1.877) III. NET INTEREST INCOME (I II) 1.911.284 1.728.718 IV. NET FEES AND COMMISSIONS INCOME/EXPENSES 65.103 51.398 2.2 Reclassified Through Profit or Loss 211.756 (117.228) 4.1 Fees and Commissions Received 78.154 63.929 4.1.1 Non-cash Loans 24.400 20.932 2.2.1 Foreign Currency Translation Differences 5.010 7.857 4.1.2 Other 53.754 42.997 2.2.2 Valuation and/or Reclassification Income/Expense of the Financial 4.2 Fees and Commissions Paid (-) 13.051 12.531 4.2.1 Non-cash Loans 2.916 2.876 Assets at Fair Value Through Other Comprehensive Income 243.694 (157.047) 4.2.2 Other 10.135 9.655 2.2.3 Cash Flow Hedge Income/Loss V. DIVIDEND INCOME (3) 6.754 5.525 VI. NET TRADING INCOME (4) (419.123) (329.200) 2.2.4 Income (Loss) Related with Hedges of Net Investments in Foreign 6.1 Securities Trading Gains/(Losses) 3.737 2.202 Operations 6.2 Derivative Financial Instruments Gains/Losses (489.078) (616.348) 6.3 Foreign Exchange Gains/Losses (Net) 66.218 284.946 2.2.5 Other Comprehensive Income Items Reclassified Through Profit or VII. OTHER OPERATING INCOME (5) 65.550 109.093 Losses 16.678 (2.431) VIII. GROSS OPERATING INCOME (III+IV+V+VI+VII) 1.629.568 1.565.534 IX. EXPECTED CREDIT LOSSES (-) (6) 460.631 532.649 2.2.6 Tax Related Other Comprehensive Income Items Reclassified Through X. OTHER PROVISION EXPENSES (-) (6) XI. PERSONNEL EXPENSES (-) 156.391 131.246 Profit or Loss (53.626) 34.393 XII. OTHER OPERATING EXPENSES (-) (7) 99.017 78.698 XIII. NET OPERATING INCOME/(LOSS) (VIII-IX-X-XI-XII) 913.529 822.941 III. TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (I+II) 1.000.514 598.285 XIV. AMOUNT IN EXCESS RECORDED AS GAIN AFTER MERGER XV. PROFIT/(LOSS) ON EQUITY METHOD 19.944 90.705 XVI. GAIN/(LOSS) ON NET MONETARY POSITION XVII. PROFIT/(LOSS) FROM CONTINUED OPERATIONS BEFORE TAXES (XIII+...+XVI) 933.473 913.646 XVIII. TAX PROVISION FOR CONTINUED OPERATIONS (±) (8) 197.332 250.383 18.1 Provision for Current Income Taxes 286.837 147.709 18.2 Deferred Tax Income Effect (+) 193.394 250.149 18.3 Deferred Tax Expense Effect (-) 282.899 147.475 XIX. NET PROFIT/(LOSS) FROM CONTINUED OPERATIONS (XVI±XVII) (10) 736.141 663.263 XX. INCOME ON DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS 20.1 Income on Assets Held for Sale 20.2 Income on Sale of Associates, Subsidiaries and JointlyControlled Entities (Joint Venture) 20.3 Income on Other Discontinued Operations XXI. LOSS FROM DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS (-) 21.1 Loss from Assets Held for Sale 21.2 Loss on Sale of Associates, Subsidiaries and Jointly Controlled Entities (Joint Venture) 21.3 Loss from Other Discontinued Operations XXII. PROFIT/(LOSS) ON DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS BEFORE TAXES (XX-XXI) XXIII. TAX PROVISION FOR DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS (±) 23.1 Provision for Current Income Taxes 23.2 Deferred Tax Expense Effect (+) 23.3 Deferred Tax Income Effect (-) XXIV. NET PROFIT/LOSS FROM DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS (XXII±XXIII) XXV. NET PROFIT/LOSS (XIX+XXIV) (11) 736.141 663.263 25.1 Group’s Profit/Loss 730.504 670.756 25.2 Minority Shares (-) 5.637 (7.493) Earning/(loss) per share 0,261 0,240 (*) The necessary reclassifications have been made in the prior year’s financial statements in order to be comparable with the current period financial statements in the new financial statements format published by the Banking Regulation and Supervision Agency (“BRSA”) on 1 February 2019. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 324 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 325 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income Accumulated Other or Expenses Not Comprehensive Income or Reclassified Through Expenses Reclassified Through Profit or Loss Profit or Loss Current Total Equity Share Other Prior Period Period Except from Total CHANGES IN Paid-in Share Cancellation Capital Profit Profit or Profit or Minority Minority Shareholders’ SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY Note Capital Premiums Profits Reserves 1 2 3 4 5 6 Reserves (Loss) (Loss) Interest Interest Equity Prior Period 31 December 2018 I. Prior Period End Balance 2.400.000 428 374 215.352 (30) 16.798 7.847 (39.404) (13.879) 441.740 629.396 3.658.622 52.719 3.711.341 II. Corrections and Accounting Policy Changes Made According to TAS 8 23.101 (37.176) (14.075) (87) (14.162) 2.1 Effects of Errors 2.2 Effects of the Changes in Accounting Policies 23.101 (37.176) (14.075) (87) (14.162) III. Adjusted Beginning Balance (I+II) 2.400.000 428 374 215.352 (30) 16.798 7.847 (39.404) 9.222 441.740 592.220 3.644.547 52.632 3.697.179 IV. Total Comprehensive Income 46.142 (536) 6.644 7.857 (122.654) (2.431) 670.756 605.778 (7.493) 598.285 V. Capital Increase by Cash VI. Capital Increase by Internal Sources 400.000 (400.000) VII. Effect of Inflation on Paid-in Capital VIII. Convertible Bonds to Share IX. Subordinated Debt Instruments X. Increase/Decrease by Other Changes 88 851 3.695 4.634 (6.517) (1.883) XI. Profit Distribution 86.468 (195.973) (109.505) (109.505) 11.1 Dividends Distributed (109.865) (109.865) (109.865) 11.2 Transfers to Reserves 86.468 (86.108) 360 360 11.3 Other Period-End Balance (III+IV+…...+X+XI) 2.800.000 516 374 261.494 (566) 23.442 15.704 (162.058) 6.791 529.059 (58) 670.756 4.145.454 38.622 4.184.076 1. Accumulated Revaluation Increase/Decrease of Fixed Assets, 2. Accumulated Remeasurement Gain/Loss of Defined Benefit Pension Plan, 3. Other (Shares of Investments Valued by Equity Method in Other Comprehensive Income Not Classified Through Profit or Loss and Other Accumulated Amounts of Other Comprehensive Income Items Not Reclassified Through Other Profit or Loss), 4. Foreign Currency Translition Differences, 5. Accumulated Revaluation and/or Remeasurement Gain/Loss of the Financial Asset at Fair Value Through Other Comprehensive Income, 6. Other (Cash Flow Hedge Gain/Loss, Shares of Investments Valued by Equity Method in Other Comprehensive Income Classified Through Profit or Loss and Other Accumulated Amounts of Other Comprehensive Income Items Reclassified Through Other Profit or Loss). The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 326 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 327 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income Accumulated Other or Expenses Not Comprehensive Income or Reclassified Through Expenses Reclassified Through Profit or Loss Profit or Loss Prior Current Total Equity Share Other Period Period Except from Total CHANGES IN Paid-in Share Cancellation Capital Profit Profit or Profit or Minority Minority Shareholders’ SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY Note Capital Premiums Profits Reserves 1 2 3 4 5 6 Reserves (Loss) (Loss) Interest Interest Equity Current Period 31 December 2019 I. Prior Period End Balance 2.800.000 516 374 261.494 (566) 23.442 15.704 (162.058) 6.791 529.059 670.698 4.145.454 38.622 4.184.076 II. Corrections and Accounting Policy Changes Made According to TAS 8 2.1 Effects of Errors 2.2 Effects of the Changes in Accounting Policies III. Adjusted Beginning Balance (I+II) 2.800.000 516 374 261.494 (566) 23.442 15.704 (162.058) 6.791 529.059 670.698 4.145.454 38.622 4.184.076 IV. Total Comprehensive Income 49.105 (827) 4.339 5.010 190.068 16.678 730.504 994.877 5.637 1.000.514 V. Capital Increase by Cash VI. Capital Increase by Internal Sources VII. Effect of Inflation on Paid-in Capital VIII. Convertible Bonds to Share IX. Subordinated Debt Instruments X. Increase/Decrease by Other Changes 14 133 555 702 (6.169) (5.467) XI. Profit Distribution 697.397 (697.531) (134) (134) 11.1 Dividends Distributed (134) (134) (134) 11.2 Transfers to Reserves 697.397 (697.397) 11.3 Other Period-End Balance (III+IV+…...+X+XI) 2.800.000 530 374 310.599 (1.393) 27.781 20.714 28.010 23.469 1.226.589 (26.278) 730.504 5.140.899 38.090 5.178.989 1. Accumulated Revaluation Increase/Decrease of Fixed Assets, 2. Accumulated Remeasurement Gain/Loss of Defined Benefit Pension Plan, 3. Other (Shares of Investments Valued by Equity Method in Other Comprehensive Income Not Classified Through Profit or Loss and Other Accumulated Amounts of Other Comprehensive Income Items Not Reclassified Through Other Profit or Loss), 4. Foreign Currency Translition Differences, 5. Accumulated Revaluation and/or Remeasurement Gain/Loss of the Financial Asset at Fair Value Through Other Comprehensive Income, 6. Other (Cash Flow Hedge Gain/Loss, Shares of Investments Valued by Equity Method in Other Comprehensive Income Classified Through Profit or Loss and Other Accumulated Amounts of Other Comprehensive Income Items Reclassified Through Other Profit or Loss). The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 328 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 329 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF PROFIT DISTRIBUTION FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) Audited Audited Audited Audited Current Period Prior Period Current Period Prior Period 31 December 2019 31 December 2018 (1) Note 31 December 2019 31 December 2018 I. DISTRIBUTION OF CURRENT YEAR INCOME (*) A. CASH FLOWS FROM BANKING OPERATIONS 1.125.037 1.679.473 1.1 CURRENT YEAR INCOME 894.227 909.263 1.1 Operating Profit Before Changes in Operating Assets and Liabilities 2.971.773 2.537.294 1.2 TAXES AND DUTIES PAYABLE 192.582 248.337 1.1.1 Interest Received (1.250.464) (1.342.871) 1.2.1 Corporate Tax (Income tax) 280.993 146.335 1.1.2 Interest Paid 6.754 5.525 1.2.2 Income withholding tax 1.1.3 Dividends Received 78.154 63.929 1.2.3 Other taxes and duties (3) (88.411) 102.002 1.1.4 Fees and Commissions Received 80.871 78.663 1.1.5 Other Income 85.017 9.100 A. NET INCOME FOR THE YEAR (1.1-1.2) 701.645 660.926 1.1.6 Collections from Previously Written off Loans (182.369) (155.153) 1.3 PRIOR YEARS LOSSES (-) 1.1.7 Payments to Personnel and Service Suppliers (288.619) (104.310) 1.4 FIRST LEGAL RESERVES (-) 33.046 1.1.8 Taxes Paid (376.080) 587.296 1.5 OTHER STATUTORY RESERVES (-) 1.1.9 Others 683.347 (1.723.950) B. NET PROFIT AVAILABLE FOR DISTRIBUTION [(A-(1.3+1.4+1.5)] 701.645 627.880 1.2 Changes in Operating Assets and Liabilities (5.157) (1.541) 1.6 FIRST DIVIDEND TO SHAREHOLDERS (-) 1.2.1 Net (Increase) (Decrease) in Financial Assets at Fair Value through Profit or Loss 1.6.1 To owners of ordinary shares 1.2.2 Net (Increase) (Decrease) in Due from Banks 1.204.032 1.6.2 To owners of preferred shares 1.2.3 Net (Increase) (Decrease) in Loans 310.064 (392.290) 1.6.3 To owners of preferred shares (pre-emptive rights) 1.2.4 Net (Increase) (Decrease) in Other Assets 120.049 1.6.4 To profit sharing bonds 1.2.5 Net (Increase) (Decrease) in Bank Deposits 1.6.5 To holders of profit and loss sharing certificates 1.2.6 Net (Increase) (Decrease) in Other Deposits 1.7 DIVIDENDS TO PERSONNEL (-) 1.8 DIVIDENDS TO BOARD OF DIRECTORS (-) 1.2.7 Net (Increase) (Decrease) in Financial Liabilities at Fair Value through Profit or Loss (319.292) (1.621.868) 1.9 SECOND DIVIDEND TO SHAREHOLDERS (-) 1.2.8 Net (Increase) (Decrease) in Funds Borrowed 1.9.1 To owners of ordinary shares 1.2.9 Net (Increase) (Decrease) in Matured Payable 577.683 (912.283) 1.9.2 To owners of preferred shares 1.2.10 Net (Increase) (Decrease) in Other Liabilities 1.9.3 To owners of preferred shares (pre-emptive rights) 1.808.384 (44.477) 1.9.4 To profit sharing bonds 1.9.5 To holders of profit and loss sharing certificates I. Net Cash Provided by/(used in) Banking Operations 1.10 SECOND LEGAL RESERVES (-) 1.11 STATUTORY RESERVES (-) 1.12 GENERAL RESERVES 627.880 B. CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES 1.13 OTHER RESERVES (521.520) (328.661) 1.14 SPECIAL FUNDS II. Net Cash Provided by/(used in) Investing Activities II. DISTRIBUTION OF RESERVES (990) (3.000) 2.1 Cash Paid for Purchase of Entities under Common Control, Associates and Subsidiaries 2.1 APPROPRIATED RESERVES 2.2 Cash Obtained from Sale of Entities under Common Control, Associates and Subsidiaries (9.698) (4.924) 2.2 SECOND LEGAL RESERVES (-) 2.3 Purchases of Property and Equipment 5.592 94 2.3 DIVIDENDS TO SHAREHOLDERS (-) 2.4 Disposals of Property and Equipment (1.048.151) (680.955) 2.3.1 To owners of ordinary shares 2.5 Purchase of Financial Assets at Fair Value through Other Comprehensive Income 772.368 590.195 2.3.2 To owners of preferred shares 2.3.3 To owners of preferred shares (pre-emptive rights) 2.6 Sale of Financial Assets at Fair Value through Other Comprehensive Income (433.812) (227.528) 2.3.4 To profit sharing bonds 2.7 Purchase of Financial Assets Measured at Amortized Cost 195.251 2.3.5 To holders of profit and loss sharing certificates 2.8 Sale of Financial Assets Measured at Amortized Cost (2.080) (2.543) 2.4 DIVIDENDS TO PERSONNEL (-) 2.9 Others 2.5 DIVIDENDS TO BOARD OF DIRECTORS (-) C. CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES III. EARNINGS PER SHARE (2) 3.1 TO OWNERS OF ORDINARY SHARES 0,26 0,24 III. Net Cash Provided by/(used in) Financing Activities (1.897.241) 1.208.745 3.2 TO OWNERS OF ORDINARY SHARES (%) 25,06 23,60 3.3 TO OWNERS OF PRIVILEGED SHARES 3.1 Cash Obtained From Funds Borrowed and Securities Issued 108.662 1.318.590 3.4 TO OWNERS OF PRIVILEGED SHARES (%) 3.2 Cash Used for Repayment of Funds Borrowed and Securities Issued (2.004.016) 3.3 Capital Increase IV. DIVIDEND PER SHARE 3.4 Dividends Paid (134) (109.865) 4.1 TO OWNERS OF ORDINARY SHARES 3.5 Payments for Leases (1.753) 4.2 TO OWNERS OF ORDINARY SHARES (%) 3.6 Other 20 4.3 TO OWNERS OF PRIVILAGED SHARES 4.4 TO OWNERS OF PRIVILEGED SHARES (%) IV. Effect of Change in Foreign Exchange Rate on Cash and Cash Equivalents 4.354 45.970 (1) Since the Board of Directors has not prepared any proposal for profit distribution relating to the year 2019 yet, only profit available for distribution for the year 2019 is presented. V. Net Increase/(Decrease) in Cash and Cash Equivalents (606.023) 881.577 (2) A nominal value of 1 Kuruş figures a share in unconsolidated income statement and unconsolidated statement of profit distribution and an earnings per share is VI. Cash and Cash Equivalents at Beginning of the Period 1.385.825 504.248 calculated for a nominal value of 1 Kuruş. (3) The current amount is deferred tax expense and the prior amount is deferred tax income. VII. Cash and Cash Equivalents at End of the Period 779.802 1.385.825 (*) According to the regulation in Turkey, companies do not distribute profits based on consolidated. Profit distribution is based on non-consolidated financial statements is belong to the Parent Bank. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 330 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 331 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION THREE SECTION THREE (Continued) ACCOUNTING POLICIES ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) I. Basis of presentation I. Basis of presentation (continued) I.a Preparation of the financial statements and the accompanying footnotes in accordance with Turkish Accounting I.b.2 TFRS 16 Leases (continued) Standards and Regulation on Principles Related to Banks’ Accounting Applications and Maintaining the Documents Right-of-use assets The consolidated financial statements are prepared its financial statements in accordance with the BRSA Accounting and Reporting Regulation” which includes the regulation on “The Procedures and Principles Regarding Banks’ Accounting The Bank recognises right-of-use assets at the commencement date of the lease (i.e., the date the underlying asset is available Practices and Maintaining Documents” published in the Official Gazette dated 1 November 2006 with No. 26333, and other for use). Right-of-use assets are measured at cost, less any accumulated depreciation and impairment losses, and adjusted for regulations on accounting records of banks published by the Banking Regulation and Supervision Board and circulars and any remeasurement of lease liabilities. The cost of right-of-use assets includes pronouncements published by the BRSA and Turkish Accounting Standards published by the Public Oversight Accounting (a) the amount of lease liabilities recognised, and Auditing Standards Authority for the matters not regulated by the aforementioned legislations and the amendments (b) initial direct costs incurred, dated 1 February 2019 to the Communiqué on the Financial Statements and Related Disclosures and Footnotes to announced (c) lease payments made at or before the commencement date less any lease incentives received. to public dated 28 June 2012 and with No. 28337 “Communique’ on Publicly Announced Financial Statements Explanations and notes to the Financial Statements”. Unless the Bank is reasonably certain to obtain ownership of the leased asset at the end of the lease term, the recognised right-of-use assets are depreciated on a straight-line basis over the shorter of its estimated useful life and the lease term. The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in TL, under the historical cost convention except for the financial Right-of-use assets are subject to impairment. asset, liabilities and buildings revaluation model which are carried at fair value. Lease Liabilities Accounting policies and valuation principles used in the preparation of the financial statements are determined and applied, in accordance with the regulations, communiqués, interpretations and legislations related to accounting and financial At the commencement date of the lease, the Bank recognises lease liabilities measured at the present value of lease reporting principles published by the Banking Regulation and Supervision Agency (“BRSA”). payments to be made over the lease term. The accounting policies and valuation principles used in the 2019 period of Group are presented in the accompanying notes The lease payments include and the accounting policies and valuation principles are explained in Notes II to XXIII below. The format and content of the a) fixed payments (including in-substance fixed payments) less any lease incentives receivable, accompanying consolidated financial statements and footnotes have been prepared in accordance with the “Communique’ on Publicly Announced Financial Statements Explanations and notes to the Financial Statements” and “Communique on b) variable lease payments that depend on an index or a rate, Disclosures About Risk Management to be Announced to Public by Banks.” c) amounts expected to be paid under residual value guarantees. d) the exercise price of a purchase option reasonably certain to be exercised by the Company/the Group and payments of Additional paragraph for convenience translation to English penalties for terminating a lease, The effects of differences between accounting principles and standards set out by regulations in conformity with BRSA e) if the lease term reflects the Company/the Group exercising the option to terminate. Accounting and Reporting Legislation and Turkish Accounting Standard 34” Interim Financial reporting” except for the matters regulated by BRSA Legislation accounting principles generally accepted in countries in which the accompanying The variable lease payments that do not depend on an index or a rate are recognised as expense in the period on which the unconsolidated financial statements are to be distributed and International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) have not event or condition that triggers the payment occurs.In calculating the present value of lease payments, the Company/the been quantified in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. Accordingly, the accompanying unconsolidated Group uses the incremental borrowing rate at the lease commencement date if the interest rate implicit in the lease is not financial statements are not intended to present the financial position, results of operations and changes in financial position readily determinable. and cash flows in accordance with the accounting principles generally accepted in such countries and IFRS. After the effective date of the lease, the Bank measures the lease obligation as follows: a) The book value is increased to reflect the accretion of interest of lease liabilities I.b Changes in accounting policies and disclosures b) The book value is reduced to reflect the lease payments made I.b.1 Major new and amended standards and interpretations In addition, the carrying amount of lease liabilities is remeasured if there is a modification, a change in the lease term, a The Bank has started to apply “TFRS 16 Leases” Standard published by Public Oversight Accounting and Auditing Standards change in the in-substance fixed lease payments or a change in the assessment to purchase the underlying asset. Authority (“POA”) in the Official Gazette numbered 29826 dated 16 April 2018 starting from 1 January 2019. Other changes on standards of TAS and TFRS have no significant impact on financial position or performance of the Parent Bank. I.b.2 TFRS 16 Leases TFRS 16 Leasing standard abolishes the dual accounting model currently applied for lessees through recognizing finance leases in the balance sheet whereas not recognizing operational lease.Instead, it is set forth a single model similar to the accounting of financial leases (on balance sheet). For lessors, the accounting stays almost the same. The Bank has started to apply “TFRS 16 Leases” Standard starting from 1 January 2019. The Bank has applied TFRS 16 with a simplified retrospective approach. The new accounting policies of the Bank regarding to application TFRS 16 are stated below. 332 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 333 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION THREE (Continued) SECTION THREE (Continued) ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) I. Basis of presentation (continued) II. Explanations on usage strategy of financial assets and foreign currency transactions (continued) I.c The valuation principles used in the preparation of the financial statements Commercial placements are managed with high return and low risk assets considering the international and domestic economic expectations, market conditions, creditors’ expectations and their tendencies, interest-liquidity and other similar The accounting rules and the valuation principles used in the preparation of the financial statements were implemented as factors. Prudence principle is adopted in the placement decisions. The long term placements are made under project finance. stated in the Turkish Accounting Standards and related regulations, explanations and circulars on accounting and financial A credit policy is implemented such a way that harmonizing the profitability of the projects, the collateral and the value add reporting principles announced by the BRSA. These accounting policies and valuation principles are explained in the below introduced by the Bank. notes through II to XXIII. The movements of foreign exchange rates in the market, interest rates and prices are monitored instantaneously. While taking I.d The items which have different accounting policies applied in the preparation of the consolidated financial positions, the Group’s unique operating and control limits are watched effectively besides statutory limits. Limit overs are not statements and their ratios to the total of the related items in the consolidated financial statements allowed.The Bank’s strategy of hedging interest rate and foreign currency risks arising from fixed and variable interest rate funds and foreign currency fair value through other comprehensive income securities: Different accounting policies are not applied in the preparation of consolidated financial statements. A great majority of foreign currency fair value through other comprehensive income securities are financed with foreign II. Explanations on usage strategy of financial assets and foreign currency transactions currency resources. Accordingly, the anticipated possible depreciation of local currency against other currencies is eliminated. The main sources of the funds of the Group have variable interest rates. The financial balances are monitored frequently and A foreign currency basket is formulated in terms of the indicated foreign currency to eliminate the risk exposure of changes fixed and floating interest rate placements are undertaken according to the return on the alternative financial instruments. in cross currency parity. Interest rate risk is mitigated by constituting a balanced asset composition in compliance with the The macro goals related to balance sheet amounts are set during budgeting process and positions are taken accordingly. structure of fixed and floating rate of funding resources. Due to the fact that the great majority of the loans extended by the the Group have a flexibility of reflecting changes in The hedging strategies for other foreign exchange risk exposures: A stable foreign exchange position strategy is implemented the market interest rates to the customers, the interest rate risk is kept at minimum level. Moreover, the highly profitable and to be secured from cross currency risk, the current foreign exchange position is monitored by considering a currency Eurobond and the foreign currency government indebtness securities portfolio have the attribute of eliminating the risks of basket in specific foreign currencies. interest rate volatility. The foreign exchange gains and losses on foreign currency transactions are accounted for in the period of the transaction. The fixed rate Subordinated bond, Eurobond and Greenbond issued by the Group and a portion of fixed rate funds borrowed Foreign exchange assets and liabilities are translated to Turkish Lira using foreign exchange bid rate as of the reporting date, are subject to fair value hedge accounting. The Bank enters into interest rate swap agreements in order to hedge the change and the resulting gains and losses are recorded in foreign exchange gains or losses. in fair values of its fixed rate financial liabilities. The changes in the fair value of the hedged fixed rate financial liabilities and III. Explanations on associates and subsidiaries hedging interest rate swaps are recognized under the statement of profit/loss. Explanations about the Parent Bank and its subsidiaries and associates subject to consolidation are described in General In the beginning and later period of the hedging transaction, the aforementioned hedging transactions are expected to Information Section V. offset changes occurred in the relevant period of the hedging transaction and hedged risk (attributable to hedging risk) and effectiveness tests are performed in this regard. IV. Explanations on forward and option contracts and derivative instruments The Group performs effectiveness test at the beginning of the hedge accounting and at each reporting period. The The Parent Bank is exposed to financial risk which depends on changes in foreign exchange rates and interest rates due to effectiveness tests are carried out using the “Dollar off-set model” and the hedge accounting is applied as long as the test activities and as part of banking activities uses derivative instruments to manage financial risk that especially associated with results are between the range of 80%-125% of effectiveness. fluctuations in foreign exchange and interest rate. Mainly derivative instruments used by the Group are foreign currency forwards, swaps and option agreements. The hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires, is exercised, sold or no longer effective. When discontinuing fair value hedge accounting, the cumulative fair value changes in carrying value of the hedged item arising from the hedged risk are amortized and recognized in income statement over the life of the hedged item from that date of the hedge accounting is discontinued. The Bank liquidity is regularly monitored. Moreover, the need of liquidity in foreign currencies is safeguarded by currency swaps. TFRS 9 provides the option of deferring the adoption of TFRS 9 hedge accounting and the option to continue to apply the provisions of TAS 39 hedge accounting in the selection of accounting policies. In this context, the Parent Bank continues to apply the provisions of TAS 39 hedge accounting. The Parent Bank liquidity is regularly monitored. Moreover, the need of liquidity in foreign currencies is safeguarded by currency swaps. 334 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 335 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION THREE (Continued) SECTION THREE (Continued) ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) IV. Explanations on forward and option contracts and derivative instruments (continued) VII. Explanations on fees and commission income and expenses The derivative financial instruments are accounted for at their fair values as of the date of the agreements entered into Except for fees and commissions that are integral part of the effective interest rates of financial instruments measured at and subsequently valued at fair value. Derivative financial instruments of the Bank are classified under “TFRS 9 Financial amortized costs, the fees and commissions are accounted for in accordance with TFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Instruments” (“TFRS 9”), “Derivative Financial Assets Designated at Fair Value Through Profit or Loss” or “Derivative Financial Customers. Except for certain fees related with certain banking transactions and recognized when the related service is given, Assets Designated at Fair Value Through Other Comprehensive Income”. Payables and receivables arising from the derivative fees and commissions received or paid, and other fees and commissions paid to financial institutions are accounted under instruments are recorded in the off-balance sheet accounts at their contractual values. Derivative transactions are valued at accrual basis of accounting throughout the service period. Income from asset purchases to a third party or by natural or legal their fair values subsequent to their acquisition. In accordance with the classification of derivative financial instruments, if the persons contracts are recognized in the period they occur. fair value is positive, the amount is classified as “Derivative Financial Assets Designated at Fair Value Through Profit or Loss” or “Derivative Financial Assets Designated at Fair Value Through Other Comprehensive Income”, if the fair value is negative, the VIII. Explanations on financial assets amount is classified as “Derivative Financial Liabilities Designated at Fair Value Through Profit or Loss” or “Derivative Financial Initial recognition of financial instruments Liabilities Designated at Fair Value Through Other Comprehensive Income”. The fair value differences of derivative financial instruments are recognized in the income statement under trading profit/loss line in profit/loss from derivative financial Initial recognition of financial instruments the Bank shall recognize a financial asset or a financial liability in its statement of transaction. financial position when, and only when, the entity becomes party to the contractual provisions of the instrument. A regular way purchase or sale of financial assets shall be recognized and derecognized, as applicable, using trade date accounting or V. Explanations on associates and subsidiaries settlement date accounting. Purchase and sale transactions of securities are accounted at the settlement date. The Parent Bank’s financial subsidiaries’ are reflected the consolidated financial statements according to the equity method Initial measurement of financial instruments in accordance with TAS 28 Investment in Associates and Joint Ventures Related to the Turkish Accounting Standards. Unconsolidated and non financial subsidiaries and associates are presented in the financial statements in accordance with The classification of financial instruments at initial recognition depends on the contractual conditions and the relevant the “TAS 27-Separate Financial Statements” standard with their cost values after the deduction of, if any, impairment losses. business model. Except for the assets in the scope of TFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers, at initial recognition, the Bank measures financial asset or financial liabilities at fair value plus or minus, in the case of a financial asset or financial VI. Explanations on interest income and expenses liability not at fair value through profit/loss, transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or issue of the Interest income is recorded according to the effective interest rate method (rate equal to net present value of future financial asset or financial liability. cash flows or financial assets and liabilities) defined in the TFRS 9 “Financial Instruments” standard by applying an accrual Classification of financial instruments basis using the effective interest rate to the gross carrying amount of a financial asset except for: purchased or originated credit-impaired financial assets or financial assets that are not purchased or originated credit-impaired financial assets but On which category a financial instruments shall be classified at initial recognition depends on both the business model for subsequently have become credit-impaired financial assets. managing the financial assets and the contractual cash flow characteristics of the financial asset. If the financial asset is impaired and classified as a non-performing receivable, the Bank applies the effective interest rate on the amortized cost of the asset for subsequent reporting periods. Such interest income calculation is made on an individual contract basis for all financial assets subject to impairment calculation. It is used effective interest rate during calculation of loss given default rate in expected creditloss models and accordingly, the calculation of expected credit losses includes an interest amount. Therefore, a reclassification is made between the accounts of “Expected Credit Losses” and “Interest Income From Loans” for calculated amount. If the credit risk of the financial instrument improves to the extent that the financial asset is no longer considered as impaired and the improvement can be attributed to an incident that eventually takes place (such as an increase in the loan’s credit rating), interest income at subsequent reporting periods are calculated by applying the effective interest rate to the gross amount. 336 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 337 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION THREE (Continued) SECTION THREE (Continued) ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) VIII. Explanations on financial assets (Continued) VIII. Explanations on financial assets (Continued) Assessment of business model The contractual cash flows including solely principle and interest on principle As per TFRS 9, the Parent Bank’s business model is determined at a level that reflects how groups of financial assets are As per TFRS 9, the Parent Bank classifies a financial asset on the basis of its contractual cash flow characteristics if the financial managed together to achieve a particular business objective. The business model does not depend on the intent of the asset is held within a business model whose objective is to hold assets to collect contractual cash flows or within a business management on an individual financial intermediary, so the condition is not a classification approach on the basis of a model whose objective is achieved by both collecting contractual cash flows and selling financial assets. In order to assess financial instrument but an evaluation by combining the financial assets. When the business model used for the management whether the element provides consideration for only the passage of time, an entity applies judgement and considers relevant of financial assets is being evaluated, all evidence is taken into account. Such evidence includes the following: factors such as the currency in which the financial asset is denominated and the period for which the interest rate is set. When How the performance of financial assets held by the business model and business model is reported by the key executive the contractual conditions are exposed to the risks which are not consistent with the basic lending arrangement or variability personnel, of cash flows, the relevant financial asset is measured at fair value through profit or loss. Risks affecting the performance of the business model (financial assets held within the business model) and, in particular Measurement categories of financial assets and liabilities type of management, How the additional payments to the managers are determined (for example, whether additional payments are determined Financial assets are classified compliance with TFRS 9 in three main categories as listed below: according to the fair value of the assets being managed or on the contractual cash flows collected). Financial assets measured at fair value through profit/loss Financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income and Business model evaluation is not based on scenarios in which the operator is not expected to be at a reasonable level, such as the “worst case” or “pressure case” scenarios. The same business model does not require a change in the classification Financial assets measured at amortized cost of other financial assets as long as the cash flows are realized differently from the expected future date when the business a. Financial assets at the fair value through profit or loss: model is assessed, the error correction is made in the financial statements or all relevant information available at the time of the valuation of the business model is taken into account. However, when evaluating the business model for newly created Financial assets at fair value through profit/loss are financial assets other than the ones that are managed with business or newly acquired financial assets, information about how past cash flows have been taken into account along with other model that aimed to hold to collect contractual cash flows or business model that aims to collect both the contractual cash relevant information is also taken into account. The business models that comprise the bet are composed of three categories. flows and cash flows arising from the sale of the assets; and in case of the contractual terms of the financial asset do not lead These categories are as follows: to cash flows representing solely payments of principal and interest at certain date; that are either acquired for generating a Business model aimed to hold assets in order to collect contractual cash flows: This is a model whose objective is to hold profit from shortterm fluctuations in prices or are financial assets included in a portfolio aiming to short-term profit making. assets in order to collect contractual cash flows are managed to realise cash flows by collecting contractual payments over the life of the instrument. The financial assets that are held within the scope of this business model are measured at The Parent Bank classifies certain loans and securities issued at their origination dates, as financial assets/liabilities at fair amortized cost when the contractual terms of the financial asset meet the condition of giving rise on specified dates to value through profit/loss, irrevocably in order to eliminate any accounting mismatch in compliance with TFRS 9. cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding. Financial assets at the fair value through profit or loss are initially recognized at fair value and measured at their fair value Business model whose objective is to hold assets in order to collect contractual cash flows: The Parent Bank may hold after recognition. All gains and losses arising from these valuations are reflected in the income statement. financial assets in this business model whose objective is achieved by both collecting contractual cash flows and selling financial assets. According to uniform chart of accounts explanations interest income earned on financial asset and the difference between their acquisition costs and amortized costs are recorded as “interest income” in the statement of profit or loss. The differences Fair value change of the financial assets that are held within the scope of this business model are accounted under other between the amortized costs and the fair values of such assets are recorded under “trading account income/losses” in the comprehensive income when the contractual terms of the financial asset meet the condition of giving rise on specified dates statement of profit or loss. In cases where such assets are sold before their maturities, the gains/losses on such sales are to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding. recorded under “trading account income/losses”. Other Business Model: Financial assets are measured at fair value through profit or loss if they are not held within a business model whose objective is to hold assets to collect contractual cash flows or within a business model whose objective is achieved by both collecting contractual cash flows and selling financial assets. 338 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 339 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION THREE (Continued) SECTION THREE (Continued) ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) VIII. Explanations on financial assets (Continued) VIII. Explanations on financial assets (Continued) Measurement categories of financial assets and liabilities (continued) Measurement categories of financial assets and liabilities (continued) a. Financial assets at the fair value through profit or loss (continued) b. Financial Assets at Fair Value Through Other Comprehensive Income (continued): Syndicated loans extended to Ojer Telekomünikasyon A.Ş. (OTAŞ) in the previous periods were restructed. Within this scope, “Unrealized gains and losses” arising from the difference between the amortized cost and the fair value of financial assets at in order to form the colleteral of these loans, taking over process of 192.500.000.000 A Group shares which constitute fair value through other comprehensive income are not reflected in the income statement of the period until the acquisition 55% of Turk Telekom’s issued capital, pledged in favor of the creditors, were completed on 21 December 2018, by LYY of the asset, sale of the asset, the disposal of the asset, and impairment of the asset and they are accounted under the Telekomünikasyon A.Ş. (formerly known as Levent Yapılandırma Yonetimi A.Ş.) which was established as a privately-owned “Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income or Loss Reclassified Through Profit or Loss” under shareholders’ equity. Equity company and all creditors are direct or indirect shareholders. The Bank has a share of 1,617% in LYY Telekomünikasyon A.Ş., securities, which are classified as financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income, that have a quoted which is the share of OTAŞ receivables. market price in an active market and whose fair values can be reliably measured are carried at fair value. Equity securities that do not have a quoted market price in an active market and whose fair values cannot be reliably measured are carried at cost, Later, at the Ordinary General Assembly Meeting of LYY Telekomünikasyon A.Ş. held on 23 September, 2019, it was decided less provision for impairment. to convert some of the loan to capital and add it to the capital of LYY Telekomünikasyon A.Ş. The nominal value of shares increased from TL 0,8 to TL 64.403. This amount is presented under “Property and Equipment Held for Sale and Related to During initial recognition an entity can choose in a irrecovable was to record the changes of the fair value of the investment Discontinued Operations” in the financial statements. As of 31 December 2019, the portion which is followed accounted in an equity instrument that is not held for trading purposes in the other comprehensive income. In the case of this under credit loan is TL 263.097 and classified under “Other Financial Assets” under “ Financial Assets at Fair Value through preference, the dividend from the investment is taken into the financial statements as profit or loss. Profit or Loss” in the financial statements”. The total fair value decrease recognized for loans and equity amounted to TL 34.196 and the total amount is classified under “Financial Assets at Fair Value Through Profit and Loss ”. c. Financial Assets Measured at Amortized Cost: Total assets amounting to TL 327.499 are measured at fair value under TFRS 9 Financial Instruments Standard and TFRS 5 Financial assets that are held for collection of contractual cash flows where those cash flows represent solely payments of Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations. The determination of this value is based on the results of an independent principal and interest are classified as financial assets measured at amortized cost. Financial assets measured at amortized appraisal firm. In the valuation study, fair value is determined by considering the average of different methods (discounted cost are initially recognized at acquisition cost including the transaction costs which reflect the fair value of those instruments cash flows, similar market multipliers, similar transaction multipliers in the same sector, market value and analyst reports). The and subsequently recognized at amortized cost by using effective interest rate method. Interest income obtained from maturity of the loan is 1 year and the maturity can be extended. financial assets measured at amortized cost is accounted in income statement. The main objective of the lending banks is to transfer Türk Telekom shares to an expert investor by providing the necessary In the “Fair value through other comprehensive income” and “measured at amortized cost” securities portfolio of the Parent conditions as quickly as possible. 55% of LYY Telekomünikasyon A.Ş. was authorized as an international investment bank sales Bank, there are Consumer Price Indexed (CPI) Bonds. consultant on 19 September 2019 for the sale of its shares. In this context, necessary studies related to sales and negotiations with potential investors will be initiated. b. Financial Assets at Fair Value Through Other Comprehensive Income: In addition to Financial assets within a business model that aims to hold to collect contractual cash flows and aims to hold to sell, financial asset with contractual terms that lead to cash flows are solely payments of principal and interest at certain dates, they are classified as fair value through other comprehensive income. Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income are recognized by adding transaction cost to acquisition cost reflecting the fair value of the financial asset. After the recognition, financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income are measured at fair value. Interest income calculated with effective interest rate method arising from financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income and dividend income from equity securities are recorded to income statement. 340 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 341 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION THREE (Continued) SECTION THREE (Continued) ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) VIII. Explanations on financial assets (Continued) IX. Explanations on impairment of financial assets (continued) Measurement categories of financial assets and liabilities (continued) Calculation of expected credit losses c. Financial Assets Measured at Amortized Cost (continued) : The expected credit loss estimates are required to be unbiased, probability-weighted and include supportable information about past events, current conditions, and forecasts of future economic conditions. The Parent Bank considered expected inflation index of future cash flows prevailing at the reporting date while calculating internal rate of return of the Consumer Price Indexed (CPI) marketable securities. The effect of this application is accounted Risk parameters used in TFRS 9 calculations are included in the future macroeconomic information. While macroeconomic as interest received from marketable securities in the consolidated financial statements.These securities are valued and information is included, macroeconomic forecasting models and multiple scenarios used in the Internal Capital Assessment accounted according to the effective interest method based on the real coupon rates and the reference inflation index at the Process (“ICAAP”) are considered. issue date and the estimated inflation rate. As stated in the Investor’s Guide of CPI Government Bonds by Republic of Turkey Undersecretariat of Treasury the reference indices used to calculate the actual coupon payment amounts of these securities Within the scope of TFRS 9, the probability of default (PD), Loss given default (LGD) and Exposure at default (EAD) models are based on the previous two months CPI’s. The Parent Bank determines the estimated inflation rate accordingly. The have been developed. The models developed under TFRS 9 are based on the following segmentation elements: inflation rate is estimated by considering the expectancies of the Central Bank and the Bank which are updated as needed Loan portfolio (corporate/specilization) within the year. Product type d. Loans Credit risk rating notes (ratings) Colleteral type Loans are financial assets that have fixed or determinable payments terms and are not quoted in an active market. Loans are Duration since origination of a loan initially recognized at acquisition cost plus transaction costs presenting their fair value and thereafter measured at amortized cost using the “Effective Interest Rate (internal rate of return) Method”. Duties paid, transaction costs and other similar Remaining time to maturity expenses on assets received against such risks are considered as a part of transaction cost and charged to customers. Turkish Exposure at default Lira (“TL”) cash loans are composed of foreign currency indexed loans and working capital loans; foreign currency (“FC”) cash loans are composed of investment loans, export financing loans and working capital loans. Probability of Default (PD): PD refers to the likelihood that a loan will default within a specified time horizon given certain characteristics. Based on TFRS 9, two different PDs are used in order to calculate expected credit losses: All loans of the Parent Bank has classified under Measured at Amortized Cost, after loan portfolio passed the test of “. All cash 12-month PD: as the estimated probability of default occurring within the next 12 months following the balance sheet flows from contracts are made only by interest and principal” during the transition period. date. Foreign currency indexed loans are converted into TL from the foreign currency rate as of the opening date and followed in Lifetime PD: as the estimated probability of default occurring over the remaining life of the financial instrument. TL accounts. Repayments are measured with the foreign currency rate at the payment date, the foreign currency gains and The Bank uses internal rating systems for loan portfolio. The internal rating models used include customer financial losses are reflected to the income statement. information and knowledge of survey responses based on expert judgement. Probability of default calculation has been IX. Explanations on impairment of financial assets carried out based on past information, current conditions and forward looking macroeconomic parameters. As of 1 January 2018, loss allowance for expected credit losses is recognised on financial assets and loans measured at Loss Given Default (LGD): If a loan default occurs, it represents the economic loss incurred on the loan. It is expressed as a amortized cost, financial assests measured at fair value through other comprehensive income, loan commitments and percentage. financial guarantee contracts not measured at fair value through profit or loss based on TFRS 9 and regulation published in Exposure at Default (EAD): For cash loans, it corresponds to the amount of loan granted as of the reporting date. For nonthe Official Gazette no. 29750 dated 22 June 2016 in connection with “Procedures and Principals regarding Classification of cash loans and commitments, it is the value calculated through using credit conversion factors. Credit conversion factor Loans and Allowances Allocated for Such Loans”. TFRS 9 impairment requirements are not eligible for equity instruments. corresponds to the factor which adjusts the potential increase of the exposure between the current date and the default date. At each reporting date, it shall be assessed whether the credit risk on a financial instrument has increased significantly since Financial assets are divided into three categories depending on the increase in credit risk observed since their initial initial recognition. When making the assessment, it shall be used the change in the risk of a default occuring for the financial recognition: instrument. Stage 1: For the financial assets at initial recognition or that do not have a significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition. Impairment for credit risk is recorded in the amount of 12-month expected credit losses. 12-month expected credit loss is calculated based on a probability of default realized within 12 months after the reporting date. Such expected 12-month probability of default is applied on an expected exposure at default, multiplied with loss given default rate and discounted with the original effective interest rate. 342 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 343 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION THREE (Continued) SECTION THREE (Continued) ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) IX. Explanations on impairment of financial assets (continued) IX. Explanations on impairment of financial assets (continued) Calculation of expected credit losses (Continued) Significant increase in credit risk (continued) These expected 12-month default probabilities are applied to an estimated default and are reduced by the original effective If there is a significant deterioration in PD, it is considered that there is a significant increase in credit risk and the financial interest rate of the loan, multiplied by the loss in the expected default. asset is classified as stage 2. In this context, the Bank has calculated thresholds at which point the relative change is a significant deterioration. Stage 2: When determining the significant increase in the parent bank credit risk, The Parent Bank also assessed the absolute change In the event of a significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition, the financial asset is transferred to Stage 2. in the PD date on the transaction date and on the reporting date. If the absolute change in the PD ratio is above the threshold Impairment for credit risk is determined on the basis of the instrument’s lifetime expected credit losses. Calculation of values, the related financial asset is classified as stage 2. expected credit losses is similar to descriptions above, but probability of default and loss given default rates are estimated through the life of the instrument. The Bank classifies the financial asset as Stage 2 (Significant Increase in Credit Risk) where any of the following conditions are satisfied as a result of a qualitative assessment: Stage 3: Loans overdue more than 30 days as of the reporting date Stage 3 includes financial assets that have objective evidence of impairment at the reporting date. For these assets, lifetime Loans classified as watchlist expected credit losses are recognized and interest revenue is calculated on the net carrying amount. The probability of When there is a change in the payment plan due to restructuring default is taken into account as 100%. X. Explanations on offsetting, derecognition and restructuring of financial instruments The default assessment of the Bank is made according to the following conditions: 1. Objective Default Definition: It means debt having past due more than 90 days. Current definition of default in the Bank a. Offsetting of financial instruments and its consolidated financial subsidiaries is based on a more than 90 days past due definition. Financial assets and liabilities are offset when the Parent Bank has a legally enforceable right to set off, and when the Parent 2. Subjective Default Definition: It means a debt is considered is unlikely to be paid. Whenever an obligor is considered is Bank has the intention of collecting or paying the net amount of related assets and liabilities or when the Parent Bank has the unlikely to pay its credit obligations, it should be considered as defaulted regardless of the existence of any past-due right to offset the assets and liabilities simultaneously. Otherwise, there is not any offsetting transaction about financial assets amount or of the number of days past due. and liabilities. Debt instruments measured at fair value through other comprehensive income b. Derecognition of financial instruments According to TFRS 9 the impairment requirements are applied for the recognition and measurement of a loss allowance for Derecognition of financial assets due to change in contractual terms financial assets that are measured at fair value through other comprehensive income. However, the loss allowance shall be recognised in other comprehensive income and shall not reduce the carrying amount of the financial asset in the statement Based on TFRS 9, the renegotiation or modification of the contractual cash flows of a financial asset can lead to the of financial position. The expected credit loss is reflected in other comprehensive income and the accumulated amount is derecognition of the existing financial asset. When the modification of a financial asset results in the derecognition of the recycled to statement of profit/loss following the derecognition of related financial asset. existing financial asset and the subsequent recognition of the modified financial asset, the modified asset is considered a ‘new’ financial asset. When the Parent Bank assesses the characteristics of the new contractual terms of the financial asset, it Significant increase in credit risk evaluates the contractual cash flows including foreign currency rate changes, conversion to equity, counterparty changes and solely principal and interest on principle. When the contractual cash flows of a financial asset are renegotiated or otherwise As of the reporting date, if the credit risk on a financial instrument has not increased significantly since initial recognition, the modified and the renegotiation or modification does not result in the derecognition of that financial asset, it is recalculated loss allowance for that financial instrument is measured at an amount equal to 12-month expected credit losses. However, if the gross carrying amount of the financial asset and recognized a modification gain or loss in profit or loss. there is a significant increase in credit risk of a financial instrument since initial recognition, the Bank measures loss allowance regarding such instrument at an amount equal to lifetime expected credit losses. Where all risks and rewards of ownership of the asset have not been transferred to another party and the Bank retains control of the asset, the Bank continues to recognize the remaining portion of the asset and liabilities arising from such asset. When The Parent Bank makes qualitative and quantitative assessments regarding assessment of significant increase in credit risk the Parent Bank retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the transferred asset, the transferred asset of financial assets to be classified as stage 2 (Significant Increase in Credit Risk). Credit risk is based on a comparison of the continues to be recognized in its entirety and the consideration received is recognized as a liability. probability of default calculated at the origination of the loan and the probability of default assigned for the same loan as of the reporting date. 344 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 345 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION THREE (Continued) SECTION THREE (Continued) ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) X. Explanations on offsetting, derecognition and restructuring of financial instruments (continued) X. Explanations on offsetting, derecognition and restructuring of financial instruments (continued) Derecognition of financial assets without any change in contractual terms In order for the restructured non-performing loans to be classified to the watchlist category, the following conditions must be met: The asset is derecognized if the contractual rights to cash flows from the financial asset are expired or the related financial Recovery in debt service. asset and all risks and rewards of ownership of the asset are transferred to another party. Except for equity instruments measured at fair value through other comprehensive income, the total amount consisting of the gain or loss arising from the At least one year should pass over the date of restructuring difference between the book value and the amount obtained and any accumulated gain directly accounted in equity shall be Payment of all accrued and overdue amounts by debtor (interest and principal) since the date of restructuring/refinancing recognized in profit/loss. or the date when the debtor is classified as nonperforming (earlier date to be considered) and fulfillment of the payment condition of all overdue amounts as of the date of restructuring/refinancing Derecognition of financial liabilities Collection of all overdue amounts, disappearance of the reasons for classification as nonperforming receivable (based on It shall be removed a financial liability (or a part of a financial liability) from the statement of financial position when, and only the conditions mentioned above) and having no overdue more than 30 days as of the date of reclassification when, it is extinguished when the obligation specified in the contract is discharged or cancelled or expires. During the follow-up period of at least two years following the date of restructuring/refinancing, if there is a new c. Reclassification of financial instruments restructuring/refinancing or a delay of more than 30 days, the transactions which were non-performing at the beginning of the follow-up period are classified as non-performing loans again. Based on TFRS 9, the Bank shall reclassify all affected financial assets at amortised cost to financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income and fair value through profit or loss in the subsequent accounting when, and XI. Explanations on sales and repurchase agreements and lending of securities only when, it changes its business model for managing financial assets. Funds provided under repurchase agreements are accounted under “Funds Provided under Repurchase Agreements-TL” and The Bank has fulfilled the requirements of reclassification during transition to TFRS 9 and such reclassification details are “Funds Provided under Repurchase Agreements-FC” accounts. presented in Section 3, Note VIII. The repurchase agreements of the Group are based on the Eurobonds and government bonds issued by Republic of Turkey d. Restructuring and refinancing of financial instruments Undersecretariat of Treasury. Marketable securities subject to repurchase agreements are classified under assets at fair value through profit or loss, assets at fair value through other comprehensive income or assets at measured at amortized costs The Parent Bank may change the original contractual terms of a loan (maturity, repayment structure, guarantees and sureties) with parallel to classifications of financial instruments. The income and expenses from these transactions are reflected to the which were previously signed, in case the loan cannot be repaid or if a potential payment difficulty is encountered based on interest income and interest expense accounts in the income statement. Receivables from reverse repurchase agreements are the new financing power and structure of the borrower. recorded in “Receivables from Reverse Repurchase Agreements” account in the balance sheet. Restructuring is to change the financial terms of existing loans in order to facilitate the payment of debt. Refinancing is XII. Explanations on assets held for sale and discontinued operations granting a new loan by the Parent Bank which will cover either the principal or the interest payment in whole or in part of one or a few existing loans due to the anticipated financial difficulty which the customer or group encounter currently or will Assets held for sale are measured at the lower of the assets’ carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell. This assets are encounter in the future. Changes in the original terms of a credit risk can be made in the current contract or through a new not amortized and presented separately in the financial statements. In order to classify a tangible fixed asset as held for sale, contract. the asset (or the disposal group) should be available for an immediate sale in its present condition subject to the terms of any regular sales of such asset (or such disposal groups) and the sale should be highly probable. For a highly probable sale, Resturected Loans can be classified in standart loans unless the firm has difficulty in payment. Companies which have been the appropriate level of management must be committed to a plan to sell the asset (or the disposal groups), and an active restructured and refinanced can be removed from the watchlist when the following conditions are met: programme to complete should be initiated to locate a customer. Also the asset (or the disposal group) should have an active Subsequent to the through review of company’s financial data and its owners’ equity position, at circumstances when it is market sale value, which is a reasonable value in relation to its current fair value. Also, the sale is expected to be accounted not anticipated that the owner of the company will face financial difficulties; and it is assessed that the restructured debt as a completed sale beginning from one year after the classification date; and the essential procedures to complete the will be paid on time (starting from the date when the debt is restructured all due principal and interest payments are made plan should indicate the possibility of making significant changes on the plan or lower probability of cancelling. Events or on time). circumtances may extend the completion of the sale more than one year. At least 2 years should pass over the date of restructuring (or if it is later), the date of removal from non-performing loan category, at least 10% (or the ratio specified in the legislation) of the total principal amount at the time restructuring/ refinancing shall be paid and no overdue amount (principal and interest) shall remain at the date of restructuring/ refinancing. 346 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 347 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION THREE (Continued) SECTION THREE (Continued) ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) XII. Explanations on assets held for sale and discontinued operations (continued) XIV. Explanations on tangible assets (continued) Such assets are still classified as held for sale if there is sufficient evidence that the delay inthe sale process is due to the The positive difference between appraisement value and net book value of the property is accounted under shareholder’ events and circumtances occured beyond the control of the entity or the entry remains commited to its plan to sell the equity. Related valuation models such as cost model, market value and discounted cash flow projections approaches are used asset (or disposal group). As of 31 December 2019, there are assets held for sale and discontinued operations amounting in valuation of real estates. There is no pledge, mortgage or any other lien on tangible assets. Tangible assets are depreciated to TL 64.403 and explained in Section V, Note I.16. A discontinued operation is a component of a bank that either has been with straight-line method and their useful lives are determined in accordance with the Turkish Accounting Standards. disposed of, or is classified as held for sale. Gains or losses relating to discontinued operations are presented seperately in the income statement. Tangible Assets Expected Useful Lives (Years) Depreciation Rate (%) Cashvault 4-50 2-25 XIII. Explanations on goodwill and other intangible assets Vehicles 5 20 Buildings 50 2 Goodwill arising on the acquisition of a subsidiary or a jointly controlled entity represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the subsidiary or jointly controlled interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent Other Tangible Assets 1-50 2-100 liabilities of the subsidiary or jointly controlled entity recognized at the date of acquisition. Goodwill is initially recognized as an asset at cost and is subsequently measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. For the purpose of Investment Properties impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of the cash-generating units expected to benefit from the synergies of Investment properties are real estate held to earn rent income, gain in value or both. An investment property is recognized as the combination. Cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually, or more an asset if it is probable that future economic benefits related to the property will be available to operate and the cost of the frequently when there is an indication that the unit may be impaired. investment property can be reliably measured. The fair value model has been chosen for valuation of investment properties. If the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is Gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of investment properties are included in profit or loss in the period in allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit which they arise. pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit. An impairment loss recognized for goodwill is not XV. Explanations on leasing transactions reversed in a subsequent period. On disposal of a subsidiary or a jointly controlled entity, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal. Intangible assets that are acquired prior to 1 January 2005 The Group as Lessor are carried at restated historical cost as of 31 December 2004; and those acquired subsequently are carried at cost less accumulated amortization, and any impairment. Intangible assets are depreciated on a straight line basis over their expected Amounts due from lessees under finance leases are recorded as receivables at the amount of the Group’s net investment in useful lives. Depreciation method and period are reviewed periodically at the end of each year. Intangible assets are mainly the leases. The lease payments are allocated as principle and interest. Finance lease income is allocated to accounting periods composed of rights and they are depreciated principally on a straight-line basis between 1-15 years. so as to reflect a constant periodic rate of return on the Group’s net investment outstanding in respect of the leases. XIV. Explanations on tangible assets The Group as Lessee Tangible assets rather than real estate, purchased before 1 January 2005, are accounted for at their restated costs as of 31 Assets held under finance leases are recognized as assets of the Group at their fair value at the inception of the lease or, December 2004 and the assets purchased in the following periods are accounted for at acquisition cost less accumulated if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments. The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the depreciation and reserve for impairment. Gain or loss resulting from disposals of the tangible assets is reflected to the income balance sheet as a finance lease obligation. Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of statement as the difference between the net proceeds and net book value. the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability. Finance charges are included in profit or loss in accordance with the Group’s general policy on borrowing costs. Tangible assets acquired by As of the third quarter of 2015, the Group changed its accounting policy and adopted revaluation method on annual basis financial leases are amortized based on the useful lives of the assets. under scope of Standard on Tangible Fixed Assets (TAS 16) with respect to valuation of immovable included in its building and lands. The amortization periods of real estates are specified in the appraisal’s report. In case of the cost of tangible assets In accordance with TFRS 16, the lessee, at the effective date of the lease, measures the leasing liability on the present value of over the net realizable value estimated under the “Turkish accounting standards for impairment of assets” (TAS 36), the value the lease payments that were not paid at that date (leasing liability) and depreciates the existence of the right of use related of the asset is reduced to its “net realizable value” and are reserved impairment provision associated with expense accounts. to the same date. The lease payments shall be discounted using the interest rate implicit in the lease, if that rate can be readily determined. If that rate cannot be readily determined, the lessee shall use their incremental borrowing rate. The interest expense on the lease liability and the depreciation expense on right of use are recorded separately. 348 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 349 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION THREE (Continued) SECTION THREE (Continued) ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) XVI. Explanations on provisions and contingent liabilities XVII. Explanations on liabilities regarding employee benefits (continued) Provisions are recognized when there is a present obligation due to a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources After the publication of the reasoning of the cancellation decision of the Constitutional Court, articles related with the embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of transfer of banks pension fund participants to Social Security Institution based on Social Security Law numbered 5754 were the obligation. If aforesaid criteria did not form, the Group discloses the issues mentioned in notes to financial statements. accepted by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on 17 April 2008 and published in the Official Gazette No: 26870 on 8 Provisions are determined by using the Parent Bank’s best expectation of expenses in fulfilling the obligation, and discounted May 2008. to present value if material. Contingent assets consist of unplanned or other unexpected events that usually cause a possible inflow of economic benefits to the Group. Present value for the liabilities of the transferees as of the transfer date would be calculated by a commission that involves representatives of Social Security Institution, Ministry of Finance, Turkish Treasury, State Planning Organization, BRSA, SDIF, Explanations on contingent assets banks and banks’ pension fund institutions and technical interest rate, used in actuarial account, would be 9,80%. If salaries and benefits paid by the pension fund of banks and income and expenses of the pension funds in respect of the insurance Since recognition of the contingent assets in the financial statements would result in the accounting of an income, which branches, stated in the Law, exceeds the salaries and benefits paid under the regulations of Social Security Institution, such may never be generated, the related assets are not included in the financial statements; on the other hand, if the inflow of differences would be considered while calculating the present value for the liabilities of the transferees and the transfers are the economic benefits of these assets to the Parent Bank is probable, an explanation is made thereon in the footnotes of completed within 3 years beginning from 1 January 2008. the financial statements. Nevertheless, the developments related to the contingent assets are constantly evaluated and in case the inflow of the economic benefit to the Parent Bank is almost certain, the related asset and the respective income are According to the provisional Article 20 of 73th article of Law No. 5754 dated 17 April 2008, has become effective on 8 May recognized in the financial statements of the period in which the change occurred. 2008 and was published in the Official Gazette No: 26870, transfer of Pension Funds to Social Security Institution in three years has been anticipated. Related resolution of the Council of Ministers related to four-year extension was published in XVII. Explanations on liabilities regarding employee benefits the Official Gazette No: 28227 and Law no 5510 dated 8 March 2012. It has been resolved that the transfer process has been extended two year with Council of Ministers’ Decree, has become effective on 9 April 2011 and was published in the Official Severance pay according to the current laws and collective bargaining agreements in Turkey, is paid in case of retirement or Gazette No: 27900. The transfer had to be completed until 8 May 2013. Accordingly, it has been resolved that, one more dismissal. The Group calculates a provision for severance pay to allocate that employees need to be paid upon retirement or year extension with Council of Minister Decree No: 2013/467, has become effective on 3 May 2013 and was published in the involuntarily leaving by estimating the present value of probable amount. There is no indemnity obligations related to the Official Gazette No: 28636 and transfer need to be completed until 8 May 2014. However, it has been decided to extend the employees who are employed with contract of limited duration exceeding 12 month period. Actuarial gains and losses are time related to transfer by the decision of Council of Minister published in the Official Gazette No. 28987 dated 30 April 2014 accounted under Shareholder’s Equity since 1 January 2013 in accordance with the Revised TAS 19. for one more year due to not to realize the transfer process. In accordance with the Health and Safety Law which became Employees of the Parent Bank are members of “Türkiye Sınai Kalkınma Bankası Anonim Şirketi Memur ve Müstahdemleri effective on 4 April 2015 and published in the Official Gazette No: 29335 and law no 6645 and dated 23 April 2015 and Yardım ve Emekli Vakfı” and “Türkiye Sınai Kalkınma Bankası A.Ş. Mensupları Munzam Sosyal Güvenlik ve Yardımlaşma Vakfı” together with some amendments and statutory decree, Council of Ministers authorized for the determination of transfer date (“the Pension Fund”). Technical financial statements of those funds are subject to audit in accordance with the Insurance Law to the Social Security institution and the transfer of Pension Fund was postponed to an unknown date. There is no decision and provisions of “Regulations on Actuaries” issued based on the related law by an actuary registered in the Actuarial Registry. taken by the Cabinet with regards to issue at the date of financial statements. Unmet social benefits and payments of the pension fund participants and other employees that receive monthly income although they are within the scope of the Paragraph 1 of the provisional Article 23 of the Banking Act (“Banking Act”) No: 5411 published in the Official Gazette No: related settlement deeds would be met by pension funds and the institutions employ these participants after the transfer of 25983 on 1 November 2005 requires the transfer of banking funds to the Social Security Institution within 3 years as of the pension funds to the Social Security Institution. enactment date of the Banking Act. Under the Banking Act, in order to account for obligations, actuarial calculations will be made considering the income and expenses of those funds by a commission consisting of representatives from various institutions. Such calculated obligation shall be settled in equal instalments in maximum 15 years. Nonetheless, the related Article of the Banking Law was annulled by the Constitutional Court’s decision No: E. 2005/39 and K. 2007/33 dated 22 March 2007 that were published in the Official Gazette No: 26479 on 31 March 2007 as of the release of the related decision, and the execution of this article was cancelled as of its publication of the decision and the underlying reasoning for the cancellation of the related article was published in the Official Gazette No: 26731 on 15 December 2007. 350 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 351 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION THREE (Continued) SECTION THREE (Continued) ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) XVII. Explanations on liabilities regarding employee benefits (continued) XVIII. Explanations on taxation (continued) The present value of the liabilities, subject to the transfer to the Social Security Institution, of the Pension Fund as of 31 Transfer pricing December 2019 has been calculated by an independent actuary in accordance with the actuarial assumptions in the Law and as per actuarial report dated 17 January 2020. There is no need for technical or actual deficit to book provision as of Transfer pricing is regulated through article 13 of Corporate Tax Law titled “Transfer Pricing Through Camouflage of Earnings 31 December 2019. In addition, the Parent Bank’s management anticipates that any liability that may come out during the ”. Detailed information for the practice regarding the subject is found in the “General Communiqué Regarding Camouflage of transfer period and after, in the context expressed above, would be financed by the assets of the Pension Fund and would not Earnings Through Transfer Pricing”. According to the aforementioned regulations, in the case of making purchase or sales of cause any extra burden on the Parent Bank. goods or services with relevant persons/corporations at a price that is determined against “arm’s length principle”, the gain is considered to be distributed implicitly through transfer pricing and such distribution of gains is not subject to deductions in XVIII. Explanations on taxation means of corporate tax. The income tax charge is composed of the sum of current tax charge and deferred tax benefit or charge. The current tax XIX. Additional explanations on borrowings liability is calculated over taxable profit for the year. Taxable profit differs from profit as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible and it further excludes items that are never The Parent Bank borrows funds from domestic and foreign institutions borrowing from money market and issues marketable taxable or deductible. 22% is used in the calculation of the corporate tax (31 December 2018: 22%). In accordance with the securities in domestic and foreign markets when needed. The funds borrowed are recorded at their purchase costs and Temporary Article 10 added to the Corporate Tax Law, Corporate Tax applied as 22% for corporate earnings for the taxation valued at amortized costs using the effective interest method. Some of the securities issued by the Bank and resources used periods of 2018, 2019 and 2020. with fixed interest rates are subject to fair value hedge accounting. While the credit risk and rediscounted accumulated interest on hedging liabilities are recorded in the income statement under the interest expense, the credit risk and net Deferred tax asset or liability is recognized on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the amount excluding accumulated interest results from hedge accounting are accounted in the income statement under the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and currently enacted tax derivative financial instruments gains/losses by fair value. rates are used to determine deferred tax on income. Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognized for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognized for all deductible temporary differences to the extent that it is probable XX. Explanations on share certificates issued that taxable profits will be available against which those deductible temporary differences can be utilized. In the meeting of the General Assembly held on 28 March 2019, it has been resolved that the Parent Bank has no capital Such assets and liabilities are not recognized if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition increase. of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit. The carrying In the meeting of the General Assembly held on 23 March 2018, it has been resolved that, paid in capital of the Bank will be amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each reporting date. Deferred tax is reduced to the extent that it is no longer increased from TL 2.400.000 to TL 2.800.000 by adding TL 400.000. In respect of the resolution of the General Assembly, all of probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered. Deferred tax assets this increase will be incorporated from the profit of the year 2017. The increase in paid-in capital was approved by the BRSA and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period in which the liability is settled or the asset on 26 April 2018 and disclosed in the dated 7 June 2018 and numbered 9605 Turkish Trade Registy Gazette. realized and reflected in the income statement as expense or income. XXI. Explanations on acceptances Moreover, if the deferred tax is related with items directly recorded under the equity in the same or different period, deferred tax is also associated directly with equity. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are also offset. According to the second paragraph Acceptances are realized simultaneously with the payment dates of the customers and they are presented as commitments in of the Article 53 of the Banking Act No 5411 dated 19 October 2005, all specific reserves for loans and other receivables are the off-balance sheet accounts. considered as deductible expense for determining corporate tax base. XXII. Explanations on government incentives The Parent Bank started calculating deferred tax for the expected credit losses for stage 1 and stage 2. The Parent Bank does not use government incentives. XXIII. Explanations on segment reporting In accordance with its mission, the Parent Bank mainly operates in corporate and investment banking segments.The corporate banking is serving financial solutions and banking services for its medium and large-scale corporate customers. Services given to corporate customers are; investment credits, project financing, TL and foreign exchange operating loans, letters of credit, letters of guarantees and foreign trade transaction services covering letters of guarantee with external guarantees. 352 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 353 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION THREE (Continued) SECTION FOUR ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) INFORMATION ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT XXIII. Explanations on segment reporting (continued) I. Explanations related to consolidated shareholders’ equity Income from the activities of investment banking includes income from the operations of Treasury and Corporate Finance. Total capital and Capital adequacy ratio have been calculated in accordance with the “Regulation on Equity of Banks” and Under the investment banking activities, portfolio management for corporate, marketable securities intermediary activities, “Regulation on Measurement and Assessment of Capital Adequacy of Banks”. As of 31 December 2019, the capital adequacy cash flow management and all types of corporate finance services is provided. ratio of the Parent Bank has been calculated as 17,39% (31 December 2018: 15,99%). The segmental allocation of the Group’s net profit, total assets and total liabilities are shown below. Consolidated Consolidated CORE EQUITY TIER 1 CAPITAL Current Period Prior Period Current Period Corporate Banking Investment Banking Other Total Paid-in capital to be entitled for compensation after all creditors 2.800.374 2.800.374 Net Interest Income 658.794 1.273.043 (20.553) 1.911.284 Share premiums 530 516 Net Fees and Commission Income 26.162 3.596 35.345 65.103 Reserves 1.226.589 529.059 Other Income 13.780 78.468 92.248 Other comprehensive income according to TAS 479.966 397.130 Other Expense (475.376) (471.177) (188.609) (1.135.162) Profit 704.226 670.698 Profit Before Tax 223.360 805.462 (95.349) 933.473 Current Period Profit 730.504 670.756 Tax Provision (197.332) Prior Period Profit (26.278) (58) Net Profit 736.141 Bonus shares from associates, subsidiaries and joint-ventures not accounted in current period’s profit Group’s profit/loss 730.504 Minority shareholder 38.090 38.622 Minority share profit/loss 5.637 Core Equity Tier 1 Capital Before Deductions 5.249.775 4.436.399 Deductions from Core Equity Tier 1 Capital Current Period Corporate Banking Investment Banking Other Total Valuation adjustments calculated as per the 1st clause of article 9.(i) of the Regulation on Bank Capital Segment Assets 30.810.345 8.959.572 2.009.759 41.779.676 Current and prior periods’ losses not covered by reserves, and losses accounted under equity according Investment in Associates and to TAS 70.786 252.323 Subsidiaries 473.335 473.335 Leasehold improvements on operational leases 2.606 3.985 Total Assets 30.810.345 8.959.572 2.483.094 42.253.011 Goodwill (net of related tax liability) 1.005 Segment Liabilities 34.200.426 1.031.556 1.842.040 37.074.022 Other intangible assets other than mortgage-servicing rights (net of related tax liability) 4.069 4.872 Shareholders’ Equity 5.178.989 5.178.989 Deferred tax assets that rely on future profitability excluding those arising from temporary differences Total Liabilities 34.200.426 1.031.556 7.021.029 42.253.011 (net of related tax liability) Differences are not recognized at the fair value of assets and liabilities subject to hedge of cash flow risk Prior Period Corporate Banking Investment Banking Other Total Communiqué Related to Principles of the amount credit risk calculated with the Internal Ratings Based Net Interest Income 795.430 957.962 (24.674) 1.728.718 Approach, total expected loss amount exceeds the total provision Net Feesand Commission Income 20.698 (1.697) 32.397 51.398 Gains arising from securitization transactions Other Income 205.323 205.323 Unrealized gains and losses due to changes in own credit risk on fair valued liabilities Other Expense (512.293) (289.978) (269.522) (1.071.793) Net amount of defined benefit plans Investments in own common equity Profit Before Tax 303.835 666.287 (56.476) 913.646 Shares obtained against article 56, paragraph 4 of Banking Law Tax Provision (250.383) Total of net long positions of the investments in equity items of unconsolidated banks and financial Net Profit 663.263 institutions where the bank does not own 10% or less of the issued share capital exceeding the 10% Group’s profit/loss 670.756 threshold of above Tier I capital Minority share profit/loss (7.493) Total of net long positions of the investments in equity items of unconsolidated banks and financial Prior Period Corporate Banking Investment Banking Other Total institutions where the bank owns 10% or more of the issued share capital exceeding the 10% threshold Segment Assets 27.716.305 8.402.131 1.715.089 37.833.525 of above Tier I capital 31.177 Mortgage servicing rights not deducted Investment in Associates and Subsidiaries 435.915 435.915 Excess amount arising from deferred tax assets from temporary differences Amount exceeding 15% of the common equity as per the 2nd clause of the Provisional Article 2 of the Total Assets 27.716.305 8.402.131 2.151.004 38.269.440 Regulation on the Equity of Banks Segment Liabilities 31.320.591 933.391 1.831.382 34.085.364 Shareholders’ Equity 4.184.076 4.184.076 Total Liabilities 31.320.591 933.391 6.015.458 38.269.440 354 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 355 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION FOUR (Continued) SECTION FOUR (Continued) INFORMATION ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) INFORMATION ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) I. Explanations related to consolidated shareholders’ equity (continued) I. Explanations related to consolidated shareholders’ equity (continued) Excess amount arising from deferred tax assets from temporary differences Total of net long positions of the investments in equity items of unconsolidated banks and financial Excess amount arising from mortgage servicing rights institutions where the Bank owns 10% or less of the issued share capital exceeding the 10% threshold of above Common Equity Tier I capital (-) Excess amount arising from deferred tax assets based on temporary differences Total of net long positions of the investments in Tier II Capital items of unconsolidated banks and financial Other items to be defined by the BRSA institutions where the bank owns 10% or more of the issued share capital Deductions from Tier I capital in cases where there are no adequate additional Tier I or Tier II capitals Other items to be defined by the BRSA (-) Total Regulatory Adjustments to Tier 1 Capital 78.466 292.357 Total Deductions from Tier II Capital Core Equity Tier I Capital 5.171.309 4.144.042 Total Tier II Capital 2.279.212 1.901.952 ADDITIONAL TIER I CAPITAL Total Capital (The sum of Tier I Capital and Tier II Capital) 7.450.521 6.045.994 Preferred stock not ıncluded in core equity and related share premiums Deductions from Total Capital Debt instruments and the related issuance premiums defined by the BRSA Loans granted against the articles 50 and 51 of the banking law Debt instruments and the related issuance premiums defined by the BRSA (Temporary Article 4) Net book values of movables and immovables exceeding the limit defined in the article 57, clause 1 of the Banking law and the assets acquired against overdue receivables and held for sale but retained more than Shares of Third Parties in Additional Tier I Capital five years Shares of Third Parties in Additional Tier I Capital (Temporary Article 4) Other items to be defined by the BRSA Additional Tier I Capital before Deductions Items to be Deducted from sum of Tier I and Tier II (Capital) during the Transition Period Deductions from Additional Tier I Capital The Sum of net long positions of investments (the portion which exceeds the 10% of Banks Common Equity) Direct and indirect investments of the Bank in its own Additional Tier I Capital in the capital of banking, and financial entities that are outside the scope of regulatory consolidation, where Investments of Bank to Banks that invest in Bank’s additional equity and components of equity issued by the bank does not own more than 10% of the issued common share capital of the entity which will not financial institutions with compatible with Article 7. deducted from Common Equity Tier I capital, Additional Tier I capital, Tier II capital for the purposes of the Total of net long positions of the investments in equity items of unconsolidated banks and financial first sub-paragraph of the Provisional Article 2 of the Regulation on Banks’ Own Funds institutions where the bank owns 10% or less of the issued share capital exceeding the 10% threshold of The Sum of net long positions of investments in the Additional Tier I capital and Tier II capital of banking, above tier i capital and financial entities that are outside the scope of regulatory consolidation, where the bank does not own more than 10% of the issued common share capital of the entity which will not deducted from Common The total of net long position of the direct or indirect investments in additional Tier I capital of Equity Tier I capital, Additional Tier I capital, Tier II capital for the purposes of the first sub-paragraph of the unconsolidated banks and financial institutions where the bank owns more than 10% of the issued share Provisional Article 2 of the Regulation on Banks’ Own Funds capital The Sum of net long positions of investments in the common stock of banking, and financial entities that are Other items to be defined by the BRSA outside the scope of regulatory consolidation, where the bank does not own more than 10% of the issued Items to be Deducted from Tier I Capital during the Transition Period common share capital of the entity, mortgage servicing rights, deferred tax assets arising from temporary Goodwill and other intangible assets and related deferred tax liabilities which will not deducted from Core differences which will not deducted from Core Equity Tier I capital for the purposes of the first sub-paragraph Equity Tier 1 capital for the purposes of the first sub-paragraph of the Provisional Article 2 of the Regulation of the Provisional Article 2 of the Regulation on Banks’ Own Funds on Banks’ Own Funds (-) CAPITAL Net deferred tax asset/liability which is not deducted from Core Equity Tier 1 capital for the purposes of the Total Capital (Total of Tier I Capital and Tier II Capital) 7.450.521 6.045.994 sub-paragraph of the Provisional Article 2 of the Regulation on Banks’ Own Funds (-) Total Risk Weighted Assets 42.842.113 37.814.453 Deductions to be made from common equity in the case that adequate Additional Tier I Capital or Tier II CAPITAL ADEQUACY RATIOS Capital is not available (-) Consolidated Core Capital Adequacy Ratio (%) 12,07 10,96 Total Deductions From Additional Tier I Capital Consolidated Tier I Capital Adequacy Ratio (%) 12,07 10,96 Total Additional Tier I Capital Consolidated Capital Adequacy Ratio (%) 17,39 15,99 Total Tier I Capital (Tier I Capital=Core Equity Tier I Capital+Additional Tier I Capital) 5.171.309 4.144.042 BUFFERS Total buffer requirement (%) 2,510 1,883 TIER II CAPITAL Capital conservation buffer requirement (%) 2,500 1,875 Debt instruments and the related issuance premiums defined by the BRSA 1.774.800 1.540.500 Bank specific counter-cyclical buffer requirement (%) 0,010 0,008 Debt instruments and the related issuance premiums defined by the BRSA (Temporary Article 4) Systematic significant buffer (%) Provisions (Article 8 of the Regulation on the Equity of Banks) 504.412 361.452 The ratio of Additional Core Equity Tier I capital which will be calculated by the first paragraph of the Article 4 Shares of Third Parties in Tier II Capital of Regulation on Capital Conservation and Countercyclical Capital Buffers to risk weighted assets 6,07 4,96 Shares of Third Parties in Tier II Capital (Temporary Article 3) Amounts below the Excess Limits as per the Deduction Principles Tier II Capital Before Deductions 2.279.212 1.901.952 Total of net long positions of the investments in equity items of unconsolidated banks and financial Deductions From Tier II Capital institutions where the bank owns 10% or less of the issued share capital Total of net long positions of the investments in Tier I capital of unconsolidated banks and financial Direct and indirect investments of the Bank on its own Tier II Capital (-) institutions where the bank owns more than 10% or less of the issued share capital 491.777 413.659 Investments of Bank to Banks that invest on Bank’s Tier 2 and components of equity issued by financial Remaining mortgage servicing rights institutions with the conditions declared in Article 8. Excess amount arising from deferred tax assets from temporary differences 356 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 357 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION FOUR (Continued) SECTION FOUR (Continued) INFORMATION ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) INFORMATION ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) I. Explanations related to consolidated shareholders’ equity (continued) I. Explanations related to consolidated shareholders’ equity (continued) Limits Related to Provisions Considered in Tier II Calculation Details on Subordinated Liabilities General reserves for receivables where the standard approach used (before Issuer Türkiye Sınai Kalkınma Bankası A.Ş. tenthousandtwentyfive limitation) 554.358 361.452 Unique identifier (eg CUSIP, ISIN etc.) XS1584113184 Up to 1,25% of total risk-weighted amount of general reserves for receivables where the BRSA, Cominique on Subordinated Liabilities of CMB numbered CMBstandard approach used 504.412 361.452 Governing law(s) of the instrument II-31.1 Excess amount of total provision amount to credit risk amount of the Internal Ratings Based Regulatory treatment Approach in accordance with the Communiqué on the Calculation Subject to 10% deduction as of 1/1/2015 No Excess amount of total provision amount to 0,6% of risk weighted receivables of credit risk Eligible on unconsolidated and/or consolidated basis Eligible on unconsolidated and consolidated amount of the Internal Ratings Based Approach in accordance with the Communiqué on the Secondary subordinated loan which is categorized in subordinated Calculation Instrument type loans equalling bill of exchanges Amount recognized in regulatory capital (Currency in mil, as of Debt instruments subjected to Article 4 most recent reporting date Million USD) 300 (to be implemented between 1 January 2018 and 1 January 2022) Par value of instrument (Million USD) 300 Upper limit for Additional Tier I Capital subjected to temprorary Article 4 Accounting classification 347011 (Liability) Subordinated Debt Instruments Amounts Excess the Limits of Additional Tier I Capital subjected to temprorary Article 4 Original date of issuance 28 March 2017 Upper limit for Additional Tier II Capital subjected to temprorary Article 4 Perpetual or dated Dated Amounts Excess the Limits of Additional Tier II Capital subjected to temprorary Article 4 Original starting and maturity date 28 March 2017 29 March 2027 (10 years) Issuer call subject to prior supervisory approval Yes Optional call date, contingent call dates and redemption amount There is an early repayment option on 29 March 2022 (After 5th year) Explanations on the reconciliation between amounts related to equity items and on balance sheet Subsequent call dates, if applicable After 5th year only for once There are no differences between the amounts related to equity items and on balance sheet figures. Interest and Dividen Payments Fixed/semiannualy coupon payment, principal payment at the Fixed or floating dividend/coupon maturity Coupon rate and any related index 7,625% Existence of a dividend stopper None Fully discretionary, partially discretionary or mandatory None Existence of step up or other incentive to redeem None Noncumulative or cumulative Noncumulative Convertible or non-convertible If convertible, conversion trigger (s) None If convertible, fully or partially None If convertible, conversion rate None If convertible, mandatory or optional conversion None If convertible, specify instrument type convertible into None If convertible, specify issuer of instrument it converts into None Write-down feature According to number 5411 article, 71th article of Law of Banking and number 6102 article of Turkish Code of Commerce, if BRSA has seem in If write-down, write-down trigger(s) case of default. If write-down, full or partial Full or Partial If write-down, permanent or temporary Permanent If temporary write-down, description of write-up mechanism None Position in subordination hierarchy in liquidation (specify instrument type immediately senior to instrument) After the senior creditors, before the TIER 1 subdebt, same with TIER 2. In compliance with article number 7 and 8 of “Own fund regulation” Based on the conditions written on 8th article. Details of incompliances with article number 7 and 8 of “Own fund regulation” Not based on the conditions written on 7th article. 358 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 359 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION FOUR (Continued) SECTION FOUR (Continued) INFORMATION ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) INFORMATION ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) II. Explanations related to consolidated credit risk II. Explanations related to consolidated credit risk (continued) The sectoral breakdown of loans is documented monthly and limitations are made according to evaluations. There is no The first 100 and 200 largest cash loans constitute 72,86% and 91,90% of the total cash loans portfolio of the Group limitation applied geographically. Monitoring and checking is made for the treasury operations. Risk limits are identified for respectively (31 December 2018: 70,90% and 89,03%). the operations implemented. The first 100 and 200 largest non cash loans constitute 100% and 100% of the total non cash loans portfolio of the Group The credit monitoring department screens the creditworthiness of loan customers once every six months regularly. The respectively (31 December 2018: 100% and 100%). debtors’ creditworthiness is screened regularly in accordance with the related legislation. Their financial statements are obtained as prescribed in the legislation. The credit limits have been set by the Board of Directors, the Banks credit committee The first 100 and 200 largest cash and non cash loans constitute 72,29% and 91,31% of the total on and off balance sheet and the credit management. The Bank takes enough collateral for the loans and other receivables extended. The collaterals accounts of the Group respectively (31 December 2018: 70,30% and 88,82%). obtained consist of personal surety ship, mortgage, cash blockage and client checks. The Group calculated the expected credit loss provision amounting to TL 557.848 in accordance with TFRS 9 impairment Limits have also been set for transactions with banks. Credit risks are managed on the counterparty’s creditworthiness and model (31 December 2018: TL 364.231). limits. Credit risk is evaluated according to the Parent Bank’s internal rating. Non financial services customers included in credit The definitions of past due and impaired loans and information related to impairment and provisions are provided in Section portfolio are rated with respect to the Parent Bank’s internal rating and ratings of the financial services customers, which are Four, Note X. rated by external rating firms, are matched to the Parent Bank’s internal ratings. Total amount of exposures after offsetting transactions but before applying risk mitigations and the average exposure Information of credit amounts rated by internal rating model is given table below for the current period. amounts that are classified in different risk groups and types Loan Quality Categories Current Period Prior Period Current Period Prior Period Above Average Grade 9.281.586 8.454.861 Risk Average Risk Risk Average Risk Average Grade 20.299.648 19.216.471 Amount (1) Amount(2) Amount (1) Amount(2) Below Average Grade 5.408.531 3.132.445 Exposures to sovereigns and their central banks 7.542.220 6.970.101 6.245.307 6.036.196 Impaired (1) 1.109.953 600.174 Exposures to regional and local governments 3.000 3.000 3.000 3.000 Total 36.099.718 31.403.951 Exposures to administrative bodies and noncommercial (1) Loans belong to the financial subsidiaries subject to line-by-line consolidation method are considered as unrated. Impaired loans are presented in the table above. entities 5.988 31.219 11.946 4.126 Exposures to multilateral development banks As of the reporting date, the total of the Bank’s cash and non-cash loans and financial lease receivables (gross amount Exposures to international organizations including the non performing loans, excluding the expected credit losses) is TL 36.456.303 (31 December 2018 :TL 31.533.715) Exposures to banks and securities firms 3.395.950 4.796.142 3.824.818 3.612.202 and TL 356.585 (31 December 2018: TL 129.764) of these customers have not been rated. Exposures to corporates 55.099.741 52.164.134 47.310.220 42.081.652 The aging analysis of the receivables past due but not impaired in terms of financial asset classes, is as follows: Retail exposures Exposures secured by property 1.654.869 1.516.447 1.395.232 1.240.266 Current Period (1) Prior Period Past due receivables 749.429 555.963 427.721 237.052 3160 6190 3160 6190 Exposures in higher-risk categories 626.348 357.746 106.668 52.661 Days Days Other Total Days Days Other Total Exposures in the form of bonds secured by mortgages Corporate Loans 1.255 1.255 10.631 10.631 Securitization positions SME Loans 731 731 202 202 Short term exposures to banks, brokerage houses and Consumer Loans corporates Total 1.986 1.986 10.631 202 10.833 Equity investments in the form of collective investment (1) Only the overdue amounts of the loans included in the related items are included and the total credit amount of the related loans is TL 27.724. undertakings Equity investments 654.308 571.021 498.767 448.606 Other exposures 1.012.475 1.232.226 931.678 1.361.423 (1) Includes total risk amounts before the effect of credit risk mitigation. (2) Average risk amounts are the arithmetical average of the amounts in monthly reports prepared as per the Regulation on Measurement and Assessment of Capital Adequacy Ratios of Banks. 360 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 361 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION FOUR (Continued) INFORMATION ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) II. Explanations related to consolidated credit risk (continued) Profile of Significant Exposures in Major Region Risk Types (1) Risk Types (1) Short term Equity Exposures to Exposures to Exposures exposures investments sovereigns Exposures administrative Exposures to Exposures to Exposures in the form to banks, in the form and their to regional bodies and multilateral Exposures to banks and Exposures in higherof bonds brokerage of collective central and local noncommercial development international securities Exposures to Retail secured by Past due risk secured by houses and investment Equity Other Current Period banks governments entities banks organizations firms corporates exposures property receivables categories mortgages corporates undertakings investments exposures Total Domestic 7.516.926 3.000 1.198 1.924.631 31.566.989 1.651.791 749.429 77.654 592.086 766.283 44.849.987 European Union (EU) Countries 249.122 53.806 96.782 399.710 OECD Countries (2) 10.001 10.001 Off-Shore Banking Regions USA, Canada 172.899 172.899 Other Countries 123.972 123.972 Associates, Subsidiaries and Joint-Ventures 8.416 8.416 Unallocated Assets/ Liabilities (3) 1.460 52.416 53.876 Total 7.516.926 3.000 1.198 2.356.653 31.692.421 1.651.791 749.429 77.654 654.308 915.481 45.618.861 (1) Risk types in the Communiqué on “Measurement and Assessment of Capital Adequacy of Banks” have been used. Since there is no securitization position, risk class of “Securitization Positions” has not been included in the table. Includes risk amounts after the effect of credit risk mitigation and the credit conversion. (2) Includes OECD countries other than EU countries, USA and Canada. (3) Includes asset and liability items that cannot be allocated on a consistent basis. 362 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 363 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION FOUR (Continued) INFORMATION ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) II. Explanations related to consolidated credit risk (continued) Profile of Significant Exposures in Major Region (continued) Risk Types (1) Risk Types (1) Exposures Short term Equity to Exposures to Exposures Exposures exposures investments sovereigns Exposures administrative Exposures to to banks Exposures Exposures in the form to banks, in the form and their to regional bodies and multilateral Exposures to and Exposures secured in higherof bonds brokerage of collective central and local noncommercial development international securities to Retail by Past due risk secured by houses and investment Equity Other Prior Period banks governments entities banks organizations firms corporates exposures property receivables categories mortgages corporates undertakings investments exposures Total Domestic 6.283.170 600 2.389 2.301.918 27.935.798 1.388.579 427.721 1.114 52.251 570.328 38.963.868 European Union (EU) Countries 516.755 41.778 97.405 655.938 OECD Countries (2) 3.229 3.229 Off-Shore Banking Regions USA, Canada 100.763 100.763 Other Countries 109.969 109.969 Associates, Subsidiaries and Joint-Ventures 404.738 404.738 Unallocated Assets/ Liabilities (3) 1.283 47.585 48.868 Total 6.283.170 600 2.389 2.922.665 28.047.050 1.388.579 427.721 1.114 498.767 715.318 40.287.373 (1) Risk types in the Communiqué on “Measurement and Assessment of Capital Adequacy of Banks” have been used. Since there is no securitization position, risk class of “Securitization Positions” has not been included in the table. Includes risk amounts after the effect of credit risk mitigation and the credit conversion. (2) Includes OECD countries other than EU countries, USA and Canada. (3) Includes asset and liability items that cannot be allocated on a consistent basis. 364 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 365 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION FOUR (Continued) INFORMATION ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) II. Explanations related to consolidated credit risk (continued) Explanations related to credit risk (continued) Risk profile by sectors or counterparties Risk Types (1) Risk Types (1) Short term Equity Exposures to Exposures to Exposures exposures investments sovereigns Exposures administrative Exposures to Exposures to Exposures in the form to banks, in the form and their to regional bodies and multilateral Exposures to banks and Exposures in higherof bonds brokerage of collective central and local noncommercial development international securities Exposures to Retail secured by Past due risk secured by houses and investment Equity Other Current Period banks governments entities banks organizations firms corporates exposures property receivables categories mortgages corporates undertakings investments exposures TL FC Total Agriculture 34.935 2.790 340 29.284 8.781 38.065 Farming and Stockbreeding 34.935 2.790 28.944 8.781 37.725 Forestry 340 340 340 Fishery Manufacturing 20.658.810 372.166 670.336 77.654 1.304.441 20.474.525 21.778.966 Mining and Quarrying 577.828 16.880 594.708 594.708 Production 6.383.976 343.041 7.737 7 734.052 6.000.709 6.734.761 Electricity, Gas and Water 13.697.006 12.245 662.599 77.647 570.389 13.879.108 14.449.497 Construction 1.073.133 336.448 1.880 240.758 1.170.703 1.411.461 Services 804.012 1.128 2.356.653 9.732.880 928.324 74.423 654.308 96.863 3.001.001 11.647.590 14.648.591 Wholesale and Retail Trade 580.608 6.598 74.423 50 236.603 425.076 661.679 Accommodation and Dining 461.016 676.998 2.250 89.060 1.051.204 1.140.264 Transportation and Telecommunication 2.267.775 65.459 86.344 2.246.890 2.333.234 Financial Institutions 804.012 1.128 2.356.653 3.673.536 581.489 96.811 2.054.306 5.459.323 7.513.629 Real Estate and Rental Services 277.980 7.816 270.164 277.980 Professional Services 1.472.909 5.110 2 467.563 1.010.458 1.478.021 Educational Services 192.336 17.395 50.094 159.637 209.731 Health and Social Services 806.720 227.333 9.215 1.024.838 1.034.053 Others 6.712.914 3.000 70 192.663 14.853 818.278 5.307.892 2.433.886 7.741.778 Total 7.516.926 3.000 1.198 2.356.653 31.692.421 1.651.791 749.429 77.654 654.308 915.481 9.883.376 35.735.485 45.618.861 (1) Risk types in the Communiqué on “Measurement and Assessment of Capital Adequacy of Banks” have been used. Since there is no securitization position, risk class of “Securitization Positions” has not been included in the table. Includes risk amounts after the effect of credit risk mitigation and the credit conversion. 366 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 367 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION FOUR (Continued) INFORMATION ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) II. Explanations related to consolidated credit risk (continued) Explanations related to credit risk (continued) Risk profile by sectors or counterparties (continued) Risk Types (1) Risk Types (1) Short term Equity Exposures to Exposures Exposures exposures investments Exposures to Exposures administrative Exposures to to banks Exposures in the form to banks, in the form sovereigns to regional bodies and multilateral Exposures to and Exposures Exposures in higherof bonds brokerage of collective and their and local noncommercial development international securities to Retail secured by Past due risk secured by houses and investment Equity Other Prior Period central banks governments entities banks organizations firms corporates exposures property receivables categories mortgages corporates undertakings investments exposures TL FC Total Agriculture 77.627 340 33.050 44.917 77.967 Farming and Stockbreeding 77.627 32.710 44.917 77.627 Forestry 340 340 340 Fishery Manufacturing 18.424.244 390.215 417.732 1.114 1.024.780 18.208.525 19.233.305 Mining and Quarrying 574.527 16.880 12.155 579.252 591.407 Production 5.447.388 223.227 783.423 4.887.192 5.670.615 Electricity, Gas and Water 12.402.329 150.108 417.732 1.114 229.202 12.742.081 12.971.283 Construction 1.113.505 215.620 1.742 207.493 1.123.374 1.330.867 Services 743.202 2.324 2.922.665 7.970.253 767.165 8.247 498.767 178.019 2.385.996 10.704.646 13.090.642 Wholesale and Retail Trade 562.168 6.598 160 365 8.405 560.886 569.291 Accommodation and Dining 561.736 653.028 1.750 109.144 1.107.370 1.216.514 Transportation and Telecommunication 1.959.934 1.056 1.628 1.959.362 1.960.990 Financial Institutions 743.202 2.324 2.922.665 2.333.426 491.191 177.644 1.811.962 4.858.490 6.670.452 Real Estate and Rental Services 377.052 57.961 8.247 8.247 435.013 443.260 Professional Services 1.089.457 4.610 10 427.304 666.773 1.094.077 Educational Services 133.827 23.010 877 155.960 156.837 Health and Social Services 952.653 26.568 18.429 960.792 979.221 Others 5.539.968 600 65 461.421 15.579 536.959 4.476.456 2.078.136 6.554.592 Total 6.283.170 600 2.389 2.922.665 28.047.050 1.388.579 427.721 1.114 498.767 715.318 8.127.775 32.159.598 40.287.373 (1) Risk types in the Communiqué on “Measurement and Assessment of Capital Adequacy of Banks” have been used. Since there is no securitization position, risk class of “Securitization Positions” has not been included in the table. Includes risk amounts after the effect of credit risk mitigation and the credit conversion. 368 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 369 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION FOUR (Continued) SECTION FOUR (Continued) INFORMATION ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) INFORMATION ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) II. Explanations related to consolidated credit risk (continued) II. Explanations related to consolidated credit risk (continued) Analysis of maturity-bearing exposures according to remaining maturities Analysis of maturity-bearing exposures according to remaining maturities (continued) Risk Types Term to Maturity Risk Types Term to Maturity Current Period (1) 1 month 1-3 months 3-6 months 6-12 months Over 1 year Prior Period (1) 1 month 1-3 months 3-6 months 6-12 months Over 1 year Exposures to sovereigns and their central banks 843.155 358.011 391.497 158.809 4.875.385 Exposures to sovereigns and their central banks 747.991 45.012 312.004 513.776 4.619.586 Exposures to regional and local governments Exposures to regional and local governments Exposures to administrative bodies and Exposures to administrative bodies and noncommercial entities 1.128 noncommercial entities 2.324 Exposures to multilateral development banks Exposures to multilateral development banks -Exposures to international organizations Exposures to international organizations -Exposures to banks and securities firms 884.992 379.006 380.933 308.290 336.065 Exposures to banks and securities firms 1.726.232 261.034 44.950 803.585 Exposures to corporates 2.232.678 968.321 1.217.869 2.043.538 24.895.086 Exposures to corporates 1.058.391 764.440 837.867 1.646.756 23.532.190 Retail exposures Retail exposures Exposures secured by property 15.553 30.821 1.605.416 Exposures secured by property 395 63.006 18.081 1.307.096 Past due receivables Past due receivables -Exposures in higher-risk categories 7.920 292 140 41.989 Exposures in higher-risk categories 1.114 Exposures in the form of bonds secured by mortgages Exposures in the form of bonds secured by Securitization positions mortgages Short term exposures to banks, brokerage houses and Securitization positions corporates Short term exposures to banks, brokerage houses and Equity investments in the form of collective corporates investment undertakings Equity investments in the form of collective Equity investments investment undertakings Other exposures 140.927 247 13.190 Equity investments Total 4.110.800 1.705.630 2.006.099 2.541.598 31.767.131 Other exposures 1.579 518 21.631 Total 3.536.912 1.070.486 1.257.827 2.179.131 30.285.202 (1) Includes risk amounts after the effect of credit risk mitigation and the credit conversion. (1) Includes risk amounts after the effect of credit risk mitigation and the credit conversion. 370 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 371 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION FOUR (Continued) SECTION FOUR (Continued) INFORMATION ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) INFORMATION ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) II. Explanations related to consolidated credit risk (continued) II. Explanations related to consolidated credit risk (continued) Credit risk under standard approach Exposures by risk weights The ratings given by international credit rating agency Fitch Ratings are used to determine the risk weights in capital Current Period adequacy calculation regarding exposures to banks and securities firms and central sovereigns and central bank. Receivables Deducted from residents in Turkey are classified as unrated. These credit ratings are not used for the instruments issued by the debtor. from Risk Weights 0% 10% 20% 50% 75% 100% 150% 200% 250% Equity Ratings given by Fitch Ratings are matched with credit quality levels and risk weights based on risk classes as shown in the Exposures Before Credit following table: Risk Mitigation (1) 5.098.040 1.430.240 477.560 38.135.325 79.240 491.777 7.680 Exposures After Credit Risk Types Risk Mitigation 5.245.019 1.430.240 2.129.351 36.243.234 79.240 491.777 7.680 Claims on Banks and Capital Market (1) The figures represent total risk amounts before credit risk mitigation and after credit conversion factor. Intermediary Claims with Claims with Prior Period Original Original Claims on Deducted Credit Quality Claims on Maturities Less Maturities More Corporate from Grades Fitch Ratings Sovereigns Than 3 Months Than 3 Months Receivables Risk Weights 0% 10% 20% 50% 75% 100% 150% 200% 250% Equity AAA Exposures Before Credit Risk Mitigation (1) 4.467.367 1.132.570 721.429 33.690.867 2.565 413.659 40.034 AA+ 1 Exposures After Credit AA Risk Mitigation 4.654.759 1.132.570 2.111.562 31.972.258 2.565 413.659 40.034 AA0% 20% 20% 20% (1) The figures represent total risk amounts before credit risk mitigation and after credit conversion factor. A+ 2 A Information of major sectors or type of counterparties A20% 20% 50% 50% BBB+ The Parent Bank’s all impaired and non-performing receivables comprise of domestic receivables. 3 BBB Current Period Loans (1) Provisions BBB50% 20% 50% 100% Major Sectors/Counterparties Impaired Expected Credit BB+ Significant Increase in Defaulted Losses 4 BB Credit Risk (Stage 2) (Stage 3) (TFRS 9) Agriculture 27.898 25.108 BB100% 50% 100% 100% Farming and Stockbreeding 27.898 25.108 B+ Forestry 5 B Fishery B100% 50% 100% 150% Manufacturing 1.650.408 957.369 465.954 CCC+ Mining and Quarrying 196 196 CCC Production 336.505 18.277 38.327 Electricity, Gas and Water 1.313.903 938.896 427.431 CCC6 Services 1.547.731 117.890 205.151 CC Wholesale and Retail Trade 69.088 108.615 53.538 C Accommodation and Dining 719 719 D 150% 150% 150% 150% Transportation and Telecommunication 164.354 64 53.293 Unrated Unrated 100% 20% (1) 50% (1) 100% Financial Institutions 2.504 2.504 Real Estate, Rental and Management Services 926.288 5.814 46.196 (*) Used in case when the risk weight of the sovereign of the Bank’s country is not higher. Professional Services 174 174 Educational Services Health and Social Services 388.001 48.727 Others 201.212 4.615 12.937 Total 3.399.351 1.107.772 709.150 (1) Includes breakdown of cash loans and financail lease receivables. 372 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 373 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION FOUR (Continued) SECTION FOUR (Continued) INFORMATION ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) INFORMATION ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) II. Explanations related to consolidated credit risk (continued) II. Explanations related to consolidated credit risk (continued) Information of major sectors or type of counterparties (continued) Exposures Subject to Countercyclical Capital Buffer Current Period Loans (1) Provisions The geographical distribution of receivables from the private sector taken into account for Calculation of Bank specific Major Sectors/Counterparties Impaired Counter Cyclical Capital Buffer with the scope of Capital Conservation and Counter-Cyclical Capital Buffers Regulation which Significant is published on the Official Gazette no.28812 dated 5 November 2013 and sub arrangements is given table below. Increase in Expected Credit Credit Risk Defaulted Losses Information about receivables from consolidated private sector: (Stage 2) (Stage 3) (TFRS 9) Current Period Agriculture Private Sector Risk Weighted Amount Farming and Stockbreeding Country risk taken ultimately Loans in Banking Book calculations for Trading Book Total Forestry United States 39.819 39.819 Fishery Georgia 123.972 123.972 Manufacturing 1.541.322 563.077 261.213 England 51.710 51.710 Mining and Quarrying 195 195 Turkey 37.527.324 37.527.324 Production 179.778 6.975 23.552 Total 37.742.825 37.742.825 Electricity, Gas and Water 1.361.544 555.907 237.466 Services 940.633 25.302 97.452 Prior Period Wholesale and Retail Trade 1.236 1.236 Private Sector Risk Weighted Amount Accommodation and Dining 2.378 738 791 Country risk taken ultimately Loans in Banking Book calculations for Trading Book Total Transportation and Telecommunication 136.988 57 15.811 United States 5.823 5.823 Financial Institutions 2.504 2.504 Georgia 109.969 109.969 Real Estate, Rental and Management Services 801.267 20.618 76.961 England 62.733 62.733 Professional Services 149 149 Turkey 32.608.375 32.608.375 Educational Services Total 32.786.900 32.786.900 Health and Social Services Others 170.944 8.831 21.964 Total 2.652.899 597.210 380.629 (1) Includes breakdown of cash loans. Information related with value adjustments and loan loss provisions Opening Provision for Provision Other Closing Current Period balance the period reversals adjustments balance Stage 3 Provisions 169.489 198.069 (9.215) 358.343 Stage 1-2 Provisions 364.231 193.648 31 557.848 Opening Provision for Provision Other Closing Prior Period balance the period reversals adjustments balance Stage 3 Provisions 52.078 108.311 (9.100) 169.489 Stage 1-2 Provisions 150.769 213.547 (85) 364.231 374 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 375 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION FOUR (Continued) SECTION FOUR (Continued) INFORMATION ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) INFORMATION ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) III. Explanations related to consolidated currency risk III. Explanations related to consolidated currency risk (continued) No long or short position is taken due to the uncertainties and changes in the markets therefore; no exposure to foreign Information on the Group’s foreign currency risk: currency risk is expected. However, possible foreign currency risks are calculated on monthly basis under the standard Euro US Dollar Other FC Total method in the foreign currency risk table and their results are reported to the official authorities and the Parent Bank’s top Current Period management. Thus, foreign currency risk is closely monitored. Foreign currency risk, as a part of general market risk, is also Assets taken into consideration in the calculation of Capital Adequacy Standard Ratio. Cash (Cash in Vault, Foreign Currency Cash, Money in Transit, Checks Purchased, Precious Metals) and Balances with the Central Bank of No short position is taken regarding foreign currency risk, whereas, counter position is taken for any foreign currency risks Turkey 326.415 477.113 803.528 arising from customer transactions as to avoid foreign currency risk. Banks 164.909 71.655 8.155 244.719 Financial Assets at Fair Value Through Profit and Loss (1) 74.570 378.039 1.012 453.621 Announced current foreign exchange buying rates of the Parent Bank as at reporting date and the previous five working days Money Market Placements in US Dollar and Euro are as follows: Available-For-Sale Financial Assets 61.199 1.915.940 1.977.139 Loans (2) 13.526.294 14.764.672 28.290.966 1 US Dollar 1 Euro Subsidiaries, Associates and Entities Under Common Control (Joint The Parent Bank’s “Foreign Exchange Valuation Rate” Vent.) 31 December 2019 5,9160 6,6289 Held-To-Maturity Investments 299.266 299.266 Prior Five Workdays: Derivative Financial Assets for Hedging Purposes 67.884 67.884 Tangible Assets 30 December 2019 5,9150 6,6213 Intangible Assets 27 December 2019 5,9075 6,5697 Other Assets (3) 76.468 323.092 399.560 26 December 2019 5,9100 6,5547 Total Assets 14.229.855 18.297.661 9.167 32.536.683 25 December 2019 5,9140 6,5560 Liabilities Bank Deposits 24 December 2019 5,9100 6,5539 Foreign Currency Deposits Money Market Borrowings 128.954 533.218 662.172 Simple arithmetic thirty-day averages of the US Dollar and Euro buying rates of the Parent Bank before the reporting date are Funds Provided From Other Financial Institutions 12.069.597 13.923.090 (1) 25.992.686 full TL 5,8183 and 6,4652 respectively. Marketable Securities Issued (4) 7.853.495 7.853.495 Miscellaneous Payables 14.661 68.890 869 84.420 Derivative Financial Liabilities for Hedging Purposes (5) 16.545 16.545 Other Liabilities (6) 84.827 117.881 494 203.202 Total Liabilities 12.298.039 22.513.119 1.362 34.812.520 Net Balance Sheet Position 1.931.816 (4.215.458) 7.805 (2.275.837) Net Off-Balance Sheet Position (2.069.575) 4.460.081 (7.788) 2.382.718 Financial Derivative Assets 1.037.523 7.074.810 149.898 8.262.231 Financial Derivative Liabilities (3.107.098) (2.614.729) (157.686) (5.879.513) Non-Cash Loans (7) 1.806.354 2.287.913 2.715 4.096.982 Prior Period Total Assets 12.936.144 16.929.784 17.433 29.883.361 Total Liabilities 11.680.697 20.977.642 1.330 32.659.669 Net Balance Sheet Position 1.255.447 (4.047.858) 16.103 (2.776.308) Net Off -Balance Sheet Position (1.373.555) 3.956.152 (14.992) 2.567.605 Financial Derivative Assets 1.902.722 6.761.213 153.506 8.817.441 Financial Derivative Liabilities (3.276.277) (2.805.061) (168.498) (6.249.836) Non-Cash Loans (7) 1.351.786 1.334.076 2.685.862 (1) Exchange rate differences arising from derivative transactions amounting to TL 50.658 is deducted from “Financial Assets at Fair Value Through Profit and Loss”. (2) Loans include TL 1.550.351 foreign currency indexed loans, TL 128.874 financial lease receivables, TL 637.135 non-performing loans, and TL (154.436) credit-impaired losses (stage III/specific provision). (3) Prepaid expenses amounting to TL 1.628, 12 months expected credit loss for other assets amounting to TL (1.041) are not included other assets. (4) Includes Tier 2 subordinated bonds which are classified on the balance sheet as subordinated loans. (5) Derivative financial liabilities for hedging purposes has classified in line of derivative financial liabilities in financial statement. (6) Marketable securities value increase fund amounting to TL (3.356), exchange rate differences arising from derivative transactions amounting to TL 45.751, forward foreign exchange purchase transaction rediscounts amounting to TL 24, and other provisions amounting to TL 22.070 have not been included in “Other Liabilities”. (7) Has no effect on net off-balance sheet position. 376 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 377 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION FOUR (Continued) SECTION FOUR (Continued) INFORMATION ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) INFORMATION ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) III. Explanations related to consolidated currency risk (continued) IV. Explanations related to consolidated interest rate risk (continued) The Group is mostly exposed to Euro, US Dollars and other foreign currencies. Information related to the interest rate sensitivity of assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet items (based on repricing dates) The following tables detail the Group’s sensitivity to 10% increase/decrease in the TL against US Dollar, Euro and other currencies. 5 Years NonUp to 1 1-3 3-12 1-5 and interest Increase in Currency Rate Effect on Profit/Loss (1) Effect on Equity (2) Current Period Month Months Months Years Over bearing (1) Total % Current Period Prior Period Current Period Prior Period Assets US Dollar 10 23.918 (9.715) 544 544 Cash (Cash in Vault, Foreign Currency Cash, Money in Transit, Checks Euro 10 (13.807) (11.842) 31 31 Purchased) and Balances with the Other 10 2 111 Central Bank of Turkey(2) 803.582 30 803.612 Banks (2) 105.873 106.217 45.218 257.308 Decrease in Currency Rate Effect on Profit/Loss (1) Effect on Equity (2) Financial Assets at Fair Value Through % Current Period Prior Period Current Period Prior Period Profit and Loss (3) 187.104 401.575 320.280 156.641 168.514 7.135 1.241.249 US Dollar 10 (23.918) 9.715 (544) (544) Money Market Placements (2) 252.767 273.232 252 526.251 Euro 10 13.807 11.842 (31) (31) Financial Assets at Fair Value Through Other 10 (2) (111) Other Comprehensive Income(2) 159.716 436.915 1.147.301 1.646.055 679.717 116.569 4.186.273 Loans (2) 5.613.551 7.365.035 8.697.347 5.230.649 3.855.703 30.762.285 (1) Values expressed are before the tax effect. (2) Effect on equity does not include effect on profit/loss. Financial Assets Measured at Amortized Cost (2) 338.296 994.092 950.535 298.876 2.581.799 IV. Explanations related to consolidated interest rate risk Other Assets (2) 64.403 1.829.831 1.894.234 Total Assets 7.460.889 9.577.066 11.115.715 7.097.748 5.002.810 1.998.783 42.253.011 Interest rate sensitivity of the assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet items are measured by the Parent Bank. General and specific interest rate risk tables in the standard method, by including assets and liabilities, are taken into account in Liabilities determination of the Capital Adequacy Standard Ratio and to calculate the overall interest rate risk of the Parent Bank. Bank Deposits Forecast results which have been formed using estimation-simulation reports are prepared and then the effects of Other Deposits fluctuations in interest rates are evaluated with sensitivity and scenario analyzes. Cash requirement for every maturity period Money Market Borrowings 1.197.709 (342) 1.197.367 are determined based on maturity distribution analysis (Gap). In addition, a positive spread between the yield on assets and Miscellaneous Payables 128.262 128.262 the cost of liabilities is kept while determining interest rates. Marketable Securities Issued (4) 108.662 2.087.826 5.765.669 145.256 8.107.413 Funds Provided from Other Financial The amount of local borrowings is very low considering the total liabilities of the Parent Bank. As the Parent Bank is a Institutions 3.892.357 6.211.730 9.490.539 2.692.067 4.341.632 26.628.325 development and investment bank, it obtains most of the funding from abroad. Other Liabilities 130.310 222.183 127.051 47.605 5.664.495 6.191.644 Total Liabilities 5.220.376 6.542.575 11.705.416 8.505.341 4.341.632 5.937.671 42.253.011 The fluctuations in interest rates are controlled with interest rate risk tables, gap analysis, scenario analysis and stress tests, its effect in assets and liabilities and the probable changes in cash flows are being screened. The Parent Bank screens many risk Balance Sheet Long Position 2.240.513 3.034.491 661.178 5.936.182 control ratio including the markets risk ratio to the sum of risk weighted assets and the ratio of the value at risk calculated as Balance Sheet Short Position (589.701) (1.407.593) (3.938.888) (5.936.182) per the internal model to the equity. Off-Balance Sheet Long Position 4.035.583 673.362 4.708.945 Under the scope of risk policies, continuous controls are made to prevent assets or shareholders’ equity from adverse effects Off-Balance Sheet Short Position (1.184.952) (1.317.889) (1.773.188) (4.276.029) because of fluctuations in interest rates or liquidity difficulties and top management, the Board of Directors and the Audit Total Position 1.055.561 1.716.602 (2.362.889) 2.627.990 1.334.540 (3.938.888) 432.916 Committee are informed of these risks. (1) Amounts in investments in associates and subsidiaries, deferred tax asset, tangible and intangible assets, other assets, other miscellenous liabilities, shareholders’ equity, provisions and tax liability are presented in non-interest bearing column, in order to reconcile the total assets and liabilities on the balance sheet. (2) Expected credit losses for stage 1 and stage 2 are netted off on the related maturity. (3) Derivative financial assets and Loans measured at fair value through profit or loss. (4) Includes Tier 2 subordinated bonds which are classified on the balance sheet as subordinated loans. 378 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 379 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION FOUR (Continued) SECTION FOUR (Continued) INFORMATION ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) INFORMATION ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) IV. Explanations related to consolidated interest rate risk (continued) IV. Explanations related to consolidated interest rate risk (continued) Information related to the interest rate sensitivity of assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet items Average interest rates applied to monetary financial instruments: % (based on repricing dates) (continued) Euro US Dollar Yen TL 5 Years NonCurrent Period 1-3 3-12 1-5 and interest Assets Prior Period 1 Month Months Months Years Over bearing (1) Total Cash (Cash in Vault, Foreign Currency Cash, Money in Transit, Assets Checks Purchased) and Balances with the Central Bank of Cash (Cash in Vault, Foreign Turkey Currency Cash, Money in Transit, Banks 0,80 1,55 7,60 Checks Purchased) and Balances with the Central Bank of Turkey(2) 423.408 319.577 742.985 Financial Assets at Fair Value Through Profit and Loss(2) 10,05 14,70 Banks(2) 659.844 90.342 56.811 806.997 Money Market Placements 13,49 Financial Assets at Fair Value Available-for-Sale Financial Assets 4,24 4,76 17,49 Through Profit and Loss (3) 284.565 438.541 503.145 52.037 1.452 1.279.740 Loans 4,59 6,72 17,04 Money Market Placements(2) 358.064 170.576 44.950 573.590 Financial Assets Measured at Amortized Cost 5,59 12,45 Financial Assets at Fair Value Liabilities Through Other Comprehensive Income(2) 131.914 92.670 1.341.530 1.538.414 221.517 94.025 3.420.070 Bank Deposits Loans(2) 5.553.655 6.842.331 8.791.312 5.423.543 942.241 27.553.082 Other Deposits Financial Assets Measured at Money Market Borrowings 0,12 2,24 10,96 Amortized Cost (2) 311.618 904.733 672.132 264.830 2.153.313 Miscellaneous Payables Other Assets(2) 1.739.663 1.739.663 Marketable Securities Issued (1) 5,71 13,10 Total Assets 7.723.068 8.539.193 11.353.069 7.013.994 1.428.588 2.211.528 38.269.440 Borrower Funds 0,10 1,25 7,50 Funds Provided From Other Financial Institutions 1,11 2,88 10,79 Liabilities (1) Includes Tier 2 subordinated bonds which are classified on the balance sheet as subordinated loans. Bank Deposits (2) Includes Loans at Fair value through profit or loss. Other Deposits Money Market Borrowings 402.184 94 402.278 Miscellaneous Payables 65.568 65.568 Marketable Securities Issued (4) 1.797.030 6.701.933 8.498.963 Funds Provided from Other Financial Institutions 4.365.770 8.445.071 4.753.669 3.985.813 2.269.347 23.819.670 Other Liabilities 232.024 262.990 284.877 45.164 4.657.906 5.482.961 Total Liabilities 4.999.978 8.708.155 6.835.576 10.732.910 2.269.347 4.723.474 38.269.440 Balance Sheet Long Position 2.723.090 4.517.493 7.240.583 Balance Sheet Short Position (168.962) (3.718.916) (840.759) (2.511.946) (7.240.583) Off-Balance Sheet Long Position 2.024 2.235 6.677.488 541.315 7.223.062 Off-Balance Sheet Short Position (1.718.241) (1.897.660) (3.335.297) (6.951.198) Total Position 1.006.873 (2.064.387) 1.182.196 2.958.572 (299.444) (2.511.946) 271.864 (1) Amounts in investments in associates and subsidiaries, deferred tax asset, tangible and intangible assets, other assets, other miscellenous liabilities, shareholders’ equity, provisions and tax liability are presented in non-interest bearing column, in order to reconcile the total assets and liabilities on the balance sheet. (2) Expected credit losses for stage 1 and stage 2 are netted off on the related maturity. (3) Derivative financial assets and Loans measured at fair value through profit or loss. (4) Includes Tier 2 subordinated bonds which are classified on the balance sheet as subordinated loans. 380 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 381 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION FOUR (Continued) SECTION FOUR (Continued) INFORMATION ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) INFORMATION ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) IV. Explanations related to consolidated interest rate risk (continued) V. Explanations related to consolidated stock position risk (continued) Average interest rates applied to monetary financial instruments in prior period: % Equity shares risk due from banking book (continued) Euro US Dollar Yen TL On the basis of the following table, private equity investments in sufficiently diversified portfolios, type and amount of other Prior Period risks, cumulative realized gains and losses arising from selling and liquidation in the current period, total unrealized gains and Assets losses, total revaluation increases of trading positions on stock market and their amount that included to core capital and Cash (Cash in Vault, Foreign Currency Cash, Money in Transit, Checks supplementary capital are shown. Purchased) and Balances with the Central Bank of Turkey 2,10 11,35 Revaluation Value Banks 2,90 2,30 22,92 Current Period Increases Unrealized Gains and Losses Financial Assets at Fair Value Through Profit Realized Included in and Loss (2) 10,05 27,62 Revenues and Included in Included in Supplementary Money Market Placements 24,59 Portfolio Losses in Period Total Core Capital Total Core Capital Capital Available-for-Sale Financial Assets 5,62 4,32 16,94 Private Equity Investments 38.832 38.832 Loans 4,49 7,46 19,10 Share Certificates Quoted on Financial Assets Measured at Amortized Cost 6,77 16,76 a Stock Exchange Liabilities Other Share Certificates Bank Deposits Total 38.832 38.832 Other Deposits Money Market Borrowings 0,75 1,50 22,59 Revaluation Value Prior Period Increases Unrealized Gains and Losses Miscellaneous Payables Realized Included in Marketable Securities Issued(1) 5,71 Revenues and Included in Included in Supplementary Borrower Funds 0,75 1,50 15,00 Portfolio Losses in Period Total Core Capital Total Core Capital Capital Funds Provided From Other Financial Institutions 1,07 3,29 10,30 Private Equity Investments (1) Includes Tier 2 subordinated bonds which are classified on the balance sheet as subordinated loans. Share Certificates Quoted on (2) Includes Loans at Fair value through profit or loss. a Stock Exchange (456) (456) V. Explanations related to consolidated stock position risk Other Share Certificates 40.468 40.468 Total 40.012 40.012 The Group is exposed to equity shares risk arising from investments on firms traded in Borsa Istanbul (BIST). Share certificate investments are almost used for trading purpose. However, these investments are not actively bought/sold by the Group. The Group classified its share certificate investments both as available for sale and as trading securities and net profit/loss of the Group is not affected unless the Group sell share certificates in portfolio of available for sale. Equity shares risk due from banking book Below is the comparison table of the Group’s share certificate instruments’ book value, fair value and market value. Current Period Comparison Share Certificate Investments Book Value Fair Value Market Value Investment in Shares-Grade A 416.906 889.837 Quoted 416.906 889.837 Prior Period Comparison Share Certificate Investments Book Value Fair Value Market Value Investment in Shares-Grade A 373.145 980.592 Quoted 373.145 980.592 382 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 383 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION FOUR (Continued) SECTION FOUR (Continued) INFORMATION ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) INFORMATION ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) VI. Consolidated liquidity risk management and coverage ratio VI. Consolidated liquidity risk management and coverage ratio (continued) 1. Explanations related to the consolidated liquidity risk 1. Explanations related to the consolidated liquidity risk (continued) 1.a Information about the governance of consolidated liquidity risk management, including: risk tolerance; structure 1.d Information on consolidated liquidity risk mitigation techniques: and responsibilities for consolidated liquidity risk management; internal consolidated liquidity reporting; and communication of consolidated liquidity risk strategy, policies and practices across business lines and with the board Liquidity limits are defined for the purpose of monitoring and keeping the risk under certain levels. The Bank monitors those of directors limits’ utilization and informs the Board of Directors, the Bank Senior Management and the relevant departments regularly. Regarding those limits, the Treasury Department performs the required transactions with the relevant cost and term Liquidity risk management is conducted by Treasury Department in line with the strategies set by Asset and Liability composition in accordance with market conditions from the sources previously defined in Article C. The Bank minimizes the Committee within the limits and policies approved by Board of Directors, and is monitored and controlled through reportings liquidity risk by holding high quality liquid assets and diversification of funds. from Risk Management, Budget Planning and Financial Control Departments to Audit Committee, Board of Directors, Senior Management and relevant departments. The Bank’s liquidity risk capacity is determined by the Bank’s internal limits and the 1.e Information on the use of stress tests regulations on liquidity coverage ratio and liquidity adequacy. Regarding it’s risk appetite, in addition to legal limits, the Bank Within the scope of liquidity stress tests, the deteriorations that may occur in the cash flow structure of the Bank are assessed also applies internal limits for monitoring and controlling the liquidity risk. by the Bank’s scenarios. The results are analyzed by taking into account the risk appetite and capacity of the Bank and Considering the Bank’s strategies and competitive conditions, Asset and Liability Committee has the responsibility of taking reported to the senior management by the Risk Management Department ensuring the necessary actions are taken. the relevant decisions regarding optimal balance sheet management of the Bank, and monitoring the implementations. 1.f General information on urgent and unexpected consolidated liquidity situation plans: Treasury Department performs cash position management within the framework of the decisions taken at Asset and Liability Committee meetings.The Risk Management Department reports to the Board of Directors and the Asset and Liability There is a Contingency Funding Plan for the contingent periods that arises beyond the Parent Bank’s control. In a potential Committee regarding liquidity risk within the scope of internal limits and legal regulations. Additionnally, liquidity stress liquidity shortfall, Treasury Department is responsible from assessment, taking relevant actions and informing Parent Bank’s tests are performed based on various scenarios and reported with their impact on legal limit utilization. Treasury Control Unit Asset and Liability Committee. In contingent cases, to identify the liquidity risk arising, cashflow projections and funding under the Budget Planning and Investor Relations Department also makes cash flow projection reportings to the Treasury requirement estimations are exercised based on various scenarios. To assess the stress scenarios, cashflow in terms of local Department and the Asset Liability Committee at certain periods and when needed. currency is monitored regularly by Treasury Department. Scenario analysis on the Parent Bank’s unencumbered sources are conducted daily. Transaction limits for organized markets are monitored timely and essential collateral amount to trade in 1.b Information on the centralization degree of consolidated liquidity management and funding strategy and the those markets is withheld at hand. Repo transactions and/or available for sale portfolio securities in local and foreign currency functioning between the Parent Bank and the Parent Bank’s subsidiaries that are major funding sources in shortfall periods for the Parent Bank are monitored consistently. In contingent periods Within the scope of consolidation, liquidity management is not centralized and each subsidiary is responsible for its own outflows due to the irrevocable commitments, contingencies and derivative transactions can be deferred temporarily in a liquidity management. However, the Bank monitors the liquidity risk of each subsidiary within the defined limits. way that won’t hurt the Bank’s reputation. TSKB has the optionality of choosing one or more of the following for meeting it’s liquidity requirement that are selling liquid assets off, increasing short term borrowing, decreasing illiquid assets, increasing 1.c Information on the Parent Bank’s funding strategy including the policies on funding types and variety of capital. maturities Among the main funding sources of the Parent Bank, there are development bank credits, capital market transactions, syndicated loans, bilateral contractual resources, repo transactions and money market transactions and these sources are diversified to minimize the liquidity risk within the terms of market conditions. The funding planning based on those loans is performed long term such as a minimum of one year and the performance is monitored by the Asset and Liability Committee. 1.ç Information on liquidity management on the basis of currencies constituting a minimum of five percent of the Parent Bank’s total liabilities: The Bank’s obligations consist of Turkish Lira (TRY), US Dollar (USD) and Euro (EUR) currency types. Turkish Lira obligations mainly consist of equity and repurchase agreements, whereas foreign currency obligations consist of foreign currency credits, securities issued and repurchase agreements. All loans provided from foreign sources are in foreign currencies. For this reason, foreign resources can be used in TL funding by currency swap transactions when necessary. 384 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 385 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION FOUR (Continued) SECTION FOUR (Continued) INFORMATION ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) INFORMATION ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) VI. Consolidated liquidity risk management and coverage ratio (continued) VI. Consolidated liquidity risk management and coverage ratio (continued) 2. Consolidated Liquidity Coverage Ratio 2. Consolidated Liquidity Coverage Ratio (continued): According to regulations which is published on 28948 numbered gazette on 21 March 2014 related to calculation of liquidity Rate of “Percentage to be Rate of “Percentage to coverage ratio of banks, calculated liquidity coverage ratios are shown below. Including the reporting period for the last three taken into account” not be taken into account” months consolidated foreign currency and total liquidity coverage ratio and consolidated foreign currency and total liquidity Implemented Total value Implemented Total value coverage ratio’s minimum and maximum levels are shown below by specified thereby weekly. Prior Period TL+FC FC TL+FC FC HIGH QUALITY LIQUID ASSETS (HQLA) Rate of “Percentage to be Rate of “Percentage taken into account” not to be taken into account” 1 High quality liquid assets 3.725.887 1.235.099 Implemented Total value Implemented Total value CASH OUTFLOWS Current Period TL+FC FC TL+FC FC 2 Retail and Customers Deposits 37 8 4 1 HIGH QUALITY LIQUID ASSETS (HQLA) 3 Stable deposits 1 High quality liquid assets 3.898.392 1.730.885 4 Less stable deposits 37 8 4 1 CASH OUTFLOWS 5 Unsecured Funding other than Retail and Small Business 2 Retail and Customers Deposits 32 5 3 1 Customers Deposits 1.519.701 758.594 1.318.314 564.669 3 Stable deposits 6 Operational deposits 49.366 39.616 12.341 9.904 4 Less stable deposits 32 5 3 1 7 Non-Operational Deposits 5 Unsecured Funding other than Retail and Small Business 8 Other Unsecured Funding 1.470.335 718.978 1.305.973 554.765 Customers Deposits 2.849.085 2.182.738 2.451.920 1.795.976 9 Secured funding 6 Operational deposits 97.764 84.500 24.441 21.125 10 Other Cash Outflows 953.824 1.268.703 953.824 1.268.703 7 Non-Operational Deposits 11 Liquidity needs related to derivatives and market 8 Other Unsecured Funding 2.751.321 2.098.238 2.427.479 1.774.851 valuation changes on derivatives transactions 790.111 1.104.990 790.111 1.104.990 9 Secured funding 12 Debts related to the structured financial products 10 Other Cash Outflows 938.988 1.482.988 938.988 1.482.988 13 Commitment related to debts to financial markets and other off balance sheet liabilities 163.713 163.713 163.713 163.713 11 Liquidity needs related to derivatives and market valuation changes on derivatives transactions 761.155 1.305.155 761.155 1.305.155 14 Commitments that are unconditionally revocable at any time by the Bank and other contractual commitments 16.329.005 13.187.181 816.450 659.359 12 Debts related to the structured financial products 15 Other irrevocable or conditionally revocable commitments 7.625.905 5.868.830 1.152.249 667.446 13 Commitment related to debts to financial markets and other off balance sheet liabilities 177.833 177.833 177.833 177.833 16 TOTAL CASH OUTFLOWS 4.240.841 3.160.178 14 Commitments that are unconditionally revocable at any CASH INFLOWS time by the Bank and other contractual commitments 20.396.531 16.430.772 1.019.827 821.539 17 Secured Lending Transactions 491 15 Other irrevocable or conditionally revocable commitments 8.485.985 6.800.318 1.194.592 751.330 18 Unsecured Lending Transactions 3.441.545 1.736.736 2.742.901 1.268.912 16 TOTAL CASH OUTFLOWS 5.605.330 4.851.834 19 Other contractual cash inflows 78.475 1.560.514 78.475 1.560.514 CASH INFLOWS 20 TOTAL CASH INFLOWS 3.520.511 3.297.250 2.821.376 2.829.426 17 Secured Lending Transactions 122.181 Upper Limit Applied 18 Unsecured Lending Transactions 3.195.805 1.977.707 2.419.361 1.449.493 Amounts 19 Other contractual cash inflows 88.241 1.339.028 88.241 1.339.028 21 TOTAL HQLA STOCK 3.725.887 1.235.099 20 TOTAL CASH INFLOWS 3.406.227 3.316.735 2.507.602 2.788.521 22 TOTAL NET CASH OUTFLOWS 1.419.465 790.045 Upper Limit Applied 23 Liquidity Coverage Ratio (%) 262 156 Amounts 21 TOTAL HQLA STOCK 3.898.392 1.730.885 22 TOTAL NET CASH OUTFLOWS 3.097.728 2.063.313 23 Liquidity Coverage Ratio (%) 126 84 386 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 387 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION FOUR (Continued) SECTION FOUR (Continued) INFORMATION ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) INFORMATION ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) VI. Consolidated liquidity risk management and coverage ratio (continued) VI. Consolidated liquidity risk management and coverage ratio (continued) 3. Minimum explanations related to the liquidity coverage ratio by Banks: Presentation of assets and liabilities according to their remaining maturities As per The Regulation on The Calculation of Liquidity Coverage Ratio, Liquidity Coverage Ratio is the ratio of high quality Up to 1 1-3 3-12 1-5 5 Years and Demand Month Months Months Years Over Undistributed (1) Total liquid assets to net cash outflows.For total and foreign currency limits 100% and minimum 80% are assigned on consolidated Current Period and unconsolidated basis respectively. For the development and investment banks, Banking Regulations and Supervision Assets Agency decided to apply zero percent to the total and foreign currency consolidated and unconsolidated liquidity coverage Cash (Cash in Vault, Foreign Currency Cash, ratios unless stated otherwise. Money in Transit, Checks Purchased) and Balances with the Central Bank of Turkey(2) 30 803.582 803.612 In the Liquidity Coverage Ratio calculation, the items with the highest impact are high quality liquid assets, foreign funds and Banks(2) 45.218 105.873 106.217 257.308 money market transactions. High quality liquid assets mainly consist of the required reserves held in the Central Bank of the Financial Assets at Fair Value Through Profit Republic of Turkey and unencumbered securities issued by the Treasury. and Loss (3) 7.135 326.556 477.909 425.539 30.083 1.267.222 Money Market Placements(2) 252.767 273.232 252 526.251 Main funding source of the Parent Bank is long term loans attained from international financial institutions. The ratio of Financial Assets at Fair Value Through those loans in total funding is around 67%. The total ratio of the securities issued in purpose of funding diversification and Other Comprehensive Income (2) 70.377 363.104 574.908 2.314.896 746.419 116.569 4.186.273 loans attained through syndication loans in overall borrowing is 26%. 7% of the Parent Bank’s total funding is provided from Loans(2) 2.899.600 1.888.609 4.985.933 14.274.928 5.951.066 736.176 30.736.312 repurchase agreements. Financial Assets Measured at Amortized Cost (2) 2.218.427 363.372 2.581.799 30-day cash flows arising from derivative transactions are included in the calculation in accordance with the Regulation. The Other Assets(2) 5.975 80.941 127.752 1.679.566 1.894.234 Bank also takes into consideration the liabilities depending on the possibility of changing the fair values of ​​ the derivative Total Assets 52.383 4.458.755 3.115.046 6.067.573 18.966.086 7.060.857 2.532.311 42.253.011 transactions in accordance with the Regulation. Liabilities Bank Deposits Other Deposits Funds Provided from Other Financial Institutions 931.629 520.378 3.904.466 11.173.544 10.098.308 26.628.325 Money Market Borrowings (342) 1.197.709 1.197.367 Marketable Securities Issued (4) 99.070 169.882 2.105.085 5.733.376 8.107.413 Miscellaneous Payables 128.262 128.262 Other Liabilities 130.310 222.183 127.051 47.605 5.664.495 6.191.644 Total Liabilities (342) 2.358.718 912.443 6.136.602 16.954.525 10.098.308 5.792.757 42.253.011 Liquidity Gap 52.725 2.100.037 2.202.603 (69.029) 2.011.561 (3.037.451) (3.260.446) Net Off-balance sheet Position (2.079) (179.812) 311.081 306.043 (1.212) 434.021 Financial Derivative Assets 3.421.629 2.036.215 6.244.197 12.887.416 3.742.034 28.331.491 Financial Derivative Liabilities 3.423.708 2.216.027 5.933.116 12.581.373 3.743.246 27.897.470 Non-cash Loans 1.805.069 1.240.149 1.085.958 416.540 4.547.716 Prior Period Total Assets 390.278 3.118.321 1.721.716 5.886.584 18.471.119 6.860.172 1.821.250 38.269.440 Total Liabilities 759.779 431.426 5.089.321 17.704.897 9.560.543 4.723.474 38.269.440 Liquidity Gap 390.278 2.358.542 1.290.290 797.263 766.222 (2.700.371) (2.902.224) Net Off-balance sheet Position (47.884) (7.756) 23.591 286.659 15.232 269.842 Financial Derivative Assets 3.662.503 2.206.118 4.378.824 12.035.187 7.121.613 29.404.245 Financial Derivative Liabilities 3.710.387 2.213.874 4.355.233 11.748.528 7.106.381 29.134.403 Non-cash Loans 117.206 149.450 1.331.212 249.706 840.965 485.268 3.173.807 (1) Amounts in investments in associates and subsidiaries, deferred tax asset, tangible and intangible assets, other assets, other miscellenous liabilities, shareholders’ equity, provisions and tax liability are presented in non-interest bearing column, in order to reconcile the total assets and liabilities on the balance sheet. (2) Expected credit losses for stage 1 and stage 2 are netted off on the related maturity. (3) Derivative financial assets and Loans measured at fair value through profit or loss. (4) Includes Tier 2 subordinated bonds which are classified on the balance sheet as subordinated loans. 388 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 389 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION FOUR (Continued) SECTION FOUR (Continued) INFORMATION ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) INFORMATION ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) VI. Consolidated liquidity risk management and coverage ratio (continued) VII. Explanations related to consolidated leverage ratio Analysis of financial liabilities by remaining contractual maturities a) Information about the consolidated leverage ratio between current and prior periods In compliance with the Turkish Financial Reporting Standard No.7, the following table indicates the maturities of the Group’s The table related to calculation of leverage ratio in accordance with the principles of the “Regulation on Measurement and major financial liabilities which are not qualified as derivatives. The following tables have been prepared by referencing the Evaluation of Banks’ Leverage Level” which is published on the Official Gazette no.28812 dated 5 November 2013 is given earliest dates of capital outflows without discounting the financial liabilities. below. Up to 1 1-3 3-12 1-5 Over As of 31 December 2019, leverage ratio of the Group calculated from the arithmetic average of the three months is 10,56% Current Period Month Months Months Years 5 Years Adjustments Total (31 December 2018: 8,57%). Leverage ratio is almost on the same level in the current and prior period. Total balance sheet Liabilities assets increased by 2,26% compare to prior period. Funds Provided from Other Financial Institutions 941.370 557.184 4.268.233 12.517.865 11.451.760 (3.108.087) 26.628.325 b) Comparison table of total assets and total risk amounts in the financial statements prepared in accordance with Money Market Borrowings 1.198.658 (1.291) 1.197.367 TAS Marketable Securities Issued 56.942 175.394 2.353.430 6.326.035 (804.388) 8.107.413 Current Period Prior Period Funds 58.950 58.950 1 Total Amount of Asset and Risk Situated in The Consolidated Financial Statements Leasing Liabilities 17 33 1.559 3.639 17 (334) 4.913 Prepared in Accordance with TAS (2) 42.449.529 38.615.495 Total 2.255.937 732.611 6.623.222 18.847.539 11.451.777 (3.914.100) 35.996.968 2 The difference between Total Amount of Asset in the Consolidated Financial Up to 1 1-3 3-12 1-5 Over Statements Prepared in Accordance with TAS and the Communiqué on Prior Period Month Months Months Years 5 Years Adjustments Total Preparation of Consolidated Financial Statements of Banks (2) 196.518 346.055 Liabilities 3 The difference between total amount and total risk amount of derivative financial Funds Provided from Other instruments with credit derivative in the Communiqué on Preparation of Financial Institutions 250.750 473.529 3.564.137 11.932.773 10.745.190 (3.146.709) 23.819.670 Consolidated Financial Statements of Banks (1) (408.001) (535.603) Money Market Borrowings 402.220 97 (39) 402.278 4 The difference between total amount and total risk amount of risk investment Marketable Securities Issued 49.424 58.732 2.169.217 7.473.832 (1.252.242) 8.498.963 securities or commodity collateral financing transactions in the Communiqué on Funds 32.529 32.529 Preparation of Consolidated Financial Statements of Banks (1) 1.238.940 1.421.363 Total 734.923 532.358 5.733.354 19.406.605 10.745.190 (4.398.990) 32.753.440 5 The difference between total amount and total risk amount of off-balance sheet transactions in the Communiqué on Preparation of Consolidated Financial Analysis of contractual expiry by maturity of the Group’s derivative financial instruments: Statements of Banks (1) (2.804.361) (2.294.016) 6 The other differences between amount of assets and risk in the Communiqué on Up to 1 1-3 3-12 1-5 Over Preparation of Consolidated Financial Statements of Banks (1) Current Period Month Months Months Years 5 Years Total 7 Total Exposures (1) 47.826.907 46.770.242 Swap Contracts 5.305.067 3.207.161 8.293.852 24.774.091 7.485.280 49.065.451 (1) The arithmetic average of the last 3 months in the related periods. Forward Contracts 727.240 552.169 3.455.183 653.118 5.387.710 Futures Transactions (2) The consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with the sixth paragraph of the Article 5 in the Communique on Preparation of Consolidated Financial Statements of the Banks. 30 June 2019 figures used in this table for the current Options 813.030 492.912 428.278 41.580 1.775.800 period due to consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with TAS are not prepared as of the date of this Other report and 31 December 2018 figures used in this table for the prior period. Total 6.845.337 4.252.242 12.177.313 25.468.789 7.485.280 56.228.961 Up to 1 1-3 3-12 1-5 Over Prior Period Month Months Months Years 5 Years Total Swap Contracts 5.553.084 3.255.128 6.765.757 26.785.018 7.096.803 49.455.790 Forward Contracts 1.313.247 727.695 785.000 975.007 3.800.949 Futures Transactions Options 726.110 1.028.724 3.476.077 37.597 5.268.508 Other 13.401 13.401 Total 17.382.828 14.495.747 24.204.833 2.455.240 14.227.994 58.538.648 390 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 391 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION FOUR (Continued) SECTION FOUR (Continued) INFORMATION ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) INFORMATION ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) VII. Explanations related to consolidated leverage ratio (continued) VIII. Explanations related to presentation of financial assets and liabilities at fair value c) Consolidated Leverage Ratio The table below shows the carrying and fair values of the financial assets and liabilities in the consolidated financial Current Period (1) Prior Period (1) statements of the Group. Balance sheet Assets Carrying Value Fair Value 1 Balance sheet assets (excluding derivative financial assets and credit derivatives, Current Period Current Period including collaterals) 40.114.358 39.226.657 Financial Assets 38.108.870 37.948.343 2 (Assets deducted from Core capital) (92.635) (40.829) Money Market Placements 526.286 526.251 3 Total risk amount of balance sheet assets (sum of lines 1 and 2) 40.021.723 39.185.828 Banks 257.692 256.879 Derivative financial assets and credit derivatives Available-For-Sale Financial Assets 4.199.510 4.199.510 4 Cost of replenishment for derivative financial assets and credit derivatives 980.946 1.071.953 Held-To-Maturity Investments 2.585.160 2.552.348 5 Potential credit risk amount of derivative financial assets and credit derivatives 389.386 442.871 Loans (1) 30.540.222 30.413.355 6 Total risk amount of derivative financial assets and credit derivatives (sum of lines Financial Liabilities 36.120.317 35.651.040 4 and 5) 1.370.332 1.514.824 Bank Deposits Financing transactions secured by marketable security or commodity Other Deposits 7 Risk amount of financing transactions secured by marketable security or Funds Provided From Other Financial Institutions (3) 27.884.642 27.884.642 commodity 572.591 474.260 Marketable Securities Issued (2) 8.107.413 7.638.136 8 Risk amount arising from intermediary transactions 129.806 114.299 Miscellaneous Payables 128.262 128.262 9 Total risk amount of financing transactions secured by marketable security or commodity (sum of lines 7 and 8) 702.397 588.559 (1) Loans include financial lease receivables. (2) Includes Tier 2 subordinated bonds which are classified on the balance sheet as subordinated loans. Off-balance sheet transactions (3) Funds provided from other financial institutions include funds borrowed,borrower funds and money market borrowings. 10 Gross notional amount of off-balance sheet transactions 8.536.816 7.775.047 11 (Correction amount due to multiplication with credit conversion rates) (2.804.361) (2.294.016) Carrying Value Fair Value 12 Total risk of off-balance sheet transactions (sum of lines 10 and 11) 5.732.455 5.481.031 Prior Period Prior Period Capital and total risk Financial Assets 34.718.796 34.631.596 13 Core Capital 5.053.660 4.009.392 Money Market Placements 573.613 573.613 14 Total risk amount (sum of lines 3, 6, 9 and 12) 47.826.907 46.770.242 Banks 807.231 807.231 Leverage ratio Available-For-Sale Financial Assets 3.420.313 3.420.313 15 Leverage ratio 10,57% 8,57% Held-To-Maturity Investments 2.154.941 2.033.904 (1) The arithmetic average of the last three months in the related periods in accordance with BRSA Regulation. Loans (1) 27.762.698 27.796.535 Financial Liabilities 32.819.008 31.991.473 Bank Deposits Other Deposits Funds Provided From Other Financial Institutions (3) 24.254.477 24.254.477 Marketable Securities Issued (2) 8.498.963 7.671.428 Miscellaneous Payables 65.568 65.568 (1) Loans include financial lease receivables. (2) Includes Tier 2 subordinated bonds which are classified on the balance sheet as subordinated loans. (3) Funds provided from other financial institutions include funds borrowed,borrower funds and money market borrowings. The methodologies and assumptions used to determine fair values for those financial instruments which are not already recorded at fair value in the financial statements: iFor the fair value calculation of loans, the prevailing interest rates as of the reporting date were used. iiFor the fair value calculation of the balances with banks, the prevailing interest rates as of the reporting date were used. iiiFor the fair value calculation of held-to-maturity investments, quoted prices as of the reporting date were used. 392 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 393 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION FOUR (Continued) SECTION FOUR (Continued) INFORMATION ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) INFORMATION ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) VIII. Explanations related to presentation of financial assets and liabilities at fair value (continued) VIII. Explanations related to presentation of financial assets and liabilities at fair value (continued) ivFor the fair value calculation of marketable securities, market prices as of the reporting date were used. Real estates which are presented in the financial statements at fair value are classified at level 2; investment properties of companies included in consolidation are classified at level 2 and level 3. The following table shows an analysis of financial instruments recorded at fair value, between those whose fair value is recorded on quoted market prices, those involving valuation techniques where all model inputs are observable in the market IX. Explanations related to transactions made on behalf of others and fiduciary transactions and, those where the valuation techniques involves the use of non observable inputs. The Parent Bank performs trading transactions on behalf of its customers, and gives custody, administration and consultancy The table below analyses financial instruments carried at fair value, by valuation method. services. The Parent Bank does not deal with fiduciary transactions. a) Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (Level 1); X. Explanations related to consolidated risk management b) Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (as prices) or indirectly (derived from prices) (Level 2); Linkages between financial statements and risk amounts c) Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (Level 3). The footnotes prepared in accordance with the “Regulation on Calculation Risk Management Disclosures”, which was Current Period Level I Level II Level III published in the Official Gazette No. 29511 of 23 October 2015 and entered into force as of 31 March 2016, and the Financial Assets disclosures pertaining thereto are provided in this section. Financial Assets at Fair Value Through Profit or Loss 1 As the standard approach is utilized for the calculation of the capital adequacy of the Bank, no statement has been included Financial Assets at Fair Value Through Other Comprehensive Income 3.947.295 84.814 149.268 as regards the methods based on internal models as per the relevant communiqué. Loans at Fair Value Through Profit or Loss 263.097 Derivative Financial Assets Held-for-trading (1) 894.448 Disclosures on the Risk management approach and risk-weighted amount Derivative Financial Assets for Hedging Purposes (1) 67.884 Risk management approach of the Parent Bank allows for ensuring the establishment of a common risk culture covering the Financial Liabilities entire institution within the scope of the policies and codes of practice designated by the Board of Directors, for identifying Derivative Financial Liabilities Held-for-trading (2) 467.798 risks in harmony with international arrangements and for performing the activities of measurement, analysis, monitoring and Derivative Financial Liabilites for Hedging Purposes (2) 16.545 reporting accordingly. (1) Positive differences from Derivative Financial Assets Held-for-trading and Derivative Financial Assets for Hedging Purposes are classified in “1.4.1 Derivative Financial Assets at Fair Value Through Profit or Loss”line in the balance sheet. Risk management process is structured within the scope of related policies and practice principals that creates a risk culture (2) Negative differences from Derivative Financial Liabilities Held-for-trading and Derivative Financial Liabilites for Hedging Purposes are classified in “7.1 Derivative throughout the company and has a framework which is coherent with international regulations in the manner of evaluation, Financial Liabilities at Fair Value Through Profit or Loss”line in the balance sheet. analyzing, monitoring, and reporting operations. Risk Management Department has been organized within the Bank so as to ensure compliance with the relevant policies, codes of practice and processes and to manage, in parallel with these policies, Current Period Level I Level II Level III the risks the Bank is exposed to. Risk Management Department, the duties and responsibilities of which are designated Financial Assets through the regulations approved by the Board of Directors, carries out its activities through the Executive Vice President for Financial Assets at Fair Value Through Profit or Loss 4.887 4.972 Internal Systems under the Audit Committee who serves independently from executive activities and executive units. Financial Assets at Fair Value Through Other Comprehensive Income 3.260.050 72.786 82.581 Risk Management Department develops the systems required within the process of risk management and carries out the Loans at Fair Value Through Profit or Loss 290.660 relevant activities, monitors the compliance of risks with policies, standards, limits of the Bank and its risk appetite indicators Derivative Financial Assets Held-for-trading (1) 979.221 and performs activities aimed at harmonization with the relevant legislation and the Basel criteria. Risk measurements are Derivative Financial Assets for Hedging Purposes (1) performed through the standard approaches for legal reporting and the advanced approaches are utilized internally. Financial Liabilities Derivative Financial Liabilities Held-for-trading (2) 620.082 Risk Management Department submits its detailed risk management reports prepared on monthly and quarterly basis to the Board of Directors via the Audit Committee. These reports cover measurements regarding main risks, stress tests and scenario Derivative Financial Liabilites for Hedging Purposes (2) 172.258 analyses and the status of compliance with the identified limit levels and risk appetite indicators. (1) Positive differences from Derivative Financial Assets Held-for-trading and Derivative Financial Assets for Hedging Purposes are classified in “1.4.1 Derivative Financial Assets at Fair Value Through Profit or Loss”line in the balance sheet. (2) Negative differences from Derivative Financial Liabilities Held-for-trading and Derivative Financial Liabilites for Hedging Purposes are classified in “7.1 Derivative Financial Liabilities at Fair Value Through Profit or Loss”line in the balance sheet 394 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 395 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION FOUR (Continued) SECTION FOUR (Continued) INFORMATION ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) INFORMATION ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) X. Explanations related to consolidated risk management (continued) X. Explanations related to consolidated risk management (continued) Disclosures on the Risk management approach and risk-weighted amount (continued) Linkages between financial statements and risk amounts Prospective risk assessments are carried out by conducting periodical stress tests on loan, market and interest risks and Differences and linkage between scopes of accounting consolidation and regulated consolidation the impact of results on the overall financial power of the Bank is evaluated. The relevant results are notified to the Audit Carrying values of items in accordance with Committee and contribute to the assessment of the financial structure of the Bank at the moment of stress. Stress test Turkish Accounting Standards scenarios are determined by evaluating the impacts posed by previous economic crises on macroeconomic indicators Carrying and expectations from the upcoming period. By estimating the risks and capital position of the Bank within the upcoming Carrying values in Not subject period, various analyses are performed in terms of legal and internal capital adequacy ratios, and the ICAAP (Internal Capital values in consolidated to capital Adequacy Assessment Process) report is submitted to the BRSA. financial financial requirements statements statements Subject to or subject to Overview of risk weighted assets Current Period prepared as prepared as Subject to counterparty Securitization Subject to deduction Assets per TAS (1) per TAS credit risk credit risk Positions market risk from capital Minimum Capital Cash and balances at Risk Weighted Amount Requirement Central Bank 927.005 803.612 804.041 Current Period Prior Period Current Period Banks 1.030.326 257.308 257.692 1 Credit risk (excluding counterparty credit risk) 37.712.816 33.258.400 3.017.025 Money Market Placements 1.127.319 526.251 525.628 658 658 2 Standardised approach 37.712.816 33.258.400 3.017.025 Financial Assets at Fair 3 Internal rating-based approach Value Through Profit or Loss 327.270 278.918 263.097 15.821 4 Counterparty credit risk 1.410.715 1.498.190 112.857 Financial Assets at Fair 5 Standardised approach for counterparty credit risk 1.410.715 1.498.190 112.857 Value Through Other 6 Internal model method Comprehensive Income 3.689.318 4.186.273 4.186.273 2.073.648 7 Basic risk weight approach to internal models equity Financial Assets Measured position in the banking account at Amortized Cost 2.254.801 2.581.799 2.585.160 431.344 8 Investments made in collective investment companies Derivative Financial Assets 1.118.120 962.331 962.331 294.215 look-through approach Loans 29.594.910 30.655.975 31.516.616 9 Investments made in collective investment companies Leasing Receivables 123.244 106.310 128.874 mandate-based approach Factoring Receivables 10 Investments made in collective investment companies Assets Held for Sale and 1250% weighted risk approach Discontinued Operations 64.403 64.403 11 Settlement risk Associates (net) 450.153 465.976 465.976 12 Securitization positions in banking accounts Subsidiaries (net) 5.109 5.109 Joint-Ventures (net) 2.250 2.250 13 IRB ratings-based approach Tangible Assets (net) 300.490 347.206 345.004 2.202 14 IRB supervisory formula approach Intangible Assets (net) 3.956 5.074 5.074 15 Simplified supervisory formula approach Investment Properties (net) 247.999 273.918 273.918 16 Market risk 459.363 501.850 36.749 Tax Assets 454 255 255 17 Standardised approach 459.363 501.850 36.749 Deffered Tax Assets 31.259 39.930 39.930 18 Internal model approaches Other Assets 702.163 690.113 648.976 42.567 19 Operational risk 2.029.776 1.521.866 162.382 Total Assets 41.928.787 42.253.011 42.113.202 3.510.548 310.694 7.276 20 Basic indicator approach 2.029.776 1.521.866 162.382 (1) The consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with the sixth paragraph of the Article 5 in the Communique on Preparation of Consolidated Financial 21 Standard approach Statements of the Banks as at 30 June 2018 are used. 22 Advanced measurement approach (2) The amount of the financial instruments included in the trading accounts in accordance with TAS within the scope of the “Regulation on Measurement and Assessment of Capital Adequacy of Banks”, has been included. 23 The amount of the discount threshold under the equity (subject to a 250% risk weight) 1.229.443 1.034.147 98.355 24 Floor adjustment 25 Total (1+4+7+8+9+10+11+12+16+19+23+24) 42.842.113 37.814.453 3.427.368 396 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 397 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION FOUR (Continued) SECTION FOUR (Continued) INFORMATION ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) INFORMATION ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) X. Explanations related to consolidated risk management (continued) X. Explanations related to consolidated risk management (continued) Linkages between financial statements and risk amounts (continued) Linkages between financial statements and risk amounts (continued) Differences and linkage between scopes of accounting consolidation and regulated consolidation (continued) Differences and linkage between scopes of accounting consolidation and regulated consolidation (continued) Carrying values of items in accordance with Turkish Accounting Standards Carrying values of items in accordance with Carrying values Not subject Carrying Turkish Accounting Standards Carrying values in consolidated to capital Carrying values in Not subject in financial financial requirements values in consolidated to capital statements statements Subject to or subject to financial financial requirements Current Period prepared as per prepared as per Subject to counterparty Securitization Subject to deduction from statements statements Subject to Subject or subject to Liabilities TAS (1) TAS credit risk credit risk Positions market risk capital Prior Period prepared as prepared as Subject to counterparty Securitization to market deduction Deposits Assets per TAS (1) per TAS credit risk credit risk Positions risk (2) from capital Funds Borrowed 25.907.225 26.628.325 913.928 Cash and Balances at Central Money Market Bank 1.011.829 742.985 743.228 Funds 391.731 1.197.367 1.031.214 Financial Assets Held for Securities Issued 7.999.671 6.277.368 Trading 499.031 806.997 807.231 Funds 41.608 58.950 Financial Assets at Fair Value through Profit and Loss 231 573.590 573.613 361 Financial Liabilities at Fair Value Bank 12.193 9.859 Through Profit or Money Market Placements 3.303.566 3.420.070 3.420.313 1.003.456 Loss Financial Assets AvailableDerivative Financial for-Sale (net) 1.634.807 2.153.313 2.154.941 248.394 Liabilities 602.204 484.834 231.689 Loans and Receivables 816.058 979.221 979.221 447.224 Factoring Payables Factoring Receivables 26.803.779 27.711.224 28.225.979 Lease Payables 4.913 Investment Held-to-Maturity Provisions 142.916 264.166 (net) 117.742 132.518 133.929 Current Tax Liability 88.618 83.358 Investment in Associates Deffered tax Liability (net) Liabilities for Assets Investment in Subsidiaries Held for Sale and (net) 1 1 Discontinued Joint-Ventures (net) 375.039 429.546 429.546 31.177 Operations (net) Finance Lease Receivables 4.609 4.609 Subortinated Debts 1.785.961 1.830.045 Derivative Financial Assets Other Liabilities 289.956 244.696 Held for Risk Management 1.760 1.760 Shareholders’ Equity 4.678.897 5.178.989 Tangible Assets (net) 244.421 292.651 289.026 3.985 Total Liabilities 41.928.787 42.253.011 1.945.142 231.689 Intangible Assets (net) 2.594 4.872 4.872 Investment Properties 243.151 247.793 247.793 (1) The consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with the sixth paragraph of the Article 5 in the Communique on Preparation of Consolidated Financial Statements of the Banks as at 30 June 2018 are used. Tax Assets 4.562 3.575 3.575 (2) The amount of the financial instruments included in the trading accounts in accordance with TAS within the scope of the “Regulation on Measurement and Assessment Assets Held for Sale and of Capital Adequacy of Banks”, has been included. Discontinued Operations (net) 50.336 3.844 3.844 Other Assets 620.533 751.012 686.422 65.909 Total Assets 35.739.872 38.269.440 37.725.810 2.231.432 447.224 105.943 (1) The consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with the sixth paragraph of the Article 5 in the Communique on Preparation of Consolidated Financial Statements of the Banks as at 30 June 2017 are used. (2) The amount of the financial instruments included in the trading accounts in accordance with TAS within the scope of the “Regulation on Measurement and Assessment of Capital Adequacy of Banks”, has been included. 398 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 399 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION FOUR (Continued) SECTION FOUR (Continued) INFORMATION ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) INFORMATION ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) X. Explanations related to consolidated risk management (continued) X. Explanations related to consolidated risk management (continued) Linkages between financial statements and risk amounts (continued) Linkages between financial statements and risk amounts (continued) Differences and linkage between scopes of accounting consolidation and regulated consolidation (continued) The main sources of the differences between the risk amounts and the amounts assessed in accordance with TAS in the financial statements Carrying values of items in accordance with Carrying Turkish Accounting Standards Securitization Counterparty Market risk Carrying values in Not subject Current Period Total Credit Risk (1) Positions credit risk (1) (2) values in consolidated to capital 1 Asset carrying value amount under financial financial Subject requirements scope of regulatory consolidation 42.253.011 42.113.202 3.467.981 310.694 statements statements to Subject to or subject to Prior Period prepared as prepared as credit counterparty Securitization Subject to deduction 2 Liabilities carrying value amount under Liabilities per TAS (1) per TAS risk credit risk Positions market risk (2) from capital regulatory scope of consolidation 42.253.011 1.945.142 231.689 Deposits Total net amount 42.113.202 1.522.839 79.005 Derivative Financial Liabilities 3 Off-balance sheet amounts 65.271.742 3.957.333 393.837 Held for Trading 22.679.295 23.819.670 757.816 23.061.854 4 Differences due to prudential filters (451.674) 204.743 380.358 Funds Borrowed 607.064 402.278 179.001 223.277 Risk Amounts 45.618.861 2.121.419 459.363 Money Market Funds 6.131.722 6.949.189 6.949.189 (1) The risk amount before the Credit Risk Mitigation are given in credit risk and the counterparty credit risk. Securities Issued 21.302 32.529 32.529 (2) The valuation amounts of financial instruments included in trading accounts in accordance with TAS are included Funds Miscellaneous Payables 790.080 792.340 359.639 432.701 Securitization Counterparty Market risk Other Liabilities Prior Period Total Credit Risk (1) Positions credit risk (1) (2) Factoring Payables 1 Asset carrying value amount under Lease Payables 39.228 261.276 261.276 scope of regulatory consolidation 38.269.440 37.725.810 2.231.432 447.224 Derivative Financial Liabilities 2 Liabilities carrying value amount under Held for Risk Management 27.190 94.104 94.104 regulatory scope of consolidation 38.269.440 936.817 359.639 Provisions Total net amount 37.725.810 1.294.615 87.585 Tax Liability 3 Off-balance sheet amounts 65.537.851 2.904.440 423.960 Liabilities for Assets Held 4 Differences due to prudential filters (342.877) 120.598 414.265 for Sale and Discontinued Risk Amounts 40.287.373 1.839.173 501.850 Operations (net) 1.364.250 1.549.774 1.549.774 Subordinated Debts 222.799 184.204 184.204 (1) The risk amount before the Credit Risk Mitigation are given in credit risk and the counterparty credit risk. Shareholders’ Equity 3.856.942 4.184.076 4.184.076 (2) Gross position amounts included in the calculation of market risk are taken as basis. Total Liabilities 35.739.872 38.269.440 936.817 359.639 36.972.984 (1) The consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with the sixth paragraph of the Article 5 in the Communique on Preparation of Consolidated Financial Statements of the Banks as at 30 June 2017 are used. (2) The amount of the financial instruments included in the trading accounts in accordance with TAS within the scope of the “Regulation on Measurement and Assessment of Capital Adequacy of Banks”, has been included. 400 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 401 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION FOUR (Continued) SECTION FOUR (Continued) INFORMATION ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) INFORMATION ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) X. Explanations related to consolidated risk management (continued) X. Explanations related to consolidated risk management (continued) Linkages between financial statements and risk amounts (continued) Explanations on credit risk (continued) The differences between the risk amounts and the amounts assessed in accordance with TAS in the financial General qualitative information on credit risk (continued) statements (continued) Credit quality of assets There is no major differences between the financial and regulatory scope of consolidation. Gross Carrying Value in Financial Statements Allowances/ Difference between the amounts of assets within the scope of legal consolidation as valued in accordance with TAS and Prepared in Accordance with Turkish amortization Net Values credit risk exposures results from the transactions which are not subject to credit risk. Difference between off-balance sheet Accounting Standards (TAS) and impairments (a+b+c) exposures and credit risk exposures results from the application of credit conversion factors to off-balance sheet exposures in Current Period Defaulted (a) Non-defaulted (b) (c) (d) line with the Regulation on the Measurement and Assessment of the Capital Adequacy of Banks. 1 Loans 1.107.772 35.262.027 911.456 35.458.343 2 Debt Securities 6.701.268 46.404 6.654.864 The Parent Bank takes into consideration the principles stipulated in Annex 3 of the Regulation on the Measurement and Assessment of the Capital Adequacy of Banks for all positions concerning its trading and banking book to be considered 3 Off-balance sheet exposures 2.964 9.064.438 24.621 9.042.781 in the measurement of its fair value and capital adequacy. The Bank generally uses fair value as valuation methodology. 4 Total 1.110.736 51.027.733 982.481 51.155.988 Valuation methods are covered in detail under the title “VIII. Disclosures on financial assets” in section “Accounting Policies” of section three of the report. Gross Carrying Value in Financial Statements Allowances/ Prepared in Accordance with Turkish amortization Net Values Explanations on credit risk Accounting Standards (TAS) and impairments (a+b+c) Prior Period Defaulted (a) Non-defaulted (b) (c) (d) General qualitative information on credit risk 1 Loans 597.210 32.124.533 507.264 32.214.479 Credit risk is the possibility of incurring losses due to the credit fulfill customer or the counterparty, with whom the Bank 2 Debt Securities 5.660.275 179.050 5.481.225 has made an agreement with, does not fulfill its obligations appropriately or is not able to meet these obligations. While the 3 Off-balance sheet exposures 2.964 7.008.225 11.986 6.999.203 largest and most visible source of credit risk consists of the loans extended by the bank, other assets included in balance 4 Total 600.174 44.793.033 698.300 44.694.907 sheets, non-cash loans and commitments are also taken into consideration within the scope of credit risk. Changes in stock of default loans and debt securities Credit risk is measured and managed in accordance with the Credit Risk Policies developed within the scope of the Risk Management Policies of the Bank. In this sense, the structure and characteristics of a loan, the provisions of loan Current Period Balance agreements and financial conditions, structure of the risk profile until the end of maturity in parallel with potential market 1 Defaulted loans and debt securities at end of the previous reporting 600.174 trends, guarantees and collaterals, internal risk ratings and potential changes with regard to the ratings in the process of 2 Loans and debt securities that have defaulted since the last reporting period 516.375 risk exposure and concentrations (a single company, a group of affiliated companies, sector, country etc.) are taken into 3 Receivables back to non-defaulted status consideration. Compliance with the limits and risk appetite levels determined by the Board of Directors is monitored. Credit 4 Amounts written off risk is managed by loan allocation and loan monitoring units in the Bank. Creditworthiness of loan customers is monitored and reviewed on a regular basis. Credit limits are set by the Board of Directors, the credit committee of the bank and the 5 Other changes (5.813) loan management. The Bank receives a sufficient amount of collateral in return for the loans extended thereby and its other 6 Defaulted loans and debt securities at end of the reporting period (1+2-3-4±5) 1.110.736 receivables. Prior Period Balance Credit risk is measured, monitored and reported by the Risk Management Department. Concentrations in the loan portfolio, 1 Defaulted loans and debt securities at end of the previous reporting 54.741 loan quality of the portfolio, collateral structure, measurements concerning capital adequacy, stress tests and scenario 2 Loans and debt securities that have defaulted since the last reporting period 640.289 analyses and the level of compliance with limits are regularly reported to the Board of Directors and the senior management. 3 Receivables back to non-defaulted status 4 Amounts written off 147.271 5 Other changes 52.415 6 Defaulted loans and debt securities at end of the reporting period (1+2-3-4±5) 600.174 402 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 403 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION FOUR (Continued) SECTION FOUR (Continued) INFORMATION ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) INFORMATION ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) X. Explanations related to risk management (continued) X. Explanations related to risk management (continued) Explanations on credit risk (continued) Credit Risk Mitigation Additional disclosure related to the credit quality of assets Qualitative disclosure on credit risk mitigation techniques The Parent Bank considers stage 2 loans that collections of principal and interest payments have not been realized on due In valuations made within the scope of credit risk mitigation techniques, the methods used in relation to the valuation and dates as past due in accordance with the “Regulation on Identification of and Provision against Non-Performing Loans and management of collateral are carried out in parallel with the Communiqué on Credit Risk Reduction Techniques. Offsetting is Other Receivables”. not used as credit risk reduction technique. Loans that collections of principal and interest payments are over due more than 90 days and losing creditworthiness is Financial colleterals are assessed on a daily basis at the Parent Bank. Depending on the use of the comprehensive financial considered by the Parent Bank as impaired or provisioned loans. guarantee method, the risk-mitigating effects of the collateral are taken into account by means of standard volatility adjustments. Valuations of real estate mortgages used in capital adequacy calculations are regularly reviewed. The value of General loan loss provision is calculated for past due loans; Specific provision is calculated for impaired loans. The methods the real estates is determined by the valuation institutions authorized by the CMB. used in determining the provision amounts are explained in Section Three Note VIII. Major collaterals that can be used by the Bank within the scope of credit risk mitigation techniques are financial collaterals, Refinancing and restructuring; is the replacement of one or several loans extended by the Parent Bank to a new loan that will guarantees and mortgages. In the report dated 31 December 2019, financial collaterals, guarantees and mortgages were cover the principal or interest payment in whole or in part due to the financial distress expected by the customer or the group used as the credit risk reduction technique in the calculation of credit risk exposure. in the present or future, or change the terms in the current loans to ensure that the debt can be paid. Credit risk mitigation techniques Standard approach Breakdown of receivables according to major regions, sectors and remaining maturities Exposures Exposures Breakdown of receivables by major regions, sectors and remaning maturities is included in footnotes under Section Four, Exposures secured by secured Note II, “Explanations Related to Consolidated Credit Risk.” Exposures secured by financial by credit unsecured: collateral, Exposures guarantees Exposures derivatives, Impaired loans on the basis of major regions and sectors and amounts written off corresponding provisions value in Exposures of which: secured by of which: secured of which: accordance secured by secured financial secured by credit secured On the basis of major regions impaired loans of the bank consist of domestic receivables. On sectoral basis, the amount Current Period with TAS. collateral amount guarantees amount derivatives amount of the Bank’s impaired loans and related provisions is presented in footnote II. “ Information of major sectors or type of counterparties” under Section Four explanations consolidated credit risk explanations . The Parent Bank allocates 100% 1 Loans 33.363.272 1.904.349 1.647.757 190.722 146.979 Provision for these receivables. The Bank has no written off receivables as of 31 December 2019 (31 December 2018: TL Debt 147.271). 2 securities 6.654.864 3 Total 40.018.136 1.904.349 1.647.757 190.722 146.979 The aging analysis of the receivables past due Of which 4 default 1.107.772 The aging analysis of the receivables past due is presented in footnote under Section Four II. “Explanations related to consolidated credit risk”. Exposures Exposures Exposures secured by secured Exposures secured by financial by credit unsecured: collateral, Exposures guarantees Exposures derivatives, value in Exposures of which: secured by of which: secured of which: accordance secured by secured financial secured by credit secured Prior Period with TAS. collateral amount guarantees amount derivatives amount 1 Loans 30.440.714 1.535.601 1.296.045 236.730 188.947 Debt 2 securities 5.481.225 3 Total 35.921.939 1.535.601 1.296.045 236.730 188.947 Of which 4 default 597.210 404 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 405 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION FOUR (Continued) SECTION FOUR (Continued) INFORMATION ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) INFORMATION ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) X. Explanations related to consolidated risk management (continued) X. Explanations related to consolidated risk management (continued) Explanations related to credit risk (continued) Explanations related to credit risk (continued) Credit risk under standard approach Credit risk under standard approach (continued) Qualitative disclosures on banks’ use of external credit ratings under the standardised approach for credit risk Credit risk exposure and credit risk mitigation effects (continued) The related disclosures are presented footnote II “Explanations related to consolidated credit risk” in Section Four. Exposures before credit Exposures post credit conversion factor and credit conversion factor and credit Risk weighted amount and Credit risk exposure and credit risk mitigation effects Prior Period risk mitigation risk mitigation risk weighted amount density Risk weighted Exposures before credit Exposures post credit On-Balance Off-balance On-Balance Off-balance Risk weighted amount conversion factor and credit conversion factor and credit Risk weighted amount and Risk Groups sheet amount sheet amount sheet amount sheet amount amount density Current Period risk mitigation risk mitigation risk weighted amount density 1 Exposures to sovereigns and Risk weighted their central banks 6.058.395 186.912 6.245.788 37.382 1.628.438 26% On-Balance Off-balance On-Balance Off-balance Risk weighted amount 2 Exposures to regional and local Risk Groups sheet amount sheet amount sheet amount sheet amount amount density governments 3.000 600 300 50% 1 Exposures to sovereigns and 3 Exposures to administrative their central banks 7.326.880 215.340 7.473.859 43.067 2.271.937 30% bodies and noncommercial 2 Exposures to regional and local entities 11.946 2.389 2.389 100% governments 3.000 3.000 1.500 50% 4 Exposures to multilateral 3 Exposures to administrative development banks bodies and noncommercial 5 Exposures to international entities 1 5.987 1 1.197 1.198 100% organizations 4 Exposures to multilateral 6 Exposures to banks and development banks securities firms 2.741.096 1.083.722 2.742.650 180.015 1.893.147 65% 5 Exposures to international 7 Exposures to corporates 25.907.012 21.403.208 25.696.342 2.350.707 27.813.589 99% organizations 8 Retail exposures 6 Exposures to banks and 9 Exposures secured by residental securities firms 2.149.055 1.246.894 2.149.055 207.598 1.529.146 65% real estate property 7 Exposures to corporates 28.386.532 26.713.210 28.221.805 3.470.616 31.140.209 98% 10 Exposures secured by 8 Retail exposures commercial real estate property 1.154.961 240.271 1.154.961 233.618 694.289 50% 9 Exposures secured by residental 11 Past due receivables 597.210 427.721 424.469 99% real estate property 12 Exposures in higher-risk 10 Exposures secured by categories 107.404 1.114 1.380 124% commercial real estate property 1.554.435 100.434 1.554.435 97.356 825.895 50% 13 Exposures in the form of bonds 11 Past due receivables 1.107.772 749.429 748.763 100% secured by mortgages 12 Exposures in higher-risk 14 Short term exposures to categories 39.938 587.248 39.938 37.716 116.186 150% banks, brokerage houses and 13 Exposures in the form of bonds corporates secured by mortgages 15 Equity investments in the 14 Short term exposures to form of collective investment banks, brokerage houses and undertakings corporates 16 Other exposures 736.831 194.847 616.703 98.615 715.291 100% 15 Equity investments in the 17 Equity investments 498.767 498.767 1.119.256 224% form of collective investment 18 Total 37.694.271 23.231.310 37.382.933 2.904.440 34.292.548 85% undertakings 16 Other exposures 894.287 118.188 818.699 96.782 915.451 100% 17 Equity investments 654.308 654.308 1.391.974 213% 18 Total 42.113.208 28.990.301 41.661.529 3.957.332 38.942.259 85% 406 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 407 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION FOUR (Continued) SECTION FOUR (Continued) INFORMATION ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) INFORMATION ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) X. Explanations related to consolidated risk management (continued) X. Explanations related to consolidated risk management (continued) Explanations related to credit risk (continued) Explanations related to credit risk (continued) Credit risk under standardised approach (continued) Credit risk under standardised approach (continued) Exposures by asset classes and risk weights Exposures by asset classes and risk weights (continued) 50% 50% Secured Total Risk Secured Total Risk Current Period by Real Amount by Real Amount Risk Groups/Risk Estate (after CCR Prior Period Estate (after CCR Weight 0% 10% 20% Property 75% 100% 150% 200% 250% and CVA) Risk Groups/Risk Weight 0% 10% 20% Property 75% 100% 150% 200% Others and CVA) 1 Exposures to sovereigns 1 Exposures to sovereigns and their central banks 5.244.989 2.271.937 7.516.926 and their central banks 4.654.732 1.628.438 6.283.170 2 Exposures to regional 2 Exposures to regional and and local governments 3.000 3.000 local governments 600 600 3 Exposures to 3 Exposures to administrative bodies administrative bodies and and noncommercial noncommercial entities 2.389 2.389 entities 1.198 1.198 4 Exposures to multilateral 4 Exposures to multilateral development banks development banks 5 Exposures to international 5 Exposures to organizations international 6 Exposures to banks and organizations securities firms 1.122.881 262.426 1.537.358 2.922.665 6 Exposures to banks and 7 Exposures to corporates 9.689 451.418 27.585.942 28.047.049 securities firms 853.632 289.203 1.213.818 2.356.653 8 Retail exposures 7 Exposures to corporates 576.608 181.851 30.933.962 31.692.421 9 Exposures secured by 8 Retail exposures property 1.388.579 1.388.579 9 Exposures secured by 10 Past due receivables 8.247 417.732 1.742 427.721 property 1.651.791 1.651.791 11 Exposures in higher-risk 10 Past due receivables 3.212 744.337 1.880 749.429 categories 292 822 1.114 11 Exposures in higher-risk 12 Exposures in the form categories 294 77.360 77.654 of bonds secured by 12 Exposures in the form mortgages of bonds secured by 13 Short term exposures to mortgages banks, brokerage houses 13 Short term exposures to and corporates banks, brokerage houses 14 Equity investments in and corporates the form of collective 14 Equity investments in investment undertakings the form of collective 15 Equity investments 85.108 413.659 498.767 investment undertakings 16 Other exposures 27 715.292 715.319 15 Equity investments 162.531 491.777 654.308 17 Total 4.654.759 1.132.570 2.111.562 31.972.259 2.564 413.659 40.287.373 16 Other exposures 30 915.451 915.481 17 Total 5.245.019 1.430.240 2.129.351 36.243.234 79.240 491.777 45.618.861 408 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 409 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION FOUR (Continued) SECTION FOUR (Continued) INFORMATION ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) INFORMATION ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) X. Explanations related to consolidated risk management (continued) X. Explanations related to consolidated risk management (continued) Disclosures on counterparty credit risk (CCR) Disclosures on counterparty credit risk (CCR) (continued) Qualitative disclosures on CCR Analysis of counterparty credit risk (CCR) exposure by approach (continued) Counterparty credit risk is managed by monitoring the concentrations at various levels with regard to counterparty credit Alpha risks, the capital requirement imposed by the counterparty credit risk and the limits set by the Board of Directors for used for Exposure counterparty transactions. Moreover, the ratio of the counterparty credit risk exposure to total risk-weighted assets has been computing at default Potential regulatory post Risk identified as a risk appetite indicator. Replacement future exposure Credit risk weighted Prior Period cost exposure EEPE at default mitigation amount Counterparty credit risk resulting from repurchase transactions, securities and commodities lending transactions and derivatives transactions is calculated within the framework of Annex 2 of the Regulation on the Measurement and 1 Standardised Approach (for derivatives) 979.220 423.960 1.403.180 820.760 Assessment of the Capital Adequacy of Banks. Fair Value Valuation Method is applied for derivatives transactions. Risk 2 Internal Model Method (for repo transactions, securities or commodity lending or borrowing exposure of derivative transactions is equal to the sum of replacement cost and potential credit risk amount. Besides, capital transactions, long settlement transactions and requirement is also calculated for credit valuation adjustment (CVA) risk in relation to derivatives transactions. For repurchase securities financing transactions) and securities lending transactions risk amount is calculated considering volatility and credit quality level. 3 Simple Approach for credit risk mitigation (for Derivatives transactions executed with counterparties are carried out within the scope of “ISDA” and “CSA” agreements. These repo transactions, securities or commodity lending or borrowing transactions, long settlement agreements contain the same collateralization provisions for our Bank and counterparties and daily collateral settlement is transactions and securities financing transactions) performed. 4 Comprehensive Approach for credit risk mitigation Analysis of counterparty credit risk (CCR) exposure by approach (for repo transactions, securities or commodity lending or borrowing transactions, long settlement Alpha transactions and securities financing transactions) 435.992 280.613 used for Exposure 5 Value-at-Risk (VaR) for repo transactions, securities computing at default or commodity lending or borrowing transactions, Potential regulatory post Risk long settlement transactions and securities financing Replacement future exposure Credit risk weighted transactions Current Period cost exposure EEPE at default mitigation amount 6 Total 1.101.373 1 Standardised Approach (for derivatives) 884.274 339.099 1.223.373 728.726 2 Internal Model Method (for repo Credit valuation adjustment (CVA) for capital charge transactions, securities or commodity Exposure at default post-credit Risk weighted lending or borrowing transactions, long Current Period risk mitigation techniques amount settlement transactions and securities Total portfolios subject to the Advanced CVA capital charge financing transactions) 1 (i) VaR component (including the 3*multiplier) 3 Simple Approach for credit risk mitigation (for repo transactions, securities or 2 (ii) Stressed VaR component (including the 3*multiplier) commodity lending or borrowing 3 All portfolios subject to the Standardised CVA capital charge 1.223.373 381.915 transactions, long settlement transactions 4 Total subject to the CVA capital charge 1.223.373 381.915 and securities financing transactions) 4 Comprehensive Approach for credit risk Exposure at default post-credit Risk weighted mitigation (for repo transactions, securities Prior Period risk mitigation techniques amount or commodity lending or borrowing Total portfolios subject to the Advanced CVA capital charge transactions, long settlement transactions 1 (i) VaR component (including the 3*multiplier) and securities financing transactions) 749.803 294.788 2 (ii) Stressed VaR component (including the 3*multiplier) 5 Value-at-Risk (VaR) for repo transactions, 3 All portfolios subject to the Standardised CVA capital charge 1.403.180 396.817 securities or commodity lending or 4 Total subject to the CVA capital charge 1.403.180 396.817 borrowing transactions, long settlement transactions and securities financing transactions 6 Total 1.023.514 410 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 411 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION FOUR (Continued) SECTION FOUR (Continued) INFORMATION ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) INFORMATION ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) X. Explanations related to consolidated risk management (continued) X. Explanations related to consolidated risk management (continued) Explanations on counterparty credit risk (CCR) Explanations on counterparty credit risk (CCR) (continued) Standardised approach Counterparty credit risk exposures by regulatory portfolio and risk weights Standardised approach Counterparty credit risk exposures by regulatory portfolio and risk weights (continued) Current Period Prior Period Risk Weight Total credit Risk Weight Total credit Risk Groups 0% 10% 20% 50% 75% 100% 150% Other exposure(1) Risk Classes 0% 10% 20% 50% 75% 100% 150% Other exposure(1) Exposures to sovereigns Exposures to sovereigns and their central banks 2.696 2.696 and their central banks 154 154 Exposures to regional and Exposures to regional and local governments local governments Exposures to Exposures to administrative bodies and administrative bodies and noncommercial entities 4.914 4.914 noncommercial entities 1.099 1.099 Exposures to multilateral Exposures to multilateral development banks development banks Exposures to international Exposures to international organizations organizations Exposures to banks and Exposures to banks and securities firms 547.577 1.023.200 7.550 1.578.327 securities firms 293.444 1.006.089 57 1.299.590 Exposures to corporates 386.465 386.465 Exposures to corporates 534.856 534.856 Retail exposures Retail exposures Exposures secured by Exposures secured by property property Past due receivables Past due receivables Exposures in higher-risk Exposures in higher-risk categories categories Exposures in the form Exposures in the form of bonds secured by of bonds secured by mortgages mortgages Securitization positions Securitization positions Short term exposures to Short term exposures to banks, brokerage houses banks, brokerage houses and corporates and corporates Equity investments in Equity investments in the form of collective the form of collective investment undertakings investment undertakings Equity investments Equity investments Other exposures Other exposures 3.474 3.474 Other assets 773 773 Other assets Total 547.577 1.023.200 402.398 1.973.175 Total 293.444 1.006.089 539.640 1.839.173 (1) Total Credit Exposures Amount: The amount which is related to capital adequacy calculation after implementation of counter party credit risk mitigation techniques. (1) Total Credit Exposures Amount: The amount which is related to capital adequacy calculation after implementation of counter party credit risk mitigation techniques. 412 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 413 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION FOUR (Continued) SECTION FOUR (Continued) INFORMATION ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) INFORMATION ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) X. Explanations related to consolidated risk management (continued) X. Explanations related to consolidated risk management (continued) Disclosures on counterparty credit risk (CCR) (continued) Exposure to central counterparties (CCP) Collaterals used for CCR Exposure at Default Current Period Post CRM RWA Collaterals received Collaterals given Collaterals Collaterals Exposure to Qualified Central Counterparties (QCCPs) Total 241.802 5.281 Current Period Segregated Unsegregated Segregated Unsegregated received given Exposures for trades at QCCPs (excluding initial margin and default fund Cash domestic currency 491.072 contributions) of which 148.244 2.964 Cash foreign currency 1.454.070 (i) OTC Derivatives 127.470 2.549 Domestic sovereign debt 658 (ii) Exchange-traded Derivatives 5.324 106 Other sovereign debt (iii) Securities financing transactions 15.449 309 Government agency debt (iv) Netting sets where cross-product netting has been approved Corporate bonds Segregated initial margin 22.880 Equity securities Non-segregated initial margin Other collateral Pre-funded default fund contributions 70.678 2.317 Total 1.945.800 Unfunded default fund contributions Exposures to nonCentral Counterparties (QCCPs) Total Collaterals received Collaterals given Collaterals Collaterals Exposures for trades at non-QCCPs (excluding initial margin and Prior Period Segregated Unsegregated Segregated Unsegregated received given default fund contributions); of which Cash domestic currency 163.910 (i) OTC Derivatives Cash foreign currency 773.267 (ii) Exchange-traded Derivatives Domestic sovereign debt (iii) Securities financing transactions Other sovereign debt (iv) Netting sets where cross-product netting has been approved Government agency debt Segregated initial margin Corporate bonds Non-segregated initial margin Equity securities Pre-funded default fund contributions Other collateral Unfunded default fund contributions Total 937.177 Explanations on securitizations Credit derivatives None (31 December 2018 : None). None (31 December 2018 : None). 414 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 415 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION FOUR (Continued) SECTION FOUR (Continued) INFORMATION ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) INFORMATION ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STRUCTURE AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued) X. Explanations related to consolidated risk management (continued) X. Explanations related to consolidated risk management (continued) Disclosures on market risk Disclosure on operational risk Qualitative information to be disclosed to public concerning market risk Information to be disclosed to the public regarding operational risk Market risk is the possibility of a risk being incurred by the portfolio or position accepted within the scope of trading portfolio Operational Risk Exposure is measured in the Bank once a year by using the Basic Indicator Method based on the “Regulation as a result of interest rates, equity prices, commodity prices in financial markets and exchange rate fluctuations. The purpose on the Measurement and Assessment of the Capital Adequacy of Banks”. of market risk management is to manage, within the appropriate parameters, the risks which the Bank might be exposed to with a proactive approach and thus maximize the Bank’s risk adjusted return. Total/No. of years of Interest rate, exchange rate, stock and commodity price risks are the major elements of market risk. In order to control 31/12/2016 31/12/2017 31/12/2018 positive gross Rate (%) Total these risks in a healthy manner the core principal is to manage transactions carried out in money and capital markets such Gross Income 739.710 1.034.921 1.473.010 1.082.547 15 162.382 that they do not form concentration in terms of instrument, maturity, currency, interest type and other similar parameters, Capital Requirement for and in a “well diversified” manner in accordance with their risk levels. Moreover, the creditworthiness of issuers of financial Operational Risk (Total*12,5) 2.029.776 instruments causing market risk is monitored carefully. Market Risk is managed by using consistent risk measurements and criteria fluctuation level of interest rates and/or prices and Value at Risk calculations, establishing appropriate procedures Total/No. for control and monitoring compliance with identified risk limits and risk appetite. Market risk is measured, monitored and of years of reported by the Department of Risk Management. The Bank uses two main approaches in the calculation of market risk BRSA 31/12/2015 31/12/2016 31/12/2017 positive gross Rate (%) Total Standard Method and Value at Risk (VaR) approach. Gross Income 660.354 739.710 1.034.921 811.662 15 121.749 Capital Requirement for Market risk measurement, monitoring and reporting is carried out by the Risk Management Department. In the calculation of Operational Risk (Total*12,5) 1.521.866 the market risk, the Bank uses two basic approaches as the BRSA Standard Method and Risk Value of Return (VaR) approach. The standard method is applied in the calculation of capital adequacy on a monthly basis. VaR calculations are performed periodically and are reported to the senior management. Monte Carlo simulation method is used for VaR calculations. The VaR Disclosures on interest rate risk resulting from banking book model is based on the assumptions of a 99% confidence interval and a 1-day holding period, and the accuracy of the model It is monthly calculated and reported within the scope of the Standard Shock Measurement and Evaluation Method of the is assured by back-testing which is based on the comparison of calculated VaR Value against incurred losses. Besides, stress Interest Rate Risk in Banking Accounts Duration. tests are conducted so as to identify the impacts on VaR which will be highly damaging, although their occurrence is a low possibility. The economic valuation differences of the Bank arising from fluctuations on interest rates, in different currencies that is calculated in accordance with the communiqué are presented in the table below. In addition to the activities of the Risk Management Department, the Treasury Control Unit also reports daily positions and limit use status to the senior management. Current Period Revenue/Shareholders’ Market Risk-standard approach Applied Shock Equity Loss/Shareholders’ Risk Weighted Amount (RWA) Currency (+/x basis point) Revenue/Loss Equity Current Period Prior Period TL +500/(400) basis point (157.080)/144.247 (2,08%)/1,91% Outright products Euro +200/(200) basis point 57.159/(4.926) 0,76%/(0,07%) 1 Interest rate risk (general and specific) 257.900 218.825 US Dollar +200/(200) basis point (258.991)/276.863 (3,42%)/3,66% 2 Equity risk (general and specific) Total (for Negative Shocks) 416.184 5,50% 3 Foreign exchange risk 201.301 283.025 Total (for Positive Shocks) (358.912) (4,74%) 4 Commodity risk Prior Period Options Revenue/Shareholders’ 5 Simplified approach Applied Shock Equity Loss/Shareholders’ 6 Delta-plus method 162 Currency (+/x basis point) Revenue/Loss Equity 7 Scenario approach TL +500/(400) basis point (127.184)/114.525 (2,10%)/1,89% 8 Securitisation Euro +200/(200) basis point 99.169/(35.554) 1,64%/(0,59%) 9 Total 459.363 501.850 US Dollar +200/(200) basis point 90.703/(123.367) 1,65%/(2,04%) Total (for Negative Shocks) (44.397) (0,73%) Total (for Positive Shocks) 71.688 1,18% 416 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 417 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION FIVE SECTION FIVE EXPLANATIONS AND DISCLOSURES ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS EXPLANATIONS AND DISCLOSURES ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS I. Explanations and disclosures related to the consolidated assets I. Explanations and disclosures related to the consolidated assets (continued) 1.a Information on cash and balances with the Central Bank of Turkey: 2 Information on financial assets at fair value through profit and loss: Current Period Prior Period 2.a Information on financial assets designated at fair value through profit and loss given as collateral or blockage: TL FC TL FC Cash in TL/Foreign Currency 29 27 As of the reporting date, the Group has no financial assets designated at fair value through profit and loss given as collateral or blockage. (31 December 2018:None) Balances with the Central Bank of Turkey 484 803.528 6.326 736.875 Other 2.b Financial assets designated at fair value through profit and loss subject to repurchase agreements: Total 513 803.528 6.353 736.875 As of the reporting date, the Bank has no financial assets designated at fair value through profit and loss subject to Current Period (1) Prior Period repurchase agreements. (31 December 2018:None) TL FC TL FC 2.c Positive differences related to derivative financial assets : Unrestricted demand deposits 484 7.461 6.326 6.602 Unrestricted time deposits Current Period Prior Period Restricted time deposits Derivative Instruments (1) FC TL FC FC Other (2) 796.067 730.273 Forward Transactions 44.124 163 151.345 1.008 Total 484 803.528 6.326 736.85 Swap Transactions 609.141 231.423 605.869 161.353 (1) Deposits at Central Bank of Turkey held as reserve requirement. Futures Transactions (2) Provision amounting to TL 429 is allocated in “Balances with the Central Bank of Turkey” (31 December 2018: TL 243) Options 9.596 59.646 Other As per the Communiqué numbered 2005/1 “Reserve Deposits” of the CBRT, banks keep reserve deposits at the CBRT for their Total 653.265 241.182 757.214 222.007 TL and FC liabilities mentioned in the communiqué. Reserves are calculated and set aside every two weeks on Fridays for 14 days periods. Interest rate for the required reserves in Turkish Lira is paid effective rate since 21 September 2018. (1) Derivative Financial Assets for Hedging Purposes amounting to TL 67.884 are presented in the “Derivative Financial Assets” account in accordance with the financial statement format with effective date of 1 January 2019. (31 December 2018 : None) The CBRT Required reserves of 2 May 2015 has started to pay interest to the Required reserves, reserve options and As part of its economic hedging strategy, the Parent Bank has implemented TL cross currency interest rate swap transactions unrestricted account held in US dollars according to regulation released at 5 May 2015. in which the Bank’s default risk is the reference. These swap agreements are subject to a direct closing condition for both the On 20 August, 2019 Central Bank of the Republic of Turkey changed the required reserves and TL reserve requirement ratio, Bank and the counterparty, in the event of a credit default event (such as a non-payment) related to the Bank, to cancel the excluding loans granted to banks with loans indexed to foreign banks, TL denominated cash on standard loans and close amounts accrued in the contract and all future payments. The market rediscount value of these swaps with a nominal value of monitoring loans have been associated with annual growth rates of the total. Accordingly, TL required reserve ratios have USD 245 million as of 31 December 2019 is TL 514.980 and the average rates are between 2020 and 2023. been reduced for the banks whose loan growth is between 10 and 20 percent, while the reserve requirement ratios for 2.d Loans at Fair Value Through Profit or Loss: other banks have not been changed. As per the “Communiqué on Amendments to be Made on Communiqué on Required Reserves” of Central Bank of Turkey, numbered 2011/11 and 2011/13, required reserves for Turkish Lira and Foreign currency Net Book Value Current Period Prior Period liabilities are set at Central Bank of Turkey based on rates mentioned below. Reserve rates prevailing at 30 September 2019 Loans at Fair Value Through Profit or Loss 263.097 290.660 are presented in table below: Reserve Rates for Turkish Lira Liabilities (%) As explained in part 5 Note I.16, it includes the loan extended to the special purpose company . The related loan is monitored Original Maturity Reserve Ratio as loans whose fair value through profit or loss within the scope of TFRS 9. As of 31 December 2019, the study results of an independent valuation company are based on in determining the fair value. Until 1 year maturity (1 year include) 7 1-3 year maturity (3 year include) 3,5 More than 3 year maturity 1 Original Maturity Reserve Ratio Until 1 year maturity (1 year included) 21 1-2 year maturity (2 year included) 16 2-3 year maturity (3 year included) 11 3-5 year maturity (5 year included) 7 More than 5 year maturity 5 418 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 419 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION FIVE (Continued) SECTION FIVE (Continued) EXPLANATIONS AND DISCLOSURES ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) EXPLANATIONS AND DISCLOSURES ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) I. Explanations and disclosures related to the consolidated assets (continued) I. Explanations and disclosures related to the consolidated assets (continued) 3. Information on banks and foreign bank accounts 4. Information on financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income (continued): 3.a Information on banks: 4.a.2 Information on financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income given as collateral or blockage: (continued): Current Period (1) Prior Period TL FC TL FC Current Period Prior Period Banks TP YP TP YP Domestic 12.973 185.230 36.469 735.123 Share certificates Foreign 59.489 35.639 Bond, treasury bill and similar investment Branches and head office abroad securities 749.163 1.078.533 634.489 819.159 Total 12.973 244.719 36.469 770.762 Other Total 749.163 1.078.533 634.489 819.159 (1) Provision amounting to TL 384 is allocated in “Banks”.(31 December 2018: TL 234) 3.b Information on banks and foreign bank accounts: 4.b Major types of financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income: Unrestricted Amount Restricted Amount Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income comprised of government bonds 47,81%, Eurobonds Current Period Prior Period Current Period Prior Period 45,92% and shares and other securities 5,28%. (31 December 2018 : government bonds 58,72%, Eurobonds 34,06% and European Union Countries 1.779 1.597 shares and other securities 7,22%.) USA and Canada 50.431 32.303 4.c. Information on financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income: OECD Countries (1) 7.279 1.739 Off-shore banking regions Current Period Prior Period Other Debt securities 4.107.611 3.503.459 Total 59.489 35.639 Quoted on a stock exchange 2.155.330 2.252.288 Unquoted 1.952.281 1.251.171 (1) OECD countries other than European Union countries, USA and Canada. Share certificates 126.600 99.306 4. Available-for-sale financial assets subject to repurchase agreements: Quoted on a stock exchange 20.662 10.533 Unquoted 105.938 88.773 4.a.1 Information on financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income subject to repurchase Impairment provision(-) 47.938 182.695 agreements: Total 4.186.273 3.420.070 Current Period Prior Period TP YP TP YP There is no provision for “Financial Assets at Fari Value Through Other Conmprehensive Income” Government bonds 287.144 542.673 16.347 155.306 The net book value of unquoted financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income share certificates is TL Treasury bills 95.907. (31 December 2018: TL 74.261) Other government debt securities Bank bonds and bank guaranteed bonds 5. Explanation on loans Asset backed securities 5.a Information on all types of loans and advances given to shareholders and employees of the Bank: Other Total 287.144 542.673 16.347 155.306 Current Period Prior Period Cash Loans Non-Cash Loans Cash Loans Non-Cash Loans 4.a.2 Information on financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income given as collateral or Direct loans granted to shareholders 251.238 102.776 blockage: Corporate shareholders 251.238 102.776 Real person shareholders As of balance sheet date, all financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income given as collateral comprise of financial assets issued by the T.R. Undersecreteriat of Treasury. The carrying value of those assets is TL 1.827.696. Indirect loans granted to shareholders Loans granted to employees 740 662 Total 251.978 103.438 420 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 421 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION FIVE (Continued) SECTION FIVE (Continued) EXPLANATIONS AND DISCLOSURES ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) EXPLANATIONS AND DISCLOSURES ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) I. Explanations and disclosures related to the consolidated assets (continued) I. Explanations and disclosures related to the consolidated assets (continued) 5. Explanation on loans 5. Explanations on loans (continued) 5.b Information on the first and second group loans and other receivables including restructured or rescheduled 5.b Information on the first and second group loans and other receivables including restructured or rescheduled loans: loans: (continued) 5.b.1 Loans measured at Fair Value through Profit/Loss: 5.b.2 Loans at measured amortized cost Current Period Net Book Value Prior Period (1) Loans Under Close Monitoring Loans Measured at Fair Value through Profit/Loss (*) 263.097 Amendments on (*) Include the loan granted to the special purpose entity as detailed in Section Five Note 16. This loan is accounted under loans measured at fair value through profit/loss Conditions of Contract as per TFRS 9. Loans Not Subject Loans with Revised Cash Loans Standard Loans to Restructuring Contract Terms Refinance 5.b.2 Information on Standard and Close Monitoring loans and restructured Close Monitoring loans Non-specialized loans 24.556.445 1.716.827 219.817 716.255 Current Period (1) Loans Under Close Monitoring Working Capital loans 2.761.098 35.345 716.255 Amendments on Export loans 443.697 66.900 Conditions of Contract Import loans Loans Not Subject Loans with Revised Loans given to financial sector 2.986.797 Cash Loans Standard Loans to Restructuring Contract Terms Refinance Consumer loans 662 Non-specialized loans 26.862.157 803.006 1.696.477 830.780 Credit cards Working Capital loans 3.075.576 69.185 180.038 830.780 Other 18.364.191 1.681.482 152.917 Export loans 663.864 78.028 Specialized loans Import loans Other receivables 128.765 Loans given to financial sector 4.521.463 Total 24.685.210 1.716.827 219.817 716.255 Consumer loans 740 (1) According to Bank account plan purchasing Loans, Fleet Leasing Credits, Refinancing Loans and Portfolio Transfer Credits amounting to TL 5.168.405 shown under Credit cards “Working Capital Loans”, due to the nature of “Investment” shown under the category “other” in the above footnote. Other 18.600.514 733.821 1.438.411 Current Period Prior period Specialized loans Loans under Close Loans under Close Other receivables 216.424 Standard Loans Monitoring Standard Loans Monitoring Total 27.078.581 803.006 1.696.477 830.780 12 Months Expected Credit Loss 174.056 135.537 (1) According to Bank account plan purchasing Loans, Fleet Leasing Credits, Refinancing Loans and Portfolio Transfer Credits amounting to TL 4.648.486 shown under Significant Increase in Credit “Working Capital Loans”, due to the nature of “Investment” shown under the category “other” in the above footnote. Risk 350.807 211.140 422 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 423 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION FIVE (Continued) SECTION FIVE (Continued) EXPLANATIONS AND DISCLOSURES ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) EXPLANATIONS AND DISCLOSURES ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) I. Explanations and disclosures related to the assets (continued) I. Explanations and disclosures related to the assets (continued) 5. Explanations on loans (continued) 5. Explanations on loans (continued) 5.c Loans according to their maturity structure: 5.d Information on consumer loans, individual credit cards, personnel loans and credit cards given to personnel: Loans Current Period Short Term Medium and Long Term Total Under Close Monitoring Consumer Loans-TL Current Period (*) Standard Loans Nonrestructured Restructured Real Estate Loans Vehicle Loans Short-term loans 3.905.313 69.185 General Purpose Loans Non-specialized loans 3.688.889 69.185 Other Specialized loans Consumer Loans -Indexed to FC Other receivables 216.424 Real Estate Loans Orta ve Uzun Vadeli Krediler 23.173.268 733.821 Vehicle Loans Non-specialized loans 23.173.268 733.821 General Purpose Loans Other Specialized loans Consumer Loans-FC Other receivables Real Estate Loans (*) It does not include loans measured at fair value through profit/loss. Vehicle Loans General Purpose Loans Loans Other Under Close Monitoring Individual Credit Cards-TL Current Period (*) Standard Loans Nonrestructured Restructured With Instalments Short-term loans 1.335.812 324.260 66.900 Without Instalments Non-specialized loans 1.207.047 324.260 66.900 Individual Credit Cards-FC With Instalments Specialized loans Without Instalments Other receivables 128.765 Personnel LoansTL 76 664 740 Orta ve Uzun Vadeli Krediler 23.349.398 1.392.567 869.172 Real Estate Loans Non-specialized loans 23.349.398 1.392.567 869.172 Vehicle Loans Specialized loans General Purpose Loans 76 664 740 Other receivables Other Personnel LoansIndexed to FC (*) It does not include loans measured at fair value through profit/loss. Real Estate Loans Vehicle Loans General Purpose Loans Other Personnel Loans-FC Real Estate Loans Vehicle Loans General Purpose Loans Other Personnel Credit CardsTL With Instalments Without Instalments Personnel Credit Cards-FC With Instalments Without Instalments Overdraft AccountsTL (Real Persons) Overdraft Accounts-FC (Real Persons) Total 76 664 740 424 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 425 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION FIVE (Continued) SECTION FIVE (Continued) EXPLANATIONS AND DISCLOSURES ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS EXPLANATIONS AND DISCLOSURES ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) I. Explanations and disclosures related to the consolidated assets (continued) I. Explanations and disclosures related to the consolidated assets (continued) 5. Explanations on loans (continued) 5. Explanations on loans (continued) 5.d Information on consumer loans, individual credit cards, personnel loans and credit cards given to personnel 5.e Information on commercial loans with instalments and corporate credit cards: (continued): The Parent Bank has not granted any commercial loans with instalments and corporate credit cards as of the reporting date Prior Period Short Term Medium and Long Term Total (31 December 2018: None). Consumer Loans-TL Real Estate Loans 5.f Loans according to borrowers: Car Loans General Purpose Loans Current Period Prior Period Other Public 942.805 584.752 Consumer Loans -Indexed to FC Private 29.466.039 27.044.017 Real Estate Loans Total 30.408.844 27.628.769 Car Loans General Purpose Loans (*) Includes fair value through profit or loss loans Other Consumer Loans-FC 5.g Domestic and foreign loans: Real Estate Loans Current Period Prior Period Car Loans Domestic Loans 30.296.704 27.529.071 General Purpose Loans Other Foreign Loans 112.140 99.698 Individual Credit Cards-TL Total 30.408.844 27.628.769 With Instalments Without Instalments (* ) Includes fair value through profit or loss loans Individual Credit Cards-FC With Instalments 5.h Loans granted to subsidiaries and associates: Without Instalments Personnel LoansTL 65 597 662 Current Period Prior Period Real Estate Loans Direct loans granted to subsidiaries and associates 545.560 437.232 Car Loans Indirect loans granted to subsidiaries and associates General Purpose Loans 65 597 662 Total 545.560 437.232 Other Personnel LoansIndexed to FC 5.i Specific provisions provided against loans or default (Stage 3) provisions: Real Estate Loans Car Loans Current Period Prior Period General Purpose Loans Loans and receivables with limited collectability 184.323 12.730 Other Loans and receivables with doubtful collectability 120.078 104.433 Personnel Loans-FC Uncollectible loans and receivables 53.942 52.326 Real Estate Loans Car Loans Total 358.343 169.489 General Purpose Loans Other Personnel Credit CardsTL With Instalments Without Instalments Personnel Credit Cards-FC With Instalments Without Instalments Overdraft AccountsTL (Real Persons) Overdraft Accounts-FC (Real Persons) Total 65 597 662 426 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 427 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION FIVE (Continued) SECTION FIVE (Continued) EXPLANATIONS AND DISCLOSURES ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) EXPLANATIONS AND DISCLOSURES ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) I. Explanations and disclosures related to the consolidated assets (continued) I. Explanations and disclosures related to the consolidated assets (continued) 5. Explanations on loans (continued) 5. Explanations on loans (continued) 5.j Information on non-performing loans (net): 5.j Information on non-performing loans (net) (continued): 5.j.1 Information on loans and other receivables restructured or rescheduled from non-performing loans: 5.j.2 Movement of non-performing loans (continued): III. Group IV. Group V. Group III. Group IV. Group V. Group Loans With Limited Loans With Doubtful Uncollectible Loans and Receivables Loans and Receivables Collectability Collectability Loans With Limited With Doubtful Uncollectible Loans Current Period Prior Period Collectability Collectability and Receivables Gross amounts before provisions 592.614 37.567 Prior Period End Balance 985 4.894 47.696 Restructured loans 592.614 37.567 Additions (+) 490.340 148.151 Prior Period Transfers from Other Categories of NonGross amounts before provisions 1.936 39.951 performing Loans (+) 469.603 4.894 Restructured loans 1.936 39.951 Transfers to Other Categories of Non-performing Loans (-) 469.603 4.894 5.j.2 Movement of non-performing loans: Collections (-) 319 7.637 1.144 Write-offs (-)(1) 147.271 III. Group IV. Group V. Group Sold (-) Loans and Receivables Loans and Receivables Corporate and Commercial Loans With Limited With Doubtful Uncollectible Loans Retail Loans Current Period Collectability Collectability and Receivables Credit Cards Prior Period End Balance 22.719 522.165 52.326 Other Additions (+) 459.570 46.845 9.959 Exchange rate differences of non-performing Transfers from Other Categories of Nonloans 1.316 60.199 performing Loans (+) 22.779 8.215 Current Period End Balance 22.719 522.165 52.326 Transfers to Other Categories of Non-performing Loans (-) (22.779) (8.215) Provisions (-) 12.730 104.433 52.326 Collections (-) (1.640) (68.616) (14.761) Net Balance on Balance Sheet 9.989 417.732 Write-offs (-) (1) The shares that OTAŞ owns and which constitute 55% of Türk Telekom’s issued capital are acquired by a company that is established or will be established for private purposes by creditors within the scope of restructuring of loans granted to Ojer Telekomünikasyon A.Ş. (OTAŞ), the main shareholder of Türk Telekomünikasyon A.Ş. (Türk Sold (-) Telekom). The portion of OTAŞ current exposure exceeding Türk Telekom’s share value is written off . This amount which is written according to the ownership rate USD 28 Corporate and Commercial Loans million (TL 146.730 thousands). Retail Loans Credit Cards 5.j.3 Information on foreign currency non-performing loans and other receivables: Other III. Group IV. Group V. Group Exchange rate differences of non-performing Loans and Receivables Loans and Receivables loans 35 79.087 83 With Limited With Doubtful Uncollectible Loans Current Period End Balance 457.905 594.045 55.822 Collectability Collectability and Receivables Provisions (-) 184.323 120.078 53.942 Current Period Net Balance on Balance Sheet 273.582 473.967 1.880 Period End Balance 10.306 592.614 34.215 Provision (-) 3.223 118.878 32.335 Net Balance on Balance Sheet 7.083 473.736 1.880 Prior Period: Period End Balance 2.098 522.165 32.126 Specific Provision (-) 356 104.433 32.126 Net Balance on Balance Sheet 1.742 417.732 428 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 429 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION FIVE (Continued) SECTION FIVE (Continued) EXPLANATIONS AND DISCLOSURES ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) EXPLANATIONS AND DISCLOSURES ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) I. Explanations and disclosures related to the consolidated assets (continued) I. Explanations and disclosures related to the consolidated assets (continued) 5. Explanations on loans (continued) 5.k Main principles of liquidating non-performing loans and receivables: 5.j Information on non-performing loans (net) (continued): If there are collaterals received in according to Article 13 of the “Regulation on the Procedures And Principles For Determination of Qualifications of Loans and Other Receivables By Banks And Provisions to be Set Aside”, these collaterals are 5.j.4 Information regarding gross and net amounts of non-performing loans with respect to user groups: converted into cash as soon as possible as a result of both administrative and legal proceedings. III. Group IV. Group V. Group In the absence of collaterals, even if there is evidence of insolvency for the debtor, several financial investigations are apply at Loans With Limited Loans With Doubtful Uncollectible various periods to determine whether any property are subsequently acquired and legal proceedings are being followed. Collectability Collectability Loans Current Period (Net) Before and after the beginning of the liquidation process; the Bank management makes investigations on the financial data Loans to Real Persons and Legal Entities (Gross) 457.905 594.045 50.924 of the debtor companies. As a result of these investigations, if the Bank management agrees that the companies show any Provision Amount (-) 184.323 120.078 49.044 indication of operating on an ongoing basis and probably are going to have contributions in the economic environment in Loans to Real Persons and Legal Entities (Net) 273.582 473.967 1.880 the future; the Bank management tries to make the collection through rescheduling the payment terms. Banks (Gross) Provision Amount (-) 5.l Explanations about the write-off policies from the assets: Banks (Net) If there is no collateral against uncollectible loans and receivables and if the receivable amount is less than the cost; tax, fee, Other Loans (Gross) 4.898 and other expenses, made for the legal actions, the receivable is written off from the assets upon the request of the Credit Provision Amount (-) 4.898 Monitoring Department and the approval of the General Management. Other Loans and Receivables (Net) However, if there is a collateral against the receivable and after all the costs of legal actions are fulfilled, and if there is still a III. Group IV. Group V. Group part of receivables not collected, the receivables are written off after getting of pledge shortage and evidence of insolvency Loans and Receivables Loans and Receivables subsequently. With Limited With Doubtful Uncollectible Loans and Collectability Collectability Receivables 6. Information on held-to-maturity investments Prior Period (Net) 6.a The information was subjected to repo transactions and given as collateral/blocked amount of investments : Loans to Real Persons and Legal Entities (Gross) 22.719 522.165 47.490 Provision Amount (-) 12.730 104.433 47.490 Current Period Prior Period Loans to Real Persons and Legal Entities (Net) 9.989 417.732 TP FC TP FC Banks (Gross) Collateralised/Blocked Investments 737.176 26.554 39.757 46.078 Provision Amount (-) Subject to Repurchase Agreements 330.755 100.588 248.394 Banks (Net) Total 1.067.931 127.142 39.757 294.472 Other Loans (Gross) 4.836 Provision Amount (-) 4.836 6.b Information on government debt investments held-to-maturity: Other Loans (Net) Current Period Prior Period 5.j.5 Information on interest accruals, rediscount, and valuation differences calculated for non-performing loans and Government Bonds 2.585.160 2.154.941 their provisions: Treasury Bills III.Group IV.Group V.Group Other Government Debt Securities Loans with Limited Loans with Doubtful Uncollectible Total 2.585.160 2.154.941 Collectability Collectability Loans Current Period (Net) 7 62.652 75 Interest Accruals and Rediscount with Valuation Differences 7.728 90.769 83 Provision amount (-) 7.721 28.117 8 Prior Period (Net) 1.089 48.159 Interest Accruals and Rediscount with Valuation Differences 1.316 60.199 Provision amount (-) 227 12.040 430 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 431 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION FIVE (Continued) SECTION FIVE (Continued) EXPLANATIONS AND DISCLOSURES ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) EXPLANATIONS AND DISCLOSURES ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) I. Explanations and disclosures related to the consolidated assets (continued) I. Explanations and disclosures related to the consolidated assets (continued) 6.c Information on held-to-maturity investments : 7. Information on investments in associates (net) (continued) Current Period Prior Period 7.a.2 Information on unconsolidated associates: (continued) Debt Securities Quoted on a Stock Exchange 2.285.894 1.735.522 Information on associates disposed in the current period Not Quoted 299.266 419.419 In the current period the Group has not disposed any associates. Impairment provision (-) Total 2.585.160 2.154.941 Information on associates purchased in the current period In the current period the Group has not purchased any associates. 6.d Movement of held-to-maturity investments within the year : Current Period Prior Period 7.a.3 Information on the consolidated associates: Balance at Beginning of the Period 2.154.941 1.532.047 Bank’s share Foreign Currency Differences on Monetary Assets 58.982 51.793 percentage-If Purchases During The Period 433.812 227.528 Address (City/ different voting Bank’s risk group Disposals Through Sales And Redemptions (-) 195.251 Title Country) percentage (%) share percentage (%) Impairment Provision (-) 1 İş Faktoring A.Ş. (İş Faktoring) Istanbul/Turkey 21,75 100,00 Interest Income Accruals 132.676 343.573 2 İş Finansal Kiralama A.Ş. (İş Finansal) Istanbul/Turkey 29,46 60,92 Balance at End of Period 2.585.160 2.154.941 3 İş Girişim Sermayesi Yatırım Ortaklığı A.Ş. (İş Girişim) Istanbul/Turkey 16,67 57,67 (1) Provision amounting to TL 3.360 is allocated in “Financial asset measured at amortized cost”.(31 December 2018: TL 1.628) Income 7. Information on investments in associates (net): from Current Prior 7.a.1 As per Communiqué on Preparation of Consolidated Financial Statements of Banks and Turkish Accounting Total Marketable Period Period Standards unconsolidated associates and reason of unconsolidating: Total Fixed Interest Securities Profit/ Profit/ Assets Equity Assets Income Portfolio Loss Loss Fair Value Unconsolidated non-financial associates are valued at cost. 1 İş Faktoring 3.265.258 300.390 1.328 463.111 (23.452) 147.016 78.535 2 İş Finansal 9.088.358 1.273.725 12.417 943.836 84.106 197.536 785.806 7.a.2 Information on unconsolidated associates: 3 İş Girişim 265.801 261.774 1.715 9.276 1.126 1.736 3.211 48.649 Bank’s share percentage-If Current Period Prior Period Address different voting Bank’s risk group Balance at the Beginning of the Period 428.490 355.795 Title (City/Country) percentage (%) share percentage (%) Movements During the Period 36.430 72.695 1 Terme Metal Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş. (Terme) Istanbul/Turkey 17,83 18,76 Purchases 2 Ege Tarım Ürünleri Lisanslı Depoculuk A.Ş. (Ege Bonus Shares Received Tarım) Izmir/Turkey 10,05 20,10 Current Year Share of Profit Sales Non-financial associates, as above, are not consolidated in accordance with the Communiqué on “Preparing Consolidated Revaluation Increase/Decrease (1) 88.213 Financial Statements of the Banks”. Provision for Impairment (-) 36.430 Income from Other (15.518) Total Marketable Current Balance at the End of the Period 464.920 428.490 Total Fixed Interest Securities Period Profit Prior Period Fair Capital Commitments Assets Equity Assets Income Portfolio /Loss Profit/Loss Value Share Percentage at the End of the Period (%) 1 Terme (1) 22.515 5.230 1.554 (35) (30) (1) Includes accounting differences with the equity method. 2 Ege Tarım 15.242 14.161 8.130 2.459 1.730 (1) Represents for the period ended 30 September 2019 financial statements. Prior year profit/loss is obtained from 30 September 2018 financial statements. 432 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 433 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION FIVE (Continued) SECTION FIVE (Continued) EXPLANATIONS AND DISCLOSURES ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) EXPLANATIONS AND DISCLOSURES ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) I. Explanations and disclosures related to the consolidated assets (continued) I. Explanations and disclosures related to the consolidated assets (continued) 7. Information on investments in associates (net) (continued) 8. Information related to subsidiaries (net) 7.a.3 Information on the consolidated associates: (continued) 8.a.1 Information related to equity component of subsidiaries: Information on associates disposed in the current period YF TSKB GYO Yatırım VKŞ Current Period (1) Current Period Current Period Current Period In the current period the Group has not disposed any associates. CORE CAPITAL Information on associates purchased in the current period Paid-in Capital 63.500 300.000 150 Share Premium 593 In current period the Group has not purchased any associates. Legal Reserves 3.681 8.683 Other Comprehensive Income/Loss according to TAS 19.994 7.a.4 Sectoral information of consolidated associates and the related carrying amounts in the legal books: Current and Prior Years’ Profit 30.802 1.568 23 Current Period Prior Period Leasehold Improvements (-) 404 Banks Intangible Assets (-) 1.013 18 9 Insurance Companies Total Core Capital 116.560 310.826 164 Factoring Companies 65.335 65.494 Supplementary Capital Leasing Companies 355.956 319.645 Capital Financial Service Companies Net Available Capital 116.560 310.826 164 Other Financial Associates 43.629 43.351 (1) The information is obtained from financial statements subject to consolidation as of 31 December 2019. 7.a.5 Information on consolidated associates quoted on stock market: YF TSKB GYO Prior Period (1) Prior Period Prior Period Cari Dönem Önceki Dönem CORE CAPITAL Associates Quoted on Domestic Stock Markets 399.584 362.996 Paid-in Capital 63.504 300.000 Associates Quoted on Foreign Stock Markets Share Premium 593 Legal Reserves 2.833 8.777 Other Comprehensive Income according to TAS 17.261 Current and Prior Years’ Profit/Loss 18.249 (44.614) Leasehold Improvements (-) 360 Intangible Assets (-) 714 28 Total Core Capital 100.773 264.728 Supplementary Capital Capital Net Available Capital 100.773 264.728 (1) The information is obtained from financial statements subject to consolidation as of 31 December 2018. Paid in capital has been indicated as Turkish Lira in articles of incorporation and registered in trade registry. Effect of inflation adjustments on paid in capital is the difference caused by the inflation adjustment on shareholders’ equity items. Extraordinary reserves are the status reserves which have been transferred with the General Assembly decision after distributable profit have been transferred to legal reserves. Legal reserves are the status reserves which have been transferred from distributable profit in accordance with the Article of 519 of the Turkish Commercial Code No 6102. The Parent Bank’s internal capital adequacy assessment process is made annually on a consolidated basis. Consolidated subsidiaries and associates are included in the assessment. 434 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 435 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION FIVE (Continued) SECTION FIVE (Continued) EXPLANATIONS AND DISCLOSURES ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) EXPLANATIONS AND DISCLOSURES ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) I. Explanations and disclosures related to the consolidated assets (continued) I. Explanations and disclosures related to the consolidated assets (continued) 8. Information related to subsidiaries (net) (continued) 8. Information related to subsidiaries (net) (continued) 8.a.2 As per Communiqué on Preparation of Consolidated Financial Statements of Banks and Turkish Accounting 8.a.4 Information related to consolidated subsidiaries (continued): Standards unconsolidated subsidiaries and reason of unconsolidating and needed capital if they are subject to capital requirement: Unconsolidated movement related subsidiaries subjected to consolidation is as follows: TSKB Gayrimenkul Değerleme A.Ş., and TSKB Sürdürülebilirlik Danışmanlığı A.Ş. are valued at cost and are not consolidated Current Period Prior Period since they are not financial subsidiaries. Unconsolidated subsidiaries of the Parent Bank are not subject to minimum capital Balance at the Beginning of the Period 301.178 134.976 requirement. Movements During the Period 147.517 166.202 Purchases 400 164.494 8.a.3 Information related to unconsolidated subsidiaries: Bonus Shares Obtained Bank’s share Current Year Shares of Profit Address (City/ percentage-If ifferent Bank’s risk group Sales Title Country) voting percentage (%) share percentage (%) Revaluation Increase 147.117 2.900 1 TSKB Gayrimenkul Değerleme A.Ş. (TSKB GMD) Istanbul/Türkiye 99,99 99,99 Provision for Impairment (1.192) 2 TSKB Sürdürülebilirlik Danışmanlığı A.Ş. (TSKB Balance At the End of the Period 448.695 301.178 SD) Istanbul/Türkiye 95,78 98,51 Capital Commitments Share Percentage at the End of the Period (%) Income from According to the principles of consolidation accounting, the cost values of the consolidated subsidiaries have been deducted Marketable Current Prior from the accompanying consolidated financial statements. Total Shareholders’ Total Fixed Interest Securities Period Period Fair Assets Equity Assets Income Portfolio Profit/Loss Profit/Loss Value Subsidiaries disposed in the current period 1 TSKB GMD (1) 22.390 18.857 1.134 2.074 2.729 2.283 In the current period, the Group has not disposed any subsidiaries. 2 TSKB SD 3.123 2.928 20 572 92 (1.407) 3.800 (1) The information is obtained from financial statements subject to consolidation as of 30 September 2019.Prior period income/loss is obtained from financial statements Subsidiaries purchased in the current period as of 30 September 2018. The Bank classified security investments of TSKB Gayrimenkul Yatırım Ortaklığı A.Ş. (TSGYO) from “financial assets at fair value 8.a.4 Information related to consolidated subsidiaries: through other comprehensive income” to “subsidiaries” in the prior period.In the Board of Directors meeting of the Bank held on 27 August 2018, was decided 100% Capital increase over the nominal value because of the fact that the financing of Bank’s share borrowing debts by increasing the issued capital of the company will contribute positively to the activities and development Address (City/ percentage-If different Bank’s risk group of the Company and the Bank participated in the capital increase of Tl 150 mio in 30 November 2018. Title Country) voting percentage (%) share percentage (%) 1 Yatırım Finansman Menkul Değerler A.Ş.(YF) Istanbul/Turkey 95,78 98,51 In addition, in the Board of Directors meeting held on 30 November 2018, the Bank decided to purchase TSKB GYO A.Ş’s TSKB Gayrimenkul Yatırım Ortaklığı A.Ş. (TSKB shares traded in the stock market until a nominal share of TL 10 million within the next one year and the shares received 2 GYO) Istanbul/Turkey 85,41 89,49 under this program are accounted “Financial Assets at Fair Value Through Profit and Loss”. After this participation, the share of 3 Yatırım Varlık Kiralama A.Ş. Istanbul/Turkey 100,00 100,00 the Bank increased from 70,84% to 88,67%. Income The Parent Bank and YFAŞ made a capital contribution commitment of TL 2,8 and 0,7 million, respectively, for the TL 3,5 from million cash capital increase of TSKB Sustainability Consultancy Inc., Participated by paying 2,4 and 0,6 million TL respectively Marketable Current Prior as of 19 December 2018. On 21 November 2019, participation was achieved by paying 0,4 million TL and 0,1 million TL, Total Total Fixed Interest Securities Period Period Fair respectively. Assets Equity Assets Income Portfolio Profit/Loss Profit/Loss Value YF (1) 786.964 117.977 9.782 56.343 1.324 16.575 11.619 101.342 TSKB GYO (1) 575.937 310.844 296 1.715 46.186 (61.455) 346.953 Yatırım VKŞ (1) 150.647 173 23 150 (1) The consolidated financial data of the subsidiaries are prepared in accordance with BRSA regulations. 436 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 437 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION FIVE (Continued) SECTION FIVE (Continued) EXPLANATIONS AND DISCLOSURES ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) EXPLANATIONS AND DISCLOSURES ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) I. Explanations and disclosures related to the consolidated assets (continued) I. Explanations and disclosures related to the consolidated assets (continued) 8. Information on subsidiaries (net) (continued) 10. Information on finance lease receivables (net) 8.a.5 Sectoral information on subsidiaries subject to consolidation and the related carrying amounts in the legal 10.a Maturities of investments on finance leases: books: Current Period Prior Period Current Period Prior Period Gross Net Gross Net Subsidiaries Less than 1 year 36.531 34.243 31.462 27.962 Banks Between 14 years 93.678 85.056 88.470 78.539 Insurance Companies More than 4 years 10.759 9.575 31.170 27.428 Factoring Companies Total 140.968 128.874 151.102 133.929 Leasing Companies Financial Service Companies A provision amounting to TL 22.564 (31 December 2018: TL 1.411) was provided for the “Financial Lease Receivables” account. Other Financial Subsidiaries 448.695 301.178 10.b The information on net investments in finance leases: 8.a.6 Subsidiaries subject to consolidation quoted on stock market: Current Period Prior Period Current Period Prior Period Gross investments in finance leases 140.968 151.102 Subsidiaries quoted on domestic stock exchanges 346.953 211.144 Unearned revenue from finance leases (-) 12.094 17.173 Subsidiaries quoted on foreign stock exchanges Cancelled finance leases (-) Net investments in finance leases 128.874 133.929 9. Information related to entities under common control 10.c Explanation with respect to finance lease agreements, the criteria used in determination of contingent rents, TSKB GYO, one of the subsidiaries of the Parent Bank, established a joint venture with Bilici Yatırım Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş. in conditions for revisions or purchase options, updates of leasing amounts and the restrictions imposed by lease Adana under the name of Adana Otel Projesi Adi Ortaklığı (“Adana Hotel Project”) on 26 May 2011 and Anavarza Otelcilik arrangements, whether arrays in repayment occur, whether the terms of the contract are renewed, if renewed, the Anonim Şirketi on 27 March 2015. renewal conditions, whether the renewal results any restrictions, and other important conditions of the leasing agreement: The capital structure of the Adana Otel Projesi Adi Ortaklığı (“Adana Hotel Project”) is designated as 50% of participation Bilici Yatırım Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş. and 50% of participation for TSKB GYO. The main operations of Adana Otel Projesi Adi Ortaklığı Finance lease agreements are made in accordance with the related articles of the Financial Leasing, Factoring and Financing is to start, execute, and complete the hotel project which will be operated by Divan Turizm İşletmeleri A.Ş. (previous name Company Law No. 6361. There are no restructuring or restrictions having material effect on financial statements. “Palmira Turizm Ticaret A.Ş.”). 11. Information on derivative financial assets for hedging purposes The capital structure of Anavarza Otelcilik Anonim Şirketi is designated as 50% of participation Bilici Yatırım Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş. and 50% of participation for TSKB GYO. The main operations of Anavarza Otelcilik Anonim Şirketi is tourism oriented There is differences on derivative financial instruments held for hedging purposes amounting to TL 67.884 (31 December hotels, motels, accommodation facilities, gastronomy, sports, entertainment and health care. 2018: None). Hotel Project Ordinary Partnership Commercial Enterprise, owned by TSKB GYO with 50% -50% Bilici Yatırım Sanayi ve Ticaret As of 31 December 2019, the net fair value of derivative financial instruments designated as hedging instruments carried in Anonim Şirketi, together with all its assets and liabilities, as a whole, by changing the type of “Yarsuvat Turizm Anonim Şirketi” the contract amount and the balance sheet are summarized in the following table: It has been transformed into a company named “. Current Period Prior Period Bilici Yatırım TSKB GYO Adana Hotel Project Ordinary Partnership Commercial Enterprise was transformed into Yarsuvat Turizm Face Value Asset Liability Face Value Asset Liability Anonim Şirketi and after the conversion, the transfer of the Adana Chamber of Commerce to Anavarza Otelcilik A.Ş. and 9647 Interest Rate Swap 16.520.430 67.884 (16.545) 18.028.129 (172.258) numbered Merger document on 20 December 2019. FC 16.520.430 67.884 (16.545) 18.028.129 (172.258) TL Current Total Total Fixed Interest Securities Year Prior Year Assets Equity Assets Income Income Profit/Loss Profit/Loss Fair Value Anavarza Otelcilik 10.238 (3.027) 1.332 187 803 438 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 439 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION FIVE (Continued) SECTION FIVE (Continued) EXPLANATIONS AND DISCLOSURES ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) EXPLANATIONS AND DISCLOSURES ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) I. Explanations and disclosures related to the consolidated assets (continued) I. Explanations and disclosures related to the consolidated assets (continued) 11. Information on derivative financial assets for hedging purposes (continued) 12. Information on tangible assets (net) 11.a.1 Information on fair value hedge accounting Since the third quarter of 2015, the Group has changed its accounting policy and adopted the revaluation method under TAS 16 in the valuation of properties included in property, plant and equipment. The appraisal companies authorized by CMB Current Period and BRSA are valued for the year 2019 and are not accounted as there is no significant change with the valuation amount Income St Effect recorded in the previous period. Fair Value Fair Value (Profit/Loss Through Hedging Change of of Hedging Derivative Financial Current Current Item Hedged Item Type of Risk Hedged Item (1) Instrument (1) Instruments) Prior Period Period Period Revaluation Current Aktif Pasif Current Period End Additions Disposals Surplus Period End Interest Rate Swap Fixed Rate Interest Cost Transactions Eurobond and Rate Risk Land and buildings 291.924 41 49.105 341.070 Green bond Issued 127.988 (137.854) (9.866) Assets held under finance leases 5.192 (2.330) 2.862 Interest Rate Swap Fixed Rate Interest Vehicles 1.000 2.348 (813) 2.535 Transactions Loans Used Rate Risk 20.723 (21.390) (667) Right to use Securities 6.997 (455) 6.542 (1) The fair value of hedged item and hedging instrument are presented as net market value excluding credit risk and accumulated interest. Assets held for resale Other 30.040 5.652 (7.280) 28.412 Prior Period Total Cost 328.156 15.038 (10.878) 49.105 381.421 Income St Effect Accumulated depreciation Fair Value Fair Value (Profit/Loss Through Hedging Change of of Hedging Derivative Financial Land and buildings (818) (236) (1.054) Item Hedged Item Type of Risk Hedged Item (1) Instrument (1) Instruments) Assets held under finance leases (5.096) 208 2.013 (2.875) Asset Liability Vehicles (852) (191) 771 (272) Interest Rate Swap Fixed Rate Interest Right to use Securities (1.949) 24 (1.925) Transactions Eurobond and Rate Risk Assets held for resale Green bond Issued 127.988 (137.854) (9.866) Other (28.739) (4.335) 6.998 (2.013) (28.089) Interest Rate Swap Fixed Rate Interest Total accumulated depreciation (35.505) (6.711) 8.001 (34.215) Transactions Loans Used Rate Risk 20.723 (21.390) (667) Impairment provision (1) The fair value of hedged item is presented as net market value less credit risk and accumulated interest. Land and buildings Assets held under finance leases Vehicles Right to use Securities Assets held for resale Other Total impairment provision Net book value 292.651 8.327 (2.877) 49.105 347.206 440 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 441 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION FIVE (Continued) SECTION FIVE (Continued) EXPLANATIONS AND DISCLOSURES ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) EXPLANATIONS AND DISCLOSURES ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) I. Explanations and disclosures related to the consolidated assets (continued) I. Explanations and disclosures related to the consolidated assets (continued) 12. Information on fair value hedge accounting (continued) 13. Information on intangible assets (continued) Current Current 13.c Cost and accumulated amortization at the beginning and end of the period: Prior Period Period Period Revaluation Current Prior Period End Additions Disposals Surplus Other (1) Period End Beginning of Current Period End of Current Period Gross Book Accumulated Gross Book Accumulated Cost Current Period Value Amortization Value Amortization Land and buildings 242.240 2.719 46.965 291.924 Software 9.041 (1.964) 11.946 (6.872) Assets held under finance Goodwill 1.005 1.005 leases 5.221 (29) 5.192 Vehicles 1.057 (57) 1.000 Beginning of Current Period End of Current Period Gross Book Accumulated Gross Book Accumulated Assets held for resale Prior Period Value Amortization Value Amortization Other 28.988 2.170 (1.118) 30.040 Software 6.537 (3.957) 9.042 (5.175) Total Cost 277.506 4.889 (1.204) 46.965 328.156 Goodwill 1.005 1.005 Accumulated depreciation Land and buildings (278) (20) (520) (818) 13.d Movement of cost and accumulated amortization for the period: Assets held under finance Closing leases (5.093) (32) 29 (5.096) Closing Balance of Current Year Current Year Balance of Vehicles (703) (206) 57 (852) Current Period Prior Period Additions Disposals Current Period Assets held for resale Cost Software 115 9 124 Other (25.634) (4.201) 1.096 (28.739) Goodwill 1.005 1.005 Total accumulated Total Cost 1.120 9 1.129 depreciation (31.708) (4.459) 1.182 (520) (35.505) Impairment provision Accumulated Amortization Land and buildings Software 8.839 2.070 (187) 10.722 Assets held under finance Goodwill leases Total Accumulated Amortization 8.839 2.070 (187) 10.722 Vehicles Impairment Provision Assets held for resale Software (5.087) (1.877) 187 (6.777) Other Total Impairment Provision Total impairment provision Net Book Value 4.872 202 5.074 Net book value 245.798 430 (22) 46.445 292.651 Closing Closing Balance of Current Year Current Year Balance of 13. Information on intangible assets Prior Period Prior Period Additions Disposals Current Period 13.a Useful lives and amortization rates used: Cost Software 6.537 2.543 (38) 9.042 Tangible assets, purchased before 1 January 2005, are accounted for at their restated costs as of 31 December 2004 and the Goodwill 1.005 1.005 Total Cost 7.542 2.543 (38) 10.047 assets purchased in the following periods are accounted for at acquisition cost less accumulated depreciation and reserve for impairment. Accumulated Amortization Software (3.957) (1.219) 1 (5.175) Rental or administrative purposes or other unspecified purposes of assets that under construction will be amortised when Goodwill they are ready to use. Total Accumulated Amortization (3.957) (1.219) 1 (5.175) 13.b Amortization methods used: Impairment Provision Software The intangible assets are amortized principally on straight line basis which amortize the assets over their expected useful Total Impairment Provision lives. Net Book Value 3.585 1.324 (37) 4.872 442 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 443 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION FIVE (Continued) SECTION FIVE (Continued) EXPLANATIONS AND DISCLOSURES ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) EXPLANATIONS AND DISCLOSURES ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) I. Explanations and disclosures related to the consolidated assets (continued) I. Explanations and disclosures related to the consolidated assets (continued) 13. Information on intangible assets (continued) 13. Information on intangible assets (continued) 13.e The net book value, description and the remaining amortization period of any material individual intangible 13.m The carrying value of goodwill at beginning and end of the period, and movements within the period: asset in the financial statements: Current Period Prior Period As of the reporting date, the Group has no individual intangible asset which is material to the financial statements as a whole Net Value at the Beginning of the Period 1.005 1.005 (31 December 2018: None). Changes in the Period: Additional Goodwill 13.f Disclosure for intangible assets acquired through government grants and accounted for at fair value at initial recognition: Restatements Arising from Changes in Assets and Liabilities Goodwill Written off due to Discontinued Operations or Partial/Full As of the reporting date, the Group has no intangible assets acquired through government grants (31 December 2018: None). Derecognizing of an Asset (-) Impairment Loss (-) 13.g The method of subsequent measurement for intangible assets that are acquired through government incentives Reversal of Impairment loss (-) and recorded at fair value at the initial recognition: Changes in Carrying Value As of the reporting date, the Group has no intangible assets acquired with government incentives (31 December 2018: None). Net Value at the End of Period 1.005 1.005 13.h The book value of intangible assets that are pledged or restricted for use: 13.n The carrying value of negative goodwill at beginning and end of the period, and movements within the period: As of the reporting date, the Group has no intangible assets with restricted use or pledged (31 December 2018: None). As of the reporting date, the Group has no negative goodwill in the accompanying financial statements (31 December 2018: None). 13.i Amount of purchase commitments for intangible assets: 14. Information on investment properties As of the reporting date, the Group has no purchase commitments for intangible assets (31 December 2018: None). In the current period, the Group has three investment properties with a net book value of TL 273.918 (31 December 2018: TL 13.j Information on revalued intangible assets according to their types: 247.793) belonging to the Parent Bank’s subsidiary operating in the real-estate investment trust sector. Investment properties The Group did not revalue its intangible assets as at the reporting date (31 December 2018: None). movement table as of 31 December 2019 and 31 December 2018 is as follows: 13.k Amount of total research and development expenses recorded in income statement within the period, if any: Opening Balance Change in Fair Closing Balance Current Period of Current Period Additions Disposals Value of Current Period The Group has no research and development costs expensed in the current period (31 December 2018: None). Tahir Han 28.130 8.830 36.960 Pendorya Mall 154.155 1.657 (257) 155.555 13.l Information on goodwill: Adana Hotel Project 65.508 (2.121) 18.016 81.403 Goodwill on Consolidation Effective Share Rate % Carrying Amount Total 247.793 1.657 (2.121) 26.589 273.918 Yatırım Finansman Menkul Değerler A.Ş. 95,78 1.005 Closing Balance Change in Fair Closing Balance Prior Period of Prior Period Additions Disposals Value of Prior Period Tahir Han 25.425 2.705 28.130 Pendorya Mall 152.990 6 1.159 154.155 Adana Hotel Project 64.730 778 65.508 Total 243.145 6 4.642 247.793 444 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 445 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION FIVE (Continued) SECTION FIVE (Continued) EXPLANATIONS AND DISCLOSURES ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) EXPLANATIONS AND DISCLOSURES ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) I. Explanations and disclosures related to the consolidated assets (continued) I. Explanations and disclosures related to the consolidated assets (continued) 15. Information on deferred tax assets 16. Explanation on assets held for sale (continued) 15.a Temporary differences, tax losses, exemptions and deductions reflected to balance sheet as deferred tax asset: The Bank have reached an agreement on restructuring the debts of Ojer Telekomünikasyon A.Ş. (OTAŞ), the major shareholder of Türk Telekomünikasyon A.Ş. (Türk Telekom) provided under the loan agreements. It was completed that 192.500.000.000 The Group has computed deferred tax asset or liability on “temporary differences’’ arising from carrying values of assets and Class A shares owned by OTAŞ in Türk Telekom, representing 55% of Türk Telekom’s issued share capital, which have been liabilities in the accompanying financial statements and their tax bases. pledged as security for the existing loan facilities of OTAŞ, would be taken over by a special purpose vehicle incorporated or to be incorporated in the Republic of Turkey, owned directly or indirectly by the creditors. The Bank has participated in Assets: Current Period Prior Period LYY Telekominakasyon A.Ş. which was established within this context with 1,6172% stake and amounting to Tl 64.403 . The Loan commissions accrual adjustment 22.138 23.032 Bank considered the related investment within the scope of TFRS 5 “Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations” (31 Provisions 129.195 79.690 December 2018: TL 1). Employee benefit provision 3.897 3.258 Marketable Securities 2.028 17. Information about other assets Others 9.179 3.334 17.a Other assets which exceed 10% of the balance sheet total and breakdown of these which constitute at least 20% Total Deferred Tax Asset 166.437 109.314 of grand total: Deferred tax liabilities: Other assets do not exceed 10% of total assets, excluding off-balance sheet commitments (31 December 2018: None). Marketable securities (905) (38.458) II. Explanations and disclosures related to the liabilities Borrowings commissions accrual adjustment (14.744) (12.329) Valuation of derivative instruments (104.207) (43.533) 1. Information of maturity structure of deposits Useful life difference of fixed assets (846) (787) Others (5.805) (10.363) 1.a.1 Maturity structure of deposits: Total Deferred Tax Liability (126.507) (105.470) The Parent Bank is not authorized to accept deposits. Net Deferred Tax Asset 39.930 3.844 1.a.2 Information on saving deposits under the guarantee of saving deposit insurance fund and exceeding the limit of Current Period Prior Period deposit insurance fund: Deferred Tax as of January 1 Asset/(Liability) Net 3.844 40.890 The Parent Bank is not authorized to accept deposits. Deferred Tax (Loss)/Gain 89.505 (102.674) Deferred Tax that is Realized Under Shareholder’s Equity (1) (53.419) 65.628 1.b Information on the scope whether the Bank with a foreign head office suits saving deposit insurance of the Deferred Tax Asset/(Liability) Net 39.930 3.844 related country: 15.b Temporary differences over which deferred tax asset are not computed and recorded in the balance sheet in The Parent Bank is not authorized to accept deposits. prior periods, if so, their expiry date, losses and tax deductions and exceptions: 1.c Saving deposits which are not under the guarantee of deposit insurance fund: No deferred tax difference has been calculated over the previous periods and no tax asset has been calculated and reflected The Parent Bank is not authorized to accept deposits. in the balance sheet. (31 December 2018 : None) 2. Negative differences table related to derivative financial liabilities 15.c Allowance for deferred tax and deferred tax assets from reversal of allowance: Current Period Prior Period As of the reporting date, the Group has no allowance for deferred tax and deferred tax liability from reversal of allowance (31 Derivative Financial Liabilities Held For Trading (1) TL FC TL FC December 2018: None). Forward Transactions 41.025 142 87.610 6.307 16. Explanation on assets held for sale: Swap Transactions 236.399 181,127 354.680 111.839 Futures Transactions Current Period Prior Period Options 9.596 59.646 Net book value at beginning of period 1 Other Cash Paid for Purchase 64.402 1 Total 277.424 190.865 442.290 177.792 Expected Loss (-) Net book value at end of period 64.403 1 (1) Financial Liabilities for Hedging Purposes amounting to TL 16.545 (31 December 2018: TL 172.258) are shown in “Derivative Financial Liabilities” in accordance with the financial statement format with effective date of 1 January 2019. 446 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 447 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION FIVE (Continued) SECTION FIVE (Continued) EXPLANATIONS AND DISCLOSURES ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) EXPLANATIONS AND DISCLOSURES ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) II. Explanations and disclosures related to the consolidated liabilities (continued) II. Explanations and disclosures related to the consolidated liabilities (continued) 3. Information on banks and other financial institutions 3. Information on banks and other financial institutions (continued) 3.a Information on banks and other financial institutions: 3.d Additional information about the concentrated areas of liabilities: Current Period Prior Period Under normal banking operations, the Parent Bank provided funds under repurchase agreements and funds borrowed. TL FC TL FC Fund resources of the Parent Bank particularly consist of foreign FC funds borrowed and FC and TL repurchase transactions. Loans from Central Bank of Turkey Information relating to funds provided under repurchase agreements is shown in the table below: From Domestic Banks and Institutions 513.609 673.969 5.000 420.465 Current Period Prior Period From Foreign Banks, Institutions and Funds 122.030 25.318.717 122.007 23.272.198 TL FC TL FC Total 635.639 25.992.686 127.007 23.692.663 From Domestic Transactions 369.379 216.152 41.539 137.458 Financial institutions and organizations 320.343 3.b Maturity analysis of funds borrowed: Other institutions and organizations 48.417 211.791 41.013 133.730 Current Period Prior Period Real persons 619 4.361 526 3.728 TL FC TL FC From Foreign Transactions 5 446.020 4 Short-term 20.109 132.621 5.000 Financial institutions and organizations 446.020 Medium and long-term 615.530 25.860.065 122.007 23.692.663 Other institutions and organizations 2 2 Total 635.639 25.992.686 127.007 23.692.663 Real persons 3 2 Total 369.384 662.172 41.543 137.458 3.c Additional information about the concentrated areas of liabilities: 4. Other liabilities which exceed 10% of the balance sheet total and the breakdown of these which constitute at least Current Period Prior Period 20% of grand total TL FC TL FC Nominal 5.916.000 6.932.250 There are no other liabilities which exceed 10% of the balance sheet total (31 December 2018: None). Cost 5.884.485 6.917.804 5. Explanations on financial lease obligations (net) Book Value 6.023.450 6.949.189 5.a Explanations on finance lease payables: As of 22 April 2015, the Bank has performed the similar issuance of Eurobond with the nominal amount of USD 350 Million. Interest rate of these debt instruments determined as 5,125% which have the redemption date of 22 April 2020 with fixed The Group has no finance lease payables (31 December 2018: None). interest rate, 5 years maturity and semiannual coupon payment. Selling of Greenbond which was issued by the Parent Bank in abroad with nominal value of USD 300 Million, 5 years maturity and for financing the green and sustainable projects has 5.b Explanations regarding operational leases: been completed on 18 May 2016. The return of these bonds which have the redemption date of 18 May 2021 and 5 years As of the reporting date,2 head office buildings, 8 branches,24 cars and 327 computers are within the context of operational maturity is determined as 5,048% and the coupon rate as 4,875%. As of 16 January 2018, the Bank issued the debt instrument leasing. (31 December 2018: 9 branches, 24 cars and 327 computers are subject to operational leasing). The Group has liability which have nominal value of USD 350 Million, redemption date of 16 January 2023 with fixed interest rate of 5,608%, 5 for operational leases amounting to TL 4.913 as of the reporting date years maturity and semiannual coupon payment.As of 2 August 2019, Yatırım Finansman Menkul Değerler A.Ş has issued a debt instrument of 82 days term with a nominal interest rate of TL 90 million and a simple interest rate of 18,25% with a 5.c Explanations on the lessor and lessee in sale and lease back transactions, agreement conditions, and major redemption date of 23 October 2019. TL 2,5 million of the relevant securities are in the portfolio of the group companies and agreement terms: are eliminated. The Group has no sale and lease back transactions as of the reporting date (31 December 2018: None). 448 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 449 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION FIVE (Continued) SECTION FIVE (Continued) EXPLANATIONS AND DISCLOSURES ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) EXPLANATIONS AND DISCLOSURES ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) II. Explanations and disclosures related to the consolidated liabilities (continued) II. Explanations and disclosures related to the consolidated liabilities (continued) 6. Negative differences on derivative financial instruments held for hedging purposes: 7. Information on provisions (continued) Current Period Prior Period 7.c Information related to other provisions (continued): TL FC TL FC 7.c.2 Information on employee termination benefits and unused vacation accrual (continued): Fair Value Hedge (1) 16.545 172.258 Cash Flow Hedge Liabilities for pension funds established in accordance with Social Security Institution Hedge of net investment in foreign operations None (31 December 2018: None). Total 16.545 172.258 (1) Derivative Financial Liabilities for Hedging Purposes are shown in the “Derivative Financial Liabilities” account in accordance with the financial statement format with Liabilities resulting from all kinds of pension funds, foundations etc. which provide post-retirement benefits for the effective date of 1 January 2019. employees 7. Information on provisions The Bank’s present value of the liabilities of TSKB A.Ş. Memur ve Müstahdemleri Yardım ve Emekli Vakfı fund, subject to the transfer to the Social Security Institution of the Pension Fund as of 31 December 2019 has been calculated by an independent 7.a Foreign exchange losses on the foreign currency indexed loans and finance lease receivables: actuary in accordance with the actuarial assumptions in the Law and as per actuarial report dated 17 January 2020, there is no need for technical or actual deficit to book provision as of 31 December 2019. As of the reporting date, the Bank has no foreign exchange losses on the foreign currency indexed loans (31 December 2018: TL None). Accordingly, as of 31 December 2019 the Parent Bank has no requirements for the benefits transferable to the fund and for other benefits not transferable to the fund and arising from other social rights and payments covered by the existing trust 7.b Unindemnified non-cash loans third stage expected loss provisions or non-cash loans expected loss provisions: indenture of the Fund and medical benefits provided for employees in accordance to the law explained in Note 3.17, the accounting policies related with employee benefits. The Parent Bank’s specific provisions provided for unindemnified non cash loan third stage expected loss provisions amount to TL 838 (31 December 2018: TL 736). 7.c.3 If other provisions exceeds 10% of total provisions, the name and amount of sub-accounts: The Parent Bank’s expected credit loss on non-cash loans is amounting to TL 23.857. (31 December 2018 : TL 11.251) Other provisions, except to free provisions for possible losses, includes amount to TL 23.857 for general provision for noncash loans and other Miscellaneous provisions. (31 December 2018: TL 11.251). 7.c Information related to other provisions: 8. Information on taxes payable 7.c.1 Provisions for possible losses: 8.a Information on current taxes payable Free provision amounting to TL 220.000 provided by the Bank management in the current period for possible results of the circumstances which may arise from possible changes in the economy and market conditions. (31 December 2018: TL 8.a.1 Information on taxes payable: 220.000) Current Period Prior Period 7.c.2 Information on employee termination benefits and unused vacation accrual: Corporate Taxes and Deferred Taxes TL FC TL FC Corporate Taxes Payable 67.608 82.363 The Bank has calculated reserve for employee termination benefits by using actuarial valuations as set out in the Turkish Deferred Tax Liability Accounting Standard No: 19 and reflected the calculated amount to the financial statements. Total 67.608 82.363 As of 31 December 2019, employee termination benefits is amounting TL 14.568 reflected in financial statements (31 December 2018: TL 12.093). As of 31 December 2019, the Bank has provided a reserve for unused vacation amounting to TL 8.a.2 Information on taxes payable: 3.526 (31 December 2018: TL 2.825). This balance is classified under reserve for employee benefits in the financial statements. Current Period Prior Period The actuarial loss amounting to TL 1.034 after 1 January 2019 have been accounted under equity in accordance with the Corporate Taxes Payable 67.608 82.363 revised TAS 19 standard (31 December 2018: TL 684 actuarial loss). Taxation of Securities 1.583 1.442 Capital gains tax on property Liabilities on pension rights Banking and Insurance Transaction Tax (BITT) 7.358 6.835 As explained on the Section Three, Accounting Policies, XVII. Explanations on Liabilities Regarding Employee Benefits as of 31 Foreign Exchange Transaction Tax December 2019, the Group has no obligations on pension rights (31 December 2018: None). Value Added Tax Payable 545 838 Other 5.688 2.120 Total 82.782 93.598 450 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 451 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION FIVE (Continued) SECTION FIVE (Continued) EXPLANATIONS AND DISCLOSURES ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) EXPLANATIONS AND DISCLOSURES ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) II. Explanations and disclosures related to the consolidated liabilities (continued) II. Explanations and disclosures related to the consolidated liabilities (continued) 8.a.3 Information on premiums: 11. Explanations on shareholders’ equity Current Period Prior Period 11.a Presentation of paid-in capital: Social Security Premiums-Employee 177 156 Current Period Prior Period Social Security Premiums-Employer 203 178 Common stock 2.800.000 2.800.000 Bank Social Aid Pension Fund Premium-Employee Preferred stock Bank Social Aid Pension Fund Premium-Employer Pension Fund Membership Fees and Provisions-Employee 11.b Paid-in capital amount, explanation as to whether the registered share capital system ceiling is applicable at Pension Fund Membership Fees and Provisions-Employer bank, if so, amount of registered share capital: Unemployment Insurance-Employee 58 50 Unemployment Insurance-Employer 115 99 Capital System Paid-in capital Ceiling Other 23 23 Registered Capital System 2.800.000 4.500.000 Total 576 506 11.c Information on share capital increases and their sources; other information on increased capital shares in current period: 8.b Explanations on deferred taxes liabilities: In the meeting of the General Assembly held on 28 March 2019, it has been resolved that, the Bank has no capital increase As of the reporting date, the Group has no deferred tax liability (31 December 2018: None). in the current period, and it was decided to transfer the 2018 profit to the reserves within the framework of the General 9. Information on liabilities regarding assets held for sale Assembly Decision. None (31 December 2018: None). In the meeting of the General Assembly held on 23 March 2018, it has been resolved that, paid in capital of the Bank will be increased from TL 2.400.000 to TL 2.800.000 by adding TL 400.000. In respect of the resolution of the General Assembly, all of 10. Explanations on the number of subordinated loans the Parent Bank used, maturity, interest rate, institution that this increase will be incorporated from the profit of the year 2017. Aforementioned increase was approved by the BRSA dated the loan was borrowed from, and conversion option, if any: 26 April 2018 and was announced in the Turkish Trade Registry Gazette dated 7 June 2018 and No. 9605. As of 28 March 2017, the Parent Bank issued the sustainable subordinated debt instruments which have nominal value of 11.d Information on share capital increases from capital reserves: USD 300 Million, redemption date of 29 March 2022 with fixed interest rate of 7,625%, semiannual coupon payment. The value of the borrowing instrument as of the period end is TL 1.830.045. None (31 December 2018: None). Current Period Prior Period 11.e Capital commitments in the last fiscal year and at the end of the following period, the general purpose of these Debt Instruments Subject to Common Equity TP FC TP FC commitments and projected resources required to meet these commitments: Subordinated Loans The Bank has no capital commitments for its associates in the last fiscal year and at the end of the following period (31 Subordinated Debt Instruments December 2018: None). Debt Instruments Subject to Tier II Equity 1.830.045 1.549.774 Subordinated Loans 11.f Indicators of the Bank’s income, profitability and liquidity for the previous periods and possible effects of these Subordinated Debt Instruments 1.830.045 1.549.774 future assumptions on the Bank’s equity due to the uncertainty of these indicators: Total 1.830.045 1.549.774 The prior period income, profitability and liquidity of the Parent Bank and their trends in the successive periods are followed by Budget Planning and Investor Relations Department by considering the outcomes of the potential changes in the foreign exchange rate, interest rate and maturity alterations on profitability and liquidity under various scenario analyses. The Pareny Bank operations are profitable, and the Bank retains the major part of its profit by capital increases or capital reserves within the shareholders equity. 11.g Information on preferred shares: The Parent Bank has no preferred shares (31 December 2018: None). 452 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 453 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION FIVE (Continued) SECTION FIVE (Continued) EXPLANATIONS AND DISCLOSURES ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) EXPLANATIONS AND DISCLOSURES ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) II. Explanations and disclosures related to the consolidated liabilities (continued) III. Explanations and disclosures related to the consolidated off-balance sheet items 11. Explanations on shareholders’ equity (continued) 1. Information on off-balance sheet liabilities 11.h Information on marketable securities value increase fund: 1.a Nature and amount of irrevocable loan commitments: Current Period Prior Period Current Period Prior Period TP YP TP YP Commitments for Forward Purchase and Sales of Assets 21.404 97.040 From Associates, Subsidiaries, and Entities Under Common Commitments for Money Market Brokerage Purchase and Sales 73.508 120.537 Control 23.469 6.791 Commitments for Stock Brokerage Purchase and Sales 345.846 11.621 Available for Sale Financial Assets 79.862 (3.357) (53.478) (69.434) Commitments for Letter of Credit 434.273 805.364 Valuation Differences 59.148 (3.357) (69.182) (69.434) Commitments from Forward Short Term Borrowing and Transfers Foreign Exchange Difference 20.714 15.704 Capital commitments for subsidiaries and associates (1) 96.782 97.805 Total 103.331 (3.357) (46.687) (69.434) Other 332.546 193.329 Total 1.304.359 1.325.696 11.i Informations on legal reserves: (1) The Bank, the European Investment Fund (European Investment Fund EIF), to be established by Turkey, Growth and Innovation Fund (Turkish Growth and Innovation Current Period Prior Period Fund TGIF) purchase of shares of the fund established under the name situated remaining amount that commitment First legal reserve 306.012 186.482 1.b Possible losses and commitments related to off-balance sheet items including items listed below: Second legal reserve 248 85.918 Other Legal Reserves Appropriated In Accordance with 1.b.1 Non-cash loans including guarantees, surety and acceptances, financial collaterals and other letters of credits: Special Legislation 373 373 As of the reporting date, total letters of credits, surety and acceptance amount to TL 2.728.688 (31 December 2018: TL Total 306.633 272.773 1.590.814). 11.j Information on extraordinary reserves: 1.b.2 Certain guarantees, tentative guarantees, surety ships and similar transactions: Current Period Prior Period As of the reporting date, total letters of guarantee is TL 1.819.030 (31 December 2018:TL 1.582.993). Reserves Appropriated by the General Assembly 841.395 177.725 Retained Earnings Accumulated Losses Foreign Currency Share Capital Exchange Differences Total 841.395 177.725 12. Information on minority shares: Current Period Prior Period Paid-in-Capital 34.660 41.566 Other Capital Reserves 33 33 Share Premium 63 77 Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income or Loss Reclassified Through Profit or Loss 774 713 Legal Reserves 160 126 Extraordinary Reserves 706 837 Other Profit Reserves Retained Earnings/Accumulated Losses (3.943) 2.763 Net Profit or Loss 5.637 (7.493) Total 38.090 38.622 454 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 455 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION FIVE (Continued) SECTION FIVE (Continued) EXPLANATIONS AND DISCLOSURES ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) EXPLANATIONS AND DISCLOSURES ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) III. Explanations and disclosures related to the consolidated off-balance sheet items (continued) III. Explanations and disclosures related to the consolidated off-balance sheet items (continued) 1. Information on off-balance sheet liabilities (continued) 1. Information on off-balance sheet liabilities (continued) 1.c.1 Total amount of non-cash loans: 1.c.3 Information on non cash loans classified under Group I and Group II: Current Period Prior Period Ist Group IInd Group Non-cash Loans Given Against Achieving Cash Loans 1.816.072 1.559.897 Current Period Prior Period Current Period Prior Period With Maturity of One Year or Less than One Year 189.403 92.372 TL FC TL FC TL FC TL FC With Maturity of More than One Year 1.626.669 1.467.525 Non-cash Loans 440.861 4.083.632 478.127 2.676.264 6.547 13.350 6.854 9.598 Other Non-Cash Loans 2.731.644 1.613.910 Letters of Guarantee 440.861 1.368.294 478.127 1.095.048 6.547 6.854 Total 4.547.716 3.173.807 Bank Acceptances 190.447 Letters of Credit 2.524.891 1.581.216 13.350 9.598 1.c.2 Information on sectoral risk breakdown of non-cash loans: Endorsements Current Period Prior Period Purchase Guarantees on Issuance of Securities TL (%) TL (%) TL (%) TL (%) Factoring Guarantees Agriculture Other Farming and stockbreeding Forestry 2. Information related to derivative financial instruments Fishing Industry 446.093 99 3.875.939 94 561.688 99 1.811.654 91 As of 31 December 2019, the breakdown of the Bank’s foreign currency forward and swap transactions based on currencies Mining 29.417 1 are disclosed below in their TL equivalents: Manufacturing Industry 224.957 50 2.312.722 56 381.548 68 937.466 48 Current Forward Forward Swap Swap Option Option Other Other Fair Value Electricity, Gas, Water 221.136 49 1.533.800 37 180.140 31 874.188 43 Perior Buy Sell Buy Sell Buy Sell Buy Sell Hedge Construction 3.013 1 27.637 1 146 TL 1.359.615 1.355.680 664.611 2.618.503 444.061 443.961 Services 1.628 193.406 5 1.164 1 199.059 9 ABD Doları 1.067.693 1.068.050 12.393.207 7.923.738 259.855 259.855 16.520.430 Wholesale and Retail Trade 3.947 9.410 Avro 268.272 268.400 3.282.915 5.357.345 184.034 184.034 Hotel, Food and Beverage Diğer 147.015 157.687 Services 115.344 3 Toplam 2.695.580 2.692.130 16.340.733 16.046.601 1.045.637 887.850 16.520.430 Transportation and Communication 1.138 62 44.463 2 Prior Forward Forward Swap Swap Option Option Other Other Fair Value Financial Institutions 96 74.115 2 321 145.186 7 Period Buy Sell Buy Sell Buy Sell Buy Sell Hedge Real Estate and Leasing TL 974.149 845.785 982.222 3.432.783 1.281.990 1.281.990 Services 394 781 1 ABD Self-employment Services Doları 136.897 321.265 10.777.833 6.640.106 1.204.750 1.204.755 18.028.129 Education Services Avro 827.414 695.439 3.890.834 5.382.212 147.514 147.509 Health and Social Services Diğer 166.575 155.096 13.401 Other Toplam 1.938.460 1.862.489 15.817.464 15.610.197 2.634.254 2.634.254 13.401 18.028.129 Total 450.734 100 4.096.982 100 562.998 100 2.010.713 100 456 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 457 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION FIVE (Continued) SECTION FIVE (Continued) EXPLANATIONS AND DISCLOSURES ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) EXPLANATIONS AND DISCLOSURES ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) III. Explanations related to the consolidated off-balance sheet items (continued) III. Explanations related to the consolidated off-balance sheet items (continued) 2. Information related to derivative financial instruments (continued) 4. Information related to derivative financial instruments (continued) Current Period Prior Period Some of the lawsuits are decided favorable, remaining of lawsuits are decided unfavorable by the tax courts of first instance. Derivative Financial Liabilities Fair value Fair value Fair value Fair value Fair value Fair value On the other hand, appeal and objection have been requested by the Parent Bank against the decision of the Court with Held For Trading assets liabilities assets liabilities assets liabilities respect to the Parent Bank and by the administration against the decision of the Court with respect to the administration and Swap Transactions 663.432 286.316 13.847.767 659.811 394.648 14.715.655 completion of appeal process is waited. The tax and penalty notices related to the decision of the tax court of first instance Interest Rate Swap Transactions 177.133 130.228 18.697.254 107.411 71.871 16.712.006 against the Parent Bank are accrued by administration depending on legal process and as of 31 July 2014 the Parent Bank has made total payments amounting to TL 22.091. Forward Transactions 44.287 41.167 5.387.710 152.353 93.917 3.800.949 Futures Transactions A similar case has been submitted to the Constitutional Court in the form of individual remedies by the main shareholder of Option Transactions 9.596 9.596 1.775.800 59.646 59.646 5.268.508 the parent Bank in relation to the parent Bank’s liabilities to pay, the Constitutional Court gave the decision with court file Other 410 13.401 number 2014/6192. According to court decision published in the Official Gazette dated 21 February 2015 and numbered Total 894.448 467.307 39.708.531 979.221 620.492 40.510.519 29274, the assessments against the Parent Bank was contrary to the principle of legality and the Parent Bank’s property rights has been violated. This decision is considered to be a precedent for the Parent Bank and an amount of TL 12.750 Fair value hedges corresponding to the portion that the Parent Bank was obliged to pay for the related period is recognized as income in the prior period. For the year ended 31 December 2019 the Parent Bank has interest rate swaps for hedging purposes nominal amount of TL 16.520.430 (31 December 2018: TL 18.028.129). There is a lawsuit for Pendorya Mall of Company registered in Pendik, Doğu District, plot 105, map 865, parcel 64 against IBB and Karacan Yapı at Pendik 2nd Court of First Instance Pendorya Mall claiming the road intersects his own property and Hedging from the cash-flow risk demanding compensation amounting TL 7. Company has been involved in the lawsuit as intervening party. As of 31 December 2019 there is no cash-flow hedging transactions (31 December 2018: None). Relating to immovable property, subject of litigation discovery review and expert reports were submitted to the court file. Objections to the report and statement of TSKB GYO has been given. IBB Presidency has declared that expropriation 3. Explanations on loan derivatives and risk exposures proceedings related to the subject have been initiated. For this reason, lawsuit was removed from “Possessory Actions” and converted to the “Confiscating without expropriating” by the judge. The Bank has no loan derivatives and such risk exposures to this respect (31 December 2018: None). Accepting in the new case, the plaintiff claimed compensation from the Administration and in order to determine the amount 4. Explanations on contingent liabilities and assets of compensation the Court decided an expert examination since the information provided by the Land Registry and the There are 69 legal cases against the Group which are amounting to TL 5.251 as of the reporting date (31 December 2018: TL Municipality was not deemed sufficient. 5.225 67 legal cases). Expert reports submitted to the Court on 30 May 2013 and the Court decided to add Pendik Municipality as a defendant in Tax Audit Committee inspectors made an investigation for the years 2008-2011 about the payments made by the Parent the case. At the latest hearing on 24 December 2013 it was decided to accept the expert reports and Pendik Municipality Bank and employees to “Türkiye Sınai Kalkınma Bankası A.Ş. Mensupları Munzam Sosyal Güvenlik ve Yardımlaşma Vakfı” to pay the relevant amount (TL 645) to the plaintiff. The reasoned decision has been notified, the decision which has been (Foundation) established in accordance with the decisions of Turkish Commercial Law and Civil Law as made to all appealed by the appellant and the respondent Pendik Municipality has turned deteriorate the Supreme Court decision was Foundations in the sector. According to this investigation it has been communicated that the amount Parent Bank is obliged a request for the correction requested by the İstanbul Metropolitan Municipality (IMM). The decision has been requested to pay is a benefit in the nature of fee for the members of Foundation worked at the time of payment, the amount Foundation adjustment by IMM and plaintiff Sağlam Satış ve Paz. A.Ş. (Malazlar A.Ş.). Breaking decision of the Supreme Court is expected members are obliged to pay should not been deducted from the basis of fee; accordingly tax audit report was issued with to evaluate the requests for correction of decision. The Court decided to apply of Supreme Court’s decision to dismiss. The the claim that it should be taken penalized income tax surcharge/penalized stump duty deducted from allowance and total notification of reasoned decision is expected. amount of TL 17.325 tax penalty notice relating to period in question to Parent Bank relying on this report. 458 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 459 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION FIVE (Continued) SECTION FIVE (Continued) EXPLANATIONS AND DISCLOSURES ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) EXPLANATIONS AND DISCLOSURES ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) III. Explanations related to the consolidated off-balance sheet items (continued) IV. Explanations and disclosures related to the consolidated income statement 4. Information related to derivative financial instruments (continued) 1. Information on interest income Beyoglu Municipality approved the reclaim of TSKB GYO for the Building II which has the location as 1486 map and 76 parcel 1.a Information on interest on loans: in Fındıklı in Beyoglu, Istanbul for the forfeiture because of zoning change. However, Municipality of Beyoglu sued because of no approbation by Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality, in order to keep rights on the subject. Current Period Prior Period TL FC TL FC The court made a decision as no solution for the relevant claim due to Beyoglu Municipality approved the reclaim. However, Interest on Loans (1) there has to be permission by Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality, and Cultural and Natural Heritage Preservation Board for Short Term Loans 207.551 109.216 340.368 55.039 the exact result. Thats why, decision was appealed by the company. The Council of State reversed the judgement based on Medium and Long Term Loans 357.131 1.525.484 330.572 1.377.651 unappropriate zoning plan changes with the decision of 28 March 2014. In addition, a new implementation development Interest on Non-performing Loans 9.663 51.003 7 29.715 plan covering the Fındıklı Building II, which has been canceled by the judicial authorities and which is owned by TSKB GYO, is being prepared by the Municipality of Beyoğlu on December 21, 2010, the 1/1000 Scaled Beyoğlu District Protected Urban Premiums received from Resource Utilization Support Fund Site Protected Development Plan. For this content, TSKB GYO’s application were made in writing to the Beyoğlu Municipality Total 574.345 1.685.703 670.947 1.462.405 on 28 October 2014 in order to plan by taking into account the 1/1000 Scale Implementation Plan which is being prepared by (1) Commission income from loans has been included to the interest on loans. the Municipality of Beyoğlu and the Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality. The court requested the Municipality to ask the plan including the immovable subject to the decision of the Council of State is still in force as a result of the decision of dismissal 1.b Information on interest received from banks: and that the plan canceled by the court in the letter sent from the Municipality is still valid answered in the form. In the case which was started to discuss again in court; an expert opinion examination was made. The Court has ruled in favor of the Current Period Prior Period Parent Bank by canceling the administrative proceeding. In the legal period, the appeal law was appealed by the Beyoğlu TL FC TL FC Municipality and was sent to the Council of State upon the decision of the Court of Appeal by the Court of Appeal. The Central Bank of Turkey (1) 7.101 10.258 Domestic Banks 26.541 25.891 60.854 16.382 A lawsuit was filed by one of the investors of TSKB GYO on the cancellation of the 5th, 7th and 9th articles decided at the Foreign Banks 1.417 6.472 1.143 499 Ordinary General Assembly meeting on 27 April 2018. Although the request for the case was demanded to stop the execution Branches and Head Office Abroad of the 5th and 7th articles, the request for interim injunction requested for the suspension of the execution was rejected and an appeal was filed by the plaintiff. The notification of the reasoned decision is expected. Total 35.059 32.363 72.255 16.881 (1) Interests given to the Turkish Lira and US Dollar portion of the CBRT Required Reserves, reserve options and unrestricted accounts have been presented under “The According to Legal Department of the Bank, it is not expected that the other lawsuits against the Bank will have a significant Central Bank of Turkey” line in the financial statements. impact on the financial statements. 1.c Information on interest received from marketable securities: 5. Custodian and intermediary services Current Period Prior Period The Group provides trading and safe keeping services in the name and account of real persons, legal entities, funds, pension TL FC TL FC funds and other entities, which are presented in the statement of contingencies and commitments. Financial Assets at Fair Value Through Profit and Loss 1.327 1.514 Financial Assets at Fair Value Through Other Comprehensive Income 370.504 71.792 296.002 62.774 Financial Assets Measured at Amortized Cost 199.903 26.895 386.565 15.635 Total 571.734 98.687 684.081 78.409 As indicated in accounting policies, the Parent Bank evaluate its Consumer Price Indexed (CPI) goverment bonds which are in securities portfolio of the Parent Bank base on reference index at date of issue and estimated CPI’s. The estimated CPI’s is updated when it seems necessary. The subjected securities is evaluated based on actual index on the annual balance sheet date as of 31 December 2019. 460 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 461 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION FIVE (Continued) SECTION FIVE (Continued) EXPLANATIONS AND DISCLOSURES ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) EXPLANATIONS AND DISCLOSURES ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) IV. Explanations and disclosures related to the consolidated income statement IV. Explanations and disclosures related to the consolidated income statement (continued) 1. Information on interest income (continued) 4. Information on net trading income (net) 1.d Information on interest income received from associates and subsidiaries: Current period Prior period Profit 3.667.342 5.948.542 Current Period Prior Period Gains on capital market operations 6.645 5.041 Interest Received from Associates and Subsidiaries 18.588 26.076 Gains on derivative financial instruments (1) 2.173.190 3.241.829 Foreign exchange gains 1.487.507 2.701.672 2. Faiz giderlerine ilişkin bilgiler Losses (-) 4.086.465 6.277.742 2.a Kullanılan kredilere verilen faizlere ilişkin bilgiler: Losses on capital market operations 2.908 2.839 Losses on derivative financial instruments (1) 2.662.268 3.858.177 Current Period Prior Period Foreign exchange losses 1.421.289 2.416.726 FC TL FC YP Banks 60.515 100.375 47.147 91.198 (1) Foreign exchange gain from derivative transactions amounting to TL 859.644 is presented in “Gains on derivative financial instruments” (31 December 2018: TL 2.112.377), foreign exchange loss from derivative transactions amounting to TL (1.238.652) is presented in “Losses on derivative financial instruments” (31 December The Central Bank of Turkey 2018: TL 2.703.018)). Domestic Banks 50.352 21.548 35.620 25.434 Foreign Banks 10.163 78.827 11.527 65.764 5. Information related to other operating income Branches and Head Office Abroad Current Period Prior Period Other Financial Institutions 2.794 505.634 2.794 439.969 Provisions Released (1) 27.199 91.162 Total (1) 63.309 606.009 49.941 531.167 Gains on Sale of Assets 1.025 73 (1) Commissions given to the Banks and Other Institutions are presented under interest expense. From Associate and Subsidiary Sales From Immovable Fixed Asset Sales 106 2.b Information on interest expenses to associates and subsidiaries: From Property Sales 837 There is no interest expense to its associates and subsidiaries (31 December 2018: None). From Other Asset Sales 82 73 Other 37.326 17.858 2.c Information on interest expense to securities issued: Total 65.550 109.093 Current Period Prior Period (1) Includes TL 90.000 provision released in the priort period. FC TL FC TL Interest on securities issued (1) 565.831 491.351 6. Provision expenses related to loans and other receivables of the Group (1) Commissions given to issuance have been included to interest expense. Current Period Prior Period Expected Credit Loss 418.518 494.269 3. Information on dividend income: 12 Months Expected Credit Loss (Stage 1) 50.994 81.575 Current Period Prior Period Significant Increase in Credit Risk (Stage 2) 143.607 131.972 Financial Assets at Fair Value Through Profit or Loss Non-performing Loans (Stage 3) 223.917 280.722 Financial Assets at Fair Value Through Other Comprehensive Marketable Securities Impairment Expenses 42.113 8.380 Income 5.707 4.612 Financial Assets at Fair Value Through Profit or Loss 34.196 Other 1.047 913 Financial Assets at Fair Value Through Other Comprehensive Income 7.917 8.380 Total 6.754 5.525 Associates, Subsidiaries, and Entities under Common Control (Joint Venture) Value Decrease Associates Subsidiaries Entities under Common Control (Joint Venture) Other (1) 30.000 Total 460.631 532.649 (1) Includes the free provision of the Parent Bank in the current period. It is included under Other Provision Expenses in the income statement 462 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 463 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION FIVE (Continued) SECTION FIVE (Continued) EXPLANATIONS AND DISCLOSURES ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) EXPLANATIONS AND DISCLOSURES ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) IV. Explanations and disclosures related to the consolidated income statement (continued) IV. Explanations and disclosures related to the consolidated income statement (continued) 7. Information related to other operating expenses 9. Information on tax provision for continued and discontinued operations (continued) Current Period Prior Period 9.c Information related to deferred tax benefit/charge on temporary differences, losses, tax deductions and Reserve for Employee Termination Benefits (1) 1.777 2.358 exceptions: Bank Social Aid Fund Deficit Provision There has no deferred tax revenues or expenses reflected in the income statement in respect of financial losses, tax Impairment Expenses of Fixed Assets deductions and exemptions (31 December 2018: None) Depreciation Expenses of Fixed Assets 17.696 5.185 Impairment Expenses of Intangible Assets 10. Explanations on net profit/loss from continued and discontinued operations: Impairment Expense of Goodwill As of 31 December 2019, the Group’s profit before tax has increased by 10,99% compared to the prior period. Amortization Expenses of Intangible Assets 1.887 1.219 Impairment on Subsidiaries Accounted for Under Equity Method 11. Information on net profit/loss Impairment on Assets for Resale Depreciation Expenses of Assets Held for Resale 11.a The nature and amount of certain income and expense items from ordinary operations is disclosed if the disclosure for nature, amount and repetition rate of such items is required for the complete understanding of the Impairment Expenses of Assets Held for Sale Bank’s performance for the period: Other Operating Expenses 42.866 43.376 Rent Expenses 1.108 3.405 The Group has generated TL 3.313.001 of interest income, TL 1.401.717 of interest expenses and TL 65.103 of net fee and Maintenance Expenses 2.178 1.454 commission income from banking operations (31 December 2018: TL 3.110.109 interest income, TL 1.381.191 interest Advertisement Expenses 1.469 970 expense, TL 51.398 net fee and commission income). Other Expenses 38.111 37.547 11.b The effect of the change in accounting estimates to the net profit/loss; including the effects to the future period, Loss on Sales of Assets if any: Other (2) 34.791 26.560 Total 99.017 78.698 There has no change in the accounting estimates and accordingly effect on the financial statement items. (31 December 2018: None). (1) Includes the distribution of profit share to the employees in accordance with TAS 19 “Employee Benefits” (2) It contains vacation liability expenses amounting TL 701. 11.c Minority share of profit and loss: 8. Information on profit/loss before tax from continued and discontinued operations before tax The current year income attributable to minority shares is TL 5.637 (31 December 2018: TL 7.493 loss). The total shareholders’ equity, including current year profit attributable to minority shares is TL 38.090 (31 December 2018: TL 38.622). As of 31 December 2019, profit before tax of the Group has increased by 2% as compared to the prior period (31 December 2018: 23,53% increase). In comparison with the prior period, the Group’s net interest income has increased by 11% (31 12. If the other items in the income statement exceed 10% of the income statement total, accounts amounting to at December 2018: 69,64% increase). least 20% of these items are shown below 9. Information on tax provision for continued and discontinued operations Current Period Prior Period Gains on Other Fees and Commissions 9.a Information on current tax charge or benefit and deferred tax charge or benefit: Gains on Brokerage Commissions 38.201 34.678 The Group’s current tax charge for the period is TL 286.837 (31 December 2018: TL 147.709). Deferred tax income is TL 89.505 Commissions from Initial Public Offering 778 1.311 (31 December 2018: TL 102.674 loss). Investment Fund Management Income 2.713 2.113 Other 12.062 4.895 9.b Information related to deferred tax benefit or charge on temporary differences: Total 53.754 42.997 Deferred tax income calculated on temporary differences is TL 89.505 (31 December 2018: TL 102.674 loss). 464 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 465 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION FIVE (Continued) SECTION FIVE (Continued) EXPLANATIONS AND DISCLOSURES ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) EXPLANATIONS AND DISCLOSURES ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) V. Explanations related to consolidated statement of changes in shareholders’ equity VI. Explanations related to consolidated statement of cash flows 1. Information related to capital 4. Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning and end of period: As of the balance sheet date, Paid in capital is TL 2.800.000, legal reserves is TL 306.633 Extraordinary legal reserves is TL Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of period: 841.395. Beginning of the Beginning of the Prior 2. Accumulated other comprehensive income or loss not reclassified through profit or loss Current Period Period Changes in Accumulated other comprehensive income or loss not reclassified through profit or loss includes valuation Cash 29 24 differences related to tangible assets, Defined Benefit Pension Plan related to Actuarial gains, related to valuation differences Cash Equivalents 1.385.796 504.224 of the shares that are being classified fair value through other comprehensive income are being valued at market value and Total 1.385.825 504.248 value increase differences in investment in associates, subsidiaries and entities under common control. 3. Accumulated other comprehensive income or loss reclassified through profit or loss Cash and cash equivalents at the end of period: Changes in Accumulated other comprehensive income or loss reclassified through profit or loss includes related to exchange End of the End of the differences of the shares that are being classified fair value through other comprehensive imcome and related to revaluation Current Period Prior Period differences of fair value through other comprehensive income. Cash 29 29 Cash Equivalents 779.773 1.385.796 VI. Explanations related to consolidated statement of cash flows Total 779.802 1.385.825 1. Explanations about other cash flows items and the effect of changes in foreign exchange rates in cash and cash equivalents 5. Amount of cash and cash equivalents restricted for the usage of the Parent Bank and the shareholders by legal limitations and other reasons In the current period, other income amounting to TL 80.871 consists of gain from sale of assets and non-interest income (31 December 2018: TL 78.663 other income consists of other income, gain from sale of assets and non-interest income.) Reserves amounting to TL 796.067 (31 December 2018: TL 730.273) in Turkish Republic Central Bank represent of Turkish Lira, foreign currency and gold reserve requirements of the Parent Bank. Other caption in changes in assets and liabilities from banking operations amounting to TL 382.647 (31 December 2018: TL 587.296) consists of derivative financial transaction losses, other operating expenses, except employee termination benefits 6. Additional information related to financial position and liquidity provision and depreciation expense and taxes paid, fees and commissions paid and foreign exchange gain and loss. 6.a Any unused financial borrowing facility which can be utilized in banking operations and unpaid capital In the current period, net increase/decrease in other assets amounting to TL 310.064 (31 December 2018: TL 392.290) commitments and any restrictions on such facilities: consists of changes in miscellaneous receivables, reserve requirement and other assets. In the current period, other liabilities amounting to TL 577.683 (31 December 2018: TL 912.283) consists of changes in funds, miscellaneous payables and funds There are not any unused financial borrowing facilities which can be utilized in banking operations and unpaid capital provided under repurchase agreements. commitments and any restrictions on such facilities. In the current period, the effect of foreign currency differences on cash and cash equivalents is TL 4.354 (31 December 2018: 6.b Apart from the cash flows needed to run ordinary operations of the Bank, total of cash flows that shows the TL 45.970). increase in the operation capacity of the Bank: 2. Information about cash flows from acquisition of associates, subsidiaries, and other investments: Under current economical conditions, the cash flows are followed daily and cash flows showing the increase in the capacity of In the current period, the Group invested TL 9.698 in tangible fixed assets and properties and invested TL 2.080 in intangible operations of the Bank are investigated. fixed assets. The Parent Bank provided cash participation to share capital of its subsidiaries amounting TL 990 in current period. In the prior period, the Group invested Tl 4.924 in tangible fixed assets and properties and invested TL 2.543 in intangible fixed assets. The Parent Bank provided cash participation to share capital of its subsidiaries amounting TL 3.000 in prior period. 3. Information about disposal of associates, subsidiaries, and other investments: In the current period, the Group has generated a cash inflow of TL 2.326 on sale of movable fixed assets and properties. There is no sale of associates and subsidiaries in the current period. In the prior period, the Group has generated cash inflows of TL 94 on sale of movable fixed assets and properties. The Group has not sold any associates and subsidiaries in the current period. 466 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 467 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION FIVE (Continued) SECTION FIVE (Continued) EXPLANATIONS AND DISCLOSURES ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) EXPLANATIONS AND DISCLOSURES ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) VII. Explanations on the risk group of the Parent Bank VII. Explanations on the risk group of the Parent Bank (Continued) 1. Information on the volume of transactions related to the Parent Bank’s own risk group, outstanding loan and 2. Information on forward and option agreements and other similar agreements made with related parties deposit transactions and income and expenses of the period Direct and Indirect 1.a Current period: Subsidiaries and Shareholders of the Other Entities Included Associates Parent Bank in the Risk Group Direct and Indirect Risk Group of Current Prior Current Prior Current Prior Subsidiaries and Shareholders of the Other Entities Included the Parent Bank Period Period Period Period Period Period Risk Group of the Parent Bank Associates Parent Bank in the Risk Group Fair Value Through Profit or Loss Cash Non-Cash Cash Non-Cash Cash Non-Cash Transactions Loans and other receivables Beginning of the Period 364.732 444.536 131.758 Balance at the beginning of the period 437.232 262 102.776 59.858 End of the Period 364.732 131.758 Balance at the end of the period 545.560 27.938 118.394 39.529 Total Profit/Loss (20.179) (356.617) (2.231) (1.906) Interest and commission income received 17.827 761 7.453 3.578 Hedging Risk Transactions Beginning of the Period 1.b Prior period: End of the Period Direct and Indirect Total Profit/Loss Subsidiaries and Shareholders of the Other Entities Included Associates Parent Bank in the Risk Group 3. Total salaries and similar benefits provided to the key management personnel Risk Group of the Parent Bank Cash Non-Cash Cash Non-Cash Cash Non-Cash Loans and other receivables Benefits provided to key management personnel in the current period amount to TL 19.837 (31 December 2018: TL 16.846). Balance at the beginning of the period 257.470 262 76.931 Balance at the end of the period 437.232 262 102.776 59.858 Interest and commission income received 25.205 871 76 5.823 1.c Information on deposit held by Parent Bank’s own risk group: The Parent Bank is not authorized to accept deposits. 468 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 469 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION FIVE (Continued) SECTION SIX EXPLANATIONS AND DISCLOSURES ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) OTHER EXPLANATIONS VIII. Information and disclosures related to the domestic, foreign offshore branches and foreign representations of I. Other explanations related to the operations of the Parent Bank the Parent Bank 1.a Brief information related to rating carried out by international rating firms: 1. Information and disclosures related to the domestic, foreign branches and foreign representations of the Group Long-term Maturity Foreign Currency (issuer) B+ Number of Long-term Maturity Foreign Currency Outlook (issuer) Stable Number Employees Short-term Maturity Foreign Currency (issuer) B Domestic branches (1) 2 375 Country of Long-term Maturity National Currency (issuer) BBIncorporation Long-term Maturity National Currency Outlook (issuer) Stable Foreign representations Short-term Maturity National Currency (issuer) B Statutory Total Asset Share Capital Support Note 4 Foreign branches Base Support Note B+ Off-shore banking region branches National Note AA (1) Consolidated subsidiaries have 9 branches and 131 personnels which are not presented in the table. National Note Outlook Stable Subordinated Debt Rating Note B 2. Explanation on opening, closing of a branch/agency of the Parent Bank or changing its organizational structure Financial Capacity Note b+ significantly: FITCH RATINGS In the current year, the Parent Bank has not opened any branch or agency and there is no significant change in the organization structure of the Parent Bank’s operating branches (31 December 2018: None). International credit rating agency Fitch Ratings confirmed the Bank’s ratings and outlook on 12 November 2019 and determined Bank’s “Financial Capacity Note’’. MOODY’S Reference Financial Rating Note caa1 Foreign Currency (issuer) Long-term Maturity B3 Outlook Negative Short-term Maturity NP Domestic Currency (issuer) Long-term Maturity B3 Outlook Negative Short-term Maturity NP Unsecured Debt-Foreign Currency (issuer) Long-term Maturity B3 Outlook Negative Foreign Currency/Domestic Currency MTN Note (P) B3 Information above represents updated information as of 18 June 2019. 470 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 471 TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION SIX (Continued) OTHER EXPLANATIONS (Continued) I. Other explanations related to the operations of the Parent Bank (continued) 1.b Informations on corporate governance rating of the Parent Bank: SAHA Kurumsal Yönetim ve Kredi Derecelendirme Hizmetleri A.Ş. (SAHA Corporate Governance and Credit Rating Services A.Ş.), a corporate governance rating institution with Capital Markets Board license, updated the Bank’s corporate governance rating of 95,58% (9,56 over 10) as of 18 October 2019. Ratings under the main topics of weighted Shareholders, Public Disclosure and Transparency, Stakeholders and Board of Directors are declared as; 9,51 (Weight: 25%), 9,70 (Weight: 25%), 9,85 (Weight: 15%), 9,37 (Weight: 35%) over 10 respectively. II. Other explanations related to the events after the reporting date The Bank issued debt instrument in abroad which have nominal value of full USD 400 Million. The redemption date of the fixed-rate,5-year bond, which was sold on 23 January 2020, was determined as 23 January 2025 and the coupon rate was 6%. SECTION SEVEN AUDITORS’ REPORT I. Explanations on the auditors’ report The consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended 31 December 2019 have been audited by Güney Bağımsız Denetim ve Serbest Muhasebeci Mali Müşavirlik AŞ (A Member firm of Ernst & Young Global Limited) and Auditors’ Report dated 3 February 2020 is presented in the introduction of this report. II. Explanations and notes prepared by independent auditors There are no other explanations and notes not expressed in sections above related with the Group’s operation. 472 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT TÜRKİYE SINAİ KALKINMA BANKASI A.Ş. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES GRI INDEX NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 (Amounts are expressed in thousands of Turkish Lira (TL) unless otherwise stated.) SECTION SIX (Continued) OTHER EXPLANATIONS (Continued) I. Other explanations related to the operations of the Parent Bank (continued) 1.b Informations on corporate governance rating of the Parent Bank: SAHA Kurumsal Yönetim ve Kredi Derecelendirme Hizmetleri A.Ş. (SAHA Corporate Governance and Credit Rating Services A.Ş.), a corporate governance rating institution with Capital Markets Board license, updated the Bank’s corporate governance rating of 95,58% (9,56 over 10) as of 18 October 2019. Ratings under the main topics of weighted Shareholders, Public Disclosure and Transparency, Stakeholders and Board of Directors are declared as; 9,51 (Weight: 25%), 9,70 (Weight: 25%), 9,85 (Weight: 15%), 9,37 (Weight: 35%) over 10 respectively. II. Other explanations related to the events after the reporting date The Bank issued debt instrument in abroad which have nominal value of full USD 400 Million. The redemption date of the fixed-rate,5-year bond, which was sold on 23 January 2020, was determined as 23 January 2025 and the coupon rate was 6%. SECTION SEVEN AUDITORS’ REPORT I. Explanations on the auditors’ report The consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended 31 December 2019 have been audited by Güney Bağımsız Denetim ve Serbest Muhasebeci Mali Müşavirlik AŞ (A Member firm of Ernst & Young Global Limited) and Auditors’ Report dated 3 February 2020 is presented in the introduction of this report. II. Explanations and notes prepared by independent auditors There are no other explanations and notes not expressed in sections above related with the Group’s operation. 472 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT GRI INDEX GRI INDEX For the Materiality Disclosures Service, GRI Services reviewed that the GRI content index is clearly presented and the references for Disclosures 102-40 to 102-49 align with appropriate sections in the body of the report. GRI STANDARD GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURES PAGE NUMBER/DIRECT REFERENCE DISCLOSURES PAGE NUMBER/DIRECT REFERENCE NUMBER NUMBER GRI 101: FOUNDATION 2016 Page: 116, 119 102-25 http://www.tskb.com.tr/i/assets/document/pdf/Disclosure%20Policy.pdf GRI 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURES 102-26 Page: 116, 119 ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE 102-27 Page: 116, 119 102-1 Türkiye Sinai Kalkınma Bankası A.Ş. 102-28 Page: 116, 119 102-2 Page: 9 102-29 Page: 116, 119 Headquarters 102-30 Page: 116, 119 102-3 Meclisi Mebusan Cad. No: 81 Fındıklı 34427 İstanbul 102-31 Page: 116, 119 102-4 Turkey 102-32 Page: 71-73 Page: 4 102-33 Page: 116, 119 102-5 102-34 Page: 116, 119 http://www.tskb.com.tr/en/investor-relations/bank-information/articles-of102-35 http://www.tskb.com.tr/i/assets/document/pdf/TSKB_Remuneration_Policy.pdf association 102-36 http://www.tskb.com.tr/i/assets/document/pdf/TSKB_Remuneration_Policy.pdf 102-6 TSKB’s business area is Turkey. 102-37 http://www.tskb.com.tr/i/assets/document/pdf/TSKB_Remuneration_Policy.pdf 102-7 Page: 4, 8 102-38 http://www.tskb.com.tr/i/assets/document/pdf/TSKB_Remuneration_Policy.pdf 102-8 Page: 66, 67, 68 102-39 http://www.tskb.com.tr/i/assets/document/pdf/TSKB_Remuneration_Policy.pdf http://www.tskb.com.tr/i/assets/document/pdf/Tskb-Sustainable-Procurements102-9 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Management-Policy.pdf 102-40 Page: 24 102-10 There were no significant changes during the reporting period. 102-41 There is no collective bargaining application in TSKB. 102-11 Page: 123-125 GRI 102: GENERAL 102-12 Page: 73-74 DISCLOSURES 2016 102-42 Page: 24-26 102-43 Page: 24-26 102-13 Page: 73-74 102-44 Page: 24-26 STRATEGY GRI 102: GENERAL REPORTING PRACTICE Page: 14-15 / Chairman’s Message DISCLOSURES 2016 102-14 Page: 16-19 / CEO’s Assessment The report is prepared on unconsolidated basis. The activities of TSKB’s 102-45 subsidiaries are not included. 102-15 Page: 73-74 102-46 Page: 1 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY 102-47 Page: 24-29 http://www.tskb.com.tr/en/investor-relations/corporate-governance/code-of102-16 102-48 There is no restated information. banking-ethics-and-policies http://www.tskb.com.tr/en/investor-relations/corporate-governance/code-ofThere are no significant changes from previous reporting periods in the list of 102-17 102-49 banking-ethics-and-policies material topics and topic boundaries. GOVERNANCE 102-50 01.01.2019-31.12.2019 102-18 Page: 106-111 102-51 2018 102-19 Page: 71-72 102-52 Annual 102-20 Page: 71-72 Ms. Özen Çaylı 102-53 Tel: +90 212 334 52 49 102-21 Page: 71-72 Özen Çaylı <HALILOGLUO@tskb.com.tr> Page: 106-111 102-54 This report is prepared in accordance with GRI Standards-Core option. http://www.tskb.com.tr/en/investor-relations/bank-information/board-of102-22 directors-senior-management 102-55 Page: 473 102-56 Page: 132-139 http://www.tskb.com.tr/en/investor-relations/bank-information/committees 102-23 The Chairman of the Board of Directors has no executive duty. Regarding the minimum qualities to be sought in appointments to Board 102-24 Member, the Bank acts in accordance with the provisions of Banking legislation, Turkish Commerce Code and the regulations of Capital Markets Board. 474 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 475 GRI INDEX GRI STANDARD GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURES PAGE NUMBER/DIRECT REFERENCE DISCLOSURES PAGE NUMBER/DIRECT REFERENCE NUMBER NUMBER GRI 200: ECONOMIC STANDARD SERIES PROCUREMENT PRACTICES 103-1 Page: 25-27 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE GRI 103: http://www.tskb.com.tr/i/assets/document/pdf/Tskb-Sustainable-Procurements103-1 Page: 25-27 103-2 MANAGEMENT Management-Policy.pdf GRI 103: Page: 14-15 / Chairman’s Message APPROACH 2016 http://www.tskb.com.tr/i/assets/document/pdf/Tskb-Sustainable-Procurements103-2 103-3 MANAGEMENT Page: 16-19 / CEO’s Assessment Management-Policy.pdf APPROACH 2016 Page: 14-15 / Chairman’s Message 103-3 GRI 204: Page: 16-19 / CEO’s Assessment http://www.tskb.com.tr/i/assets/document/pdf/Tskb-Sustainable-ProcurementsPROCUREMENT 204-1 Management-Policy.pdf 201-1 Page: 6-8 PRACTICES 2016 GRI 201: 201-2 Page: 77-82 ANTI-CORRUPTION ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 201-3 Page: 185-186 103-1 Page: 25-27 2016 There is no financial assistance received from government during the reporting GRI 103: http://www.tskb.com.tr/i/assets/document/pdf/TSKB_anti_bribery_and_anti_ 201-4 103-2 period. MANAGEMENT corruption_policy.pdf MARKET PRESENCE APPROACH 2016 http://www.tskb.com.tr/i/assets/document/pdf/TSKB_anti_bribery_and_anti_ 103-3 103-1 Page: 25-27 corruption_policy.pdf GRI 103: Page: 14-15 / Chairman’s Message http://www.tskb.com.tr/i/assets/document/pdf/TSKB_anti_bribery_and_anti_ 103-2 corruption_policy.pdf MANAGEMENT Page: 16-19 / CEO’s Assessment GRI 205: ANTI205-1 APPROACH 2016 Page: 14-15 / Chairman’s Message CORRUPTION 2016 103-3 Page: 123-125 Page: 16-19 / CEO’s Assessment 205-3 There are no confirmed incidents of corruption during the reporting period. In TSKB, the standard entry level wage of all employees is above the local GRI 202: MARKET 202-1 ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR minimum wage. PRESENCE 2016 103-1 Page: 25-27 202-2 All members of TSKB senior management are Turkish Republic citizens. INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS GRI 103: http://www.tskb.com.tr/i/assets/document/pdf/TBB_Principles_of_Banking_ 103-2 MANAGEMENT Ethics(1).pdf 103-1 Page: 25-27 APPROACH 2016 http://www.tskb.com.tr/i/assets/document/pdf/TBB_Principles_of_Banking_ GRI 103: Page: 14-15 / Chairman’s Message 103-3 103-2 Ethics(1).pdf MANAGEMENT Page: 16-19 / CEO’s Assessment APPROACH 2016 GRI 206: ANTIPage: 14-15 / Chairman’s Message There are no legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and 103-3 COMPETITIVE 206-1 Page: 16-19 / CEO’s Assessment monopoly practices during the reporting period. BEHAVIOR 2016 GRI 203: INDIRECT Page: 14-15 / Chairman’s Message 203-1 GRI 300: ENVIRONMENTAL STANDARD SERIES ECONOMIC Page: 16-19 / CEO’s Assessment IMPACTS 2016 203-2 Page: 6-7 ENERGY 103-1 Page: 25-27 GRI 103: http://www.tskb.com.tr/i/assets/document/pdf/TSKB-ENVIRONMENTAL-AND103-2 MANAGEMENT SOCIAL-IMPACT-POLICY.pdf APPROACH 2016 http://www.tskb.com.tr/i/assets/document/pdf/TSKB-ENVIRONMENTAL-AND103-3 SOCIAL-IMPACT-POLICY.pdf 302-1 Page: 78-79 GRI 302: ENERGY 302-2 Page: 78-79 2016 302-3 Page: 78-79 302-4 Page: 78-79 476 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 477 GRI INDEX GRI STANDARD GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURES PAGE NUMBER/DIRECT REFERENCE DISCLOSURES PAGE NUMBER/DIRECT REFERENCE NUMBER NUMBER WATER The disclosure is omitted because it is not directly related with TSKB’s business 306-1 103-1 Page: 25-27 activities and operations. Page: 14-15 / Chairman’s Message 306-2 Page: 78-79 Page: 16-19 / CEO’s Assessment GRI 306: The disclosure is omitted because it is not directly related with TSKB’s business 306-3 103-2 EFFLUENTS AND activities and operations. GRI 103: http://www.tskb.com.tr/i/assets/document/pdf/TSKB-ENVIRONMENTAL-ANDWASTE 2016 The disclosure is omitted because it is not directly related with TSKB’s business MANAGEMENT SOCIAL-IMPACT-POLICY.pdf 306-4 activities and operations. APPROACH 2016 Page: 14-15 / Chairman’s Message The disclosure is omitted because it is not directly related with TSKB’s business Page: 16-19 / CEO’s Assessment 306-5 activities and operations. 103-3 http://www.tskb.com.tr/i/assets/document/pdf/TSKB-ENVIRONMENTAL-ANDENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE SOCIAL-IMPACT-POLICY.pdf 103-1 Page: 25-27 303-1 Page: 78-79 Page: 14-15 / Chairman’s Message GRI 303: WATER Page: 16-19 / CEO’s Assessment 303-2 There are no water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. 2016 103-2 303-3 Page: 78-79 GRI 103: http://www.tskb.com.tr/i/assets/document/pdf/TSKB-ENVIRONMENTAL-ANDEMISSIONS MANAGEMENT SOCIAL-IMPACT-POLICY.pdf 103-1 Page: 25-27 APPROACH 2016 Page: 14-15 / Chairman’s Message Page: 14-15 / Chairman’s Message Page: 16-19 / CEO’s Assessment Page: 16-19 / CEO’s Assessment 103-3 103-2 http://www.tskb.com.tr/i/assets/document/pdf/TSKB-ENVIRONMENTAL-ANDGRI 103: http://www.tskb.com.tr/i/assets/document/pdf/TSKB-ENVIRONMENTAL-ANDSOCIAL-IMPACT-POLICY.pdf MANAGEMENT SOCIAL-IMPACT-POLICY.pdf GRI 307: APPROACH 2016 Page: 14-15 / Chairman’s Message ENVIRONMENTAL 307-1 There are no significant fines or sanctions in the reporting period. Page: 16-19 / CEO’s Assessment COMPLIANCE 103-3 2016 http://www.tskb.com.tr/i/assets/document/pdf/TSKB-ENVIRONMENTAL-ANDSUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT SOCIAL-IMPACT-POLICY.pdf 103-1 Page: 25-27 305-1 Page: 78-79 http://www.tskb.com.tr/i/assets/document/pdf/Tskb-Sustainable-Procurements305-2 Page: 78-79 Management-Policy.pdf GRI 305: 305-3 Page: 78-79 EMISSIONS 2016 GRI 103: TSKB works closely with its suppliers in order to manage the environmental 305-4 Page: 78-79 103-2 MANAGEMENT and social impact of its supply chain operations. Suppliers are supported in 305-5 Page: 78-79 APPROACH 2016 their efforts to improve their own environmental and social sustainability performance. Such matters will be dealt with as called for in TSKB’s Sustainable EFFLUENTS AND WASTE Procurements Management Policy. 103-1 Page: 25-27 http://www.tskb.com.tr/i/assets/document/pdf/Tskb-Sustainable-Procurements103-3 Page: 14-15 / Chairman’s Message Management-Policy.pdf Page: 16-19 / CEO’s Assessment GRI 308: SUPPLIER Although the suppliers are expected to pay attention to their environmental 103-2 ENVIRONMENTAL 308-1 GRI 103: impact, there are no suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria. http://www.tskb.com.tr/i/assets/document/pdf/TSKB-ENVIRONMENTAL-ANDASSESSMENT 2016 MANAGEMENT SOCIAL-IMPACT-POLICY.pdf APPROACH 2016 Page: 14-15 / Chairman’s Message Page: 16-19 / CEO’s Assessment 103-3 http://www.tskb.com.tr/i/assets/document/pdf/TSKB-ENVIRONMENTAL-ANDSOCIAL-IMPACT-POLICY.pdf 478 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 479 GRI INDEX GRI STANDARD GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURES PAGE NUMBER/DIRECT REFERENCE DISCLOSURES PAGE NUMBER/DIRECT REFERENCE NUMBER NUMBER GRI 400: SOCIAL STANDARD SERIES GRI 405: DIVERSITY 405-1 Page: 65-68 EMPLOYMENT AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY 405-2 There is no gender-based wage discrimination in TSKB. GRI 103: 103-1 Page: 25-27 2016 MANAGEMENT 103-2 Page: 61-68 NON-DISCRIMINATION APPROACH 2016 103-3 Page: 61-68 103-1 Page: 25-27 GRI 401: Total number of new employees hired in 2019 is 47. http://www.tskb.com.tr/i/assets/document/pdf/TBB_Principles_of_Banking_ 401-1 103-2 EMPLOYMENT Page: 64 Ethics(1).pdf 2016 401-2 All TSKB employees are working on full-time basis. GRI 103: Page: 61-68 MANAGEMENT LABOR/MANAGEMENT RELATIONS APPROACH 2016 http://www.tskb.com.tr/en/sustainable-banking/tskb-surdurulebilirlik-yonetimGRI 103: 103-1 Page: 25-27 103-3 organizasyonu/our-sustainability-policy MANAGEMENT 103-2 Page: 61-68 APPROACH 2016 103-3 Page: 61-68 http://www.tskb.com.tr/i/assets/document/pdf/TSKB-Human-Rights-Policy.pdf GRI 402: LABOR/ GRI 406: NONTSKB is fully compliant with current laws and regulations about this subject in DISCRIMINATION 406-1 There are no incidents of discrimination during the reporting period. MANAGEMENT 402-1 Turkey. 2016 RELATIONS 2016 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING 103-1 Page: 25-27 GRI 103: 103-1 Page: 25-27 GRI 103: http://www.tskb.com.tr/i/assets/document/pdf/Tskb-Occupational-Health-andMANAGEMENT 103-2 Page: 61-68 103-2 APPROACH 2016 MANAGEMENT Safety-Policy.pdf 103-3 Page: 61-68 APPROACH 2016 http://www.tskb.com.tr/i/assets/document/pdf/Tskb-Occupational-Health-and103-3 GRI 407: FREEDOM Safety-Policy.pdf TSKB respects the right of collective bargaining. During the reporting period, OF ASSOCIATION 407-1 TSKB had no dealings with any supplier who, to the Bank’s knowledge, was in GRI 403: There are no injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and workAND COLLECTIVE 403-2 violation of their employees’ union rights. OCCUPATIONAL related fatalities during the reporting period. BARGAINING 2016 HEALTH AND As per the nature of its activities, TSKB’s employees are not subject to high risk of CHILD LABOR SAFETY 2016 403-3 injury or occupational diseases. 103-1 Page: 25-27 GRI 103: TRAINING AND EDUCATION MANAGEMENT 103-2 http://www.tskb.com.tr/i/assets/document/pdf/TSKB-Human-Rights-Policy.pdf 103-1 Page: 25-27 APPROACH 2016 103-3 http://www.tskb.com.tr/i/assets/document/pdf/TSKB-Human-Rights-Policy.pdf GRI 103: MANAGEMENT 103-2 Page: 61-68 GRI 408: CHILD TSKB does not employ child labor in any way. TSKB expects all of its suppliers APPROACH 2016 408-1 103-3 Page: 61-68 LABOR 2016 comply with age restrictions mentioned on related laws and regulations. GRI 404: TRAINING 404-1 Page: 65-68 FORCED OR COMPULSORY LABOR AND EDUCATION 103-1 Page: 25-27 404-2 Page: 65-68 GRI 103: 2016 MANAGEMENT 103-2 http://www.tskb.com.tr/i/assets/document/pdf/TSKB-Human-Rights-Policy.pdf DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY APPROACH 2016 103-3 http://www.tskb.com.tr/i/assets/document/pdf/TSKB-Human-Rights-Policy.pdf 103-1 Page: 25-27 GRI 409: FORCED There are no activities and operations at TSKB with significant risk for incidents 103-2 Page: 61-68 OR COMPULSORY 409-1 of forced or compulsory labor. TSKB expects all of its suppliers do not employ GRI 103: Page: 61-68 LABOR 2016 forced or compulsory labor in any case. MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016 http://www.tskb.com.tr/en/sustainable-banking/tskb-surdurulebilirlik-yonetim103-3 organizasyonu/our-sustainability-policy http://www.tskb.com.tr/i/assets/document/pdf/TSKB-Human-Rights-Policy.pdf 480 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 481 DIRECTORY GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURES PAGE NUMBER/DIRECT REFERENCE NUMBER HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT GRI 103: 103-1 Page: 25-27 MANAGEMENT 103-2 http://www.tskb.com.tr/i/assets/document/pdf/TSKB-Human-Rights-Policy.pdf APPROACH 2016 103-3 http://www.tskb.com.tr/i/assets/document/pdf/TSKB-Human-Rights-Policy.pdf GRI 412: HUMAN RIGHTS 412-1 None. ASSESSMENT 2016 CUSTOMER PRIVACY 103-1 Page: 25-27 GRI 103: http://www.tskb.com.tr/i/assets/document/pdf/TBB_Principles_of_Banking_ 103-2 MANAGEMENT Ethics(1).pdf APPROACH 2016 http://www.tskb.com.tr/i/assets/document/pdf/TBB_Principles_of_Banking_ 103-3 Ethics(1).pdf GRI 418: There are no complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses of CUSTOMER 418-1 customer data. PRIVACY 2016 FINANCIAL SECTOR SUPPLEMENT PRODUCT PORTFOLIO 103-1 Page: 25-27 GRI 103: Page: 14-15 / Chairman’s Message 103-2 MANAGEMENT Page: 16-19 / CEO’s Assessment APPROACH 2016 Page: 14-15 / Chairman’s Message 103-3 Page: 16-19 / CEO’s Assessment FS6 Page: 39-43, 48-52 FINANCIAL SECTOR FS7 Page: 39-43, 48-52 SUPPLEMENT FS8 Page: 39-43, 48-52 ACTIVE OWNERSHIP 103-1 Page: 25-27 GRI 103: Page: 14-15 / Chairman’s Message 103-2 MANAGEMENT Page: 16-19 / CEO’s Assessment APPROACH 2016 Page: 14-15 / Chairman’s Message 103-3 Page: 16-19 / CEO’s Assessment FINANCIAL SECTOR FS10 Page: 39-43, 48-52 SUPPLEMENT FS11 Page: 39-43, 48-52 482 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT TSKB HEADQUARTERS Meclisi Mebusan Cad. No: 81 Fındıklı 34427 İstanbul, TURKEY Phone: (90 212) 334 50 50 Fax: (90 212) 334 52 34 Ankara Branch Aziziye Mahallesi, Piyade Sok., B Blok, No: 3/7, Çankaya, Ankara, TURKEY Phone: (90 312) 441 75 22 Fax: (90 312) 441 75 66 Financial Institutions and Investor Relations Phone: (90 212) 334 51 94 Web: www.tskb.com.tr BIST Code: TSKB SWIFT Code: TSKBTRIS EFT Code: 0014 Trade Registry Number: 42527 Integrated reporting consultancy, Integrated reporting strategic consultancy content development, Turkish editing and design. and stakeholder analysis T: +90 212 227 0436 www.tayburnkurumsal.com T: +90 212 334 5460 Brands & Reputations. www.escarus.com 484 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT www.tskb.com
