Communication on Progress on implementation of the principles of the UN Global Compact March 2020 Arcadis has been a member of the UN Global Compact (UNGC) since 2009 and is committed to its objectives and to the ten universal principles regarding human rights, labor standards, environmental stewardship, and anticorruption. Our values, mission, and strategy are fully aligned with the UNGC principles, and our signing of these principles reflects our ambition to be a sustainability leader. The way in which we support and enact these principles are included in our Annual Integrated Report 2019. This report contains an explicit statement of continued commitment to the UN Global Compact by Chief Executive Officer Peter Oosterveer on behalf of the Executive Board (in the message from the CEO on page 8) and provides further information on progress made in implementing the principles. The Annual Integrated Report is submitted every year to the UN Global Compact Office and forms the substance of our annual Communication on Progress (CoP). We are committed to making the UNGC and its principles part of the day-to-day operations of our company. Our continued commitment to the UN Global Compact is also underlined, since 2016, by the inclusion of the adherence to the UN Global Compact requirements into the Arcadis General Business Principles as well as the issuance in that same year of the Arcadis Human Rights and Labor Rights Policy which applies to the whole of Arcadis and extends to the projects which we manage on behalf of our clients. The policy addresses prohibitions on the use of forced labor or underage workers, as well as our proactive and preventive risk and behaviorbased approach to health & safety. In 2019 Arcadis updated its sustainability strategy, and as a component of that new strategy, it has voiced a commitment to ensure that all its employees are active in some form of community engagement by 2030. In keeping with this ambition and in cooperation with two of its larger shareholders the Lovinklaan Foundation and the KNHM Foundation, Arcadis has launched the Local Sparks program. Arcadis’ initial commitment to Local Sparks stands for three years after which the program will be evaluated. In October our CEO Peter Oosterveer had the honor to become a member of the Executive Committee of the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD), effective the 1st of January 2020. At Arcadis, we deliver thousands of projects each year that improve quality of life for people around the world. But no company, working in isolation, can solve the world’s most pressing challenges like climate change and resource scarcity. Our WBCSD membership is an important channel through which we amplify our efforts, by collaborating with other leading companies to foster a more sustainable world. We also continued our global partnership with UN-Habitat, the United Nations agency for human settlements, aimed at a common goal: to improve the quality of life in rapidly growing cities. With this partnership, known as the Shelter program, we address the challenge of sustainable living conditions in rapidly growing urban areas. The United Nations has adopted 17 new Sustainable Development Goals. One is focused on the development of sustainable cities and communities, and Arcadis has committed to this goal with the Shelter program. Arcadis N.V., Gustav Mahlerplein 97-103, 1082 MS Amsterdam T +31 (0)20 2011 011 www.arcadis.com Arcadis N.V. Registered Office: Amsterdam Registered Number: 09051284 2019 SUMMARY ARCADIS COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS PRINCIPLE DESCRIPTION ARCADIS ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 HUMAN RIGHTS Chapter Stakeholder Dialogue, Materiality Matrix (p. 38); Support and respect the Chapter People & Culture (p.56); Arcadis General Principle 1 protection of internationally Business Principles1; Human Rights and Labor Rights proclaimed human rights Policy2 Chapter Stakeholder Dialogue, Materiality Matrix (p. 38); Exclusion of human rights Chapter People & Culture (p.56); Arcadis General Principle 2 abuses Business Principles1; Human Rights and Labor Rights Policy2 LABOR Uphold the freedom of association and the effective Chapter People & Culture (p.56); Human Rights and Principle 3 recognition of the right to Labor Rights Policy2 collective bargaining The elimination of all forms of Chapter People & Culture (p.56); Human Rights and Principle 4 forced and compulsory labor Labor Rights Policy2 The effective abolition of child Chapter People & Culture (p.56); Human Rights and Principle 5 labor Labor Rights Policy2 The elimination of discrimination Chapter People & Culture (p.56); Arcadis General Principle 6 in respect of employment and Business Principles1; Human Rights and Labor Rights occupation Policy2 ENVIRONMENT Support a precautionary Our Position in the Industry Value Chain (p.15); Chapter Principle 7 approach to environmental Innovation & Growth (p. 63) challenges Undertake initiatives to promote Our Position in the Industry Value Chain (p.15); Chapter Principle 8 greater environmental Supporting the Sustainable Development Goals (p.40responsibility 42); Chapter Innovation & Growth (p.63) Encourage the development and Our position in the value chain (p.15); Chapter Principle 9 diffusion of environmentally Supporting the Sustainable Development Goals (p.40friendly technologies 42); Chapter Innovation & Growth (p.63) ANTICORRUPTION Work against corruption in all its Chapter People & Culture (p.53); Chapter Enterprise Principle 10 forms, including extortion and Risk Management (p.159); Arcadis General Business bribery Principles1; Human Rights and Labor Rights Policy2 1 https://www.arcadis.com/media/2/D/0/%7B2D0B1B00-9EFE-4278-B813-A4CA9B7E1112%7D10.04.18ArcadisGeneralBusinessPrinciples.pdf 2 https://www.arcadis.com/media/F/C/5/%7BFC503B2E-8C86-42C5-974C-00A5EC0971AD%7DArcadis-Humanand-Labor-Rights-Policy-22Dec2016.pdf 2 of 2
