2019 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Resurs Holding in brief ”With the customer journey front and centre, Resurs Holding (Resurs), which operates through the subsidiaries Resurs Bank and Solid Försäkring, is the leader in retail finance in the Nordic region, offering payment extensive retail experience and a robust and solutions, consumer loans and niche insurance products. At the end of the fourth innovative business model, we feel well positioned quarter of 2019, the Group had 750 employees and a loan portfolio of SEK 31.3 billion. Resurs is listed on Nasdaq Stockholm. to seize all of the opportunities of the future while maintaining healthy profits and growth.” Kenneth Nilsson, CEO Resurs Holding AB MORE THAN 6 MILLION CUSTOMERS IN OUR DATABASE Resurs helps companies and private individuals with lending, saving and payments. With more than 40 years of experience in the retail sector, Resurs makes shopping online and in stores quick, easy and >6 million customers secure. Resurs focuses on the customer experience and makes good things happen and the hard feel easier. The Group has thus built a 750 customer base of slightly more than 6 million private customers in Sweden, Norway, Denmark and Finland. LISTED ON NASDAQ STOCKHOLM LARGE CAP Resurs has been listed on NASDAQ Stockholm Large Cap since April employees 2016. Resurs Bank was granted a banking licence in 2001 and is CONTENTS RESURS HOLDING IN BRIEF RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 26 supervised by the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority. CONTENTS EMPLOYEES, DIVERSITY SEK 31,3 AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY 28 RESURS HOLDING IN BRIEF 3 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND THE ENVIRONMENT 32 SIGNIFICANT EVENTS IN 2019 4 RESPONSIBLE CREDIT LENDING 34 THE YEAR IN FIGURES 6 CUSTOMER PRIVACY 36 CHAIRMAN STATEMENT 7 ANTI-CORRUPTION 37 billion in lending CEO AND GROUP MANAGEMENT STATEMENT 8 INVESTMENT CASE 11 COMPETITIVE LANDSCAPE AND TRENDS 12 THE SHARE 38 STAKEHOLDERS 14 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT 42 RESURS MARKET 16 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 51 PAYMENT SOLUTIONS CONSUMER LOANS INSURANCE STRATEGY 18 BOARD OF DIRECTORS 56 The Payment Solutions segment is Consumers in the Consumer Loans Non-life insurance is offered within the BUSINESS MODEL 22 GROUP MANAGEMENT 57 comprised of the retail finance, credit segment are offered unsecured loans. Insurance segment under the Solid cards and factoring areas. Within retail A consumer loan is normally used to Försäkring brand. The focus is on niche THREE BUSINESS SEGMENTS 23 STATEMENTS AND NOTES 58 finance, Resurs is the leading partner finance larger purchases. coverage, with the Nordic region as RESURS’ FINANCIAL TARGETS AND OUTCOMES 24 AUDITOR’S REPORT 116 for sales-driving finance, payment and Consumer Loans also helps consumers the main market. loyalty solutions in the Nordic region. to consolidate their loans with other Insurance products are divided into Credit cards includes the Resurs credbanks, in order to reduce their monthly four business lines: Travel, Security, it cards (with Supreme Card being the payments or interest expense. Resurs Roadside assistance/extended car foremost) as well as cards that enable currently holds SEK 19.9 billion (17.4) in warranties (Motor) and Product insurretail finance partners to promote their outstanding consumer loans. ance. The company partners with leadown brands. Lending amounted to SEK ing retail chains in various sectors, and 11.4 billion (10.5) at the end of 2019. has about 2.3 million customers across the Nordic region. Our consolidated financial statements were prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), as adopted by the EU. Resurs also applies the relevant sections of the Swedish Annual Accounts Act for Credit Institutions and Securities Companies, the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority’s regulations and general guidelines on Annual Reports in Credit Institutions and Securities Companies (FFFS 2008:25 and all applicable amendments), and the Swedish Financial Reporting Board’s recommendation RFR 1, Supplementary Accounting Rules for Groups. The Swedish Anti-corruption Institute’s (IMM) Code on Code on Gifts, Rewards and other Benefits. Solid: IFRS and Solvency II standards, ISO. 2 RESURS HOLDING GRI 102-2, 102-4, 102-5, 102-7 RESURS HOLDING 3 Significant events in 2019 Launch of credit Our best full-year earnings ever 2020 Career Company of the Year engine in Denmark Continued profitable growth in all segments. Resurs again Resurs was named Career Company of the Year by Karrärföretagen, proves the strength of its business model. it is a distinction for companies that offer young talent opportunities The credit engine, which simplifies for professional growth. Every year Career Companies presents a and automates the application list of 100 employers, with the aim of guiding students and young process, was launched in Denmark professionals to a good start to their careers and opportunities for and is now available in all four professional growth. Nordic countries. The share of automated replies from the credit engine was near 100 31.3 16,3 per cent, and one of its new Lending at an all-time high Stronger new capital ratio target Gjeldsregistret features is e-signatures Lending was at SEK 31.3 billion and increased In December the Board decided to raise our total capital ratio A new law was passed and the for co-applicants. 12 per cent during the year. In other words, target to 15 per cent. Thanks to our capital position we are well Norwegian Gjeldsregisteret billion Resurs manages an increasingly large loan portfolio every year. The loan portfolio is procent prepared to continue to deliver both growth and profitability based on responsible credit lending and effective cost control. debt information company was integrated into the Norwegian always countered by strong and highly market during the spring. diversified deposits. SIGNIFICANT EVENTS IN 2019 On the Allbright Continuing to gain Foundation’s green list A new push function market share For the second year in a row Resurs was given a spot on Allbright’s green list, which in Resurs Checkout Resurs’s position in the Nordic is a ranking of Swedish listed companies consumer credit market remains Resurs debuted new push feature in with even gender distribution in company stable. Resurs’s offering stands out Resurs Checkout, which responds to management. as a variation on standardised, new consumption trends, makes the customer-centric solutions that customer journey easier and drives focuses on driving customer loyalty conversion. as well as sales. Newcomer of the Year according to Universum’s ranking of Sweden’s most The Merchant attractive employers Portal Nominated for Newcomer of the Year The launchof a new and upgraded in the “Employer Branding” category by version of Resurs’s partner portal. Universum Awards. TECHELLA Resurs was the main partner Mio and Bauhaus Resurs Studio – HETCH of A Sustainable Tomorrow Resurs and Solid Försäkring joined chose Resurs Resurs joined HETCH – Helsingborg’s new tech Techella, a regional network that A conference for companies and organisations hub for accelerated innovation and growth. encourages female talent in IT and Mio and Bauhaus expanded their interested in forging partnerships and networks technology. partnership with Resurs. that accelerate sustainability in the region. 4 RESURS HOLDING GRI 102-10 GRI 102-10 RESURS HOLDING 5 The year in figures CHAIRMAN STATEMENT ”Strong growth confirms the strength of our business model once again” In 2019 Resurs achieved its best full-year is today. Thanks to sound, responsible earnings in the Group’s history, a result that credit lending and a well-tested business was reflected in strong organic growth in model, we are able to act quickly to balance lending and 32.7 per cent return on equity and compensate the business segments (RoTE). This was a strong performance that for changing conditions in the four Nordic all of us at Resurs are proud to be part of! markets. If one area is slowing down, we Annual lending growth 2019 Net profit for the year after tax Dividend 2019 It is also a result that will please our sharecan quickly change course and accelerate holders, with a dividend of SEK 3.90 per another one. SEK +12% 1,216 3.90 share on an annual basis, an increase of I also want to highlight Resurs’s continued CHAIRMAN STATEMENT approximately 8 per cent compared with targeted sustainability agenda in the form THE YEAR IN FIGURES 2019. We are also ensuring that our finanof responsible credit lending, customer MILLION PER SHARE cial success will benefit our shareholders privacy and combating all forms of corfaster by paying semi-annual dividends. ruption. Resurs is associated with strong I want to begin by thanking you for both social commitment with a pronounced the new and the longstanding trust you ambition to promote both an inclusive have given us at Resurs through the opporsociety and a diverse equal opportunity tunity to manage your capital. “New” since workplace. The Board and management Return on equity 2019 (RoTE) * Total capital ratio Credit loss ratio we gained about 7,000 new shareholders in view dedicated involvement with these the last financial year, so that the entire issues as needed not just to deserve the 32.7% 16.3% 2.3% shareholder base is now close to 26,000. market’s trust, but to continue creating In December the Board decided to raise business and customer value. our total capital ratio target to 15 per cent. Today Resurs stands strong because it Thanks to our capital position we are well is a well-run, stable, profitable, sustainprepared to continue to deliver both growth able and innovative company. We are true and profitability based on responsible credit to our business model, and our exciting lending and effective cost control. journey now continues into a new decade Over the many years that I’ve followed with value creation for our retail finance Number of employees Percentage women total Senior executives, percentage women and been closely involved with Resurs, I’ve partners and customers foremost. As I see 750 55% 57% always been impressed by the company’s it, our best years are still ahead of us. ability to avoid resting on its laurels, always growing and evolving with innovative new Helsingborg, March 2020 offerings and services instead. In other words, the entrepreneurial spirit that the business has exhibited for over 40 years is Martin Bengtsson still very alive, making Resurs the company it Chairman of the Board, Resurs Holding *Adjusted for the Common Equity Tier 1 ratio according to the Board’s target and dividends deducted from the capital base for the current year. 6 RESURS HOLDING GRI 102-14 RESURS HOLDING 7 ERIK FRICK CEO AND GROUP MANAGEMENT STATEMENT CHRISTINA KASSBERG Chief Operating Officer (COO) EVA BRIKE Interim Chief Financial Officer (CFO) Chief Human Resources Officer (CHRO) 2019 was yet another year of profitable The combination of our business model, Resurs’s success depends entirely on “Yet another successful year of growth in all of our segments, and we delivin-depth knowledge of the drivers of retail our employees. To us it is a given to offer ered our best ever full-year earnings. Excustomer loyalty and the ability to take a healthy and inclusive workplace in cluding the extra credit provision for credit advantage of the possibilities offered by every way, where employees enjoy their digitisation puts us in a strong position. stable and profitable growth” losses in our Norwegian market, operating jobs and feel that they have good prosprofit increased by 7 per cent. Lending at We enabled our retail finance partners to pects for growing in their job duties. We year-end amounted to SEK 31.3 billion, a 12 offer their customers the ability to use are pleased that our equal opportunity per cent increase compared with 2018. Our their mobile phones as a digital platform organisation is receiving public attention, strong financial performance will also benefor all purchases, whether in stores or and with our high internal mobility rate fit our shareholders through a higher divionline, by using Resurs Checkout which of 28 per cent, which is a positive effect dend of 8 per cent compared with 2018. has built-in push functionality. of employees being encouraged to actively 2019 saw healthy growth in lending as well renewed trust as a strategic partner One important event in 2019 was During the year, Resurs Bank received apply for new roles within the Group. as continued profitable growth. Overall we providing payment solutions to companies that the new payment services directive a BBB(NCR) credit rating, which gives During the year, several of our employpresented our best ever full-year earnings, including Mio and Bauhaus. PSD2 came into full effect. This means us good prospects for obtaining financing ees participated in the Group’s Resurs which led to a higher dividend. The Insurance business segment continthat the financial sector is changing the at advantageous terms. During the period, Women Potential Program, a mentorship Our success is based on the interplay ued to develop its insurance products and structure of banking data, and how that Resurs Bank and the consolidated situaprogramme designed to support and among several factors. First and foremost delivered stable growth in both premium data can be moved easily between banks tion changed the method for calculating advance young women in the Group. Our our people stand behind the year’s strong income and earnings as a result. The Conat the customer’s request. For example, operational risk from the basic indicator sustainable leadership efforts continued earnings, and I want to give all of Resurs’s sumer Loans business segment also reResurs is able to obtain a customer’s method to the standardised method, which through our Group-wide Let’s GROW and employees my warmest thanks for your ported healthy lending growth for the year. statement from the bank the customer strengthened the capital ratio in the third Let’s CHANGE programmes. In addition, hard, goal-oriented work during the year. The Norwegian market remains a chalspecifies. This elevates the importance quarter of 2019 by 0.5 of a percentage we held numerous internal training sessions Another important factor is responsible lenge since the effect of the new statutory of consumer-centric products that create point. In December, Resurs Holding AB isfor employees that focused on topics inbusiness, a fundamental concern that requirements and the implementation of real added value and can create larger sued Additional Tier 1 Capital of a nominal cluding constructive feedback culture. governs our decisions. This means that the Gjeldsregisteret debt information customer flows and increase involvement SEK 300 million, which strengthened the Resurs has a strong sense of social responsible credit lending always takes service have altered market conditions. with existing customers. For Resurs, this total capital ratio by approximately 1.0 commitment, which we exhibit through precedence over volume, and that we To manage elevated credit risk in the Normeans completely new business opporpercentage point. In December we decided measures including allowing employees to always focus on effective cost control as wegian market, an extra credit provision tunities that we intend to pursue. to raise our total capital ratio target from devote some of their paid working hours well as on ensuring that all parts of the of SEK 35 million was made to respond to CEO AND GROUP MANAGEMENT STATEMENT 14 per cent to 15 per cent. We ended We are continually working on our to volunteer work. business conduct themselves properly in an expected temporary increase in credit performance, while our C/I ratio is above 2019 with a strong capital position, which terms of business ethics. All of this is neclosses. The fact that Resurs’s credit losses target. Our ambition is to always continue means that we are well prepared to conessary to earn the trust of customers and have never exceeded 3 per cent historically, our streamlining efforts and to gradually tinue to deliver both growth and profitothers. Our robust business model also regardless of economic cycles, shows that digitise more and more of our operation. ability based on responsible credit lending plays a critical role. This business model Resurs’s conservative credit model has and effective cost control. CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE gives us the endurance and strength to passed the test of time, and I am sure that balance our business segments according it will be just as effective for managing the to shifting market conditions in the four changes that the Norwegian market is Nordic markets. currently undergoing. We now see opportunities to design a profitable offering that A CUSTOMER JOURNEY THAT BUILDS both meets the new rules of play and deFrom the left: Sebastian Green, Erik Frick, Eva Brike, Kenneth Nilsson, ENDURING CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIPS livers customer and business value as the Anna Nauclèr, Christina Kassberg, Anette Konar Riple. Payment Solutions, the core of our business Norwegian market stabilises. model, reported sustained strong growth in all Nordic markets. Our extensive expeSTRATEGIC SUSTAINABILITY EFFORTS A Sustainable Tomorrow in Helsingborg, rience of retail together with smart digital BASED ON THE GLOBAL COMPACT and it was one of the first companies to solutions for both physical stores and onResurs has participated in the UN Global join HETCH (Helsingborg Tech House), a line shopping are a strong combination Compact since 2018. This means that we new venue in Helsingborg that focuses on that is difficult to beat and wholly supports take responsibility for operating our busigrowing and developing tech companies. the objective that being a customer and ness sustainably based on these ten prinOur dedicated efforts to shape an equal partner of Resurs should be both simple ciples. Social commitment is important to opportunity workplace also received public and profitable. During the year, we conResurs, which is devoted to promoting an attention, and we have been on Allbright’s tinued to develop our omni-retail platinclusive society where everyone should green list of Swedish listed companies form that erases the boundaries between have the opportunity to realise their potenwith even gender distribution since 2018. physical stores and e-commerce, while tial. Resurs’ social commitment focuses on keeping the customer journey front and issues including supporting young people ENTERING A NEW DECADE WITH centre. A number of new collaborations and new entrants to the labour market, COMPLETE FOCUS with retail finance partners were initiated along with a long tradition of involvement New technology, changing customer needs throughout the Nordic region during the as a sponsor in local communities. Resurs and new regulations – we truly live in a year, in parallel with Resurs receiving was also the main partner of the conference changing, exciting world that continually challenges us. With the customer journey front and centre, extensive retail experience and a robust and innovative business ”With the customer journey front and centre, extensive retail model, we feel well positioned to seize all of the opportunities of the future while experience and a robust and innovative business model, we maintaining healthy profits and growth. feel well positioned to seize all of the opportunities of the Kenneth Nilsson future while maintaining healthy profits and growth.” CEO, Resurs Holding 8 RESURS HOLDING GRI 102-12, 102-14 GRI 102-14 RESURS HOLDING 9 ANETTE KONAR RIPLE Chief Marketing Officer (CMO) SEBASTIAN GREEN Chief IT Officer (CIO) ANNA NAUCLÈR Chief Commercial Officer (CCO) Three compelling reasons to invest in Resurs – The past year saw an intensive branding – During the year we completed a project – Our targeted efforts to develop innovacampaign dedicated to raising awareness that now makes our services (SLA) nearly tive solutions that increase sales and of Resurs and disseminating the values we 100 per cent available 24/7. We launched customer loyalty continued to generate stand for. The campaign was launched in the Merchant Portal, which enables our healthy profitable growth in Payment Soluall of the Nordic countries, along with new retail finance partners to track sales in all tions’ Nordic markets during the period. websites and unified communication with of our channels in real time, and our We launched the Merchant Portal and #1 stores. It quickly showed results, as seen in credit card gained added customer value added new push functionality to Resurs the continual upward trend in people’s in connection with new regulatory reCheckout, making the customer journey A STRONG BUSINESS MODEL WITH A NORDIC awareness of us and the likelihood of quirements for card processing. easier. Quite a few new partners joined us them taking advantage of our offerings. – All of the numerous IT projects that during the year, such as Svensk Handel FOCUS AND A RETAILING LEGACY This work is now continuing by ensuring a were started and completed during the (Swedish Trade Federation) and Hedin Bil, uniform experience and clear messaging year had the objective of increasing along with a large number of others, such Today Resurs is a leader in the growing Nordic consumer credit market. Resurs was regardless of the channel through which availability and functionality for users. as Bauhaus and Mio, that chose to expand founded by retailers for retailers, and its business model is therefore based on retailing you interact with Resurs. This philosophy is also reflected when their strategic partnerships with us. experience. The founders of Resurs realised the benefits of retail finance solutions and – We launched Resurs Retail Report, our IT infrastructure has to be adapted – We are already taking advantage of flexible payment for increasing customer purchasing power and consumption, attracting which is based on a Nordic consumer to new regulations, since we always view the possibilities of AI in many ways, and customers to both physical and online stores and strengthening customer loyalty. There survey that incorporates over 4,000 interthis as a good opportunity to develop during the year this technology was exare important synergies among the three business segments, generating significant opporviews, towards the end of the year. In this new business solutions and increase tremely beneficial in reengaging with tunities to use cost-effective processes for cross-selling such as credit cards, consumer report we share insights that provide customer value at the same time. inactive card customers. By tailoring deep understanding of how to create a Delivering customer value and secure customer offerings to them, we won a loans and insurance products with the approximately six million customers in the customer positive customer journey and what drives solutions is the basis of our operational large number of customers who otherwise database as a hub. customer loyalty. Insights that are imwork, where we combine an agile apmight have decided to end their relationBased on its successful business model, Resurs continues to run an operation that will portant in our work with our retail finance proach and an eye on the future, along ships with us. continue in the future to exhibit strong profitable growth, a growing base of retail finance partners to refine and pursue retailing with constant attention to IT security. – Overall, Consumer Loans reported partners, new products, growing cross-selling and strategic acquisitions. that generates loyalty. continued healthy growth in lending. The new conditions in the Norwegian market CEO AND GROUP MANAGEMENT STATEMENT remain challenging. However, our robust #2 UNIQUE SOLUTIONS FOR THE OMNI-RETAIL OF business model gives us the endurance needed to take an enterprising approach INVESTEMENT CASE as we adapt our offerings and continue to deliver customer and business value. THE FUTURE Innovation plays a vital role in Resurs’s competitiveness. The Group is continuously adding new products and services to its product portfolio to support our retail finance partners and benefit our customers. The Group is also focused on digitising its processes in order to make things simpler and more efficient for customers and employees. Resurs’s omni-channel strategy has evolved in recent years to mean that the Group offers efficient payment solutions regardless of the sales channel, such as Resurs Checkout or Click & Collect. Continued development of AI, which Group had already employed in credit lending, in the business is a priority. Algorithms are used to achieve a faster process for identifying existing customers’ behaviours with high precision. This in turn generates activities and offerings that are customised and better suited to specific customer needs. “Responsible business is a fundamental #3 HEALTHY PROFITABLE GROWTH AND AN ATTRACTIVE DIRECT YIELD concern that governs our decisions.” Resurs’s stable returns are driven by the Group’s range of small and medium-sized loans with relatively short maturities, low customer acquisition costs and effective marketing. Small and medium-sized loans with short maturities offer attractive pricing and lower risk. Kenneth Nilsson, CEO Resurs Holding Resurs has successfully developed and expanded its loan portfolio, which has been a strong contributor to growth in total operating income. In 2019, loans to the public rose 12 per cent, amounting to a total of SEK 31.3 billion. This growth is taking place with good control of credit losses, which remain at a stable low level. Resurs also further improved its profitability in 2019 and its investment return (RoTE) was 32.7 per cent, adjusted for the Common Equity Tier 1 ratio given the Board’s target. The Board proposes that the 2020 Annual General Meeting resolve on dividends of SEK 2.10 per share. According to the company’s model of semi-annual dividend payments, dividends of SEK 1.80 per share (SEK 3.90 per share on an annual basis) were paid in autumn 2019. Accordingly, the proposed dividend together with the dividend decided in autumn 2019 entails an increase of 8 per cent compared with dividends in the preceding year. 10 RESURS HOLDING GRI 102-14 RESURS HOLDING 11 In a changing world Resurs’s approach is to seize the opportunities created by a changing world, with strong innovation and cutting-edge technology. As always, A NEW OPEN BANKING ECOSYSTEM our objective is to create additional customer and business value. Sharing and obtaining customer data has become possible since PSD2, the second payment services directive, came fully into force during the autumn of 2019. The customer is the one who decides to whom to disclose their data, for example by allowing entities other than banks alone to access their account information or carry out payment services. Therefore the party that owns the interface and interacts with the customer in their daily life will have an important position in the future. Many new business opportunities are arising in this area, and Resurs is in a good position to take advantage of them with DIGITISATION AS A DRIVER OF the aim of developing new products and services. Resurs’s focus on information security OMNI-CHANNEL continues to be important and central for safeguarding the bank’s stakeholders. Payment processing is changing quickly thanks to the rapid digitisation of many VD COMPETITIVE HAR LANDSCAPE AND OCH KONCERNLEDNINGEN TRENDS ORDET NEW TECHNOLOGY AND SOFT VALUES functions in society. This creates new customer needs in turn. Retail must be able to combine efficient payment solutions in stores with consumers’ digital demand for services. In other words it is important to offer omni-channel retail, where Resurs is a market leader in the Nordic region, and to meet the customer in the channel that GOVERN CUSTOMER BEHAVIOUR suits them best at that time. Another fundamental element of Resurs’s offering is Digital technology and an always connected world have fundamentally changed how that the customer’s relationship with the retailer is packaged in a way that creates today’s consumer interacts, communicates and consumes. Some fundamental requireloyalty. It is critical to continually improve the customer experience by creating ments are direct access to services and information, as well as the ability to complete common interfaces for online and in-store shopping, where the customer can apply, purchases in the same interface for online and in-store shopping, regardless of the sign and pay easily and quickly regardless of the sales channel. sales channel chosen. Resurs’s position as an omni-channel market leader in the Nordic region is based on in-depth knowledge of what drives customer behaviour in a new digital landscape. One important insight is that soft human factors remain fundamental HIGHER CUSTOMER AND to creating a positive shopping experience and customer loyalty. BUSINESS VALUE WITH AI In a world with access to vast amounts of data, it is critically important to understand how this data can be used to create the optimal experience for every customer. SUSTAINABILITY DOMINATES Using AI to perform adaptive and predictive analyses based on large amounts of data presents enormous opportunities. Resurs is undertaking several business-driven AI THE AGENDA initiatives that focus on identifying specific behaviours by existing customers with a Sustainability has never been higher on the agenda than it is today. Legal requirehigh degree of precision. These initiatives are designed to develop customised activities ments, international commitments and stakeholder pressure are important drivers and offerings according to specific customer needs, as well as to include additional of the new business models and innovative solutions that have rapidly emerged. data to streamline credit lending at the same credit risk and credit level. Companies are expected to operate sustainable businesses based on responsible business decisions, sustainable value creation, regulatory compliance and a high degree of transparency. For Resurs, it is a matter of course to pursue sustainable business where responsible credit lending is fundamental, with the aim of creating sound consumption and consumers whose lives should be sustainable both today and in the long run. 12 RESURS HOLDING RESURS HOLDING 13 Dialogues that contribute to long-term growth The numerous stakeholders that affect and are affected by the business are an important part of Resurs’s world. Therefore a transparent, ongoing and responsive dialogue is critical for quickly identifying new expectations and changing needs. In a changing world where needs are An extensive understanding of the issues of shopping behaviour and loyalty. In continually evolving, and ongoing diathat concern each group of stakeholders addition, this dialogue provides valuable logue with stakeholders is critical for helps Resurs to act in a way that adds input into how to design new or updated quickly perceiving new needs. The stakevalue for both the company and its products and services to best meet speholders considered to be the most constakeholders. cific needs. For more information on the cerned or who directly affect Resurs’s The stakeholder dialogue, which is held stakeholder dialogue and relevant issues, operations are retail finance partners, continually through multiple channels, see page 120. customers, employees and owners. provides valuable insights into the drivers STAKEHOLDERS Issues that Resurs stakeholders are concerned about ”It’s easy, fast and secure to borrow, save or make payments, regardless of when, where or how a purchase is made or the loan is to be repaid.” “A good work environment, diversity and equal treatment. The opportunity for professional development and career paths.” ”Secure and flexible payment and financing solutions for omni-channel “Responsible credit that drive purchases and loyalty.” lending, sustainable growth and returns.” 14 RESURS HOLDING GRI 102-40, 102-42, 102-43, 102-44 RESURS HOLDING 15 A stable position in the Nordic consumer credit market The Nordic consumer credit market can be broken down into three main categories: Retail Finance, Credit Cards and Consumer Loans. Resurs’s offering stands out as a variation on standardised, customer-centric solutions that focuses on driving customer loyalty as well as sales. At the end of 2019, the Nordic consumer credit SIZE OF THE NORDIC MARKET 2019 BY MAIN CATEGORY market accounted for total outstanding loans of SEK 879 billion1). NORWAY SWEDEN SEK billion SEK billion THE NORDIC CONSUMER CREDIT MARKET 2019 277 250 200 200 RESURS’S MARKET SHARE DISTRIBUTION BY COUNTRY 150 131 150 83 RESURS MARKET 100 100 50 50 45 43 Consumer Credit Retail Denmark 14% 24 Loans Cards Finance Sweden 41% Sweden 2.9% 3.5% 10.4% ns s rd ce ns s rd ce Lo Ca an Lo a Ca an a in Norway 5.3% 0.6% 5.3% it in er it er lF lF Finland 18% um Cred ai um Cred ai Denmark 1.8% 0.6% 27.1% ns Re t ns Re t Co Co Finland 3.0% 0.2% 7.2% FINLAND DENMARK SEK billion SEK billion Norway 27% RETAIL FINANCE: A financing solution in physical stores and e-commerce. When the customer chooses the retail finance 200 200 solution to finance a purchase, the bank pays the store im150 150 mediately and the customer has the opportunity to make a 106 TOTAL LENDING 100 100 91 partial payment to the bank. For Resurs the average loan is approximately SEK 1,700. 50 36 50 21 14 8 Total lending SEK 879 billion CREDIT CARDS: Credit cards that are used to defer s rd nc Lo rd nc Lo s e an s e payments and pay by instalments. The total credit card an Ca na s Ca in a balance includes both the interest-bearing and the it Fi um it lF Retail Finance mer Cr ai er Cr Consumer Loans ed ed l ai non-interest-bearing balance. SEK 89 billion su Re t Co Re t SEK 605 billion Co n ns CONSUMER LOANS: An unsecured loan is ordinarily for Credit Cards amounts from SEK 10,000 to 500,000. Consumer loans are SEK 185 billion used, for example, to finance larger purchases, extend existing loans, consolidate small unsecured loans or to finance general consumption. 1) Sources: Bank of Finland, Statistics Sweden, Statistics Norway, Association of Norwegian Finance Houses, Statistics Denmark 16 RESURS HOLDING GRI 102-6, 102-7 GRI 102-6, 102-7 RESURS HOLDING 17 Resurs’s four strategic focus areas BUSINESS MODEL AND STRATEGY #1 #2 A CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE BEYOND THE ORDINARY AN EVER STRONGER BRAND Customers must always have a positive experience when they use any of Resurs’s products Resurs endeavours to increase awareness of its own brand and strengthen the brand or services. Using Resurs must be quick, easy and secure, regardless of whether customers in the long term by putting Resurs Bank on the map as a customer-oriented niche wish to borrow, save or make a payment. A support process that focuses on the customer bank with a strong focus on the customer experience and responsible credit lending. experience in combination with digital interfaces achieves not only a better level of service Today’s consumers demand to know who stands behind a service or product. Thereand shorter lead times, but better reliability as well with the reduction of manual processing. fore transparency throughout the entire business is critical to building trust and the Digitisation also makes it possible to form an overview of the customer’s relationship with brand, where the foundation is laid down in a close partnership with retail finance Resurs and facilitate the customer journey by providing service through My Pages or user-­ partners in order to create the best possible customer journey together. friendly features in the Resurs Bank app, for example. 18 RESURS HOLDING RESURS HOLDING 19 BUSINESS MODEL AND STRATEGY #3 #4 IN-DEPTH CUSTOMER KNOWLEDGE IS THE KEY DEVELOPMENT OF RETAIL FINANCE PARTNERS The more than 6 million customers in the database are crucial to the business model Resurs’s unique expertise on the retail sector and its customers are the foundation of and the foundation for customer communication, both providing customer information a close partnership with the company’s retail finance partners. Resurs lays the groundand enabling cross-selling of other products and services. The database collects inforwork for converting visiting consumers to buyers and loyal customers through its high mation about the customers’ credit card usage, payment patterns and credit history, degree of responsiveness to each retailer’s needs and its ability to customise solutions thus facilitating the assessment of potential interest in various products, services and and continually refine them using cutting-edge technology. Resurs’s solutions always the current risk level. Cross-selling opportunities also have a positive effect on costs. enable partners to display their unique brands to the marketplace. Resurs creates value by providing an array of effective payment solutions that allow customers to move seamlessly between the physical store and the e-commerce site to make their purchases and returns, for example by using Resurs Checkout or Click & Collect. 20 RESURS HOLDING RESURS HOLDING 21 A robust business model that Three business segments delivers high value that Resurs is built on Resurs’s operations are divided into three business segments, based on the products sector. Attractive financing solutions in both online and offline stores build customer through the potential for cross-selling and the complementary offerings that can be With the customer database as a common denominator, Payment Solutions, and services offered: Payment Solutions loyalty and increase the repurchase rate. offered to customers already in Resurs’s Consumer Loans and Insurance develop innovative products and services (comprising Retail Finance, Credit Cards Added value is created for the consumer database. Today Resurs’s customer dataand Factoring), Consumer Loans and Inthrough higher purchasing power and opbase contains over 6 million customers, that meet specific customer needs and market conditions. surance. The core of Resurs’s business portunities for flexible repayment options. the majority of whom first encountered model is the services offered to retail fiSignificant synergies are created among Resurs via retail finance. nance partners who operate in the retail the three business segments, primarily PAYMENT Payment Solutions comprises the retail finance, credit cards and factoring areas. Within retail finance, Resurs is a leading partner for sales-driving finance, payment and loyalty solutions in the Nordic region. Credit cards includes the Resurs SOLUTIONS credit cards, such as Supreme Card, as well as cards that enable retail finance partners to promote their own brands. THREE BUSINESS SEGMENTS The Factoring area primarily focuses on invoice factoring CONSUMER and invoice discounting for small and mid-sized companies, BUSINESS MODEL LOANS which is a fast and easy way for companies to increase their liquidity and reduce credit risk. At the end of 2019, lending to the public amounted to SEK 11.4 billion (10.5). CONSUMER Consumer Loans offers unsecured loans to consumers. These consumer loans are normally used to finance larger CREDIT RETAIL purchases. Consumer Loans also helps consumers to conCARDS FINANCE solidate their loans with other banks, in order to reduce LOANS their monthly payments or interest expense. At the end of 2019, lending to the public amounted to SEK 19.9 billion (17.4). INSURANCE INSURANCE Insurance offers non-life insurance through the subsidiary Solid Försäkring AB. The focus is on niche coverage, with the Nordic region as the main market. The non-life insurance operation is divided into Product, Security, Motor and Travel. The company partners with leading retail chains in various sectors. At the end of 2019 the number of customers in the Nordic region amounted to approximately 2.3 million (2.3). 22 RESURS HOLDING GRI 102-9 GRI 102-2 RESURS HOLDING 23 Annual Accounts Act: Business model Resurs’ financial targets and outcomes Resurs ended 2019 with continued profitable growth and a strong trend in underlying earnings. The earnings trend will benefit shareholders through the proposed 8 per cent increase in dividends. Overall Resurs presented its best ever full-year earnings. Annual lending growth Risk-adjusted NBI margin, C/I ratio excluding Insurance OUTCOME 2019 MID-TERM TARGET OUTCOME 2019 MID-TERM TARGET OUTCOME 2019 MID-TERM TARGET 12% >10% 9.4% 10-12% 39.1% <40% Resurs’s target for total lending is annual organic Resurs’s target for the risk-adjusted NBI margin, Resurs’s target is to lower the cost/income ratio, growth of over 10 per cent. Lending grew by 12 per excluding Insurance, is to be 10-12 per cent. In 2019 excluding Insurance, adjusted for nonrecurring FINANCIAL TARGETS AND OUTCOMES cent in 2019. Growth in both banking segments the risk-adjusted NBI margin was 9.4 per cent. The costs, to under 40 per cent. For 2019 the cost/ was healthy. lower margin was mainly due to the performance income ratio was 39.1 per cent, thanks to the Consumer Loans increased loans to the public of the Norwegian consumer loan market, certain scalability of our business model, our digitisation by 14 per cent during the year. price pressure and lower margins due to higher efforts and our ability to adapt to new circumstances. Payment Solutions increased lending by 9 per average loans. cent, growth that was primarily driven by higher volumes from existing retail finance partners. Common Equity Tier 1 ratio Return on tangible equity (ROTE) Dividends adjusted for non recurring costs OUTCOME 2019 MID-TERM TARGET OUTCOME 2019 MID-TERM TARGET OUTCOME 2019 MID-TERM TARGET 13.6% >11.5% 32.7% ABOUT 30% 64% AT LEAST 50% OF NET PROFIT FOR THE YEAR Resurs’s target is that the Common Equity Tier 1 Return on equity excl. Intangible assets, (ROTE), Resurs’s target is to distribute at least 50 per ratio will exceed 11.5 per cent and that the total excl. nonrecurring costs is approximately 30 per cent of profit for the year to shareholders. The capital ratio will exceed 15 per cent. The Common cent, given a Common Equity Tier 1 ratio according Board proposes that the 2020 Annual General Equity Tier 1 ratio for 2019 was 13.6 per cent, which to the Board’s target, adjusted for nonrecurring Meeting resolve on dividends of SEK 2.10 per was well above both the target and the regulatory costs. This target should be considered a conseshare. According to the company’s model of capital ratio requirement of 13.5 per cent. The total quence of other targets. The RoTE for 2019 amountsemi-annual dividend payments, dividends of capital ratio for 2019 was 16.3 per cent. ed to 32.7 per cent, given a Common Equity Tier SEK 1.80 per share (SEK 3.90 per share on an During the period, Resurs Bank and the consoli1 ratio according to the Board’s target and diviannual basis) were paid in autumn 2019. Accorddated situation changed the method for calculatdends deducted from the capital base. ingly, the proposed dividend together with the ing operational risk from the basic indicator dividend decided in autumn 2019 entails an inmethod to the standardised method, which crease of 8 per cent compared with dividends in strengthened the capital ratio in the third quarter the preceding year. The total proposed dividend of 2019 by 0.5 of a percentage point. In December, for the AGM to adopt on 29 April 2020 amounts Resurs Holding AB issued Additional Tier 1 Capital to SEK 420 million. The Board intends to continue of a nominal SEK 300 million, which strengthened paying semi-annual dividends. the total capital ratio by approximately 1.0 percentage point. 24 RESURS HOLDING RESURS HOLDING 25 Sustainability that builds UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS The following six goals were identified as being possible for Resurs to affect and contribute to through its operations: customer and business value Goal 3 Goal 4 Good health and well-being; Quality education; Resurs takes responsibility for people and The basis of Resurs’s commitment to Resurs is to conduct operations characterised by business ethics, social and society by developing a safe and healthy society is to work towards an inclusive work environment, alongside such partnersociety, which it achieves through a environmental responsibility inherent in every aspect. Responsible business that is ships the Pink Ribbon campaign to make a number of initiatives that support difference. Read more on pages 28-33. education for young people and new aligned with the vision of empowering people and giving them the conditions to live entrants to the labour market. Read more on pages 32-33. the life they want. A life that is to be sustainable both today and in the long term. Goal 5 Goal 8 The most important sustainability topics Privacy, Anti-Corruption, Responsible creates for retail finance partners, customGender equality Decent work and for the business were identified in dialogue Credit Lending, Social Responsibility and ers, employees and owners. Resurs also economic growth; Resurs carries out dedicated work to with Resurs’s core stakeholders – retail the Environment. An in-depth description has a responsibility to minimise risks develop workplaces that are character­finance partners, customers, employees, of the materiality analyses and stakeholdthrough proactive work, robust processes, Resurs wants to help create jobs and ised by equality, equal opportunity and owners and investors. The topics that are er dialogue can be found on 120 – 121. By regulatory compliance and a high level of growth in countries where it conducts its diversity. Read more on pages 28-31. most important for Resurs to work on, coordinating resources on these sustainbusiness ethics. operations. Ensuring compliance with monitor and report on are: Employees, Diability topics, the ambition is to maximize labour rules and principles is fundaversity and Equal Opportunity, Customer the positive values that the business mental, as is ensuring that workplaces are inclusive, equal and diverse. Read more on pages 28-33. RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS RESURS WANTS TO 1. Inspire others to make Goal 10 Goal 12 2. B  e a responsible company that supports sustainable choices customers, partners and society. Reduced inequalities; Responsible consumption  esurs wants to encourage a sustainR R  esurs takes this commitment very Resurs wants to contribute to diversity and production; able lifestyle and enable people to and developmental opportunities for seriously and endeavours to have a Fundamental to Resurs’s sound and make decisions that lead to a higher everyone. Read more on pages 32-33. positive impact on its partners, sustainable credit lending is performing level of sustainability. customers and society. credit checks that combat over-lending and ensure a loan level that is in line with the borrower’s private finances. Read more on pages 32-33, 34-35. RESURS’S RESPONSIBILITY As an employer As a company in the region As a company in the industry Resurs supports equal opporResurs is devoted to an inclusive Resurs adopts a long-term tunity, equal treatment, diversity, a good work environment, society where everyone has the opportunity to realise their potential. approach and works responsibly, focusing on the customer. The GLOBAL COMPACT development opportunities, Resurs wants to contribute to health environment and human rights involvement and a meaningful and active participation, and focuses are important and considered Resurs has been a signatory of the UN Global Compact and its ten work life. on supporting young people and in all decisions. principles since 2018. The sustainability report also constitutes this year’s new entrants to the labour market. report to the UN Global Compact, the Communication on Progress. 26 RESURS HOLDING GRI 103-1 GRI 102-12, 102-18 RESURS HOLDING 27 EMPLOYEES / DIVERSITY / EQUAL OPPORTUNITY Sustainable employees 750 Resurs had 750 (765) employees at the end of 2019. are key to our success 9% Percentage of employees in Finland Our employees’ skills, experience and commitment are important prerequisites 12% 69% Percentage of for reaching the company’s strategic and financial targets. Collective efforts also employees in Norway create a healthy work environment permeated throughout by effective leadership, 10% Percentage of Percentage of equal opportunity and diversity. employees in Denmark employees in Sweden LET’S GROW LET’S CHANGE EMPLOYEES / DIVERSITY / EQUAL OPPORTUNITY Towards the end of the year Resurs was sounding board and source of support in edge to their daily work, which they then named 2020 Career Company of the general. After completing the programme, evaluate and modify. A total of 130 manYear1, which recognises employers who all five participants have taken the next agers have now completed the programme, offer development opportunities for step and advanced into new roles at Resurs. and new courses are continually starting. young talent. A continuation of this successful concept is The next training stage is Let’s planned in some form during 2020. CHANGE, which is designed to provide the INTERNAL RECRUITMENT IS fundamental knowledge and skills to drive GOING WELL SUSTAINABLE LEADERSHIP an effective change process while motiAll employees should feel that their job Developing sustainable leadership is vating employees. A total of 60 managers duties at Resurs provide them with many largely a matter of having managers who have now completed the Let’s Change opportunities for growth. Therefore Resurs are secure in their roles and skilled in leadprogramme. encourages its employees to actively apply ing and communicating. Resurs develops To ensure attentive leadership, customfor new positions in the Group. This has led its leaders in two stages through the er service was reorganised during the year to a high level of internal mobility, with 28 Group-wide Let’s GROW and Lets CHANGE creating smaller teams and a higher (21) per cent of advertised positions filled programmes. The first stage, which lasts number of managers. This initiative was by internal resources in 2019. six months, aims to give Resurs’s manalso combined with extra training to enDuring the year, the Resource Women agers fundamental skills and proficiency sure that every manager feels confident Potential Program was implemented for in coaching and communication. During about their leadership role and its attenthe first time. This is a 10-month long prothe programme, the aim is for participants dant responsibilities. fessional development programme for to gradually apply their newly won knowlResurs Women Potential Program women in the Group. The participants have all completed their academic degrees and at the beginning of their caFor Resurs, it is a matter of course to enENSURING ACCESS TO THE RIGHT SKILLS the rapid advance of technology, for exreers. The five participants in the first round were selected through a thorough ”During the year Resurs held its Women gage in targeted efforts to offer an equal opportunity, healthy workplace characResurs takes a long-term approach to ensure a skilled workforce according to ample. Resurs has a highly developed process that ensures an effective introapplication process, after which they were assigned a female mentor in an executive Potential Program for the first time. This is terised by professionalism and many opportunities for individual professional changing needs for resources and skills. It is important both to motivate and induction so that new employees can settle into their jobs quickly. Another important position. The mentors’ primary task was to have personal meetings with their mena 10-month long professional development development. Our daily efforts are guided and led by our shared values: Driven, volve current employees, and to continuously reinforce the operation with new part is conduct exit interviews in order to ensure knowledge transfer and learn tees, guide them in setting individual objectives and finding potential career paths programme for women in the Group.” Open, Innovative and Trustworthy. business-critical know-how that matches about possibilities for improvement. at Resurs. They were also available as a 1) For more information, visit karriarforetagen.se/karriarforetag-2020/ 28 RESURS HOLDING GRI 102-16 GRI 102-7, 102-8, 405-1 RESURS HOLDING 29 Annual Accounts Act: Employees and social conditions Annual Accounts Act: Employees and social conditions A CONTINUAL LEARNING PROCESS SIGNIFICANT RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH RESURS’S DIVERSITY AND Resurs takes a structured approach to EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EFFORTS continual employee professional development, along with a defined plan for which Identified risk Consequence for Management of risks training courses new employees are to take. In 2019 several internal training  nfair allocation of salaries U • E  mployee commitment and HR Specialist Sustainability, ­ sessions/seminars were held that focused and benefits. willingness to develop. Diversity and Health. on developing an active feedback culture, • T  he Group’s work environment. Compensation and benefit manager. with the aim of enhancing communica• R  esurs’s brand and trustworthition skills in general. One example is Employee surveys. ness as an employer and a bank. Communication & Feedback in Daily Work, for employees who communicate with S  hortcomings in diversity and • E mployee commitment and wilGuidelines for diversity and equal many others. This course focuses on unequal opportunity. lingness to develop. treatment. derstanding how one’s own communica• The Group’s work environment. Diversity plan. tion affects others and how to achieve • Resurs’s brand and trustworthithe desired outcome. 57 employees comEqual opportunity targets. ness as an employer and a bank. pleted this course during the year. AnothTraining efforts. er initiative launched during the year was DO IT Together, wich aims to share I njustices that affect daily • E mployee commitment and wilW  ork environment training for knowledge and increase cooperation beoperations, financial situations, lingness to develop. managers. tween the departments through both the Group’s reputation. • The Group’s work environment. The Group’s Code of Conduct. physical meetings and videos on the in• Resurs’s brand and trustworthiPolicy against victimisation. tranet. was implemented in 2019. The process is the most equal management groups and ness as an employer and a bank. The internal training programme on the now based on multiple meetings distribboards. Resurs has zero tolerance for Whistle-blower function. Resurs Academy Online Training portal uted over the year, with each meeting discrimination and sexual harassment.  isk database for risk reporting R now offers over 70 courses, ranging from having its own agenda. The objective is a Counteracting them and supporting an that is available online to all mandatory courses on the Code of Con100 per cent participation rate for active inclusive workplace in every way must be employees. duct, anti-corruption, money laundering employees. In 2019, 94 per cent of Resurs’s a given at Resurs. The annual salary surand the environment to courses in banking employees participated in the two mandavey carried out within the Group is inEMPLOYEES / DIVERSITY / EQUAL OPPORTUNITY regulations. tory performance reviews during the year. tended to identify and establish that The portal also provides managers, HR salaries are determined on objective and course owners with a statistical basis INCLUSION IN BOTH THE WORKPLACE grounds. The survey did not show any to ensure that all employees have taken AND SOCIETY non-objective salary differences between part in the training courses. In 2019 an Diversity and equal opportunity have men and women for comparable profesGENDER AND AGE DISTRIBUTION OF GENERAL GENDER AND AGE average of 200 people/week completed been high on the Group’s agenda for a sional groups in 2019. BOARD MEMBERS AND MANAGERS DISTRIBUTION IN THE GROUP one of the courses. long time, and they are an important part of employer branding efforts. EmPREVENTIVE EFFORTS WITH EARLY  umber of Board members N Percentage of A HEALTHY WORK ENVIRONMENT ployees with diverse backgrounds and ACTIONS ARE KEY and senior executives Gender distribution employees CREATES SUSTAINABLE EMPLOYEES experiences enrich Resurs in every way, For Resurs it is a matter of course to 31 Dec 2019 Number Men Preventive efforts to quickly perceive making it a more creative, profitable and offer a healthy work life that contributes Men 45% efficient organisation. In Resurs’s view, if Board members 8 63% signs of stress and ill-health among emto a high level of attendance and a good Women 55% ployees are a priority. The Winningtemp the diversity of society is reflected in the work-life balance. A number of proactive CEO and other digital platform enables an effective makeup of the workforce, additional measures over the years have helped senior executives 7 43% ­approach where employees can report valuable customer benefit can be created. make both managers and employees their experiences of their work situation, All HR employees in the Group underwent more responsive to signals and situations Percentage of Age distribution stress, job satisfaction, leadership and a day of Diversity = business value trainthat could have a negative effect on employees commitment in real time. Thanks to the ing in the autumn, in order to take strahealth. In 2019 these efforts were folAge distribution on the Board Percentage <30 32% tool’s ability to draw attention to times tegic diversity efforts to the next level. lowed up in the Swedish operation with <30 0% or situations when there is a risk of illResurs’s target for an operation with the lecture “The stressed brain – on 30– 50 55% health, resources can be chosen better equal gender balance is 40/60. In 2019 the work-life balance.” 30– 50 50% >50 13% and proactive measures can be taken. share of female employees amounted ­to The target for attendance within the >50 50% The target is for employees’ overall per55 (56) per cent, while the share of ­f­emale Group is at least 96 per cent. The figure Total 100% ception of their work environment to managers amounted to 43 (44) per cent. for attendance within the Group was 95 Total 100% ­exceed Winningtemp’s index2, which was In addition, the company’s executive per cent in 2019. This figure also includes recorded at 7.3 on a scale of 1 to 10 for management had equal gender distribua lower share of employees on long-term 2019. The Group’s score for 2019 was 7.6, tion with four women and three men, insick leave. GRI 102-41 with a response rate of 78 per cent. cluding the CEO, at year-end. There is a rehabilitation programme for CEO and management Percentage A total of 88 (87) per cent of the Performance reviews are another imResurs’s equal opportunity organisacases of reduced work capacity for work or Group’s employees were covered <30 0% by a collective agreement in 2019. portant part of the process of measuring tion and management is also receiving ­a return to work after a long sickness abemployee well-being and satisfaction with public attention, for instance, through a sence. Through early and coordinated re30– 50 67% All employees have the right to their workplace, as well as planning for nomination for the Allbright Prize in 2019 habilitation efforts, the employee receives decide whether they want to be >50 33% their individual professional development. and a continued spot on Allbright’s green help and support to regain work capacity represented by a trade union. An improved performance review structure list of Sweden’s listed companies with fully or partially. Total 100% 2) The tool includes a comparative index comprising the organisations that use the tool. 30 RESURS HOLDING GRI 103-1 GRI 102-8, 102-15, 102-41, 405-1 RESURS HOLDING 31 Annual Accounts Act: Employees and social conditions Annual Accounts Act: Employees and social conditions SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND THE ENVIRONMENT Social commitment that contributes to social inclusion The internal sponsorship fund Resurs Friends was introduced during year. One of clubs that received support from the fund was the Hittarp Riding Club (HIRK), which applied for support of its “deposit Social commitment is important to Resurs, which is devoted to promoting an horse” project. The project was initiated in 2019 by the children of employees, with the aim of buying a inclusive society. In addition to a long tradition of involvement as a sponsor in new school horse by collecting deposit bottles. Sally the “deposit horse” is now part of HIRK thanks to local communities, Resurs’s involvement focuses on supporting young people the young people’s efforts and Resurs Friends and new entrants to the labour market to reach their full potential. Resurs has a strong sense of social comboth young people and their parents, and MULTIPLE WAYS TO MAKE A DIFFERENCE mitment, and supports organizations and homework tutoring. Resurs is also a partResurs chose to contribute to the Pink Ribbon initiatives that aim to help people take ner of the City of Helsingborg’s volunteer campaign this year as well. The campaign’s A Therefore Resurs’s exposure to risks associIMPORTANT STEPS, SMALL AT FIRST, control over their lives and their futures. centre. A partnership was initiated with Good Cause concept allows consumers to make ated with human rights is considered low. TOWARDS LOWER ENVIRONMENTAL Resurs donates eight volunteer hours per the city of Borås and its Work Life Adminisa difference through their everyday purchases. The Group’s ability to take responsibility IMPACT employee every year, so that employees tration to organise language lunches Resurs donated one krona to cancer research and make a difference is primarily a matter Resurs’s indirect impact on the environhave the opportunity to devote some of during the autumn/winter of 2019. for every purchase made using the Supreme of engaging in responsible credit lending ment is primarily related to its premises’ their paid working hours to volunteer work. The hope is that the Group’s clear posiCard Woman card during the last three months and safeguarding customers’ privacy, along energy consumption. One guideline is to SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND THE ENVIRONMENT This volunteer work is primarily meant to tion will inspire employees to become more of the year. Resurs Friends was a new initiative with social commitment based on the use the available energy mix in each support young people and new entrants to involved in their communities. The volunteer this year. Resurs Friends is an internal sponsorneeds in the local community. country and, to the extent possible, the labour market, but the decision was work has gotten underway primarily in the ship fund that initially enables Swedish employIn 2018 Resurs signed onto the UN choose renewable electricity. Emissions taken during the year to broaden the Swedish operation, and the objective is for ees to apply for sponsorship of specific events Global Compact, the ten principles of created by the small amount of business scope and encourage more independent more than 20 employees to be involved in and activities in local clubs or organisations As part of its social involvement, Resurs which include human rights and labour. travel that occurs is also important, to a initiatives. In Helsingborg, Resurs already some type of volunteer work annually. In that they or their families belong to. enables employees in Helsingborg to give Resurs also updated its Code of Conduct lesser extent. It is a priority to make conhas a partnership with the non-profit organ2019, 57 (22) of the employees in Sweden blood during working hours when the bloodwhen it joined, in order to clarify the scious environmental choices when purmobile visits Resurs. Group’s position on issues such as anti-­ isation Drivkraft, which offers mentoring to chose to volunteer. chasing, for example for the shared staff discrimination, working conditions, spaces in order to reduce food waste and TOWARDS A MORE SUSTAINABLE AND forced labour, child labour, political the amount of packaging. EQUAL FUTURE TOGETHER ­activities, freedom of association and Resurs Academy Online Training has In 2019 Resurs was a main partner of A the right to collective agreements. offered a mandatory environmental course Sustainable Tomorrow in Helsingborg, a since the end of 2018 in order to increase conference about sustainability and fuINITIATIVES THAT REFLECT THE general awareness of how every action ture where attendees from the business large or small is important to help the enviBUSINESS’S ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT community, the public sector, civil society ronment. A total of 89 per cent of employees The materiality analysis, which is the and academia gather to form partnerin Sweden took the environmental course basis of the priorities set in sustainability ships and networks with the aim of accelin 2019. Local initiatives are also under efforts, identified that the business’s erating regional sustainability efforts. way throughout the business: for example primary impact relates to sustainability New ideas and multi-dimensional partemployees at the Finnish office were topics concerning social and business nerships that lead to increased business trained in the benefits of sorting waste and ethics, while it has less of an impact revalue are generated based on the susgreater environmental awareness. lated to environmental issues such as tainability development goals. This partThe digital services initiative is a way climate impact, energy consumption, nership will continue in 2020. Resurs Bank to reduce paper consumption and thereprocurement and material use. As an and Solid Försäkring are also members of fore the share of digital mailings is conoperator in the Nordic consumer credit Techella, a regional network that encourtinually increasing. A total of 57 (48) per market, the Group has limited opportuniages female talent in IT and technology. cent of all post in the1 Nordic region was ties to actively direct capital to sustainable options. As a result, Resurs should sent via digital channels in 2019. RESPECT FOR HUMAN RIGHTS IS primarily direct its efforts towards reGift cards are part of Payment SoluFUNDAMENTAL ducing its own business’s indirect envitions, and Resurs Bank is a market leader Resurs operates in a well-regulated marronmental impact, i.e. within Scope 2 in the Swedish market. In the autumn of ket that is governed by a number of laws and 3 emissions. 2019 Resurs Bank launched a gift card and regulations that incorporate human Since the environmental impact of the made up of 60 per cent calcium carbonate rights in many ways. Since operations are business and the indirect impact of climate and 40 per cent polypropylene. The comconcentrated in the Nordic countries, there change can be viewed as relatively low, pany intends to launch calcium carbonate Around 15 employees took advantage of the opportunity to combine team training with social responsibility by volunteering at Tuvehagen’s nursing home is also clear national legislation based on Resurs’s opinion is that there are no siggift cards in the Norwegian market in 2020, in Ödåkra. Five employees at a time helped to fix breakfast and spent time with the residents on several occasions during the year. “Volunteer work is part European and international conventions. nificant risks in this area at present. and in Finland and Denmark in 2021. of our win-win business that we are now bringing out into society. The aim is for us to serve breakfast at the nursing home once a month next year,” says Henrik Eriksson, Sales Group Manager. 1) The post from Resurs Bank Norden includes all of the mailings sent from the bank’s accounting system. 32 RESURS HOLDING GRI 103-1, Own Annual Accounts Act: Respect for human rights, Environment RESURS HOLDING 33 RESPONSIBLE CREDIT LENDING Sound credit lending that inspires trust Responsible credit lending is based on transparency and clarity concerning the terms of a loan, as well as conducting sales, marketing and credit checks in a responsible manner. Credit lending is a crucial part of Resurs’s • C ustomer data is retrieved from financial situation. In 2019 more than 81 consequences for their personal finances; technical payment solutions such as FOLLOWING UP THE RESPONSIBLE business and is crucial to the Group’s total ­Resurs’s database. per cent of the sales of consumer loans Resurs, since every cancelled loan has a Swish, SMS payments, e-invoices and CREDIT LENDING PROCESS profitability. Resurs’s offering provides consisted of loans to customers already negative impact on profitability; and the mobile BankIDs, in order to make it as Sound credit lending is based on the exishigher purchasing power and enables cus• B  ased on this information, an offer is in Resurs’s database. brand, since a lower degree of trust in easy as possible for the customer to pay tence of a thorough credit lending process tomers to plan their purchases in the way put together that balances credit risk the credit lending business as a whole is their invoice or receive a reminder about that facilitates the assessment of the that suits them best, where flexible repaywith the total monthly cost for the something that could damage Resurs’s a missed payment. borrower’s ability to pay (over time). In the RESPONSIBLE CREDIT LENDING A PROACTIVE EFFORT TO MINIMISE ment options are part of the solution. borrower (interest rate and principal brand in the long term. longer term it is also crucial to achieve a CREDIT RISK Taking out a loan also has a direct effect payments). As part of the process of minimising balance where proactive measures to help Transparent and easily accessible inEMPLOYEES’ SKILLS ARE CENTRAL TO on personal finances. Therefore responsible formation are fundamental to ensuring debt collection transfers, Resurs follows customers meet their commitments do RECEIVING THE MARKET’S TRUST credit lending is a matter of carefully balOverall, this credit process provides that the borrower is aware of the financial and analyses changes to its customers’ not cause hidden credit risks to build up Employees with the right skills and trainwithin the bank. ancing these perspectives and ensuring good documentation for assessing ­a consequences of the loan agreement risk profiles from month to month so that that the necessary evidence is available customer’s potential to meet their comit can proactively contact customers at ing, along with clear processes and authoriResurs has chosen to report a proprithey sign. Everyone loses when a case is for making well-informed decisions. mitments, as well as a favourable loan higher risk, even before the first time that sation levels, are crucial to responsible etary performance indicator beginning in transferred to a collection company: the that is appropriate for the customer’s individual, who suffers from negative they missed a payment. Therefore the credit lending. Their ability to grant credit 2019, in order to provide a quality score A STRICTLY REGULATED MARKET WITH customer service function in every counis regulated in five authorisation levels for its sound and responsible credit lending try has several dedicated debt collection linked to different amount limits, according efforts. Reporting the percentage of payCLEAR REQUIREMENTS teams tasked with contacting, assisting to the logic that the higher the authoriment arrangements made with customers Credit lending to consumers requires a and informing customers who are behind sation level, the higher the requirement experiencing payment difficulties, which ­licence and is supervised by the Swedish on their payments. As a first step, the for training and experience. The internal the customers are able to follow, results Financial Supervisory Authority. Resurs rereason for the customer’s payment diffitraining takes place on a continual basis. in a quality metric for Resurs’s ability to sponsibility as a creditor entails preventing culties is investigated. Next a customised It is based on the Group’s credit policy, analyse the private finances of its cusover-indebtedness by performing a credit current legislation, Swedish Financial tomers. The target is over 60 per cent for check that ensures that the customer is solution is proposed, such as a lower Supervisory Authority regulations and the total percentage of payment arrangenot borrowing more than their personal monthly amount for a certain period. guidelines, and instructions and criteria ments paid by customers. The figure was finances allow. Proper order and controls for credit lending. 63 per cent in 2019. along with robust internal systems and DEDICATED WORK THAT STRENGTHENS processes are fundamental, as well as a CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIPS requirement to win the trust of customers Further developing and refining commuand others. All decisions are based on a Identified risk Consequence for Management of risks nication with customers experiencing systematic credit process in order to minipayment difficulties is a continual process. C  ustomer has insuffi• T  he customer’s case D  edicated debt collection teams mize the risk in every way of the customer In 2019 the company purchased a new telecient repayment cais transferred to an tasked with preventing a case experiencing financial difficulties. This can pacity. external debt collection from being transferred to debt phony system that will provide its debt be generally described as follows: company. collection companies at an early collection teams with detailed data on • L  ost revenue. stage. how customers respond to their proactive • A  risk assessment of the customer’s measures. This information then becomes • D  amage to Resurs’s brand. future ability to pay is performed using important input for stream­lining commuR  esurs contributes to • Reduced customer base. A  nalysis of the customer’s f­ uture systematic processes and statistical nication by better understanding when increased indebtedpayment ability and current loan models (scorecards). • Damage to Resurs’s brand. and how to contact customers in order to ness situation. Credit is only granted • I nformation is obtained from sources arrive at a payment arrangement. in society. if customers, on good grounds, such as Upplysningscentralen (UC) in Strengthening customer relationships can be expected to fulfil their Sweden and Gjeldsregistret in Norway. in general also consists of offering new commitments. 34 RESURS HOLDING GRI 102-15, Own RESURS HOLDING 35 CUSTOMER PRIVACY ANTI-CORRUPTION The customer’s right to privacy Proactive detection and is critically important prevention efforts For Resurs, proper conduct from a business ethics standpoint throughout the operation Protecting customers’ personal data and safeguarding their privacy are critical is required to deserve the trust of customers and the community. Resurs never accepts for a financial entity such as Resurs. Customer privacy is a natural part of a good corruption and always combats it in all forms. customer relationship, and it is based on proper compliance with laws and internal Resurs’s zero-tolerance position is based ship were also updated during the year. training employees on how to combat rules that stipulate how customer data is to be protected and how it may be used. on the philosophy that corruption undermines democracy, warps competition, makes This clarified both the process for how employees should proceed in the event of corruption and developing knowledge that makes it easier to see warning signs a level playing field for business more diffithreats or incidents, and the allocation of are a priority. Support and guidance are cult and benefits organised crime. Corruption responsibility for follow-up. provided by several online training Resurs continually safeguards consumer minimising vulnerability. This means engagINCREASING CUSTOMER SATISFACTION results in serious legal and reputational courses, such as: protection and privacy in a thorough and ing in proactive risk and incident managerisks. Resurs’s operation is primarily exAN ANONYMOUS CHANNEL FOR • Mandatory online training in Resurs’s IS ALWAYS A HIGH PRIORITY robust manner. The business has been ment in order to ensure a satisfactory level posed to corruption through fraud, money WHISTLE-BLOWERS Code of Conduct, which is also part of Rapid technological progress has helped brought into full compliance with the of protection of information and assets laundering and financing of terrorism as Employees who wish to anonymously rethe introduction training for new emto reduce the risk of incidents in many GDPR and the PSD2 directive, legislation throughout the operation. It also means well as bribery. The risks in the four counport an improper deviation from internal ployees. A total of 87 per cent of emways, and Resurs is continually working that has come into force in recent years. employing control systems to flag abnormal tries where Resurs operates are similar, but or external regulations may use the channel ployees completed the training in the to identify additional ways to automate Consumer protection has thus been transactions and cash flows, as well as enits exposure increases along with the size for whistle-blowing available on the intranet. Code of Conduct during the year. processes and services in order to give of its market share and customer base in The recipients of whistle-blower cases are • Mandatory online training on combating strengthened and important customer suring proper control of internal authoricustomer service more opportunity to each country. For Resurs, proper conduct Corporate Compliance Counsel, CHRO and money laundering, which all new employvalue has been added as every individual sation levels for managing information focus on direct dialogue with customers from a business ethics standpoint throughLegal Counsel, who are notified as soon as ees must complete within their first eight has gained greater power over how their and performing services. to provide the best possible service. out the operation is also required to dea case is submitted. An initial assessment weeks of employment. personal data may be shared among fiResurs’s risk committees are responsible In 2019 two (three) incidents related to serve continued trust. is performed as to whether the case meets • Online anti-bribery training. nancial entities. All of Resurs’s systems for all incident management and for the customer privacy occurred, and they were the criteria to be handled as a whistle-­ • Online training about the whistle-blower were reviewed and updated during the publication of the latest versions of cusreported as personal data breaches to the FOCUS ON PREVENTATIVE blower case and then subsequently escachannel. year in cooperation with the PSD2 project, tomer privacy policies and guidelines on Swedish Data Protection Authority. The ANTI-CORRUPTION EFFORTS in order to ensure consistency in the apthe intranet for easy access. lated internally or possibly externally assessment is that the damage was limited. Combating all forms of corruption is a top These are supplemented with targeted depending on the type of case. In order ­to CUSTOMER PRIVACY ANTI-CORRUPTION proach and documentation of personal priority issue, and the Group’s CEO and training efforts to meet specific needs data processing, security classification increase knowledge of the whistle-blower management bear overall responsibility for and challenging situations, for example and other issues. channel, an internal training course has preventive efforts and for ensuring that rein the Group’s sales departments. Resurs been available to all employees at Resurs sources, processes and control systems are also offers its employees training tracks SIGNIFICANT RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH RESURS’S CUSTOMER PRIVACY Academy Online Training since 2018. The A NEW POSITION THAT IS NOW A in place. Resurs’s Code of Conduct and that focus on banking regulations including link to the procedure for employees to NATURAL PART OF THE BUSINESS guidelines are fundamental, and they apply money laundering. Identified risk Consequence for Management of risks ­submit whistle-blower cases can also be The position of Data Protection Officer to all employees, people in senior positions During the year a total of 604 (662) found on the intranet start page. (DPO) has been in place since 2018. The Operational information  rocessing of customers’ P  he Group’s policies and T and Board members. All employees have employees, corresponding to 78.5 (85.6) risks and shortcomings in personal information. guidelines for information One case was reported via Resurs’s DPO’s primary task is to inform, provide access via the intranet to the Code of Conper cent of the workforce, completed IT systems. security in line with extenwhistle-­blower channel in 2019. The case was guidance, verify and document underGeneral information security. duct, which is available in Swedish, English online courses on money laundering and sive industry requirements. deemed not to be a whistle-blower case, and standing of and compliance with every  esurs’s reputation as a R and Finnish, and its associated policies and anti-bribery. D  ata security under the new therefore no investigation was initiated. All senior executives were informed of item of GDPR. Along with other experts, banking operation. guidelines. Resurs has three levels of control European GDPR legislation. or completed online courses focusing on the DPO is involved in an early stage of functions, the three lines of defence, to PROACTIVE TRAINING TO COMBAT every new process where personal data is  mployees’ ability to report E manage corruption risks in the operation anti-corruption. Fundamental requirethrough the Group’s proactive CORRUPTION ments for compliance with applicable processed in order to ensure that personal and ensure that the Group is doing business risk database. It is critical for employees to be aware of anti-corruption legislation in each country data processing is performed on a legal and entering into business relationships exposure to the risk of corruption and of are stipulated in relationships with retail basis and that required security measures based on value creation and ethically proper reporting procedures. Therefore continually finance partners. have been taken. The DPO is also a memgrounds. For more information on applicable ber of the business’s orderer forum, in control levels, see page 55. In addition, Resurs order to ensure that GDPR is fully incorpointernal audit function it is performed by an external resource. SIGNIFICANT RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH RESURS’S ANTI-CORRUPTION EFFORTS rated into the continued development of  hanges in the organisaC  ustomer relationships and C Each Group company’s systems, processes and new products. tion or products and their the trustworthiness of the Compliance and Risk Control Continually monitoring new trends, patIdentified risk Consequence for Management of risks Another important task for the DPO in impact on information offering. function. terns and cash flows to prevent exploitation 2020 will be to advance knowledge within security. I nternal work procedures  he Risk Committee takes a T of the business for ends such as money launReceiving an L  oss of corporate and A  nti-bribery policy. Resurs’s three control the organisation by training employees and division of responsiproactive approach to idendering and financing of terrorism is critical to improper bribe. social gain. bodies for risk management and indepenbilities. tifying risks in the business. Resurs’s proactive efforts. There are clear redent review. Anti-bribery training. and providing them with information. P  rocedure for approving porting procedures for suspicious patterns  mbiguity in the A Uncertainty among Group-wide anti-corruption training MINIMISING RISK THROUGH PROACTIVE significant changes in and transactions. The external business world meaning of the terms employees about right through Resurs Academy. Resurs’s Code of existing products, services, is also monitored in cooperation with groups corruption and vs. wrong actions. Ethics and Code of Conduct. EFFORTS, PROPER MANAGEMENT AND markets or the business such as the Swedish Bankers’ Association, anti-corruption. CONTROL operations. the Swedish Police Authority and other credit All business entails risks, and for Resurs this card issuers in order to share experience and  bservation of imO Damage to Resurs’s  egal and Anti-Corruption Compliance L primarily concerns operational information knowledge about money laundering and proper action that is brand. Officer. risks, along with changes to the organisafraud in the banking sector. not addressed.  oss of corporate and L Resurs’s three control bodies for risk tion or products, that could potentially afsocial gain. management and independent review. The internal procedure for reporting perfect information security. Therefore proper Whistle-blower function. ceived threats in the customer relationmanagement and control are critical to 1) Management of Resurs’s sustainability efforts, see pages 122-123. 36 RESURS HOLDING GRI 102-15, 103-1, 418-1 GRI 102-15, 103-1, 205-2 RESURS HOLDING 37 Annual Accounts Act: Anti-corruption THE SHARE THE TEN LARGEST SHAREHOLDERS WITH DIRECT OWNERSHIP ON 31 DECEMBER 2019 WERE:* Resurs Holding’s share was listed in April 2016, and is traded on the Large Cap segment Waldakt AB (Bengtsson family) PERCENTAGE OF SHARE CAPITAL 28.9% 160.3 million shares in total Swedbank Robur Fonder 7.4% of Nasdaq Stockholm. The year-end market capitalisation was SEK 12.0 billion. AFA Försäkring 3.4% were traded in 2019 XACT Fonder 3.2% TURNOVER AND TRADING SHARE CAPITAL AND CAPITAL DIVIDENDS Erik Selin 2.8% 9.1 The ticker symbol is RESURS and the STRUCTURE The Board proposes that the 2020 Annual ISIN code is SE0007665823. A total of At 31 December 2019, Resurs Holding’s General Meeting resolve on dividends of Handelsbanken Fonder 2.8% 160.3 million shares (122.1) were traded share capital amounted to SEK 1,000,000. SEK 2.10 per share. According to the comNorges Bank 2.2% on Nasdaq Stockholm in 2019, with an The number of shares was 200,000,000 pany’s model of semi-annual dividend approximate value of SEK 9.1 billion payments, dividends of SEK 1.80 per share Avanza Pension 2.1% billion in share value ordinary shares. According to the Articles (7.2). An average of 641,020 shares of Association, the share capital should were paid in autumn 2019. Accordingly, were traded in 2019 SEB Fonder 2.0% (488,222) were traded per trading day, range between a minimum of SEK 500,000 the proposed dividend together with the representing an approximate value of dividend decided in autumn 2019 entails Vanguard 1.9% and maximum of SEK 2,000,000, distributed SEK 36 million (29). between a minimum of 100,000,000 and an increase of 8 per cent compared with Total 56.7% 25,830 At 31 December 2019, Resurs Holding maximum of 400,000,000 shares. dividends in the preceding year. had 25,830 shareholders (18,436), acThe proposed dividend for the AGM to *) Information on indirect holdings through companies, etc. may not be available in certain cases. Resurs Holding’s Articles of Association cording to Euroclear, of whom 806 (618) contain a record day provision and the adopt on 29 April 2020 amounts to SEK were Swedish financial and institutional company’s shares are registered with Euro420 million. The Resurs share will be tradinvestors, 24,453 (17,360) were private ed ex-dividend from 30 April 2020. The NUMBER OF OWNERS shareholders clear Sweden AB, which means that Euroindividuals and 571 (458) were foreign clear Sweden AB manages the company’s record date is proposed as 4 May 2020 Total 25,830 on 31 Dec 2019 owners. The ten largest owners accounted shareholder register and records every and the dividend is expected to be paid Foreign owners: for 56.7 per cent (65.8 per cent) of the shareholder. All shares carry equal rights on 7 May 2020. The Board intends to 571 (2.2%) Swedish votes and capital. ­to the company’s profit and to any surplus convene another Extraordinary General financial and The highest price paid in 2019 was arising from possible liquidation. Meeting in the autumn this year to resolve institutional SEK 62.50 SEK 62.50 (69.50), and the lowest was on dividends. investors: SEK 50.05 (53.65). The closing price for SHARE BUYBACK 806 (3.1%) Resurs Holding’s share as at 30 December The Annual General Meeting in April 2019 INSTITUTIONS AND ANALYSTS 2019 was SEK 60.15, corresponding to a resolved to authorise the Board to acquire FOLLOWING RESURS THE SHARE market capitalisation of approximately highest price paid own shares on the stock exchange for the ABG, Carnegie, SEB and Kepler Cheuvreux SEK 12 billion. period until the next Annual General follow the Resurs Holdings share on an in 2019 Meeting. The authorisation to buy back ongoing basis. At the end of 2019, three Private individuals: 24,453 (94.7%) Source: Modular Finance Monitor. Compiled and proshares encompasses up to 5 per cent of institutions had a buy recommendation cessed data from sources including Euroclear, Mornall of the shares in the company. The and one institution had a neutral recomingstar and Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority mandate was not utilised in 2019. mendation for the Resurs Holding share. SHARE CAPITAL SEK RESURS SHARE PERFORMANCE 2019 Foreign owners 19.2% Swedish owners 80,8% 50.05 Institutions 44.4% lowest price Unit trusts 20.4% paid in 2019 Share volume on Share volume 15 March 2019: NUMBER OF SHARES Private individuals 16.0% on 5 June 2019: 1,155,266,269 929,742,056 SEK 160,000,000 SEK 3.90 70 140,000,000 60 120,000,000 GEOGRAPHICAL ALLOCATION per share in dividends 50 100,000,000 Other 7.2% Luxembourg 0.4% 40 80,000,000 Canada 0.5% Norway 2.4% Sweden 80.8% +8% 30 60,000,000 USA 8.7% 20 40,000,000 increase in dividend value 10 20,000,000 compared with 2018 JAN FEB MAR APR MAY JUN JUL AUG SEP OCT NOV DEC 38 RESURS HOLDING RESURS HOLDING 39 CONTENTS Board of Directors’ Report 42 Corporate Governance Report 51 Board of Directors 56 Group Management 57 Statements and notes Group 58 Consolidated income statement 58 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 58 Consolidated statement Board of Directors’ Report of financial position 59 and financial statements Consolidated statement of cash flows 61 Notes 62 Statements and notes – Parent Company 107 Auditor’s report 116 About the Sustainability Report 120 Management Approach 122 GRI content index 124 40 RESURS HOLDING RESURS HOLDING 41 Board of Directors’ Report The Board of Directors and CEO hereby present the Annual Report and consolidated financial statements for Resurs Holding AB (publ), Corporate Identity Number 556898-2291, for the financial year 1 January 2019 to 31 December 2019. Company overview These targets are presented in their enwell as exchange-rate differences in asfinance partners. Operating income for insurance operations. The capital market profitability in the Motor business line and tirety below, together with the outcomes sets, liabilities and derivatives in foreign the year amounted to SEK 1,529 million was highly favourable during the year, good cost control. Resurs Holding, which operates through its for 2019: currencies. Other operating income (1,425), up 7 per cent year-on-year, with which resulted in higher market values Operating profit rose SEK 44 million or subsidiaries Resurs Bank Aktiebolag with amounted to SEK 206 million (206). the increase primarily related to higher for both the equity and bond portfolios. 53 per cent to SEK 127 million (83) as a its subsidiaries, and Solid Försäkrings AktieREVENUES business volumes. Operating income less Net income from financial transactions result of the higher operating income. The bolag, is a leader in the consumer credit The Group’s operating income increased 7 EXPENSES credit losses amounted to SEK 1,317 million year-on-year was SEK 19 million (-8). total combined ratio improved to 89.6 per market in the Nordic region, offering payper cent to SEK 3,679 million (3,437), priThe Group’s expenses before credit losses (1,239). The risk-adjusted NBI margin The technical result increased 17 per cent cent (90.2 per cent), mainly as a result of ment solutions, consumer loans and niche marily due to growth in lending. The NBI increased 2 per cent to SEK -1,447 million was 12.0 per cent (12.5 per cent). Credit year-on-year to SEK 104 million (88), prigrowth in premium earned and the posiinsurance products. Resurs has established margin in the banking operations amount(-1,416). losses in absolute terms increased yearmarily driven by growth in the Security tive trend in the claims ratio in the Motor itself as a leading partner for sales-driven ed to 11.7 per cent (12.6 per cent), with the Credit losses totalled SEK -669 million on-year as a result of higher lending. and Motor business lines, improved and Product business lines. financing, payment and loyalty solutions decline due to higher volumes with a (-535) and the credit loss ratio was 2.3 per Measured as a share of lending, credit in retail and e-commerce, and Resurs has slightly lower NBI margin. The NBI margin cent (2.1). The Norwegian market is difficult losses were in line with the preceding thereby built a customer base of slightly is calculated as operating income excluding to appraise, since the effect of the new year. The negative development in Normore than 6 million private customers in the Insurance segment in relation to the statutory requirements and the implewegian lending was offset by the posiPayment Solutions the Nordics. Resurs Bank has had a banking average balance of lending to the public. mentation of the Gjeldsregisteret debt intive trend in credit losses in Sweden. licence since 2001 and is under the superNet interest income increased 6 per formation service during the year altered SEKm Jan-Dec 2019 Jan–Dec 2018 Change vision of the Swedish Financial Supervisory cent to SEK 2,902 million (2,739), with market conditions. Work was carried out CONSUMER LOANS Lending to the public at end 11,426 10,508 9% Authority. Resurs Group primarily operates interest income amounting to SEK 3,311 to qualify as far as possible the over-inConsumers in the Consumer Loans segof the period in Sweden, Norway, Denmark and Finland. million (3,063) and interest expense to debtedness in the Norwegian market that ment are offered unsecured loans. These Resurs has divided its operations into SEK -409 (-324). Fee & commission income was not possible to verify before Gjeldsconsumer loans are normally used to fiOperating income 1,529 1,425 7% three business segments, based on the amounted to SEK 223 million (218) and registeret was introduced. In order to mannance larger purchases. Consumer Loans products and services offered: Payment fee & commission expense to SEK -60 age the increase in credit losses, an extra also helps consumers to consolidate their Operating income less credit 1,317 1,239 6% Solutions, Consumer Loans and Insurance. million (-57), resulting in a total net credit provision of SEK 35 million was made loans with other banks, in order to reduce losses The three segments differ in nature. Paycommission for the banking operations in the fourth quarter, alongside the model-­ their monthly payments or interest expense. ment Solutions delivers finance, payment of SEK 162 million (161). based reserves that are made on an ongoLending to the public on 31 December Risk-adjusted NBI margin, % 12.0 12.5 and loyalty solutions that drive retail sales, Premium earned, net, increased 9 per ing basis. Credit losses totalled SEK -634 2019 rose 14 per cent to SEK 19,919 million as well as credit cards to the public. Concent to SEK 897 million (826). Net insurmillion and the credit loss ratio was 2.1 per (17,449). Credit loss ratio, % 1.9 1.9 sumer Loans focuses primarily on lending ance compensation decreased to SEK -223 cent excluding the extra credit provision. Operating income for the period increased to private individuals. Insurance includes million (-226) and fee & commission exThe risk-adjusted NBI margin was 9.4 4 per cent to SEK 1,943 million (1,864). Operthe wholly owned subsidiary Solid pense in the insurance operations inper cent (10.6 per cent). The risk-adjusted ating income less credit losses declined Försäkrings Aktiebolag, active within creased to SEK -242 million (-220). All in all, NBI margin is calculated in the same way 2 per cent to SEK 1,486 MSEK million (1,515), consumer insurance. net insurance-­related income increased 14 as the NBI margin, except that credit and the risk-adjusted NBI margin was 8.0 Consumer Loans per cent to SEK 431 million (380). This inlosses are also deducted from operating per cent (9.5 per cent). SEKm Jan-Dec 2019 Jan–Dec 2018 Change FINANCIAL TARGETS crease is primarily attributable to the income excluding the Insurance segment. The trend in the risk-adjusted NBI The Board of Resurs Holding AB decided business lines Security and Motor. margin was mainly due to the perforLending to the public at end 19,919 17,449 14% in December 2019 to update the financial Net income from financial transactions PROFIT mance of the Norwegian market and of the period capital target for the total capital ratio, was SEK -23 million (-48). The change reOperating profit increased 5 per cent to lower margins due to higher average raising it from 14 per cent to more than lates to value fluctuations in investments SEK 1,563 million (1,487). Operating profit loans. Credit losses increased both in Operating income 1,943 1,864 4% 15 per cent. in interest-bearing securities and shares as excluding the extra credit provision inabsolute terms and as a share of lending, driven by both an increased loan portfolio Operating income less credit 1,486 1,515 -2% creased 7 per cent to SEK 1,598 million. and higher reserves in Norwegian lending. losses Tax expense for the year amounted to SEK -346 million (-343), and the tax exRisk-adjusted NBI margin, % Performance measures Target 2019 8.0 9.5 pense rate for the year was 22.2 per cent INSURANCE (23.0 per cent). Net profit for the year Non-life insurance is offered within the Credit loss ratio, % 2.4 2.2 Annual lending growth more than 10% 12% amounted to SEK 1,216 million (1,143). Insurance segment under the Solid Försäkring brand. The focus is on niche Risk-adjusted NBI margin, excl. Insurance about 10-12% 9.4% Segment reporting coverage, with the Nordic region as the C  /I before credit losses (excl. Insurance and main market. Insurance products are divided into four business lines: Travel, Insurance adjusted for nonrecurring costs under 40% 39.1% PAYMENT SOLUTIONS The Payment Solutions segment comprises Security, Motor and Product. The company SEKm Jan-Dec 2019 Jan–Dec 2018 Change Common Equity Tier 1 ratio more than 11.5% 13.6% retail finance, factoring and credit cards. partners with leading retail chains in varIn retail finance, Resurs is the leading ious sectors, and has about 2.3 million Premium earned, net 898 829 8% Total capital ratio more than 14% 16.3% partner for sales-driving finance, payment customers across the Nordic region. and loyalty solutions to chain stores and Premium earned, net, increased 8 per Operating income 225 178 27% R  eturn on tangible equity (RoTE) adjusted e-commerce companies across the Nordic cent compared with the preceding year for nonrecurring costs 1) about 30% 32.7% region. Credit cards includes Resurs’s to SEK 898 million (829). This increase Technical result 104 88 17% Dividend 2) own credit card, Supreme Card. was primarily attributable to the Motor at least 50% of Operating profit 127 83 53% Lending to the public on 31 December and Security business lines. profit for the year 64% 2019 increased 9 per cent to SEK 11,426 Operating income increased 27 per Combined ratio, % 89.6 90.2 1) Adjusted for the Common Equity Tier 1 ratio according to the Board’s target and dividends deducted from the million (10,508). Growth was mainly driven cent to SEK 225 million (178), of which capital base for the current year. by higher volumes from existing retail SEK 18 million referred to the non-life 2) The Board proposes that the 2020 Annual General Meeting resolve on dividends of SEK 2.10 per share (1.95). * F  urther information on technical results can be found in Solid Försäkring’s 2019 Annual Report. According to the company’s model of semi-annual dividend payments, dividends of SEK 1.80 per share (1.65) were paid in autumn 2019. 42 RESURS HOLDING GRI 102-7, 102-45 GRI 102-7 RESURS HOLDING 43 BALANCE SHEET AND totalled SEK -103 million (-134) and cash REMUNERATION OF RESURS’S size and that operate within the same RESURS HOLDING ISSUED ADDITIONAL CASH FLOW flow from financing activities was SEK SENIOR EXECUTIVES RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES geographical markets. The Group comTIER 1 CAPITAL -372 million (1,470). Since year-end, panies have a low risk tolerance and emIn December, Resurs Holding AB issued bonds of a nominal SEK 1,600 million The Board has established a remuneration Different types of risks arise in the ploy a cautious approach concerning the Additional Tier 1 Capital of a nominal SEK FINANCIAL POSITION have been issued under Resurs Bank’s policy in accordance with Swedish FinanGroup’s business operations. The risks risks that arise in their operations. 300 million. The instrument has a perpetual On 31 December 2019, the Group’s finanMTN programme, of which SEK 300 milcial Supervisory Authority’s FFFS 2011:1 can be actualised in different ways for The Group companies manage risks maturity, with an option to redeem it after cial position was strong, with a capital lion were Tier 2 bonds. In December, ReRegulations regarding remuneration each Group company. through such methods as issuing policies five years and a temporary write-down base of SEK 5,071 million (4,281) in the surs Holding issued Additional Tier 1 structures in credit institutions, investThe following main risk categories under a hierarchy comprising three levels. structure. The notes pay a floating rate consolidated situation, comprising the Capital of SEK 300 million. ment firms and fund management comhave been identified: The Board of each company within the coupon of 3 months STIBOR + 5.50 per Parent Company, Resurs Holding and the Resurs Bank Group. The total capital ratio Intangible assets amounted to SEK panies licensed to conduct discretionary Group has adopted a number of policies cent and will be listed on Nasdaq Stock2,063 million (1,974), and primarily com• C  redit risks (including those attributthat, along with the external regulatory was 16.3 per cent (14.7 per cent) and the portfolio management, recently updated holm. Resurs Holding also made an unprise the goodwill that arose in the acquiable to the credit portfolio, creditframework, comprise the basis for the Common Equity Tier 1 ratio was 13.6 per through FFFS 2016:25. conditional shareholders’ contribution of sition of Finaref and Danaktiv in 2014 related concentration risks and counGroup’s control environment and mancent (13.4 per cent). During the period, The Board has instituted a Remuneration SEK 200 million to Resurs Bank. and yA Bank in 2015. terparty risks) agement of a host of risks that arise in Resurs Bank and the consolidated situation Committee, which is responsible for prechanged the method for calculating operparing significant remuneration decisions, • M  arket risks (interest rate, currency its operations. The policies also outline RESOLUTION ON HALF-YEAR DIVIational risk from the basic indicator method SSEASONAL EFFECTS and the bank has a control function which, and other exchange risks) the delegation of authorities within speDENDS AND NEW BOARD CHAIRMAN to the standardised method, which Resurs’s business may be influenced by when appropriate and at least annually, cific areas of risk. Someone is appointed • Liquidity risks OF RESURS HOLDING strengthened the capital ratio in the third seasonal effects, since the propensity ­­ independently reviews how the bank’s in each organisation to take responsibility • Operational risks (including process The Extraordinary General Meeting held on quarter of 2019 by 0.5 of a percentage to borrow increases at times such as management of remuneration matters for each policy and monitor compliance, risks, personnel risks, IT and systemic 2 October 2019 resolved to pay a cash divipoint. In December, Resurs Holding AB issummer holidays and the Christmas corresponds to the regulatory framework. manage reporting and propose necessary risks and external risks) dend of SEK 1.80 per share to shareholders, sued Additional Tier 1 Capital of a nominal shopping period. The Chairman and members of the adjustments to the policies. totalling SEK 360 million. The Meeting also SEK 300 million, which strengthened the Board are paid the fees resolved by the • Other business risks (including Guidelines comprising the level under elected Board member Martin Bengtsson as total capital ratio by approximately 1.0 perEMPLOYEES Annual General Meeting. Remuneration of strategic risks, business risks, cyclical policies are determined by the CEO or the Chairman of the Board, in accordance with centage point. The Board of Resurs Holding the CEO and Deputy CEO and the Heads of risks and reputational risks) person responsible for the specific risk In 2019, the average number of employees the Nomination Committee’s proposal, after AB decided in December to strengthen the the bank’s control functions is determined area in each Group company. In general, in the Nordic region was 747 (774). Most of • I nsurance risks (only for the insurance former Chairman Jan Samuelson declined financial capital target for the total capital by the Board. these guidelines include relevant informaResurs’s business activities are conducted operations) re-election at the Annual General Meeting. ratio, raising it from 14 per cent to more than Remuneration comprises a basic salary, tion to help employees manage and idenby employees at Resurs Bank’s head office, Board member Christian Frick also left the 15 per cent. This measure is intended to other benefits and pension. Senior execuThe Group estimates credit risks, liquiditify solutions for issues that arise. On the which includes centralised accounting, Board, ending the involvement of Nordic meet regulatory buffer requirements. tives are not paid a bonus or variable ty risks and operational risks as the operational level, company managers legal, risk management, marketing, HR and Capital, which had been an owner since 2012, At 31 December 2019, lending to the ­remuneration. most significant risks that arise within establish the procedures that apply for IT functions. In addition to the aforemenin Resurs. public totalled SEK 31,345 million the framework of its banking operations. specific groups of employees. The proce(27,957), corresponding to a 12 per tioned centralised functions, Resurs has PENSIONS ­Insurance risks are the most significant dures are more detailed and intended for RESURS HOLDING RECRUITS NEW CFO cent annual increase and an 11 per cent employees who address customer and The bank’s pension obligations for the risks in the insurance operations. For furrisk management in the daily operations. business-related matters at a national AND HEAD OF INVESTOR RELATIONS annual increase excluding currency effects. CEO and other senior executives are ther information on the Group’s risks, The Group’s approach to corporate level. The company employs the services of Jonas Olin was recruited as the new CFO This solid growth was driven by both the primarily covered by defined contribution see Note G3 Risk management. governance and internal control is deexternal suppliers for certain support funcand Head of Investor Relations, and Deputy banking segment and is in line with the pension plans. The Group’s banking operations are scribed in greater detail in the following tions, including marketing and IT/operations. CEO of Resurs Holding. He will take office Group’s financial target of lending growth subject to extensive regulations conCorporate Governance Report. In terms of IT/operations, the external in April 2020 and become a member of of more than 10 per cent. TERMINATION CONDITIONS AND cerning capital adequacy and liquidity supplier manages IT services including Group Management. Christina Kassberg is In addition to capital from shareholders storage/data centres, support services BENEFITS requirements, which are primarily govPARENT COMPANY’S serving as Interim CFO during the period and bond investors, the operations are In the event of termination of employerned by the regulatory package that financed by deposits from the public. The and telecommunication. ment by the Bank, the CEO and Deputy comprises CRD IV and CRR, which jointly OPERATIONS between Peter Rosén leaving the company Group’s strategy is to actively work with Variable remuneration earned in 2019 is implement the Basel III agreement withon 31 October 2019 and Jonas Olin taking CEO are entitled to salary during the notice Resurs Holding AB (publ) is the Parent up his new role in April 2020. various sources of financing in order to linked to quantitative goals, and also period, which is 18 months for the CEO and in the European Union (collectively Company of the Group that comprises the use the most suitable source of financing qualitative goals for employees who sell 8 months for the Deputy CEO. The notice known as the “Basel III regulatory operating companies Resurs Holding AB payment protection insurance in accorSTRENGTHENED CAPITAL POSITION DUE at any given time and to create diversified period for other senior executives is 6-8 framework”). and its subsidiaries Resurs Bank AB, Solid financing in the long term. dance with the Swedish Financial SuperThe Basel III regulatory framework inTO RESURS BANK CHANGING ITS METHOD months. No termination benefits are paid. Försäkrings AB and Resurs Förvaltning Deposits from the public on 31 December visory Authority’s Insurance Distribution cludes certain capital requirements that FOR MEASURING OPERATIONAL RISK Norden AB. In 2019, the Parent Company’s 2019 rose 19 per cent to SEK 24,409 million Directive (IDD). The Group has ensured are intended to be adjustable over time The Board of Directors of Resurs Bank net sales amounted to SEK 25 million (26) (20,578). We have deposits in Sweden, in that all goals related to variable remunerENVIRONMENT and that are dependent on such factors and operating loss to SEK -24 million decided in September 2019 to change Norway in NOK and in Germany in EUR. ation for 2019 can be reliably measured. as the presence of cyclical and structur(-20). The Parent Company’s task is to the method used by Resurs Holding’s Environmental resources are used reFinancing through issued securities In the interest of preventing employees al systemic risks. At all times, the Group serve as a central management function subsidiary Resurs Bank for measuring sponsibly and conservatively throughtotalled SEK 7,672 million (7,832). Liquidity with authority over credit ­decisions from must fulfil the specified capital and lifor the Group and to manage large ownoperational risk when calculating its out the Group’s entire operations. The remained healthy and the liquidity coverexercising influence on the Group’s risk quidity requirements, and have capital er-run issues concerning major acquisicapital requirements. This decision Group strives to conduct its operations age ratio (LCR) was 264 per cent (146) in level, the Group has noted that employees and access to liquidity. tions and divestments. meant that Resurs Bank changed its in an environmentally sustainable way the consolidated situation. The minimum who can independently make decisions in The Group monitors changes related method for calculating operational risk by, for example, enhancing efficiency statutory LCR ratio is 100 per cent. Lending credit matters cannot have targets linked to capital and liquidity requirements and from the basic indicator method to the to credit institutions on 31 December 2019 and investing in sustainable products takes these into consideration regarding SIGNIFICANT EVENTS standardised method, which strengthexclusively to sales that they can influence amounted to SEK 4,129 million (3,704). through credit decisions. In the Group’s and services. the Group’s financial targets. DURING THE YEAR ened the capital position by 0.5 of a Holdings of treasury and other bills eligiassessment, the level of risk applied must The risk-based Solvency II regulatory percentage point. ble for refinancing, as well as bonds and be well in proportion to the Group’s earnSUSTAINABILITY REPORT ACCORDING framework has governed insurance opSTRENGTHENED CAPITAL TARGET FOR other interest-bearing securities, totalled ings capacity. The Group annually conTO THE ANNUAL ACCOUNTS ACT erations and their reporting since 2016. RESURS HOLDING BAUHAUS AND MIO DECIDED TO CONTINUE SEK 3,048 million (2,272). ducts an analysis aimed at identifying In accordance with Chapter 6 Section During the past year, insurance operaResurs Holding AB (publ) decided in DeITS PARTNERSHIP WITH RESURS BANK employees whose duties have a significant 11 of the Annual Accounts Act, Resurs has tions published its Solvency and Financember to strengthen its financial capital In 2019 Mio and Bauhaus decided to exSTATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS influence on the company’s risk profile. chosen to establish the statutory Suscial Condition Report (SFCR), and target for total capital ratio. This tend and expand their strategic partCash flow from operating activities In 2019, variable remuneration exceedtainability Report as a report separated submitted its Regular Supervisory Restrengthening clearly exceeds the higher nership with Resurs. amounted to SEK 1,014 million (-450) ing SEK 0.1 million was paid to employees from the Board of Directors’ Report in the port (RSR) to the regulatory authority. regulatory buffer requirements implefor the period. Cash flow from deposits who can influence the bank’s risk level. Annual Report. The Sustainability Report mented in the second half of 2019 and RESURS BANK EXTENDS ITS ABS amounted to SEK 3,624 million (2,457) Accordingly, the Group needs to make was submitted to the auditor at the RISK MANAGEMENT that will be adjusted again at the end of FINANCING and the net change in investment assets deferred payments for variable remunersame time as the Annual Report. For a The Group is exposed to a number of the year. The total capital ratio was The ABS financing was expanded in June totalled SEK -783 million (331). Cash flow ation that are spread evenly over 3 table of contents for the Sustainability risks that are typical for companies raised from more than 14 per cent to 2019, and a new 18-month revolving from investing activities for the year years, with the last payment in 2022. Report, see page 125. within the industry that are of a similar more than 15 per cent. period commenced. 44 RESURS HOLDING GRI 102-15 RESURS HOLDING 45 RESURS BANK WAS AWARDED AN INVESTMENT GRADE RATING FROM analysing and mitigating current developments and our procedures have been paid for the Resurs share at year-end was ­SEK 60.15. Five-year summary, Group NORDIC CREDIT RATING (BBB-, STABLE sharpened in this uncertain situation. OUTLOOK) DIVIDEND INCOME STATEMENT In May 2019, Resurs Bank was awarded an investment grade rating of BBB-, stable ANTICIPATED FUTURE The Board proposes that the 2020 Annual General Meeting resolve on dividends of SEK Thousand 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 outlook from Nordic Credit Rating. PERFORMANCE SEK 2.10 per share. According to the Interest income 3,310,584 3,062,854 2,686,820 2,449,066 1,994,686 Resurs provides sales-driving finance company’s model of semi-annual dividend Interest expense -408,910 -324,025 -268,156 -236,813 -212,607 SIGNIFICANT EVENTS AFTER solutions for retailers, consumer loans payments, dividends of SEK 1.80 per share Other operating income 777,544 698,525 672,681 584,283 588,990 THE END OF THE YEAR and niche insurance products in the were paid in autumn 2019. Accordingly, Total operating income 3,679,218 3,437,354 3,091,345 2,796,536 2,371,069 Nordic region. Resurs has continuously the proposed dividend together with the COVID-19 expanded its operations and its loan dividend decided in autumn 2019 entails General administrative expenses -1,200,762 -1,178,239 -1,065,752 -1,081,596 -989,505 There is a risk that COVID-19 will have a an increase of 8 per cent compared with Depreciation, amortisation and impairment of non-current assets -87,642 -49,039 -35,283 -31,272 -16,496 portfolio increased from SEK 9.3 billion at negative financial impact for Resurs dividends in the preceding year. Other operating expenses -158,663 -188,445 -179,626 -167,454 -151,986 31 December 2013 to SEK 31.3 billion at 31 Holding. There is an immediate risk of The proposed dividend for the AGM to Total expenses before credit losses -1,447,067 -1,415,723 -1,280,661 -1,280,322 -1,157,987 December 2019. Resurs has established a lower sales in the retail sector, and in the adopt on 29 April 2020 amounts to SEK stable platform, and continues to have slightly longer term, the risk of higher un420 million. The Resurs share will be Earnings before credit losses 2,232,151 2,021,631 1,810,684 1,516,214 1,213,082 potential for substantial growth in the employment and thus a reduced ability to traded ex-dividend from 30 April 2020. years to come. pay. The scope of the financial and macroThe record date is proposed as 4 May Credit losses, net -669,454 -535,071 -413,454 -376,693 -374,863 economic effects depends on the extent 2020 and the dividend is expected to be Operating profit 1,562,697 1,486,560 1,397,230 1,139,521 838,219 paid on 7 May 2020. The Board intends and length of the course of events. Resurs OWNERSHIP STRUCTURE to convene another Extraordinary General Holding has solid procedures for monitorIncome tax expense -346,387 -343,145 -317,197 -234,727 -216,010 ing and contingency planning for economic Resurs Holding’s share is listed on Nas­ Meeting in the autumn this year to resolve Profit for the year 1,216,310 1,143,415 1,080,033 904,794 622,209 fluctuations. We are continuously following, daq Stockholm, Large Cap. The final price on dividends. OWNERSHIP STRUCTURE The ten largest shareholders with direct ownership on 31 December 2019:* Waldakt AB (Bengtsson family) 28.9% Swedbank Robur Fonder 17.4% STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION AFA Försäkring 8.3% SEK Thousand 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 31/12/2016 31/12/2015 Assets XACT Fonder 2.4% Cash and balances with central banks 220,799 63,215 61,539 56,173 50,761 Erik Selin 2.0% Treasury and other bills eligible for refinancing 1,758,835 1,009,021 842,731 892,068 956,725 Lending to credit institutions 4,128,953 3,703,650 2,794,283 3,294,955 2,351,285 Handelsbanken Fonder 1.9% Lending to the public 31,344,787 27,956,576 24,068,795 21,204,281 18,198,175 Norges Bank 1.4% Bonds and other interest-bearing securities 1,288,954 1,262,568 1,735,266 1,886,004 1,477,206 Subordinated loans 28,290 27,317 35,902 32,491 25,015 Avanza Pension 1.2% Shares and participations 95,823 68,556 76,368 65,858 32,903 Derivatives 110,707 190,175 40,974 69,902 170,682 SEB Fonder 1.2% Intangible assets 2,063,405 1,973,681 1,877,166 1,885,106 1,784,003 Vanguard 1.1% Property, plant and equipment 139,871 56,228 39,954 42,079 37,132 Other assets 568,324 644,485 358,294 384,470 481,533 Total 65.8% Total assets 41,748,748 36,955,472 31,931,272 29,813,387 25,565,420 * Information on indirect holdings through companies, etc. may not be available in certain cases. Liabilities, provisions and equity Liabilities to credit institutions 94,900 149,900 1,700 141,260 Deposits and borrowing from the public 24,409,032 20,578,153 18,033,013 18,617,943 16,433,531 PROPOSED APPROPRIATION OF PROFITS Other liabilities 1,833,333 1,748,521 1,772,114 1,736,293 1,766,895 Issued securities 7,672,347 7,832,186 5,597,271 3,316,130 2,181,340 Unappropriated earnings in the Parent Company at the disposal of the Annual General Meeting (SEK): Subordinated debt 597,890 298,171 340,044 42,160 38,224 Share premium reserve 1,775,928,446 Equity 7,141,246 6,348,541 6,188,830 6,099,161 5,004,170 Total liabilities, provisions and equity 41,748,748 36,955,472 31,931,272 29,813,387 25,565,420 Retained earnings 70,255,719 Net profit for the year 760,036,260 Total 2,606,220,425 The Board of Directors and the CEO propose that these earnings be appropriated as follows (SEK): Dividends till shareholders 420,000,000 To be carried forward 2,186,220,425 Total 2,606,220,425 The Board believes that the proposed dividend is justifiable with respect to the requirements that the nature, scope and risks of the operations impose on the size of the Parent Company’s and the Group’s equity, consolidation requirements, liquidity and financial position. 46 RESURS HOLDING GRI 102-5 RESURS HOLDING 47 STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION KEY RATIOS SEK Thousand 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 31/12/2016 31/12/2015 SEK million, unless otherwise indicated 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Assets Operating income 3,679 3,437 3,091 2,797 2,371 Cash and balances with central banks 220,799 63,215 61,539 56,173 50,761 Operating profit/loss 1,563 1,487 1,397 1,140 838 Treasury and other bills eligible for refinancing 1,758,835 1,009,021 842,731 892,068 956,725 Profit for the year 1,216 1,143 1,080 905 622 Lending to credit institutions 4,128,953 3,703,650 2,794,283 3,294,955 2,351,285 Earnings per share, SEK 1) 6.07 5.72 5.40 4.52 3.16 Lending to the public 31,344,787 27,956,576 24,068,795 21,204,281 18,198,175 C/I before credit losses 1) 39.3 41.2 41.4 45.8 48.8 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities 1,288,954 1,262,568 1,735,266 1,886,004 1,477,206 Return on equity excl. intangible assets, (RoTE), % 1) 25.7 27.4 25.3 24.3 21.4 Subordinated loans 28,290 27,317 35,902 32,491 25,015 Return on equity excl. Intangible assets, (ROTE), excl. Nonrecurring costs, given the common Shares and participations 95,823 68,556 76,368 65,858 32,903 equity tier 1 ratio according to the board’s target and deducted dividend from capital base, % 1) 32.7 33.9 30.3 25.8 23.8 Derivatives 110,707 190,175 40,974 69,902 170,682 Intangible assets 2,063,405 1,973,681 1,877,166 1,885,106 1,784,003 Core Tier 1 ratio, % 2) 13.6 13.4 13.6 13.2 13.1 Property, plant and equipment 139,871 56,228 39,954 42,079 37,132 Total capital ratio, % 2) 16.3 14.7 15.5 14.1 14.2 Other assets 568,324 644,485 358,294 384,470 481,533 Lending to the public 1) 31,345 27,957 24,069 21,204 18,198 Total assets 41,748,748 36,955,472 31,931,272 29,813,387 25,565,420 Risk adjusted NBI marginal, % 1) 9.4 10.6 11.1 11.6 11.5 NBI margin, % 1) 11.7 12.6 12.9 13.6 13.8 Liabilities, provisions and equity C/I before credit losses (excl. Insurance), % 1) 39.1 40.5 40.8 44.7 48.1 Liabilities to credit institutions 94,900 149,900 1,700 141,260 Credit loss ratio, (%) 1) 2.3 2.1 1.8 1.9 2.3 Deposits and borrowing from the public 24,409,032 20,578,153 18,033,013 18,617,943 16,433,531 Equity/assets ratio, (%) 1) 17.1 17.2 19.4 20.5 19.6 Other liabilities 1,833,333 1,748,521 1,772,114 1,736,293 1,766,895 Business volume 55,754 48,535 42,102 39,822 34,632 Issued securities 7,672,347 7,832,186 5,597,271 3,316,130 2,181,340 Net investment margin, (%) 1) 7.4 8.0 7.8 8.0 7.7 Subordinated debt 597,890 298,171 340,044 42,160 38,224 Reserve Ratio, %, according to IAS 39 1) 51.1 52.6 53.3 Equity 7,141,246 6,348,541 6,188,830 6,099,161 5,004,170 Reserve ratio, %, according to IFRS 9, stage 1 1) 0.7 0.8 Total liabilities, provisions and equity 41,748,748 36,955,472 31,931,272 29,813,387 25,565,420 Reserve ratio, %, according to IFRS 9, stage 2 1) 8.0 9.2 Reserve ratio, %, according to IFRS 9, stage 3 1) 43.3 45.3 Claims ratio %, insurance operations 3) 24.9 27.4 31.2 38.5 43.2 Operating costs ratio %, insurance operations 3) 64.8 62.9 60.7 59.9 52.1 Combined ratio %, insurance operations 3) 89.6 90.2 91.8 98.4 95.3 Required solvency margin, insurance operations 3) 177 Available Capital Base 3) 570 539 653 632 of which Tier 1 capital 570 539 653 632 Solvency Capital Requirement 3) 455 377 361 355 Solvency ratio, % 3) 125 143 181 178 Average number of employees 747 774 730 675 645 Return on assets, (%) 1) 3.1 3.3 3.5 3.3 2.7 1) Alternative performance measures are performance measures used by management and analysts to assess the Group’s performance and are not defined in International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) or in the capital adequacy rules. Management believes that the performance measures make it easier for investors to analyse the Group’s performance. Calculations and reconciliation against information in the financial statements of these performance measures are provided on the website under “Financial reports.” 2) Key ratios according to capital adequacy rules, referring to the consolidated situation comprises the Resurs Bank AB Group and its Parent Company Resurs Holding AB. 3) Key ratios in accordance to the solvency capital requirement and which refers to the insurance operation in Solid Försäkrings AB, subsidiary of Resurs Holding AB. 48 RESURS HOLDING GRI 102-7 GRI 102-7 RESURS HOLDING 49 Corporate governance report DEFINITIONS Available capital base 3) Operating costs ratio, % 3) The available capital base is the sum of Tier 1 capital and additional capital. The Operating costs, insurance, in relation to premium earned. Proper corporate governance practices Articles of Association, the company always comply with every rule of the eligible capital base is the capital that is permitted to be included to cover the Solvency Capital Requirement. Premium income, net 3) are fundamental in maintaining the applies Nasdaq Stockholm’s Rule Book Code, and is instead free to opt for other Premium income is calculated as the sum of premium income and the change in market’s confidence in the Group and for Issuers and the Swedish Corporate solutions that are deemed to better suit unearned premiums after deduction of reinsurers’ share. Premium income refers to Business volume revenue received by an insurance company for providing insurance coverage during a creating added value for our stakeholders. Governance Code (the “Code”), as well the circumstances in a particular case, Customer-related deposits and lending. specific period. As part of this effort and in order to preas other applicable Swedish and foreign provided that the company transparently C/I before credit lossess, % 1) vent any conflicts of interest, roles and laws and regulations related to listed reports every such deviation, describes Expenses before credit losses in relation to operating income. Reserve ratio, % 1) responsibilities are clearly defined and companies. the alternative solution, and states the C/I before credit lossess (excl. Insurance) , % 1) According to IAS 39 delegated among shareholders, the reasons for said actions in its corporate Expenses before credit lossess in relation to operating income, exclusive segment Reserve for anticipated credit losses in relation to lending to the public, gross. Board of Directors, management and SWEDISH CORPORATE GOVERNANCE governance report. Insurance. According to IFRS 9 other stakeholders. A detailed presentaCODE In 2019 the company had a deviation Capital base 2) Reserve for expected credit losses per stage in relation to lending to the public, gross tion of corporate governance at Resurs The Code applies to all Swedish companies from the Code, namely that a Board memThe sum of Tier 1 capital and Tier 2 capital. per stage. Holding AB (publ) (“Resurs Holding”) is whose shares are listed in a regulated ber, Martin Bengtsson, was the Chairman Claims ratio, % 3) Return on assets, % 1) provided on the following pages. marketplace in Sweden and must be of the Nomination Committee for the 2019 Insurance compensation as a percentage of premium income. Net income in relation to average balance sheet total. Annual General Meeting. The reason for this observed as of the first day of trading. Combined ratio, % 3) Return on equity excl. Intangible assets, (ROTE), % 1) CORPORATE GOVERNANCE/MANAThe Code stipulates a standard for sound deviation is that the Nomination Committee The sum of insurance compensation and operating expenses as a percentage of Profit for the period as a percentage of average equity less intangible GEMENT MODEL/GOVERNANCE AND corporate governance at a higher level of instruction adopted by the general meeting premium earned. assets. ambition than that of the Companies Act of shareholders states that the member MANAGEMENT Common equity tier 1 capital 2) Return on equity excl. Intangible assests, (ROTE), excl. Nonrecurring costs, % 1) and the minimum criteria stipulated in appointed by the largest shareholder in Common Equity Tier 1 capital comprises share capital, paid-in Profit for the period as a percentage of average equity less intangible assets and Resurs Holding is a Swedish public limited other regulations. The Code is based on terms of votes shall be appointed Chairman capital, retained earnings and other reserves of the companies nonrecurring costs. liability company whose shares have included in the consolidated situation. the comply or explain principle, meaning of the Nomination Committee. This member been listed on Nasdaq Stockholm since that the company is not compelled to was Martin Bengtsson. April 2016. The company’s corporate Core tier 1 ratio 2) Return on equity excl. Intangible assets, (ROTE), excl. Nonrecurring costs, given the Core Tier 1 capital in relation to risk-weighted amount as per the Swedish Financial common equity tier 1 ratio according to the board’s target and deducted dividend governance practices are predominantly Supervisory Authority's directive. from capital base, % 1) based on Swedish law, the Swedish FiNet profit for the period as a percentage of average equity less intangible assets, nancial Supervisory Authority’s regulations, 1) Credit loss ratio, % excl. nonrecurring costs, given a Common Equity Tier 1 ratio according to the Board's Shareholders (holding exceeding 10 per cent) at 31 December 2019: Net credit losses in relation to the average balance of loans to the public. target and deducted dividend last year and deducted dividend current year. the company’s Articles of Association and internal policies. In addition to the Earnings per share, SEK 1) Net income attributable to shareholders in relation to average number of shares. regulations of the Swedish Companies Shareholder No. of shares Holding in % Required solvency margin 3) Measurement of the minimum capital base level permitted under currently legislation. Act (2005:551), the Swedish Annual AcCalculation is based on premium income and on indemnification paid by the insurance counts Act (1995:1554) and the company’s Waldakt Aktiebolag 57,885,556 28.9% Equity/Assets ratio, % 1) subsidiary. The required solvency margin is the highest of these two calculated values. Equity, including profit for the year and 78% of untaxed reserves, as a percentage of the balance sheet total. Risk adjusted NBI-margin, % 1) Lending to the public, excl. Exchange rate differences 1) NBI-margin adjusted for credit loss ratio. Total lending to the public in local currency, excl. exchange rate differences. Solvency capital requirement 3) Solvency capital requirement is calculated according to EIOPA's default formula. RESURS HOLDING’S CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE NBI Margin, % 1) Operating income exclusive of the Insurance segment in relation to the average balance of loans to the public. Solvency ratio, % 3) Net interest income/expense (excl. insurance) 1) The solvency ratio is the eligible capital base in relation to the Solvency Capital Interest income less interest expenses less interest income and expenses Insurance Requirement. segment. Tier 1 capital 2) External auditors General meeting of shareholders Nomination Committee Net investment margin, % 1) Tier 1 capital comprises Common Equity Tier 1 capital and other Tier 1 capital. Elected by the Annual The company’s highest decision-­ Nominates Board Net interest income in relation to average balance sheet total. General Meeting. Examines making body. Exercises control at members and auditors, Tier 2 capital 2) the accounts, book-keeping the Annual General Meeting, as well and proposes their NIM, % 1) Tier 2 capital comprises dated or perpetual subordinated loans. and administration by the as Extraordinary General remuneration. Interest income less interest expenses excluding Insurance segment in relation to Board of Directors and CEO Meetings where necessary. Total capital ratio, % 2) average balance of lending to the public. Total capital in relation to risk-weighted amount as per the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority´s directive. Nonrecurring costs 1) Items deemed to be of a one-off nature, meaning individual transactions that are not a part of normal business activities. To facilitate the comparison of profit between periods, items are identified and recognised seperately since they are Board of Directors considered to reduce comparability. The Board of Directors and its Chairman are appointed by the general meeting of shareInternal audit holders. The Board of Directors is responsible Subordinate to the for the company’s organisation and the Board of Directors. administration of the company’s affairs. Reviews and evaluations internal control. Corporate Audit Remuneration Governance Committee Committee Committee Risk Control function* Compliance function* President and CEO 1) Alternative performance measures are performance measures used by management and analysts to assess the Group’s performance and are not defined in International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) or in the capital adequacy rules. Management believes that the performance measures make it easier for investors to analyse the Group’s performance. Calculations and Appointed by the Board of Directors. reconciliation against information in the financial statements of these performance measures are provided on the website under “Financial reports.” 2) Key ratios according to capital adequacy rules, referring to the consolidated situation comprises the Resurs Bank AB Group and its Parent Company Resurs Holding AB. 3) Key ratios in accordance to the solvency capital requirement and which refers to the insurance operation in Solid Försäkrings AB, subsidiary of Resurs Holding AB. Appointed by Reports to/informs Group Management *) Function subordinate to the CEO 50 RESURS HOLDING GRI 102-18 RESURS HOLDING 51 SHAREHOLDERS’ ROLE IN CORPORATE A  doption of the income statement and how many votes each shareholder may and strives for a combination of skills evaluate the company’s operations based MEMBERS OF THE BOARD GOVERNANCE/ LARGEST SHAREHOLDERS balance sheet, and consolidated incast at a general meeting. ­­and experience that meet the demands on the established targets and policies The members of the Board are elected Resurs Holding’s share register is maincome statement and consolidated balof ­Resurs Holding’s most important prioriadopted by the Board. Finally, the Board on an annual basis by the AGM for the tained by Euroclear Sweden AB. At 31 Deance sheet NOMINATION COMMITTEE ties. The Nomination Committee believes also decides on major investments and period until the end of the next AGM. cember 2019, the company had a total of A  resolution on the appropriation of The Nomination Committee represents that the diversity issue is important, and organisational and operational changes in According to Resurs Holding’s Articles 200,000,000 shares. the Company’s profit according to the Resurs Holding’s shareholders. The Nomit actively endeavours to achieve an even the company. The Chairman of the Board of Association, the Board is to comprise adopted balance sheet ination Committee is tasked with prepargender distribution over time. is to monitor the company’s earnings in three to ten members elected by a GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS ing and presenting motions for resolution, The Nomination Committee’s proposals close cooperation with the CEO, and chair general meeting. The Board currently R  esolution on discharge from liability In accordance with the Swedish Companies for example, determining the proposals for the 2020 AGM will be published in the Board meetings. The Chairman leads the comprises eight members elected by a for the Board of Directors and the CEO Act, the general meeting of shareholders is on the number of and election of Board forthcoming AGM notice on Resurs Holding’s Board’s work and the Board members, and general meeting for the period until the the company’s highest decision-making D  etermination of fees for Board members, the Board Chairman, fees for website, and proposals for elections to the creates an open and constructive dialogue. end of the 2020 AGM. body. The general meeting of shareholders members and auditors the Board of Directors and for work on its Board will be announced in a press release The Chairman’s tasks also include moniUnder the Code, a majority of the can resolve every company matter that T  he re-election of Board members Jan Committees, the election of and fees for as soon as they are determined. toring and evaluating the skills, work and AGM-elected Board members must be does not expressly fall under the exclusive Samuelson 1), Martin Bengtsson, Mariana the company’s auditors, and the Nomicontributions of individual Board members independent in relation to the company expertise of another company body. At the Burenstam Linder, Fredrik Carlsson, Annation Committee instruction that is to BOARD OF DIRECTORS to the Board. In addition to the regular and its management. To determine Annual General Meeting (AGM), which must ders Dahlvig, Christian Frick 2), Lars Nordgovern Nomination Committee’s work Following the general meeting of shareBoard members, the CEO and CFO also whether a Board member is indepenbe held within six months of the end of the strand, Marita Odélius Engström and and compensation. holders, the Board is the company’s highest participate in Board meetings. The Group’s dent, a collective assessment must be financial year, shareholders exercise their Mikael Wintzell up until the next Annual The Nomination Committee’s efforts decision-making body and its highest exCGO (Chief Governance Officer) serves as made of all circumstances that may voting rights on matters including the General Meeting; and election of Johanna focuses especially on ensuring that the ecutive body. The work of the Board is prithe Board’s secretary. Other members of give reason to question a Board member’s adoption of the income statement and Berlinde as a new Board member up until Board of Directors comprises members marily governed by the Swedish Companies Group Management and other executives independence in relation to the company balance sheet, appropriation of the comthe next Annual General Meeting. Jan who possess the expertise and experience Act. The Board’s work is also governed by report on specific matters. or its management, such as if a Board pany’s profit or loss, motions on discharge Samuelson was re-elected as Chairman to match the criteria that applicable reguthe rules of procedure that are established member has recently been employed by from liability for Board members and the of the Board. 1) lations and Resurs Holding’s shareholders annually by the Board. The rules of proceEVALUATION OF THE BOARD the company or one of its related comCEO for the financial year, the election of Election of auditors impose on its highest decision-making dure govern such matters as the delegaOnce a year, the Board conducts a syspanies. At least two of the Board memBoard members and auditors, as well as body, including the requirements that are tion of tasks and responsibilities among tematic evaluation during which Board bers who are independent in relation to fees to be paid to Board members and R  esolution on guidelines for compenstipulated in financial regulations and the the Board, the Chairman of the Board and members are given an opportunity to the company and its management must appointed auditors. sation CEO and other senior executives Code. Accordingly, in the process of asthe CEO, and detail the procedures for the provide their views on approaches, Board also be independent in relation to the In addition to the AGM, Extraordinary A  uthorisation to buy back own shares sessing candidates for the Board, the CEO’s financial reporting. The Board also material, their own and other members’ company’s major shareholders. In order General Meetings may also be convened. to encompass up to 5% of all of the Chairman of the Board presents the Nomiadopts rules of procedure for the Board’s work on the Board with the aim of improving to determine this independence, the Pursuant to the Articles of Association, shares in the company up until the nation Committee with the evaluation that Committees. The Board’s tasks include the work of the Board and providing the scope of the member’s direct or indirect notice of a general meeting of shareholders next Annual General Meeting has been conducted of the Board’s work establishing strategies, business plans Nomination Committee with a relevant relations to major shareholders must be must be announced in Postoch Inrikes Resolution to buy back warrants of and of the individual members during the and budgets, submitting interim reports basis for making decisions ahead of the taken into account. Major shareholders Tidningar and by making the notice avail­series 2016/2019 past year. The Nomination Committee is and financial statements and adopting AGM. An evaluation was performed by an are defined under the Code as shareable on the company’s website. Confirmaalso given the opportunity to meet the policies. The Board must also monitor the external company led by the Chairman of holders who directly or indirectly control Resolution on private placement of tion that the official notification has been Board’s members. The Nomination Comcompany’s financial performance, ensure the Board ahead of the 2020 AGM, and the warrants of series 2019/2022 (LTI 2019) 20 per cent or more or the company’s issued must simultaneously be announced mittee also makes preparations for the the quality of the financial reporting and results were presented to the Board and and transfer of such warrants shares or voting rights. in Svenska Dagbladet. A press release in election of auditors. Shareholders are free reporting by the control functions, and the Nomination Committee. Swedish and English including the notice in Resurs Holding’s next AGM will be held on to submit proposals to the Nomination its entirety is published ahead of every 29 April 2020. Committee pursuant to the instructions general meeting of shareholders. 1) Left as a Board member and Chairman at his own request at an Extraordinary General posted on Resurs Holding’s website. The Chairman of the Board, the minimum Members of the Board Meeting on 2 October 2019 The Annual General Meeting decides number of Board members needed to form 2) L  eft as a Board member at his own request on the Nomination Committee instruction No. of own a quorum, and the CEO are to attend exat an Extraordinary General Meeting on that will apply for Resurs Holding’s NomiCorporate Board Committee and related traordinary meetings of shareholders. In 2 October 2019 nation Committee. Ahead of the 2020 AGM, IndepenAudit Remuneration Governance meeting meeting parties’ addition to the aforementioned parties, Name Function Elected1) dent Committee Committee Committee attendance attendance Total fees shares pursuant to the instruction currently in AGMs must be attended by at least one RIGHT TO PARTICIPATE IN THE force, the Committee is to comprise repMartin Bengtsson Chairman 1), 9) 2012 No2) 3) • 14/14 6/6 SEK 710,000 57,885,556 member of the Nomination Committee, at GENERAL MEETING resentatives of the four largest shareleast one of the company’s auditors, and, Johanna Berlinde Board member 4) 2019 Yes •6) 9/9 0/1 SEK 293,000 0 All shareholders who are entered in the holders in terms of voting rights registered whenever possible, all Board members. Mariana extract from the share register concerning as owners in the share register maintained Board member 2015 Yes • 14/14 4/5 SEK 582,000 8,407 The company’s Articles of Association do Burenstam Linder not include any specific stipulations conthe status of the shareholders five days by Euroclear Sweden AB at 31 August 2019, prior to the meeting (including Saturdays) with special rules concerning changes in Fredrik Carlsson Board member 2012 Yes •6) • 13/14 5/5 SEK 577,000 138,254 cerning the election or dismissal of Board members, limitations to sales of shares or and who registered their participation on ownership. Ahead of the 2020 AGM, the Anders Dahlvig Board member 1) 2012 Yes • 6) 13/14 1/1 SEK 440,000 108,202 amendments to the Articles of Association. time, pursuant to the stipulations in the Nomination Committee accordingly comLars Nordstrand Board member 1) 2014 Yes • 6) • 14/14 6/6 SEK 890,000 64,994 The Board does not currently hold any aunotice, are entitled to participate in the prises members appointed as follows: meeting and to cast votes based on the Martin Bengtsson appointed by Waldakt Marita Odélius thority granted by a general meeting of Engström Board member 2015 Yes • 6) • 12/14 6/6 SEK 594,000 23,407 shareholders to make a decision on Resurs number of shares that they hold. ShareAB; Anna Sundberg appointed by HandelsHolding issuing any new shares. At the Anholders who are unable to attend in perbanken Fonder; Ulrika Danielson appointMikael Wintzell Board member 2018 Yes 12/14 SEK 440,000 0 nual General Meeting on 25 April 2019, the son may be represented by a proxy. ed by the Second AP Fund; and Erik Selin Jan Samuelson Chairman 7) 2012 Yes (•)7) (•)7) 10/11 8/8 SEK 1,065,000 7) Board was once again authorised to buy Shareholders may not be accompanied by appointed by the Erik Selin Fastigheter Christian Frick Board member 8) 2012 No2) (•)8) (•)8) 9/11 6/8 SEK 367,000 8) back own shares to encompass up to 5 per more than two individuals. AB Group. Some major shareholders have cent of all of the shares in the company up In addition to registering with the declined to appoint members a regards 1) T he following individuals were also former Board members of Resurs Bank and/or Solid prior to the foundation of Resurs Holding in 2012: until the next Annual General Meeting. company, shareholders whose shares are both the Nomination Committee’s initial Martin Bengtsson (Resurs Bank and Solid, since 2008), Anders Dahlvig (Resurs Bank, 2011) and Lars Nordstrand (Resurs Bank, 2011). In addition to the Annual General held in the custody of a trustee through a composition and later changes in owner2) Not independent in relation to the company’s major shareholders. Meeting, an Extraordinary General bank or other securities firm must tempoship. In accordance with the applicable 3) Not independent in relation to the company and its management. Meeting was held during the year. rarily register their shares in their own instructions for the Nomination Commit4) Board member since 25 April 2019. A total of 129,401,134 shares were repname with Euroclear Sweden AB in order tee, Martin Bengtsson is the Chairman of 5) Reported fees refer to total remuneration Board member received for serving on the board of the company and its subsidiaries. resented at the 2019 AGM. The representto be entitled to participate in the meeting. the Nomination Committee since he is 6) Committee member since 2 October 2019. ed shares comprised approximately 64.7 Shareholders should inform their trustees appointed by Resurs Holding’s largest 7) Stepped down as Chairman of the Board and Chairman of the Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee on 2 October 2019. Therefore no of this well in advance of the general shareholder Waldakt AB (with 28.9 per information on shareholdings at 31 December 2019 is provided. per cent of the total number of shares in 8) R esigned as Board member and member of the Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee on 2 October 2019. Therefore no information on the company. meeting. cent of the shares/votes). shareholdings at 31 December 2019 is provided. The resolutions passed at the 2019 AGM Resurs Holding’s Articles of AssociaThe Nomination Committee applies 9) Chairman of the Board from 2 October 2019. included: tion do no stipulate any limitations as to item 4.1 of the Code as its diversity policy, 52 RESURS HOLDING GRI 102-18 GRI 102-18 RESURS HOLDING 53 THE BOARD’S WORK IN 2019 Governance Committee is also to inform Resurs Holding’s Audit Committee conthe Board of and provide recommendaMember tinuously ensures the quality of Resurs of Group Employed No. of own Fourth quarter First quarter tions on the results of these reviews and manageat Resurs and related Own number Holding’s financial reporting, while the • Adoption of Q3 report • Financial reporting and operationsevaluations. The Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Committee enName Position ment since1) since parties’ shares of warrants • A T1 issue related matters Committee has four members: Lars Nordsures the quality of Resurs Holding’s • F inancial reporting and operations• Credit matters, large exposures, strand (Chairman), Johanna Berlinde, Kenneth Nilsson President and CEO 1) 2012 1993 478,474 4) 1,365,979 corporate governance, internal control, related matters problem credits • B oard’s annual strategy meeting • T2 issue Mariana Burenstam Linder and Marita compliance, risk control and internal • C redit matters, large exposures, • Year-end report Odélius Engström. Christina Kassberg Interim CFO 2019 2019 3) 12,100 0 audit functions. problem credits • Audit plan for external audit • E valuation of the Board of Directors • Remuneration of senior executives REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Anna Nauclèr CCO 2018 2018 0 145,704 RISK ASSESSMENT AND CONTROL and the CEO • Warrant buyback The Remuneration Committee’s task is to ACTIVITIES • R eporting from control functions • Reporting from control functions • B udget 2020 • Documents for Annual General Meeting prepare matters concerning terms of emEva Brike CHRO 2017 2017 0 227,663 Resurs Holding has implemented a model ployment and assignments for Board for assessing the risk of errors in the acmembers and executive management. Anette Konar Riple CMO 2017 2017 0 81,958 counting and the financial reporting. The The Remuneration Committee is to monitor most significant items and processes in Q4 Q1 and evaluate the application of the guideSebastian Green CIO 2018 2018 0 0 DEC JAN which the risk of material errors may typilines for remuneration to senior executives cally exist include income-statement and NOV FEB which the general meeting is to adopt acErik Frick COO 2013 2) 2012 75,485 227,663 balance-sheet items, lending to the public, cording to the law, and assist the Board intangible assets and financial instruments. OCT MAR 1) R  esurs Holding AB was founded in 2012. The following individuals held positions at Resurs Bank prior to the with support and advice in formulating the Resurs Holding continuously monitors the Group companies’ respective remuneration foundation of Resurs Holding AB: Kenneth Nilsson (since 2001). effectiveness of the control of these items SEP APR policies to promote sound and efficient risk 2) Previously CSO and member of Group Management as COO since 2018. and processes. management and, if necessary, propose 3) As a consultant. AUG 4) Number of shares is 500,000 at 4 February 2020. MAY changes. The internal policies govern MONITORING, EVALUATION AND JUL JUN matters such as the balance between fixed Q3 Q2 REPORTING and variable remuneration, and the relation The Board continuously evaluates the inbetween earnings and compensation, the Resurs Holding’s Group Management latory framework, comprise the basis for Third quarter Second quarter formation it receives. The Board regularly primary terms for bonus and incentive consists of seven people: the CEO, CFO, Resurs Holding’s control environment. All • Documents for Extraordinary • Financial reporting and operationsreceives reports from the business areas schemes, and the terms for other benefits, CCO, CHRO, CMO, CIO and COO. employees are responsible for complying General Meeting related matters concerning Resurs Holding’s financial po• Adoption of Q2 report • Credit matters, large exposures, pensions, resignation/dismissal and termiRemuneration of the CEO senior execuwith the adopted policies. The Board has sition and reports from the Audit Com• Financial reporting and problem credits nation benefits if applicable. The Remunertives may include fixed salary, long-term adopted policies that govern the responmittee regarding their observations, operations-related matters • Internal liquidity adequacy ation Committee is tasked with monitoring incentive programmes, pensions and sibilities of the CEO and the Board. The recommendations, and proposals on ac• Credit matters, large exposures, assessment process (ILAAP) and evaluating the results of variable reother benefits. Senior executives are not Board’s rules of procedures stipulate problem credits • Adoption of Q1 report tions and decisions. The internal audit muneration, and the Group’s compliance paid a bonus or variable remuneration. that due to the consolidated situation, • NPE strategy • Annual Report and Annual function, compliance function and risk with the guidelines for remuneration as The Annual General Meeting on 25 April which includes Resurs Holding together • Group recovery plan General Meeting control function regularly report their • Reporting from control functions • Statutory Board meeting adopted by a general meeting. The Remu2019 resolved on remuneration guidelines with Resurs Bank, the Board is to ensure observations and proposals for actions • Funding/MTN neration Committee has three members: that are to apply for remuneration of the the presence of a risk control function to the CEO, the Board and certain Board • Reporting from control functions Fredrik Carlsson (Chairman), Anders CEO and other senior executives. (second line of defence), a compliance Committees. The internal and external Dahlvig and Lars Nordstrand. Remuneration of the CEO and other function (second line of defence) and an regulatory frameworks that govern finansenior executives is to be determined by internal audit function (third line of decial reporting are communicated internally BOARD COMMITTEES with the auditors. The Audit Committee is CEO AND OTHER SENIOR EXECUTIVES the Board in accordance with the guidefence), all of which are organisationally by way of policies that are published on Although the overall responsibility of the also to assist Resurs Holding’s Nomination The CEO is subordinate to the Board of lines on remuneration of senior executives separated from one another. The control the Group’s intranet. Board cannot be delegated, the Board inCommittee in producing candidates for Directors and is responsible for the comapproved by a general meeting and interfunctions must regularly report on signifstitutes Committees from among its ranks external auditors. The Audit Committee pany’s operational management and its nal policies based on regulations on remuicant weaknesses and risks to the Board that prepare, evaluate and monitor mathas three members: Fredrik Carlsson neration systems in banking and insurance AUDITORS day-to-day business. The delegation of and CEO. The reports are to follow up on ters within each specific area ahead of (Chairman), Martin Bengtsson and Marita operations applicable at any time. Ernst & Young AB (Jakobsbergsgatan 24, duties among the Board and the CEO is previously reported weaknesses and decisions by the Board. Accordingly, the Odélius Engström. The Audit Committee SE-111 44, Stockholm, Sweden), has outlined in the Board’s rules of procedure risks and account for each newly identiBoard has instituted an Audit Committee, fulfils the requirements on auditing and served as the company’s auditor since and the CEO’s instructions. The CEO is also INTERNAL CONTROL fied significant weakness and risk. The Corporate Governance Committee and accounting expertise as stipulated in the 2013, with Niklas Paulsson as the Audiresponsible for preparing reports and The Board’s responsibility for internal conBoard and the CEO are to take the apRemuneration Committee. The Committee Swedish Companies Act. tor-in-Charge. Niklas Paulsson is an Aucompiling information from management trol is governed by the Swedish Companies propriate actions based on the control members and Chairmen are appointed by thorised Public Accountant and a member ahead of Board meetings and makes Act, the Annual Accounts Act (1995:1554), functions’ reports as soon as possible. the Board and their work is governed by of FAR, the institute for the accountancy CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE presentations at the Board meetings. the Code and the applicable elements of The Board and the CEO are to ensure each Committee’s rules of procedure. profession in Sweden, as well as a licensed The Corporate Governance Committee’s Pursuant to the internal policies on fithe Swedish Financial Supervisory Authorithat Group has procedures in place to auditor for financial companies. tasks include evaluating the Group’s internancial reporting, the CEO is responsible for ty’s regulations and general recommendaregularly monitor actions that were The company’s auditor participates in AUDIT COMMITTEE nal control and policies pertaining to financial reporting at Resurs Holding and tions. The procedures for internal control, taken based on reports made by the a number of Audit Committee meetings One of the primary tasks of the Audit compliance, risk control and internal audit, must thus ensure that the Board has suffirisk assessment, control activities and control functions. Responsibility for and the Board meeting at which the Committee in accordance with Chapter 8, insofar as these do not influence the area cient information in order to be able to regmonitoring regarding its financial reporting maintaining an effective control environ­Annual Report and consolidated financial Section 49b of the Swedish Companies of financial reporting, for which the Audit ularly assess the company and the Group’s were designed to ensure reliable overall fiment and a regular focus on risk assessstatements are addressed. At this Board Act is to ensure that the Board meets its Committee is responsible. Among other financial position. Accordingly, the CEO nancial reporting and external financial rement and internal control regarding meeting, the auditor presents such oversight requirements pertaining to aumatters, the Corporate Governance Comcontinuously keeps the Board informed of porting pursuant to IFRS, prevailing laws financial reporting is delegated to the matters as the financial information diting, accounting and financial reporting. mittee is to evaluate observations and the performance of the business, earnings and regulations, and other requirements CEO. However, responsibility ultimately and discusses the audit with the Board The Audit Committee is also tasked with proposals for improvement measures and financial position, trends in liquidity that must be complied with by companies lies with the Board. The CEO must regumembers. The external auditing of the reviewing the processes and procedures based on reports submitted by the comand credit risk, key business developments, listed on the Nasdaq Stockholm. These larly provide the Board with a written company’s and subsidiaries’ financial for the aforementioned areas. In addition, pliance function, risk control function and as well as any other event, circumstance or efforts involve the Board, Group ManageCEO report, including general commenstatements and accounts, as well as the the Audit Committee is to supervise the internal audit function, review Resurs condition that could be assumed to be of ment and other personnel. tary on significant events. As operative Board’s and CEO’s administration, is impartiality and independence of the auBank’s internal capital and liquidity assesssignificance for the company’s shareholdpersonnel in the first line of defence, conducted in accordance with generally ditor, evaluate the auditing practices and ments, and monitor proposals on legislaers. Furthermore, the CEO is to lead the exCONTROL ENVIRONMENT managers at various levels within the accepted accounting policies. discuss the coordination between the tive amendments that may impact the ecutive management and execute the The Board has adopted a number of poliGroup are responsible for identifying and external and internal auditing functions Group’s licensed operations. The Corporate decisions made by the Board. cies, which, along with the external reguaddressing identified risks. 54 RESURS HOLDING GRI 102-18 GRI 102-18 RESURS HOLDING 55 Board of Directors Group Management Martin Bengtsson Johanna Berlinde Kenneth Nilsson Christina Kassberg Born in 1970. Chairman of the Board since 2019 and Born in 1970. Member of the Board since 2019. Born in 1962. President and CEO since 2012. Born in 1968. Chief Financial Officer (CFO) since Board member since 2012. Chairman of the NominaMember of the Corporate Governance Committee. 2019. tion Committee and member of the Audit Committee. Education and professional experience: Economics Education and professional experience: MSc in and marketing studies. Former CEO of Solid Education and professional experience: BSc in Education and professional experience: MSc in Economics and Business Administration. Former Försäkringsaktiebolag. Economics from Stockholm University. Previously Economics and Business Administration. Previously Sales Director Tele2Vision, Director of Product & CFO Addtech (publ), CFO Stim, EVP Finance and Manager, Business development at SIBA Aktiebolag, Other current appointments: CEO of Resurs Bank. Administration Medivir (publ), Controller Medivir Marketing B2B Tele2 Sweden, VP Head of TV & Country Manager at SIBA Aktiebolag, Danish Branch Media Telia Company. Head of M&A and Partner (publ), Auditor Öhrling PricewaterhouseCoopers. and Investment Manager at Waldir Aktiebolag. Management Telia Sweden. Other current appointments: CEO of KCK ManageOther significant appointments: Chairman of the Other significant appointments: VP Head of Product ment Consulting AB. Board, SIBA Fastigheter AB. Board member and Area Connectivity Telia Company and Board member CEO of SIBA Invest AB (formerly Waldir Aktiebolag of Solidtango AB. and Waldakt AB). Mariana Burenstam Linder Fredrik Carlsson Eva Brike Erik Frick Born in 1957. Member of the Board since 2015. Born in 1970. Member of the Board since 2012. Date of birth: 1968. Chief Human Resources Officer Date of birth: 1982. Chief Operating Officer (COO) Member of the Corporate Governance Committee. Chairman of the Audit Committee and Remuneration (CHRO) since 2017. and Deputy CEO of Resurs Bank since 2018. Committee. Education and professional experience: MSc in Education and professional experience: BSc in Education and professional experience: BSc in Economics and Business Administration. Previously Education and professional experience: MBA, BSc in Human Resource Management, University of Lund. Business Administration, Växjö University and CEO of Nordic Management AB, ABB Financial Business Administration. Former Global Head of Previously Senior Vice President Human Resources MSc in Business & Corporate entrepreneurship, Consulting, Ainax AB and member of the executive Research, SEB Enskilda, Head of Equities, Second at Rosti Group and HR Director at Air Liquide Norden, Chalmers University of Technology. Previously committee of Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken AB AP Fund, Bank of America/Merrill Lynch and HSBC. BRIO Group and Ericsson Mobile Platforms. Head of Group CRM and Project Management at (publ), founder of Burenstam & Partners AB and CDON Group and Sales Manager at CDON AB. Other significant appointments: Chairman of the Other current appointments: Board member of ProactiveMedicine AB. Board of Directors of Svolder Aktiebolag and Sten A Dacke Industri AB and Dacke Industri Holding AB. Other current appointments: Board member of Other significant appointments: Board member of Olssons Pensionsstiftelse. Board member of Betsson Kivra Oy. Deputy Board member of Resurs Norden Investmentaktiebolaget Latour and BTS Group AB. AB, Novobis AB and Torsten Söderberg Foundation. AB and Resurs Förvaltning Norden AB. Anders Dahlvig Lars Nordstrand Sebastian Green Anna Nauclèr Born in 1957. Member of the Board since 2012. Born in 1951. Member of the Board since 2012. Born in 1973. Chief Information Officer (CIO) Born in 1977. Chief Commercial Officer (CCO) and Member of the Remuneration Committee. Member of the Corporate Governance Committee since 2018. Deputy CEO of Resurs Bank since 2018. and Remuneration Committee. Education and professional experience: BSc in Education and professional experience: MSc Education and professional experience: MSc in Business Administration and MA in Economics. Education and professional experience: BSc in in Computer Engineering, Lund University. Business Administration, Stockholm University. Former President and CEO of IKEA. Humanities and MSc in Economics and Business Previously CIO and Head of Development at Previously Sales Manager and Country Manager at Administration. Former CEO of Moderna FörsäkringBergendahls Food, IT consultant at Capgemini, Unilever FoodSolutions, BI Consultant at KnowIT, Other significant appointments: Chairman of Inter ar and Movestic Livförsäkring AB and Deputy CEO NCR Teradata and IKEA. CFO at Innograte. Ikea Holding BV. Board member of of Invik, major in the reserve. Other current appointments: Other current appointments: Board member at Out H & M Hennes & Mauritz AB, Oriflame AG and Other significant appointments: Chairman of Anticiof Home. Dunkers stiftelser. mex Försäkringar AB. Board member of Modernac S.A Luxembourg and Nordnet Pensionsförsäkring AB. Marita Odélius Engström Mikael Wintzell Anette Konar Riple Born in 1961. Member of the Board since 2015. Born in 1981. Member of the Board since 2018. Date of birth: 1975. Chief Marketing Officer (CMO) Member of the Audit Committee and Corporate since 2017. Governance Committee. Education and professional experience: Upper-secondary engineering course. Deputy Chief Commercial Education and professional experience: Law degree, Education and professional experience: MSc in Officer at Klarna, Sales Director at Payex. Currently Lund University and Master of International RelaEconomics and Business Administration, AuthoFounder and CEO of Wellstreet Group. tions, SAIS Johns Hopkins University. Previously rised Public Accountant. Former CFO and Head of Business Area Manager and Marketing Director at Process & Synergies, Skandia Nordic Group. Other significant appointments: Board member of Euroflorist, Brand Manager at Procter & Gamble and companies associated with Wellstreet Group. PR Consultant at Kreab. Other significant appointments: CEO of Fora AB. Other current appointments: 56 RESURS HOLDING RESURS HOLDING 57 Statements and notes, Group STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION, GROUP SEK thousand Note 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 INCOME STATEMENT, GROUP Assets SEK thousand Note 2019 2018 Cash and balances at central banks 220,799 63,215 Interest income G7 3,310,584 3,062,854 Treasury and other bills eligible for refinancing G21 1,758,835 1,009,021 Interest expenses G7 -408,910 -324,025 Lending to credit institutions G22 4,128,953 3,703,650 Fee and commission income, banking operations G8 222,693 217,836 Lending to the public G23 31,344,787 27,956,576 Fee and commission expense, banking operations G8 -60,442 -57,090 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities G24 1,288,954 1,262,568 Premium earned, net G9 896,509 826,154 Subordinated loans G25 28,290 27,317 Insurance compensation, net G10 -222,941 -226,211 Shares and participations G26 95,823 68,556 Fee and commission expense, insurance operations -242,084 -220,345 Derivatives G27 110,707 190,175 Net income/expense from financial transactions G11 -22,536 -47,929 Goodwill G28 1,773,508 1,719,056 Other operating income G12 206,345 206,110 Other intangible assets G28 289,897 254,625 Total operating income 3,679,218 3,437,354 Property, plant and equipment G29 139,871 56,228 Reinsurer's share of technical provisions G30 3,876 4,267 General administrative expenses G14,G15 -1,200,762 -1,178,239 Other assets G31 91,480 99,122 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment of tangible and intangible assets G16 -87,642 -49,039 Current tax asset 46,102 106,736 Other operating expenses G17 -158,663 -188,445 Deferred tax asset G19 5,237 26,695 Total expenses before credit losses -1,447,067 -1,415,723 Prepaid expenses and accrued income G32 421,629 407,665 Total assets 41,748,748 36,955,472 Profit before credit losses 2,232,151 2,021,631 Liabilities, provisions and equity Credit losses, net G18 -669,454 -535,071 Liabilities and provisions Operating profit 1,562,697 1,486,560 Liabilities to credit institutions G33 94,900 149,900 Deposits and borrowing from the public G34 24,409,032 20,578,153 Income tax expense G19 -346,387 -343,145 Other liabilities G35 694,487 680,616 Profit for the year 1,216,310 1,143,415 Derivatives G27 25,358 12,984 Accrued expenses and deferred income G36 211,861 183,080 Portion attributable to Resurs Holding AB shareholders 1,213,343 1,143,415 Current tax liability 54,452 98,344 Portion attributable to additional Tier 1 capital holders 2,967 Deferred tax liability G19 241,281 218,521 Profit for the year 1,216,310 1,143,415 Technical provisions G37 585,557 532,115 Other provisions G38 20,337 22,861 Basic and diluted earnings per share, SEK G20 6.07 5.72 Issued securities G39 7,672,347 7,832,186 Subordinated debt G40 597,890 298,171 Total liabilities and provisions 34,607,502 30,606,931 Equity G41 STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME, GROUP Share capital 1,000 1,000 Other paid-in capital 2,082,505 2,086,305 SEK thousand 2019 2018 Translation reserve 66,206 33,044 Profit for the year 1,216,310 1,143,415 Additional Tier 1 instruments 300,000 Retained earnings incl. profit for the year 4,691,535 4,228,192 Other comprehensive income that will be reclassified to profit Total equity 7,141,246 6,348,541 Translation differences for the year, foreign operations G41 33,162 85,787 Hedge accounting 1) -49,424 Total liabilities, provisions and equity 41,748,748 36,955,472 1) Hedge accounting, tax 10,873 Total other comprehensive income 1,249,472 1,190,651 See note G42 for information on pledged assets, contingent liabilites and commitments. Portion attributable to Resurs Holding AB shareholders 1,246,505 1,190,651 Portion attributable to additional Tier 1 capital holders 2,967 Comprehensive income for the year 1,249,472 1,190,651 1) Refers to a hedge of a net investment in a foreign subsidiary and consists of equity and capital contributions in yA Bank at the time of acquisition. Goodwill and profit since the acquisition are not subject to hedge accounting. Fair value changes of the hedging instruments impact taxable earnings and, in the Group, this tax effect is recognised in Comprehensive income for the year. The hedging of net investments in foreign operations above was terminated in connection with the merger of this business in November 2018. 58 RESURS HOLDING RESURS HOLDING 59 STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY CASH FLOW STATEMENT (INDIRECT METHOD), GROUP SEK thousand Share capital Other paid-in Hedge Translation Additional Retained Total equity SEK thousand Note 2019 2018 capital accounting reserve Tier 1 earnings incl. reserve instruments profit for the Operating activities year Operating profit 1,562,697 1,486,560 Initial equity at 1 January 2018 according to IAS 39 1,000 2,088,504 2,951 -17,143 0 4,113,518 6,188,830 of which interest received 3,306,307 3,061,912 Impact of revaluation of credit loss reserves due to IFRS 9 of which interest paid -383,662 -320,663 -438,681 -438,681 implementation Adjustment for non-cash items in operating profit 896,641 735,250 Impact of revaluation of credit loss reserves due to IFRS 9 99,940 99,940 Income taxes paid -287,503 -435,187 implementation tax effect Cash flow from operating activities before changes in operating assets and liabilities 2,171,835 1,786,623 Equity at 1 January 2018 according to IFRS 9 1,000 2,088,504 2,951 -17,143 0 3,774,777 5,850,089 Changes in operating assets and liabilities Initial equity at 1 January 2018 1,000 2,088,504 2,951 -17,143 0 3,774,777 5,850,089 Lending to the public -3,694,769 -4,477,411 Owner transactions Other assets -143,140 -707,013 Option premium received/repurchased -2,199 -2,199 Liabilities to credit institutions -55,000 149,900 Dividends according to General Meeting -360,000 -360,000 Deposits and borrowing from the public 3,623,920 2,456,827 Dividends according to Extraordinary General Meeting -330,000 -330,000 1) Acquisition of investment assets -3,238,044 -1,423,084 1) Divestment of investment assets 2,455,395 1,754,259 Profit for the year 1,143,415 1,143,415 Other liabilities -106,353 9,521 Other comprehensive income for the year -38,551 85,787 47,236 Cash flow from operating activities 1,013,844 -450,378 Equity at 31 December 2018 1,000 2,086,305 -35,600 68,644 0 4,228,192 6,348,541 Investing activities Initial equity at 1 January 2019 1,000 2,086,305 -35,600 68,644 0 4,228,192 6,348,541 Acquisition of non-current assets G28,G29 -103,966 -136,382 Owner transactions Divestment of non-current assets 1,343 2,154 Option premium received/repurchased -3,800 -3,800 Cash flow from investing activities -102,623 -134,228 Dividends according to General Meeting -390,000 -390,000 Dividends according to Extraordinary General Meeting -360,000 -360,000 Financing activities Dividends paid -750,000 -690,000 Issued additional Tier 1 instruments 300,000 300,000 Option premium repurchased -3,800 -2,199 Cost additional Tier 1 instruments -2,967 -2,967 Additional Tier 1 instruments 297,033 Profit for the year 1,216,310 1,216,310 Issued securities -213,887 2,205,138 Other comprehensive income for the year 33,162 33,162 Subordinated debt 298,950 -42,664 Equity at 31 December 2019 1,000 2,082,505 -35,600 101,806 300,000 4,691,535 7,141,246 Cash flow from financing activities -371,704 1,470,275 All equity is attributable to Parent Company shareholders except Tier 1 capital instruments. See note G41 regarding Issued additional Tier 1 instruments and translation reserve. Cash flow for the year 539,517 885,669 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year 2) 3,766,865 2,855,822 Exchange differences 43,370 25,374 2) Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year 4,349,752 3,766,865 Adjustment for non cash flow items in operating profit Credit losses G18 669,454 535,071 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment of tangible and intangible assets G16 87,642 49,039 Profit/loss tangible assets -269 244 Profit/loss on investment assets 1) -20,089 3,853 Change in provisions 50,476 75,337 Adjustment to interest paid/received 29,863 6,639 Currency effects 74,035 59,688 Other items that do not affect liquidity 5,529 5,379 Total adjustments for non cash flow items in operating profit 896,641 735,250 1) Investment assets are comprised of Bonds and other interest-bearing securities, Treasury and other bills eligible for refinancing, Subordinated loans and Shares and participations. 2) Liquid assets are comprised of Lending to credit institutions and Cash and balances at central banks. SEK Thousand 1 Jan 2019 Cash flow Non cash flow items 31 Dec 2019 Accrued acquisition costs Exchange rate differences Issued securities 7,832,186 -213,887 4,758 49,290 7,672,347 Subordinated debt 298171 298,950 769 597,890 Additional Tier 1 instruments 297,033 297,033 Total 8,130,357 382,096 5,527 49,290 8,567,270 SEK Thousand 1 Jan 2018 Cash flow Non cash flow items 31 Dec 2018 Change in opening balance Accrued acquisition costs Exchange rate differences Issued securities 5,597,271 2,205,138 7,207 22,570 7,832,186 Subordinated debt 340,044 -42,664 -3,000 1,171 2,620 298,171 Total 5,937,315 2,162,474 -3,000 8,378 25,190 8,130,357 60 RESURS HOLDING RESURS HOLDING 61 forward contracts, measured at fair value, are present value. For additional information, refer to the Notes liabilities, income and expenses. Estimates and amounts expected to be payable under a residual more extensive requirements on how insurance assumptions are based on historical experience and a value guarantee contracts are to be aggregated. The changes also recognised in the income statement as exchange-rate section on IFRS 16 Leases above. number of other factors that are considered the exercise price under a purchase option that the mean that analyses of profitability in insurance changes within the item Net income/expense from G1 GENERAL INFORMATION reasonable in the present circumstances. The results of these estimates and assumptions are used to lessee is reasonably certain to utilise penalty for terminating the lease, if the length of the contracts will be more detailed. The new standard is expected to have a major impact on disclosures in financial transactions. All lease contracts in which the Group is the lessor are classified as finance leases and are recognised in the determine the carrying amounts of assets and term reflects the assumption that the lessee will and the presentation of the financial reporting. The Goodwill in foreign currency attributable to the the Group’s balance sheet under Lending to the public at liabilities which are not readily apparent from other utilise this option. internal activities to analyse the effects of the new acquisition of a foreign operation is treated as assets an amount corresponding to the net investment in the Resurs Holding AB (publ), Corporate Identity Number sources. The actual outcome may differ from those Lease payments are discounted at the interest rate standard, internal training requirements and planning of the foreign operation and is translated at the lease. The lease payment, excluding cost of service, is 556898-2291, address Ekslingan 9, Väla Norra, estimates and assumptions. implicit if the rate can be determined, otherwise at the for the transition to the new standard when it comes closing rate. Exchange-rate gains and losses are recognised as repayment of the receivable and as Helsingborg, is a public limited liability company incremental borrowing rate. into force are under way and will be intensified in 2020 recognised in other comprehensive income. unearned financial income. The income is distributed headquartered in Helsingborg, Sweden. Resurs Holding The accounting estimates and assumptions are The right-of-use assets are measured at cost and and 2021 so that the Group is well-prepared to meet to obtain an even return on the net investment AB is owned to 28.9 per cent by Waldakt AB. Of the Assets and liabilities in subsidiaries and branches with recognised for each period. reviewed regularly. Changes in accounting estimates include the following: the changes required. remaining owners, no single owner holds 20 per cent or a functional currency other than Swedish crowns are are recognised in the period of the change if the the amount at which the lease liability was originally more. translated to the reporting currency using the change only affects that period. Changes are measured Consolidated financial statements Leases 2018 (IAS17) exchange-rate on the balance sheet date. The income Resurs Holding AB hereby submits the annual report recognised in the period of the change and future lease payments paid on at before the The consolidated financial statements include the statement is translated at the average exchange-rate Leases are classified as operating or finance leases periods if the change affects both. Assessments made commencement date, after any rewards received Parent Company and its subsidiaries. Subsidiaries are for each currency during the period. Emerged based on an assessment of the economic substance and the consolidated financial statements for by Group management and key sources of estimation when the lease was signed. entities over which the Parent Company exercises translation differences are reported in statement of of the lease. If the economic substance of the lease 1 January 2019 – 31 December 2019. uncertainty when applying IFRS that have a initial direct costs control. The Group controls an entity when the Group comprehensive income. Consequently, exchange-rate concerns the financing of a purchase or an asset, the The Group is comprised of the subsidiaries: Resurs significant impact on the financial statements are costs for restoring the asset to the condition is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns attributable to currency hedges of the investment in lease is classified as a finance lease. If the economic described in more detail in Note G46 Key estimates prescribed in the terms of the lease. through its power over the entity and has the ability the foreign companies are also transferred to substance of the lease is comparable to a rental Förvaltning Norden AB, Corporate Identity Number and assessments. to affect those returns through its power over the statement of comprehensive income, taking into agreement, the lease is classified as an operating 559067-0690, Resurs Bank AB, together with its The Resurs Holding Group has decided to apply the entity. A subsidiary is consolidated from the account deferred tax. This is subject to compliance lease. The key factor in assessing the economic subsidiaries, Corporate Identity Number 516401-0208 with the requirements for hedge accounting. Any New standards, amendments and interpretations that following exemptions in IFRS 16: acquisition date, which is the date when the Parent substance of the lease is whether it transfers and Solid Försäkrings AB, Corporate Identity Number inefficiencies in hedges are recognised in the income substantially all risks and economic benefits incidental 516401-8482. For the complete Group structure, see have been applied by the Group Payments for short-term leases and leases of a low Company obtains control. A subsidiary is statement within the item Net income/expense from value are expensed straight-line in profit or loss. deconsolidated from the date on which control to ownership of the asset from the lessor to the Note G43. financial transactions at fair value. The hedging of net When the financial statements for 2019 were Short-term leases are leases of 12 months or less. Low ceases. lessee. investments in foreign operations ceased in The regulatory consolidation (consolidated situation) prepared, the Group decided to change the value leases include IT and office equipment. connection with the merger of yA Bank in November include Resurs Bank Group and its parent company designation of “category” to “stage” for the threeThe Group is comprised of the subsidiaries, Resurs 2018. Revenue recognition Resurs Holding AB. step model based on changes in the credit quality of Options to extend or terminate a lease Förvaltning Norden AB, Resurs Bank AB and Solid The standard for Revenue from agreements with the financial assets, in accordance with IFRS 9. Refer Options to extend or terminate a lease are included in Försäkrings AB. The subsidiaries were consolidated Tier 1 capital customers, IFRS 15, is applied for various types of The consolidated financial statements and the annual to Note G18 for credit losses, Note G23 for lending to a number of the Group’s leases for premises. The using the acquisition method and, accordingly, the Tier 1 capital comprises Common Equity Tier 1 capital services which are mainly reported in the income report are presented in SEK thousand unless otherwise the public and Note G38 for other provisions. terms are used to maximise flexibility in managing carrying amount of subsidiary shares is eliminated and other Tier 1 capital. In December 2019, Resurs statement as commission income. IFRS 15 also applies indicated. leases. These options of providing the opportunity to against the subsidiaries’ equity at the time of Holding AB issued Additional Tier 1 Capital of a to certain services that are found in the item Other IFRS 16 Leases terminate a lease in advance can only be utilised by acquisition. nominal SEK 300 million. This Additional Tier 1 Capital income. Presentation and adoption of the annual report On 1 January 2019 the Group adopted IFRS 16 Leases, the Resurs Holding Group and not the lessors. When is subordinated debt that meets some of the The annual report was approved for issuance by the which replaced IAS 17. Under the new standard, leased such an option is utilised, a fee corresponding to six Purchase consideration for the acquisition of a requirements to be eligible as Tier 1 capital when Fee & commission income and expense Board of Directors on the 17 March 2020. The income assets and right-of-use assets (for example, rental months’ rent is often charged. The assessment of the subsidiary comprises the fair value of transferred calculating the amount of the capital base. The Fee & commission income and expense that are an statement and the balance sheet are subject to agreements for premises) are recognised in the use of options to extend or terminate a lease is assets, liabilities incurred by the Group to the former accounting principle chosen means that the Additional integral part of the effective interest rate are not approval by the Annual General Meeting on 29 April statement of financial position. reviewed if a significant event or change in owners of the acquired company, and the shares Tier 1 Capital is to be classified as equity and payment recognised under fee & commission income, but under 2020. For lessees, existing leases and right-of-use assets circumstances arises that impacts this assessment issued by the Group. Purchase consideration also to holders of these instruments, such as interest, is interest income. This is comprised of opening fees for are to be capitalised as assets and liabilities in the and the change is within the lessee’s control. includes the fair value of all assets and liabilities that recognised in equity. loans and fees for the provision of credit or other statement of financial position, with the associated are a result of a contingent consideration agreement. types of loan commitments for which it is likely that G2 ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES effect that the cost in profit or loss is divided between As of 1 of January 2019 the liability for unused leasing Identifiable assets acquired, and liabilities assumed in Segment reporting the credit facility will be utilised. Commission and fees depreciation in operating profit and interest expense commitment amounts SEK 107 million and for right-of a business combination are measured initially at their Operating segments are reported in a manner received on financial services are recognised in the Group in net financial items. The new standard does not use assets the amount is SEK 112 million. Equity will acquisition date fair values. For each acquisition, i.e. consistent with the Group’s internal reporting period during which the service is expected to be The consolidated financial statements were prepared represent any major changes for lessors, and leases not be affected by the transition to IFRS 16. on a transaction-by-transaction basis, the Group provided to the chief operating decision maker. The provided when the credit product does not have in accordance with International Financial Reporting are essentially to be recognised in accordance with decides whether to measure the non-controlling chief operating decision maker is the function different partial payment options. Opening fees for Standards (IFRS), issued by the International the current rules under IAS 17. The average margin loan rate as at 1 January 2019 is, interest (NCI) in the acquired company at fair value or responsible for allocating resources and assessing other credit products (comprising products with which Accounting Standards Board (IASB), as adopted by the 1.3 per sent. As at 31 December 2019, the liability for at the NCI’s proportionate share of the identifiable net performance of the operating segments. the customer has the option of switching between EU. Applicable sections of the Swedish Annual Resurs Holding Group as leessee unutilised lease obligations amounts to SEK 91 million assets of the acquired company. Acquisition-related different repayment plans) are recognised Accounts Act for Credit Institutions and Securities Resurs Holding leases mainly premises and vehicles. and for right-of-use assets SEK 95 million. The income costs are recognised as an expense when incurred. Interest income and interest expense immediately, since the credit maturity is shorter and Companies, the Swedish Financial Supervisory Leases are normally signed for fixed periods of about statement has been affected by interest expense, SEK Goodwill is initially measured as the difference Interest income and interest expense attributable to there is greater uncertainty about credit maturity. Authority’s regulations and general guidelines on five years for premises and three years for vehicles, 1,355 thousand and depreciation amounting SEK between the total purchase consideration plus any financial assets and liabilities are recognised using Annual Reports in Credit Institutions and Securities but there are the options of extensions and advance 29,576 thousand. The tax effect has a positive impact fair value of non-controlling interests, and the fair the effective interest method. The effective interest Fee & commission expenses are the costs of services Companies (FFFS 2008:25 and all applicable termination, which are described below. The terms are of SEK 147 thousand. The total impact on the financial value of identifiable assets acquired, and liabilities rate is the rate that equates the present value of all received, to the extent they are not considered to be amendments), and the Swedish Financial Reporting negotiated separately for each lease and contain a result is SEK 496 thousand. As at 31 December 2019 assumed. If the purchase consideration is lower than estimated future receipts or payments during the interest and are comprised of loan commission. Board’s recommendation RFR 1, Supplementary large number of contractual terms. the average margin loan rate amounted to 1,3 per the fair value of the acquired company’s net assets, anticipated fixed interest terms with the carrying Transaction costs, which are taken into account when Accounting Rules for Groups, were also applied. Unless cent. the difference is recognised directly through profit or amount of the receivable or liability. Interest income calculating the effective interest rate, reduce interest otherwise specified, the accounting principles The leasing agreements are reported in accordance loss. and interest expense include any transaction costs income. Fee & commission expense in the insurance described below were applied consistently to all with IFRS 16 as right-of-use together with a IFRS 16 is not assessed as having a material impact and other differences from the original value of the operations comprises remuneration to partners, retail periods presented in the Group’s financial statements. corresponding liability to the lessor on the day that on the Group’s financial result and performance In the consolidated financial statements, untaxed asset or liability. and insurance brokers for the sale of insurance the leased assets become available for use by the measures. reserves are divided into two parts, a tax component products. Such fee & commission expense are Basis of preparation Group. The right-of-use and lease liability are (22 per cent) and a component that is recognised in Interest income and interest expense presented in recognised in the financial statements on a separate Group management has considered the development recognised on the lines Property, plant & equipment New standards, amendments and interpretations that equity (78 per cent). Intra-Group transactions, profit or loss comprise: line under total operating income. and information regarding the Group’s key accounting and Other liabilities. Each lease payment is distributed have not yet been applied by the Group. balance-sheet items and income and costs for intraInterest on financial assets and liabilities measured principles and has defined its position on the choice between depreciation of liability and interest expense. A number of new or amended IFRSs have been Group transactions are eliminated. Gains and losses at amortised cost using the effective interest method, Dividend income and application of these principles. The Group’s assets The interest expense is distributed over the lease term published, but have not yet taken effect, as at the resulting from intra-Group transactions and which are including interest on doubtful receivables. Dividend income is recognised when the right to and liabilities are measured at historical cost. so that each reporting period is charged with an preparation of this annual report on 31 December recognised as assets are eliminated in their entirety. Interest on financial assets and liabilities at fair receive payment is established. Financial assets and liabilities are measured at amount equivalent to a fixed interest rate for the 2019. There are no plans for these new or amended The accounting principles for subsidiaries have been value through profit or loss. amortised cost, apart from certain assets and liability recognised for each period. The right-of-use IFRSs to be applied in advance. The anticipated changed where necessary to ensure consistent Net income/expense from financial transactions liabilities which are measured at fair value through asset is depreciated straight-line over the identified effects on the financial statements of the application application of the Group’s principles. Leases and recognition of lease income The item net income/expense from financial profit or loss. Financial assets and liabilities measured right-of-use period. of the following new or amended IFRSs are set forth Leases agreements where the Group is lessee are transactions includes realised and unrealised changes at fair value through profit or loss comprise: In the cash flow statement payments for the principal below. No other new or amended IFRSs approved by Foreign currency recognised in accordance with IFRS 16 as right-of-use in value arising from financial transactions. Bonds and other interest-bearing securities, portion of the lease liability are presented within IASB as at 31 December 2019 are expected to have The Group uses the Swedish crowns as presentation together with a corresponding liability to the lessor on including subordinated loans financing activities and payments for the interest any impact on the consolidated financial statements. Currency. Functional currency refers to the currency Net income/expense consists of: the day that the leased assets become available for Shares and participations capital gains from financial assets at fair value portion are presented within operating activities. that is primarily used in a business’s cash flows. The use by the Group. The right-of-use and lease liability Derivatives IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts (not approved by the EU) through profit or loss functional currency is determined within the Group are recognised as property, plant & equipment and Treasury and other bills eligible for refinancing unrealised changes in value from financial assets at Assets and liabilities arising on leases are initially The final standard that will replace the standard based on each individual business's primary economic other liabilities, respectively. Each lease payment is fair value through profit or loss recognised at present value. Lease liabilities include previously known as IFRS 4 (Phase II) was published in environment The income statement is translated distributed between depreciation of liability and realised and unrealised changes in the value of Judgements and estimates in the financial the present value of the following lease payments. May 2017. It is scheduled to take effect on 1 January using the average rate for the period in which the interest expense. The interest expense is distributed derivative instruments that are economic hedging statements fixed payments (including in-substance fixed 2022, but it is possible that it will be postponed until 1 transaction arise. Monetary assets and liabilities in over the lease term so that each reporting period is instruments but do not qualify for hedge accounting Preparation of financial statements in compliance payments), less incentives January 2023. The standard entails a new basis for the foreign currency together with non-monetary assets charged with an amount equivalent to a fixed interest exchange-rate differences with IFRS requires Group management to make variable lease payments that depend on an index or recognition and measurement of insurance contracts and liabilities measured at fair value are translated rate for the liability recognised for each period. The Ineffective part of the hedge accounting in the fair judgements, accounting estimates and assumptions rate, initially measured using the index or rates on the with the aim of enhancing transparency and reducing into the closing rate at the balance sheet day. All right-of-use asset is depreciated straight-line over value hedge. that affect the application of the accounting commencement date differences in the recognition of insurance contracts. gains and losses arising from currency translation of the identified right-of-use period. Assets and principles and the carrying amounts of assets, A major change in the new standard is clearer and monetary items, including the currency component of liabilities arising on leases are initially recognised at GRI 102-3 62 RESURS HOLDING RESURS HOLDING 63 Premium income before the normal retirement date and has a detailed Financial instruments Financial assets at fair value the subsidiary’s equity at the acquisition date, other The assessment of ECL should reflect: An objective been exposed to increased credit risk, which is why Premium income refers to the compensation an formal plan for termination. through profit or loss contributions after the acquisition and deductions for and a probability-weighted amount determined lending to credit institutions has not been impaired. insurance company receives from the policy holder for If a financial asset does not meet the conditions dividends paid. The portion of gains or losses on a through the evaluation of a number of potential accepting the transfer of insurance risk. Premium Recognition of assets and liabilities for measurement at amortised cost or for hedging instrument that is deemed to be an effective outcomes; with consideration given to money’s time For provisions for credit losses pertaining to leasing in income is recognised through profit or loss when the Assets are defined as resources controlled by the measurement at fair value through other hedge is recognised in other comprehensive income. value and to all reasonable and verifiable information factoring, an individual assessment is made as to risk transfer commences in accordance with the company as a result of past events and which are comprehensive income, it must be valued available on the reporting date without unreasonable whether a provision is to be established or impairment Profit or loss attributable to the ineffective portion is insurance contract. If the contracted premium for the likely to generate future economic benefits. These are at fair value through profit or loss. The category expense or exertion. The assessment also take into (leased equipment) is to be recognised. Testing for recognised through profit or loss. The hedging of net account historical, current and forecasts for future these contractual groups is performed only at insurance period is divided into several sub-amounts, recognised in the statement of financial position when comprises two sub-categories, the mandatory and the investments in foreign operations ceased in Fair Value Option. In the first category, we have economic conditions. individual level since no group is deemed to meet the the entire premium is nevertheless recognised from it is probable that future economic benefits connection with the merger of yA Bank in November derivatives and financial instruments held for trading. requirements for being treated as a homogeneous the start of the period. associated with the asset will flow to the Group and 2018. For foreign operations carried out in the form of The calculation of credit losses is based on expected group. A provision or impairment is reversed when when the value/cost of the resource can be measured a branch, the Group's treasury function manages the credit losses under IFRS 9 and will be calculated by there is verifying information that the impairment Premium earned reliably. Unrealised and realised changes in the fair net investment in each currency and reduces currency multiplying the PD with the Exposure at Default (EAD) requirement no longer exists. Confirmed credit losses value of financial instruments that are measured The portion of premium income that is attributable to risk through other positions in the same currency and multiplied by the Loss Given Default (LGD). This means include losses for which the amounts are determined at fair value through profit or loss are recognised the accounting period is recognised as premiums Liabilities are current obligations arising from past under Net income/expense from financial through currency derivatives. Translation differences that the calculation of expected credit losses is based through bankruptcy, settlements, a statement from events, the settlement of which is expected to result earned. The portion of premium income from the transactions. are recognised through profit or loss. Accumulated on the bank’s total lending volumes, including credits the enforcement authority or exemption from insurance contract that pertains to periods after the in an outflow of resources from the Group. A liability is gains and losses in equity are recognised through payment granted in some other way. without any increased credit risk. closing date is reserved in the premium reserve in the recognised in the statement of financial position when The second measurement category includes equity profit or loss when the foreign operations are fully or balance sheet. Provisions to the premium reserve are it is probable that an outflow of resources from the partly divested. Loan commitments and unutilised credit index bonds and structured products, which contain The impairment model includes a three-stage model normally calculated by allocating premium income Group will result from the settlement of a present The Group has no outstanding loan commitments. both an interest bearing and a derivative component based on changes in the credit quality of financial strictly based on the term of the underlying insurance obligation and the amount at which the settlement All unutilised credit facilities granted are terminable The Group has decided to include equity index bonds Methods of determining fair value assets. Under this three-stage model, assets are contract. Risk-adjusted allocation – meaning in will take place can be measured reliably. with immediate effect to the extent allowed under the and structured products in the category Fair Value Financial instruments listed on an active market divided into three different stages depending on how Swedish Consumer Credit Act. Unutilised credit is relation to expected claims outcome – takes place for Option. The fair value of financial instruments listed on an credit risk has changed since the asset was initially recognised as a commitment. certain insurance products, particularly those with Financial instruments active market is determined on the basis of the recognised in the balance sheet. Stage 1 encompasses terms of more than one year. Financial instruments recognised under assets in the asset’s listed bid price on the closing date without In the balance sheet, these are represented by the assets for which there has not been a significant Intangible assets statement of financial position include treasury and additions for transaction costs (for example, items: Treasury and other bills eligible for refinancing, increase in credit risk, stage 2 encompasses assets for Goodwill Ceded reinsurance other bills eligible for refinancing, loan receivables, brokerage) at the time of acquisition. A financial Bonds and other interest-bearing securities, which there has been a significant increase in credit Goodwill arises on the acquisition of subsidiaries and Premiums for ceded reinsurance comprise amounts bonds and other interest-bearing securities, instrument is deemed to be listed on an active market risk, while stage 3 encompasses defaulted assets, Subordinated loans, Shares and participations and other business combinations and is the amount by paid during the financial year or amounts recognised subordinated loans, other assets, and derivatives. The if listed prices are readily available from a stock That is assets which have been transferred to debt Derivatives. which the purchase consideration exceeds the as a liability to insurance companies that assumed heading liabilities, provisions and equity includes exchange, dealer, broker, trade association, pricing collection or are past due 90 days or more. participation in the fair value of the identifiable reinsurance according to signed reinsurance loans, issued securities, subordinated debt, service or regulatory agency and those prices Financial instruments Financial assets measured at assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the contracts, including portfolio premiums. The premiums derivatives and trade payables. amortised cost represent actual and regularly occurring market The provision of expected credit losses for assets is acquired company or business plus the fair value of are allocated so that the cost is distributed to the Loan receivables purchased receivables and accounts transactions on commercial terms. Any future governed by the category to which the assets belong. the non-controlling influence in the acquired period to which the insurance cover pertains. Ceded Financial instruments Recognition in and receivable are financial assets that are not derivative transaction costs on disposal are not taken into Provisions are made under stage 1 for expected credit company. For the purpose of impairment testing, reinsurance is recognised in the net amount in the derecognition from the statement of financial instruments, that have fixed or fixable payments and consideration. The fair value of financial liabilities is losses within 12 months, while provisions for stage 2 goodwill acquired in a business combination is financial statements under premiums earned. position that are not listed on an active market. These based on the quoted selling price. and 3 are made for expected credit losses under the allocated to cash-generating units or groups of cashA financial asset or financial liability is recognised in receivables are represented by the balance sheet Instruments that are listed on an active market are full lifetime of the assets. generating units that are expected to benefit from Insurance compensation the statement of financial position when the Group items Cash and balances at central banks, Lending to recognised under Treasury and other bills eligible for synergies Total insurance compensation includes insurance becomes a party under the instrument’s contractual credit institutions, Lending to the public, Other assets refinancing, Bonds and other interest-bearing A central factor impacting the amount of expected and accrued income. These assets are measured at from the acquisition. Each unit or group of units to compensation paid during the period, changes in terms. Financial assets are derecognised from the securities, Subordinated debt and Shares and credit losses is the rule governing the transfer of an which goodwill has been allocated represents the provisions for claims outstanding and claimsbalance sheet when the contractual rights to the cash amortised cost. Amortised cost is calculated based on participations. asset between stage 1 and 2. The Group makes use of the effective interest rate used at initial recognition. lowest adjustment expenses. Insurance compensation paid flows deriving from the asset cease or when all change in the lifetime Probability of Default (PD) to level in the Group at which the goodwill in question is includes payments to policy holders during under significant risks and benefits associated with the Financial instruments not listed on an determine the significant increase in risk, with the Accounts receivable and loan receivables are monitored for internal control purposes. Goodwill is financial year based on insurance contracts or assets are transferred to another party. This also active market change assessed by a combination of absolute and recognised at the amounts expected to be received, in tested for impairment annually or more frequently if incurred insurance claims, regardless of when the applies to part of a financial asset. A financial liability If the market for a financial instrument is not active, relative changes in the lifetime PD. Furthermore, all accordance to IFRS 9. Purchased receivables, events or changes in circumstances indicate possible claim occurred. is derecognised when the contractual obligation is the fair value is determined by applying various credits for which payments are more than 30 days late impairment. The carrying amount of goodwill is comprised of a portfolio of non-performing consumer discharged or extinguished in some other way. This measurement techniques that are based on market are attributed to stage 2, regardless of whether or not compared with its recoverable amount, which is the loans, were purchased at a price significantly lower Other operating income also applies to part of a financial liability. A financial data as far as possible. The fair value of currency there is a significant increase in risk. than the nominal value. Recognition follows the higher of value in use and fair value less selling The item primarily comprises monitoring fees and asset and a financial liability may be offset and the forwards is calculated by discounting the difference effective interest model, with the carrying amount of expenses. Any impairment is recognised as an withdrawal fees and originate from Lending to the net amount recognised in the statement of financial between the contracted forward rate and the forward To determine whether there is a significant increase in the portfolio corresponding to the present value of expense immediately and is not reversed. public position only when there is a legally enforceable right rate that can be utilised on the closing date for the risk, and thus a transfer to stage 2, the bank starts by future cash flows, discounted using the effective to offset the recognised amounts and the intention is remaining contract period. Discounting is at a riskassessing the change in the expected life PD of the interest rate applicable on initial acquisition of the Other intangible assets General administrative expenses either to settle on a net basis, or to simultaneously free interest rate based on government bonds. The credit. In order for there to be a significant increase in Other intangible assets have finite useful lives and are portfolio, based on the relationship between cost and General administrative expenses include personnel realise the asset and settle the liability. Acquisitions fair value of interest swaps is based on discounting risk, a change in start PD must amount to the total of recognised at cost less accumulated amortisation. the projected cash flows at the time of acquisition. expenses, postage, communication and notification and divestments of financial assets are recognised on anticipated future cash flows in accordance with a given threshold and a percentage change in the The projected cash flows are regularly reviewed during They are amortised on a straight-line basis to costs, IT costs, consulting fees, premises costs and the trade date, the date on which the Group commits contractual terms and maturities using the market start PD. the year and updated to reflect collection results, distribute the cost over their 4-5 year estimated certain other costs related to the business itself to acquire or divest the asset. rate. The fair value of non-derivative financial agreements on repayment plans signed with debtors useful life. In connection to the merger of yA Bank instruments is based on future cash flows and current In addition, the bank also uses an absolute change in and macroeconomic information. All updated additional other intangible assets referring to Employee benefits Loan receivables are recognised in the statement of market rates on the closing date. The discount rate PD that entails that if a lifetime PD increases by a information is gathered and processed in the Group's customer relations were added. The amortisation Personnel expenses financial position when the loan amount is paid to the used reflects market-based interest rates for similar given percentage point, which varies depending on models according to IFRS 9. period for these are 10-15 year. Personnel expenses, such as salaries, payroll borrower. instruments on the closing date. Information about product category, then it is attributable to stage 2. overhead and variable remuneration, are recognised fair value recognised in the statement of financial Financial instruments Financial liabilities at fair Other intangible assets include in-house development through profit or loss during the period in which the Financial instruments Classification and position based on a measurement technique is Alongside the significant PD changes described value through profit or loss of IT software. Maintenance costs for IT software are employee rendered service to the Group. A provision measurement provided in Note G44 Financial instruments. The Group above, the bank uses a “back stop,” meaning that a If a financial liability does not meet the conditions expensed as incurred. Development costs directly for variable remuneration is recognised when the In accordance with IFRS 9, all financial assets measures derivatives at fair value solely based on credit that is between 30 and 90 days past due is for measurement at amortised cost or for attributable to the development of software products Group has a legal or constructive obligation to make are allocated to measurement categories: Amortised input data that is directly or indirectly observable on attributable to stage 2 even if there is no significant measurement at fair value through other controlled by the Group are recognised as intangible such payments as a result of the services in question cost, Fair value through other comprehensive income the market. Instruments that are not listed on an increase in PD. comprehensive income, it must be valued at fair value assets when the following criteria are met: having been rendered by the employees, and when the or Fair value through profit or loss. Profit or loss is active market are recognised under Lending to credit through profit or loss. The category comprises two -It is technically feasible to complete the software so amount can be measured reliably. then divided into two sub-categories, mandatory and institutions, The calculation of the lifetime for credit cards and sub-categories, the mandatory and the Fair Value that it can be utilised, Fair Value Option (FVO). Financial instruments in the Deposits and lending from the public, Derivatives and other revolving credits is based on predictive models Option. In the balance sheet the mandatory category It is the company’s intention to complete and utilise Pensions mandatory category, are continously valued to fair Other assets and liabilities. about the future limit use and statistical repayment includes Derivatives. Both unrealised and realised the software, The Group primarily has defined contribution pension value with the changes reported in profit or loss. plans. The models are based on internal historical data There are opportunities to utilise the software, changes in the fair value are recognised under Net plans, which are recognised through profit or loss in Credit losses and impairment of financial assets where different models are used for homogeneous income/expense from financial transactions. The way in which the software will generate probable the period during which the employee rendered Financial instruments are initially measured at their Credit losses comprise confirmed credit losses during groups of credits with similar explanatory variables. future economic benefits can be demonstrated, service to the Group. Defined contribution plans are fair value plus transaction costs. Transaction costs the year less amounts received for previous years’ Financial instruments Liabilities at amortised cost Adequate technical, economic and other resources plans under which the Group pays fixed contributions are direct costs attributable to the acquisition or issue confirmed credit losses and changes in the provision Calculations of expected credit losses under IFRS 9 When liabilities arise, these are valued at amortised are available to complete the development and to into a separate legal entity. The Group has no legal or of the financial asset or financial liability. Derivatives for expected credit losses. Loans are recognised net include forward-looking information based on the cost and accrued interest expenses are accrued on an utilise the intangible asset, and constructive obligation to pay further contributions if and instruments classified as financial assets and of confirmed credit losses and the provision for macroeconomic outlook. The Group has decided to ongoing basis according to the effective interest The expenditure associated with the intangible asset the legal entity does not hold sufficient assets to pay financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss expected credit losses (ECL) base the forward-looking calculations on a method. In the balance sheet the liabilities are during its development can be measured reliably. all employee benefits relating to employee service in are measured at fair value, excluding transaction macroeconomic variable (unemployment level) that represented by the balance sheet items Liabilities to Completed development projects are recognised at the current and prior periods. costs. A financial instrument is classified on initial In accordance to IFRS 9, the Group assesses expected from a historical perspective has proven to correlate credit institutions, Deposits and borrowing from the the costs incurred, less accumulated amortisation and recognition according to the purpose for which it was credit losses together with future-oriented factors for well with changes in the Group’s credit losses and public, Issued securities, Subordinated debts, Other impairment. Termination benefits acquired. Classification determines how a financial all financial instruments, within the category of partly on an evaluated effect of the regulatory liabilities and Accrued expenses. Termination benefits are only recognised if the Group instrument is measured subsequent to initial amortised cost. Expected balance from loan changes in Norway. Hedging of net investments in foreign operations Property, plant & equipment is demonstrably committed, without realistic recognition, as described below. commitments are also considered. The Group reports The Group hedges its net investments in foreign Items of property, plant & equipment are recognised possibility of withdrawal, to terminate employment the possible losses on each reporting occasion. The lending to credit institutions are deemed to have at cost less accumulated depreciation. Cost includes subsidiaries. The hedged item comprises the sum of very low credit risk and are not considered to have expenses directly attributable to the acquisition of an 64 RESURS HOLDING RESURS HOLDING 65 asset. Subsequent expenditure is added to the asset’s flows using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects company pays tax in Sweden on its foreign income, a carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset current market assessments of the time value of deduction is normally allowed for the foreign tax paid, G3 RISK MANAGEMENT (whichever is more suitable) only when it is probable The Group is exposed to a number of risks that are The Board of each Group company has established a The borrower’s anticipated repayment capacity is the money and, if applicable, the risks specific to the in order to avoid double taxation. that future economic benefits associated with the typical for companies within the industry that are of risk propensity for specific risks based on qualitative crucial credit assessment component in every credit liability. Current tax is the amount of income tax payable or asset will flow to the Group and the cost of the item a similar size, with a corresponding product range and quantitative valuations. lending decision. The Group follows a policy, adopted by recoverable for the current year, calculated using tax can be measured reliably. The carrying amount of the and that operate within the same geographical the Board, that specifies the framework for the Technical provisions rates applicable on the closing date, and includes any replaced component is derecognised from the markets. The Group generally has a low risk tolerance Risk propensity indicates the level of risk that the operations’ credit strategy, credit risk management, Technical provisions are based on estimates made adjustments relating to prior periods. statement of financial position. All other types of and employs a cautious approach concerning the Group can accept in order to achieve its strategic credit risk reporting and credit rules to be applied in credit and assumptions regarding future claim costs, which repair and maintenance are recognised as an expense risks that arise in its operations and prioritises objectives. These risk limits are well-defined assessment. It is in the Group’s interest that the Group’s entails that there is always an element of uncertainty Deferred tax is based on temporary differences through profit and loss in the period in which they identifying and preventing risk. boundaries that regulate the desired risk exposure credit lending does not entail that the borrower takes arise. associated with estimates. Estimates are based on between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities and are applicable, for example, in defining levels unnecessary risk. Borrowers’ short and long-term historic statistics regarding previous claims outcomes and their corresponding tax bases. Deferred tax The Group’s ability to manage risks and effectively within the various risk categories. The Group has a repayment capacity is determined based on their Depreciation of property, plant & equipment for the that are available when the annual accounts are assets on deductible temporary differences and tax maintain capital is crucial to its profitability. Various standardised process for risk identification, risk financial situation and resilience. Group’s own use is applied on a straight-line basis in prepared. The uncertainty associated with estimates loss carryforwards are only recognised to the extent it types of risks arise in the operations. The following assessment and risk reporting and has implemented order to allocate cost or revalued amount down to is generally greater when estimating new insurance is probable they will be utilised. main categories of risk have been identified and can this processes throughout the operations. The Group The Group endeavours to ensure a highly diversified residual value over the estimated useful life. Assets portfolios. Estimates of technical provisions include be actualised in different ways for each company. companies work actively on creating a high level of credit portfolio with pricing based on risk exposure are depreciated over their estimated useful life of 3-5 the following: amount of unpaid claims, claims trends, Deferred tax assets and tax liabilities are offset when Credit risks (including those attributable to the risk awareness and efficient risk management. Risk through a broad base of customers with relatively low years from the date of acquisition. In 2019, changes in legislation, legal judgements and the there is a legally enforceable right to offset current credit portfolio, liquidity and investment portfolio, management is based on the view of three lines of exposure amounts per customer. depreciation on capitalised property, plant & general economic climate. tax assets against current liabilities and when credit-related concentration risks and counterparty defence where the combination of these lines will equipment according to IFRS 16 was added. For more deferred tax assets and liabilities relate to income risks) ensure efficient risk management in the day-to-day To maintain a highly diversified credit portfolio with a information about the impact on the consolidated Provision for unearned premiums and unexpired risks taxes levied by the same tax authority, on either the Market risks (interest rate risk, currency risk and operations. balanced risk profile and to strike a favourable balance income statement and balance sheet, refer to the In the statement of financial position, this item same or different taxable entities, where there is an other exchange risks) between risk and return, the Group works actively on above section on IFRS 16 Leases. comprises provisions corresponding to the company’s intention to settle on a net basis. Liquidity risks The first line of defence is at the operational level. understanding borrowers’ prerequisites and commitments for insurance cases, administration Operational risks (including process risks, personnel Operational personnel have the best opportunity to macroeconomic changes that could potentially impact Residual values and useful lives of property, plant & costs and other expenses for the remainder of the Contingent liabilities risks, IT and systemic risks and external risks) identify, monitor and control specific risks arising in the risk profile. The Group continuously monitors equipment are reviewed on each closing date and contract period for ongoing insurance contracts. A contingent liability is recognised when a possible Other business risks (including strategic risks, the day-to-day operations. borrowers’ repayment capacity. Risks are proactively adjusted if necessary. The carrying amount of an Provision for unearned premiums are calculated obligation may arise based on past events and the business risks, cyclical risks and reputational risks) managed by performing continuous analyses of the credit asset is also immediately impaired to its recoverable individually for each insurance contract. Premiums are existence of the liability will be confirmed by the Insurance risks (only relevant to the insurance The second line of defence comprises the control portfolio to ascertain whether it will be impacted by amount if the asset’s carrying amount exceeds its earned using experience-based factors calculated occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more operations). function in each Group company, Compliance and future macroeconomic changes. These analyses are used, estimated recoverable amount. The recoverable based on when claim and operating costs arise in an uncertain future events, or when there is an obligation Risk Control, which independently and autonomously for example, as supporting material for governance and amount refers to either the net selling price or the insurance period. This means that earnings are not that is not recognised as a liability or provision Credit risks, liquidity risks and operational risks that controls the Group’s operations and reports regularly, management of the Group’s banking operations. value in use, whichever is higher. The recoverable shown pro rata for all products. A large part of the because it is not probable that an outflow of arise within the framework of its banking operations both in writing and verbally, to the respective CEO, amount is calculated as soon as there is an indication portfolio has a term of more than one year. resources will be required to settle the obligation. are deemed to comprise the most significant risks for board and certain board committees. Credit risks in investments that the carrying amount is too high. The carrying the Group. Insurance risk is the most significant risk Credit risks in investments arise in the banking amount of property, plant and equipment is Compared with strictly straight-line recognition of Cash flow statement in the insurance operations. The third line of defence is an independent internal operations’ liquidity portfolio that partly comprises a derecognised from the statement of financial income earnings, costs during the first year of the insurance The cash flow statement for the Group and the Parent audit function. This function regularly examines the liquidity reserve that is to serve as a separate reserve for on disposal, divestment or when no future economic contract are assumed to be lower than for the Company are prepared in accordance with the indirect The risk management framework is an integrated part Group’s operations, including activities in the first high quality liquid assets, and partly other liquidity that is benefits are expected from its use or remainder of the contract period, based on a one-year method. Recognised cash flows only include of its operations and aligns the Group’s strategic and second lines of defence, to evaluate that these not related to the liquidity reserve. The liquidity portfolio disposal/divestment. Gains or losses arising from the guarantee period for the products encompassed by transactions involving cash inflows and outflows. Cash objectives with its risk management. The risk lines of defence are adequately managed from a risk comprises bank balances and investments in interestdisposal/divestment of property, plant and equipment the insurance policies. transactions are classified under operating activities, management framework includes the Group’s perspective. The internal audit function reports bearing securities. In the insurance operations, credit risks comprise the difference between the sales price and investing activities and financing activities. Cash and functions, strategies, processes, procedures, policies, regularly to the Board, both in writing and verbally. arise in the investment portfolio that comprises bank the asset’s carrying amount less direct selling A provision is made for unexpired risks if the premium balances at central banks including Lending to credit risk propensity, risk indicators, risk limits, risk balances and investments in interest-bearing securities expenses. level is deemed to be insufficient to cover expected institutions. mandates, and control and reporting procedures CREDIT RISK and investments in equities. To reduce credit risks in claim costs and operating costs. The change for the necessary for identifying, measuring, monitoring, Credit risk is the risk of a counterparty or debtor investments, the Group follows the established policies of Impairment of non-financial assets period in the provision for unearned premiums and Repossessed assets managing and reporting risks. failing to fulfil its contractual obligations and the risk each Group company which regulate, among other things, Assets that have an indefinite useful life, such as unexpired risks is recognised through profit or loss. Assets repossessed to safeguard claims are that pledged collateral does not cover claims. The the type of investment and the limits applicable to each goodwill or intangible assets not ready for use, are not Changes attributable to the translation of the recognised in the statement of financial position In order to balance the Group’s risk exposure and to Group’s credit risks are attributable to the credit individual counterparty. amortised but are tested annually for impairment. provision items to the exchange-rate on the closing together with similar assets already held by the Group. limit and control risks, the Group companies have portfolio, investments and derivative instruments. Assets are tested for impairment whenever events or date are recognised as exchange-rate gains or All assets taken over to safeguard claims are initially produced policies in a 3-tiered hierarchy. External COUNTERPARTY RISKS changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying exchange-rate losses. measured at fair value, and any difference between regulatory frameworks and policies comprise the The Group’s credit exposure primarily comprises Credit risk exposure in financial instruments is named the loan’s carrying amount and the fair value of the basis for the Group’s control environment and credit risks that arise in connection with credit counterparty risk and refers to the risk that the amount may not be recoverable. An impairment loss is repossessed asset is recognised under Credit losses, management of risks that arise in the operations. The lending and entail the risk of incurring a loss due to counterparty will be unable to fulfil its contractual taken for the amount whereby the carrying amount of Costs for insurance contracts Direct costs that have a distinct link to signed net. Fair value at the reporting date is the asset’s cost policies also outline the delegation of authorities borrowers’ failure to meet their payment obligations obligations or will choose not to fulfil its obligations in the the asset exceeds recoverable amount. The insurance contracts are recognised as assets (gross). or amortised cost, whichever is applicable. within specific areas of risk. for various reasons. Credit risk exposure also includes future pursuant to the same or similar conditions. Since a recoverable amount is the higher of the asset’s fair Direct costs mainly refer to fee & commission expense In subsequent periods, assets taken over to safeguard risks related to the concentration of the credit large share of the banking operations’ liabilities are in SEK value less selling expenses and its value in use. In claims are measured in accordance with the The board of each Group company stipulates the risk portfolio. Concentration risks are measured based on and significant assets are denominated in NOK, EUR and impairment testing, assets are grouped at the lowest and are subsequently allocated over the term of the insurance contract. measurement principles for the asset class. Income management policies. A person is appointed in each the level of exposure to individual DKK, counterparty risks arise when the Group hedges its level for which there are separate identifiable cash and expenses related to repossessed assets are organisation to take responsibility for each policy counterparties/customers, industries and regions. currency exposures. The banking operations manage flows (cash-generating units). For assets other than Taxes allocated in the same way as other income and who regularly reviews the policy, manages reporting counterparty risk by signing agreements on derivative goodwill that were previously impaired, a test for Income tax consists of current tax and deferred tax. expenses in profit or loss. and proposes necessary adjustments to it. Credit risks in the credit portfolio instruments with several different financial reversal is performed every closing date. Income taxes are recognised through profit or loss The Group is exposed to credit risks in the credit counterparties. Trading in derivative instruments in the except in cases where the underlying transaction is As of 31 December 2019, the value of property Guidelines comprising the level under policies are portfolio. Credit risks in the credit portfolio include banking operations is governed by ISDAs and the Provisions determined by the CEO or the person responsible for the risk of borrowers failing to meet their payment collateral by CSA agreements. Derivative instruments can A provision is recognised in the statement of financial recognised directly in other comprehensive income or repossessed to safeguard claims amounted to SEK 0. equity. the specific risk area that the guidelines regulate in obligations. Responsible credit lending is a be used in the insurance operations to manage risks in position when there is a present obligation (legal or the specific Group company. These guidelines contain prerequisite for well-functioning banking operations. the investment portfolio. Derivative instruments in the constructive) due to a past event and it is probable more detailed information about risk management in The Group’s credit lending is characterised by insurance operations are used to a minor extent and that an outflow of financial resources will be required The Group’s foreign branch offices in Norway, Denmark, Finland and Switzerland are taxed on their a specific risk area. At the operational level, company ambitious objectives and goals in terms of ethics, trading is governed by ISDAs. to settle the obligation, and the amount of the managers establish the procedures that apply for quality and control. Credit risks are to identify and obligation can be reliably estimated. Where the effect income in their own countries. In Sweden, the Group is specific groups of employees. The procedures are assess borrowers’ payment capacity before credits of the time value of money is material, provisions are liable to pay tax on all its income, including earnings more detailed in terms of the management of specific are granted. An internally developed risk calculated by discounting anticipated future cash from its foreign branch offices. To the extent that the work duties in the daily operations. classification tool is in place to assist with credit lending. Risk propensity, risk indicators and risk limits are regularly monitored and reported to the Board. 66 RESURS HOLDING GRI 102-15 RESURS HOLDING 67 CREDIT RISK EXPOSURE, GROSS AND NET CREDIT QUALITY, LOAN AND LEASE RECEIVABLES 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 31/12/2019 Credit risk Impairexposure, ments Credit risk ImpairValue of Credit risk Credit risk ImpairValue of Credit risk gross exposure, ments collateral exposure, exposure, gross ments collateral exposure, Lending to the public, retail customers gross net net Cash and balances at central banks Performing AAA/Aaa 65,885 65,885 63,215 63,215 Stage 1 23,343,497 -170,988 AA+/Aa1 154,914 154,914 0 Stage 2 5,187,002 -419,305 Non-performing Total cash and balances at central banks 220,799 0 0 220,799 63,215 0 0 63,215 Stage 3 5,221,067 -2,236,322 Treasury and other bills eligible for refinancing Total lending to the public, retail customers 33,751,566 -2,826,615 AAA/Aaa 529,316 529,316 401,033 401,033 AA+/Aa1 929,577 929,577 557,976 557,976 Lending to the public, corporate customers Unrated 1) 299,942 299,942 50,012 50,012 Total treasury and other bills eligible for Performing 1,758,835 0 0 1,758,835 1,009,021 0 0 1,009,021 refinancing Stage 1 344,188 -3,615 Lending to credit institutions Stage 2 72,499 -2,625 AA+/Aa1 26,701 26,701 Non-performing AA-/Aa3 2,410,823 2,410,823 1,413,231 1,413,231 Stage 3 55,174 -45,785 A+/A1 769,301 769,301 1,301,910 1,301,910 Total lending to the public, corporate customers 471,861 -52,025 A/A2 816,914 816,914 856,947 856,947 Unrated 2) 131,915 131,915 104,861 104,861 Total lending to the public 34,223,427 -2,878,640 Total lending to credit institutions 4,128,953 0 0 4,128,953 3,703,650 0 0 3,703,650 Lending to the public 31/12/2018 Credit risk ImpairLending to the public Retail 33,751,566 -2,826,615 30,924,951 30,139,006 -2,551,266 27,587,740 exposure, ments Lending to the public Corporate 471,861 -52,025 -172,948 246,888 405,607 -36,771 -144,097 224,739 gross Total lending to the public 34,223,427 -2,878,640 -172,948 31,171,839 30,544,613 -2,588,037 -144,097 27,812,479 Lending to the public, retail customers Bonds Performing AAA/Aaa 902,119 902,119 869,657 869,657 Stage 1 22,198,221 -165,419 A+/A1 6,053 6,053 6,062 6,062 Stage 2 3,326,966 -312,054 A/A2 0 20,510 20,510 Non-performing A-/A3 22,212 22,212 122,114 122,114 Stage 3 4,613,819 -2,073,793 BBB+/Baa1 14,183 14,183 13,829 13,829 Total lending to the public, retail customers 30,139,006 -2,551,266 BBB/Baa2 40,553 40,553 8,067 8,067 BBB-/Baa3 21,408 21,408 22,691 22,691 Lending to the public, corporate customers BB+/Ba1 18,457 18,457 0 Performing BB/Ba2 8,008 8,008 10,382 10,382 Stage 1 312,931 -2,428 B+/B1 9,359 9,359 7,070 7,070 Stage 2 50,724 -345 Unrated 3) 175,994 175,994 114,779 114,779 Non-performing Total bonds 1,218,346 0 0 1,218,346 1,195,161 0 0 1,195,161 Stage 3 41,952 -33,998 Other interest-bearing securities Total lending to the public, corporate customers 405,607 -36,771 Fixed income funds 40,009 40,009 36,827 36,827 Structured products 30,599 30,599 30,580 30,580 Total lending to the public 30,544,613 -2,588,037 Total other interest-bearing securities 70,608 0 0 70,608 67,407 0 0 67,407 Subordinated loans Assessments of the credit quality of consumer loans To safeguard the Group’s credit quality, the Group In collaboration with established credit rating agencies, that are non-performing are based on the IFRS 9 continuously monitors and reports on corporate the Group regularly tracks the situation of individual A/A2 18,947 18,947 18,515 18,515 structure and the three stages in which a credit is credit lending commitments in accordance with credit commitments in order to monitor customers' A-/A3 3,446 3,446 0 categorised. specific guidelines. repayment capacity. BBB+/Baa1 0 3,423 3,423 The Group assesses the credit quality of lease BBB/Baa2 5,897 5,897 5,379 5,379 receivables and lending to the public, corporate Total subordinated loans 28,290 0 0 28,290 27,317 0 0 27,317 customers, on the basis of the individual borrower's Derivatives ability to pay. AA-/Aa3 49,160 49,160 90,418 90,418 A/A2 61,547 61,547 99,757 99,757 Total derivatives 110,707 0 0 110,707 190,175 0 0 190,175 Total credit risk exposure in the balance sheet 41,759,965 -2,878,640 -172,948 38,708,377 36,800,559 -2,588,037 -144,097 34,068,425 Commitments Unutilised credit facilities granted 4) 27,546,215 27,546,215 27,533,519 27,533,519 Total credit risk exposure 69,306,180 -2,878,640 -172,948 66,254,592 64,334,078 -2,588,037 -144,097 61,601,944 In the event credit ratings differ, the lowest is used. 1) The item 'unrated treasury and other bills elegible for refinancing' is comprised of holdings in a Swedish municipality that are not rated. 2) The item 'lending to credit institutions unrated' is comprised of lending to other banks. The Group also runs a deposit co-operative with Avanza Bank, a bank listed on Nasdaq Stockholm; the SEK 117 million (105) of liquidity produced therefrom is invested to manage daily flows arising from the deposit co-operative. 3) The item 'bonds unrated' is comprised of bonds investments from Solid Försäkringar´s investment portfolio. The largest counterparties are SAAB SEK 20 million, Peab SEK 20 million and Scania SEK 15 million. The rest SEK 121 million, is devided on 10 additional counterparts. 4) All granted but unutilised credit facilitities are terminable to the extent permitted under the Swedish Consumer Credit Act. GRI 102-15 GRI 102-15 68 RESURS HOLDING RESURS HOLDING 69 INSURANCE RISKS A straight-line (pro rata) earnings model is used for The Group manages operational risks, for example, by Insurance risk is the risk of a change in value due to insurance risks with a term of 12 months or less. A applying a risk management framework that includes FIXED INTEREST deviations between actual and expected insurance provision for unexpired risks is made if the provision measures for risk identification, assessment, training, INTEREST RATE RISK costs. This means the risk that actual outcome for unearned premiums is deemed to be insufficient control and reporting operational risks. Focus is on Interest rate risk is primarily defined as a risk of Overall interest rate risk is deemed to be limited. This The financing via deposits at variable interest rates has a deviates from the expected outcome due to, for to cover the Group’s liabilities for the remaining managing significant risks by analysing and documenting incurring expenses, meaning the risk that the Group’s given the relatively high credit turnover rate and the contractual and theoretical very short fixed interest term example, a higher claims frequency, larger average terms of valid insurance contracts. processes and procedures and by applying risk-mitigating net interest income will decrease due to fact that interest rates can be adjusted within two of only one day. The pattern, unlike the contractual, has claims costs, one or more major claims or higher measures. The Group’s processes have been mapped with disadvantageous market interest rates. Interest rate months according to credit agreements and historically been significantly longer than one day. outcome of insurance costs compared with estimated There is always some uncertainty associated with controls to ensure that identified risks are managed and risk normally arises as a result of companies having applicable consumer credit legislation in several provisions. estimates of technical provisions. The estimates are monitored effectively. different maturities or fixed interest terms for their markets. Most lending and deposits take place at In legal terms, the Group’s interest rate risk associated based on facts relating to historical claims and assets and liabilities. Interest rate risk increases if the variable interest rates. Interest swap agreements with lending is limited since the majority of the interest Insurance risk primarily comprises premium and assessments of future trends. Because the majority The Group has a procedure for approving new or terms for assets deviate from the terms for liabilities. may also be signed to limit interest rate risk. The rate terms are variable. In reality, however, it is not as reserve level risk and disaster risk. of the Group’s claims are short-term in nature (for significant changes in existing products/services, Interest rate risk mainly affects companies in the Treasury Department continually measures, checks easy for market reasons to fully offset a change in most portfolios, claims are concluded within 2 to 12 markets, processes or other major changes in the form of gradual changes in net interest income, which and manages interest rate risk on interest-bearing interest rates, and this may have an impact on net Premium risk months from the claim date), the risk of negative business operations. The procedure is aimed at enabling can thus affect operating income and both short and assets and liabilities by applying a variety of models interest income, depending on the active position. Higher Premium risk is the risk of losses due to incorrect developments due to factors such as future claims the Group to effectively and efficiently manage risks that long-term capital ratios. and the Board has established limits for maximum interest expenses can be countered promptly by pricing, risk concentration, taking out wrong or inflation is reduced. may arise in connection with, for example, new or interest rate risk. amending the terms for new lending. In view of the insufficient reinsurance or a random fluctuation in significantly changed products or services. Interest rate risk pertains to changes in interest rates relatively high credit turnover rate, overall interest rate the claims frequency and/or claims amount. The risk The Group’s Actuary function reports directly to the and the structure of the interest rate curve. In a calculation of a one (1) percentage-point change risk is deemed limited. Most borrowers in the Payment in the portfolio of the Group’s insurance operations is Board annually or more frequently in connection with MARKET RISKS in the market interest rate, net interest income for Solutions segment are also able to switch between well-balanced and mainly comprises a large number the preparation of the annual accounts. Market risks in the financial operations primarily comprise Most of the Group’s interest rate risks are structural the next 12 months would increase/decrease by SEK various partial payment options during the credit period. of insurance with low, individual risks. Concentration interest rate risk, currency risk and share price risk. The and arise within the Group’s banking operations 67 million (54), based on interest-bearing assets and risk in the overall portfolio is also considered to be Disaster risk Board adopts policies that control these risk, for example, where fixed interest terms for assets and liabilities do liabilities on the closing date. A one (1) percentagelow since the Group’s insurance portfolio is highly Disaster risk is the risk that a single event would by setting limits that restrict risk levels. No positions are not always coincide. point parallel shift in the yield curve and by applying diversified in terms of both products and geography. generate claims on a large number of policies. This held in the trading book. the discounted future cash flow, interest rate risk on risk is considered less likely since the insurance The Group endeavours to ensure sound matching equity on the closing date was +/SEK 14 million (6). The Group manages and limits premium and disaster portfolio is well diversified. The Group’s largest Risks attributable to foreign exchange-rates arise on the between fixed and variable interest rates in its risk by the Board issuing policies regulating, for proportion of insurance is individual product differences between assets and liabilities in different statement of financial position, and can relatively example, maximum retention and a framework for insurance policies for consumer goods, which do not currencies. Interest rate risks arise on the difference quickly mitigate interest rate rises by changing the premium pricing. The Group carries out regular have any exposure to natural disasters, such as between interest-rate terms for assets and liabilities. terms of new loans. detailed reviews of premium pricing and continuously hurricanes, flooding, hail, earthquakes or subsidence. assesses the profitability of established insurance arrangements and changes in tariffs and premiums OPERATIONAL RISKS levels. To further limit premium and disaster risk, Operational risks refer to the risk of loss due to reinsurance has been taken out in the risk portfolios incorrect or non-appropriate internal processes and 31/12/2019 Less than 1 1-3 3-12 More than 1 InterestTotal with a higher risk exposure to major and chainprocedures, human errors, incorrect systems or month months months year free reaction claims. Reinsurers are selected based on external events, including legal risks. Operational risks Assets factors including expertise and financial position and include the following main categories of risk: comply with the policies established by the board of Process risks, which arise due to process Cash and balances at central banks 220,799 220,799 the insurance company. The Group continuously weaknesses, unclear distribution of responsibilities, Treasury and other bills eligible for refinancing 280,344 1,051,953 224,776 201,762 1,758,835 reviews the entire reinsurance programme to ensure shortcomings in internal control, etc. Lending to credit institutions 4,128,953 4,128,953 that all risks are covered as required. Personnel risks, which arise on, for example, changes in personnel; weaknesses in project Lending to the public 30,255,487 135,139 489,572 464,589 31,344,787 Reserve level risk management, corporate culture and communication; Bonds and other interest-bearing securities 213,462 857,326 218,166 1,288,954 Reserve level risk refers to the risk of variations in errors by personnel; risks attributable to the time and amount of claims payments. Provisions remuneration systems, etc. Subordinated loans 5,985 12,962 3,446 5,897 28,290 for unearned premiums is intended to cover the IT/systemic risks, which arise due to shortcomings in Shares and participations 95,823 95,823 expected claim costs and operating costs for the IT systems, inadequate systems support, etc. Intangible assets 2,063,405 2,063,405 remaining term of valid insurance contracts. As External risks, which arise in the event of criminal compensation is only paid after a loss has occurred, it actions, shortcomings among suppliers, disasters, etc. Property, plant & equipment 139,871 139,871 is also necessary to make provisions for claims Legal risks, which arise, for example, when an Other assets 679,031 679,031 outstanding. Technical provisions are the total of agreement is not fully or partially enforceable, Total assets 35,105,030 2,057,380 717,794 890,414 2,978,130 41,748,748 unearned premiums and unexpired risks, and claims lawsuits, adverse judgements or other legal processes outstanding. Technical provisions always contain a that disrupt or adversely impact the business. Legal certain degree of uncertainty as the provisions risks also include compliance risk, which arises as a Liabilities include an estimate of the size and frequency of result of failure to comply with laws, rules, Liabilities to credit institutions 94,900 94,900 future claim payments. The uncertainty of technical regulations, agreements, prescribed practices and provisions is usually higher for new portfolios for ethical standards, and which can lead to current or Deposits and borrowing from the public 19,659,250 2,495,072 1,853,588 401,122 24,409,032 which complete settlement statistics are not yet future risks as regards earnings and capital. Other liabilities 1,247,776 1,247,776 available and for portfolios in which final adjustment of claims takes place following a long period of time. Security risks are included in operational risks and Technical provisions 585,557 585,557 refer to the risk of inadequate or incorrect internal Issued securities 2,899,991 4,772,356 7,672,347 Solid Försäkring manages and minimises reserve level processes or external events, including cyber attacks Subordinated debt 298,771 299,119 597,890 risk by means of the Board’s policies on reserve level or in sufficient physical security, that can negatively risk and technical provision risks and provisioning affect the availability, integrity and confidentiality of Equity 297,033 6,844,213 7,141,246 instructions that govern the calculation of technical information and communication systems or the Total liabilities 22,952,912 7,863,580 1,853,588 401,122 8,677,546 41,748,748 provisions. The actuarial assumptions for determining information used to provide services. the provisions for claims outstanding are based on historical claims and exposures that are known at the Difference, assets and liabilities 12,152,118 -5,806,200 -1,135,794 489,292 -5,699,416 0 reporting date. The models used are clearly recognised actuarial models such as chain ladder or other loss development factor models. The outcome corresponds to a provision that covers the expected future payments for all claims incurred, even claims that have not yet been reported. Provision for unearned premiums are calculated individually for each insurance contract. The computation uses experience-based factors, the starting point being how the claim costs are incurred over the period of insurance. 70 RESURS HOLDING GRI 102-15 GRI 102-15 RESURS HOLDING 71 FIXED INTEREST CURRENCY RISK 31/12/2018 Less than 1 1-3 3-12 More than 1 InterestTotal Exchange-rate risk is the risk that the value of assets So as to minimise exchange-rate risk, efforts are acquisition and deductions for dividends paid. The Group month months months year free and liabilities, including derivatives, may vary due to made to match assets and liabilities in the respective applies hedge accounting for this net investment. exchange rate fluctuations or other relevant risk currencies as far as possible, and part of earnings in Exchange-rate differences attributable to currency Assets currencies other than SEK are exchanged on a regular factors. hedges of investments in foreign subsidiaries are Cash and balances at central banks 63,215 63,215 basis. The Treasury Department manages the recognised in “Other comprehensive income.” Treasury and other bills eligible for refinancing 174,752 785,296 24,337 24,636 1,009,021 Currency risk arises when the value of assets and currency exposures arising in the banking operations liabilities in foreign currency translated to SEK by using currency hedges to reduce the net value of Transactions in foreign branch offices are translated to Lending to credit institutions 3,703,650 3,703,650 change because exchange rates fluctuate. The main assets and liabilities (including derivatives) in one SEK using the average exchange-rate during the period in Lending to the public 27,116,865 77,890 256,004 505,817 27,956,576 currencies for the operations are: SEK, NOK, DKK and single currency. Derivatives in the banking operations which the income and expenses have occurred. EUR. There are also currency flows in, for example, are regulated via ISDA and CSA agreements. Bonds and other interest-bearing securities 287,482 913,442 61,644 1,262,568 GBP, CHF and USD. Exchange-rate gains and losses arising on settlement of Subordinated loans 5,835 12,680 8,802 27,317 The Group hedged the net investment in yA Bank AS these transactions and from translation of foreign Shares and participations 68,556 68,556 The vast majority of the Group’s exchange-rate risk is before the operation was merged in November 2018. currency assets and liabilities using the closing rate are of a strategic and structural nature. The hedged item comprises the sum of the recognised through profit or loss. Intangible assets 1,973,681 1,973,681 subsidiary’s equity at the acquisition date, other Property, plant & equipment 56,228 56,228 The Group’s exposure to currency risks that impact contributions after the Other assets 834,660 834,660 earnings is managed continuously. Total assets 31,351,799 1,789,308 280,341 600,899 2,933,125 36,955,472 Liabilities Liabilities to credit institutions 149,900 149,900 Deposits and borrowing from the public 19,027,169 224,465 1,096,719 229,800 20,578,153 Other liabilities 1,216,406 1,216,406 Technical provisions 532,115 532,115 CURRENCY EXPOSURE Issued securities 3,476,520 4,355,666 7,832,186 31/12/2019 DKK EUR NOK CHF GBP Other Total Subordinated debt 298,171 298,171 Foreign currency assets, presented in SEK thousand Equity 6,348,541 6,348,541 Cash and balances with central banks 154,914 65,885 220,799 Total liabilities 22,951,760 4,580,131 1,096,719 229,800 8,097,062 36,955,472 Treasury and other bills eligible for refinancing 30,158 196,399 228,992 455,549 Lending to credit institutions 66,864 721,948 934,985 8,204 4,729 2,735 1,739,465 Difference, assets and liabilities 8,400,039 -2,790,823 -816,378 371,099 -5,163,937 0 Lending to the public 4,065,796 4,290,402 8,754,773 17,110,971 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities 198,358 228,768 40,009 467,135 Subordinated loans 3,446 3,446 Shares and participations 2,514 6,036 8,550 Intangible assets 7 1,085,012 1,085,019 Property, plant & equipment 892 2,830 3,058 6,780 Other assets 23,988 51,301 213,953 21,821 2,059 228 313,350 Total assets 4,190,212 5,619,605 11,521,462 70,034 6,788 2,963 21,411,064 Foreign currency liabilities, presented in SEK thousand Deposits and borrowing from the public 6,640,330 6,517,643 13,157,973 Other liabilities 51,936 126,144 225,034 4,153 475 19 407,761 Technical provisions 734 52,008 240,280 48,180 6,133 209 347,544 Other provisions 1,426 3,082 8,498 13,006 Total liabilities 54,096 6,821,564 6,991,455 52,333 6,608 228 13,926,284 Net assets 4,136,116 -1,201,959 4,530,007 17,701 180 2,735 Nominal amount, currency hedges -4,141,512 1,173,319 -3,570,413 Difference between assets and liabilities incl. nominal amount of -5,396 -28,640 959,594 17,701 180 2,735 currency hedges Sensitivity analysis Total financial assets 4,175,183 5,590,105 10,334,199 50,823 6,462 2,862 Total financial liabilities -50,654 -6,738,917 -6,673,132 -3,221 -308 Nominal amount, currency hedges -4,141,512 1,173,319 -3,570,413 Total -16,983 24,507 90,654 47,602 6,154 2,862 Exchange-rate fluctuation, 5% on comprehensive income of the -849 1,225 4,533 2,380 308 143 year before tax 72 RESURS HOLDING GRI 102-15 GRI 102-15 RESURS HOLDING 73 CURRENCY EXPOSURE FUNDING CONSOLIDATED SITUATION 31/12/2018 A core component of financing efforts is maintaining Resurs Bank has completed a securitisation of loan Monthly reports that include information on the financial DKK EUR NOK CHF GBP Other Total a well-diversified financing structure with access to receivables, a form of structured financing, referred situation, liquidity forecast and risk measures are Foreign currency assets, presented in SEK thousand several sources of financing. Access to a number of to as Asset Backed Securities (ABS). This took place submitted to the Treasury Committee. Policies adopted by Cash and balances with central banks 63,215 63,215 sources of financing means that it is possible to use by transferring loan receivables to Resurs Bank’s the Board are continuously monitored, while the Treasury the most appropriate source of financing at any wholly owned subsidiaries Resurs Consumer Loans 1 Committee may also establish requirements that must be Treasury and other bills eligible for refinancing 24,337 24,636 188,968 237,941 particular time. Limited. The acquisition of loan receivables by Resurs followed. Regular reports are also submitted to the Board. Lending to credit institutions 61,915 120,274 843,314 4,056 3,973 2,414 1,035,946 Consumer Loans was financed by an international The Group’s liquidity risk is controlled and audited by Work on diversifying financing remained in focus financial institution. In June 2019, an agreement was independent functions. Lending to the public 3,507,362 2,775,132 8,857,731 15,140,225 during the year. Currency hedges are used to manage signed to extend the existing financing and Resurs Bonds and other interest-bearing securities 44,264 131,401 36,827 212,492 the currency risk associated with lending in currencies Bank has, for a period of 18 months (revolving There must always be liquid assets that can be used Subordinated loans 3,423 3,423 other than the currencies found in the financing period), the right to continue sale of certain immediately to manage daily cash flows arising the operations. These derivatives are covered and additional loan receivables to Resurs Consumer business. There must also be preparedness for uneven Shares and participations 5,801 5,801 regulated by ISDA and CSA agreements established Loans. At 31 december 2019 a total of appoximately cash flows, which can be handled by means of a quick Intangible assets 20 1,114,158 1,114,178 with numerous counterparties. SEK 3.6 billion in loan receivables had been redistribution of liquidity or disposal of investments. Property, plant & equipment 188 3,655 4,433 8,276 transferred to Resurs Consumer Loans. There must be preparedness for a rapid strengthening of The main type of financing is deposits from the liquidity through various actions. Other assets 97,020 50,892 310,168 3,494 3,079 166 464,819 public. This type of financing is offered to customers Resurs Bank and Resurs Consumer Loans have Total assets 3,690,822 3,022,296 11,519,189 44,377 7,052 2,580 18,286,316 in Sweden, Norway and Germany. Deposits, which are provided security for the assets that form part of the Banking operations are characterised by financing which, analysed on a regular basis, totalled SEK 24,647 securitisation. At the balance sheet date, the external for the most part, consists of long-term savings together million (20,773), of which SEK 11,391 million (14,056) financing amounted to SEK 2.9 billion (2.9) of the ABS with ABS and MTN bonds. Lending operations primarily Foreign currency liabilities, presented in SEK thousand was in Sweden, an equivalent of SEK 6,601 million financing. Resurs Bank has the right to amortise comprises short-term lending (Credit Cards and Retail Deposits and borrowing from the public 380,951 6,337,350 6,718,301 (6,337) was in Norway and an equivalent of SEK 6,655 (reduce) the funding every month. Since the bank has Finance). This is a major difference from general banking million (381) was in Germany. The lending to the this option, collateral is linked to the securitisation operations in the Nordic region, which have historically Other liabilities 55,337 85,804 330,553 3,075 100 474,869 public/deposits from the public ratio for the that pays a central role in the monthly interest been based on shorter financing than loans (such as Technical provisions 1,138 49,323 213,953 33,677 6,584 120 304,795 consolidated situation is 127 per cent (135). payments. mortgages), creating a negative cash flow. Structural Other provisions 1,487 1,076 11,672 14,235 liquidity risk is limited since the operations of the Group Deposit products are covered by the deposit A compulsory requirement for a net stable funding have a fundamentally positive cash flow. In the liquidity Issued securities 988,564 988,564 insurance scheme, the purpose of which is to ratio (NSFR) will be applied in 2021 via an EU exposure table with maturity times, deposits from the Total liabilities 57,962 517,154 7,882,092 36,752 6,684 120 8,500,764 strengthen the protection of deposits received from regulation. The NSFR is expressed as a percentage public at variable interest rates are placed in the payable the public and contribute to the stability of the and is to amount to a minimum of 100 per cent. This on demand category. However, assessment and historical financial system. The state deposit insurance scheme shows that the institute has sufficiently stable outcomes show that customer behaviour – as opposed to Net assets 3,632,860 2,505,142 3,637,097 7,625 368 2,460 in Sweden totals SEK 950,000 per person and financing to cover its financing needs for a period of the contractual – is significantly longer than this. The Nominal amount, currency hedges -3,625,760 -2,496,898 -2,607,353 institution, with the option of applying to extend this one year under normal or stressed circumstances. company believes that deposits from the public are a longDifference between assets and liabilities incl. nominal amount of amount under certain circumstances. The deposits Work on preparing the reporting is under way and the term and stable source of financing. Investments must be 7,100 8,244 1,029,744 7,625 368 2,460 offered to customers in Germany are covered by the assessment is that the NSFR for the consolidated of a high credit and liquidity quality and consideration is currency hedges Swedish deposit insurance scheme. In Norway, the situation exceeds 100 per cent. continuously given to maintaining a sufficient amount of state deposit insurance totals NOK 2,000,000 per liquid assets. Sensitivity analysis person. The majority of deposits from the public are Liquidity risks – consolidated situation Total financial assets 3,654,471 3,039,495 10,178,489 43,594 6,160 2,494 covered by the state deposit insurance scheme. Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will be unable The banking operations prepare a funding and liquidity to discharge its payment obligations on the due date plan whenever required, at least once annually. Stress Total financial liabilities -63,067 -470,426 -7,633,861 -2,632 -100 Resurs Bank produced a base prospectus in order to without borrowing at highly unfavourable rates. The tests are carried out regularly to ensure that liquidity is in Nominal amount, currency hedges -3,625,760 -2,496,898 -2,607,353 issue bonds, with a programme that amounts to SEK consolidated situation, comprised of the Parent place for circumstances that deviate from normal Total -34,356 72,171 -62,725 40,962 6,060 2,494 8,000 million (8,000). Resurs Bank has worked Company Resurs Holding AB and the Resurs Bank AB conditions. One recurring stress test evaluates significant successfully on continuously issuing bonds under this Group, must maintain a liquidity reserve and have outflows of deposits from the public. Stress scenarios programme and sees itself as an established issuer in access to an unutilised liquidity margin in the event combining a variety of events and circumstances are Exchange-rate fluctuation, 5% on comprehensive income of the the market. On the closing date, the programme had of irregular or unexpected liquidity flows. implemented on a regular basis. Examples of combined -1,718 3,609 -3,136 2,048 303 125 year before tax 11 issues outstanding of a nominal SEK 5,450 million events are disruptions in the capital market and (4,250). Of the 11 issues, nine are senior unsecured Managing liquidity risk is centralised and the Treasury deterioration in customers’ repayment behaviour. bonds and two issues are Tier 2 capital of SEK 600 Department is responsible for continuously million (300). Outside the programme, Resurs Bank monitoring, analysing, forecasting, managing and also issued Tier 2 capital (T2) of a nominal SEK 200 reporting liquidity risks. The department is led by the million (200). Head of Treasury, who in turn organisationally reports to the CFO. The Group’s liquidity risk is managed Resurs Holding issued Additional Tier 1 Capital of a through policies that specify limits, responsibilities nominal SEK 300 million (0). and monitoring and include a contingency plan. The purpose of the contingency plan is to prepare for In May 2019, rating agency Nordic Credit Rating various courses of action should liquidity trend awarded Resurs Bank AB the credit rating of BBBunfavourably. This plan includes risk indicators that with a stable outlook. There was no change in the could trigger the contingency plan and action plans credit rating as per the closing date. Nordic Credit to strengthen liquidity. Rating’s analyses are available on the website www.nordiccreditrating.com. 74 RESURS HOLDING GRI 102-15 GRI 102-15 RESURS HOLDING 75 LIQUIDITY EXPOSURE, UNDISCOUNTED CASH FLOWS GROUP LIQUIDITY AND LIQUIDITY RESERVE CONSOLIDATED SITUATION 31/12/2019 Payable on < 3 months 3-12 1-5 years >5 years No Total Liquidity comprises both a liquidity reserve and The liquidity reserve, totalling SEK 1,918 million Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR) for the consolidated demand months duration another liquidity portfolio that is monitored on a daily (1,899), is in accordance with Swedish Financial situation is reported to the authorities on a monthly basis. The main liquidity risk is deemed to arise in the Supervisory Authority regulations on liquidity risk basis. The LCR shows the ratio between high qualitative Financial assets event multiple depositors simultaneously withdraw management (FFFS 2010:7) and applicable assets and net outflow during a 30-day stressed period. A their deposited funds. An internal model is used to set amendments thereto for the consolidated situation. ratio of 100 per cent means that the assets met the Cash and balances at central banks 193,433 27,366 220,799 minimum requirements for the amount of the liquidity Accordingly, assets are segregated, unutilised and of stressed scenario, and this is also the minimum ratio from Treasury and other bills eligible for refinancing 680,649 302,551 716,926 73,583 1,773,709 reserve, calculated based on deposit volumes, the high quality. The liquidity reserve largely comprises the authorities. As at 31 December 2019, the ratio for the Lending to credit institutions 3,890,528 71,049 90,000 73,858 3,518 4,128,953 proportion covered by deposit insurance and assets with the highest credit quality rating. consolidated situation was 264 per cent (146). For the relationship to depositors. The model also takes into period January to December 2019, the average LCE Lending to the public 4,820,535 6,946,413 19,151,756 13,305,945 3,461,865 47,686,514 account the future maturities of issued securities. In addition to the liquidity reserve, the consolidated measures 200 per cent for the consolidated situation. Bonds and other interest-bearing securities 113,797 217,708 829,959 105,116 40,009 1,306,589 The Board has stipulated that the liquidity reserve situation has other liquid assets primarily comprised Subordinated loans 62 3,856 25,589 29,507 may never fall below SEK 1,300 million. Apart from the of cash balances with other banks. These assets are All valuations of interest-bearing securities were made at liquidity reserve, there is an intraday liquidity of high credit quality and total SEK 4,982 million market values that take into accout accrued interest. Shares and participations 95,823 95,823 requirement of at least 4 per cent of deposits from (3,688) for the consolidated situation. Total liquidity Other financial assets 227,753 12,950 240,703 the public, or a minimum SEK 700 million. There are amounted SEK 6,900 million (5,588). Total liquidity also other liquidity requirements regulating and corresponded to 28 per cent (27 per cent) of deposits Total 4,083,961 5,913,845 7,573,478 20,798,088 13,484,644 3,628,581 55,482,597 controlling the business. from the public. The Group also has unutilised credit facilities of NOK 50 million (50). Financial liabilities Liabilities to credit institutions 94,900 94,900 Deposits and borrowing from the public 1) 19,558,828 2,087,831 1,928,474 854,651 24,429,784 LIQUIDITY RESERVE Issued securities 294,448 1,573,661 4,465,767 1,452,032 7,785,908 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Subordinated debt 6,564 19,836 104,671 685,075 816,146 Liquidity reserve as per FFFS 2010:7 definition 3) Additional Tier 1 instruments 4,222 12,760 367,790 384,772 Securities issued by sovereigns 184,378 49,117 Other financial liabilities 662,117 82,300 744,417 Securities issued by municipalities 830,219 729,974 Total 19,558,828 3,055,182 3,711,931 5,792,879 2,137,107 0 34,255,927 Lending to credit institutions 250,000 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities 903,264 870,196 Net assets -15,474,867 2,858,663 3,861,547 15,005,209 11,347,537 3,628,581 21,226,670 Summary liquidity reserve as per FFFS 2010:7 1,917,861 1,899,287 Derivatives, received 4,000,664 3,797,618 7,798,282 Other liquidity portfolio Derivatives, paid -3,914,423 -3,797,502 -7,711,925 Cash and balances at central banks 220,799 63,215 2) Difference per time interval -15,474,867 2,944,904 3,861,663 15,005,209 11,347,537 3,628,581 21,313,027 Securities issued by municipalities 699,902 100,033 The cash flow for securities is calculated applying the coupon-rate for each security at that point of time. Lending to credit institutions 4,061,272 3,425,045 Interest attributable to Deposits from the public with variable interest rates are not reflected in the above tables. Bonds and other interest-bearing securities 100,043 1) Interest attributable to deposits from the public with fixed interest rates largely comprises interest that is capitalised and paid at maturity. The model assumes that deposits with fixed interest Total other liquidity portfolio 4,981,973 3,688,336 terms of less than 12 months are capitalised and paid at maturity. For deposits with fixed interest terms of more than 12 months, interest is capitalised and paid annually and at maturity. 2) Amounts payable on demand amounted to SEK -15,475 million. Contractual and expected terms are deemed to deviate for deposits from the public of SEK 19,559 million. The pattern, unlike the contractual terms, has historically been significantly lower than one day. 3) Total liquidity portfolio 6,899,834 5,587,623 Additional Tier 1 Capital refers to AT1 bonds that are recognised as equity in the balance sheet. Other liquidity-creating measures 31/12/2018 Payable on < 3 months 3-12 1-5 years >5 years No Total Unutilised credit facilities 52,895 51,225 demand months duration In evaluating liquid assets for LCR reporting, the following assessment of liquid asset quality is made before each value judgement in accordance with the EU Commission’s delegated regulation (EU) 575/2013 Financial assets Valuations of interest-bearing securities in the above table are measured at market value and accrued interest. Cash and balances at central banks 63,215 63,215 LIQUIDITY COVERAGE RATIO (LCR) LIQUID ASSETS Treasury and other bills eligible for refinancing 270,991 27,359 673,601 46,667 1,018,618 31/12/2019 Total SEK EUR DKK NOK Lending to credit institutions 3,450,465 57,558 90,000 75,644 29,983 3,703,650 Level 1 assets Lending to the public 4,178,366 6,453,403 17,420,866 10,695,858 3,290,346 42,038,839 Cash and balances with central banks 193,433 127,548 65,885 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities 101,784 141,463 979,030 19,173 36,827 1,278,277 Securities or guaranteed by sovereigns, central banks, MDBs and international org. 184,378 120,318 30,211 33,849 Subordinated loans 41 400 29,090 29,531 Securities issued by municipalites 1,530,121 1,273,617 76,652 179,852 Shares and participations 68,556 68,556 Covered bonds 374,185 196,880 177,305 Other financial assets 261,945 12,900 274,845 Level 2 assets Total 3,513,680 4,870,685 6,725,525 19,178,231 10,761,698 3,425,712 48,475,531 Covered bonds 529,079 529,079 Total liquid assets 2,811,196 1,802,696 521,398 30,211 456,891 Financial liabilities Liabilities to credit institutions 149,900 149,900 31/12/2018 Total SEK EUR DKK NOK Deposits and borrowing from the public 1) 19,025,446 226,486 1,105,095 233,399 20,590,426 Level 1 assets Issued securities 17,724 1,608,323 5,097,074 1,220,596 7,943,717 Cash and balances with central banks 63,215 63,215 Subordinated debt 3,002 8,907 47,665 338,791 398,365 Securities or guaranteed by sovereigns, central banks, MDBs and international org. 49,117 24,662 24,455 Other financial liabilities 713,791 79,878 793,669 Securities issued by municipalites 729,974 556,093 173,881 Total 19,025,446 961,003 2,952,103 5,378,138 1,559,387 0 29,876,077 Covered bonds 188,624 100,099 42,498 46,027 Level 2 assets Net assets -15,511,766 3,909,682 3,773,422 13,800,093 9,202,311 3,425,712 18,599,454 Covered bonds 572,680 531,730 40,950 Derivatives, received 6,037,479 2,870,459 8,907,938 Total liquid assets 1,603,610 1,187,922 67,160 24,455 324,073 Derivatives, paid -5,904,770 -2,825,298 -8,730,068 Level 1 is comprised of assets with the highest quality and level 2 of very high-quality assets according to the Liquidity Coverage Ratio regulations. 2) Difference per time interval -15,511,766 4,042,391 3,818,583 13,800,093 9,202,311 3,425,712 18,777,324 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Total liquid assets 2,811,196 1,603,610 The cash flow for securities is calculated applying the coupon-rate for each security at that point of time. Interest attributable to Deposits from the public with variable interest rates are not reflected in the above tables. Net liquidity outflow 1,025,759 1,031,174 1) LCR measure 264% 146% Interest attributable to Deposits from the public with fixed interest rates is capitalised annually; in the model, however, it is deemed paid in full at maturity. 2) The report on liquidity generally describes the consolidated situation and not the Group. The consolidated situation includes the Parent Company Resurs Holding AB and the Resurs Bank AB Group. Amounts payable on demand amounted to SEK -15,512 million. Contractual and expected terms are deemed to deviate for deposits from the public of SEK 19,025 million. The pattern, unlike the contractual terms, has historically been significantly lower than one day. 76 RESURS HOLDING GRI 102-15 GRI 102-15 RESURS HOLDING 77 G4 CAPITAL ADEQUACY CONSOLIDATED SITUATION CAPITAL REQUIREMENT Capital adequacy Capital adequacy regulation is the legislator's internal capital adequacy assessment process (ICAAP). In the event of default or bankruptcy, subordinated loans 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 requirement for how much capital, known as the capital are repaid after other liabilities. See note G40 Subordinated Riskweighted Capital Riskweighted Capital base, a credit institution must have in relation to the The ongoing review of the internal capital adequacy debt, for further information. exposure amount requireexposure requirelevel of risks the institution takes. Capital requirements assessment process is an integral part of the Group’s ment amount ment are calculated in accordance with European Parliament risk management. The internal capital adequacy Capital requirement Credit risks and Council Regulation EU 575/2013 (CRR) and Directive assessment process is performed annually and the The consolidated situation calculates the capital 2013/36 EU (CRD IV). The Directive was incorporated via internally assessed capital requirement is updated requirement for credit risk, credit valuation adjustment risk, Exposures to central governments or central banks the Swedish Capital Buffers Act (2014:966), and the quarterly based on established models. The Group’s market risk and operational risk. Credit risk is calculated by Exposures to regional governments of local authorities Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority’s (SFSA) capital target is to achieve a Total capital ratio and applying the standardised method under which the asset regulations regarding prudential requirements and Common Equity Tier 1 ratio exceeding 15% and 11.5%, items of the consolidated situation are weighted and Exposures to public sector entities capital buffers (FFFS 2014:12). The capital requirement respectively. Capital targets can be seen as an overall divided between 17 different exposure classes. The total riskExposures to multilateral development banks calculation below comprises the statutory minimum risk propensity. Information about risk management in weighted exposure amount is multiplied by 8 per cent to capital requirement for credit risk, credit valuation the Group can be found in Note G3 Risk management. obtain the minimum capital requirement for credit risk. The Exposures to international organisations adjustment risk, market risk and operational risk. credit valuation adjustment risk is also calculated according Exposures to institutions 830,818 66,465 748,532 59,883 Capital base to the standardised method and is applied to calculate the Exposures to corporates 412,282 32,983 366,130 29,290 The regulatory consolidation (known as “consolidated The capital base is the total of Tier 1 capital and Tier 2 counterparty risk arising when the consolidated situation situation”) comprises the Resurs Bank AB Group and its capital less deductions in accordance with the Capital hedges currency exposures by using derivative instruments. Retail exposures 21,171,101 1,693,688 19,027,139 1,522,171 Parent Company Resurs Holding AB. See note G1 for Requirements Regulation 575/2013 EU (CRR). The capital requirement for operational risk is from 20 Exposures secured by property mortgates further information. Deductions made by the consolidated situation are September 2019 calculated by the standardised method. presented in the table below and deducted from Under this method, the capital requirement for operational Exposures in default 3,095,205 247,616 2,666,279 213,302 The combined buffer requirement for the consolidated Common Equity Tier 1 capital. risks is 12 per cent of the income indicator (meaning Exposures with particularly high risk situation comprises a capital conservation buffer and a average operating income for the past three years). Three Exposures in the form of covered bonds 90,122 7,210 86,879 6,950 countercyclical capital buffer. The capital conservation Common Equity Tier 1 capital different credit rating companies are used to calculate the buffer requirement amounts to 2.5 per cent of the Common Equity Tier 1 capital comprises share capital, bank’s capital base requirement for bonds and other Items related to securitisation positions risk­weighted assets. The countercyclical capital buffer paid-in capital, retained earnings and other reserves of interest-bearing securities. Exposures to institutions and companies with short-term credit ratings 99,943 7,995 requirement is weighted according to geographical the companies included in the consolidated situation. requirements, which amounts to 2,5 per cent of the Profit for the year may only be included after approval Transition rules IFRS 9 Exposures in the form of units or shares in collective instrument undertakings (funds) risk­weighted assets for Swedish and Norwegian by the SFSA. Resurs Bank has applied to the Swedish Financial Equity exposures 96,404 7,712 80,001 6,400 exposures. The countercyclical capital buffer Supervisory Authority for permission to apply the transition Other items 513,701 41,096 545,212 43,618 requirements increased from 2 per cent to 2.5 per cent Tier 1 capital rules decided at EU level in December 2017. Under the for Norwegian exposures from 31 December 2019. For Tier 1 capital comprises Common Equity Tier 1 capital transition rules, a gradual phase-in of the effect of IFRS 9 Total credit risk 26,209,633 2,096,770 23,620,115 1,889,609 Danish exposures a countercyclical capital buffer and other Tier 1 capital. In December 2019, Resurs on capital adequacy is permitted, regarding both the effect requirement of 1 per cent of risk-weighted assets is Holding AB issued Additional Tier 1 Capital of a nominal of the transition from IAS 39 as at 1 January 2018 and the effective from 30 September 2019 and to 1,5 per cent SEK 300 million. effect on the reporting date that exceeds the amount when Credit valuation adjustment risk 30,589 2,447 45,050 3,604 from June 2020 and is proposed at 2 per cent from 30 IFRS 9 is first applied to stage 1 and stage 2. The phase-in December 2020. The Group currently does not need to Tier 2 capital period is as follows: Market risk take into a buffer requirement for its business areas in Tier 2 capital comprises dated or perpetual 2018: 5%, 2019: 10%, 2020: 15%, 2021: 20%, 2022: 25%, 2023: Finland. subordinated loans. When the remaining maturity of a 25% Currency risk 0 0 0 0 subordinated loan is less than 5 years, it is no longer The Board’s guidelines specify that the consolidated included as Tier 2 capital in the capital ratio situation must maintain a capital base that, by a sound calulcations. Tier 2 capital is subordinate to the bank’s Operational risk 4,849,713 387,977 5,552,748 444,220 margin, covers statutory minimum capital requirements deposits from the public and liabilities to nonTotal riskweighted exposure and total capital requirement 31,089,935 2,487,194 29,217,913 2,337,433 and the capital requirements calculated for other risks preferential creditors. identified in the operations according to the In addition to the treatment of Pillar 1 risks above, 1.0 % (1.0) of the consolidated situation's risk-weighted assets are allocated for Pillar 2 requirements as at 31 December 2019. CAPITAL BASE 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 CAPITAL RATIO AND CAPITAL BUFFERS Common Equity Tier 1 capital 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Equity Common Equity Tier 1 ratio, % 13.6 13.4 Equity, Group 6,841,246 6,348,541 Tier 1 ratio, % 14.6 13.4 Additional Tier 1 instruments classified as equity 300,000 Total capital ratio, % 16.3 14.7 Equity according to balance sheet 7,141,246 6,348,541 Common Equity Tier 1 capital requirement incl. buffer requirement, % 9.0 8.6 of which, capital conservation buffer requirement, % 2.5 2.5 Proposed dividend -420,000 -390,000 of which, countercyclical buffer requirement, %* 2.0 1.6 Additional/deducted equity in the consolidated situation -463,076 -413,335 Common Equity Tier 1 capital available for use as buffer, % 7.3 6.7 Equity, consolidated situation 6,258,170 5,545,206 Adjustments according to transition rules IFRS 9: *Geographical allocation of the countercyclical buffer requirement Initial revaluation effect 287,930 321,804 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Less: Credit risk CounterWeighted counterCredit risk CounterWeighted exposure cyclical cyclical buffer exposure cyclical counterAdditional value adjustments -2,743 -2,039 buffer requirement buffer cyclical Intangible fixed assets -2,020,278 -1,945,773 requirement requirement buffer requirement Additional Tier 1 instruments classified as equity -300,000 Sweden 11,844,776 2.5% 1.2% 10,795,867 2.0% 0.9% Shares in subsidiaries -120 -120 Norway 6,919,265 2.5% 0.7% 7,016,402 2.0% 0.6% Total Common Equity Tier 1 capital 4,222,959 3,919,078 Finland 3,436,264 0.0% 0.0% 2,271,143 0.0% 0.0% Denmark 3,178,509 1.0% 0.1% 2,788,172 0.0% 0.0% Tier 1 capital Total 1) 25,378,814 2.0% 22,871,584 1.5% Common Equity Tier 1 capital 4,222,959 3,919,078 Additional Tier 1 instruments 300,000 1) The calculation exclude the exposures towards institute according to the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority’s regulations regarding prudential requirements and capital buffers (FFFS 2014:12). Total Tier 1 capital 4,522,959 3,919,078 Tier 2 capital Dated subordinated loans 548,003 362,227 Total Tier 2 capital 548,003 362,227 Total capital base 5,070,962 4,281,305 78 RESURS HOLDING RESURS HOLDING 79 LEVERAGE RATIO SEGMENT REPORTING 2) Reconciliation of expenses excluding credit losses against income statement The leverage ratio is a non-risk-sensitive capital items that are not recognised in the balance sheet Supervisory Authority, but will have a quantitative requirement defined in Regulation (EU) no 575/2013 and is calculated by the Tier 1 capital as a requirement of 3 per cent in 2021 when the updates to 2019 2018 of the European Parliament and of the Council. The percentage of the total exposure measure. The CRR come into effect. As per segment reporting ratio states the amount of equity in relation to the consolidated situation currently only has a reporting bank’s total assets including requirement to the Swedish Financial Expenses excluding credit losses as regards Insurance segment -97,281 -94,110 Not broken down by segment Expenses excluding credit losses as regards banking operations -1,349,786 -1,321,613 Total -1,447,067 -1,415,723 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Tier 1 capital 4,522,959 3,919,078 As per income statement Leverage ratio exposure 42,031,894 37,406,727 General administrative expenses -1,200,762 -1,178,239 Leverage ratio, % 10.8 10.5 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment of intangible and tangible fixed assets -87,642 -49,039 Other operating expenses -158,663 -188,445 Total -1,447,067 -1,415,723 G5 SEGMENT REPORTING 3) Reconciliation of operating profit against income statement The CEO of Resurs Holding AB is the chief operating The CEO assesses the performance of Payment Segment reporting is based on the same principles as decision maker for the Group. Management has Solutions, Consumer Loans and Insurance. The CEO those used for the consolidated financial statements. 2019 2018 established segments based on the information that evaluates segment development based on net Assets monitored by the CEO refer to lending to the As per segment reporting is dealt with by the Board of Directors and used as operating income less credit losses, net. The public. supporting information for allocating resources and Insurance segment is evaluated at the operating Operating profit, Insurance 127,452 83,413 evaluating results. profit/loss level, as this is part of the segment’s Not broken down by segment responsibility. Operating profit as regards banking operations 1,435,245 1,403,147 2019 Payment Consumer Loans Insurance Intra-Group Total Group Total 1,562,697 1,486,560 Solutions adjustment As per income statement Interest income 1,200,330 2,103,848 15,283 -8,877 3,310,584 Operating profit 1,562,697 1,486,560 Interest expense -116,177 -301,578 -32 8,877 -408,910 Total 1,562,697 1,486,560 Provision income 357,070 111,616 -245,993 222,693 Fee & commission expense, banking operations -60,442 -60,442 Premium earned, net 898,481 -1,972 896,509 Insurance compensation, net -222,941 -222,941 Payment Consumer Insurance Total Group Fee & commission expense, insurance operations -485,560 243,476 -242,084 Solutions Loans Net income/expense from financial transactions -17,848 -23,513 18,932 -107 -22,536 Lending to the public Other operating income 166,394 52,793 570 -13,412 206,345 31/12/2019 11,425,811 19,918,976 31,344,787 Total operating income 1,529,327 1,943,166 224,733 -18,008 3,679,218 31/12/2018 10,507,819 17,448,757 27,956,576 1) of which, internal 140,615 110,021 -232,628 -18,008 0 Credit losses, net -212,520 -456,934 -669,454 G6 GEOGRAPHIC INCOME DISTRIBUTION AND OTHER DATA BY COUNTRY Operating income less credit losses 1,316,807 1,486,232 224,733 -18,008 3,009,764 Other 2019 Sweden Denmark Norway Finland Switzerland Total countries 2) Expenses excluding credit losses -97,281 Gross income 1)2) 2,014,072 637,404 1,324,503 588,397 30,739 18,481 4,613,595 3) Operating profit, Insurance 127,452 Profit before tax 887,626 154,261 289,285 225,847 5,679 1,562,697 Income tax expense -167,358 -42,559 -87,468 -48,921 -82 -346,387 2018 Payment Consumer Loans Insurance Intra-Group Total Group Other Solutions adjustment 2018 Sweden Denmark Norway Finland Switzerland Total countries 1)2) Gross income 1,829,619 602,929 1,296,151 499,367 23,175 13,784 4,265,025 Interest income 1,121,384 1,935,502 12,629 -6,661 3,062,854 Profit before tax 608,752 195,196 484,895 196,411 1,306 1,486,560 Interest expense -107,272 -223,362 -52 6,661 -324,025 Income tax expense -156,570 -50,712 -92,673 -43,144 -46 -343,145 Provision income 325,477 119,331 -226,972 217,836 Fee & commission expense, banking operations -57,090 -57,090 1) Gross income includes interest income, fee and commission income, net income/expense from financial transactions, premium revenue net, and other operating income. 2) Gross income for Sweden also includes cross-boarder business within the Insurance segment totalling SEK 66.1 million (61.5) Danmark, SEK 194.9 million (170.8) Norway, SEK 54.7 million (55.9) Premium earned, net 828,678 -2,524 826,154 Finland, SEK 0 million (1.9) Great Britain and SEK 18.5 million (11.9) other countries. Insurance compensation, net -226,211 -226,211 Branches: Resurs Bank Danmark reg.no. 36 04 10 21, Resurs Bank Norge reg. no 984150865, Resurs Bank Finland reg. no 2110471-4, Fee & commission expense, insurance operations -429,776 209,431 -220,345 Branches: Solid Försäkrings AB Schweiz reg no. 170 9 000 698-8, Solid Försäkrings AB Norge reg. no. 988 263 796 and Solid Försäkrings AB Finland reg. no. 1714344-6. The Group has no single customer that generates 10% or more of total revenues.. Net income/expense from financial transactions -21,182 -19,694 -7,745 692 -47,929 Other operating income 163,937 52,082 -9,909 206,110 Total operating income 1,425,254 1,863,859 177,523 -29,282 3,437,354 1) of which, internal 117,630 111,898 -200,246 -29,282 0 Credit losses, net -186,442 -348,629 -535,071 Operating income less credit losses 1,238,812 1,515,230 177,523 -29,282 2,902,283 2) Expenses excluding credit losses -94,110 Operating profit, Insurance 3) 83,413 1) Inter-segment revenues mostly comprise mediated payment protection insurance, but also remuneration for Group-wide functions that are calculated according to the OECD’s guidelines on internal pricing. 80 RESURS HOLDING RESURS HOLDING 81 G7 NET INTEREST INCOME/EXPENSE G10 INSURANCE COMPENSATION, NET 2019 2018 2019 2018 Interest income Claims paid, gross -202,585 -205,003 Lending to credit institutions 2,333 3,357 Less reinsurance share 7,810 7,829 Lending to the public 1) 3,294,988 3,052,213 Total claims paid, net -194,775 -197,174 Interest-bearing securities 13,263 7,284 Total interest income 3,310,584 3,062,854 Change in provision for losses incurred and reported, gross -4,270 -11,343 Of which, interest income calculated using the effective interest method 3,297,321 3,055,570 Less/additional reinsurance share -445 -224 Total change in provision for losses incurred and reported, net -4,715 -11,567 Interest expense Liabilities to credit institutions -9,162 -7,316 Change in provision for losses incurred but not reported (IBNR), gross -411 1,634 Deposits and borrowing from the public -297,370 -234,512 Total change in provision for losses incurred but not reported (IBNR), net -411 1,634 Issued securities -80,182 -68,429 Subordinated debt -20,553 -10,815 Operating expenses for claims adjustment, gross -23,446 -19,484 Other liabilities -1,643 -2,953 Less reinsurance share 406 380 Total interest expense -408,910 -324,025 Total operating expenses for claims adjustment, net -23,040 -19,104 Of which, expense for deposit guarantee scheme and resolution fee -33,519 -26,946 Of which, interest expense calculated using the effective interest method -408,910 -324,025 Total insurance compensation, net -222,941 -226,211 1) Amount includes interest income on impaired receivables of 218,354 209,886 G11 NET INCOME/EXPENSE FROM FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS 2019 2018 G8 FEE AND COMMISSION EXPENSE, BANKING OPERATIONS Dividend 2,621 3,425 2019 2018 Net income/expense from shares and participations 10,472 -7,471 Fee & commission income Net income/expense from bonds and other interest-bearing securities 6,981 184 Lending commissions 91,139 84,386 Derivatives -204,510 -263,593 Credit card commissions 70,124 65,943 Exchange-rate difference 161,900 219,526 Compensation, mediated insurance 1,896 Total net income/expense from financial transactions -22,536 -47,929 Other commissions 61,430 65,611 Total fee & commission income 222,693 217,836 Net gains/losses by measurement category 1) Financial assets at FVTPL -184,420 -267,446 Fee & commission expenses Financial assets at FVTPL, designated Lending commissions 1) -6,620 Financial assets at FVTPL, held for trading Credit card commissions -60,442 -50,470 Loan receivables and account receivables 161,884 219,517 Total fee & commission expenses -60,442 -57,090 Total -22,536 -47,929 No commission income or commission expense is attributable to balance sheet items at fair value. 1) 1) There is no ineffectiveness in the hedges of net investments in foreign operations that have been recognised in profit or loss or in comprehensive income. Loan commission is reported as interest income from 2019. Comparative figures have not been changed. Net gain and net loss relate to realised and unrealised changes in value. G9 PREMIUM EARNED, NET G12 OTHER OPERATING INCOME 2019 2018 Premium earned 937,163 912,807 2019 2018 Premiums for specified reinsurance -24,207 -25,075 Other income, lending to the public 174,787 170,069 Change in provision for unearned premiums and unexpired risks -16,441 -61,466 Other operating income 31,558 36,041 Reinsurers' share in change in provision for unearned premiums and unexpired risks -6 -112 Total operating income 206,345 206,110 Total premium earned, net 896,509 826,154 82 RESURS HOLDING RESURS HOLDING 83 G13 LEASES G14 GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES Resurs Holding Group as lessor In the banking operations, the Group owns assets in the statement of financial position, in accordance Future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable 2019 2018 that are leased to customers under finance leases. with IFRS. The leased assets are primarily comprised leases fall due as follows: General administrative expenses These assets are reported as Lending to the public of machinery and other equipment. Personnel expenses (also see Note G15) -620,420 -607,086 2019 2018 Postage, communication and notification costs -132,890 -129,171 IT costs -184,604 -185,332 Non-cancellable lease payments: Premises costs -20,522 -41,244 Within one year 7,573 15,341 Consulting expenses -64,819 -79,681 Between one and five years 11,440 17,271 Other -177,507 -135,725 After five years 1,183 1,690 Total general administrative expenses -1,200,762 -1,178,239 Total non-cancellable lease payments 20,196 34,302 The item Other in the classification of General administrative expenses includes fees and remuneration to auditors as set out below. Reconciliation of gross investment and present value of receivables relating to future minimum lease payments 2019 2018 Auditors fee and expenses Gross investment 38,231 66,000 Ernst & Young AB Less unearned financial income -20,196 -34,302 Audit services -4,962 -5,834 Net investment in finance agreements 18,035 31,698 Other assistance arising from audit -1,367 -1,797 Tax advisory services -1,125 -1,037 Provision for doubtful receivables relating to lease payments 591 799 Other services -923 -1,383 At 31 December 2019, the majority of the Group's gross and net investments had a remaining maturity of less than five years. Total -8,377 -10,051 Resurs Holding Group as lessee 2019 Mazars SA On 1 January 2019, the Group introduced IFRS 16 The right-of-use asset is reported in the item amounts to SEK 91 million and for right-of-use assets SEK Audit services -845 -334 Leases, which replaced IAS 17. This means that leases property, plant and equipment, see note G29, and the 95 million. for which the Group is lessee are recognised as rightlease liability is reported in the item other liabilities in Total -845 -334 of-use assets and a corresponding liability to the the statement of financial position. The income statement has been affected by interest lessor on the day that the leased asset becomes expense, SEK 1,355 thousand and depreciation amounting Total auditors fees and expenses -9,222 -10,385 available for use by the Group. The liability for unutilised lease obligations on 1 SEK 29,576 thousand. The tax effect has a positive impact Audit services comprise the examination of the annual financial statements and accounting records and the administration of the Board of Directors and CEO. They also include other procedures January 2019 amounts SEK 107 million and for rightof SEK 147 thousand. The total impact on the financial required to be carried out by the Group's and parent company's auditors, as well as advice or other assistance arising from observations made during the audit or while performing such other The Group will be primarily affected by the right-ofof-use assets SEK 112 million. Equity has not been result is SEK 496 thousand. As at 31 December 2019 the procedures. use assets attributable to leases for premises and affected by the transition to IFRS 16. average margin loan rate amounted to 1,3 per cent. vehicle leases. The right-of-use asset has initially been measured at an amount corresponding to the The average margin loan rate as at 1 January 2019 is lease liability, adjusted for any prepaid or accrued 1.3 per cent. As at 31 December 2019, the liability for lease fees related to the lease agreement. unutilised lease obligations Resurs Holding Group as lessee 2018 (IAS 17) Operating leases are part of Resurs Holding Group's to car leases. Most office leases have maturities of There are no variable fees. Future minimum lease normal operations and are primarily attributable to ten years, and car leases three years. Expensed payments under non-cancellable leases fall due as office space leases, with a small share attributable leasing fees in 2018, totalled SEK 38.3 million (36.6). follows: 2018 Non-cancellable lease payments: Within one year 28,079 Between one and five years 82,268 1) After five years 5,821 Total non-cancellable lease payments 116,168 1) The termination clause allows the lease to be terminated three years prior to the end of the contract for half an annual rent. 84 RESURS HOLDING RESURS HOLDING 85 G15 PERSONNEL PERSONNEL The Board of the banking operations has established Executive management and employees who can The total number of subscribed warrants on 31 December 2019 2018 a remuneration policy in accordance with Swedish influence the Group’s risk level were paid variable 2019 that can be converted by participants through Financial Supervisory Authority’s FFFS 2011:1 remuneration corresponding to approximately 0.6 per exercising the warrants corresponds to approximately 2.5 Salaries -426,841 -415,631 Regulations regarding remuneration structures in cent (3.2) of basic salary. The corresponding figure for per cent of Resurs Holding’s total number of ordinary Social insurance costs -119,280 -117,292 credit institutions, investment firms and fund the Parent Company is about 0.0 per cent (0.0). shares outstanding after the implementation of the offer. management companies licensed to conduct Pension costs -48,921 -52,294 Warrants discretionary portfolio management, recently On 31 December 2019, the warrant programmes had been Other personnel expenses -25,378 -21,869 updated through FFFS 2014:22. The Board of the On 31 December 2019, Resurs Holding AB had two issued in two separate series with different terms (Series Total personnel expenses -620,420 -607,086 insurance operations has established a remuneration active warrant programmes as part of the incentive 2016/2020 and Series 2019/2022). Each warrant entitles policy in accordance with the Supervisory Authority’s programmes for management and employees. The the holder to purchase shares at a predetermined price. A FFFS 2011:2 General guidelines regarding 2016/2019 warrant programme ended in 2019. warrants of series 2016/2020 give the right to buy 1.23 Salaries and other benefits remuneration policy in insurance undertakings, fund shares and the 2019/2022 series gives the right to buy management companies, exchanges, clearing The Annual General Meeting in April 2019 resolved to 1.03 shares. The options can be utilised during three Board, CEO and other senior executives -23,068 -20,484 organisations and institutions for the issuance of offer holders of warrants of series 2016/2019 the subscription periods in 2020 and three subscription Other employees -403,773 -395,147 electronic money. The Board has instituted a opportunity to sell back their warrants of series periods in 2022, respectively. Total salaries and other benefits -426,841 -415,631 Remuneration Committee, which is responsible for 2016/2019 and to offer these holders the opportunity Remuneration of Board members paid to companies and included in the above amounts is reported under General administrative expenses in the Group and in Personnel expenses in the Parent preparing significant remuneration decisions and the to use the proceeds received from the sale of Pensions Company income statement. Group has a control function which, when appropriate warrants of series 2016/2019 to invest in a new series, The Group’s pension obligations for the CEO and other The Group management has changed during the year. and at least annually, independently reviews how the the 2019/2022 programme, with the same share of senior executives are covered by defined contribution Group’s management of remuneration matters warrants that the holders had in the 2016/2019 plans and are based on basic salary. In addition to Remuneration and other benefits corresponds to the regulatory framework. The programme. No holder of series 2016/2019 warrants occupational and statutory pension, a provision for 2019 Basic Variable remuneOther Pensions Total Chairman and members of the Board are paid the decided to exercise their right to subscribe for new pension benefits of SEK 445 thousand (445) in an salary/ ration benefits fees resolved by the Annual General Meeting. shares. endowment insurance policy has been made for the CEO. Board fees Remuneration of executive management and heads The corresponding figure for other senior executives, in Board and CEO of the Group’s control functions is determined by the The 2016/2019 warrant programme was repurchased addition to occupational and statutory pension, is SEK 0 Martin Bengtsson, Chairman -710 -710 Board. Remuneration comprises a basic salary, other in accordance with the resolution of the Annual thousand (40) in an endowment insurance policy. Jan Samuelson, (resigned 02/10/2019, former Chairman) -1,065 -1,065 benefits and pension. General Meeting in April 2019 and the total purchase price amounted to SEK 7.2 million. A new warrant Termination conditions and benefits Christian Frick (resigned 02/10/2019) -367 -367 Senior executives are not paid a bonus or variable programme was resolved at the Annual General In the event of termination of employment by the bank, Lars Nordstrand 3) -890 -890 remuneration. Information on remuneration in the Meeting in April 2019 and 1,375,678 warrants were the CEO and the Executive Vice President are entitled to 3) -577 -577 subsidiaries Resurs Bank AB and Solid Försäkrings AB subscribed for at a total value of SEK 4.0 million. salary during the notice period (18 months and 12 months, Fredrik Carlsson is published on www.resurs.se and www.solidab.com. Warrants were subsequently repurchased in 2019 at a respectively). The notice period for other senior Anders Dahlvig -440 -440 value of SEK 0.6 million. In total, the company executives is 6-8 months. No termination benefits are Mariana Burenstam Linder -582 -582 In 2019, variable remuneration was paid in excess of charged equity with SEK 3.8 million for net changes to paid. Marita Odélius Engström -594 -594 SEK 100 thousand to employees who can influence the warrant programme in 2019. the Group’s risk level. Accordingly, the Group needs to Mikael Wintzell -440 -440 make deferred payments for variable remuneration No cost in accordance with IFRS 2 has arisen since Johanna Berlinde (elected 09/04/2019) -293 -293 that are spread evenly over three years, with the last management and the employees paid a market price payment in 2022. for the warrants. Kenneth Nilsson, CEO -4,697 -214 -1,063 -5,974 Other senior executives (6 individuals) -12,413 -802 -2,758 -15,973 Other employees that may effect the Bank's risk level (22 individuals) -31,531 -345 -1,904 -6,634 -40,414 Senior executives’ use of credit facilities in banking operations Total remuneration and other benefits -54,599 -345 -2,920 -10,455 -68,319 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Credit Unutilised Credit Unutilised 2018 Basic Variable remuneOther Pensions Total limits credit limits credit salary/ ration benefits Board fees CEO 216 11 220 196 Board and CEO Board members 502 67 541 27 Jan Samuelson, Chairman 1) -1,516 -1,516 Other senior executives in the Group 762 523 830 578 Lending terms correspond to terms normally applied in credit lending to other personnel. The Group has not pledged security or assumed contingent liabilities for above-named executives. Christian Frick -477 -477 Martin Bengtsson -460 -460 Average numbers of employees Lars Nordstrand 1) 3) -795 -795 2019 2018 1) 3) Men Women Total Men Women Total Fredrik Carlsson -651 -651 1) Sweden 234 268 502 228 273 501 Anders Dahlvig -469 -469 1) Denmark 43 39 82 45 47 92 Mariana Burenstam Linder -607 -607 Norway 44 51 95 48 64 111 Marita Odélius Engström -552 -552 Finland 17 51 68 18 52 70 Mikael Wintzell -293 -293 Total 338 409 747 339 436 774 Kenneth Nilsson, CEO -4,773 -163 -1,030 -5,966 2) Other senior executives (6 individuals) -9,893 -681 -2,386 -12,960 Reconciliation of outstanding warrants in accordance to the incentive program in Resurs Holding AB Other employees that may effect the Bank's risk level (32 individuals) -36,002 -1,795 -4,191 -6,963 -48,951 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Total remuneration and other benefits -56,486 -1,795 -5,035 -10,379 -73,696 Issued warrants, total 1) Payment was made to Board members company; amount includes compensation for additional taxes. Opening number of warrants issued 8,000,000 8,000,000 2) The item also includes amounts invoiced by individuals for their services to the company. The Group recognises these as general administrative expenses and the Parent Company recognises them as other external expenses. End of 2016/2019 warrant programme -4,000,000 3) Recognised fees refers to total remuneration received by a Board member for board assignment in the company and its subsidiries. New 2019/2022 warrant programme 2,840,000 Pension costs Issued warrants, total 6,840,000 8,000,000 2019 2018 Board, CEO and other senior executives -3,821 -3,416 Issued warrants, outstanding Other employees -45,100 -48,878 Opening number of outstanding warrants 6,180,000 6,860,000 Total -48,921 -52,294 Less, repurchased warrants in ended 2016/2019 programme -3,090,000 Warrants subscribed for during the year 1,375,678 Board members and senior executives at the end of the year Less, warrants repurchased during the year -240,163 -680,000 2019 2018 Of which, Of which, Total subscribed warrants outstanding 4,225,515 6,180,000 Number Number men men Whereof subscribed by CEO 1,365,979 1,500,000 Board members 8 63% 9 78% Whereof subscribed by other senior executive members 682,988 1,500,000 CEO and senior executives 7 43% 7 57% Whereof subscribed by other personnel 2,176,548 3,180,000 86 RESURS HOLDING RESURS HOLDING 87 G19 TAXES G16 DEPRECIATION, AMORTISATION AND IMPAIRMENT OF TANGIBLE AND INTANGIBLE FIXED ASSETTS 2019 2018 2019 2018 Current tax expense Depreciation and amortisation Current tax for the year -342,978 -340,166 Tangible assets -51,917 -20,858 Adjustment of tax attributable to previous year's 3,036 -193 Intangible assets -35,725 -28,181 Current tax expense -339,942 -340,359 Total depreciation and amortisation -87,642 -49,039 1) Deferred tax on temporary differences -6,445 -2,786 Total tax expense reported in income statement -346,387 -343,145 Total depreciation, amortisation and impairment of tangible and intangible assets -87,642 -49,039 2019 2018 Reconciliation of effective tax G17 OTHER OPERATING COSTS Profit before tax 1,562,697 1,486,560 2019 2018 Tax at prevailing tax rate -21.4% -334,417 -22.0% -327,043 Non-deductible expenses/non-taxable income -0.9% -13,589 -0.5% -8,120 Marketing -151,936 -183,614 Tax attributable to differing tax rates for foreign branch offices and subsidiaries -0.1% -1,182 -0.5% -7,618 Insurance -5,896 -4,272 Tax attributable to prior years 0.2% 3,036 0.0% -193 Other -831 -559 Standard interest, tax allocation reserve 0.0% -235 0.0% -171 Total other operating expenses -158,663 -188,445 Recognised effective tax -22.2% -346,387 -23.0% -343,145 2019 2018 G18 CREDIT LOSSES Change in deferred tax 2019 2018 Tax effects attributable to temporary differences, property, plant & equipment -18 -795 Provision of credit losses Tax effects attributable to temporary differences, intangible assets -14,803 -12,696 Stage 1 -3,746 15,288 Tax effects attributable to temporary differences, lending to the public 6,991 9,165 Stage 2 -105,351 19,114 Tax effects attributable to temporary differences, pensions -1,754 412 Stage 3 -150,186 -235,908 Tax effects attributable to temporary differences, other 3,139 1,128 1) Total -259,283 -201,506 Total deferred tax -6,445 -2,786 Provision of credit losses off balance (unutilised limit) 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Stage 1 -2,272 2,490 Deferred tax assets Stage 2 4,318 -416 Deferred tax assets for property, plant & equipment 3,280 3,857 Stage 3 Deferred tax assets for lending to the public 29,504 Total 2,046 2,074 Deferred tax assets for pensions, net 5,326 5,034 Deferred tax assets, other 5,529 10,003 Write-offs of confirmed credit losses -437,791 -354,004 Total deferred tax asset 1) 14,135 48,398 Recoveries of previously confirmed credit losses 25,574 18,365 Total -412,217 -335,639 Offset by country -8,898 -21,703 Net deferred tax assets 5,237 26,695 Total credit losses for the year -669,454 -535,071 off which lending to the public -671,500 -537,145 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Deferred tax liabilities Deferred tax liabilities, intangible assets 45,208 48,506 Deferred tax liabilities for lending to the public 50,792 36,736 Deferred tax liabilities for untaxed reserves 154,179 154,982 Total deferred tax liabilities 250,179 240,224 Offset by country -8,898 -21,703 Net deferred tax liabilities 241,281 218,521 1) Adjustment in relation to IFRS 9 totalling SEK 37.0 million, has been recognised directly through equity, see note G2.1. in the annual report for 2018. 88 RESURS HOLDING RESURS HOLDING 89 G20 EARNINGS PER SHARE G22 LENDING TO CREDIT INSTITUTIONS Basic earnings per share, before diluting, is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to Parent Company shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 shares outstanding during the period. Loans in SEK 2,389,488 2,678,959 2019 2018 Loans in DKK 66,864 61,154 During the January December 2019 period, there During the January December 2018 period, there were a total of 200,000,000 shares with a quotient were a total of 200,000,000 shares with a quotient Loans in NOK 934,985 841,478 value of SEK 0.005. Share capital totalled SEK 1 value of SEK 0.005. Share capital totalled SEK 1 Loans in EUR 721,948 119,564 million. No changes in either the number of million. No changes in either the number of Loans in other currencies 15,668 2,495 outstanding shares or the quotient value took place outstanding shares or the quotient value took place in 2019. No dilution effect exists as of 31 December in 2018. No dilution effect exists as of 31 December Total lending to credit institutions 4,128,953 3,703,650 2019. 2018. Basic and diluted earnings per share, SEK G23 LENDING TO THE PUBLIC 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Profit for the year 1,216,310,000 1,143,415,000 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Receivables outstanding, gross Portion attributable to Resurs Holding AB shareholders 1,213,343,000 1,143,415,000 Loans in SEK 15,111,405 13,806,413 Portion attributable to additional Tier 1 capital holders 2,967,000 Loans in DKK 4,768,230 4,057,458 Profit for the year 1,216,310,000 1,143,415,000 Loans in NOK 9,625,322 9,564,908 Loans in EUR 4,718,470 3,115,833 Weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding 200,000,000 200,000,000 Total lending to the public 34,223,427 30,544,612 Basic and diluted earnings per share 6.07 5.72 Retail sector 33,549,423 29,915,303 Share capital and number of shares Net value of acquired non-performing consumer loans 1) 202,143 223,702 2) 3) 2019 2018 Corporate sector 471,861 405,607 Total lending to the public 34,223,427 30,544,612 Number of Share Number of Share shares capital shares capital 4) Opening numbers beginning of the year 200,000,000 1,000,000 200,000,000 1,000,000 Less provision for expected credit losses -2,878,640 -2,588,036 Closing numbers at the end of the year 200,000,000 1,000,000 200,000,000 1,000,000 Total net lending to the public 31,344,787 27,956,576 1) Acquired non-performing consumer loans as follows: Opening net value of acquired non-performing consumer loans 223,702 255,201 G21 TREASURY AND OTHER BILLS ELIGIBLE FOR REFINANCING Amortisation for the year -22,723 -36,858 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Currency effect 1,164 5,359 Nominal Fair value Carrying value Nominal Fair value Carrying Net value of acquired non-performing consumer loans 202,143 223,702 amount amount value Issued by 2) Amount includes acquired invoice receivables of SEK 353.0 million (273.3). 3) Swedish government and municipalities 1,603,696 1,617,103 1,617,103 902,283 908,836 908,836 Amount includes finance leases of SEK 18.0 million (32.6) for which Resurs Bank is lessor. 4) Amount includes lending to retail and corporate sectors. Foreign governments and municipalities 137,191 141,732 141,732 98,867 100,185 100,185 Total 1,740,887 1,758,835 1,758,835 1,001,150 1,009,021 1,009,021 Of which, listed 1,740,887 1,758,835 1,758,835 1,001,150 1,009,021 1,009,021 Geographic distribution of net lending to the public 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Remaining maturity Sweden 14,233,816 12,816,351 0-1 years 973,881 974,092 974,092 293,392 294,422 294,422 Denmark 4,065,796 3,507,362 1-3 years 199,895 202,576 202,576 344,205 345,351 345,351 Norway 8,754,773 8,857,731 More than 3 years 567,111 582,167 582,167 363,553 369,248 369,248 Finland 4,290,402 2,775,132 Total 1,740,887 1,758,835 1,758,835 1,001,150 1,009,021 1,009,021 Total net lending to the public 31,344,787 27,956,576 Issuer's rating Expected credit losses AAA/Aaa 522,075 529,316 529,316 398,720 401,033 401,033 Stage 1 -174,601 -167,847 AA+/Aa1 918,812 929,577 929,577 552,430 557,976 557,976 Stage 2 -421,929 -312,399 Unrated 1) 300,000 299,942 299,942 50,000 50,012 50,012 Stage 3 -2,282,110 -2,107,790 Total 1,740,887 1,758,835 1,758,835 1,001,150 1,009,021 1,009,021 Total expected credit losses -2,878,640 -2,588,036 1) Unrated treasury and other bills eligible for refinancing' is comprised of holdings in a Swedish municipality that are not rated. 90 RESURS HOLDING RESURS HOLDING 91 Change in provision, Lending to the public Change in gross volume, Lending to the public 31/12/2019 31/12/2019 Non doubtful Non doubtful Doubtful Non doubtful Non doubtful Doubtful receivables receivables receivables receivables receivables receivables Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Total Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Total Carrying amount gross 1 January 2019 22,511,152 3,377,690 4,655,770 30,544,612 Carrying amount gross Changes in risk factors (PD/EAD/LGD) 2,541,836 1,193,710 1,322 3,736,868 Carrying amount gross 1 January 2019 22,511,152 3,377,690 4,655,770 30,544,612 Transfers between stages Carrying amount gross 31 December 2019 23,687,685 5,259,502 5,276,240 34,223,427 from 1 to 3 -1,978,518 1,974,663 -3,855 Provision from 2 to 1 -507,425 456,208 -51,217 Provision at 1 January 2019 -167,847 -312,399 -2,107,790 -2,588,036 from 2 to 3 778,888 -989,586 -210,698 New and derecognised financial assets -24,395 -57,230 -39,888 -121,513 from 3 to 2 -374,751 267,583 -107,168 Changes in risk factors (PD/EAD/LGD) 875 -2,615 119,211 117,471 from 3 to 1 37,009 -40,315 -3,306 Changes in macroeconomic scenarios -1,196 -3,510 -3,162 -7,868 from 3 to 1 25,552 -128,526 -102,974 Changes due to expert assessments (individual assessments, manual adjustments) -3,294 -7,267 -24,439 -35,000 Exchange-rate differences 316,202 40,767 64,196 421,165 Transfers between stages Carrying amount gross 31 December 2019 23,687,687 5,259,502 5,276,238 34,223,427 from 1 to 2 24,221 -155,848 -131,627 from 1 to 3 9,509 -177,913 -168,404 31/12/2018 Non doubtful Non doubtful Doubtful receivables receivables receivables from 2 to 1 -8,909 78,867 69,958 Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Total from 2 to 3 48,366 -97,855 -49,489 Carrying amount gross 1 January 2018 19,364,496 2,830,968 3,840,632 26,036,096 from 3 to 2 -5,729 15,360 9,631 New and derecognised financial assets 3,832,520 893,416 -194,344 4,531,592 from 3 to 1 -507 63,363 62,856 Transfers between stages Exchange-rate differences -3,058 -4,564 -28,997 -36,619 from 1 to 2 -1,069,269 1,104,558 35,289 Provision at 31 December 2019 -174,601 -421,929 -2,282,110 -2,878,640 from 1 to 3 -516,494 537,476 20,982 Carrying amount from 2 to 1 772,763 -976,086 -203,323 Opening balance at 1 January 2019 22,343,305 3,065,291 2,547,980 27,956,576 from 2 to 3 -510,443 489,356 -21,087 Closing balance at 31 December 2019 23,513,084 4,837,573 2,994,130 31,344,787 from 3 to 2 15,951 -16,740 -789 31/12/2018 Non doubtful Non doubtful Doubtful from 3 to 1 20,393 -43,333 -22,940 receivables receivables receivables Exchange-rate differences 106,742 19,327 42,723 168,792 Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Total Carrying amount gross 31 December 2018 22,511,151 3,377,691 4,655,770 30,544,612 Carrying amount gross Carrying amount gross 1 January 2018 19,364,496 2,830,968 3,840,632 26,036,096 Loans to the public, split by stage and provision, retail Carrying amount gross 31 December 2018 22,511,152 3,377,690 4,655,770 30,544,612 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Provision Stage 1 Provision at 1 January 2018 -181,320 -322,150 -1,884,804 -2,388,274 Carrying amount, gross 23,343,496 22,198,221 New and derecognised financial assets -37,888 -60,998 130,593 31,707 Provisions -170,988 -165,419 Changes in risk factors (PD/EAD/LGD) 24,808 8,722 14,763 48,293 Carrying amount 23,172,508 22,032,802 Changes in macroeconomic scenarios 2,028 4,733 17,725 24,486 Transfers between stages Stage 2 from 1 to 2 18,750 -103,073 -84,323 Carrying amount, gross 5,187,002 3,326,966 from 1 to 3 15,226 -209,781 -194,555 Provisions -419,305 -312,054 from 2 to 1 -5,109 88,767 83,658 Carrying amount 4,767,697 3,014,912 from 2 to 3 76,170 -186,373 -110,203 Total performing at year end 28,530,498 25,525,187 from 3 to 2 -1,912 8,778 6,866 Total provision, perfoming at year end -590,293 -477,473 from 3 to 1 -386 22,502 22,116 Exchange-rate differences -4,385 -2,658 -20,764 -27,807 Stage 3 Provision at end of year -168,276 -312,399 -2,107,361 -2,588,036 Carrying amount, gross 5,221,067 4,613,818 Carrying amount Provisions -2,236,322 -2,073,792 Opening balance at 1 January 2018 19,183,176 2,508,818 1,955,828 23,647,822 Carrying amount 2,984,745 2,540,026 Closing balance at 31 December 2018 22,342,876 3,065,291 2,548,409 27,956,576 Total performing at year end 33,751,565 30,139,005 Total provision perfoming at end of the year -2,826,615 -2,551,265 Provision of credit losses during the period were impacted by several different factors, as described below: Transfers between Stage 1 and Stage 2 or Stage 3 depending on whether the loan has significantly increased (or decreased) in risk or if it has defaulted during the period and thus transferred between 12 month and full lifetime ECL. New loans during the period and also loans removed from the portfolio in the same period. (Increases due to issue and purchase and decline due to derecognition from the statement of financial position) Changes in risk factors (PD/EAD/LGD), arising because the model has been updated with new amounts (Changes due to changed credit risk, net). Changes in macroeconomic scenarios based on macroeconomic factors, that from a historical perspective has proven to correlate well with changes in the Group's credit losses and also partly on an assessed effect of regulatory changes in Norway. Exchange-rate differences 92 RESURS HOLDING RESURS HOLDING 93 Loans to the public, split by stage and provision, corporate sector G24 BONDS AND OTHER INTEREST-BEARING SECURITIES 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Bonds Stage 1 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Nominal Fair value Carrying value Nominal Fair value Carrying Carrying amount, gross 344,189 312,931 amount amount value Provisions -3,615 -2,428 Corporate bonds 312,866 316,226 316,226 225,109 225,462 225,462 Carrying amount 340,574 310,503 Swedish mortgage institutions 752,601 760,006 760,006 869,081 878,159 878,159 Foreign mortgage institutions 142,090 142,114 142,114 91,103 91,540 91,540 Stage 2 Total 1,207,557 1,218,346 1,218,346 1,185,293 1,195,161 1,195,161 Carrying amount, gross 72,499 50,724 Of which, listed 1,207,557 1,218,346 1,218,346 1,185,293 1,195,161 1,195,161 Provisions -2,625 -345 Carrying amount 69,874 50,379 Remaining maturity Total performing at year end 416,688 363,655 0-1 years 298,290 299,300 299,300 234,613 234,825 234,825 Total provision, perfoming at year end -6,240 -2,773 1-3 years 467,645 473,369 473,369 639,224 647,406 647,406 More than 3 years 441,622 445,677 445,677 311,456 312,930 312,930 Stage 3 Total 1,207,557 1,218,346 1,218,346 1,185,293 1,195,161 1,195,161 Carrying amount, gross 55,174 41,952 Provisions -45,785 -33,998 Issuer's rating Carrying amount 9,389 7,954 AAA/Aaa 894,690 902,119 902,119 860,184 869,657 869,657 Total performing at year end 471,862 405,607 A+/A1 6,000 6,053 6,053 6,000 6,062 6,062 Total provision, perfoming at year end -52,025 -36,771 A/A2 20,490 20,510 20,510 A-/A3 22,000 22,212 22,212 122,000 122,114 122,114 Totals BBB+/Baa1 14,000 14,183 14,183 14,000 13,829 13,829 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 BBB/Baa2 40,232 40,553 40,553 8,098 8,067 8,067 Carrying amount gross, stage 1 23,687,685 22,511,152 BBB-/Baa3 21,158 21,408 21,408 23,000 22,691 22,691 Carrying amount gross, stage 2 5,259,502 3,377,690 BB+/Ba1 18,000 18,457 18,457 Carrying amount gross, stage 3 5,276,240 4,655,770 BB/Ba2 8,000 8,008 8,008 10,000 10,382 10,382 Carrying amount, gross 34,223,427 30,544,612 B+/B1 9,087 9,359 9,359 7,000 7,070 7,070 Provision stage 1 -174,601 -167,847 Unrated 174,390 175,994 175,994 114,521 114,779 114,779 Provision stage 2 -421,929 -312,399 Total 1,207,557 1,218,346 1,218,346 1,185,293 1,195,161 1,195,161 Provision stage 3 -2,282,110 -2,107,790 In the event the credit ratings differ, the lowest is used. Total provisions -2,878,640 -2,588,036 The credit rating of the lending programme is used for covered bonds. Carrying amount 31,344,787 27,956,576 Share of loans in stage 1, gross% 69.21% 73.70% Other interest-bearing securities Share of loans in stage 2, gross% 15.37% 11.06% 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Share of loans in stage 3, gross% 15.42% 15.24% Nominal Fair value Carrying value Nominal Fair value Carrying Share of loans in stage 1, net% 75.01% 79.92% amount amount value Share of loans in stage 2, net% 15.43% 10.96% Fixed income funds 39,907 40,009 40,009 37,932 36,827 36,827 Share of loans in stage 3, net% 9.55% 9.11% Structured products 30,000 30,599 30,599 30,000 30,580 30,580 Reserve ratio loans in stage 1 0.74% 0.75% Total 69,907 70,608 70,608 67,932 67,407 67,407 Reserve ratio loans in stage 2 8.02% 9.25% Reserve ratio loans in stage 3 43.25% 45.27% Total bonds and other interest-bearing securities 1,277,464 1,288,954 1,288,954 1,253,225 1,262,568 1,262,568 Reserve ratio performing loan 2.06% 1.86% Total reserve ratio loans 8.41% 8.47% G25 SUBORDINATED LOANS 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Nominal Fair value Carrying Nominal Fair value Carrying amount value amount value Subordinated loans 28,129 28,290 28,290 27,991 27,317 27,317 Total subordinated loans 28,129 28,290 28,290 27,991 27,317 27,317 Remaining maturity 0-1 years 3,391 3,446 3,446 1-3 years 5,738 5,897 5,897 3,339 3,423 3,423 More than 3 years 19,000 18,947 18,947 24,652 23,894 23,894 Total subordinated loans 28,129 28,290 28,290 27,991 27,317 27,317 Issuer's rating A/A2 19,000 18,947 18,947 19,000 18,515 18,515 A-/A3 3,391 3,446 3,446 BBB+/Baa1 3,339 3,423 3,423 BBB/Baa2 5,738 5,897 5,897 5,652 5,379 5,379 Total subordinated loans 28,129 28,290 28,290 27,991 27,317 27,317 In the event the credit ratings differ, the lowest is used. 94 RESURS HOLDING RESURS HOLDING 95 G26 SHARES AND PARTICIPATIONS G28 INTANGIBLE ASSETS The shareholdings largely comprise shares from Solid The Group views these shareholdings as strategic and 31/12/2019 Goodwill Internally Acquired Total Försäkringar’s investment portfolio. Resurs Bank has the assets were recognised at a total amount of SEK developed customer shareholdings comprising shares in Vipps AS, Dicopay 17,421 thousand on the closing date. software relations AB, Trademate ApS and in Kivra Oy. Opening cost 1,733,866 243,274 142,386 2,119,526 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Investments during the year 20,000 67,042 87,042 Divestments/disposals during the year -58,603 -58,603 Cost 94,406 78,542 Exchange-rate difference 34,452 3,358 3,664 41,474 Of which, listed 76,986 78,071 Total cost at year-end 1,788,318 255,071 146,050 2,189,439 Carrying value 95,823 68,556 Opening amortisation -88,038 -42,997 -131,035 Of which, listed 78,402 68,084 Amortisation of divested/disposed assets 58,603 58,603 Amortisation for the year -22,350 -13,375 -35,725 Fair value 95,823 68,556 Exchange-rate difference -2,300 -767 -3,067 Of which, listed 78,402 68,084 See note G44 Financial Instruments for additional information. Total accumulated amortisation at year-end 0 -54,085 -57,139 -111,224 Opening impairment -14,810 -14,810 Total accumulated impairment at year-end -14,810 0 0 -14,810 G27 DERIVATIVES 31/12/2019 Carrying amount 1,773,508 200,986 88,911 2,063,405 Nominal amount Remaining maturity Positive Negative marketmarket31/12/2018 Goodwill Internally Acquired Total < 1 year 1-5 years > 5 years Total values values developed customer Derivatives instruments, no hedge accounting software relations Currency related contracts Opening cost 1,709,728 144,188 139,819 1,993,735 Swaps 7,711,925 5,652 7,717,577 110,707 25,358 Investments during the year 97,182 97,182 Total 7,711,925 5,652 0 7,717,577 110,707 25,358 Exchange-rate difference 24,138 1,904 2,567 28,609 Total cost at year-end 1,733,866 243,274 142,386 2,119,526 Total derivatives 7,711,925 5,652 0 7,717,577 110,707 25,358 31/12/2018 Opening amortisation -72,162 -29,597 -101,759 Nominal amount Positive Negative Amortisation for the year -14,853 -13,328 -28,181 Remaining maturity marketmarketExchange-rate difference -1,023 -72 -1,095 < 1 year 1-5 years > 5 years Total values values Total accumulated amortisation at year-end 0 -88,038 -42,997 -131,035 Derivatives instruments, no hedge accounting Currency related contracts Opening impairment -14,810 -14,810 Swaps 8,730,010 5,567 8,735,577 190,175 12,984 Total accumulated impairment at year-end -14,810 0 0 -14,810 Total 8,730,010 5,567 0 8,735,577 190,175 12,984 Carrying amount 1,719,056 155,236 99,389 1,973,681 Total derivatives 8,730,010 5,567 0 8,735,577 190,175 12,984 Impairment testing of goodwill The forecasts are based primarily on an internal average return. The discount rate for this year’s impairment Goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives assessment based on historical performance and market test was 8.4 per cent (9.2) after tax. The corresponding rate are tested for impairment annually. The recoverable development of future income and cost trends, economic before tax was 10.0 per cent (11.6) for Consumer Loans and amount is determined based on estimates of value in use conditions, anticipated interest rate trend and 10.8 per cent (11.7) for Payment Solutions. using a discounted cash flow model with a five-year anticipated effects of future regulations. forecast period. The valuation is performed for each cashThe calculated value in use of goodwill is sensitive to a generating unit: Resurs Group segments, Consumer A forecast is conducted over the first five years based on number of variables that are significant to anticipated cash Loans, Payment Solutions and Insurance. Goodwill is a long-term growth rate assumption. The assessment is flows and the discount rate. The variables most significant to allocated to the segments based on expected future based on long-term assumptions about market growth the calculation are assumptions about interest rate and benefit. beyond the forecast period and the business’s actual economic trends, future margins and cost effectiveness. performance in relation to such growth. This year’s Anticipated future cash flows impairment test is based on the assumption of a 2 (2) per No reasonably possible change in the key assumptions would During the first five years, anticipated future cash flows cent long-term growth rate. Anticipated cash flows have affect the carrying amount of goodwill. are based on forecasts of risk-weighted volumes, income, been discounted using an interest rate based on a riskexpenses, credit losses and anticipated future capital free rate and risk adjustment corresponging to the requirements. market’s The following is a summary of goodwill allocated to each operating segment 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Opening Acquisitions ExchangeClosing carrying Opening ExchangeClosing carrying rate value carrying rate carrying value difference value difference value Payment Solutions 355,664 4,823 360,487 352,285 3,379 355,664 Consumer Loans 1,351,525 29,629 1,381,154 1,330,766 20,759 1,351,525 Insurance 11,867 20,000 31,867 11,867 11,867 Total 1,719,056 20,000 34,452 1,773,508 1,694,918 24,138 1,719,056 96 RESURS HOLDING RESURS HOLDING 97 G29 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT G34 DEPOSITS AND BORROWING FROM THE PUBLIC 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Equipment Deposits and borrowing in SEK 11,251,060 13,859,852 Cost at beginning of the year 116,143 86,248 Deposits and borrowing in NOK 6,517,642 6,337,350 Additional right-of-use assets in accordance with IFRS 16 111,707 Deposits and borrowing in EUR 6,640,330 380,951 Purchases during the year 1) 24,689 39,200 Total deposits and borrowing from the public 24,409,032 20,578,153 Divestments/disposals during the year -14,476 -12,497 Reclassifications 6,203 2,554 Retail sector 22,679,038 17,507,318 Exchange-rate difference 956 638 Corporate sector 1,729,994 3,070,834 Total cost at year-end 245,222 116,143 Total deposits and borrowing from the public 24,409,032 20,578,153 M a t ur it y Accumulated depreciation at beginning of the year -59,915 -46,294 The majority of deposits from the public are payable on demand; see also Note G3, Risk management. Accumulated depreciation of divested/disposed assets 13,402 10,099 Depreciation for the year -51,917 -20,858 Reclassifications -6,203 -2,554 G35 OTHER LIABILITIES Exchange-rate difference -718 -308 Total accumulated depreciation at year-end -105,351 -59,915 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Trade payables 62,916 72,914 Carrying amount 2) 139,871 56,228 Liabilities to representatives 264,079 349,386 1) Includes adjustment for IFRS 16 with SEK 7.7 million. Preliminary tax, interest on deposits 15,469 17,949 2) The carrying amount includes assets in an amount of SEK 95,403 thousand (0) for leases capitalised in accordance with IFRS 16. Provision for loyalty programmes 31,366 32,198 Liabilities for reinsurance 2,241 1,633 G30 REINSURER'S SHARE OF TECHNICAL PROVISIONS Other 318,416 206,536 Total other liabilities 694,487 680,616 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Unearned premiums and unexpired risks 3,460 3,453 Unsettled claims 416 814 G36 ACCRUED EXPENSES AND DEFERRED INCOME Total reinsurers' share of technical provisions 3,876 4,267 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Accrued interest expenses 35,864 10,616 G31 OTHER ASSETS Accrued personnel-related expenses 97,677 95,149 Accrued administrative expenses 69,487 68,466 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Deferred income, leasing 715 1,973 Receivables, leasing activities 302 1,299 Other deferred income 8,118 6,876 Receivables, factoring activities 2,317 3,854 Total accrued expenses and deferred income 211,861 183,080 Receivables, insurance brokers and representatives 50,058 68,543 Other 38,803 25,426 Total other assets 1) 91,480 99,122 G37 TECHNICAL PROVISIONS 1) Receivables from sales of debt collection have been reclassified to accrued income in the lending operations, refer to Note G32. The comparative figure for 2018 has been updated in accordance with this policy. 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Unearned premiums and unexpired risks Opening balance 512,220 423,574 G32 PREPAID EXPENSES AND ACCRUED INCOME Insurance written during the year 939,135 915,331 Premiums earned during the year -922,694 -853,865 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Exchange-rate difference 9,657 5,242 Prepaid expenses 73,687 60,820 Closing balance 538,318 490,282 Prepaid acquisition expenses, insurance operations 198,124 167,119 Accrued interest 14,496 10,219 Unsettled claims Accrued income, lending activities 1) 135,322 169,507 Opening balance 41,833 31,549 Total prepaid expenses and accrued income 421,629 407,665 1) Settled claims from previous financial years -25,264 -20,933 Receivables from sales of debt collection of SEK 115.6 million (96.6) have been reclassified from other assets to accrued income in the lending operations. The comparative figure for 2018 has been updated in accordance with this policy. Change in anticipated expense for claims incurred during previous years -3,996 -1,800 Exchange-rate difference -726 -573 Provision of the year 35,392 33,590 Closing balance 47,239 41,833 G33 LIABILITIES TO CREDIT INSTITUTIONS 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Total technical provisions at the end of the year 585,557 532,115 Loans in SEK 94,900 149,900 Total liabilities to credit institutions 94,900 149,900 98 RESURS HOLDING RESURS HOLDING 99 G38 OTHER PROVISIONS G40 SUBORDINATED DEBT 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 31/12/2019 Currency Nominal amount Interest rate Carrying Fair value amount Opening balance 22,861 24,660 Resurs Bank MTN 201 17/01/2027 1) SEK 300 000 Variable 298,771 307,341 Provisions made during the year -2,128 -1,881 2) SEK 300 000 Variable Resurs Bank MTN 202 12/03/2029 299,119 306,006 Exchange-rate difference -396 82 Total subordinated debt 597,890 613,347 Closing balance 20,337 22,861 31/12/2018 Currency Nominal amount Interest rate Carrying Fair value Provision of credit reserves, unutilised limit, Stage 1 11,925 9,762 amount Provision of credit reserves, unutilised limit, Stage 2 1,719 6,016 Resurs Bank MTN 201 17/01/2027 1) SEK 300 000 Variable 298,171 305,973 Other provisions 6,693 7,083 Total subordinated debt 298,171 305,973 1) The issuer is entitled to early repayment of the bonds from First Call Date 17/01/2022, provided that the issuer receives the approval of the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority. Closing balance 20,337 22,861 2) The issuer is entitled to early repayment of the bonds from First Call Date 12/03/2024, provided that the issuer receives the approval of the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority. The parent company and Resurs Bank have entered into an endowment insurance agreement for safeguarding pension obligations. The endowment insurance and obligations have been netted. The amount in other provisions, consists of payroll tax that are not covered in the insurance agreement SEK 2.2 million (2.0). The market value of the endowment insurance is SEK 16.5 million (14.8). G41 EQUITY Through the merger with Finaref AS, Resurs Bank AB's Norwegian branch office has defined-benefit pension plans. The provision is calculated annually on an actuarial basis to ensure the correct amount is allocated. The provision amounts to SEK 4.5 million (5). Shares Translation reserve The notes pay a floating rate coupon of 3 months STIBOR The number of shares in the Parent Company is Includes translation differences on consolidation of + 5.50%. 200,000,000, with a quotient value of SEK 0.005. the Group's foreign operations. G39 ISSUED SECURITIES Quotient value is defined as share capital divided by Changes in equity number of shares. See Note G20 for details on events Additional Tier 1 Capital See the statement of changes in equity for details on Resurs Bank has completed a securitisation of loan At the closing date, the external financing amounted Of the 11 issues, nine are senior unsecured bonds and two during the year. In December 2019, Resurs Holding issued SEK 300 changes in equity during the year. receivables, a form of structured financing, referred to SEK 2.9 billion (2.9) of the ABS financing. Because issues are Tier 2 capital of SEK 600 million (300). million Additional Tier 1 Capital notes. First call date to as Asset Backed Securities (ABS). This took place significant risks and benefits associated with the loan Profit or loss brought forward 11/12/2024, redemption requires an approval from the by transferring loan receivables to Resurs Bank’s receivables sold, these were not transferred to the Outside the programme, Resurs Bank also issued Tier 2 Refers to profit or loss carried forward from previous Financial Supervisory Authority. wholly owned subsidiaries Resurs Consumer Loans 1 subsidiary and are still reported in the bank’s balance capital (T2) of a nominal SEK 200 million (200) to the years less profit distribution. Limited In June 2019, an agreement was signed to sheet and profit and loss in accordance with IFRS 9. fellow subsidiary Solid Försäkringar. This subordinated extend the existing financing and Resurs Bank has, loan is recognised by Resurs Bank and Solid Försäkringar for a period of 18 months (revolving period), the right Resurs Bank has a funding programme for issuing but eliminated at Resurs Holding level. Change in translation reserve to continue selling certain additional loan receivables bonds, the programme amounts to SEK 8,000 million to Resurs Consumer Loans. (8,000). Within the programme, Resurs Bank has been Resurs Holding issued Additional Tier 1 Capital of a 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 working successfully to issue bonds on a regular basis nominal SEK 300 million (0). This Additional Tier 1 Capital Opening translation reserve 33,044 -14,192 On 31 December 2019, approximately SEK 3.6 billion in and sees itself as an established issuer on the market. is recognised under equity. loan receivables had been transferred to Resurs On the closing date, the programme had 11 issues Translation difference for the year, foreign operations 33,162 85,787 Consumer Loans. Resurs Bank and Resurs Consumer outstanding allocated over a nominal SEK 5,450 Hedge accounting reserve -38,551 Loans have provided security for the assets that million (4,250). Closing translation reserve 66,206 33,044 form part of the securitisation. 31/12/2019 Currency Nominal amount Interest rate Carrying Fair value G42 PLEDGED ASSETS, CONTINGENT LIBILITIES AND COMMITMENTS amount Resurs Bank MTN 103 24/02/2020 SEK 300,000 Variable 275,977 276,323 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Resurs Bank MTN 104 16/03/2021 SEK 500,000 Variable 499,547 504,230 Lending to credit institutions 1) 161,910 166,728 Resurs Bank MTN 105 29/05/2020 SEK 600,000 Variable 549,877 551,496 Lending to the public 2) 3,556,373 3,617,840 Resurs Bank MTN 106 07/12/2020 SEK 350,000 Variable 349,836 351,670 Assets for which policyholders have priority rights 3) 1,045,193 940,173 Resurs Bank MTN 107 31/08/2020 SEK 600,000 Variable 599,800 602,124 Restricted bank deposits 4) 30,887 28,190 Resurs Bank MTN 108 16/06/2021 SEK 500,000 Variable 499,645 503,280 Total collateral pledged for own liabilities 4,794,363 4,752,931 Resurs Bank MTN 109 30/08/2021 SEK 700,000 Variable 699,418 704,732 Resurs Bank MTN 110 31/05/2022 SEK 600,000 Variable 599,276 603,546 Contingent liabilities Resurs Bank MTN 111 29/08/2022 SEK 700,000 Variable 698,980 701,022 Guarantees 311 Resurs Consumer Loans 1 Ltd ABS SEK 2,900,000 Variable 2,899,991 2,915,700 Total contingent liabilities 0 311 Total issued securities 7,672,347 7,714,123 Other commitments 31/12/2018 Currency Nominal amount Interest rate Carrying Fair value Unutilised credit facilities granted 27,546,215 27,533,519 amount The insurance operation’s has registered assets as per Ch. 7 § 11 of the Insurance Business Act. In the event of insolvency, policyholders have priority in the registered assets. In the course of its Resurs Bank MTN 102 31/08/2019 SEK 400,000 Variable 399,734 402,160 business, the company has the right to register and deregister assets as long as all insurance commitments are covered pursuant to the Insurance Business Act. Resurs Bank MTN 103 24/02/2020 SEK 300,000 Variable 299,827 301,134 Unutilised credit granted refers to externally granted credit. All unutilised credit facilities granted are terminable with immediate effect to the extent allowed under the Swedish Consumer Credit Act. Resurs Bank MTN 104 16/03/2021 SEK 500,000 Variable 499,172 503,500 Resurs Bank MTN 105 29/05/2020 SEK 600,000 Variable 599,577 601,794 1) Lending to credit institutions refers to funds pledged as collateral for the fulfilment of commitments to payment intermediaries. Resurs Bank MTN 106 07/12/2020 SEK 350,000 Variable 349,661 349,913 2) Relating to securitisation, Issued securities see Note G39, 3) Technical provisions, net, amounts to SEK -583.9 million (-527.8), which means that total surplus of registered assets amounts to SEK 461.3 million (412.3). Resurs Bank MTN 107 31/08/2020 SEK 600,000 Variable 599,502 601,380 4) As at 31 December 2019, SEK 27.4 million (26.7) in reserve requirement account at the Bank of Finland and, SEK 0.2 million (2.0) in tax account at Norwegian DNB, and SEK 3.3 million (-0.5) in tax Resurs Bank MTN 108 16/06/2021 SEK 500,000 Variable 499,402 500,450 account at Danske Bank. Resurs Bank MTN 109 30/08/2021 SEK 700,000 Variable 699,068 699,650 Resurs Bank MTN 301 20/05/2019 NOK 400,000 Variable 409,722 410,456 Resurs Consumer Loans 1 Ltd ABS SEK 2,900,000 Variable 2,897,678 2,910,108 Resurs Bank 17/19 FRN 03/04/2019 NOK 400,000 Variable 409,800 410,456 Resurs Bank 17/19 FRN 25/10/2019 NOK 165,000 Variable 169,043 169,532 Total issued securities 7,832,186 7,860,533 100 RESURS HOLDING RESURS HOLDING 101 G43 RELATED PARTIES G44 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Ownership Fair value at Fair value through Fair value Total carrying Fair value 31/12/2019 Resurs Holding AB, corporate identity number 556898Assets and liabilities, and dividends between Resurs and therefore has significant influence over the company. amortised cost profit or loss through other amount 2291, is owned at 31 December 2019 to 28.9 per cent by Holding AB (parent company) and other Group The SIBA Invest Group includes NetOnNet AB. SIBA Invest AB compreWaldakt AB. Of the remaining owners, no single owner companies, are specified in the respective notes to the is owned by the Bengtsson family, which also controls SIBA hensive holds 20 per cent or more. Cidron Semper S.A.R.L (Nordic statement of financial position. Fastigheter AB (formerly AB Remvassen). income Capital) had positions on the Board of Resurs Holding and was included in the Note Related-party Related parties Other companies with controlling or Transactions with these companies are reported below Assets transactions up to and including 2 October 2019. significant influence under the heading Other companies with control or Financial assets Nordic Capital Fund VII via Cidron Semper S.A.R.L has significant influence. Transaction costs in the table refer to Related parties Group companies had a significant influence over Resurs Holding AB. Ellos market-rate compensation for the negotiation of credit to Cash and balances at central banks 220,799 220,799 220,799 The Group is comprised of the operating companies Group AB is another company controlled by Nordic related companies’ customers. Treasury and other bills eligible for refinancing 1,758,835 1,758,835 1,758,835 Resurs Holding AB, which are the parent company in the Capital Funds VII and with which the Group has Lending to credit institutions 4,128,953 4,128,953 4,128,953 Group, and the subsidiaries Resurs Bank AB, Solid conducted transactions. Cidron Semper S.A.R.L sold its All assets/liabilites items for related companies are interest Försäkrings AB and Resurs Förvaltning Norden AB. holdings to Ellos Group AB at the start of July 2019. The bearing. Lending to the public 31,344,787 31,344,787 31,900,633 Please see below for complete Group structure. table below includes transactions with Ellos Group AB Bonds and other interest-bearing securities 1,288,954 1,288,954 1,288,954 until 30 June 2019. Group companies are reported according to the Subordinated loans 28,290 28,290 28,290 acquisition method, with internal transactions SIBA Invest AB (formerly Waldir AB) owns 28.9 per cent Shares and participations 95,823 95,823 95,823 eliminated at the Group level. of Resurs Holding AB directly and indirectly via Waldakt Derivatives 110,707 110,707 110,707 AB Other assets 90,886 90,886 90,886 Accrued income 149,817 149,817 149,817 Related parties Key Resurs Holding AB personnel Total financial assets 35,935,242 3,282,609 0 39,217,851 39,773,697 Kenneth Nilsson CEO Resurs Holding AB Jan Samuelson Chairman of the Board of Resurs Holding AB, stepped down at the Extraordinary General Meeting on 2 October 2019 Intangible assets 2,063,405 Martin Bengtsson Chairman of the Board of Resurs Holding AB, took office at the Extraordinary General Meeting on 2 October 2019 Property, plant & equipment 139,871 Johanna Berlinde Director of Resurs Holding AB, took office at the Annual General Meeting on 25 April 2019 Other non-financial assets 327,621 Christian Frick Director of Resurs Holding AB, stepped down at the Extraordinary General Meeting on 2 October 2019 Total assets 35,935,242 3,282,609 0 41,748,748 Anders Dahlvig Director of Resurs Holding AB Fredrik Carlsson Director of Resurs Holding AB Lars Nordstrand Director of Resurs Holding AB 31/12/2019 Fair value through Fair value at Total carrying Fair value profit or loss amortised cost amount Mariana Burenstam Linder Director of Resurs Holding AB Marita Odélius Engström Director of Resurs Holding AB Mikael Wintzell Director of Resurs Holding AB Liabilities Key personnel Financial liabilities Information about transactions between related party key personnel and remuneration of these individuals can be found in Note G15, Personnel. Liabilities to credit institutions 94,900 94,900 94,900 Transactions with other companies with significant influence Deposits and borrowing from the public 24,409,032 24,409,032 24,409,563 2019 2018 Derivatives 25,358 25,358 25,358 Transaction costs -256,616 -452,009 Other Liabilities 572,107 572,107 572,107 Interest expenses, deposits and borrowing from the public -4,956 -6,390 Accrued expenses 172,310 172,310 172,310 Fee & commission income 18,525 36,912 Issued securities 7,672,347 7,672,347 7,714,123 Fee & commission expenses -45,034 -45,921 Subordinated debt 597,890 597,890 613,347 General administrative expenses -13,845 -27,232 Total financial liabilities 25,358 33,518,586 33,543,944 33,601,708 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Provisions 20,337 Other assets 10,407 Other non-financial liabilities 1,043,221 Deposits and borrowing from the public -207,362 -953,166 Equity 7,141,246 Other liabilities -32,644 -114,386 Total liabilities and equity 25,358 33,518,586 41,748,748 Transactions with key personnel 2019 2018 Interest expenses, deposits and borrowing from the public -87 -237 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Deposits and borrowing from the public -11,907 -39,827 Group structure Resurs Holding AB Resurs Resurs Bank AB Solid Försäkrings AB Förvaltning Norden AB Resurs Consumer Resurs Norden AB Loans 1 Ltd 102 RESURS HOLDING RESURS HOLDING 103 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The table below shows financial instruments Other observable inputs for assets or liabilities Note G2, Accounting policies provides details on the 31/12/2018 Fair value at Fair value through Fair value Total carrying Fair value measured at fair value, based on classification in the other than listed prices included in level 1 directly determination of fair value for financial assets and amortised cost profit or loss through other amount fair value hierarchy. (i.e., price quotations) or indirectly (i.e., derived from liabilities at fair value through the statement of financial compreprice quotations) (level 2) position. Carrying amounts for current receivables, hensive income Levels are defined as follows: current liabilities and deposits and loans to the public are Listed prices (unadjusted) in active markets for Inputs for assets or liabilities that are not based on deemed to reflect fair value. Assets identical assets or liabilities (level 1) observable market data (i.e., unobservable inputs) (level 3) Financial assets Cash and balances at central banks 63,215 63,215 63,215 Financial assets valued through fair value Treasury and other bills eligible for refinancing 1,009,021 1,009,021 1,009,021 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Lending to credit institutions 3,703,650 3,703,650 3,703,650 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Lending to the public 27,956,576 27,956,576 28,575,822 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss: Bonds and other interest-bearing securities 1,262,568 1,262,568 1,262,568 Treasury and other bills eligible for refinancing 1,758,835 1,009,021 Subordinated loans 27,317 27,317 27,317 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities 1,288,954 1,262,568 Shares and participations 68,556 68,556 68,556 Subordinated loans 28,290 27,317 Derivatives 190,175 190,175 190,175 Shares and participations 78,402 17,421 67,554 1,002 Other assets 95,119 95,119 95,119 Derivatives 110,707 190,175 Accrued income 179,726 179,726 179,726 Total 3,154,481 110,707 17,421 2,366,460 190,175 1,002 Total financial assets 31,998,286 2,557,637 0 34,555,923 35,175,169 Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss: Intangible assets 1,973,681 Derivatives -25,358 -12,984 Property, plant & equipment 56,228 Total 0 -25,358 0 0 -12,984 0 Other non-financial assets 369,640 Total assets 31,998,286 2,557,637 0 36,955,472 Changes within level 3 2019 2018 Fair value through Fair value at Total carrying Fair value Shares and participations 31/12/2018 profit or loss amortised cost amount Opening balance 1,002 979 Additions during the yeasr 16,966 Liabilities Divestments during the year -514 Financial liabilities Exchange-rate difference -33 23 Liabilities to credit institutions 149,900 149,900 149,900 Closing balance 17,421 1,002 Deposits and borrowing from the public 20,578,153 20,578,153 20,576,353 Financial instruments measured at fair value for disclosure purposes Derivatives 12,984 12,984 12,984 The carrying amount of variable rate deposits and based on valuation at the listing marketplace. Fair The fair value of the portion of lending that has been sent Other Liabilities 648,507 648,507 648,507 borrowing from the public is deemed to reflect fair value has been classified as level 1. to debt recovery and purchased non-performing value. consumer loans is calculated by discounting calculated Accrued expenses 145,162 145,162 145,162 Fair value of issued securities (MTN) is calculated cash flows at the estimated market interest rate instead Issued securities 7,832,186 7,832,186 7,860,533 For fixed rate deposits and borrowing from the public, based on the listing marketplace. Fair value has been of at the original effective interest rate. Fair value has Subordinated debt 298,171 298,171 305,973 fair value is calculated based on current market rates, classified as level 1. been classified as level 2. with the initial credit spread for deposits kept Total financial liabilities 12,984 29,652,079 29,665,063 29,699,412 constant. Fair value has been classified as level 2. For issued securities (ABS), fair value is calculated by The carrying amount of current receivables and liabilities assuming that duration ends at the close of the and variable rate loans is deemed to reflect fair value. Provisions 22,861 Fair value of subordinated debt is calculated revolving period. Fair value has been classified as level 3. Other non-financial liabilities 919,007 Equity 6,348,541 Transfer between levels Total liabilities and equity 12,984 29,652,079 36,955,472 Transfer between levels There has not been any transfer of financial instruments between the levels. Financial assets and liabilities that are offset or subject to netting agreements Derivative agreement has been made under the ISDA Most of the derivatives at 31 December 2019 (also collateral is obtained and provided in the form of bank agreement. The amounts are not offset in the applied 31/12/2018) were covered by the ISDA Credit deposits between the parties. statement of financial position. Support Annex, which means that Related agreements 31/12/2019 Related agreements 31/12/2018 Gross Master Collateral Net amount Gross amount in Master Collateral Net amount amount in netting received/ the balance netting received/ the balance agreement pledged sheet agreement pledged sheet Derivatives 110,707 -110,707 0 190,175 -12,984 -149,900 27,291 Total assets 110,707 -110,707 0 0 190,175 -12,984 -149,900 27,291 Derivatives -25,358 110,707 -94,900 -9,551 -12,984 12,984 0 Total liabilities -25,358 110,707 -94,900 -9,551 -12,984 12,984 0 0 104 RESURS HOLDING RESURS HOLDING 105 G45 SUBSEQUENT EVENTS There is a risk that COVID-19 with have a negative financial impact for Resurs Holding. There is an immediate risk of lower sales in the retail sector, and in the slightly Statements and notes Parent company longer term, the risk of higher unemployment and thus a reduced ability to pay. The scope of the financial and macroeconomic effects depends on the extent and length of the course of events. Resurs Holding has solid procedures for monitoring and contingency planning for economic fluctuations. We are continuously following, analysing and mitigating current developments and our procedures have been sharpened in this uncertain situation. KEY RATIOS SEK thousand 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Net sales 24,865 25,511 20,050 23,762 18,502 G46 KEY ESTIMATES AND ASSESSMENTS Profit/loss after financial items 706,175 768,257 629,201 455,921 -61,485 When preparing financial statements in accordance for example, a changed business climate or decision Other provisions Balance sheet total 2,927,344 2,616,976 2,476,467 2,695,767 2,200,354 with IFRS and generally accepted accounting to divest or discontinue operations. Impairment is The amount recognised as a provision is the best, Equity/Assets ratio (%) 99.3 99.4 99.6 99.6 97.7 principles, management needs to proactively make recognised if the estimated value in use exceeds the estimate of the expenditure required to settle a present certain estimates, assumptions and evaluations. carrying amount. A description of impairment testing obligation at the reporting date. Earnings may be Average number of employees 2 2 2 2 2 These are based on historical experience and current for the year is provided in Note G28. affected if an estimate has been made that is not factors, which are considered fair and reasonable. consistent with the actual outcome. The results of these professional estimates and Impairment of credit losses assessments affect the reported amounts of assets, The calculation of credit losses is based on Technical provisions liabilities, income and expenses in the financial calculating the expected credit losses. The Technical provisions are based on estimates and statements. Actual outcomes may differ from these impairment model includes a three-stage model assumptions made regarding future claims costs and, estimates and assumptions. The Group has made the based on changes in the credit quality of financial accordingly, are always associated with uncertainty. assets. The assets are divided into three different Estimates are based on historical statistics on earlier following critical estimates in applying significant accounting policies: stages depending on how credit risk has changed claims outcomes that are available at the preparation of PARENT COMPANY INCOME STATEMENT classification and measurement of financial since the asset was initially recognised in the balance the annual accounts. The uncertainty associated with instruments sheet. Stage 1 encompasses assets for which there estimates is generally greater in estimates of new SEK thousand Note 2019 2018 impairment testing of goodwill and other assets has not been a significant increase in credit risk, insurance portfolios. In estimating technical provisions, Net sales P3 24,865 25,511 impairment of credit losses stage 2 encompasses assets for which there has been the amount of unpaid claims, claims trend, changes in other provisions a significant increase in credit risk, while stage 3 legislation, court rulings and the general economic trend technical provisions encompasses defaulted assets. are taken into account. Operating expenses Classification and measurement of financial The provision of expected credit losses for assets is Estimates and assumptions are reviewed on a regular Personnel expenses P6 -20,444 -19,506 instruments governed by the category to which the assets belong. basis. Changes to estimates are recognised in the period Other external expenses P4,P5 -28,561 -25,487 The accounting policies in Note G2 define the way in Provisions are made under stage 1 for expected of the change if the change affects only that period. Depreciation, amortisation and impairment of tangible and intangible assets of non-current assets -57 which assets and liabilities are to be classified in the credit losses within 12 months, while provisions for Changes are recognised in the period of the change and various categories. Fair value measurement of stage 2 and 3 are made for expected credit losses future periods if the change affects both. Total operating expenses -49,005 -45,050 financial instruments may lead to some uncertainty, under the full lifetime of the assets. Calculations of as prevailing interest rates and market conditions expected credit losses include forward-looking Operating profit/loss -24,140 -19,539 may change quickly and affect the value of the asset. information based on the macroeconomic outlook. The Group has decided to base the forward-looking Impairment testing of goodwill and other assets calculations on a macroeconomic variable that from Profit/loss from financial items Goodwill is tested for impairment annually when the a historical perspective has proven to correlate well annual accounts are prepared or as soon as changes with changes in the Group’s credit losses. Profit/loss from participations in Group companies P7 731,200 787,219 indicate that impairment is required, Other interest income and similar profit/loss items 135 674 Interest expenses and similar profit/loss items -1,020 -97 Total profit/loss from financial items 730,315 787,796 Profit/loss after financial items 706,175 768,257 Appropriations P9 62,000 65,000 Tax on profit for the year P8 -8,139 -10,034 Profit/loss for the year 760,036 823,223 Portion attributable to Resurs Holding AB shareholders 757,069 823223 Portion attributable to additional Tier 1 capital holders 2,967 Profit/loss for the year 760,036 823,223 PARENT COMPANY STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME SEK thousand 2019 2018 Profit/loss for the year 760,036 823,223 Other comprehensive income that may be reversed to profit/loss Total comprehensive income 760,036 823,223 Portion attributable to Resurs Holding AB shareholders 757,069 823,223 Portion attributable to additional Tier 1 capital holders 2,967 Comprehensive income for the year 760,036 823,223 106 RESURS HOLDING RESURS HOLDING 107 PARENT COMPANY BALANCE SHEET PARENT COMPANY STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY SEK thousand Share Share Additional Profit/loss Profit for Total equity SEK thousand Note 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 capital premium Tier 1 brought the year Assets reserve instruments forward Financial non-current assets Equity at 1 January 2018 1,000 1,785,613 0 0 680,316 2,466,929 Participations in Group companies P10 2,253,410 2,053,410 Owner transactions Total non-current assets 2,253,410 2,053,410 Dividends paid -360,000 -360,000 Dividends according to Extraordinary General Meeting -9,684 -320,316 -330,000 Current assets Current receivables Appropriation of profits according to resolution by Annual General Meeting 680,316 -680,316 0 Receivables from Group companies 439,397 397,180 Profit for the year 823,223 823,223 Deferred tax asset P8 571 449 Equity at 31 December 2018 1,000 1,775,929 0 0 823,223 2,600,152 Other current receivables 8,418 Prepaid expenses and accrued income P11 955 334 Equity at 1 January 2019 1,000 1,775,929 0 0 823,223 2,600,152 Total current receivables 449,341 397,963 Owner transactions Dividends paid -390,000 -390,000 Cash and bank balances 224,593 165,603 Dividends according to Extraordinary General Meeting -360,000 -360,000 Total current assets 673,934 563,566 Issued additional Tier 1 instruments 300,000 300,000 Total assets 2,927,344 2,616,976 Cost additional Tier 1 instruments -2,967 -2,967 Appropriation of profits according to resolution by Annual General Meeting 823,223 -823,223 0 Equity and liabilities Profit for the year 760,036 760,036 Equity P13 Equity at 31 December 2019 1,000 1,775,929 300,000 70,256 760,036 2,907,221 Restricted equity See Note P13 for additional information on equity. Share capital 1,000 1,000 Non-restricted equity Share premium reserve 1,775,929 1,775,929 PARENT COMPANY CASH FLOW STATEMENT Additional Tier 1 instruments 300,000 Profit or loss brought forward 70,256 SEK thousand Note 2019 2018 Profit for the year 760,036 823,223 Operating activities Total non-restricted equity 2,906,221 2,599,152 Operating profit/loss -24,140 -19,539 Total equity 2,907,221 2,600,152 Adjustment for non-cash items in operating profit/loss 120 195 Interest paid -1,021 -97 Provisions Interest received 135 674 Other provisions 519 399 Income taxes paid -9,733 -1,844 Cash flow from operating activities before changes in operating assets and liabilities -34,639 -20,611 Current liabilities Trade payables 2,153 294 Cash flow from working capital change Liabilities to Group companies 490 500 Other assets 51,823 55,235 Current tax liabilities 10,291 11,885 Other liabilities 4,773 -1,041 Other current liabilities 434 700 Cash flow from operating activities 21,957 33,583 Accrued expenses and deferred income P12 6,236 3,046 Total current liabilities 19,604 16,425 Investing activities Total equity and liabilities 2,927,344 2,616,976 Shareholders' contribution -200,000 For information on pledged assets, contingent liabilities and commitments, see Note P14. Dividend received P7 690,000 819,999 Cash flow from investing activities 490,000 819,999 Financing activities Dividends paid -750,000 -690,000 Additional Tier 1 instruments 297,033 Cash flow from financing activities -452,967 -690,000 Cash flow for the year 58,990 163,582 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 165,603 2,021 Cash and cash equivalents at year-end 224,593 165,603 Adjustment for non-cash items Depreciation, amortisation and impairment of assets 57 Other provisions 120 138 Total adjustment for non-cash items 120 195 Liquid assets consist of cash and bank balances. 108 RESURS HOLDING RESURS HOLDING 109 P6 PERSONNEL Notes Salaries 2019 -13,419 2018 -12,530 Social insurance costs -4,413 -4,601 P1 PARENT COMPANY ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES Pension costs -1,559 -1,688 The Parent Company applies the same accounting For the Parent Company, the terms balance sheet Transaction costs associated with acquisitions are Other personnel expenses -1,053 -687 principles as the Group, any differences between the and cash flow statements are used for reports that added to the cost in the Parent Company and are Total personnel expenses -20,444 -19,506 accounting principles are described below. The are referred to as statement of financial position and eliminated in the Group. differences compared with the consolidated financial statement of cash flows in the Group. The income statements that apply in the Parent Company’s statement and the balance sheet for the Parent Income Salaries and other benefits income statement and balance sheet mainly Company are presented according to the format of Service assignments are recognised in the Parent Board, CEO and other senior executives -13,419 -12,530 comprise the recognition of financial income, the Annual Accounts Act, while the statement of Company’s income statement in accordance with expenses and assets. The Parent Company changes in equity and cash flow statement are based Chapter 2, Section 4 of the Annual Accounts Act when Total salaries and other benefits -13,419 -12,530 recognises its leases in accordance with the on IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements and the service has been completed. Amounts invoiced by individuals for their services to the company is in the Group recognised as general administrative expenses and in the Parent Company as personnel expenses. exemption allowed in RFR 2. IAS 7 Statement of Cash flows. The Management has changed during the year. Appropriations The Parent Company prepares its annual report in The consolidated financial statements and the Appropriations comprise provisions, reversals of accordance with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act annual report are presented in SEK thousand unless untaxed reserves and Group contributions. Group (1995:1554) and the Swedish Financial Reporting otherwise indicated. contributions and shareholders’ contributions are Remuneration and other benefits Board’s RFR 2 Accounting for Legal Entities. The recognised in accordance with the alternative rule in 2019 Basic Variable Other Pensions Total regulations in RFR 2 stipulate that the Parent Changed accounting principles in the Parent RFR 2. This means that both received and paid Group salary/ remunebenefits Company, in the annual accounts for the legal entity, Company contributions are recognised as appropriations Board fees ration is to apply all IFRSs and statements adopted by the No changes to accounting principles that are to be through profit or loss. Board and CEO EU to the extent that this is possible within the applied to financial years beginning on or after 1 framework of the Annual Accounts Act with January 2019 or later have had, or are deemed to Martin Bengtsson, Chairman -710 -710 consideration to the relationship between accounting have, a material effect on the Parent Company. Jan Samuelson (resigned 02/10/2019, former Chairman) -1,065 -1,065 and taxation. Christian Frick (resigned 02/10/2019) -367 -367 Shares and participations in Group companies The deviations arising between the Parent Shares and participations in Group companies are Lars Nordstrand -723 -723 Company’s and the Group’s accounting principles are recognised according to the cost method. Dividends Fredrik Carlsson -465 -465 due to the limitations on the possibility of applying received are recognised as income when the right to Anders Dahlvig -440 -440 IFRS in the Parent Company, as a result of the Annual receive payment is deemed certain. Accounts Act and the Pension Obligations Vesting Mariana Burenstam Linder -582 -582 Act. Marita Odélius Engström -594 -594 Mikael Wintzell -440 -440 Johanna Berlinde (elected 09/04/2019) -293 -293 P2 RISK MANAGEMENT Kenneth Nilsson, CEO -4,697 -214 -1,063 -5,974 2) There are no additional risks in the Parent Company other than those found in the Group. The Group's risk management is detailed in Note G3. Other senior executives (1 individuals) -4,215 -129 -379 -4,723 Total remuneration and other benefits -14,591 0 -343 -1,442 -16,376 P3 INTRA-GROUP PURCHASES AND SALES 2018 Basic Variable Other Pensions Total salary/ remunebenefits One hundred per cent (100) of total revenue for the year is attributable to sales to other Group companies. Board fees ration Costs in this table are provided for market-rate remuneration in line with administration costs. Board and CEO 1) Jan Samuelson, Chairman -1,516 -1,516 Transactions with subsidiaries Christian Frick -477 -477 2019 2018 Martin Bengtsson -460 -460 Lars Nordstrand 1) -745 -745 General administrative expenses -4,351 -4,697 Fredrik Carlsson 1) -469 -469 1) Anders Dahlvig -469 -469 P4 OTHER EXTERNAL EXPENSES Mariana Burenstam Linder 1) -607 -607 Marita Odélius Engström -552 -552 2019 2018 Mikael Wintzell -293 -293 Consultancy expenses -6,912 -3,691 Kenneth Nilsson, CEO -4,773 -163 -1,030 -5,966 Other external expenses -21,649 -21,796 Other senior executives (1 individuals) -2,894 -124 -471 -3,490 Total other external expenses -28,561 -25,487 Total remuneration and other benefits -13,254 0 -288 -1,500 -15,042 1) Payment was made to Board members company; amount includes compensation for additional taxes. 2) The item also includes amounts invoiced by individuals for their services to the company. The Group recognises these as general administrative expenses and the Parent Company recognises them as other external expenses. P5 AUDITORS FEE AND EXPENSES 2019 2018 Pension costs Ernst & Young AB 2019 2018 Audit services -722 -800 Board, CEO and other senior executives -1,559 -1,688 Other assistance arising from audit -103 -165 Total -1,559 -1,688 Total auditors fee and expenses -825 -965 Audit services comprise the examination of the annual financial statements and accounting records and the administration of the Board of Directors and CEO. They also include other procedures required to be carried out by the Parent Company's auditors, as well as advice or other assistance arising from observations made during the audit or while performing such other procedures. 110 RESURS HOLDING RESURS HOLDING 111 Board members and senior executives at the end of the year P10 PARTICIPATIONS IN GROUP COMPANIES 2019 2018 Subsidiaries and indirect subsidiaries Share of Of which, Of which, Share of voting Number Book value Number Number men men Corp. ID no. Domicile equity power of shares 31/12/2019 Board members 8 63% 9 78% Resurs Bank AB 516401-0208 Helsingborg 100 100 500,000 2,221,690 1) CEO and other senior executives 6 50% 7 57% Resurs Norden AB 556634-3280 Helsingborg 100 100 1) Resurs Consumer Loans 1 Ltd 559768 Dublin 100 100 The number refers to all other senior executives and not only the number who received a salary from the Parent Company. Additional details on remuneration policy, pensions and terms are provided in Note G15. Solid Försäkrings AB 516401-8482 Helsingborg 100 100 30,000 31,600 Resurs Förvaltning Norden AB 559067-0690 Helsingborg 100 100 100,000 120 Average numbers of employees Total book value, participations in Group companies 2,253,410 2019 2018 Men Women Total Men Women Total Share of Sweden Share of voting Number Book value 2 2 2 2 Corp. ID no. Domicile equity power of shares 31/12/2018 Total 2 0 2 2 0 2 Resurs Bank AB 516401-0208 Helsingborg 100 100 500,000 2,021,690 Resurs Norden AB 556634-3280 Helsingborg 100 100 Resurs Consumer Loans 1 Ltd 559768 Dublin 100 100 P7 PROFT/LOSS FROM PARTICIPATIONS IN GROUP COMPANIES Solid Försäkrings AB 516401-8482 Helsingborg 100 100 30,000 31,600 Resurs Förvaltning Norden AB 559067-0690 Helsingborg 100 100 100,000 120 2019 2018 Total book value, participations in Group companies 2,053,410 Dividend from Resurs Bank AB 360,000 330,000 Dividend from Solid Försäkrings AB 129,999 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Anticipated dividend from Resurs Bank AB 375,000 330,000 Opening acquisition cost 2,053,410 2,053,390 Impairment of receivable Resurs Förvaltning Norden AB -3,800 -2,780 Share capital Resurs Förvaltning Norden AB 20 Total 731,200 787,219 Shareholders contributions Resurs Bank AB 200,000 Total accumulated amortisation at year-end 2,253,410 2,053,410 P8 TAXES Closing residual value according to plan 2,253,410 2,053,410 Current tax expense 2019 2018 Current tax for the year -8,112 -10,151 P11 PREPAID EXPENSES AND ACCRUED INCOME Adjustment of tax relating to prior years -149 -38 Current tax expense -8,261 -10,189 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Prepaid expenses 955 334 Deferred tax on temporary differences 122 155 Total prepaid expenses and accrued income 955 334 Total tax expense reported in income statement -8,139 -10,034 Reconciliation of effective tax 2019 2018 P12 ACCRUED EXPENSES AND DEFERRED INCOME Profit before tax 768,175 833,257 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Tax at prevailing tax rate -21.4% -164,389 -22.0% -183,317 Accrued interest 928 Non-deductible expenses/non-taxable income 20.4% 156,399 20.8% 173,321 Accrued personnel-related expenses 1,583 1,912 Tax attributable to prior years 0.0% -149 0.0% -38 Accrued administrative expenses 3,725 1,134 Recognised effective tax -1.1% -8,139 -1.2% -10,034 Total accrued expenses and deferred income 6,236 3,046 Change in deferred tax 2019 2018 Tax effects attributable to temporary differences, pensions 122 155 Total deferred tax 122 155 Deferred tax assets 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Deferred tax assets for pensions, net 571 449 Total deferred tax assets 571 449 P9 APPROPRIATIONS 2019 2018 Group contribution, received 62,000 65,000 Total 62,000 65,000 112 RESURS HOLDING RESURS HOLDING 113 P13 EQUITY SIGNATURES OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND THE CEO Shares Profit/loss carried forward Changes in equity The number of shares in the Parent Company totals Refers to profit or loss carried forward from previous For details on changes in equity during period, see 200,000,000, with a quotient value of SEK 0.005. years less profit distribution. the Parent Company's statement of changes in The Board of Directors and the CEO give their assurance that the annual accounts have been prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Quotient value is defined as share capital divided by equity. Principles in Sweden, and the consolidated accounts in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as referenced by the European the number of shares. See Note G20 for additional Parliament and the Council directive (EC) 1606/2002 dated 19 July 2002 on the application of international accounting standards. The annual accounts and information. consolidated accounts give a true and fair view of the Parent Company’s and the Group’s financial position and results of operations. The Administration Reports for the Parent Company and the Group give a true and fair view of the development of the Parent Company’s and the Group’s operations, position and results and describe the significant risks and uncertainties to which the Parent Company and the Group companies are exposed. Proposed allocation of profits Unappropriated earnings in the Parent Company at the disposal of the Annual General Me 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 As specified above, the Parent Company’s and the Group’s annual accounts were approved for publication by the Board of Directors on 17 March 2020. The income statements and balance sheets will be presented to the Annual General Meeting for approval on 29 April 2020. Share premium reserve 1,775,928,446 1,785,612,857 Profit/loss brought forward 70,255,719 -9,684,411 Net profit for the year 760,036,260 823,222,879 Total 2,606,220,425 2,599,151,325 The Board of Directors propose that these earnings be appropriated as follows (SEK): Helsingborg 17 March 2020 Dividends to shareholders SEK 2.10 (1.95) per share 420,000,000 390,000,000 Carried forward 2,186,220,425 2,209,151,325 Total 2,606,220,425 2,599,151,325 Kenneth Nilsson The Board believes that the proposed dividend is justifiable with respect to the requirements that the nature, scope and risks of the operations impose on the size of the Parent Company’s and the Group’s equity, consolidation requirements, liquidity and financial position. Chief Executive Officer P14 PLEDGED ASSETS, CONTINGENT LIABILITIES AND COMMITMENTS The Board of Directors, Resurs Holding AB has no pledged assets. Accourding to the Board's assessment, Resurs Holding AB has no contingent liabilities. Martin Bengtsson Chairman of the Board Johanna Berlinde Mariana Burenstam Linder Fredrik Carlsson Member of the Board Member of the Board Member of the Board Anders Dahlvig Lars Nordstrand Marita Odélius Engström Member of the Board Member of the Board Member of the Board Mikael Wintzell Member of the Board Our audit report was submitted on 17 March 2020 Ernst & Young AB Niklas Paulsson Authorized Public Accountant 114 RESURS HOLDING RESURS HOLDING 115 Auditor’s report Lending to the public and provision for credit losses Detailed information and description of the area is presented in the annual consolidated accounts. Credit risk exposure and how it is To the general meeting of the shareholders of Resurs Holding AB (publ), corporate identity number 556898-2291 managed is described in note G3 section Credit risk. The group’s reported credit losses are specified in note G18 and the provision for credit losses is specified in note G23. Regarding the area relevant accounting policies for the group, these can be found in note G2, section Credit losses and impairment of financial assets. Description How our audit addressed this key audit matter Report on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts As of 31 December 2019, lending to the public amounts to We have reviewed the group’s process of granting and accepting Opinions SEK 31 345 SEK million for the group. Lending to public credits. This review includes policies and guidelines, as well as We have audited the annual accounts and consolidated Our opinions in this report on the annual accounts and consists of outstanding gross receivables at the amount of the configuration of the processes focusing on identifying accounts of Resurs Holding AB (publ) except for the corporate consolidated accounts are consistent with the content of the SEK 34 223 million less provision for expected credit losses of significant risks of errors and controls in order to prevent and governance statement on pages 51-57 for the year 2019. The additional report that has been submitted to the parent SEK 2 879 million. The Group’s model for credit losses is based detect those kinds of errors. We have evaluated the annual accounts and consolidated accounts of the company company's audit committee in accordance with the Audit on IFRS 9. effectiveness of significant controls and verified that they are included on pages 40-115 in this document. Regulation (537/2014) Article 11. operate as intended by testing a selection of transactions. The model for credit losses implies that lending to the public In our opinion, the annual accounts have been prepared in are categorized into three stages depending on the grade of We have assessed whether the group’s model for calculating Basis for Opinions accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in increase of credit risk. In stage 1 the provision for credit losses credit losses is in accordance with IFRS 9. all material respects, the financial position of the parent We conducted our audit in accordance with International correspond to expected credit losses the coming 12 months. We have, among other things, with support from our modelling company as of 31 December 2019 and its financial Standards on Auditing (ISA) and generally accepted auditing In stage 2 and 3 the provision for credit losses correspond to specialists, evaluated if the company’s model of calculating performance and cash flow for the year then ended in standards in Sweden. Our responsibilities under those expected credit losses during the remaining duration of the provisions is operating according to the requirements of IFRS 9. accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. The consolidated standards are further described in the Auditor’s credit. We have also tested for the group relevant controls relating to accounts have been prepared in accordance with the Annual Responsibilities section. We are independent of the parent The model for credit losses is prospective which implies that input to model data, the model and the result of the calculations. Accounts Act for Credit Institutions and Securities Companies company and the group in accordance with professional ethics the group estimate the credit risk in each exposure and the We have also, by testing samples assessed the reasonableness and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial for accountants in Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled our loss that could be realized. The model requires the Group to of the grouping of lending to public into the different stages. We position of the group as of 31 December 2019 and their ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. perform judgements and estimates for example of criteria’s This includes that, based on the best of our knowledge and have also tested the input data to the models. financial performance and cash flow for the year then ended in for defining a significant increase of the credit risk and accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards belief, no prohibited services referred to in the Audit methods for calculating expected credit losses. As part of the We have assessed supporting assumptions and calculations (IFRS), as adopted by the EU, and the Annual Accounts Act for Regulation (537/2014) Article 5.1 have been provided to the groups estimate also macro-economic factors and other related to macro-economic factors and other factors not Credit Institutions and Securities Companies. Our opinions do audited company or, where applicable, its parent company or factors not reflected by the model should be included. reflected by the model. not cover the corporate governance statement on pages 49its controlled companies within the EU. Lending to the public and provision for credit losses amount to We have also assessed the disclosures in the financial 55. The statutory administration report is consistent with the We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is significant amounts. There is a risk that credits are accepted statements regarding lending to public and provision for credit other parts of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. on faulty grounds which could lead to an unwanted credit losses are appropriate. We therefore recommend that the general meeting of exposure. Further the calculation of expected credit losses shareholders adopts the income statement and balance sheet means that the group performs judgements and estimates. for the parent company and the group. This means that identifying doubtful credits and estimation of impairments have a significant influence on the results and position of the group. We have therefore considered lending Key Audit Matters to the public to be a key audit matter of the audit. Key audit matters of the audit are those matters that, in our We have fulfilled the responsibilities described in the Auditor’s professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts of the of our report, including in relation to these matters. current period. These matters were addressed in the context Accordingly, our audit included the performance of procedures Goodwill and impairment test of our audit of, and in forming our opinion thereon, the annual designed to respond to our assessment of the risks of material Detailed information and description of the area is presented in the annual consolidated accounts. The group’s reported goodwill is specified accounts and consolidated accounts as a whole, but we do not misstatement of the financial statements. The results of our in note G28. Regarding the area relevant accounting policies for the group, these can be found in note G2, section Goodwill. Estimates and provide a separate opinion on these matters. For each matter audit procedures, including the procedures performed to assessments are described in note G2, section Judgements and estimates in the financial statements and also in note G46. below, our description of how our audit addressed the matter address the matters below, provide the basis for our audit is provided in that context. opinion on the accompanying financial statements. Description How our audit addressed this key audit matter The goodwill as of December 31 2019 amounts to SEK 1 734 In our audit we have evaluated and tested the company´s million. The company tests the book value of goodwill and process for impairment testing, by analyzing earlier accuracy in intangible assets with indefinite useful lives annually and forecasts and assumptions. We have together with our whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that valuations specialists reviewed the company´s model and the carrying amount might not be recoverable. The method applied for the impairment test and we have evaluated recoverable amount per cash generating unit is determined the company’s own sensitivity analyses. We have also together based on estimates of value in use using a discounted cash with our valuation specialists examined whether the flow model with a five-year forecast period. Anticipated future assumptions of the interest rate and the long-term growth are cash flows are based on the first five years of forecasts of riskbased on marketable assumptions. We have evaluated whether weighted volumes, income, expenses, credit losses and the information in the annual report is appropriate. anticipated future capital requirements. The forecasts are based primarily on an internal assessment of the company based on historical performance, market development of future revenue and cost trends, economic conditions, anticipated interest rate and anticipated effects of future regulations. In addition, a forecast is conducted after the first five-year forecast period based on a long-term growth rate assumption. The impairment test in 2019 did not result in an impairment. The calculated recoverable amount is dependent on a number of different variables. The most important variables are the assumption of capital requirement, interest 1|4 rate and economic trends, future margins, credit losses and cost effectiveness. Considering that goodwill constitutes a significant amount and that the valuation is dependent on judgement we have considered goodwill to be key audit matter of the audit. 116 RESURS HOLDING RESURS HOLDING 117 2|4 THIS IS A TRANSLATION FROM THE SWEDISH ORIGINAL Other Information than the annual accounts and due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is Report on other legal and regulatory requirements consolidated accounts sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our This document also contains other information than the annual opinions. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a Opinions accounts and consolidated accounts and is found on pages 2resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with 39. The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are In addition to our audit of the annual accounts and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden will always error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional responsible for this other information. consolidated accounts, we have also audited the detect actions or omissions that can give rise to liability to the omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal administration of the Board of Directors and the Managing company, or that the proposed appropriations of the Our opinion on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts control. Director of Resurs Holding AB (publ) for the year 2019 and the company’s profit or loss are not in accordance with the does not cover this other information and we do not express ► Obtain an understanding of the company’s internal control proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss. Companies Act. any form of assurance conclusion regarding this other relevant to our audit in order to design audit procedures We recommend to the general meeting of shareholders that information. As part of an audit in accordance with generally accepted that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the the profit be appropriated in accordance with the proposal in In connection with our audit of the annual accounts and purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of auditing standards in Sweden, we exercise professional the statutory administration report and that the members of judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the consolidated accounts, our responsibility is to read the the company’s internal control. the Board of Directors and the Managing Director be audit. The examination of the administration and the proposed information identified above and consider whether the ► Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used discharged from liability for the financial year. appropriations of the company’s profit or loss is based information is materially inconsistent with the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. In this procedure we also take into and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and Basis for opinions primarily on the audit of the accounts. Additional audit account our knowledge otherwise obtained in the audit and related disclosures made by the Board of Directors and the procedures performed are based on our professional judgment Managing Director. We conducted the audit in accordance with generally accepted with starting point in risk and materiality. This means that we assess whether the information otherwise appears to be auditing standards in Sweden. Our responsibilities under those focus the examination on such actions, areas and relationships materially misstated. ► Conclude on the appropriateness of the Board of Directors’ standards are further described in the Auditor’s that are material for the operations and where deviations and If we, based on the work performed concerning this and the Managing Director’s use of the going concern basis Responsibilities section. We are independent of the parent violations would have particular importance for the company’s information, conclude that there is a material misstatement of of accounting in preparing the annual accounts and company and the group in accordance with professional ethics situation. We examine and test decisions undertaken, support this other information, we are required to report that fact. We consolidated accounts. We also draw a conclusion, based for accountants in Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled our for decisions, actions taken and other circumstances that are have nothing to report in this regard. on the audit evidence obtained, as to whether any material ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. relevant to our opinion concerning discharge from liability. As uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is a basis for our opinion on the Board of Directors’ proposed cast significant doubt on the company’s and the group’s Managing Director sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. appropriations of the company’s profit or loss we examined the ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that Board of Directors’ reasoned statement and a selection of The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the supporting evidence in order to be able to assess whether the responsible for the preparation of the annual accounts and attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures Managing Director proposal is in accordance with the Companies Act. consolidated accounts and that they give a fair presentation in in the annual accounts and consolidated accounts or, if The Board of Directors is responsible for the proposal for accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and, concerning the such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion The auditor’s examination of the corporate governance appropriations of the company’s profit or loss. At the proposal consolidated accounts, in accordance with IFRS as adopted by about the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. Our statement of a dividend, this includes an assessment of whether the the EU. The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to dividend is justifiable considering the requirements which the The Board of Directors is responsible for that the corporate also responsible for such internal control as they determine is the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or company's and the group’s type of operations, size and risks governance statement on pages 51-57 has been prepared in necessary to enable the preparation of annual accounts and conditions may cause a company and a group to cease to place on the size of the parent company's and the group’s accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. consolidated accounts that are free from material continue as a going concern. equity, consolidation requirements, liquidity and position in Our examination of the corporate governance statement is misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. ► Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of general. conducted in accordance with FAR´s auditing standard RevU In preparing the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, including The Board of Directors is responsible for the company’s 16 The auditor´s examination of the corporate governance The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are the disclosures, and whether the annual accounts and organization and the administration of the company’s affairs. statement. This means that our examination of the corporate responsible for the assessment of the company’s and the consolidated accounts represent the underlying This includes among other things continuous assessment of governance statement is different and substantially less in group’s ability to continue as a going concern. They disclose, transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair the company’s and the group’s financial situation and ensuring scope than an audit conducted in accordance with as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the presentation. that the company's organization is designed so that the International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted going concern basis of accounting. The going concern basis of ► Obtain sufficient and appropriate audit evidence regarding accounting, management of assets and the company’s auditing standards in Sweden. We believe that the examination accounting is however not applied if the Board of Directors and the financial information of the entities or business financial affairs otherwise are controlled in a reassuring has provided us with sufficient basis for our opinions. the Managing Director intends to liquidate the company, to activities within the group to express an opinion on the manner. The Managing Director shall manage the ongoing A corporate governance statement has been prepared. cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. consolidated accounts. We are responsible for the administration according to the Board of Directors’ guidelines Disclosures in accordance with chapter 6 section 6 the second The Audit Committee shall, without prejudice to the Board of direction, supervision and performance of the group audit. and instructions and among other matters take measures that paragraph points 2-6 of the Annual Accounts Act and chapter Director’s responsibilities and tasks in general, among other We remain solely responsible for our opinions. are necessary to fulfill the company’s accounting in 7 section 31 the second paragraph the same law are consistent things oversee the company’s financial reporting process. accordance with law and handle the management of assets in with the other parts of the annual accounts and consolidated We must inform the Board of Directors of, among other a reassuring manner. Auditor’s responsibility accounts and are in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit. We must Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about also inform of significant audit findings during our audit, Auditor’s responsibility whether the annual accounts and consolidated accounts as a including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we Our objective concerning the audit of the administration, and whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to identified. thereby our opinion about discharge from liability, is to obtain fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes We must also provide the Board of Directors with a statement audit evidence to assess with a reasonable degree of assurance our opinions. Reasonable assurance is a high level of that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements whether any member of the Board of Directors or the Managing assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in Ernst & Young AB was appointed auditor of Resurs Holding AB regarding independence, and to communicate with them all Director in any material respect: accordance with ISAs and generally accepted auditing (publ) by the general meeting of the shareholders on the 25 relationships and other matters that may reasonably be ► has undertaken any action or been guilty of any omission April 2019 and has been the company’s auditor since the 29 standards in Sweden will always detect a material thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, which can give rise to liability to the company, or April 2013. misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from related safeguards. fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in ► in any other way has acted in contravention of the the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence From the matters communicated with the Board of Directors, Companies Act, the Annual Accounts Act or the Articles of we determine those matters that were of most significance in Helsingborg 17 March 2020 the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these Association. annual accounts and consolidated accounts. the audit of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, Ernst & Young AB including the most important assessed risks for material Our objective concerning the audit of the proposed As part of an audit in accordance with ISAs, we exercise misstatement, and are therefore the key audit matters. We appropriations of the company’s profit or loss, and thereby our professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism describe these matters in the auditor’s report unless law or opinion about this, is to assess with reasonable degree of Niklas Paulsson throughout the audit. We also: regulation precludes disclosure about the matter assurance whether the proposal is in accordance with the Authorized Public Accountant ► Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of Companies Act. the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, whether 4|4 3|4 118 RESURS HOLDING RESURS HOLDING 119 About the Sustainability Report This is Resurs Holding’s third Sustainabilmost recent Sustainability Report, for tions’ sustainability data going forward, the Swedish Bankers’ Association, FAR, business. In addition, the results of the partners, owners and members of Group ity Report. It pertains to the entire Group. 2018, was published on 19 March 2019. thereby increasing data quality, traceFinance Norway, the Danish Chamber of analysis provide information about the Management. The selection criteria were The report has been developed in accorThe report also constitutes Resurs’s reability and follow up over time. Commerce and the Finnish Commerce impact of operations on the economy, that they should have a mutual relationdance with the precautionary principle, port to the UN Global Compact, the ComFederation. society, people and the environment. ship with the Group, as well as being and it has been prepared in accordance munication on Progress. CONTACT Resurs applies the principles and guidesignificantly affected by the business. with the GRI Standards at Core level. This The primary target group for the SusFor questions concerning the Group’s STAKEHOLDER DIALOGUE lines of the GRI Standards to determine They completed a web-based survey, to report constitutes the formal sustainabiltainability Report is Resurs’s shareholdSustainability Report, please contact Eva Resurs continuously engages in dialogue what its Sustainability Report will cover. which 1,324 stakeholders from the ity reporting according to Chapter 6, Secers. Other important stakeholders such as Brike, Resurs’s Chief Human Resources with various stakeholder groups. Such The results of the materiality analysis Group’s four main markets (Sweden, tion 11 of the Annual Accounts Act. This retail finance partners, customers, emOfficer and Sustainability Director by engagement provides insight into the performed in 2017 in order to identify Denmark, Norway and Finland) responded. report is included as part of the Group’s ployees and investors as well as society e-mail at: eva.brike@resurs.se expectations of stakeholders and the exthe Group’s most crucial sustainability The Group’s perspective was represented Annual Report, and is a part of the Board at large, should also be able to find explaternal environment for the operations, topics are still considered relevant. by Group Management, which in its reof Directors’ Report. The auditor’s review nations of the most important issues in PARTICIPATION IN TRADE AND which offers important guidance for the The analysis process began by defining sponses also emphasised the importance of the report is attached and is limited to this report. PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS Group’s priorities and activities relating the most important sustainability topics of the Group’s environmental and social a statement that the report has been This Sustainability Report drawn up acResurs is a member of several associato various sustainability topics. The in the banking and finance industry. This impact. Their responses were as then prepared, which appears on page 26. cording to GRI Standards has not be the tions, thereby complying with current stakeholders considered to be the most helped to clarify relevant issues to bring combined with the results of the stakeThe contents of this Sustainability Resubject of an external third-party review. industry requirements in the markets in concerned or directly affected by the opup at the Group’s first internal workshop. holder survey. The result was then analport are based on the materiality analywhich the Group conducts banking opererations are retail finance partners, cusThe issues were selected based on GRI’s ysed at a second internal workshop sis performed in 2017, which continues to tomers, employees and owners. Dialogue list of sustainability topics, as well as where a validation was performed based POSITION GREEN ations, as well as ensuring a responsible guide the selection of the Group’s most takes place through several channels and from a business strategy perspective. on Resurs’s overall business strategy In 2019, implementation began of Posiapproach to both retail finance partners material sustainability topics. Resurs isat different frequencies depending on In order to ensure that the survey adperspective. The appraisal also took tion Green, our new tool for reporting and customers, as well as employees sues the Sustainability Report annually, topic and stakeholder group. dressed the entire Group’s operations, into account the importance of sussustainability data. It entails a more and society. Resurs is a member of the and it covers one calendar year. The representatives from a number of Group tainability topics in a global context, as systematic management of the operaConfederation of Swedish Enterprise, MATERIALITY ANALYSIS functions participated. Guided by the well as the ability of Resurs’s operaThe materiality analysis helps the Group workshop results, twelve sustainability tions to directly or indirectly influence understand the sustainability topics that topics were selected to ask stakeholders these issues. Key topics and concerns Resurs Bank’s are of greatest importance to stakeabout. The stakeholders consisted of Stakeholder group Engagement channel raised by stakeholders management of key topics holders and their expectations for the customers, employees, retail finance CUSTOMERS Customer meetings D  igital services, such as e-invoices, D  evelopment of new services that Customer service bank app, omni-solution give customers greater ability to RESURS HOLDING Social media Invoicing and questions on fees manage their banking themselves. Surveys A MATERIALS Paper print-outs Open and clear communication Customer experience  ransition from paper print-outs to digital T B ENERGY CONSUMPTION F Security information, for example, through Kivra K C  onsolidation of systems for better and C CLIMATE IMPACT quicker customer service I dentification via mobile BankID in stores D OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND J SAFETY and via telephone E E OTHER STAKEHOLDERS TRAINING AND G EMPLOYEES Materiality analysis Occupational health and safety Internal and external training PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT Employee appraisals Professional development and career Management training F D L Internet CUSTOMER PRIVACY Introduction for new employees Diversity and equal treatment Work environment training G Employee surveys Sustainability work  edicated HR role focusing on D DIVERSITY AND sustainability, diversity and health EQUAL OPPORTUNITY Diversity and health H I ENVIRONMENTALLY Sustainability council SUSTAINABLE PROCUREMENT G  uidelines/policy for diversity I H A and equal treatment SOCIALLY SUSTAINABLE PROC Health-promoting measures J CUREMENT B PARTNERS Materiality analysis  ffering of payment and financing O  urther development of existing F RESPONSIBLE Partners (e.g. Correspondence (e-mail, post, etc.) solutions to end customers, focusing products and services, with a particular K retailers) Customer meetings on digitisation, simplification focus on digitisation and automation. CREDIT LENDING and security. Authentication and signing using L GROUP MANAGEMENT End customers ANTI-CORRUPTION T  he new rules and regulations that electronic ID. affect the services that partners use A  djustments to and evaluation of effects FINANCIAL RESULTS or broker via Resurs Bank. and opportunities linked to new regulaD  igital services, such as e-invoices, tions (e.g. GDPR, PSD2, money laundering), bank app, omni-solution D  evelopment of new services that COMMENTS ON THE MATERIALITY ANALYSIS give customers greater ability to The results of the materiality analysis demonstrate clear agreement between what the Group and manage their banking themselves. its key stakeholders consider to be the most important topics. This indicates that the Group’s OWNERS Materiality analysis Sustainable growth and return W  ork on clear and open sustainability efforts conform well to the expectations of others. Shareholders, Investor meetings  isk management and financial R communication to enhance understanding In the analysis, the greatest importance was attributed to the sustainability topics Customer investors and stability among the investor collective. privacy, Anti-Corruption, Responsible credit lending and Diversity and equal opportunity. For the analysts Roadshows Sustainability work A  rranged Capital Market Day 2018 report, Employees and Diversity and equal opportunity were combined, and Social responsiCapital Market Day to further enhance communication. bility and the Environment were added as new material sustainability topics. For the 2019 report, Annual General Meetings Resurs included two new performance indicators to improve validating development in Responsible P  resentation of quarterly credit lending and Social responsibility. reporting 120 RESURS HOLDING GRI 102-11, 102-13, 102-40, 102-42, 102-43, 102-44, GRI 102-46, 102-47, 102-49, 103-1 RESURS HOLDING 121 102-50, 102-51, 102-52, 102-53, 102-54, 103-1 Management of Resurs’s sustainability efforts Resurs’s operation as a banking and insurance group poses demands for conand strategic sustainability work and is responsible for initiating, driving and Code of Conduct is available on the intranet, as well as on Resurs’s external and approved actions. The Group’s processes for approving new or significant A SELECTION OF POLICIES AND GUIDELINES: duct according to business ethics, as well following up operational sustainability websites, so that retail finance partners, changes in existing products/services, as the assumption of responsibility for efforts, with the objective of ensuring customers and investors can read about markets, processes or other major G uidelines for diversity the operation’s impact on people, society compliance with the Group’s long-term the fundamental guidelines according to changes in the business operations are and the environment. commitments. The Group’s sustainability which the Group operates. intended to effectively and efficiently and equal treatment. The Group’s approach is based on committee comprises a total of ten emmanage identified risks in the process. following the laws and regulations of each country where it operates, such as ployees from Customer Experience, Marketing, HR, Customer Service, Facility, MANAGEMENT APPROACH: P olicy against victimisation ANTI-CORRUPTION MANAGEMENT APPROACH: competition law, environmental regulaConsumer Market, Legal and Finance. Resurs has three levels of control funcRESPONSIBLE CREDIT LENDING in the workplace tions, labour market regulations and The committee meets four times per year tions, the three lines of defence, to manThe limits for credit lending operations are collective agreements that affect the and reports directly to the Chief Human operation. Resurs respects international Resources and the Sustainability Director. age corruption risks in the operation and ensure that the Group is doing business based on the overall policy set by the Board. This policy defines the credit stratePhysical security guidelines conventions on human rights, which In 2019 a local sustainability committee and entering into business relationships gy to be followed by the Group and is based guide its own business. Child labour and labour that is forced or performed was also initiated in Finland. based on value creation and ethically on the Group’s products and business segSalary guidelines proper grounds. The first body focuses ments, laws and regulations, and the longunder the threat of violence is not tolCODE OF CONDUCT – RESURS’S on the risks that may arise in operations, term sustainable level of credit losses that erated under any circumstances. Resurs OVERALL MANAGEMENT TOOL consisting of control functions within the business is prepared to accept. P olicy for governance risk makes target efforts to oppose all forms of corruption. Resurs has been a member of the UN’s sustainable business initiative, the Global the Group’s various departments, as well as the Group’s Legal and Anti-Corruption The strategy is implemented in operational activities by being translated into management and control Its shared corporate culture is based Compact, since 2018. This means that the Compliance Officer, who coordinates and scoring models and award criteria, which on the Group’s values – Driven, Open, Innovative and Trustworthy – which have Group is both in favour of the initiative is responsible for operational anti-corare then followed up and checked by Policy for information security and supports and furthers its ten princiruption efforts. The second body consists several bodies. Reports are made to the support throughout the Group. ples. Resurs’s Code of Conduct, which is of each Group company’s Compliance risk committee and the results of the based on these ten principles, clarifies and Risk Control function, as well as the control functions’ examinations are also Credit policy MANAGEMENT APPROACH AND issues including the Group’s views on Actuarial function within insurance opreported to the Board. RESPONSIBILITY business ethics, working conditions, dierations, which continually and indeThe national credit managers use Whistle-blowing policy The overall strategic direction of Resurs’s versity, equality and equal opportunity. pendently control the operations. The monthly sampling checks to review the sustainability efforts is determined by Resurs’s Code of Conduct encompasses third control body is Resurs’ internal work based on prevailing criteria and Group Management. Resurs’s CEO is ultithe entire Group and all of its employees. audit function, which independently exregulations. The Risk Control function A nti-bribery mately responsible for sustainability It must guide how everyone, regardless amines the Group’s operations and evalthen examines parts of the credit lending topics. Resurs’s sustainability committee of their function and role within the uates how the other control functions process by measuring credit losses and policy functions as a link between the operative Group, acts according to business ethics manage and assess risks. following up on the product portfolios’ and in a way that inspires trust on the part of retail finance partners, customers, credit risks. In addition, an internal audit of the credit lending operation is also P olicy on anti-money laundering MANAGEMENT APPROACH: authorities and other stakeholders. The CUSTOMER PRIVACY continuously carried out. and financing of terrorism The Group’s control functions consist of DRIVEN MANAGEMENT APPROACH: the Internal Audit function, the Compliance and Risk Control function and the EMPLOYEES, DIVERSITY AND EQUAL Data protection policy insurance operation’s Actuarial function. OPPORTUNITY They are independent and report regularly The function of HR Specialist SustainabilCompetition policy verbally and in writing to their respective ity, Diversity & Health is dedicated to OPEN Policy on trade sanctions company CEOs, risk committees, the driving, developing and monitoring efforts Board and certain Board committees. in the areas of sustainability, diversity The Internal Audit function’s review of and health. The role includes working on the Group’s operations includes reviewsustainability projects and following up Complaint management policy INNOVATIVE ing activities in operations to determine on them. The Group furthermore has a whether the business is being adequately Compensation & Benefit Manager, who managed from a risk perspective. manages compensation and benefits. This Remuneration policy The Risk Committees, in which senior role is primarily responsible for reviewing executives participate, monitor and idenremuneration levels and an annual salary Insider policy TRUSTWORTHY tify risks in the business as well as proacsurvey, as well as developing policies and tively addressing potential risks and guidelines for salaries, pensions, benefits following up on previously identified risks and company cars. Code of Conduct 122 RESURS HOLDING GRI 102-16, 102-18, 103-2, 103-3 GRI 103-2, 103-3, 102-18 RESURS HOLDING 123 Annual Accounts Act: Management approach and policies Annual Accounts Act: Management approach and policies GRI content index TOPIC-SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES Number Disclosure Page Comments Number Disclosure Page Comments GRI 101 FOUNDATION GRI 103 MANAGEMENT APPROACH (2016) See topic-specific disclosures GRI 102 GENERAL DISCLOSURES (CORE) (2016) GRI 205: ANTI-CORRUPTION (2016) 102-1 Name of the organisation Cover 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries 26, 37, 120-121 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 3, 23 103-2 The management approach and its components 122-123 102-3 Location of headquarters 62 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 122-123 102-4 Location of operations 3 205-2  ommunication and training about anti-corruption C 37 102-5 Ownership and legal form 3, 46 policies and procedures GRI 405: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY (2016) 102-6 Markets served 3, 16-17 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries 26, 30, 102-7 Scale of the organisation 3, 16-17, 29, 120-121 42-43, 48-49 103-2 The management approach and its components 122-123 102-8 Information on employees 29, 31 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 122-123 102-9 Supply chain 22 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 31 102-10 Significant changes to the organisation and its supply chain 4-5 GRI 418: CUSTOMER PRIVACY (2016) 102-11 Precautionary Principle 120 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries 26, 36, 102-12 External initiatives 8, 27 120-121 102-13 Membership of associations 120 103-2 The management approach and its components 122-123 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 7-10 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 122-123 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 31, 35, 36, 37, 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer 36  omplete information is not availC 45, 67-77 privacy and losses of customer data able. Resurs does not presently measure/monitor complaints from 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behaviour 28, 122 a strict privacy perspective. 102-18 Governance structure 27, 51-55, (OWN SUSTAINABILITY TOPIC) RESPONSIBLE CREDIT LENDING 122-123 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries 26, 34, 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 14, 120 120-121 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 31 103-2 The management approach and its components 122-123 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 14, 120 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 122-123 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 14, 120 Own the total percentage of payment arrangements paid by customers 35 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 14, 120 (OWN SUSTAINABILITY TOPIC) SOCIAL COMMITMENT 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 42 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries 26, 32, 120-121 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 121 103-2 The management approach and its components 122-123 102-47 List of material topics 121 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 122-123 102-48 Restatements of information – Own Number of employees who choose to contribute as volunteers 32 Only Resurs in Sweden is 102-49 Changes in reporting 121 included in the yearly numbers. 102-50 Reporting period 120 INDEX FOR THE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ACCORDING TO CHAPTER 6 SECTION 11 OF THE ANNUAL ACCOUNTS ACT 102-51 Date of most recent report 120 102-52 Reporting cycle 120 DISCLOSURE PAGE REFERENCE 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 120 Overview Business model 22 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 120 Social conditions and personnel Approach and policies 122-123 102-55 GRI content index 124 125 Risks, management and performance 28-31 102-56 External assurance – T  he Group’s Sustainability Report Respect for human rights Approach and policies 122-123 has not been externally assured in Risks, management and performance 32-33 accordance with GRI Anti-corruption Approach and policies 122-123 Risks, management and performance 37 Environment Approach and policies 122-123 Risks, management and performance 32-33 124 RESURS HOLDING GRI 102-55 GRI 102-55 RESURS HOLDING 125 Auditor’s report on the statutory sustainability statement To the general meeting of the shareholders of Resurs Holding AB (publ), corporate identity number 556898-2291 Engagement and responsibility It is the Board of Directors who is responsible for the statutory sustainability statement for the year 2019 on pages 22, 28-31, 33, 37 samt 122-123 and that it has been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. The scope of the audit Our examination has been conducted in accordance with FAR’s auditing standard RevU 12 The auditor’s opinion regarding the statutory sustainability statement. This means that our examination of the corporate governance statement is different and substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. We believe that the examination has provided us with sufficient basis for our opinions. Opinions A statutory sustainability statement has been prepared. Helsingborg 17 March 2020 Ernst & Young AB Niklas Paulsson Authorized Public Accountant Information about Annual General Meeting 2020 Resurs Holding's Annual General Meeting 2020 will be held at Dunkers Kulturhus in Helsingborg on April 29, 2020 at 10:30 a.m. Notice to attend the Annual General Meeting is available on Resurs Holding's website www.resursholding.se Shareholders who wish to attend the Annual General Meeting shall, firstly, be entered in the share register maintained by Euroclear Sweden on Wednesday, 23 April 2020, secondly give notice of their attendance no later than on 23 April 2020. Notice to attend is to be made: • by telephone to +46 8 402 91 71, weekdays between 10:00 a.m and 16:00 p.m, or • by mail to Resurs Holding AB Annual General Meeting , c/o Euroclear Sweden, Box 191 SE-101 23 Stockholm Domestic shareholders can also give notice on Resurs Holding's website www.resursholding.se. Dividends The Board proposes that the Annual General Meeting adopts a dividend of SEK 2.10 (1.95) per share. According to the company's model of semi-annual dividend payments, dividends of SEK 1.80 per share (1.65) were paid in autumn 2019. Accordingly, The final date for trading in the company's shares including the right to receive dividend is Thursday, 29 April 2020. The record date is proposed as 4 May 2020 and the dividend will be paid on 7 May 2019. RESURS HOLDING 127 126 RESURS HOLDING Resurs Holding AB PO Box 22 209 SE-250 24 Helsingborg, Sweden E-mail: resursholding@resurs.se www.resursholding.se
