Troldtekt A/S Corporate Social Responsibility Communication on Progress for the UN 2019 ABOUT THIS REPORT About this report Troldtekt A/S’s CSR reporting is based on the sustainable Cradle to Cradle design concept and the UN Global Compact. This report relates to the calendar Report structure Focus on the UN’s 10 principles year 2019. In publishing this report, The report is divided into five sections. Troldtekt’s CSR activities are anchored Troldtekt A/S confirms its continued First, we describe Troldtekt’s CSR work in the management as a strategic support for the UN Global Compact. At in general, providing a status from the focal point for our business strategy the same time, the report describes Board of Management and selected which is based on the Cradle to Cradle the progress we have made within highlights from 2019. In the second principles. In our internal CSR policy, CSR, while also providing a status on section, we focus on our strategic we have introduced requirements for our objectives and initiatives. work with the Cradle to Cradle susour daily activities based on the ten This is the sixth consecutive year tainable design concept – while the principles of the UN Global Compact. that our CSR reporting is based on third section is about our focus on Our CSR policy is available online at the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) four of the UN’s Sustainable Developtroldtekt.com under the menu item methodology, which has significantment Goals. ‘Environment & CSR’. Troldtekt’s coly enhanced the structure of our The fourth section contains several operation with its suppliers is based reporting and our data collection. In examples of specific activities in 2019. on our Code of Conduct, which is also practice, we are inspired by the earlier And finally, the last section of the reavailable at troldtekt.com. GRI G4 reporting framework, which in port contains the actual data reportmid-2018 was replaced by GRI Standing under four headings: environment, ards. This report is based on the same labour conditions, society and human methodology and structured in the rights. same way as recent reports, making it easier to compare the data. The areas reported on have been identified following a thorough materiality analysis, which we have carried Want to know more? out in collaboration with the consulIf you have any questions about the report, please contact Tina Snedker tancy firm Carve Consulting. Troldtekt Kristensen, Head of Marketing and Communications at Troldtekt, by phone A/S’s CSR reporting is based on the (+45 8747 8124) or email (tkr@troldtekt.dk). All Troldtekt’s CSR reports sustainable Cradle to Cradle design can be found online at > www.troldtekt.com. concept and the UN Global Compact. CONTENTS One of the sustainable forest plantations where trees used to produce Troldtekt are felled. Contents About Troldtekt Page 3 Troldtekt’s CSR activities in 2019 Page 28 – Editorial – Sustainable laboratory has opened in Berlin – Highlights of the year – Sustainable offices for green think-tank – Company profile – Increased focus on safe workflows – Troldtekt, the story – Colleagues learning Danish at work – Troldtekt and the UN Global Compact – Student project sparked idea for new solution – Sponsorship for tomorrow’s architects Troldtekt and Cradle to Cradle Page 12 – Byens Hus brings light to Mørke – Certification and objectives Data from Troldtekt Page 38 Troldtekt and the UN Sustainable – Environment Development Goals Page 14 – Labour conditions Our choice of goals – Society Goal 3: Good health and well-being – Human rights Goal 12: Responsible consumption and production – Content index Goal 15: Life on land Goal 17: Partnerships for the goals CSR REPORT 2019 TROLDTEKT® 3 EDITORIAL New objectives pave the way for new initiatives In 2019, we took the next steps in our strategic work with the UN Sustainable Development Goals. We broadened our focus to include two more goals – which has already spawned several concrete initiatives. At the same time, we reaped green benefits from our massive investments in more energy-efficient production. At Troldtekt, we work with CSR at a strategic level. Since 2012, this work has been based on the international Cradle to Cradle design concept, and year after year we have realised milestones that create value for the world around us – and for our business. In recent years, we have extended our focus to include the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). We have done so because Cradle to Cradle and the Sustainable Development Goals have many principles in common. It makes sense, for example, to work with the SDG on good health and well-being when, with our Cradle to Cradle certification, Troldtekt is documenting how its acoustic panels contribute to a healthy indoor climate. For us, it is crucial that we translate the SDGs into concrete action so that they become more than just colourful intentions. Read more about our same time, we have converted fossil guidance over the past decade. We specific work with four of the SDGs in fuels into green energy – for example, have come a long way in implementthis report. our trucks run on electricity from wind ing measures which benefit both peoturbines instead of diesel. Over the ple and the environment. And which We are using less energy per unit next few years, we will continue to at the same time give us competitive In recent years, we have made investminimise the environmental impact of advantages in a market where it is bements in our factory running into our production. coming increasingly important to act triple-digit millions of kroner – and Another important focus area in responsibly and transparently. Let me now they are beginning to pay off. The the near term is to further strengthen take this opportunity to reiterate that largest chunk of the money has been safety standards in our production. we will, of course, be fully supporting spent on an additional production We already follow thorough and prethe 10 principles in the decade ahead. line, which we inaugurated in February cise procedures, but with five indusFinally, I would like to thank all my 2019. But we have also upgraded our trial accidents in 2019, new measures colleagues. Without their wholeheartexisting line with new technology in are needed. The goal is clear: We want ed support, our CSR activities would order to be able to produce acoustic to reduce this figure to zero. You can not have made anything like half the panels as energy-efficiently as possiread about our strengthened focus on difference in our everyday lives. ble. Two major upgrades were a new this issue in the report. drying oven and a biomass boiler. As can be seen at the end of this Ready for a new decade with report, the investments are reflected Global Compact in our data. In 2019, we managed This year’s CSR report is our tenth to reduce our energy consumption report since we joined the UN Global per unit produced by approx. 14% Compact in 2010. The Global Compact compared to the previous year. At the principles have served as important Peer Leth, CEO, Troldtekt A/S 4 TROLDTEKT® CSR REPORT 2019 CSR REPORT 2019 TROLDTEKT® 5 New knowledge about healthy construction In 2019, we – together with Rambøll – prepared documentation for Troldtekt’s contribution to WELL-certified and Nordic Swan Ecolabelled construction, where the focus is on health and well-being. In doing so, we have supplemented our documentation packages for Troldtekt’s contribution to the DGNB, LEED and BREEAM certifications. Troldtekt is also part of the newly opened C2C LAB in Berlin, a knowledge centre for healthy, Cradle to Cradle-certified building materials. > Pages 17-19 and page 28 Less energy per unit In 2019, we inaugurated our brand new factory line. Fully automated processes and the latest technology now enable us to manufacture our panels etc. more energy-efficiently. While we used 25.47 MJ (megajoules) per produced square metre in 2018, in 2019 we used only 21.95 MJ. This equates to a 13.8% reduction. Over a twoyear period, the reduction has been 20.9%. > Page 40 Choose between FSC® and PEFC™ In 2019, we supplemented our FSC® certification (FSC®C115450) with a PEFC certification™. All our acoustic panels are now certified according to one of the two leading standards for responsible forestry. All the wood we use is PEFC-certified, and much of it is also FSC-certified. Customers can therefore choose between the two standards when buying Troldtekt. > Pages 23-24 Leading the way for more certified forests In partnership with FSC Denmark, in 2019 we launched a public call concerning the need for more FSC-certified forests in Denmark. The joint initiative comprised several activities, and has now resulted in, for example, the Municipality of Ringkøbing-Skjern FSC-certifying its woodland areas. > Page 26 ABOUT TROLDTEKT Social responsibility is a fundamental value At Troldtekt, a sustainable indoor climate is one of our guiding principles. We want to be innovative, credible and socially responsible in our work. Troldtekt has produced cement-bonded wood wool products since 1935, and today Troldtekt is one of Europe’s leading suppliers of acoustic solutions. Troldtekt acoustic panels are still manufactured from the same sustainable materials as 80 years ago: Danish Norway spruce and Danish cement. All production takes place in Denmark under modern, environmentally friendly conditions. Troldtekt’s business strategy is founded on the Cradle to Cradle design concept, which plays a key role in securing environmental improvements towards 2022. Sustainability thus plays a crucial role in our work – because we believe that it will pay off in the long term. Activities Vision, mission and guiding principle Troldtekt’s principal activity is the manufacture and sale of acoustic • Troldtekt’s vision is to be a trendsetting supplier of intelligent acoustic cement-bonded wood wool wall and solutions. ceiling panels for all types of buildings • Our mission is to be a creator and communicator of innovative acoustic – from private homes, schools, institusolutions. tions, offices and industrial buildings to • Our guiding principle is sustainable indoor climates. sports halls and swimming pools. The company supplies complete ceiling and Values We are We are We are socially innovative credible responsible We create results through developWe do what we say, and we keep We act responsibly in all parts of ment. Innovation must ensure that our promises. We also communicate our business, including in relation Troldtekt is a trendsetter within openly about our sustainable objecto the environment, society and intelligent acoustic solutions that tives and results. employees. Corporate responsibility focus on a sustainable indoor is rooted in our strategic work with climate. Cradle to Cradle. 8 TROLDTEKT® CSR REPORT 2019 ABOUT TROLDTEKT wall cladding solutions which integrate German markets. In addition, Troldtekt Board (Sven-Eric Nilsson). Moreover, good acoustics, fire protection and a is primarily present in our neighbouring throughout the year we have taken on healthy indoor climate with ventilation, European markets. new colleagues in Tranbjerg, Troldhede unique design options and loudspeaker and at our international subsidiaries in systems. Suppliers Germany and Sweden. Troldtekt’s production takes place at Troldtekt’s Code of Conduct forms the state-of-the-art facilities in the small basis for the company’s cooperation Community activities town of Troldhede in western Jutland. with its suppliers. This Code of Conduct CSR is rooted in Troldtekt’s corporate Sales, administration, marketing is based on the general principles conculture, and it was therefore natural and technical support functions are tained in international conventions. All for the company to join the UN Global located at the company’s head office in Troldtekt’s key suppliers are Danish, and Compact. In continuation of this comTranbjerg, a suburb of Aarhus. In 2015, supply either certified wood, cement, mitment, Troldtekt has integrated the Troldtekt opened an office in Hamburg, paint, packaging or wind power. Cradle to Cradle concept in its business Germany, and in 2016 an office in strategy. Malmö in Sweden. Organisational changes Troldtekt plays an active role on a Troldtekt also works with a number Troldtekt is a fast-growing companumber of committees, in organisations of distributors abroad, mainly in northny, and the number of employees and associations, including: ern Europe. increased again in the past year. For – Green Building Council Denmark example, we have employed colleagues – The board of BIPS Troldtekt’s role in construction in newly created positions such as – DI’s special building policy committee Troldtekt’s direct customers are buildtechnical manager (Vibeke Pedersen), – Committee work in Danish Standards ers’ merchants and DIY stores, while logistics manager (Lise Kirkegaard) and – Deutsche Gesellschaft für the company’s indirect customers comPTA manager (Ole Busk Sørensen). We Nachhaltiges Bauen (DGNB) prise building consultants, architects have also recruited a new Danish sales and private clients. manager (Ole Tønning Villumsen), as our Information previous sales manager (Bo PedersFor more information on Troldtekt A/S Markets en) was keen to move on to a project and its products, CSR activities and In Denmark, Troldtekt is a leading consultant role. In addition, 2019 saw technical documentation, please visit supplier of acoustic panels, and the the appointment of a new Chairman www.troldtekt.com. domestic market plays an important of our Board of Directors (Kurt Bering role together with the Swedish and Sørensen), and a new member of our CSR REPORT 2019 TROLDTEKT® 9 Troldtekt, the story CRADLE TO CRADLE 1855 J. C. Seidelin, a grocer, opens the first dedicated store for building materials at Fredens Torv in Aarhus. Louis Hammerich takes over the business and expands the range to include wholesale products and begins to import building materials from abroad. 1884 L. Hammerich Specialforretning i Bygningsartikler is renamed Aktieselskabet L. Hammerich & Co. The 1911 public limited company has registration number 645, and is thus one of the oldest surviving public compaThe business has grown, and A/S L. Hammerich & Co. nies in Denmark. 1931 moves into modern new premises in Grønnegade in central Aarhus. Poul Hammerich, Louis’ son, takes over management of the company. A/S L. Hammerich & Co. acquires A/S Troldhede 1935 Pladeindustri in Troldhede. Fibreboard and the cement-bonded wood wool Troldtekt® panels are manufactured here, and a registered trademark is Poul Hammerich decides to establish the ‘Grosserer acquired in 1936. L. Hammerich og Hustru Ellen, f. Lisbergs Legat’ foundation to support families and staff facing financial hardship. Poul Hammerich dies young, but the foun1936 dation is subsequently set up. Svend Hammerich joins the company management 1947 and helps to rebuild the company’s position following the Second World War. 1977 The fourth generation of the Hammerich family, Peter Hammerich, joins the company management. The product range is extensively restructured, with a 100% focus on Troldtekt and a few goods for resale. 1982 All warehouse facilities are moved to Troldhede, while sales and administration are moved to new offices on Klamsagervej in Åbyhøj, a suburb of Aarhus. Peter Thorkild Bjerglund Andersen, who has been a member Hammerich leaves the company. of the company’s board of directors since 1973, purchases A/S L. Hammerich & Co. 1988 1993 A/S L. Hammerich & Co. moves to the former premises of the sawmill Aarhus Savværk at Søren Nymarks Outgrowing its premises again, A/S L. Hammerich & Vej in Højbjerg, south of Aarhus. Co. moves to the old Østergaard manor in Malling, 1998 which Thorkild Bjerglund Andersen has renovated while farming the adjoining land. Huge investments are made in streamlining and modernising production The new millennium marks the beginning of a period in Troldhede. 2000 of strong product development. Troldtekt is no longer just acoustic panels, but acoustic solutions with integrated lighting, sound, ventilation and decoration. A/S L. Hammerich & Co. and A/S Troldhede Plade2003 industri merge under the name A/S L. Hammerich & Co., with sales and administration in Malling and production in Troldhede. Thorkild Bjerglund Andersen’s heirs take over the 2005 company and carry on the family-owned enterprise under the management of a professional advisory board. Following the business succession, A/S L. Hammerich & Co. moves to more modern premises on Sletvej in Tranbjerg outside Aarhus, and the company name is abbreviat2008 The 75th anniversary of the production of Troldtekt ed to L. Hammerich A/S. acoustic panels is marked by changing the company 2010 name to Troldtekt A/S. Troldtekt receives the Danish Building Industry Environment Award the same year for its focus on the environment and sustainability Troldtekt qualifies for Cradle to Cradle certification throughout the product’s entire life cycle. in the Silver category and prepares a roadmap for developing Cradle to Cradle quality at Troldtekt 2012 through to 2022. The CSR Foundation awards Troldtekt A/S the CSR Awards’ Strategy Prize for its solid and strategic ap2014 proach to CSR and for having rooted CSR in all parts of the business, including at executive level and in the business strategy. 2015 Troldtekt Deutschland GmbH is established in Hamburg, the company’s first foreign subsidiary. 2016 The company’s second foreign subsidiary, Troldtekt AB, is established in Malmö, Sweden. After several years of expansion and modernisation of the existing factory, Troldtekt constructs a brand new additional factory line in Troldhede. The new produc10 TROLDTEKT tion line ® CSRto enables Troldtekt REPORT double2019 capacity from 2019 early 2019. UN GLOBAL COMPACT Global Compact: CSR based on UN principles Corporate social responsibility is a fundamental value for Troldtekt, and we have signed up to the UN Global Compact. Thus, we adhere to the UN’s ten principles – based on defined objectives in the areas of environment, labour conditions, society and human rights. Environment At Troldtekt, we are committed to ensuring that our activities contribute positively to our shared resources. Even though Troldtekt acoustic panels are now produced using robot technology, the ingredients are still the same all-natural materials as were used in 1935: wood and cement. Our environmental focus is manifested through concrete initiatives within material health, reutilisation, energy and water. The four categories carry weight in the sustainable Cradle to Cradle concept, which is a cornerstone of our business strategy. Read more about Cradle to Cradle and our environmental initiatives on the following pages. Society At Troldtekt, we play an active role in society and engage in dialogue with the outside world. This applies both to the immediate neighbours of our factory in Troldhede and to our suppliers. In our Code of Conduct, which suppliers are obliged to observe, we state that corruption and bribery are completely unacceptable. inclusion in the labour market, among This applies not only to our suppliers We also support several associaother things via work experience for production, but also to suppliers of tions and organisations, among others schemes and by taking on flexitimers. services such as cleaning and waste the Danish Association of the Hard of In 1936, the then managing direchandling. Hearing, the Danish Asthma and Allertor and owner, Louis Hammerich, esgy Association, the Danish Acoustical tablished a staff fund which provides Society (DAS) and the German Cradle financial support for employees past to Cradle NGO. and present who are facing difficulWant to know Labour conditions ties. The fund exists to this day. more? Respect, co-determination, support Human rights Read Troldtekt’s CSR policy at and diversity in the workplace are key Troldtekt’s Code of Conduct is at the troldtekt.com under the menu aspects of our daily working lives. heart of our focus on supporting item ‘Environment & CSR’. On We make a priority of retaining human rights and working actively to our website, you will also find employees who are on sick leave, promote them. We maintain a keen our CSR reports from previous and of preventing industrial accidents focus on the issue at all times in our years. and injuries. Furthermore, we support dealings with suppliers and partners. CSR REPORT 2019 TROLDTEKT® 11 TROLDTEKT AND CRADLE TO CRADLE Cradle to Cradle points the way Our roadmap brings together the objectives and results of our work with the circular economy from 2012 to 2022. Troldtekt’s business strategy is based nature as soil conditioner. Additionally, on the sustainable and internationally dust from the production of Troldtekt recognised Cradle to Cradle concept, panels is used as a resource in new which is all about creating healthy cement from Aalborg Portland. products that benefit people and the environment. Results and the way forward The aim is that the products can Cradle to Cradle requires the coneither be reused in the biological cytinual improvement of products and cle, where the materials return to naprocesses. Through focusing on ture, or in the technical cycle through sustainability, and through massive inbeing turned into raw materials for vestments in our production, we have new products – without wasting achieved a number of value-creating resources. milestones since Troldtekt’s products first achieved Cradle to Cradle certificoncrete action plans to ensure that Troldtekt in closed cycles cation in 2012. we achieve the defined objectives We work systematically with the The specific results are part of our towards 2022. circular economy, for which closed Cradle to Cradle roadmap, which is In 2020, we will prepare new longresource cycles are a central tenet. Via an ambitious and publicised plan for term objectives which are in line with our Cradle to Cradle certification, we our work with the circular economy. our Cradle to Cradle strategy. The new can document that Troldtekt acousFor each of the five Cradle to Cradle objectives will be described in next tic panels can be safely returned to criteria categories, we have drawn up year’s CSR report. Cradle to Cradle scorecard Tier Basic Bronze Silver Gold Platinum Theme Material health ✓ Material reutilization ✓ Renewable energy ✓ Water stewardship ✓ Social fairness ✓ 12 TROLDTEKT® CSR REPORT 2019 TROLDTEKT AND CRADLE TO CRADLE Cradle to Cradle roadmap Results 2012-2018 Results 2019 Objectives 2020/22 Material Health  Troldtekt acoustic series in natural and • The wooden strips for Troldtekt contrast ® • Optimise paint recipe so that Troldtekt acoustic standard colours C2C-certified. have, as the first trade goods to be produced panels in natural and standard colours can as private label for Troldtekt, been given a advance to C2C GOLD level.  Product development based on C2C principles. Material Health Certificate. • Trade goods produced as private label for  Trade goods produced as private label for Troldtekt must have a Material Health Troldtekt screened certificate. C2C SILVER level. Material Reutilisation  Production waste sorted into a number of • Identify and establish new solutions for fractions to ensure that resources from recycling cement-bonded wood wool in the production waste are recovered at the highest biological cycle. possible value level. • Agreement on crushing of panel waste  Take-back scheme for collecting cementconcluded with external partner with a view bonded wood wool construction and demolito increased recycling in the biological and tion waste tested in the construction industry technical cycles. in Denmark. • Develop new products that contain production  Scheme using dust from production as a raw waste (for example cut-offs). In the longer material in new cement from Aalborg Portland term, develop products based on end-of-life is established. acoustic panels from building industry. C2C GOLD level. Renewable Energy  Ørsted climate partner. 100% renewable • Diesel and gas-powered forklifts have been • Map possible alternative energy solutions from energy for electricity consumption replaced with electric trucks, so that more than solar, wind or similar sources. (wind power) from 2013. 60% of all trucks are now electric. • Explore possibilities for participating in an  New energy-efficient biomass boiler run in. international development project aimed at utilising waste heat.  50% of diesel and gas-powered forklifts replaced with electric trucks.  Light sources in most of the production facilities replaced with LED bulbs. C2C GOLD level. Water Stewardship  No untreated wastewater discharge from • Separate sewerage system for all factory • Explore possibilities for participating in an production. buildings established. international development project aimed at utilising steam.  Water-saving schemes established. • Map the possibility of establishing an overflow  Separate sewerage system established on reservoir with vegetation. new production line and in most of the other factory buildings. Rainwater is discharged to municipal reservoir. C2C PLATINUM level. Social Fairness  CSR reporting to UN Global Compact from • Training for employees in new robot 2010. technology introduced.  CSR reporting follows the GRI G4 structure. • Danish lessons provided for new employees.  C2C principles introduced in the organisation and value chain. C2C GOLD level. How Troldtekt is certified Troldtekt is Cradle to Cradle-certified in the Silver cateNew long-term objectives in the pipeline gory. The certification covers the full product portfolio of Our Cradle to Cradle work is dynamic, and we have Troldtekt acoustic panels and design solutions in natural therefore updated our roadmap every year, even though wood, natural grey and painted in the standard colours we are only Cradle to Cradle re-certified every two years white 101, grey 202, charcoal grey 208 and black 207. – most recently at the beginning of 2019. The annual The Silver certification also covers the non-combustible update ensures that it is completely clear which objecTroldtekt A2 panels and Troldtekt agro panels. tives we are currently pursuing. In 2020, we will prepare new long-term objectives, which will be set out in next year’s CSR report. CSR REPORT 2019 TROLDTEKT® 13 FOCUS | SDGS Troldtekt targets new SDGs After focusing our efforts on two of the UN’s 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), we are now extending this focus to include two more. It is still crucial that we manage to translate the goals into concrete action in our business. The colourful collage of the 17 SDGs “Our first step was to focus on our products, so we know they are has become a common frame of refSDG 12 (Responsible consumption healthy for humans. Our panels have erence for businesses and consumers. and production) and SDG 15 (Life on a long product lifetime, and for us it is However, for many people the goals land) as well as the four targets that imperative that we only bring healthy are quite abstract and not necessarily we have been working continuously materials into circulation in buildings,” associated with meaningful and conon for the past couple of years. We says Peer Leth, adding: crete actions. have now evaluated and decided to “We still have some way to go. For “When giving external presentaadd two more goals and three new example, we’re in dialogue with our tions about our CSR work, I often targets,” he says. supplier about the recipes for our meet people who are unsure about paints. The challenge is that if we how to get to grips with the SDGs. Healthy materials and valuable remove all the biocide which prevents Many people think that you have to partners rot, there is a risk of bacterial infecwork with all 17 of the goals, including The two SDGs added in 2019 are SDG tion in the paint, and then we would the 169 targets. At Troldtekt, rather 3 (Good health and well-being) and be unable to collect and reuse waste than being overwhelmed we decided SDG 17 (Partnerships for the goals). paint.” from the outset to focus on the areas “When it comes to health and Peer Leth adds that a lot of exwhich we are able to influence to the well-being, we want to help make perience has been gained in 2019 greatest extent,” said Peer Leth, CEO buildings healthier. We have already relating to SDG 17 – Partnerships for at Troldtekt A/S. mapped the substances contained in the goals: “We’re proud that, together with FSC Denmark, we’ve helped to disseminate knowledge about responsible forestry. And that by doing so, we’ve succeeded in persuading the Municipality of Ringkøbing-Skjern to FSC-certify the municipal woods so that we can buy more raw wood locally.” Everyone knows the SDGs Peer Leth makes no secret of the fact that the measures which faithfully support the SDGs also bring competitive advantages for Troldtekt. “Both politically and for our customers, the UN SDGs are a frame of reference which everyone knows. It makes the dialogue easier when we can present specific initiatives. The SDGs have set an agenda which means that companies are overtaken on the inside if they don’t work with the goals. This is only positive – because the involvement of the business sector is vital to realising sustainable development,” says Peer Leth. 14 TROLDTEKT® CSR REPORT 2019 FOCUS | SDGS SDGs are both sustainability and business The work with the UN’s SDGs is integrated into many Danish businesses – but more small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) need to come on board. According to the CSR manager at the Danish Chamber of Commerce, the goals are important for the future of the planet as well as for companies’ business opportunities. The UN SDGs provide companies some point or another to comply with with a framework for working with legislation or demands from business sustainability. According to Malene partners. Thiele, CSR manager at the Danish Chamber of Commerce, it is still the Companies create sustainability largest companies that work systemAccording to Malene Thiele, it is esatically with the goals. Among small sential that companies shoulder their and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), part of the responsibility for realising only 35% state that they have proper the SDGs. knowledge of the SDGs, which is a “The goals future-proof our planet, pity according to her: and consumers cannot do this alone. “It is crucial that SMEs start workIt is very good to see that consumers ing with the SDGs, and the need for are being responsible and making them to do so will only increase in demands on companies. About 75% of the near future. Consumers are deDanish consumers say that they would manding high standards of corporate be happy to pay more for a product Malene Thiele, CSR manager at the sustainability, and the competitive or service if it comes from a company Danish Chamber of Commerce situation in future will depend greatly that focuses on sustainability,” says on companies being able to make the Malene Thiele. most of the opportunities offered by “Almost 60% agree that a more the SDGs. Therefore, it’s worrying that sustainable development requires conEven though there is still huge SDG more than half of SMEs don’t believe sumers to change their habits,” she potential in the SME segment, accordthat the SDGs are relevant for them,” continues. ing to Malene Thiele, Denmark is one she explains. In addition to establishing a of the frontrunners when it comes to The CSR manager points out that sustainable agenda, the CSR managintroducing and living up to the SDGs Danish SMEs are also under pressure er says that the SDGs can also help compared to other countries. This politically to incorporate the SDGs companies to attract the best talents is evident from the SDG Index and and sustainability into their business in the job market. Candidates look at Dashboard Report, which measures strategies. If a company’s managehow employers are working with the which countries have come farthest in ment is not already taking the busiSDGs, and see this as an important implementing the SDGs. ness in a sustainable direction, it is parameter and a decisive aspect of likely they will be forced to do so at tomorrow’s job market. CSR REPORT 2019 TROLDTEKT® 15 FOCUS | SDGS SDG 3: Good health and well-being Overall goal: Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages. Target 3.9: By 2030, substantially reduce the number of deaths and illnesses from hazardous chemicals and air, water and soil pollution and contamination. SDG 12: Responsible consumption and production Overall goal: Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns. Target 12.6: Encourage companies, especially large and transnational companies, to adopt sustainable practices and to integrate sustainability information into their reporting cycle. Target 12.7: Promote public procurement practices that are sustainable, in accordance with national policies and priorities. Target 12.c: Rationalise inefficient fossil-fuel subsidies that encourage wasteful consumption (text is abbreviated). SDG 15: Life on land Overall goal: Protect, restore and promote sustainable use of terrestrial ecosystems, sustainably manage forests, combat desertification, and halt and reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity loss. Target 15.b: Mobilise significant resources from all sources and at all levels to finance sustainable forest management and provide adequate incentives to developing countries to advance such management, including for conservation and reforestation. SDG 17: Partnerships for the goals Overall goal: Strengthen the means of implementation and revitalise the global partnership for sustainable development. Target 17.16: Enhance the global partnership for sustainable development, complemented by multi-stakeholder partnerships that mobilize and share knowledge, expertise, technology and financial resources (text is abbreviated). Target 17.17: Encourage and promote effective public, public-private and civil society partnerships, building on the experience and resourcing strategies of partnerships. 16 TROLDTEKT® CSR REPORT 2019 FOCUS | SDGS Healthy buildings require healthy materials With well-documented material health and traceability, Troldtekt works in line with the goal, which, among other things, aims to reduce deaths and illness caused by harmful substances. Sixty per cent of acute respiratory lives indoors. At home, when travelling, breathing volume, and thus breathe in infections in children are due to condiat work or in public buildings. Therelarger volumes of air than adults. tions in the ambient environment. And fore, it is crucial to focus on the health Troldtekt wants to contribute like adults, they spend most of their of the built environment, and according to buildings which are healthy for time indoors. This is highlighted by US to the World Health Organization, there their occupants. We are doing so by research from the US National Institute is plenty of scope for improvement. In documenting the positive impact of of Environmental Health Sciences (NIEa 2006 study, the WHO found that we Troldtekt acoustic panels on the indoor HS) and the Environmental Protection are primarily exposed to air pollution climate as well as the material health of Agency (EPA), which make the point when we are inside. Children are parour products. that we spend as much as 90% of our ticularly exposed, as they have a higher CSR REPORT 2019 TROLDTEKT® 17 FOCUS | SDGS Thorough content analysis the accredited assessment body under certifications, which simply operate Troldtekt cement-bonded wood wool the Cradle to Cradle Products Innovawith ‘does not contain’ lists. We see panels are made of 100% natural mation Institute. this as a key precondition for delivering terials – wood and cement. As part of In practice, therefore, our systembuilding materials which are healthy for Troldtekt’s Cradle to Cradle certification, atic work with Cradle to Cradle means people and the environment. our products are thoroughly analysed. that we possess detailed knowledge All the substances are defined down of all the substances contained in our Low degassing and particle release to 100 ppm, and assessed for their products, and that we can document Our products have been tested, for impact on people and the environment. that they do not contain any hazardous example, by Danish Indoor Climate The analysis is carried out under the substances. Cradle to Cradle calls for Labelling (under the Danish Technoauspices of Vugge til Vugge Danmark, a more thorough approach than other logical Institute), and certified in the Labels for healthy choices In order to highlight the way in which Troldtekt benefits the indoor climate and makes it easier for developers and consultants to choose healthy materials for construction, we have obtained approvals and certifications under a number of schemes: Troldtekt acoustic panels are Troldtekt acoustic panels are clasCradle to Cradle-certified in the sified in the M1 category by the Silver category according to Finnish Indoor Air Association and the the Cradle to Cradle Certified™ Building Information Foundation RTS. standard’s latest version 3.1. The The classification system categorises certification has been granted, building materials based on emission among other things, because the panels contain no classes – i.e. how many substances harmful substances, and can therefore be returned the materials release to the air. Emission class M1 correto nature as nutrients in the biological cycle. sponds to the best quality (lowest emission rate). Troldtekt acoustic panels are Troldtekt acoustic panels are indoor climate-certified in the classified as ‘low emission’, and best category by Danish Indoor thus benefit nature and health in Climate Labelling (under the the voluntary and independent Danish Technological Institute) – German Blue Angel ecolabel. a voluntary labelling scheme for building materials and their impact on the indoor climate. The indoor climate certificate is common to Norway and Denmark and is recognised worldwide. Troldtekt acoustic panels Troldtekt acoustic panels have been have earned the UK environmentally assessed by the organisation Allergy UK’s Swedish SundaHus Material Data Allergy Friendly Product Award. The Allergy Friendly system and categorised as class A, Product Award is only given to products which imwhich comprises products with the prove health and well-being for asthma and allergy smallest negative impact on human sufferers. In connection with the award, Troldtekt health and the environment. has been studied and assessed by UK Allergy’s panel of consultants and scientific experts. 18 TROLDTEKT® CSR REPORT 2019 FOCUS | SDGS best categories. To qualify for the the leading sustainable building certifiAlso in 2019, Rambøll documented Danish indoor climate label, a product’s cations, including DGNB, LEED, BREEAM Troldtekt’s contribution to Nordic Swan degassing must decline within the first and WELL. A healthy indoor climate is Ecolabelled construction, and Troldtekt 60 days of installation. Troldtekt panels one of the criteria looked at. has been included in the Nordic Swan fulfil the requirements when measWe can now document Troldtekt’s Ecolabel’s database of products that urements are performed after only 10 contribution to WELL certification, can be used for Nordic Swan Ecoladays. Ceiling products are also tested which focuses in particular on imbelled construction. The Nordic Swan for the quantity of fibres and particles proving human health and well-being Ecolabel is the official ecolabel in the they release. Here too, Troldtekt panels through the built environment. In 2019, Nordic region, and prioritises, among qualify for the best category (‘low Rambøll mapped how Troldtekt is able other things, the importance of buildparticle release’) – i.e. less than 0.75 to contribute to 20% of the criteria in ings having a good indoor climate. milligrams per square metre. WELL, among other things because our acoustic solutions are Cradle to Documented contribution Cradle-certified with material health We have worked with Rambøll to map documentation. how Troldtekt contributes specifically to Material passports can pave way for the circular economy Every year, too many undesirable a difficult and laborious process. substances are incorporated into Therefore, she has – in collaboranew and renovated buildings. In tion with Troldtekt, among others 2017 alone (latest figures from the – formed a working group that Nordic SPIN database), the building will find ways of introducing the materials used in Denmark conso-called materials passports in the tained almost 20,000 tonnes of construction industry. substances which are classified as “Materials passports will be harmful in Denmark and/or the EU. a voluntary scheme, whereby “On the one hand, everyone in manufacturers clearly state which the construction industry talks substances their products contain. about sustainable building, but on This will lead to healthier buildings, the other, very few people have a and make it possible to link inforgrip on the substances contained mation to digital building models in building materials. Developers that clients update themselves if, Martha Lewis, architect and Head and architects are not chemists, for example, they replace or paint of Materials at Henning Larsen so greater transparency is needed a material. In this way, it will be Architects. about the substances,” says Martha transparent which materials can be Lewis, a senior architect and Head included in circular cycles when a of Materials at Henning Larsen Arwhich is an obstacle to the circular building needs to be renovated or chitects, and who won the ‘person economy. demolished,” says Martha Lewis. award’ at ‘Det Bæredygtige Ele“Materials containing undesiraShe mentions that product certiment’ sustainability award in 2019. ble substances cannot be recycled fications exist today which it makes She has been monitoring the directly in new buildings, and nor sense for developers or consultants figures for harmful substances in can they be crushed and used as to choose if they want to conconstruction closely in recent years. a resource in new materials,” says struct a building without harmful While she finds that areas such as Martha Lewis. substances. These include several ventilation, acoustics and daylight schemes under which Troldtekt has have received greater attention, In working group with Troldtekt been evaluated or certified: the there is no positive development For Martha Lewis, it is obvious that Nordic Swan ecolabel, the Swedish to be seen in the use of harmful improvements must be made volSundaHus Material Data and Byggchemistry. On the contrary, things untarily, as implementing new legal varubedömningen as well as Cradle are moving in the wrong direction, requirements via the EU system is to Cradle. CSR REPORT 2019 TROLDTEKT® 19 FOCUS | SDGS Green energy and life cycle in focus Producing Troldtekt acoustic panels is an energy-efficient process – and uses a large proportion of renewable energy. Through their long product lifetime and good recycling possibilities, Troldtekt acoustic panels help support sustainable construction and consumption. Construction accounts for almost 40% means that, since July 2013, all our With our own biomass boiler and of the world’s total CO2 consumption. electricity has been based on wind by replacing gas and diesel-powered Both in the manufacture of building power from the Anholt offshore trucks in production with electric trucks, materials and in the running of buildwind farm. We are an Ørsted climate we have minimised our consumption ings, there are huge gains to be made partner because we want stable, carof fossil fuels while staking instead by thinking about greener production bon-neutral electricity supplies. on green energy sources. See figures methods as well as the circular econBy entering into a climate partnershowing this development in the data omy, where materials are recycled at a ship agreement, we are buying cersection at the back of the report. high value level. tificates which guarantee that Ørsted Through our Cradle to Cradle stratproduces power at one of their cerWaste creates new value egy, we are committed to continuously tified wind farms that corresponds to Throughout the factory in Troldhede, improving in areas such as renewable our consumption. By entering into this we are focusing on minimising the energy and recycling. In this way, we partnership, we have contributed to consumption of resources while support SDG 12 – Responsible consupporting and expanding wind power recycling as much as possible instead. sumption and production. as a key energy source in Denmark. Cradle to Cradle certification ensures Today, a large proportion of Denmark’s that the materials in Troldtekt acoustic Wind power and biofuels electricity consumption is covered panels are well-defined and do not All the electricity used in our producby wind energy, and we are buying contain harmful substances. Theretion is based on renewable energy certificates for the remainder of our fore, Troldtekt production waste with through our climate partner agreeelectricity consumption to ensure that cement-bonded wood wool can be rement with Ørsted. The agreement it is all covered by wind energy. turned to nature without any problem. 20 TROLDTEKT® CSR REPORT 2019 FOCUS | SDGS However, so as to ensure that the greatest possible value can be derived from the resources in our production waste, we are separating the waste into several different fractions, which are being utilised in various ways. We are continually working to test and find sustainable solutions for all our waste fractions, including cement-bonded wood wool waste and residual bark from the debarking of the Norway spruce logs. Production waste in the form of pure offcuts can be composted in the biological cycle and used as a soil conditioner. The cement in Troldtekt reduced the amount of paint which erable environmental benefits to be panels has a high lime content, which is wasted by more than 70%. This is gained from maximising the lifetime of helps to neutralise the acids produced because we can now collect and reuse the panels. during composting. The wood in the a large proportion of the excess paint Today, used cement-bonded wood panels is organic material, and helps (so-called overspray). wool panels cannot be safely returned to prevent the compost from comto the natural cycle. This is because pacting. This increases oxygenation Long product lives are good for the comprehensive environmental screenin the composting process so that carenvironment ing is required to establish whether bon and nutrients are recirculated. When installed in buildings, our the panels have, for example, been Dust from our edging workshop is products contribute positively to the surface-treated during use. We are used in the technical cycle in cement circular economy. Troldtekt acoustic working to find an external partner production at Aalborg Portland. The panels are sturdy and have a long who can rough-crush waste panels wood content of the Troldtekt dusts product lifetime of min. 75 years. They for the biological cycle and fine-crush contributes to the combustion process require no maintenance, and can be waste panels for the technical cycle. (energy), where it replaces fossil fuels, painted repeatedly without impairing In this way, we can, in addition to while the cement content is incorpothe acoustic properties of the panels. dust, also send surface-coated panel rated into new cement, reducing the Therefore, developers can choose waste to Aalborg Portland – and in the use of virgin raw materials. to retain an existing Troldtekt ceiling longer term perhaps also demolition Resources are also used efficiently when renovating or transforming a waste. at our painting facility. Thanks to new property – or they can reuse the pantechnology, in recent years we have els in new buildings. There are considBiological cycle Technical cycle CSR REPORT 2019 TROLDTEKT® 21 FOCUS | SDGS Ceiling given new lease of life at exclusive airport Aarhus Airport is the fourth-largest and sustainability. Troldtekt is a airport in Denmark. As a natural natural material made from Danish part of its growth strategy, the wood and cement, and the ceiling airport has undergone extensive panels have a product lifetime of at refurbishment. least 75 years – also when painted The first floor is where most of during their product lives. the work has taken place. There is “Painting the ceilings black has a new café and lounge area, and a transformed the whole feel of the new restaurant has been opened. airport, which now comes across To support the exclusive look, as exclusive and elegant. We have, the airport’s existing acoustic ceiling among other things, been inspired from Troldtekt has been painted by the hotel industry, and changing black. While black ceilings contribute the colour of the ceiling has made to perfecting the interior design, an impressive difference,” says repainting them was also in keeping Merete Olesen, Airport Station with the airport’s focus on recycling Manager at Aarhus Airport. 22 TROLDTEKT® CSR REPORT 2019 FOCUS | SDGS Local raw materials from responsible sources At Troldtekt, we obviously use natural raw materials to produce our acoustic panels. We are certified according to both the leading standards for responsible forestry, and all the wood we use comes from local forests. Troldtekt acoustic panels are a wood atmosphere and the release of the CO2 • maintaining or increasing the level of product, and wood is a healthy, elewhich is already stored in the trees. biodiversity, among other things by gant and flexible natural material which On the other hand, protecting forests, leaving damaged trees and treetops makes a positive contribution to the biodiversity and reforestation help to in the forests carbon accounts. This is explained by ensure a balanced ecosystem. the fact that while growing, each tree This is where the leading wood • replanting forests and protected forabsorbs just as much carbon dioxide as certifications FSC® (FSC®C115450) and est areas where there are particularly is released during its care, felling and PEFC™ come into the picture. Both FSC favourable conditions for biodiversity transport. and PEFC are international certification and endangered species Several developers are therefore schemes that prioritise the environchoosing to construct buildings in ment, biodiversity, working conditions • ensuring that forest workers are which wood is the main supporting and the conservation of forestry areas. trained and have good working material. At Troldtekt, we want to be At Troldtekt, we are certified according conditions able to trace all the wood in our prodto both schemes. ucts back to sustainable sources. And • managing forests without the use of we want forest owners to take docuA number of responsible principles hazardous chemicals mented responsibility for the people With the two certifications, our cuswho depend on the forest’s resources. tomers are guaranteed that the wood • ensuring good access conditions for Deforestation is a problem in many can be traced back to responsible forforest users. parts of the world, which results in estry. In other words, it means that the fewer trees absorbing CO2 from the forest owners have been focusing on: CSR REPORT 2019 TROLDTEKT® 23 FOCUS | SDGS More people building with sustainable wood More focus on sustainable wood in large proportion is also FSC-certiIn total, about 40% of Danish forconstruction means that certified fied, as it comes from ‘double-cerests are PEFC-certified. wood products are in high demand. tified’ forests. However, the finished “In recent years, we’ve seen a This is why we at Troldtekt chose acoustic panels can only be certified growing awareness in the constructo be PEFC-certified in 2019 – in according to one of the two certifition industry and among developers addition to our FSC certification. cation schemes, and customers can of the role played by sustainable “We’re already only using wood freely choose between either one wood and the contribution it makes from local forests which is certior the other – PEFC or FSC. to healthier buildings. Therefore, fied in accordance with the PEFC more forest owners and suppliers principles. However, as we’re seeing Increasingly popular scheme are choosing to become PEFC-certia growing demand among our cusThe demand for certified wood is fied,” says Morten Thorøe, Executive tomers for certified products, it’s growing – which is why Denmark is Secretary at PEFC Denmark, adding: natural for us to meet this desire producing more and more PEFC-cer“We’re delighted that Troldtekt, for certification,” says Peer Leth, tified wood. At the beginning of as a leading supplier of wood prodCEO at Troldtekt. 2020, approx. 293,000 hectares of ucts, has embraced the certificaAll Troldtekt acoustic panels now forest in Denmark were certified tion. It’s quite unique for a manucertified In practice, 100% of the according to the scheme. Or about facturer to only use certified raw raw wood is PEFC-certified, and a 15% more than three years before. wood,” says Morten Thorøe. Support for ‘Danmark planter træer’ On Saturday, 14 September 2019, the fundraising show Troldtekt supported the show with a DKK 10,000 donaDanmark planter træer (Denmark plants trees) was tion, which equates to 500 newly planted trees. screened on the Danish TV channel TV2. For each doThe Folkeskove is a new concept designed to benefit nation of DKK 20 by companies and private individuals, the climate, ensure clean drinking water and strengtha new tree was planted in the Danish ‘Folkeskove’, or en biodiversity for plants and wildlife. Another imporPeople’s Forests. tant aim is to make it possible for all Danes to spend time outdoors in a forest. 24 TROLDTEKT® CSR REPORT 2019 FOCUS | SDGS Partnerships ensure impact Commitment and cooperation create leverage for the SDG, which Troldtekt works with through partnerships. Among other things, we support NGOs and other organisations that help promote sustainability and the circular economy. At Troldtekt, we share the UN’s main Its many activities include a congress, omy, and here Troldtekt is a member of, premise that we must stand together in an academy, a professional forum and for example, Cradlenet. The NGO offers order to change the world. Therefore, an annual ‘action week’ with a range inspiration and knowledge sharing we are partnering with companies, of initiatives. The Cradle to Cradle NGO between companies, organisations and NGOs and other organisations which, has more than 30 regional groups, people. This is in line with our strategy like us, want to contribute to a circular more than 700 active members, and a of helping to communicate messages economy within the construction induspartner group of companies in which about the circular economy to as many try. We have entered into meaningful Troldtekt has been an active member people as possible in the Swedish conpartnerships on all three domestic marsince 2018. struction industry. kets – Denmark, Germany and Sweden. As a partner, we provide finanMoreover, we have entered into cial support for the NGO’s efforts partnership with the green think-tank Unified voice in Danish media to promote Cradle to Cradle, and we Fores in Stockholm. Fores bridges the In Denmark, Troldtekt works closely also attend presentations and events gap between politicians, the business with FSC Danmark to increase the where we share our experiences with community and research within the number of FSC-certified forests through the circular economy. In 2019, we also field of sustainability – and stands various activities. contributed Troldtekt acoustic panels out as a key player in this area in the In 2019, several Danish media to the newly opened C2C LAB in Berpublic debate in Sweden. As part of also reported on our partnership with lin, an educational centre, NGO office the collaboration, we have contributed Aalborg Portland within the field of and ‘living laboratory’ for Cradle to Troldtekt solutions to the think-tank’s recycling. Together with our cement Cradle-certified building materials. new headquarters, where everything supplier, we are working to ensure that – from chairs to carpets and ceilings – production and construction waste Network and green think-tank signals sustainability. containing Troldtekt acoustic panels can In Sweden, too, strong forces are create value in cement production. working to promote the circular econMost of our CO2emissions stem from the production of cement, and we are therefore keen to work closely with Aalborg Portland to reduce the Troldtekt supports sustainable building CO₂footprint of our products through Troldtekt A/S is a member of In Denmark, we are a member of new technologies for cement producthe leading organisations within the independent council for sustion. This has, among other things, sustainable building in Denmark, tainable building, Green Building resulted in the project whereby dust Sweden and Germany. Through Council Denmark. The council has from our edging workshop creates these memberships, Troldtekt is decided to follow DGNB, which is value in cement production. Our aim is part of a large network of experts therefore the most widely used – via logistics partners – to roll out the for exchanging experience and sustainable certification system in project to include demolition waste and inspiration. the Danish construction industry. cement-bonded wood wool waste from The first Danish version of the construction sites. In Germany, the organisation is DGNB certification system was pubcalled DGNB – Deutsche Gelished in 2012, since when it has Joining forces for Cradle to Cradle sellschaft für Nachhaltiges been updated several times. In Germany, we work with, among othBauen. Launched in 2008, the ers, the German Cradle to Cradle NGO, DGNB certification system ensures Sweden Green Building Council which works to promote the circular sustainability at the social, econommanages and supports a number of economy and the Cradle to Cradle ic and environmental level – during the most widely used certification design concept throughout the country. the construction process and in the schemes within sustainable building finished building. in Sweden. Two of them are Miljöbyggnad and BREEAM-SE. CSR REPORT 2019 TROLDTEKT® 25 CASE | FSC Troldtekt leading the call for more FSC-certified forests Active participation in FSC Week, presentations at WWF Denmark’s forest conference and at FSC Denmark’s anniversary event. These are some of the activities in which Troldtekt was involved in 2019 through our partnership with FSC Denmark. Our two organisations have also joined forces in the media with a call for more certified forests. “A significant proportion of our forestry and players in the timber in“The forestry industry has been acoustic panels are FSC-certified, but dustry aimed at increasing the supply waiting for demand to take off. At the we want to produce even more, as an of local certified wood. same time, the Danish FSC forestry increasing number of Danish forestry standard has needed revising and owners hopefully have their forests Ready for more sustainable forests optimising, reducing the number of certified. Our strategy is based on susToday, just 20% of Denmark’s forests requirements and making them more tainable production, and the market are FSC-certified, and demand is practice-oriented. That is why we are is ready for larger volumes of FSC-ceroutstripping supply. The FSC label guanow calling on private forest owtified products. Therefore, we see a rantees, among other things, that no ners and landowners to certify their huge need for more certified forest more trees are felled than the forest forests,” says Loa Dalgaard Worm, areas in Denmark,” says Peer Leth, can reproduce on its own – and that Director of Strategy and Business CEO of Troldtekt A/S. local workers are trained, supplied Development at FSC Denmark At Troldtekt, we have also arranged with safety equipment and paid a and hosted meetings between Danish decent wage. Municipality certifies forests after dialogue As a direct result of this ‘call’ from More raw wood available locally FSC Denmark and Troldtekt, the Troldtekt produces all its acoustic Municipality of Ringkøbing-Skjern in panels in Troldhede in the Municiwestern Jutland has now decided to pality of Ringkøbing-Skjern. The deFSC-certify all its municipal forests. cision to FSC-certify the municipal “I was invited to a meeting at Trforests enables us to source more oldtekt together with FSC Denmark. of our raw wood locally. Here, I was told about the benefits “Of course, we prick up our ears to be gained from certifying forests when a large local company draws and the challenges of obtainattention to a particular need. I’m ing enough FSC-certified wood. I delighted that we can now offer learned a lot from the dialogue, FSC-certified wood to Troldtekt, for and it resulted in us deciding to example. It’s important for their FSC-certify our municipal forests as sales in Denmark and on their a supplement to our PEFC certificaexport markets, such as Germany,” tion. At the same time, I will make says Hans Østergaard. a point of telling my counterparts in other municipalities about the scheme,” says Hans Østergaard (Liberal Party), Mayor of the Municipality of Ringkøbing-Skjern. 26 TROLDTEKT® CSR REPORT 2019 CASE | CSR ON NEW MARKETS CSR REPORT 2019 TROLDTEKT® 27 CASE | C2C LAB Sustainable laboratory opens in Berlin Troldtekt acoustic solutions have been installed at the world’s first C2C LAB, which opened in Berlin in autumn 2019. The renovated building serves as an educational centre, NGO office and a ‘living laboratory’ for Cradle to Cradle-certified building materials. In a new knowledge centre in the therefore meet the Cradle to Cradle Board of Cradle to Cradle NGO, which Berlin district of Prenzlauer Berg, criteria for healthy products that can is behind the project. architects can experience and experbe returned to nature or recycled in Dating back to 1986, the building iment with Cradle to Cradle-certified new products. which houses C2C LAB was originally building materials and circular material “We’re proud to have finished the built as a ‘Plattenbau’ of large, prefabflows. C2C LAB houses an educational world’s first complete renovation ricated reinforced concrete elements. centre, offices for the Cradle to Cradle according to Cradle to Cradle principles This type of multi-storey development NGO and a ‘living laboratory’. with our new C2C LAB, and to be able was very characteristic of the GDR era. It has ‘green’ walls that clean the to show how Cradle to Cradle works in air. Carpets that bind particles. And practice. With C2C LAB, we’ve created Extensive, green renovation office furniture which is not only a unique lighthouse project, which The renovation of the building involved healthy for people, but also for the will hopefully serve as inspiration for completely rethinking the ground environment. All the materials used many years to come,” says Tim Janßen, floor. The old walls were demolished, in the 400-square-metre C2C LAB Executive Director and member of the and C2C glass partitions were used to 28 TROLDTEKT® CSR REPORT 2019 CASE | C2C LAB create eight rooms which are lighter trying to raise people’s awareness of the materials have been glued toand more open. The old and damaged with the renovation of C2C LAB,” says gether using adhesive or foam. Cradle floors were removed and replaced Tim Janßen. to Cradle-certified acoustic ceilings, with Cradle to Cradle-certified car“C2C LAB is an educational centre green walls and wall paints guarantee pets and hard flooring. Other more and a living laboratory, where the best a healthy environment, but also add a durable floors such as a terrazzo floor materials have been used in an exemnatural feel. were kept. To ensure plenty of natural plary and innovative way. The renovaDifferent variants of Troldtekt light, the windows were enlarged and tion shows how to recycle products acoustic panels have been used on replaced with Cradle to Cradle-certified so that they are returned to the cycle ceilings and walls in both meeting and window systems. in a meaningful way, but there are still conference rooms. Troldtekt acoustic “The sustainability aspect is playing challenges that need addressing,” he panels are made of the all-natural maan increasingly important role in adds. terials wood and cement. The panels new-builds. When renovating existing The building methods used have are Cradle to Cradle-certified in the Silbuildings on the other hand, it is more also matched the Cradle to Cradle ver category, and the circular principles of a niche area, and one which we are criteria for separation – so none of are a key part of Troldtekt’s strategy. About C2C LAB: • The building which houses the 400-square-metre C2C LAB was originally built in 1986. • C2C LAB has been completely refurbished using healthy materials – in line with Cradle to Cradle principles. • Over 30 partners have been involved in establishing C2C LAB, including Troldtekt. Several different variants of the Cradle to Cradle-certified Troldtekt acoustic panels have been chosen for the interior. CSR REPORT 2019 TROLDTEKT® 29 CASE | SUSTAINABLE OFFICES FOR GREEN THINK-TANK Sustainable offices for green think-tank The green, liberal think-tank Fores in Sweden is a bridge-builder between politics, research and the business community. On arriving for meetings and events at Fores’s Stockholm office, visitors are met by sustainable elements from floor to ceiling. And here Troldtekt’s design solutions play a key role. Fores in Stockholm is the epitome of the way we think, and the reports we the physical environment where the sustainable development. The thinkpublish, or the materials that we premeetings take place. Moreover, it’s imtank stands out as a key player in the pare for politicians, but also as a meetportant that the meeting venue signals Swedish debate about green initiaing place,” says Mattias Goldmann. sustainability and climate responsibilitives – with conferences, seminars and He was CEO of Fores when the ty,” adds Mattias Goldmann. publications. The office in the heart Troldtekt solutions were installed in the of Stockholm is designed to support offices in 2019 as part of a partnership Impressed by Troldtekt these activities. All the materials, from between Fores and Troldtekt. In the Fores is based on Kungsholmen, only a the carpets on the floor to the chairs autumn, he moved to a position as stone’s throw from Stockholm City Hall and the ceilings, have a sustainable Chief Sustainability Officer at Sweco. and with waterfront views. Stepping profile. This is extremely important “We want to build bridges between inside the offices and looking upwards, from the point of view of inspiring visipoliticians, businesses and the revisitors are immediately reminded of tors and people coming for meetings. search community. The bridge-building where they are. This is because the “At Fores, we want to lead the way takes the form of academic discusFores name is milled directly into the in terms of sustainability. Not just in sions, but is also supported through 30 TROLDTEKT® CSR REPORT 2019 CASE | SUSTAINABLE OFFICES FOR GREEN THINK-TANK elegant Troldtekt line acoustic ceiling in several places. “At Fores, we’re very impressed with Troldtekt, and we chose their solutions because they use Norway spruce which grows in Scandinavia and is a biological raw material, because the product is Cradle to Cradle-certified, and because Troldtekt uses 100% wind power in its production,” says Mattias Goldmann. “We have Troldtekt panels on our walls and ceilings. I think it’s important, because when something is right in front of your nose, it means that we can tell people to also think about sustainability and the climate when considering the acoustics. This is the message we always want to convey,” adds the CEO. A Troldtekt design solution has also been chosen for the wall. Here, the Troldtekt rhomb mini version – with its rhomb-shaped pattern in shades of grey, black and white — creates a three-dimensional effect. Better decision-making In addition to the sustainability aspects, Troldtekt panels also contribute to ensuring superior acoustics, and thus to more qualified discussions in the Fores offices. Both at working meetings with just a few participants and at large-scale events, where Fores hosts up to 250 visitors at a time. Mattias Goldmann says: “For a satisfactory meeting or event, it’s important that you don’t suffer listener fatigue which will make you want to leave the room. This is what it was like when we first moved into the building, with its hard stone floors and the noise of traffic outside. However, with the sound insulation which has now been installed, this is a good place for meetings, and just what we wanted. A place where people meet and develop together. Better acoustics ensure better discussions and thus better decision-making.” CSR REPORT 2019 TROLDTEKT® 31 CASE | SAFETY Increased focus on safe workflows In 2019, five lost-time injuries were sustained by employees at Troldtekt. Our aim is zero industrial accidents, and we are now launching a number of measures to further improve safety in our production facilities. High-vis reflective vests, precise traffic rules and clear signage. At a large factory like ours in Troldhede, clear procedures are needed to prevent industrial accidents. This is why we are systematically working with safety, but after five lost-time injuries in 2019, we are now intensifying this work further. “Safety is a top priority, and we have a goal of zero accidents. All our employees must feel safe, and never doubt that they will return home uninjured at the end of the day. This is why it is of great concern to us that last year we suffered five industrial accidents, and in 2020 we are launching a number of measures to make it even safer to move around what is now a huge factory area,” says Orla Jepsen, On-site traffic and reflective vests roundings. In addition, vans and trucks factory manager at Troldtekt A/S. Several of the first safety measures come and go from suppliers and busiHe adds that in connection with to be introduced relate to on-site ness partners. the accidents, Troldtekt has a fully traffic. Every day, trucks whizz around “Of course, we already have clear functional emergency response procestacked with acoustic panels, which traffic rules for the site, but now we dure, which also includes psychologirestrict the drivers’ view of the surare making them even stricter. For cal crisis support. example, we’re making it completely clear where visitors have to park, and we’re considering whether more roads should be one-way,” says Orla Jepsen. “Another key priority is visibility. Both colleagues and visitors must wear a high-vis reflective vest at all times. It’s reassuring to see how many colleagues are already good at reminding each other to wear their vest. We need to keep this up. An important aspect is addressing the challenge, and ensuring that we help each other to follow the procedures which are already in place,” he continues. During 2020, more measures will be implemented in close cooperation between the occupational health and safety committee and management. 32 TROLDTEKT® CSR REPORT 2019 CASE | DANISH LESSONS AND SKILLS BOOST Colleagues learn Danish at work Many Troldtekt employees come from non-Danish ethnic backgrounds. We make a priority of offering Danish lessons to those for whom Danish is not their mother tongue. Several of our employees working in production in Troldhede have moved to Denmark from abroad, and even though many of them had a basic knowledge of Danish before they were employed, we are focusing on giving them a chance to upgrade their language skills. We are therefore offering Danish lessons to colleagues for whom Danish is not their native language. “We have had employees who only wanted to speak English. We can certainly get by with this, but we would much prefer it if everyone spoke Danish. It helps to minimise the number of misunderstandings between colleagues, and it strengthens the sense of togetherness,” says Steen Nielsen, who is a shop steward at Troldtekt A/S. Investing in our employees In 2019, Troldtekt decided to start offering Danish lessons during working hours, as an investment in our employees – and to help retain talented workers. in the media and avoid misunderDanish lessons are held each week Shan Manikkam, from Sri Lanka, standings in his everyday life. on Troldtekt’s premises. The teachwho has worked at Troldtekt for many “I’ve always told my boss that I ing is differentiated and flexible and years, says that he can now combine want to be good at communicating. I offered to everybody on the same his work with his interest in learning speak Danish at work, but also when terms. more Danish. It means that he can I shop and when I’m talking to my better understand what is being said children,” he says. Good opportunities for upgrading skills On the initiative of the works council at Troldtekt, we In late 2018/early 2019, all hourly paid workers were are offering production employees the opportunity to offered an interview with the municipality’s consultants attend a supplementary training programme of their to clarify their training needs and wishes. Subsequently, choice. This is happening in cooperation with ‘Kompein consultation with the municipality, we have drawn tenceGruppen’ at the Municipality of Ringkøbing-Skjern. up a catalogue of possible training courses that our colleagues can attend. CSR REPORT 2019 TROLDTEKT® 33 CASE | COOPERATION WITH STUDENTS Student project sparked idea for new solution In 2019, Troldtekt cooperated with a group of students who were given a chance to try their hand at high-tech challenges in production. The students turned a problem on its head and arrived at a completely new idea. In spring 2019, Troldtekt opened its facThe challenge involved the qualisolution to the challenge. The result was tory doors to four students on the MSc ty assurance that we perform when an idea in which a robot, via so-called programme in Technology Based Busithe wood wool is mixed with cement, machine learning, learns to identify ness Development at Aarhus University. before the finished acoustic panels are cement lumps using a camera. Then, a As part of an exam project, the group cast. Orla Jepsen, factory manager at robot arm can push the cement further was shown several complex challenges Troldtekt A/S, explains: down into the panel mixture so that it is that we were seeking to address at our “To avoid visible lumps of cement no longer visible on the surface. high-tech production facility in Troldon the panel surfaces, we have an “We had a very good dialogue with hede in western Jutland. employee who manually removes Troldtekt along the way, and we were “Beforehand, all we knew was that them. What we were looking for was able to interview employees and collect the task had something to do with a technology that could automate the data from observations of production. IoT (Internet of Things, ed.), and that process so we could use the labour in The three days at the factory were it had to be solved at Troldtekt. After a smarter way.” crucial, because if we had simply been being presented with various challengpresented with the highly technical es at the factory, we chose to hone in Three days in the field challenge on paper, then it would have on one of them in our project,” says The students spent three days at Trbeen much more difficult to arrive at a Eduard-Andres Hedensted, one of the oldtekt’s factory, and then spent some solution,” says Eduard-Andres Hedenstudents in the group. time working on their technological sted. 34 TROLDTEKT® CSR REPORT 2019 CASE | COOPERATION WITH STUDENTS Fruitful for both parties had been thinking about beforehand swers and feedback when we needed The idea presented by the group was was wanting to help a few students it. For us, it has been fascinating to met with an enthusiastic response with their project, something that we learn about a particular product and from Troldtekt. enjoy doing. However, I never expecthow it’s produced. During the project, “They really thought outside the ed to get such a specific and construcwe’ve seen how what we learn on the box, and came up with a solution that tive solution to a particular issue here degree programme can be applied in we would never have thought of ourat the factory,” says Orla Jepsen. the real world,” says Eduard-Anders selves. Our focus has been on removThe four students also benefited Hedensted. ing the lumps of cement, rather than from the process. on whether they could be pushed “We were very warmly welcomed down and hidden in the panels. All I by Troldtekt, and received a lot of anFACTS: About the project • The four students – Eduard-Andres Hedensted, • The practical assignment the students have Lasse Nielsen, Philip Schmidt and Lavinia to complete is called a TBMI Challenge. The Stratulat – undertook the assignment at challenge is presented by a company, and has to Troldtekt as part of their Technological Business be solved technologically. Model Innovation (TBMI) course. • TBMI is one of the main courses on the Technology Based Business Development degree programme at the Department of Business Development and Technology (AU BTECH) at Aarhus University’s campus in Herning. CSR REPORT 2019 TROLDTEKT® 35 CASE | SUPPORT FOR STUDENTS Sponsorship for tomorrow’s architects At Troldtekt, innovation is a fundamental value. Consequently, we honour students who develop new ideas for architecture. In 2019, we were again the main sponsor of a competition in which students from Hamburg designed the school of the future. Based on a specific construction project, six teams of students competed against each other in the run-up to SCHULBAU, the international fair and exhibition for educational institute architecture, in Hamburg in February 2019. Based on a site visit, research interviews and their own architectural ideas, the students had to submit their proposals for the design of the new campus Neugraben. In the Hamburg area alone, billions of euros are being spent on new schools at the moment – so it is important to shed light on the best ideas for tomorrow’s educational in our new domestic markets, includto change tack, and instead give buildings. For this purpose, six teams ing Germany. students the possibility of trying their of architecture students from difOn the other hand, we have dehand on a real construction project, ferent local universities were able to cided to discontinue our own compewhich will subsequently be executed present new and innovative ideas. tition – the Troldtekt Award – which in real life. In Germany, there is a huge invited international students to come need for new schools and for renoSupport for a core area up with new and original ways of vating existing schools, and acoustic As in 2018, Troldtekt was the main using Troldtekt acoustic panels. Peer solutions for schools is one of our sponsor of the competition in 2019 – Leth, Troldtekt’s CEO, explains: core business areas. Therefore, it because we want to motivate tomor“The Troldtekt Award has provided makes a lot of sense for us to support row’s architects to work innovatively, us with some good and unusual input the competition at the SCHULBAU fair. and because we want to promote CSR over the years, but we’ve now decided Involvement in study projects Social responsibility is a fundamental value at Troldtekt. hede. Here, the two students collected daily data on And assuming responsibility for educating young people the efficiency of our machines (OEE) and reported their is no exception. Each year, we receive a lot of enquiries findings to management. The data formed the basis of from students who are interested in using Troldtekt in our work with lean. Subsequently, we have employed their projects. We welcome these enquiries and the interone of the two students. est which the students show in us. Contributed knowledge about Cradle to Cradle In 2019, we also participated in these projects: A student from the Institute for Integrated Quality Design at Johannes Kepler University Linz in Austria has Internship provided data base written a thesis on the subject of ‘Cradle to Cradle and Two students from the bachelor programme Value Chain Take back’. To gather knowledge for her thesis, she Management (VIA University College in Horsens) spent spoke to companies with practical experience of this a semester as interns at Troldtekt. Beginning in August issue – and Troldtekt participated in an interview. 2019, the internships took place at our factory in Trold36 TROLDTEKT® CSR REPORT 2019 CASE | NEW COMMUNITY CENTRE IN MØRKE Byens Hus brings light to Mørke The town of Mørke on Djursland has undergone a spectacular urban renewal project, which has, among other things, resulted in a brand new community centre in which sustainability and recycling were key focus areas. Troldtekt donated a ceiling for the building. With hundreds of thousands of Danes following the TV series Lys i Mørke (‘Light in Mørke’, ‘mørke’ being Danish for ‘the dark’), the small railway town on the Jutland peninsula of Djursland has ensured that its urban renewal project is known far and wide. One of the visions for the project which has manifested itself most clearly is the new Byens Hus community centre. The building is a reinterpretation of the old community hall, and was developed and designed by Peter Skjalm from RUM3 Studio. The idea is for the building to be used for everything Jakob Rauff Baungaard has been one of the driving forces from confirmation parties and Christbehind the new community centre. mas markets to community evenings for the town’s residents. “We were keen to have a neutral who was one of the driving forces “Many locals have been involved venue where the town itself could set behind the building project. in the process, both newcomers the agenda. The old community hall and people who have lived here for was not very flexible and accommoBrings everybody together a long time. It has been tough at dating of different types of events. It was very uplifting for Jakob Rauff times, because there was so much At the same time, Mørke also needed Baungaard to see how the town came to do. We had a vision of using recymore venues for celebrating life’s key together to complete Byens Hus in cled materials as much as possible, events, says Jakob Rauff Baungaard, late autumn 2019. so old boards have been planed, we’ve looked for second-hand furniture, and tonnes of bricks have been cleaned,” he explains. On the first floor of the 200-square-metre building, Jakob Rauff Baungaard and the rest of the project group had problems finding a recycled ceiling that would ensure good acoustics in the large room with its vaulted ceiling. “The solution was Troldtekt acoustic panels which tied in well with the building’s sustainable profile. We’re extremely grateful that Troldtekt agreed to support our project by donating a ceiling which is completely in line with the spirit of the place,” says Jakob Rauff Baungaard. CSR REPORT 2019 TROLDTEKT® 37 DATA Our data In order to ensure structured CSR reporting, Troldtekt uses guidelines from the international GRI G4 standard. However, as of 1 July 2018, the GRI G4 guidelines have been superseded by GRI Standards. The CSR report for 2019 is structured in the same way as previous reports, which has resulted in a marked improvement in the quality of our content and data collection. 38 TROLDTEKT® CSR REPORT 2019 DATA – ENVIRONMENT Environment Troldtekt remains a dynamic, growing company. We are seeing a marked increase in demand, and in 2019 we therefore increased our production further, among other things on our brand new production line, which was commissioned in early 2019. Data on the company’s materials consumption therefore shows an increase in the consumption of raw materials etc. Materials consumption All materials are purchased from external suppliers. The data is obtained from supplier invoices or statements provided by suppliers. Renewable Material 2017 2018 2019 Unit material Wood 43,781 50,056 52,978 m3 yes Cement, grey 1,892 1,994 3,081 tonnes no Cement, white 19,777 20,604 26,686 tonnes no Raw materials Accelerator 202,536 188,702 382,350 * litres no Sodium silicate 291,414 254,782 266,229 litres no Paint 409,774 454,348 603,112 ** litres no Water 16,624 17,985 23,442 m3 yes Associated process Asphalt cleaner 4,512 2,893 280 *** litres no materials Mould oil 145,162 130,451 141,361 litres no Cardboard 79 71 96 tonnes yes Packaging Foil 25 35 43 tonnes no Wood pallets 57,295 57,891 81,919 pcs yes *The amount of accelerator has increased significantly. This is due to a new dosing method. An action plan has been launched to reduce consumption again. **The proportion of panels that need to be painted continues to increase. Therefore, paint consumption is increasing. ***The amount of asphalt cleaner has been significantly reduced. We have changed the application method. Previously, we dosed by dripping the cleaner onto the surface – now a very fine spray method is used. Percentage of recycled materials Material 2017 2018 2019 Total proportion of recycled materials as a percentage of total materials consumption 1.5% 1.2% 1.6% Each Troldtekt panel contains cement, which is partially produced from recycled materials (the cement may contain ash and sand from offshore channels). Recycled materials in grey cement: 15.55%, corresponding to 479 tonnes (337 tonnes in 2018). Recycled materials in white cement: 1.49%, corresponding to 398 tonnes (235 tonnes in 2018). The proportion of recycled materials in white cement has increased, resulting in an increased overall share of recycled material. CSR REPORT 2019 TROLDTEKT® 39 DATA – ENVIRONMENT Energy consumption within the organisation The tables below provide an overview of Troldtekt’s energy consumption in 2017-2019. Only energy consumption at the factory in Troldhede is calculated. 2017 2018 2019 Energy consumption (GJ) 88,633 81,553 92,309 Percentage from renewable energy sources 95% 94.6% 96.2% Consumption is distributed across the following entries: Share of total energy Share of Quantity (GJ) consumption renewable Contributes energy to Produced 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 sources emissions externally/internally Electricity consumption 21,742 23,518 27,650 25% 28.8% 30.0% 100% no Externally Biofuel 62,694 53,640 61,178 71% 65.8% 66.3% 100% no Internally + externally Heating oil* 271 < 1% 0% yes Externally Gas (trucks) 1,162 1,346 1,094 1% 1.7% 1.2% 0% yes Externally Diesel (trucks) 2,764 3,049 2,386 3% 3.7% 2.6% 0% yes Externally *Oil is no longer used for heating. Energy intensity 2017 2018 2019 Energy consumption per m2 of produced panel 27.76 MJ 25.47 MJ 21.95 MJ The development affects Troldtekt’s environmental performance Negatively Positively Positively The table ‘Energy consumption within the organisation’ lists which types of energy are included, and whether the energy is produced externally/internally. Reduction of energy consumption 2017 2018 2019 Total energy savings -15,454 GJ -7,336 GJ -14,822 GJ The reduction in energy consumption reflects the gains attributable to our new modern machinery. Direct CO2 emissions (Scope 1) The table presents an overview of direct CO2 emissions from sources that are owned or controlled by Troldtekt. Tonnes CO2 Direct sources of emissions 2017 2018 2019 Biofuels for drying* Heating oil** 19 Gas for trucks 121 141 70 Diesel for trucks 191 211 165 *** Total 331 352 235 *** *Biofuels are regarded as a CO2-neutral energy source. **Oil is no longer used for heating. ***The consumption of gas and diesel for forklift trucks is decreasing as we make the switch to electric trucks. 40 TROLDTEKT® CSR REPORT 2019 DATA – ENVIRONMENT Indirect CO2 emissions (Scope 2) Tonnes CO2 Indirect sources of CO2 emissions 2017 2018 2019 Electricity 0 0 0 Troldtekt uses 100% wind power in the form of renewable energy from the Anholt offshore wind farm (with Climate Investment). Other indirect CO2 emissions (Scope 3) This indicator covers a number of other indirect emissions of CO2 from sources that are not owned or controlled by Troldtekt, but where the CO2 emissions result from the company’s activities. CO2 emissions from transport account for less than 0.5% of total CO2 emissions in Scope 3. In addition, this data is subject to considerable uncertainty. We have therefore decided not to include the CO2 emissions stemming from transport in Scope 3. Tonnes CO2 Indirect sources of CO2 emissions 2017 2018 2019 Production of purchased process materials, raw materials and packaging 25,186 26,857 33,735 CO2 emissions intensity This shows the intensity of CO2 emissions per produced square metre of acoustic panel both in total and broken down according to the information from the three previous tables. Volume (tonnes) Kg CO2/m2 The development affects Troldtekt’s 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 environmental performance In Scope 1 331 352 235 0.10 0.11 0.06 Positively In Scope 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 Status quo In Scope 3 25,186 26,857 33,735 7.89 8.39 8.02 Positively Total CO2 25,517 27,209 33,970 7.99 8.50 8.08 Positively Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Increased production volume has resulted in an increase in total greenhouse gas emissions. However, kg of CO2 per square metre has decreased. Emissions of ozone-depleting substances This provides information about Troldtekt’s emissions of ozone-depleting substances. CFC-11 equivalent (kg) 2017 2018 2019 0.0056 0.0056 0.0073 CSR REPORT 2019 TROLDTEKT® 41 DATA – ENVIRONMENT SOx This shows Troldtekt’s discharges of SOx. SOx equivalent (tonnes) 2017 2018 2019 62.6 70.7 92.3 The increase in SOx emissions reflects the increase in production. Total weight of waste by type and disposal method All waste disposal is carried out by approved suppliers. Waste data has been compiled and supplied by these suppliers. Volume (tonnes) Waste types 2017 2018 2019 Treatment Wood 55.8 72 93.5 Recycled Plastic packaging 1.9 10.8 * 5.8 Recycled Cardboard packaging 5.6 6.2 11.4 Recycled LDPE agricultural film** 2.4 Recycled Iron and metal 55.5 35.5 33.3 Recycled Electronics 2.5 1.8 3.8 Recycled Ash from biofuels 14.5 37.9 71.5 Recycled Concrete 78.1 1 Recycled Hazardous waste for reuse 13.3 6.2 23.1 Recycled Wastewater from painting facility*** 479 596 Recycling/incineration Hazardous waste for incineration 16.0 16.7 7.8 Incineration Suitable for incineration 43.6 54.9 64.7 Incineration Landfill**** 1.4 1.5 0.5 Landfill *The amount of plastic packaging has increased significantly. This is due partly to the commissioning of a new packaging machine, and partly to the establishment of a new factory line as many of the machines were supplied wrapped in plastic. **Due to the wet autumn in 2019, we had to cover our stock of wood (wood stacks) with LDPE agricultural film. ***In 2018, we started collecting the wastewater from our painting processes and sending it to a processing plant. Sludge from painting acoustic panels is sent for incineration, while the treated wastewater is discharged into the public sewers. ****Insulation material is sent for landfill. The amount is determined by the production of two-layer panels. 42 TROLDTEKT® CSR REPORT 2019 DATA – ENVIRONMENT Extent of mitigation of environmental impacts • Our investment in a new production line has resulted in a significant reduction in energy consumption per square metre of produced panel. • We have continually invested massively in reducing noise levels in several places at the factory. • Dust from our edging workshop is transported in closed tankers. The process has been optimised, and has significantly reduced the dust-related problems. • Diesel and gas-powered trucks have been replaced with electric trucks. Percentage of products sold and packaging materials recycled 2017 2018 2019 Wood pallets delivered (qty) 73,745 79,282 91,123 Wood pallets returned (qty) 19,775 20,477 19,733 Wood pallets returned (%) 27 26 22 Sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations Troldtekt has not been sanctioned for failing to comply with environmental laws and regulations in the reporting period. Percentage of screened suppliers – Environment Troldtekt’s Code of Conduct states that our suppliers must strive to minimise the environmental impact of their activities. They must also have procedures to effectively prevent and address any environmental issues and industrial accidents which may impact society and the environment. All new Troldtekt suppliers must sign our Code of Conduct. Only if suppliers comply with the guidelines can they start doing business with us. We have been doing business with many of our suppliers for a number of years, and we generally have a low supplier turnover. Twenty-seven of Troldtekt’s main product-related suppliers have signed Troldtekt’s Code of Conduct. Approx. 90% of our product-related purchases thus come from suppliers who have signed our Code of Conduct. Environmental impacts in the supply chain No. of suppliers who have Percentage categorised in Percentage categorised in Percentage categorised in signed Troldtekt’s CoC low-risk group medium-risk group high-risk group 27 96% 4% 0% All suppliers who have signed our Code of Conduct are categorised in low, medium or high-risk groups. This happens, among other things, on the basis of their specific risk of having a negative environmental impact. We have no suppliers in the high-risk group. Should this happen in future, we will maintain our relations with such suppliers in order to exert a positive influence. We visit our suppliers at regular intervals, and CSR is an important parameter in the dialogue. Grievances about Troldtekt’s environmental impacts In 2019, we were in dialogue with neighbours about noise problems at the factory on a number of occasions. We are always open to dialogue, and we will do our utmost to accommodate our neighbours’ wishes. Based on our dialogue, we have invested heavily in noise-reducing measures. CSR REPORT 2019 TROLDTEKT® 43 DATA – LABOUR CONDITIONS Labour conditions Troldtekt’s employees are the company’s most important asset. Consequently, their safety, health and rights are the foundation stone for our business. We are always seeking to further improve the working environment and make Troldtekt an even more attractive place to work. Social fairness is not just a high priority for our own employees – it is also important that our suppliers treat their employees well. We ensure this through our Code of Conduct. Workforce and employee turnover The table below is a summary of the number of employees and staff turnover in Troldhede and Tranbjerg, and how employees are distributed according to their terms of employment. Please note that the table includes apprentices, flexitimers and paid student interns, while young workers are not included. Employees who have Salaried employees Hourly paid workers New employees left Troldtekt Location Age Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Tranbjerg -30 1 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 31-50 8 10 0 0 2 1 1 0 5110 7 0 0 1 2 0 0 Troldhede -30 0 0 1 5 1 1 0 2 31-50 5 2 2 32 3 6 1 0 514 3 3 33 0 7 0 1 Employment No. in Tranbjerg No. in Troldhede Full-time employees 31 89 Part-time employees, incl. flexitimers 5 2 Permanent employees 36 90 Short-term contracts, including paid student interns 0 0 Total 36 90 Employees in the subsidiaries are not included in the figures. Troldtekt Deutschland GmbH has taken on four salaried employees. Similarly, Troldtekt AB now also has four salaried employees. No. of employees in formal committees In addition to the statutory occupational health and safety committee, Troldtekt has voluntarily set up a liaison committee. Both employees and the management are represented on both. Eight per cent of our total workforce is represented in these formal health and safety committees in Troldtekt. 44 TROLDTEKT® CSR REPORT 2019 DATA – LABOUR CONDITIONS Industrial accidents and absence due to illness The figures cover the 76 hourly paid employees at the factory in Troldhede. Absence due to illness among salaried employees is not fully registered, which is why we have chosen not to include this data in the table. 2017 2018 2019 No. of lost-time injuries 4 2 5 Lost-time injury frequency (no. of industrial accidents/1 million hours 42.43 18.13 36.92 worked) Absence as a result of industrial accident (hours/1,000 hours worked) 9.55* 1.29 2.01 Absence due to illness, total (%) 2.36 3.9 2.63 *The increase in absence due to illness is due to more employees being on long-term sick leave. The number of lost-time injuries increased in 2019. We are increasing our focus on preventive measures. The aim is a reduction in the number of lost-time injuries. Composition of senior employees according to gender and age The following provides a summary of the composition of senior employees in Troldtekt broken down by age and gender in per cent. Women < 30 Women 30-50 Women > 50 Men 30-50 yrs yrs yrs Men < 30 yrs yrs Men > 50 yrs Distribution of senior employees 0% 21% 7% 0% 36% 36% in %* *The figures are rounded off. Percentage of screened suppliers — Labour rights According to Troldtekt’s Code of Conduct, our suppliers must comply with certain guidelines within the field of labour rights. Among other things, they must comply with local legislation concerning a minimum wage, and employees must be paid a wage which ensures them a fair standard of living. Employees must also have the right to paid holiday, absence due to illness, maternity/paternity leave and trade union membership. All new Troldtekt suppliers must sign our Code of Conduct. Only if suppliers comply with the guidelines can they start doing business with us. We have been doing business with many of our suppliers for a number of years, and we generally have a low supplier turnover. Twenty-seven of Troldtekt’s main product-related suppliers have signed Troldtekt’s Code of Conduct. Approx. 90% of our product-related purchases thus come from suppliers who have signed our Code of Conduct. Risk of negative labour practices in the supply chain The status is that 96% of suppliers who have signed our Code of Conduct are placed in the low-risk group, and 4% are in the medium-risk group, and there are no suppliers in the high-risk group. A single supplier accounts for the 4% placed in the medium-risk group, being based in a country where good labour conditions are not enforced through statutory legislation. Troldtekt has visited the supplier, and in this connection conducted a very satisfactory audit (on-site inspection). There have not been any incidents among Troldtekt’s suppliers which required reprimands or other measures. CSR REPORT 2019 TROLDTEKT® 45 DATA – SOCIETY Society At Troldtekt, we want to make a positive contribution to the local communities in which we are present. We are continually engaged in close dialogue with local stakeholders. Moreover, we have established anti-corruption guidelines, and through thorough documentation we are doing everything in our power to make sure that our products contribute to the safety and health of our customers’ buildings. As market leader in Denmark within the production and supply of acoustic solutions, we want to lead the way and set a good example in terms of positively influencing society around us. Anti-corruption: Screened suppliers Troldtekt’s suppliers must neither directly nor indirectly engage in or benefit from any form of corruption or bribery. This is stated in our Code of Conduct, which all new suppliers must sign before they can start doing business with us. We have been doing business with many of our suppliers for a number of years, and supplier turnover is generally low. Twenty-seven of our main product-related suppliers have signed our Code of Conduct. Together, the 27 suppliers represent approx. 90% of our product-related procurement volumes. Anti-corruption guidelines All Troldtekt’s employees are informed about our CSR policy at canteen meetings, and the CSR policy is included in our staff manual. All employees have been informed about this. In 2017, we took steps to future-proof our anti-corruption guidelines. This work continued in 2018 and 2019. All new employees are introduced to the company’s anti-corruption guidelines. Percentage categorised Percentage categorised in Percentage categorised in Number of suppliers screened with CoC* in low-risk group medium-risk group high-risk group 27 96% 4% 0% CORRUPTION *The figures are rounded off. PERCEPTIONS Cases of corruption or bribery INDEX 2019 No cases of corruption or bribery were identified at Troldtekt in 2019. 2017 CPI Score Very 90 100 Corruption perceptions index 2019 Clean 80 89 2017 CPI Score 70 79 Very 90 100 60 69 The perceived levels of public sector Clean CORRUPTION 80 89 50 59 corruption The perceived countries/territories in 180levels of public sector 70 79 60 69 corruption 40 49 30 39 around the world. 50 59 20 29 in 180 countries/territories around the world. 10 19 PERCEPTIONS 40 49 Highly 30 39 Corrupt 0-9 20 29 No data 10 19 Highly Highest scores Corrupt 0-9 INDEX 2018 SCORE COUNTRY/TERRITORY RANK No data 67 Chile 26 53 Italy 51 42 Solomon Islands 77 36 Thailand 101 29 Maldives 130 25 Uzbekistan 153 87 Denmark 1 66 Seychelles 27 53 Malaysia 51 41 Benin 80 35 Albania 106 29 Mali 130 24 Madagascar 158 87 New Zealand 1 65 Taiwan 28 53 Rwanda 51 41 China 80 35 Algeria 106 29 Mexico 130 24 Zimbabwe 158 CORRUPTION 29 Maldives 130 25 86 Uzbekistan Finland 153 3 64 Bahamas 29 53 Saudi Arabia 51 41 Ghana 80 35 Brazil 106 29 Myanmar 130 23 Eritrea 160 29 Mali 130 24 85 Madagascar Singapore 158 4 62 Barbados 30 52 Mauritius 56 41 India 80 35 Cote d'Ivoire 106 29 Togo 130 22 Nicaragua 161 29 Mexico 130 24 85 Zimbabwe Sweden 158 4 62 Portugal 30 52 Namibia 56 41 Morocco 80 35 Egypt 106 28 Dominican 137 20 Cambodia 162 Republic 29 Myanmar 130 The perceived levels of public sector 23 85 Eritrea Switzerland 160 4 62 Qatar 30 52 Oman 56 40 Burkina Faso 85 35 North Macedonia 106 20 Chad 162 PERCEPTIONS 29 Togo 130 22 84 Nicaragua Norway 161 7 62 Spain 30 50 Slovakia 59 40 Guyana 85 35 Mongolia 106 28 Kenya 137 20 Iraq 162 28 Dominican 137 corruption in 180 countries/territories 20 82 Cambodia Netherlands 162 8 61 Botswana 34 48 Cuba 60 40 Indonesia 85 34 El Salvador 113 28 Lebanon 137 19 Burundi 165 Republic 28 Kenya 137 around the world. 20 80 Chad Germany 162 9 60 Brunei 35 48 Greece 60 40 Kuwait 85 34 Kazakhstan 113 28 Liberia 137 19 Congo 165 20 80 Iraq Luxembourg 162 9 Darussalam 28 Mauritania 137 INDEX 2018 48 Jordan 60 40 Lesotho 85 34 Nepal 113 19 Turkmenistan 165 28 Lebanon 137 19 Burundi 165 60 Israel 35 28 Papua New 137 78 Iceland 11 47 Croatia 63 40 Trinidad and 85 34 Philippines 113 18 Democratic 168 28 Liberia 137 Tobago Guinea Republic of 19 77 Congo Australia 165 12 60 Lithuania 35 46 Sao Tome and 64 34 Eswatini 113 28 Mauritania 137 Principe 39 Serbia 91 28 Paraguay 137 the Congo 19 77 Turkmenistan Austria 165 12 60 Slovenia 35 34 Zambia 113 28 Russia 137 18 Guinea Bissau 168 28 Papua New Guinea 137 Lowest scores 18 77 Democratic Canada 168 12 59 Korea, South 39 46 Vanuatu 64 39 Turkey 91 33 Sierra Leone 119 28 Uganda 137 18 Haiti 168 Republic of 59 Saint Vincent and 39 45 Argentina 66 38 Ecuador 93 28 Paraguay 137 77 United the CongoKingdom 12 32 Moldova 120 SCORE COUNTRY/TERRITORY RANK 67 Chile the Grenadines 27 52 45 Grenada Belarus 53 66 41 38 India Sri Lanka 78 93 35 Armenia 105 26 29 Angola Honduras 146 132 18 23 Libya Uzbekistan 168 158 28 Russia 137 76 18 Hong Guinea Kong Bissau 16 168 32 Niger 120 58 66 Cabo Verde Seychelles 41 28 52 45 Italy Montenegro 53 66 41 38 Kuwait Timor-Leste 78 93 35 Brazil 105 26 29 Bangladesh Kyrgyzstan 146 132 17 22 Korea, North Zimbabwe 172 160 28 Uganda 137 88 75 18 87 Denmark Belgium Haiti New Zealand 1 17 168 2 58 65 Cyprus Bahamas The perceived levels of public sector 41 29 52 45 Oman Senegal 53 66 41 37 Lesotho Colombia 78 96 32 35 Pakistan Côte d’Ivoire 120 105 26 29 Guatemala Laos 146 132 16 20 Afghanistan Cambodia 173 161 26 Angola 146 74 18 Estonia Libya 18 168 31 Bolivia 123 26 Bangladesh 146 85 74 17 Finland Ireland Korea, North 3 18 172 58 64 Poland Portugal corruption in 180 countries/territories 41 30 51 44 Mauritius Hungary 56 70 41 37 Trinidad Ethiopia and Tobago 78 96 35 31 Egypt Gabon 105 123 26 29 Honduras Myanmar 146 132 16 20 Equatorial Guinea 161 Democratic Republic 173 56 63 Costa Rica Brunei 44 31 50 Slovakia 57 35 El Salvador 105 26 29 Iran Paraguay 146 132 16 Sudan of 173 26 Guatemala 146 85 73 16 Singapore Japan Afghanistan 3 20 173 56 Darussalam Czech Republic around the world. 44 44 49 Romania Jordan 70 58 37 41 Gambia Turkey 96 78 31 35 Malawi Peru 123 105 26 28 Mozambique Guinea 146 138 16 the Congo Venezuela 173 85 71 Sweden United Arab 3 21 44 South Africa 70 37 Tanzania 96 30 Azerbaijan 126 20 Haiti 161 26 Honduras 146 16 Equatorial Guinea 173 63 56 Taiwan Georgia 31 44 49 Saudi Arabia 58 40 Argentina 85 35 Timor-Leste 105 26 28 Nigeria Iran 146 138 15 Yemen 177 85 Emirates Switzerland 3 44 Suriname 70 37 Vietnam 96 20 Turkmenistan 161 26 Iran 146 16 Sudan 173 62 Qatar 33 40 Benin 85 30 Djibouti 126 84 71 Norway Uruguay 7 21 56 Latvia 44 48 43 Croatia Bulgaria 60 74 36 Bosnia and 101 35 Zambia 105 28 25 Lebanon Cameroon 138 153 13 Syria 178 39 China 87 30 Kyrgyzstan 126 19 Angola 165 26 Mozambique 146 16 Venezuela 173 61 55 Botswana Dominica 34 48 47 Cuba 61 Herzegovina 34 Ecuador 114 28 25 Mexico Central African 138 153 12 South Sudan 179 82 69 Netherlands France 8 23 43 Jamaica 74 19 Chad 165 26 Nigeria 146 15 Yemen 177 61 Israel 34 47 Malaysia 61 39 Serbia 87 30 34 Ukraine Ethiopia 126 114 28 Republic Papua 138 81 69 Canada United States of 9 23 55 Saint Lucia 48 43 Tunisia 74 36 Kosovo 101 9 Somalia 180 38 Bosnia and 89 29 Guinea 130 New Guinea 19 Congo 165 25 Cameroon 153 13 Syria America 178 60 54 Poland Malta SCORE47 36 50 Romania 61 36 Panama 101 34 Niger 114 25 Comoros 153 81 Luxembourg 9 42 Armenia 77 Herzegovina 18 Iraq 168 25 Central African Republic 153 12 68 80 South Sudan Bhutan Germany 179 25 11 60 53 Slovenia Grenada Highly 36 Corrupt 51 46 42 Hungary Bahrain 64 77 36 38 Peru Indonesia Very Clean 101 89 29 33 Laos Moldova 130 117 28 25 27 Russia Tajikistan Comoros 138 153 144 18 Venezuela 168 www.trans 9 Somalia 180 59 Cyprus 38 46 Sao Tome 64 33 Pakistan 117 80 United Kingdom 11 38 Sri Lanka 89 17 Burundi 170 25 Comoros 153 59 Czech Republic and Principe 380-9 10-19 20-29 30-39 40-49 50-59 60-69 70-79 80-89 90-100 No data 33 Vietnam 117 27 Guatemala 144 This work from Transparency International (2019) is licensed 77 Australia 13 38 Swaziland 89 17 Libya 170 25 Tajikistan 153 59 Lithuania 38 46 Vanuatu 64 32 Liberia 120 27 Kenya 144 76 Austria 14 37 Gambia 93 16 Afghanistan 172 58 Georgia 41 45 Greece 67 32 Malawi 120 27 Mauritania 144 76 Hong Kong 14 37 Guyana 93 16 Equatorial Guinea 172 58 Latvia 41 45 Montenegro 67 32 Mali 120 27 Nigeria 144 #cpi2019 76 Iceland 14 37 Kosovo 93 16 Guinea Bissau 172 58 Saint Vincent and 41 45 Senegal 67 32 Ukraine 120 26 Bangladesh 149 75 Belgium 17 37 Macedonia 93 16 Sudan 172 the Grenadines 44 Belarus 70 26 Central African 149 31 Djibouti 124 www.transparency.org/cpi 73 Estonia 18 SCORE 58 Spain 41 44 Jamaica 70 37 Mongolia 93 31 Gabon 124 Republic 14 Korea, North 176 #cpi2019 73 Ireland 18 37 Panama 93 26 Uganda 149 14 Yemen 176 Highly 57 Cabo Verde 45 Very44 Solomon Islands 70 31 Kazakhstan 124 46 TROLDTEKT 73 Corrupt Japan ® CSR REPORT 2019 18 57 Dominica 45 Clean 43 Morocco 73 36 Albania 99 31 Maldives This work from 25 Azerbaijan 152 13 South Sudan 124Transparency International (2020) is licensed under CC BY-ND 4.0 178 www.transparency.org/cpi 72 France 0-9 10-19 20-29 30-3921 40-49 5750-59 Korea, 70-79 80-89 90-100 60-69 South No data 36 Bahrain 99 25 Cameroon 152 13 Syria 178 45 43 South Africa 73 71 United States 22 31 Nepal 124 56 Costa Rica 48 43 Suriname 73 36 Colombia 99 25 Madagascar 152 10 Somalia 180 70 United Arab 23 30 Dominican 129 56 Rwanda 48 43 Tunisia 73 36 Philippines 99 Republic 25 Nicaragua 152 nsparency International (2020) is licensed under Emirates CC BY-ND 4.0 55 Saint Lucia 50 42 Bulgaria 77 36 Tanzania 99 30 Sierra Leone 129 25 Tajikistan 152 70 Uruguay 23 DATA – HUMAN RIGHTS Sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations Troldtekt was not sanctioned for non-compliance with laws and regulations in 2019. Society: Screened suppliers Troldtekt’s Code of Conduct provides guidelines for the company’s cooperation with its suppliers, including criteria relating to their impact on society. All new suppliers must sign our Code of Conduct before they can start doing business with us. Society: Risk classification of suppliers Twenty-six of the 27 suppliers (corresponding to 96%) who have signed our Code of Conduct are placed in the low-risk group, and one supplier (corresponding to 4%) is placed in the medium-risk group. There are no suppliers in the high-risk group. The supplier in the medium-risk group is based in a country where the impact of organisations on society are regulated by law. Troldtekt has visited the supplier, and in this connection conducted a very satisfactory audit (on-site inspection). There have not been any incidents among Troldtekt’s suppliers which required reprimands or other measures. Assessment of products Through our strategic work with Cradle to Cradle certifications, a thorough raw materials assessment has been carried out of Troldtekt’s acoustic panels. As a result of this assessment, we have phased out harmful substances, and Troldtekt acoustic panels are therefore Cradle to Cradle-certified in the Silver category. The panels have also been recognised for their contribution to a healthy indoor climate and have, for example, been awarded the Danish indoor climate label Indeklimamærket, the Finnish quality label M1 and Allergy Friendly UK. Sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning use of products Troldtekt was not sanctioned for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of its products in 2019. Human rights Troldtekt wishes to promote CSR in the construction industry. An important aspect of this work is supporting and promoting human rights. Troldtekt has also made a commitment to this through joining the UN Global Compact. With our Code of Conduct, we want to help ensure that our product-related suppliers respect human rights. Risk of child labour Troldtekt deems there is no risk of child labour in our organisation. Through our Code of Conduct, we take an active approach to the elimination of child labour. Human rights: Screening of suppliers Troldtekt’s suppliers must neither directly nor indirectly be involved in using child labour. This is stated more explicitly in our Code of Conduct, which all new suppliers must sign in order to start doing business with us. Human rights: Risk classification of suppliers Twenty-six of the 27 suppliers (corresponding to 96%) who have signed our Code of Conduct are placed in the low-risk group, and one supplier (corresponding to 4%) is placed in the medium-risk group. There are no suppliers in the high-risk group. The supplier in the medium-risk group is based in a country where there is a general risk that human rights are not respected. Troldtekt has visited the supplier, and in this connection conducted a very satisfactory audit (on-site inspection). There have not been any incidents among Troldtekt’s suppliers which required reprimands or other measures. CSR REPORT 2019 TROLDTEKT® 47 CONTENT INDEX Content index Description Page no. Comments General Management statement 4 Company name 8 Troldtekt’s primary brands, products and services 8 Geographical location of Troldtekt’s head office 9 Countries where Troldtekt is represented 9 Markets 9 Troldtekt’s workforce 44 Troldtekt’s supply chain 9 Committees and associations in which Troldtekt is represented 9 Materiality analysis 2 Stakeholder involvement 2 Reporting period 2 Date of latest report Back page Frequency of reporting 2 Contact information 2 Values 8 CSR policy 11 Code of Conduct 9 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 42 Extent of mitigation of environmental impacts 43 Percentage of products sold and packaging materials recycled 43 Environment Materials consumption 39 Percentage of recycled materials 39 Energy consumption within the organisation 40 Energy intensity 40 Reduction of energy consumption 40 Direct CO2 emissions (Scope 1) 40 Indirect CO2 emissions (Scope 2) 41 Other indirect CO2 emissions (Scope 3) 41 Intensity of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 41 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 41 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances 41 SOx 42 Sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations 43 Percentage of screened suppliers — Environment 43 Risk classification of suppliers — Environment 43 Grievances about Troldtekt’s environmental impacts 43 48 TROLDTEKT® CSR REPORT 2019 CONTENT INDEX Description Page no. Comments Labour conditions Workforce and employee turnover 44 No. of employees in formal committees 44 Industrial accidents and absence due to illness 45 Composition of senior employees according to gender and age 45 Percentage of screened suppliers — Labour rights 45 Risk classification of suppliers — Labour rights 45 Society and product responsibility Percentage of screened suppliers — Anti-corruption 46 Implementation of anti-corruption guidelines 46 Cases of corruption or bribery 46 Sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations 47 Percentage of screened suppliers — Society 47 Risk classification of suppliers — Society 47 Assessment of products 47 Sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning 47 use of products Human rights Risk of child labour 47 Percentage of screened suppliers — Human rights 47 Risk classification of suppliers — Human rights 47 CSR REPORT 2019 TROLDTEKT® 49 STATUS AND NEW OBJECTIVES Status 2019 Category Description of objectives Status General Review of suppliers in relation to the Code of Conduct; evaluObjectives will be transferred to 2020. A plan has ate the current criteria for the classification of suppliers and been drawn up for supplier audits and revision of implement a new risk assessment. the Code of Conduct to make it more operational. General Initiate supplementary training under the auspices of the Realised. All hourly paid employees have been Competence Development Fund of Industry (IKUF). offered interviews with ‘Kompetencegruppen’ at the Municipality of Ringkøbing-Skjern. We have also held language courses. See the article on page 33. Labour conditions Continued focus on safety. The goal is zero industrial acciThe target has not been realised. In 2019, five dents. lost-time injuries were reported. Objectives will be transferred to 2020. See the article on page 32. Environment A crusher is being installed to crush panel waste with a view Partially realised. As crushing waste generates dust to increased recycling in the biological and technical cycles. and noise pollution and poses challenges in relation to our environmental approval, crushing is being outsourced to an external partner. From here, waste is sent for recycling in the biological and technical cycles. The scheme is being prepared so that it can also be rolled out for demolition waste. Environment Explore possibilities for entering into an international develPartially realised. In December 2019, we discussed opment project aimed at exploiting waste heat and water the plan with the project partners. Objectives will vapour from the drying process. be transferred to 2020. New objectives for 2020 Category Description of objectives Status General Review suppliers in relation to the Code of Conduct; evaluate the current criteria for the classification of suppliers and implement a new risk assessment. General Provide a sign language guide for all employees online to make it easier to communicate with deaf colleagues. General Recruitment of trainee/apprentice in both Tranbjerg and Troldhede. Labour conditions Continued focus on safety. The goal is zero industrial accidents. We are initiating: 1) r ules and markings in connection with internal traffic 2) stricter procedures on the use of workwear in high-vis colours 3) stricter guidelines re the use of protective equipment in places where it is needed 4) focus on avoiding heavy lifting 5) focus on preventing falls. Environment Implement the action plan on noise reduction from the original factory line. The action plan has been coordinated with the municipality. Environment Explore possibilities for entering into an international development project aimed at exploiting waste heat and water vapour from the drying process. Environment Reduce the CO2 footprint from the production of acoustic panels, among other things through cooperating with Aalborg Portland on the possibility of procuring cement with a lower footprint. 50 TROLDTEKT® CSR REPORT 2019 Troldtekt A/S Address Head office Sletvej 2A, DK-8310 Tranbjerg J Production and warehouse Østergade 37, Troldhede, DK-6920 Videbæk CSR report 2019 This report was uploaded to the UN’s Global Compact on 15 June 2020 Editors Responsible: Tina Snedker Kristensen Data: Peer Leth , Orla Jepsen and Renate Blom Editing & copywriting: Publico Layout & photos: Tommy Kosior Contact Tina Snedker Kristensen Head of Marketing and Communications tkr@troldtekt.dk +45 87 47 81 24 About Troldtekt Troldtekt acoustic solutions for ceiling and wall cladding are among the leading products for ensuring good acoustics, effective fire protection and a healthy indoor climate. The company’s main product is Troldtekt acoustic panels which are made from wood and cement and which are Cradle to Cradle-certified in the Silver category. Troldtekt acoustic panels are the obvious choice for ceilings in most types of buildings – from offices and commercial buildings to schools, institutions, swimming pools, sports centres and private homes. Troldtekt A/S was founded in 1855 as a trading company in Aarhus. Since 1935, the company has produced Troldtekt cement-bonded wood wool in Troldhede in western Jutland. Certifications
