Communication on Progress (COP) ORB International Period covered by COP: 03 July 2019 to 03 July 2020 1. Statement of continued support by the Managing Director 01 July 2020 To our stakeholders: I hereby reaffirm ORB International’s ongoing support for the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact. These ten principles are outlined below: Human Rights Labour 1. Businesses should support and 3. Businesses should uphold the respect the protection of freedom of association and the internationally proclaimed human effective recognition of the right rights; and to collective bargaining; 2. Make sure that they are not 4. The elimination of all forms of complicit in human rights abuses. forced and compulsory labour; 5. The effective abolition of child labour; and 6. The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Anti-corruption 7. Businesses should support a 10. Businesses should work against precautionary approach to corruption in all its forms, environmental challenges; including extortion and bribery. 8. Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and 9. Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. In this annual Communication on Progress, we will outline the actions we have taken in the last year to improve the integration of Global Compact and its principles into ORB’s business strategy, working culture, and day-to-day operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders in the future. Yours sincerely, Jonathan Heald Managing Director, ORB International (UK) Communication on Progress (COP) 2. Description of actions taken Our approach to implementing the Ten Principles into our work is premised on our understanding that our stakeholders divide into four key groups, and that the needs of each group should be borne in mind when devising policy and planning our work. These groups are: 1. Our employees; 2. Our partner organisations and affiliates; 3. Our research participants across the world; and 4. Society at large. While change can be enacted most easily at the lowest level, among our employees, we will continue to push to further the positive impact our work can have among our partners, research participants, and society at large, in line with the Ten Principles recognised in the Global Compact. Actions taken over the last year in the four key areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-corruption are outlined below, and we are committed to further action over the coming year. Human Rights • ORB International continues to ensure safe, suitable and sanitary work facilities for all employees and has made changes to the office environment to improve employee well-being (e.g. installation of improved office kitchen, extension of bike parking to facilitate cycling to work); • In light of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, ORB International enacted a range of measures to protect staff. These include encouraging full-time working from home before the announcement of UK ‘lockdown’, provision of equipment to enable efficient and comfortable working from home (monitors, etc.), and a range of safety measures put in place once the office reopened to ensure ongoing employee safety; • ORB International operates a zero-tolerance policy for harassment of any kind (including but not limited to physical, verbal, sexual or psychological harassment, abuse or threats) and has reviewed its Anti-Bullying and Harassment Policy; Grievance Procedure; and Commitment to Equal Opportunities Statement, appointing an HR focal point to ensure any and all issues can be confidentially resolved; • ORB International works to promote fair working practices among our partner organisations, particularly in the area of employing women in local interviewing teams; • ORB International has written and implements a Gender Sensitive Research Approach, ensuring that the views and needs of women are considered throughout the research process, and at every step of our supply chain (e.g. including women in research as both participants and researchers, ensuring safe and appropriate interviewing conditions for female research participants, etc.); • As part of our commitment to accessible education and to contributing to the societies in which we work, ORB has had an ongoing partnership with a school Communication on Progress (COP) project for orphaned children in Bungoma, Kenya for the last seven years, supporting them with funding to enable them to rent their buildings. Labour • ORB continues to ensure that we do not participate in any form of forced or bonded labour, either directly or indirectly; • ORB has updated its Anti-Modern Slavery Policy this year and will be requiring all staff to undergo a CDP certified training course as part of our commitment to fighting Modern Slavery; • ORB works to ensure that all future recruitment is as free as possible from bias or discrimination against any group; • ORB only uses suppliers who comply with all local employment legislation in the countries in which they operate, all relevant International Labour Organisation (ILO) conventions and the UK’s Modern Slavery Act 2015; • ORB conducted a thorough review of its Procurement Policy this year and now request all suppliers to provide confirmation of their commitment to comply with our ethical, social and environmental standards before commissioning them for any project. Environment • ORB continues to prioritise environmental considerations when making changes to e.g. working practises, office decoration and maintenance; • ORB remains committed to recycling all possible waste materials produced by our business; • ORB uses ethically sourced toilet paper and hand-towels made from recycled paper; • ORB encourages employees to use green methods of transport for commuting to and from work, for instance via our Cycle to Work Scheme; • ORB further encourages staff to fly only when absolutely necessary, using VoIP and other electronic meeting tools wherever possible to coordinate with suppliers and clients overseas in order to reduce our carbon footprint; Anti-Corruption • ORB continues to work to factor the risk of corruption into project design and management when setting up new projects, especially in countries scoring low on Transparency International’s Corruption Perceptions Index; • ORB has reviewed and republished its Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy with detailed ‘Dos’ and ‘Don’ts’ for employees and suppliers; • ORB has further instituted a ‘Hospitality Ledger’ for all staff to record any inkind benefits received or given; • ORB continues to work to implement ethical behaviour requirements when working with local partners, especially in countries where corruption is endemic. Communication on Progress (COP) 3. Measurement of Outcomes Outcomes of our efforts in the last year are outlined below. In the coming year we will identify further ways in which the progress of our efforts can be measured so as to ensure we can monitor ongoing progress. • Improved protections for employees, suppliers, respondents and supply chain due to improved policies on Gender Sensitivity, Anti-Bribery and Corruption, Anti-Bullying and Harassment, Duty of Care and Modern Slavery, among others. Commitment to staff training in these specialist areas will ensure their ongoing implementation; • Swift implementation of work-from-home measures and enhanced hygiene and safety considerations upon office re-opening have so far prevented any ORB employee knowingly contracting COVID-19; • Reduced carbon footprint of staff commuting as employees successfully switch from public transport to walking / cycling to work; • Further reduction in the amount of recyclable waste going to landfill thanks to improved recycling facilities (estimated at an improvement from <10% to >30%).
