UN Global Compact CoP 2020 United Nations Global Compact HETTL CONSULT Zwieselweg 24 91189 Rohr/Nuremberg Germany Communication of Progress 2020 Rohr, December 2020 HETTL CONSULT 1/11 UN Global Compact CoP 2020 Period covered by our COP: December 2019 – December 2020 Statement of Continued Support by our CEO We hereby declare that HETTL CONSULT, located in Germany in the 8th year continues to embrace the United Nations Global Compact and its ten principles and that we actively integrate the principles into our daily business activities. We strongly believe in the value of this global network and its emphasis on the enlightened self-interest of all relevant social actors, including companies. Our Business HETTL CONSULT is a leadership training and management consultancy company offering various trainings, personal development programmes, CEO and executives coaching, human resources check-ups, strategy development and strategy workshops. As of today 15 staff members work from our office in Rohr/Nuremberg all around the world, mainly in Europe. In our work we help companies and individuals to develop their potential in leadership and in management with a focus on sustainable development. Our Commitment We perceive environmental and social challenges as opportunities for private enterprise to provide innovative and entrepreneurial solutions towards sustainable development. Thus, in our training and consulting activities, we sensitize and help our clients and other stakeholders to work towards a more sustainable development. Following our 2019 COP Report, we are happy to report again in 2020, on our activities and new activities in all four areas Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption including information on measurement of outcomes. With kindest regards December 2020, Dr. Matthias Hettl, CEO HETTL CONSULT 2/11 UN Global Compact CoP 2020 PART I: HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: Business should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Assessment, Policies and Goals: At HETTL CONSULT, we adhere to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and to national laws. Again in 2020, HETTL CONSULT has not identified any internal human rights issues. For 2020, we will continue to monitor this field of actions and develop advanced measures of implementation as seen appropriate. Our goal is to maintain our zero abuse record and to continue to be an attractive and responsible employer. Implementation: HETTL CONSULT enforced a set of policies regarding Human Rights policies. HETTL CONSULT has published all relevant details on employees’ rights, duties and resources within the organization on its own intranet. This includes policies regarding stress and overtime regulations, pregnancy, illness, health, offers of vocational training as well as guidelines related to professional ethics, best management practices and standard processes and procedures. Measurement of Outcomes: HETTL CONSULT is a strong believer in participatory governance and participation. On a regular and structured basis, HETTL CONSULT employees are asked to give feedback, raise complaints and issues and share ideas for improvement. We have established a monthly all-company-call to address general updates, responsible planning and resource allocation and to give space for questions and concerns. All partners offer an open door policy that encourages employees to directly express ideas and questions. We actively support a culture of trust and organizational learning. HETTL CONSULT has received no complaints from employees, business partners or clients in relation to (potential) human rights violations, nor was the organization involved in any human rights incidences before or during the reporting period. Because of the scope of our activities and the limited number of employees, an external audit on human rights performance is not considered necessary. HETTL CONSULT 3/11 UN Global Compact CoP 2020 Part II: LABOR PRINCIPLES Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Assessment, Policies and Goals: HETTL CONSULT adheres strictly to all required labour rights, including nondiscrimination and equal opportunities, the freedom of association and right to collective bargaining, workplace health and safety, as well as conditions of employment and work (wages, working hours, leave, benefits etc). HETTL CONSULT is an equal opportunities employer that evaluates its employees by merits only and not on grounds of gender, sexual orientation, race or religion. In addition, our company has developed further policies and measures to underline our strong belief that our employees are the most valuable asset of the company and should be able to unfold their full potential as individuals and members of the team. Implementation: Promoting workplace health and safety HETTL CONSULT continues to adhere to all national laws and regulation concerning workplace health and safety. For example: Annual check of all electric devices (UV BGV A3), annual meeting with experts on health and safety, annual on-sight review with experts, regular first-aid training and offer to employees for eyesight check-ups. In addition, HETTL CONSULT provides the best possible office equipment to its employees to cater to special health and illness prevention needs, e.g. desk lamps that offer more natural light to decrease eyesight stress or ergonomically designed keyboards on demand. Furthermore we offer fresh fruit and beverages free in our offices to promote healthy nutrition. The food and the beverages which are offered are only fair trade products and are solely organic food and organic water (Demeter and Neumarkter Lammsbräu). HETTL CONSULT 4/11 UN Global Compact CoP 2020 Creating a modern working environment HETTL CONSULT promotes family-friendly working-conditions and career opportunities well beyond the average numbers or quotas in management consultancy. Sixty percent of our workforce employees and 42% of our senior Management (senior members, partners and members of the executive board) are female. In 2020 twenty percent currently work part-time; of those are all females. Our company has developed family-friendly work schemes to facilitate a healthy worklife balance, including teleworking, part-time work opportunities and extended return programmes for stay-at home parents. In 2020, approximately 30% of our employees worked part-time. HETTL CONSULT also fully supports its employees to take advantage of parental-leave schemes. In 2020, 1 employee has taken that opportunity. Professional Development Activities HETTL CONSULT believes in high-quality training for the future generation. Again in 2020, our company prepares to train one young professional in a twoto threeyear formal, paid apprenticeship program. Additionally, we offered 1 internship in 2020, giving insights and skills development in various fields. Continuing the high standards and extensive variety of professional development opportunities offered to our employees has been a core goal of our company. Thus, we have taken a number of essential measures to further enhance this important process of professional improvement and development. We continually improve the offerings of our internal training and development programme. In 2020, HETTL CONSULT conducted 30 live online training courses (up from 20 in 2019) in the areas: methods, leadership, learning organisations, self-management, timemanagement and facilitated five Lunch & Learn sessions. HETTL CONSULT has been able to continue its offering of dedicated and tailor-made education programmes for employees, continuing to teach core skills necessary for our work and in this way to wisely use the available time and resources during slower project periods. These training offerings are predominantly hosted by HETTL CONSULT staff, facilitating knowledge flows within the organisation as well as offering personal and professional development for those hosting these events as well as to the participants. With the wealth of learning and on-the-job-training offered by HETTL CONSULT to its employees a key feature of our success and our ability to attract the most important talents for our business, it has been important for HETTL CONSULT to maintain and enlarge the portfolio of these offerings. HETTL CONSULT 5/11 UN Global Compact CoP 2020 Improving the quality of work through an open culture and promotion of diversity We lay emphasis on an open corporate culture, which allows for mistakes to be made and that promotes the strengths of each member of the HETTL CONSULT team. Participation is a core principle that guides us both in our work with clients and internally, as are open communication, regular and structures feedback and appraisal mechanisms, all of which are actively practiced at HETTL CONSULT. We support the initiative “Diversity as an Opportunity” which was launched by Maria Böhmer, Minister of State in the Federal Chancellery and Federal Government Commissioner for Migration, Refugees, and Integration. The aim of implementing the ‘Charter for Diversity’ within our company is to create a working environment that is free of prejudice. All our employees should experience appreciation – regardless of gender, race, nationality, ethnicity, religion or philosophy of life, disability, age, sexual orientation or identity. Recognising and promoting this diverse potential creates economic advantages for our company. We actively work to create a climate of acceptance and mutual trust. This has positive consequences for the recognition we receive from our partners and customers, both here in Germany and in other countries throughout the world. Measurement of Outcomes: HETTL CONSULT has received no grievances or complaints from employees, the external advisory board or others in relation to (potential) labour rights violations, nor was the organization involved in any labour rights incidences before or during reporting period. Our participatory approach, already described in the paragraphs in Part I, helps us constantly keeping in touch with our employees and their concerns and needs. Based on the objective to eliminate discrimination and promoting organisational learning and feedback, HETTL CONSULT is constantly reviewing its project feedback schemes and other feedback mechanisms within its working structure. Every year, each employee engages in structured interviews and discussions with their direct reports to set and discuss professional goals and assess personal strengths and opportunities for improvement. Those discussions are guided by the HETTL CONSULT “LEAD-Navigator®” and CHEF-Navigator®, two self-developed tools, which are under trademark protection, to assess talents and personal performance. Futhermore, on project level, a project feedback scheme consist of an institutionalised exchange between project management and employees. HETTL CONSULT 6/11 UN Global Compact CoP 2020 Part III: ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility, and; Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Assessment, Policies and Goals: Our contribution to environmental solutions is guided by strict internal policies and continued innovation and improvement. We adhere to national and international standards to advance responsibility in environmental matters. We also promote energy efficiency, waste avoidance and recycling as core elements of our daily business practice among our employees. In 2013, an internal working group was launched to develop a coherent and ambitious HETTL CONSULT Sustainability Strategy and initiate projects and activities to make HETTL CONSULT a leading innovator and implementer of sustainability solutions. In 2020 all of the following activities were continued and institutionalized: Implementation: Activities to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and waste With carbon dioxide being the primary cause of human-induced global warming, we work to analyze, identify and substitute our impact as much as possible. • We have a travel and car policy that aims to reducing greenhouse gas emissions. Our employees are required to use the most environment-friendly means of transportation whenever possible primarily public transport. Some employees use bicycles to reach the offices. • In 2020 HETTL CONSULT continued to support the use of green energy powered public transportation by financing reduced schemes (BahnCard 50) to replace or reduce airtravel. Those schemes are available to employees also for private use. Starting 2014, all long-distance travel by BahnCard holders has been powered by 100% renewable energy. • HETTL CONSULT demands that all company cars be used in accordance with the European Union standards for fuel consumption and CO2 emissions. Some company cars are pooled and available on a per needs basis. Company cars are leased, and we make sure that they are equipped with the best available filter technology to reduce emissions of fine particulate dust. HETTL CONSULT 7/11 UN Global Compact CoP 2020 • HETTL CONSULT continued to improve a system for telephone and video conferences for internal meeting across offices as well as with clients. This initiative has allowed us to reduce the number of travelled kilometres, including domestic and transatlantic flights and thus has contributed significantly to the reduction of HETTL CONSULT’s greenhouse gas emissions. • The office heating system is centrally steered and adapts, together with the lighting and blinds system, to the outside conditions, helping reduce energy consumption. • We use as our major primary energy a pellet heating system. This allows us to reduce carbon dioxide and to fight against the greenhouse effect. • At HETTL CONSULT we build awareness to reduce our waste creation and printing activities by promoting double-sided printing. We only procure highefficiency and sustainable printers (labelled with the “Energy Star” or “TCO”) to further reduce our environmental footprint. For office printing, we exclusively use 100% degradable and recyclable paper that is certified totally chlorine free, licensed by the Nordic Swan and certified by ISO 9001 and 14001 as well as licensed by FSC. • Again in 2020, HETTL CONSULT continued the sustainable procurement measures started in 2014 by working only with certified supply providers. Office materials are chosen according to environmentally friendly purchasing guidelines. • Again in 2020, HETTL CONSULT office received their energy supply form 100% renewable energy provider. • In 2020, HETTL CONSULT continued to use all its mail correspondence to a green-mailing provider that compensates CO2 emissions by investments in climate-friendly projects. • Additional at HETTL CONSULT we try to reduce the amount of paper for example by using the possibility of sending electronic bills to our costumer. • As mentioned above HETTL CONSULT lays great importance on the use of organic wholefoods and regional products in our offices. We believe in the merit of unprocessed and local foods and offer these, especially as fruit that is offered to customers and employees free of charge in our offices. All of our fruit is from organic sources (coffee, milk, fruits). In addition we also purchase regional organic products, such as fruit and drinks, via local suppliers. HETTL CONSULT 8/11 UN Global Compact CoP 2020 • For our Trainings & Seminars we use 100% recyclable folders with the sign “Blauer Engel”. Paper handouts are also on recycled paper, FSC-certified and also with the sign “Blauer Engel”. Our ballpens are out of FSC-certified wood from domestic forestry. Our notepads are also from recycled paper with the “Blauer Engel” sign. We use pockets from 100% recycling-PP, with can be recycled to 100% after use. • We try to reduce the use of paper by sending seminar scripts online to participants. We encourage participants to use online tools to work with our “electronic” handouts. Actions to disseminate greater environmental responsibility For the planning and facilitation of our events and those of our clients and partners, we adhere to guidelines for environmentally-friendly events“ by the German Ministry of the Environment „Leitfaden für die umweltgerechte Organisation von Veranstaltungen“. We work to reduce the use of resources, order regional and seasonal products for catering, and prioritize venues that are easily accessible by public transport. Furthermore, we consult our clients on how to compensate for CO2-emissions caused by events. Activities to encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. For several years, HETTL CONSULT is encouraging and sensitise his customers to use more renewable energy technologies. On a voluntary basis, HETTL CONSULT serves as an expert on participatory processes to promote synergies between science, government, business and civil society in the context of environmentally friendly and sustainable technologies. Again in 2020 HETTL CONSULT continues its engagement in the Committee on Technology and Society of the Association of German Engineers (Verein Deutscher Ingenieure, VDI) as a member and advisor on participatory processes. Measurement of Outcomes: HETTL CONSULT is using an IT system that facilitates exchange between employees and with external partners. This system includes a general chatroom and various internal theme-based chatrooms, where employees can exchange suggestions and best practice, ask questions and start collective activities. HETTL CONSULT 9/11 UN Global Compact CoP 2020 Our continuous improvement system is a well received and actively used forum for improvements and innovative suggestions to help reduce our environmental impact and to reward environmental responsibility. The results are communicated and when necessary awareness programs for employees initiated. Fuel consumption and CO2 emissions form company cars are recorded. Energy consumption is monitored. HETTL CONSULT also constantly continues to investigate trends and develop strategies to engage in cooperative processes to further public and private sector efforts towards sustainable development. HETTL CONSULT 10/11 UN Global Compact CoP 2020 Part IV: ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Assessment, Policies and Goals: HETTL CONSULT and our employees do not accept any form of corruption and work against bribery and extortion. Therefore, neither employees nor members of the management team accept remuneration outside of the agreed quotation unless it is formally agreed upon. Again in 2020, HETTL CONSULT has not any issues with corruption. We will continue our internal review of potential field of actions and develop measures of implementation as seen appropriate. Implementation: HETTL CONSULT only accepts assignments which are within the range of our expertise and experience and are compatible with our vision and mission. Should an assignment move in a direction that is inconsistent with our vision and mission, we discuss this with the client and, if necessary, withdraw from the assignment. HETTL CONSULT strongly supports transparency in all its engagements with all clients and enforces open communication to prevent conflicts of interests. In cases where conflicts of interest might occur, Hettl Consult will if necessary withdraw from the assignment. Measurement of Outcomes: There have been no cases of corruption in the line of our work over the course of the organization’s existence. If such a situation might arise, HETTL CONSULT will take appropriate action and ultimately withdraw from the assignment. The situation will be evaluated afterwards. HETTL CONSULT 11/11
