CSR-report 2019 1 Contents CEO Statement CEO Statement .................................................................... 03 Our business model in NORDEX FOOD is to develop, manufacture, market and/or The way we work with CSR ................................................. 04 sell a wide assortment of ”White Cheeses and more” which are Respect for Human Rights .................................................. 06 inspired by/originating from the Southeast-Mediterranean area with Labour, social responsibility and work environment .......... 08 the objective to satisfy the demand for these products, either fulfill basic or Work environment ............................................................ 10 experimental needs 3 x Dairies ........................................................................... 12 The CSR report in NORDEX FOOD describes our policies for the 4 Global Support for local communities ........................................... 14 Compact areas as well as 2 more for NORDEX FOOD relevant areas – Animal Environmental and climate impact .................................... 16 Welfare and Food Safety. RSPO ................................................................................... 18 Furthermore, it contains a general description of how we specifically have Energy-efficiency investments ............................................ 20 worked with these 6 core areas as well as a risk assessment related to activities Waste reduction ................................................................. 22 which can impact our CSR negatively. Anti-corruption and -bribery .............................................. 24 We do not yet have the report we want, but we are closer than last year, and we Food safety and Quality ..................................................... 26 are working to get there. Animal welfare ................................................................... 28 It is our ambition to add KPIs and clear goals within each of the core areas. It is furthermore our ambition to integrate some of UN’s 17 sustainable development goals (SDGs) into our policy. Enjoy reading Martin Aagaard Pedersen 2 3 The way we work with CSR CSR stands for Corporate Social 6. The elimination of discrimination in The ten principles are basically about Responsibility. Companies can engage respect of employment and making demands on ourselves and on in CSR motivated by many different occupation. our value chain. To make it more reasons. Our work with CSR in the tangible, we can look at some examples NORDEX FOOD is derived from the Environment of how we can and will work with CSR: following motives: 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to n We can work to improve our n We want to be part of making the environmental challenges; employee’s health and safety world a better place to live in now and 8. Undertake initiatives to promote environment internally in the in the future. greater environmental responsibility; company. and n We can develop new products/ n Our customers, consumers and 9. Encourage the development and services which have a positive social employees are requesting it => license diffusion of environmentally friendly or environmental impact. to operate technologies n We can work systematically with environmental and global climate n We have got a legal obligation. Anti-Corruption impact. 10. Businesses should work against n We can demand from our suppliers n It pays off in the long run. corruption in all its forms, including that they adhere to human and extortion and bribery. labour rights. FN’s Global Compact has defined 4 n We can partner with our suppliers main areas covering 10 principles to As of the 11th of December 2018, to improve social and environmental guide CSR work in companies.. NORDEX FOOD (NORDEX FOOD A/S) conditions. joined the UN Global Compact (UNGC), Human Rights which obliges us to integrate the 10 1. Businesses should support and principles into our business activities respect the protection of internationally and report back to the UNGC on the proclaimed human rights; and efforts made. 2. Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 4. The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; 5. The effective abolition of child labor; and 4 5 Respect for n Article 2. n Article 20. Human Rights Everyone is entitled to all the rights Everyone has the right to freedom of and freedoms set forth in the Declarapeaceful assembly and association. tion, without distinction of any kind, such as race, color, sex, language, n Article 24. religion, political or other opinion, Everyone has the right to rest and The basic values in NORDEX FOOD national or social origin, property, leisure, including reasonable limitation are: birth or other status. of working hours and periodic holidays with pay. n Article 3. n Autonomy Everyone has the right to life, liberty and security of person. n Article 25. (1) Everyone has the right to a standard n Integrity n Article 7. of living adequate for the health and well-being of himself and of his family. n Responsibility All are equal before the law and are entitled without any discrimination to n Article 26. n Ownership equal protection of the law. Everyone has the right to education. n Article 12. We will, to the best of our ability, try No one shall be subjected to arbitrary to avoid and mitigate possible negative All decisions taken in NORDEX FOOD are based on interference with his privacy, family, effects of these. these 4 values. These are only words if you don’t home or correspondence, nor to attacks upon his honor and reputation. In 2020 we will send a NORDEX FOOD live up to them. The values have been a part of our Supplier Code of Conduct to the management and corporate culture since the n Article 19. largest and most relevant suppliers. Everyone has the right to freedom of beginning in 1984. We ARE these values – recently opinion and expression. we have also defined them in words – not the other way around. NORDEX FOOD respect human rights. We follow UN’s 1948 Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Not all 30 rights in the UN Declaration are directed towards businesses. NORDEX believes that with our work we can influence the following rights: 6 7 Labor and social responsibility Since the founding of the company in 1984, NORDEX FOOD has n We have followed up on OHA Psychology / Wellbeing which was strived for high employee wellbeing. It is rooted in our corporate also applied in Dronninglund at the end of 2017. Our level related to culture to create a workplace with a focus on a good working wellbeing is extremely high. The only minor remark was on “bullyenvironment including health, safety and well-being. ing and offensive behavior” and we will not accept that. In 2018, we have therefore had bullying and abusive behavior as a topic for discussion in our appraisal conversations and a policy for abusive Work environment behavior was made. With very great pressure on the organization Everyone in the company is responsible for and must contribute to a and resources from our ERP project D365, the well-being in 2018 is good working environment in a collaboration between the company, not assessed in the same depth as the measurement in 2017. Efforts the managers and the employees. are being made to close the gaps on the resource side. The goal is, of course, to return to the same level as in 2017, when we conduct a A good working environment is hence a shared responsibility, by the new wellbeing survey in November 2019. working environment committee under the name of “Arbejdsmiljø. organisationen”, AMO (staff employer welfare committee) in all our n Ergonomic advice has been offered by a visiting physiotherapist companies with more than 50 employees. who has instructed the employees on good working positions. Each year, AMO prepares an annual plan for the working environment. In addition to the annual overall discussion and planning, Nørager Dairy (125 employees): AMO conducts meetings as needed, at least quarterly. Minutes are made from the meetings and this is placed on the company’s n Measurement of social capital in 2018: Good result with a few intranet, where the annual plans can also be found. focus areas including workshop, packing and quality. Following up at the end of December 2018, a plan for workshops and action plans At our dairies, hard physical work is done, so here we have a special is made in the AMO (staff employer welfare committee) between focus on avoiding accidents and preventing wear and tear. management and employees.. n A visible recognition of the achievements made was expressed, 2018 Activities/results/hedging risks 2018 among other things, when Nørager Mejeri received the Cooperation Prize 2018 from the “Mejeriindustriens Samarbejdsforum” (Dairy Industry Cooperation Forum). Dronninglund HQ (80 employees): n During 2019 we will measure accidents and well-being of all n We have followed up on Occupational Health Assessment (OHA) our 3 dairies.. Physical which was made at the head office in Dronninglund at the end of 2017. The challenges were limited space and noise due to many people in one room. During the year 2018, we have created an extra 750 square meters of office space. In 2019 we will follow up with new OHA Physical approx. 3-4 months after offices and desks have been placed, which means in the autumn 2019. 8 9 Work environment 2019 Activities/results/hedging risks 2019 Dronninglund HQ: In January 2019, we started moving into the new office building which among others solved the problem about space and noise due In general, the organization and the available resources has been to crowded offices. By the end of 2019, the OHA on our physical under strong pressure with the ERP D365 running alongside keepwork environment was renewed. The survey showed the following ing the daily business running. Unfortunately, this has led to more major concerns: sick leave due to stress related symptoms and subsequently the sick leave percentage has increase from 2018 to 2019. n Space, noise and acoustics in the canteen n Noise and temperature from the ventilation system We have balanced the pressure through new appointments where in the new office building relevant. n Lighting the old office building n Ergonomics and working positions at intensive During autumn 2019 we have implemented “One-2-One”-meetings PC-screen and desk work every second month. It is an individual talk between the employee and his/her direct manager to address issues relating to tasks, These concerns will be discussed and processed in our AMO during responsibilities, work environment etc. 2020. Furthermore, we have launched actions like e.g. free daily fruit, masDuring 2020, we will implement a HR-dashboard with monthly upsage, and a recreational as well as a games room for a mental break dates on sick leave, overtime and on general well-being. The dashduring the working day. board shall serve as an early-warning system and be indicative for more underlying and more hidden problems on both the physical as The 2019-repetition of the OHA Psychology / Wellbeing confirmed a well as psychological work environment. high level of employee satisfaction though it shows a modest overall decline compared to the 2017-survey. Based on the new survey the involved external consultants recommend a focus on: n emotional demands n role clarity n burn out n stress n sleeping difficulties The new survey also shows that 1-2 employees experience bullying and unwanted sexual attention. We do not accept this offensive behavior and this, as well as the themes listed above, will be addressed during 2020. 10 11 3 x Dairies Nørager Dairy Nordex Romania During 2019, Nørager Dairy has had a continued focus on social Due to absence of a key employee, focus has been on involving capital and followed the actions plans established based on the employees in planning and decision processes. Furthermore, a new 2018-survey. Social Capital is a common denominator for cooperaorganization is implemented with team leaders in each department. tive/interpersonal skills, justice and trust as well as credibility employees in-between and between employees and the A KPI-system is implemented, among others with a weekly survey of management. the general wellbeing of the employees. The result is published on boards throughout the dairy. A special focus area has been work accidents. That is registration of both accidents and near-to accidents as well as preventing. 2019 has In 2020, the focus on involvement, education and training of the shown a decrease in the number of accidents compared to 2018 and employees continues. this positive development has continued in to 2020. We changed the organizational set-up in 2019 by adding a team Nordex Käserei leader function. The purpose was to limit the number of direct report for the operational managers and thus increasing the Until now, we have had a more defensive approach to the work manager’s presence and availability for the employees. environment in Nordex Käserei. In general, there is a positive development in the work environment The necessary action has been taken on a reactive basis to the chalin Nørager Dairy, also exemplified by an invitation to do a presentalenges that has arisen during 2019. In 2020, the ambition is a more tion of our “work environment journey” on the yearly work environactive approach, among others with regular monthly surveys of the ment day in the dairy industry. general well-being of the employees. In 2020, Nørager Dairy will repeat the Social Capital survey as well as a general OHA survey. SICK LEAVE 2019: Head quarter, Dronninglund: 4.74 % Nørager Dairy: 6.21 % Nordex Käserei: 6.70 % Nordex Romania*: 0.44 % Here off long-term illness: Head quarter Dronninglund: 3.51 % Nørager Dairy: Equivalent to 2-3 % Nordex Käserei: Equivalent to 2-3 % *)The sick leave is very low. We will investigate what they do and see if it can be transferred to the other dairies. 12 13 Support for the local Support for Denmark community and the world Activities/results/hedging risks 2019 Activities/results/hedging risks 2019 Every year NORDEX FOOD decides to support specific cases in the Every year NORDEX FOOD decides to support specific cases in local community. Some cases are ongoing, some we support every Denmark and the world, some cases are ongoing, some we support year, and other cases are one-off events. every year, and other cases are one-off events. Examples: Examples: n To support the local community, we have hired students for n We supported “Danmarks indsamling” in 2019, which is an leisure jobs. Then they can make some money next to the studies. annual recurring event organized by 12 Danish humanitarian They work a few hours a week, thus helping one or more of our organizations. The objective is different every year, in 2019 is was employees with their tasks. “Empower the girls of the world”. n We support the local art center, Dronninglund Kunstcenter, with n Through our membership of “Mejerifolk uden grænser” both time, materials and economic support. (Dairy people without borders) we have helped two girls in Mongolia receive a dairy education, to strengthen the local milk cooperative ‘Blessed by Yakox’. The small milk cooperative is in Northern Mongolia, where a new small dairy has recently been built. As planned, the two girls will go off to work after graduation so that they can return to the small dairy cooperative with t heoretical as well as practical experience. n We supported the planting and preservation of trees and forest in Denmark in 2019 to preserve clear-cut forest and increase the forest realm, which in turn can absorb and retain CO2 from the atmosphere. 14 15 Environmental and n Nordex Romania: The lower electricity consumption is due to the production method. Water is used as part of the product which climate impact means they have the lowest consumption of water besides what is used as part of the product. n Nordex Käserei: We are aware that the electricity consumption is pretty high in comparison with the other dairies, and it will be NORDEX FOOD consists of offices, warehouses and production. In all investigated. Due to many small productions with several cleanings three areas, we strive to reduce and limit our impact on the environin between, they have the highest water consumption. ment and climate. 2020: We will continue to work on how to rectify and Our dairies, here the manufacturing of cheese, take the major stake define what and how to measure. of the company’s impact on the environment and climate. Therefore, we will mainly focus on our work here. In addition, we must We will work to reduce the total energy consumption of the dairies also work on our impact on the environment and climate when we and thus reduce CO2 emissions. transport our goods. There are three factors that we will follow up on in the future as a measure of the impact of our activities on the We will work to reduce the total consumption of water. environment and climate: We will start up working with our milk suppliers n Energy consumption in Denmark to climate check the farms n CO2 emissions together. This will be done close to the n Water consumption model Arla uses for climate check and hopefully together with the Danish Dairy Board and other Danish Impact on Environment dairies in order to do a climate and climate check standard for the dairy industry in Denmark. 2018 Activities/results/hedging risks 2018 In 2018 we did not measure the impact. But in 2019 we will define and measure the three impact-areas below. n Energy consumption n CO2 emissions n Water consumption Per kg cheese Nørager Diary Nordex Käserei Nordex Romania CO2 0.08 kg 0.161 kg 0,052 kg* 2019 Activities/results/hedging risks 2019 Energy Electricity 0.28 kWh 0.412 kg 0.13 kWh We have measured the impact for our 3 dairies, the results are listed Energy Gas 0.034 m3 0.000 m3 0.040 m3 in the schedule below. We are still in the process of defining what and how to measure. Energy Oil 0.000 l 0.102 l 0.000 l Measurement methods and range may need to be reconsidered. Water 0.005 m3 0.015 m3 0.005 m3 We can to some extend compare the 3 dairies when we are aware of *) Approximate value that they use 3 different production methods. 16 17 RSPO Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) is an association that aims to promote the growth and use of sustainable palm oil. By being certified according to the RSPO Supply Chain Certification System, you support the establishment of sustainable and transparent production throughout the supply chain until the product reaches the consumer. 2018 Activities/results/hedging risks 2018 n During 2018, we shifted from mass balance purchased oil to the purchase of segregated palm oil. The dairy in Nørager was certified in 2018 2019 Activities/results/hedging risks 2019 n The dairy in Campulung was certified in 2019. n We will renew our RSPO certification every year. n We do not use palm oil in Nordex Käserei. 18 19 Energy-efficiency investments Projects and investment in our dairies to reduce energy consumption typically electricity and heat. 2018 Activities/results/hedging risks 2018 n Service agreements have been established to obtain optimum operation of cooling systems, boilers and compressors. n Investment in a wood chip burner has been initiated in Nørager for minimizing the use of fossil fuels. 2019 Activities/results/hedging risks 2019 n Service agreements will continue. n We have been waiting for the building permission and will start building the wood chip burner ultimo April 2020. We expect to put it in to use by the end of 2020. The wood chip burner is considered CO2 neutral, and will have a positive effect on our CO2 emissions. 20 21 Waste reduction Focus on reducing the total resources used to deliver our products. n Cleaning chemicals consumption per kg produced cheese: Nørager Dairy: 0.0147 kg Nordex Käserei: 0.0220 kg 2018 Activities/results/hedging risks 2018 Nordex Romania: 0.0087 kg n The thickness of a number of foils / packaging-options have been The cleaning chemicals consumption is higher in Nordex Käserei reduced. due to several cleanings between small productions, and due to Nano filtration on the whey. It is lowest in Nordex Romania because n Continuous optimization of CIP plants on our dairies has been they do not have UF as they do in Nørager Dairy. carried out to reduce consumption of cleaning chemicals and reduce energy consumption. n Waste per kg produced cheese: Nørager Dairy: 0.003 kg n At our dairy in Nørager, collection of product residues and raw Nordex Käserei: 0.012 kg material residues has been optimized. Nordex Romania: 0.005 kg n Investing in new lines and optimizing equipment is generally deMinimization of raw material/product waste: signed considering the minimization of raw material / product waste. As apparent in the values above Nørager dairy has the lowest amount of waste when comparing the 3 dairies. We consider that to be due to product residues and raw material residues 2019 Activities/results/hedging risks 2019 optimization. We have not been able to fully separate waste and reusable n We have not started to measure consumption and savings on fractions in Nordex Käserei which means that the amount of primary packaging, but the topic is articulated and are or will be waste can be less than the specified value. The production introduced to the involved parties. We continue to work on reducing method also affects the result. our secondary packaging. n In 2020 we will continue to work on reducing packaging material, Examples: cleaning chemicals and waste. We are still in the process of defining At Nørager dairy we have automated the palletizing and at the same what and how to measure. Measurement methods may need to be time we have gone from intermediate cardboard to FSC certified reconsidered. recycled paper. We expect Nørager Dairy to save up to 100 tonnes of paper per year on this basis. 22 23 Anti-corruption and bribery In NORDEX FOOD we do not tolerate corruption or bribery, regardless of whether it happens internally or externally with the companies we work with. n We clearly articulate to our partners that we do not tolerate corruption or bribery. n We do not take a political position, no matter where in the world we operate. n We tell employees (in job interviews and appraisals) and partners (at meetings) about our values and focus on orderliness. Supplier Management As a responsible company, it is not only important to take care of yourself. We must spread rings in the water and as far as possible influence our partners in the value chain to also follow and work with the 10 UN Global Compact principles for corporate social responsibility. The supplier side is both suppliers of traded goods as well as suppliers of all elements in the processing of the finished goods. 2018 Activities/results/hedging risks 2018 n 2019: Preparation of a short and precise note that NORDEX FOOD expects our partners, like us, to follow the UN Global Compact’s 10 principles for corporate social responsibility. 2019 Activities/results/hedging risks 2019 n The Supplier Code of Conduct is developed, and we will start by having it signed by the most relevant suppliers of traded goods and the suppliers of dairy raw material and primary packaging suppliers in 2020. 24 25 Food safety and quality Quality systems Activities/results/hedging risks 2019 2019 At NORDEX FOOD, the costumer is always in focus and quality wise We want to continue to prioritize our food safety and quality as well this means that our products are delivered in the right quality to the as give it more room in the CSR context. customers and eventually that the consumer can safely eat our products. n All suppliers of traded goods and raw materials are authorized to produce. Food safety and quality is basic for our company to remain. n Our Dairy standards are: n Both own dairies and suppliers of traded goods as a minimum Nørager Dairy: BRC gade AA and IFS higher level, VACCP, follow the legislation and demands from the food authorities in TACCP included. the respective countries. Nordex Käserei: IFS higher level, VACCP, TACCP included. Nordex Romania: FSSC 22000 n The quality of the products is according to costumer wishes and expectations. Our suppliers of traded goods shall also in the future be certified or approved of by a third Party. n Our own dairies will continue being GFSI certified to maintain their high product standard. Nordex Romania will add VACCP and TACCP to their quality program in 2020. n We wish to do things right the first time. Nordex Head office is planning to be BRC certified at the end of 2020. 2018 Activities/results/hedging risks 2018 n BRC standard at Nørager Dairy contains VACCP and TACCP, to prevent Food fraud. n We work in the direction of BRC standard with all our dairies. 26 27 Animal welfare We have added Animal welfare to our CSR as we recognize the importance of animal welfare, when being in the business of producing and trading dairy products. We expect all our suppliers of milk-based product to follow animal welfare legislation in their respective countries. Our animal welfare policy is based on the 5 freedoms from “World Organization for Animal Health”. n Free from hunger, malnutrition and thirst n Free from fear and distress n Free from heat stress or physical discomfort n Free from pain, injury and disease n Free to express normal patterns of behavior 2019 Activities/results/hedging risks 2019 n We will work to improve animal welfare at our contracted Danish dairy farms. n It is our intention to introduce “Hjertemælk” level 1 at all contracted farms supplying milk to Nørager Dairy. 28 29 CSR-report 2019 01.01. 2019 – 31.12.2019 NORDEX FOOD A/S Nordre Ringgade 2 DK-9330 Dronninglund www.nordexfood.com 30
