Innovating To Enable Sustainable Living For Everyone SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 CONTENTS 1 CEO’s Message 16 Customers 4 About Prudential 23 Responsible Investment About Prudential Singapore 26 Supporting our Communities Governance Structure Purpose and Values 31 Business Integrity Managing our Sustainability Efforts ESG Vision 34 People ESG Governance Approach ESG Framework 42 Technology Stakeholder Engagement Materiality Assessment 48 Environmental Performance ESG Outcomes Roadmap 53 Memberships and External Charters 14 Our Year at a Glance 54 Awards 15 About this Report Reporting Period Report Content and Topic Boundaries Board of Directors Approval External Assurance Contact CEO’S MESSAGE We recognise that we have a responsibility as long-term custodians committed to leaving our business – and the wider world – in a better state than when we arrived. PRUDENTIAL SINGAPORE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 1 CEO’S MESSAGE Businesses worldwide are embracing and people are supported, and vulnerable members This clear sense of purpose flows into embedding Environmental, Social and of our community are taken care of during this everything we do, from the products and Governance (ESG) into their operations, challenging time. services we create and the way we deliver in order to deliver progress towards the them to our customers, to how we plan our 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) This is our first locally published Sustainability investments and engage with our people and as part of the United Nations 2030 Agenda Report and we are taking a voluntary partners. It is therefore important that we for Sustainable Development. approach to report in line with the Global understand and manage our impacts on the Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards. We are environment, people and the economy. Governments, regulators and businesses taking this proactive step because we believe are taking prompt action to protect our companies need to go beyond financial and Ageing Population and environment, raise standards of business quantitative disclosures so that investors and Rising Healthcare Costs integrity and privacy, and address other other stakeholders can evaluate whether Singapore has the world’s highest life societal issues, but more can still be done. we have adequate processes in place to expectancy today. But while Singaporeans identify sustainable development risks and are living longer, many are living their older The new SDG Ambition has called on opportunities, and reflect them in our strategy. years in ill health due to chronic diseases and businesses to move into a decade of action disability. The government expects healthcare and we at Prudential Singapore support this Sustainability extends beyond taking care spending to increase by S$3 billion by 2020 as wholeheartedly. We want to raise our level of of people and communities. It is about the population ages. ambition to meet the needs of society and driving stewardship and being a responsible planet by fully integrating sustainability into organisation. Our business exists to help As payers of healthcare services, we need our business strategy and operations. We also people de-risk their lives and deal with their to work with different stakeholders, from understand the need for urgent, scalable and biggest financial concerns. At the same government to healthcare providers, to control multi-stakeholder action to rapidly accelerate time, we invest our customers’ savings in the costs so medical services remain affordable progress. real economy, helping to drive long-term, and accessible to those who need them. sustainable growth and deliver benefits to all We have always stood by our customers, our stakeholders and the communities in which As a company, we want to help people live well partners, people and the community during we operate. as they live longer. This means re-designing times of need. While working to publish this our products and services to meet the impact report, we committed S$1.5 million in March We recognise that we have a responsibility as of rising longevity, including working with 2020 to help SMEs and individuals affected long-term custodians committed to leaving our technology partners to encourage our people by the Covid-19 pandemic. We continued to business – and the wider world – in a better and customers to be more proactive about ensure that our customers’ health and financial state than when we arrived. their health. Our retirement product, PRUActive protection needs are met, our partners and Retirement, empowers our customers to decide when to start receiving their monthly income e.g. from age 50 till up to the age of 110. PRUDENTIAL SINGAPORE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 2 CEO’S MESSAGE Sustainable Finance Creating an Inclusive Workplace As we continue to make significant In the last decade, the practice of integrating Our people are our greatest asset. We believe investments in new technologies, we need to ESG criteria into financial services to bring about in creating an inclusive working environment be vigilant in managing new risks. We deal with sustainable development outcomes, including where we continually develop and protect our sensitive health data as part of our business mitigating and adapting to the adverse effects people, reward great performance, and provide and it is our duty to protect our customers’ of climate change, have become mainstream. a fair and equal environment for all employees personal information and uphold the highest In Singapore, the Monetary Authority of to succeed. We continue to re-imagine our standards of customer data privacy. Singapore (MAS) is taking active steps to people practices and invest in upskilling to help promote sustainable financing in the financial our employees be productive for longer. Ethical leadership becomes even more sector including its Green Finance Action Plan, critical in managing risks. That is why we are and we support this move. Last year, we removed the retirement age and embedding greater ethical and responsible raised the CPF contribution rate for workers behaviour across our organisation and We believe that acting as a responsible investor age 55 and above to be equal to younger ensuring a culture that holds the highest contributes to serving the long-term interests employees. In support of gender equality, standards of professional and ethical conduct, of our customers, investors, employees and our employee workforce is 60% female and at all times. We firmly believe that doing good other stakeholders. We take a long-term view 34% for our Core Leadership Team. We have and doing right by all our stakeholders is good of risks and opportunities across asset classes, a 60% female representation at our Board for business. a view that considers ESG factors alongside of Directors and this far exceeds the first-tier financial performance. target of 20% women on boards by 2020, Looking forward set by the Council of Board Diversity for listed This new decade offers us an opportunity As an asset owner and investor of participating companies in Singapore. to speed up on our commitment and take funds, we have an important role to play in concrete actions in our sustainability efforts. catalysing sustainable and green finance, Managing New Risks in the Fourth I hope you enjoy reading this report and I including integrating ESG factors into our Industrial Revolution welcome you to join us as we rapidly evolve investment decision-making. The Fourth Industrial Revolution represents to make this world a more sustainable one for a new chapter in human development generations to come. Last year, we invested S$25 million in the Asia enabled by extraordinary technology, which Sustainable Bond Fund, which aims to invest in will fundamentally change the way we live, a mix of green, social and sustainability bonds work and play. This progress is converging the and other debt securities which are aligned to physical, digital and biological worlds in ways Dennis Tan ESG principles. We are also committing at least that create both immense opportunities but CEO S$200m of our assets under management into also risks. Prudential Singapore ESG funds within the next two years. PRUDENTIAL SINGAPORE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 3 ABOUT PRUDENTIAL SINGAPORE Prudential Assurance Company Singapore (Pte) Limited (Prudential Singapore), is an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of UK-based Prudential plc, and is one of the top life insurance companies in Singapore. We have been serving the financial and protection needs of Singaporeans for over 85 years. Our focus is to bring well-rounded financial solutions to customers through our multi-channel distribution network, with product offerings in Protection, Savings and Investment. We are one of the market leaders in Protection, Savings and Investment-linked plans with S$43 billion funds under management as of 31 December 2019. We have an AAFinancial Strength Rating awarded by leading credit rating agency Standard & Poor’s. Please refer to our Governance structure in our 2019 Annual Report. 20 1 9 ANNUAL REPORT PRUDENTIAL SINGAPORE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 4 ABOUT PRUDENTIAL OUR PURPOSE AND VALUES INNOVATION means we boldly COLLABORATION means we work ACCOUNTABILITY means we fulfil our push frontiers as one promises Our purpose Innovating to help everyone live well and our five core values, Innovation, Collaboration, Accountability, Empowerment and Trust, serve as the compass for the actions and decisions we take as an EMPOWERMENT TRUST organisation in the service of our means we can make means we inspire customers, partners and community. a difference confidence PRUDENTIAL SINGAPORE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 5 ABOUT PRUDENTIAL MANAGING OUR OUR ESG OUR ESG SUSTAINABILITY VISION GOVERNANCE APPROACH EFFORTS As a major life insurer in Singapore, stewardship We innovate to In 2019, we formed an ESG Committee enable sustainable (ESGC), to govern ESG matters and is core to what we do. We recognise that to help living for everyone ensure its effective integration into our our customers look to the future with confidence, through the business operations. Chaired by the Chief we need to take a long-term view on a wide solutions we offer, Executive Officer (CEO) and co-chaired by the investments we the Head of Ethics, it assists the Board in range of issues that affect our business and the make and the lives providing direction and oversight of our communities in which we operate. we touch today, for ESG strategy, roadmap and sustainability future generations. reporting. OUR ESG STRATEGY The ESGC includes Leadership Team AND VISION representation from Strategy, Investment, Enterprise Risk Management, Human At Prudential Singapore, our business purpose is to help Resources, Finance and Corporate people de-risk their lives and deal with their biggest Affairs. It is responsible for reviewing financial concerns. At the same time, we invest our our ESG framework and targets, customers’ savings in the real economy, helping to drive including monitoring the veracity of our long-term, sustainable growth and deliver benefits to Sustainability Report information and all our stakeholders and the communities in which we tracking of our ESG outcomes. work and live. PRUDENTIAL SINGAPORE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 6 ABOUT PRUDENTIAL OUR ESG FRAMEWORK 7 1 2 3 WE HAVE CUSTOMERS RESPONSIBLE SUPPORTING OUR IDENTIFIED INVESTMENT COMMUNITIES Providing fair, transparent, inclusive Effectively integrating ESG considerations Active approach in tackling social and accessible products to best serve into our investment decisions and challenges and commitment to improve customers’ needs and to reduce their fiduciary duties, helping contribute to a lives and build communities. vulnerability. more sustainable economy. ESG TOPIC WHERE THESE IMPACTS OCCUR ESG TOPIC WHERE THESE IMPACTS OCCUR ESG TOPIC WHERE THESE IMPACTS OCCUR Fair Dealing Our practice of Responsible Our Responsible Helping the next Our financial literacy customer fair dealing Investment Investment approach is generation improve programme imparts skills impacts our product approach guided by our regional their financial among young children development, sales Responsible Investment literacy aged between seven and advisory services, Policy and has an and 12. ESG PRIORITY as well as customer impact on our asset AREAS communications. management business, Eastspring Investments. Supporting the aged Our community initiatives train and enable our Customer Privacy Our standards of volunteers to engage data protection, meaningfully with policies and guidelines vulnerable seniors. around customers’ personal data. Employee Our volunteer leave volunteerism policy supports the SDGs, Customer Customer satisfaction while our employee Satisfaction impacts our customer volunteerism impacts management decisions vulnerable individuals including improvements and families. in our products and services, customer service, and customer feedback channels. PRUDENTIAL SINGAPORE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 7 ABOUT PRUDENTIAL BUSINESS INTEGRITY 4 PEOPLE 5 TECHNOLOGY 6 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE 7 Ensuring we are a responsible and Providing an inclusive working Harnessing technology to upgrade our Identifying the risks and opportunities ethical business leader in the insurance environment, which continually develops digital capabilities to provide a more posed by climate change and the impact industry. talent, rewards great performance, seamless customer experience. of our business on the environment. protects people and values diversity. ESG TOPIC WHERE THESE IMPACTS OCCUR ESG TOPIC WHERE THESE IMPACTS OCCUR ESG TOPIC WHERE THESE IMPACTS OCCUR ESG TOPIC WHERE THESE IMPACTS OCCUR Corporate Our standards of Employment Full-time employees Innovating to serve Our use of, and Energy Lights and Governance, professional and ethical (including employee are accorded benefits customers better investment in, technology consumption air-conditioning Ethics and conduct in five key benefits and parental and parental leave. and digital tools will used in our offices. Anti-Corruption areas – financial crime, leave) impact the way we meet conflicts of interest, our customers’ evolving Waste Collecting and recycling information and dealing, Training and All employees are needs, implement management our paper, plastic and communication and Education entitled to learning operational efficiency, electronic waste. people – guide the way opportunities to and make informed, we do business with our upgrade their skills. data-driven decisions. Green Purchase of customers, distributors, procurement environmentally-friendly partners and the Promoting Committing to be a certified paper and community. innovation and Grand Sponsor of the cleaning products in FinTech Singapore Fintech Festival our offices. Procurement Minimising our for five years highlights Practices environmental impact our dedication to fostering through activities and a culture of innovation, processes, and maintaining collaboration and co-creation sustainable business among financial institutions, practices in our supply chain. FinTechs, MedTechs, HealthTechs, InsurTechs and regulators globally. PRUDENTIAL SINGAPORE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 8 ABOUT PRUDENTIAL STAKEHOLDER STAKEHOLDER GROUP MODE OF ENGAGEMENT FREQUENCY OF ENGAGEMENT ENGAGEMENT Regulatory reporting and notification Monthly, quarterly, annually or on a needs basis Our stakeholders are valuable to us because they are REGULATORS Annual Company visit Annually Handling queries from On a needs basis central to how we operate as a business. It is therefore regulators critical that we regularly engage with them and Inspection / Reviews by On a needs basis (but at regulators and follow-ups least annually) incorporate their perspectives and interests into our overall Participation in workgroups, On a needs basis ESG management. We identified our stakeholders as forums and dialogues Participation in MAS or On a needs basis regulators, investors, customers, employees, distributors, MAS-linked events civil society and suppliers, based on their influence on Surveys and questionnaires Ad-hoc meetings with PACS our operations. In preparing for this report, we did not Management and Board On a needs basis undertake any formal engagement sessions with them, (Meetings can be initiated by MAS or PACS) however, we held in-depth discussions and interviews with Incident reporting On a needs basis various internal stakeholders, on stakeholder expectations and how we might respond to their expectations. Participation in MAS Monthly Sustainable Insurance Committee Participation in Life Insurance Quarterly Association Investment SubINVESTORS Committee PRUDENTIAL SINGAPORE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 9 ABOUT PRUDENTIAL STAKEHOLDER GROUP MODE OF ENGAGEMENT FREQUENCY OF ENGAGEMENT STAKEHOLDER GROUP MODE OF ENGAGEMENT FREQUENCY OF ENGAGEMENT PRUaccess for customers to Always-On Dialogue sessions with At least bi-monthly access their policy information Leadership Team online in a secure environment PRUConnect Annual employee event Customer Service Centre Office hours: Mondays to Snap Townhalls Twice yearly Recreation activities Weekly Fridays, 9:00am to 5:45pm Community Investment Regularly, and during (excluding Public Holidays) EMPLOYEES programmes employee orientation CUSTOMERS Always-on Voice-of-Customer Always-On Organisation-wide On a needs-basis Touch-point communications: Emails, Satisfaction Programme Always-On Teams, Internal TV screens, PRU for you Customer Periodically or when updates Employee locker drops, Bulletin Community are required Boards Divisional meetings Monthly or on a needs-basis Email updates Periodically or when updates are required Letters sent by post Activated on a needs-basis Agency Leader townhalls Quarterly Various feedback channels e.g. Major conferences – Flying Start Twice yearly focus group discussions, surveys, and Final telephone interviews, Sprint Monthly one-on-one interviews Email updates Regularly PRUmessage Regularly SMS Regularly DISTRIBUTORS Regular WhatsApp group chats On a needs-basis (Agency) Product Working Groups Annually Incentive Trips: Agency Leaders Conference (PCA-led regional conference for top 30 Leaders) FastTrack, Pioneers’ Retreat, Quality Club Elite, Star Club, President’s Club PRUDENTIAL SINGAPORE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 10 ABOUT PRUDENTIAL STAKEHOLDER GROUP MODE OF ENGAGEMENT FREQUENCY OF ENGAGEMENT STAKEHOLDER GROUP MODE OF ENGAGEMENT FREQUENCY OF ENGAGEMENT Standard Chartered Bank: Review goals and conduct Monthly Steering committee meeting with Quarterly impact assessments with Leadership Team community partners Weekly Sales Meetings with Weekly Sales Managers and Head of CIVIL SOCIETY DISTRIBUTORS Bancassurance (Bancassurance and Flying Start Annually Circe of Champions (recognising Quarterly Meeting with service Half-yearly New Partners) top FSC’s and RM’s) providers to ensure that Product Meetings Monthly Governance Meetings Monthly activities carried out are aligned with the company’s United Overseas Bank: SUPPLIERS sustainability guidelines Start of the Year Annually Monthly meeting with UOB Monthly Leadership Team Product Team Monthly Bancassurance Sales Team Monthly Marketing Meeting Monthly UOB Prudential Steering Quarterly Committee Meeting Governance Meeting Quarterly Sales Convention Quarterly The Achievers Club Quarterly Community Investment Once/Twice a year or as and Programmes when there is an initiation from Partners Segment Huddles Weekly UOB New hires training Monthly New Partners: Regular meetings with all new Weekly partners via calls, face-to-face meetings or video conference, depending on partner’s preference PRUDENTIAL SINGAPORE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 11 ABOUT PRUDENTIAL MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT Customers We conducted a materiality assessment in 2019 to Supporting our identify key topics that have the highest importance Communities to our business, and where we will have a significant Importance of ESG areas to Stakeholders* Business Integrity impact on the economy, environment and the society. Of the seven ESG priority topics, we identified Responsible Investment Customers, Responsible Investment and Supporting our Communities as the most material to us. We have Technology also aligned our material topics to the UN SDGs. Our materiality assessment was done through an ESG People workshop with members of the Leadership Team as Environmental Performance well as senior members of key functions, where we drew assumptions about ESG topics that were material Significance of Prudential Singapore’s ESG impacts on the economy, environment and society to our stakeholder groups. The importance of ESG Figure 1: Materiality Matrix for Prudential Singapore areas to stakeholders were determined by workshop Emerging Priority participants who acted as proxies for the various * Prudential Singapore’s stakeholders comprise regulators, investors, customers, employees, distributors, civil society and suppliers. Medium Priority stakeholder groups. The matrix (Figure 1) represents High Priority our prioritisation of topics. PRUDENTIAL SINGAPORE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 12 ABOUT PRUDENTIAL ESG OUTCOMES CUSTOMERS RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT SUPPORTING OUR COMMUNITIES ROADMAP Importance to Prudential Singapore Our customers make up our As an asset owner with At Prudential Singapore, The targets and specific actions for our largest stakeholder group and approximately S$43 billion of our community investment this is where we can exercise the assets under management, approach is focused on issues Customers, Responsible Investment and greatest impact. Ensuring the we believe that acting as a that our customers, communities Supporting our Communities workstreams are wellbeing of our customers also responsible investor contributes and stakeholders care about, relates directly to our purpose to serving the long-term and where we can make a presented in our ESG Outcomes Roadmap. of Innovating to help everyone interests of our customers, positive and lasting social Each initiative is reviewed, approved and live well. investors, employees and other impact. Our strategic priorities lie stakeholders. in the areas of education, health enhanced on a regular basis under the and wellness. guidance of the ESGC. The Outcomes Outcomes Roadmap also tracks the resources required, activities, output, outcomes, timelines and Ensuring our products and Ensuring ESG considerations are Ensuring the Cha-Ching services are inclusive. incorporated into investment programme is scalable, owners for each activity. decisions. measurable and used to build stronger relationships with our stakeholders i.e. our employees, agency force and business partners. Ensuring our solutions prepare Demonstrating a commitment Developing a Health and customers to live longer and to ESG through Prudential Wellness (H&W) programme healthier through preventive Singapore’s investment strategy. to enhance wellbeing of healthcare and wellness vulnerable seniors and measures. young children from low-income families. PRUDENTIAL SINGAPORE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 13 OUR YEAR AT 1,230 Total Equity: A GLANCE S$1.4 Annual Premium Equivalent in 2019: S$901 million billion Total number of full-time and contract employees 59 life insurance, medical and savings plan products for individuals 4,500 and enterprises as at S 25 Invested First financial 31 Dec 2019 Raised a institution to raise total of CPF contribution primary school students >S$71,000 rate for employees above 55 in line with Engaged 1,900 benefited from in SHARE As One PRUVolunteers over million our removal of the our financial contribution retirement age 5,500 HOURS in the Asia Sustainable Bond Fund literacy programme Removed single-use Customer satisfaction ratings First in the Certified Platinum by the plastics in the office of at least market to raise 90% Building and Construction and decreased waste the medical Authority (BCA) generated by insurance 73% Singapore and Health or stronger consistently coverage age Promotion Board (HPB) observed of our Customer to 100 for for Healthier Workplaces Service Officers and employees of financial consultants corporate clients PRUDENTIAL SINGAPORE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 14 ABOUT THIS REPORT Our inaugural Sustainability Report is prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards: Core Option. We are a signatory to the UN Responsible business practices, coupled Global Compact, and this report also serves as our with innovation and collaboration, can Communication on Progress. Additionally, we also align drive positive societal change while benefiting bottom lines. As a Participant our report to the UN SDGs. Ms Esther Chang Executive Director of the UN Global Compact, Prudential Reporting Period External Assurance Global Compact This report has been externally assured Network Singapore Singapore has taken decisive corporate The disclosures in this report are for the year 2019 and cover our operations in Singapore by CSRWorks International, in accordance action to advance the SDGs, especially from 1 January 2019 to 31 December 2019. with the AA1000 Assurance Standard. The in encouraging lifelong learning assurance also covered adherence to the GRI Standards. For more information, please refer opportunities, promoting health and Report Content and Topic Boundaries well-being among its communities, and to the Assurance Statement. Our Sustainability Report presents the management approach, initiatives and reducing its carbon footprint. As the Contact future plans that support our ESG vision. For more information, please contact: local chapter of UN Global Compact, We developed the content and boundaries we commend Prudential Singapore’s of the report in alignment with the GRI Reporting Principles of Materiality, Stakeholder Ms Yeoh El Lynn, Head of Ethics efforts, and will continue to amplify its E: yeoh.el.lynn@prudential.com.sg Inclusiveness, Sustainability Context and sustainable initiatives. Completeness. Board of Directors Approval This report has been reviewed and approved by Prudential Singapore’s Board of Directors. PRUDENTIAL SINGAPORE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 15 CUSTOMERS PRUDENTIAL SINGAPORE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 16 CUSTOMERS Our Customers are at the Heart of proportion of people will need to manage Ensuring Fair Dealing Everything we do more than one chronic disease, also known Outcomes for Customers Singaporeans live longer than most other as “multi-morbidity”2. This will require shifting The principles of Fair Dealing are embedded nationalities and have one of the world’s the attention to growing medical costs. The across the breadth of our business from highest overall life expectancy, but many are Government expects healthcare spending product design and marketing and sales, unprepared and unsure of how to manage to increase by S$3 billion by 20203 as the to after-sales care. We are committed to their rising longevity1. Today, we serve nearly a population ages, so it is important that upholding them by: fifth of the country’s population, and ensuring insurance remains affordable to meet rising their wellbeing is important to us. This means healthcare costs. offering solutions that will make life better for everyone. In fact, this is also why we exist Our Commitment to Fair Dealing – to fulfil our purpose of Innovating to help At Prudential, we are committed to treating everyone live well. Making fair dealing Offering products and Providing our our customers fairly in respect of product a central principle in services that are appropriate customers with quality development, sales and advisory services our company culture for our customers’ needs, advice and suitable Our purpose fuels us to consistently provide as well as customer communications. Our awesome experiences for our customers by and how we serve and selling and marketing recommendations. customers have trusted us the last 89 years, our customers. them responsibly. ensuring customer satisfaction, and innovation and we safeguard this trust by continuing in the way we serve them. This includes to act responsibly and ethically with our providing fair, transparent and inclusive customers’ best interests in mind. products and solutions to best serve their needs, helping them better manage their MAS issued the Guidelines on Fair Dealing to risks and preparing them to live longer and promote fair dealing by financial institutions healthier lives. Being clear and timely in all Responding to when they conduct business with their our interactions with, and customers’ complaints customers. The Guidelines were embedded in communications to them, so in an independent, In the years to come, Singapore’s ageing the Financial Advisers Act in April 2009. population will accelerate, and a greater that they can make informed effective and prompt financial decisions. manner. 1 Ready for 100: Preparing for longevity in Singapore. Available at: https://readyfor100.economist.com/wp-content/uploads/2019/07/20180924-ECO035-Ready-for-100-Whitepaper-Spread.pdf 2 Healthy for 100? Healthy care in Singapore. Available at: https://readyfor100.economist.com/whitepaper-healthcare/. 3 https://www.mof.gov.sg/singapore-budget/curated-budget-reads/injecting-more-into-singapore-s-healthcare-as-we-age PRUDENTIAL SINGAPORE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 17 CUSTOMERS In 2018, we re-evaluated our Prudential’s Fair Dealing Charter: 12 Promises to Our Customers approach to Fair Dealing through multiple working sessions with stakeholders, which resulted in a 1. We promise to ensure that all employees 4. We promise to provide our financial new Fair Dealing Charter – a set of and financial consultants understand the consultants with regular in-depth promises we make to our customers importance of treating customers fairly training so they are equipped – along with a new approach to and their role in delivering our fair dealing to provide quality advice and quarterly measurement of Fair customer promises. appropriate recommendations. Dealing. In 2019, we introduced 12 promises Competent Corporate Culture 2. We promise to ensure that our 5. We promise to ensure that our to our customers. The Fair Dealing Representatives stakeholders and customers are aware of our financial consultants will employ fact Committee comprising our commitment to treating customers fairly. finding and needs analysis to make Leadership Team, including our certain that customers are offered CEO, Chief Risk Officer and Chief products that are appropriate for their Customer Officer, meets monthly to 3. We promise to ensure that every circumstances and risk appetite. review progress of actions taken to fulfill our promises. product is designed appropriately for the needs of the intended customer segment. 6. We promise that our remuneration structure ensures that financial consultants provide quality advice and appropriate product recommendations. Customer Segments PRUDENTIAL SINGAPORE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 18 CUSTOMERS All employees also undergo mandatory training on Fair Dealing and we held an employee activity to 7. We promise that our strengthen awareness on the topic communications will be clear, simple during the reporting year. and easy-to-understand. 8. We promise that our product Clear, Relevant information will be available to & Timely customers in English and Chinese. Information 9. We promise to provide customers with relevant and timely information about their policies. 10. We promise to ensure that our staff are equipped to address customer complaints in a timely, effective and independent manner. 11. We promise to promptly acknowledge customer complaints and keep customers Complaint informed via regular updates. Handling 12. We promise to fairly assess complaints, ensure we have the right policies and processes in place to address them and provide customers with the option to seek an alternative independent review. PRUDENTIAL SINGAPORE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 19 CUSTOMERS Customer Privacy Our corporate website also includes a Strengthening Customer Satisfaction and Customer Satisfaction We deal with sensitive health data as part of Privacy Notice that clearly states and sets out Customer Centricity We measure customer satisfaction through our business and it is our duty to protect our the information about processing customers’ Customer satisfaction is key for our customers the PRUvoice Voice-of-Customer Programme customers’ personal information and uphold personal information, what rights they are to have a productive and trusting relationship (PRUvoice), a series of surveys that track the highest standards of data protection, accorded, and how they can get in touch if with us. Delivering on our promise involves customer satisfaction and brand image as our customers’ trust and confidence are they want to know more. Our Data Protection making the right decisions in the interest perception, which started in 2018. We paramount to our business. Policy is periodically reviewed to ensure of our customers and implementing also carry out research and interviews with our data processing aligns with regulatory improvements on our products and services. customers and the general public to increase This includes restricting the access of requirements. To better understand our customers’ needs our understanding of their needs. employees to personal data, ensuring the and expectations, we continually seek their data is accurate and up-to-date, and putting To reinforce our commitment to customer feedback on our service delivery. in place security controls to protect the data data protection and privacy, and as part of our that is in transit and at rest. We also comply efforts to ensure that our people are familiar Results from the programme* with the Singapore Personal Data Protection with the fundamental knowledge of the PDPA, all employees are required to undergo regular Corporate Website Financial Consultant Act 2012 (PDPA) to ensure we safeguard our Usage Experience: Onboarding Experience: 66% data protection training. 97% customers’ personal data. We remain committed to complying with Number of cases received in FY2019 that relevant data protection regulations and concern breaches of customer privacy and protecting the rights of individuals, as well as losses of customer data: Customer Service Centre Contact Centre Service Interaction: Service Interaction: 97% regularly review processes and controls around the protection of personal data. We also have a Data Protection Officer who is supported There were no substantiated complaints of customer privacy breaches during the 89% by a team to act as a point of contact for all reporting year. Claims Submission Claims Decision internal and external matters relating to data Service Interaction: Service Interaction: 88% protection. Upholding a high standard of data 90% 0 protection for our customers is important to us. Non-compliance with relevant data protection Complaints regulations will result in adverse regulatory and reputational risk implications, as well as the PRUaccess SURRENDER Policy Surrender Usage Experience: Service Interaction: 81% 78% loss of customers’ trust and confidence in our business. * December 2019 results. We consider the top two ratings on a five-point rating scale as being ‘satisfactory’. Therefore, a satisfaction rating of 80% may be considered an ideal target to aim for. Customer satisfaction is just one of the many metrics in which we measure our customer experience. PRUDENTIAL SINGAPORE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 20 CUSTOMERS Survey questions are reviewed on a semiare managed and monitored by the Customer The programme is co-branded with LIMRA At the same time, SME customers get coverage annual basis and our Customer Insights team Management team. Response to customer (Life Insurance and Market Research quickly. PRUworks enables our financial works closely with senior management to feedback or complaints depends on the Association) – a leading international research consultants to achieve higher conversion rates achieve a robust PRUvoice programme. nature of the query. It could be via an email and professional development brand in the through quicker New Business inception for reply, a call, or a face-to-face meet up with financial service industry. To be awarded the simple packaged plans, where the turnaround Our front-liners have been tracking a the customer. PRU Service Mark, financial consultants must time has been reduced from five to two days. consistently strong performance across 2019 fulfil certain conditions, such as achieving – recording customer satisfaction ratings of The feedback we receive serves as an avenue a customer retention rate of 95% and We make regular enhancements to PRUworks at least 90% or stronger. This was consistently for us to reach out to affected customers demonstrate ethical sales conduct through based on feedback we receive to ensure the observed of our Customer Service Officers to allay their concerns and take appropriate zero substantiated complaints. In 2019, 384 platform remains relevant to users’ needs. at both our Contact and Service Centres, as actions. financial consultants were awarded the PRU well as our financial consultants. These strong Service Mark. Results derived from Pruworks satisfaction ratings were also firmly supported In 2019, we saw a 5% decrease in the number Total number of customers, including by the customer compliments and verbatim we of complaints received from the year before PRUworks employees and their dependents: >10,000 have gathered via PRUvoice across the year. and resolved more than 80% of complaints Findings from a survey we conducted in Notwithstanding this strong performance, within the average turnaround time of 30 2018 showed that those surveyed thought efforts at identifying further improvement business days4. insurance plans were too expensive for their opportunities with an aim of enhancing our company size and employee benefits were not customers’ service interactions are underway. All complaints are highlighted to the relevant a priority. departments for review and rectification Supporting Age-Friendly Workplaces with Usage experiences with our corporate where applicable. Suggestions for process Launched in June 2018, PRUworks is designed Ready for 100 Insurance website and PRUaccess platform have been improvements, if any, are also shared with the to offer small and medium-sized enterprises In September 2019, we were first in the market inconsistent across months – with customer relevant departments. (SMEs) a seamless digital, and cost-effective, to raise the medical insurance coverage age satisfaction fluctuating between 60% and experience for employee benefits purchase. for employees of our corporate customers, 80%. Deep-dives into customers’ verbatim PRU Service Mark It is a one-stop online portal giving business comprising SMEs and large companies, to feedback regarding their experiences with Being customer-centric means giving our owners, HR teams and employees an match rising longevity and aspirations to work these touch-points have been completed and customers the highest level of professionalism, integrated view of their insurance coverage for longer. Our customised group insurance we have identified improvements to be made. care and continuous engagement. The PRU and status of claims submissions. They also plans covering hospital and surgical, outpatient Service Mark is a regional recognition and enjoy convenient access to a range medical and dental expenses now provide Apart from PRUvoice, customers may also accreditation programme that recognises and of employee benefits, such as finding the protection for employees up to the age of 100. provide their feedback by writing in to a rewards Prudential’s financial consultants, who nearest doctor and other value-added centralised Customer Service mailbox or are committed to going above and beyond in wellness services. We also offer a range of customised wellness contacting our Customer Service hotline, which servicing their customers. solutions. Our corporate wellness programme includes activities that promote both physical and mental wellness, such as fitness and 4 The turnaround time taken to resolve complaints varies and ranges according to the classification of complaints. PRUDENTIAL SINGAPORE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 21 CUSTOMERS meditation classes, vaccinations, and health PRUPanel Connect brings about more Sustainable Healthcare: In 2020, the following enhancements will be screenings. With this programme, we hope to convenience to customers and many have Claims-Based Pricing implemented for claims-based pricing: (1) help our clients make holistic wellness a core benefited since the launch. It ensures that we To address the problem of rising medical costs lower premium level for treatments sought at part of their corporate culture. support our customers throughout the journey, and claims, we introduced the industry’s first the panel doctors, (2) lower premium level for starting from their first appointment to being claims-based pricing approach for private older customers aged 55 and above, which PRUPanel Connect discharged from the hospitals, and allows them hospitalisation plans for PRUextra Premier in helps them to stretch their premium dollars PRUPanel Connect is a hospital partnership to focus on recovery instead. 2017 and subsequently to PRUExtra Premier so that they can be covered for a longer time programme that started in November 2019. CoPay and PRUExtra Preferred CoPay. We (3) launch of a new and more affordable rider It offers customers of Prudential’s private Future Plans believe claims-based pricing will encourage that leverages on the PRUPanel Connect. This hospital Integrated Shield Plan rider, PRUExtra In 2020, we will enhance the online more prudent use of medical services and help plan also allows customers to benefit from the Premier, greater convenience when they visit appointment booking system on our corporate contain rising healthcare costs. CoPay cap of S$3,000 per annum, thereby Raffles Hospital and Mount Alvernia Hospital website to include more features, such as protecting them from exposure to high out-offor medical treatments. timing preferences, a security function, and Under claims-based pricing, customers start pocket expenses. choices to book appointments with specialists off at the Standard Level Premium, the lowest The programme provides multiple value-added who practice at multiple locations. We will premium of a customer’s age band. At each Future Plans services, which include cashless medical service also extend our offerings to a wider group of renewal, the premium level is determined by At the time of this report getting published, of up to S$30,0005. To enjoy this, they will policyholders who will benefit from our onsite any previous claims made during the review the demographic profile of people in Singapore have to seek treatment from participating concierge and value-added services. At the period. If customers stay healthy and do not with a monthly income of under S$3,000 was specialists6 under the PRUPanel Connect same time, we will increase the number of make any claims, they enjoy a PRUWell Reward not included in our customer mix. We have programme. hospitals and specialists under the PRUPanel of 20% premium savings on their Standard since commenced preliminary research on Connect programme. Level Premium at the next policy renewal. various underserved segments in Singapore A PRUPanel Connect concierge team will be where we could potentially create positive on-site at both hospitals to assist Prudential’s The PRUWell Reward was enhanced from 10% impact. Using data gathered, we will be able Feedback Mechanisms to 20% in Dec 2017, together with a disabilitycustomers on PRUShield-related enquiries from Since the programme was only launched in to re-design existing, or develop new, products Monday to Friday. As part of the value-added waiver feature introduced at the same time. and services to serve more communities, November 2019, no customer feedback has From 2017 to 2019, more than 80% of our services provided, they will offer complimentary been received but we continue to track data helping them plan better for their financial and hospital parking coupons or taxi vouchers to customers were claims-free and benefited from healthcare needs. progressively. However, customers can the PRUWell reward. policyholders who are admitted for inpatient reach the PRUPanel Connect team at treatment or day surgery. PruPanel.connect@prudential.com.sg should they encounter issues or have queries. 5 Eligibility for cashless service without pre-authorisation is only applicable to PRUextra Premier policies which are accepted on standard terms and have been in-forced for at least 12 months from the date of inception or date of reinstatement, whichever is later. The lives assured must also be Singaporeans or Singapore Permanent Residents. 6 Participating specialists include doctors from Raffles Hospital and on-campus doctors from Mount Alvernia Hospital who have opted in for the PRUPanel Connect programme. Please refer to the PRUPanel Connect website for the list of specialists https://www.prudential.com.sg/ppc PRUDENTIAL SINGAPORE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 22 RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT PRUDENTIAL SINGAPORE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 23 RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT The issue of stewardship and responsible Responsible Investment Working Group investment is growing in importance in the We established a Responsible Investment Industry Push region, as seen in the 17% increase in APAC Working Group (RI WG) in 2019 to spearhead for ESG Investments UN Principles for Responsible Investment (UN the responsible investment approach in MAS has signalled its commitment PRI) signatories in 20197. We believe that Prudential Singapore. The RI WG is chaired to promote sustainable practices by acting as a responsible investor contributes by the Head of Investment Strategy and encouraging financial institutions to serving the long-term interest of our members include representatives from to adopt ESG best practices and customers, investors, employees and other Investment Solutions, Fund Selection, encourage the development of the stakeholders. We take a long-term view of risks Investment Risk, Financial Risk and Ethics, green bond market. As of June 2019, and opportunities across asset classes, a view as well as the Chief Investment Officer of S$6 billion worth of green bonds have that considers ESG factors alongside financial Prudential Singapore. been issued in Singapore. In the same performance. year, MAS announced the launch of The RI WG is guided by the regional a US$2 billion (S$2.7 billion) Green All of our mandated assets are invested Responsible Investment Policy and targets are Investments Programme to promote through fund managers who are UN PRI laid out in our ESG Outcomes Roadmap. The environmentally sustainable projects signatories, including Eastspring Investments group meets once every two months to discuss to mitigate climate change risks in (ESI). ESI is Prudential’s asset management industry and regulatory developments around Singapore and the region. business with approximately US$241 billion ESG in the area of investments. The group is (S$338 billion) assets under management as also responsible for setting RI goals that drive S$200 at 11 March 2020. A global asset manager ESG integration in our investment decisions with Asia at its core, ESI has built a strong and implementing initiatives that support presence in 11 key Asian markets, including these goals as part of our broader Responsible Singapore, with distribution offices in North Investment ambition. America and Europe. They are also a member of the Asian Investor Group on Climate Future Plans Change and Climate Bonds Initiative. million We recognise our responsibility to our stakeholders to effectively integrate ESG considerations into investment decisions We are committing at least S$200 million of our total assets under management in and fiduciary duties. For our Responsible ESG related products by 2021. We have Investment strategy to be meaningful, we so far invested S$25 million in the Asia have identified several initiatives in our Sustainable Bond Fund in 2019. ESG Outcomes Roadmap to further this area of focus as we continue the journey of responsible investing. 7 UN PRI Annual Report 2019 PRUDENTIAL SINGAPORE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 24 RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT Grow our ESG Investment Portfolio insurance guidelines. These guidelines are We have invested S$25 million in the Asia expected to be finalised later in 2020. To better Sustainable Bond Fund, which covers a understand and incorporate material ESG risks range of green, social and sustainability and opportunities into our decision-making bonds and other debt securities which are processes, we also engage closely with ESG aligned to ESG principles. In 2020, we will thought leaders such as MSCI, and participate scale our investments and target to invest in the Asia Sustainable Finance Initiative. at least S$200 million of our assets under Responsible Investment Policy management in ESG product offerings. Our regional Responsible Investment Policy guides our approach in seeking opportunities Deepen ESG Integration in our through a diversified portfolio which considers Investment Decisions ESG issues in the investment process. Building on our regional Responsible We consider ESG factors in our investment Investment Policy, we aim to develop an activities with reference to our Group’s four ESG screening approach and establish an Core Values of: ESG measurement methodology based on i iii existing standards in 2020. In 2020, we are also looking at launching products guided by ESG principles, to illustrate our commitment to Prudence We exercise judgement Integrity – We take account of Responsible Investment. and manage risk by ensuring that globally accepted standards of the financial and non-financial responsible business practice in our Support the Development of Sustainable implications of relevant ESG issues are investment decisions. Finance in the Industry identified and taken into account in We are highly supportive of the government’s our investment activities. efforts to grow the sustainable finance sector in Singapore and are an active industry contributor, working closely with the regulator to advance this aim. In 2019, Prudential ii iv Singapore joined the Sustainable Insurance Security – We act as a responsible Initiative – We believe that a healthy Taskforce, led by MAS together with the long-term owner and steward of our environment, a prosperous society and Life Insurance Association (LIA) Singapore, investments. strong communities are in the longGeneral Insurance Association (GIA) and term interest of our customers and consider investments that contribute to Singapore Reinsurers’ Association (SRA) these areas. to drive the development of sustainable PRUDENTIAL SINGAPORE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 25 SUPPORTING OUR COMMUNITIES PRUDENTIAL SINGAPORE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 26 SUPPORTING OUR COMMUNITIES Our community investment approach Our Focus We conduct a yearly impact assessment to is focused on issues that our customers, Our CI strategic priorities lie in the areas of review the effectiveness of Cha-Ching. From communities and stakeholders care about, Forming Partnerships – education, health and wellness. We want our 2019 study8, we found that: We work with 88% and where we can make a positive and lasting to help everyone achieve good health and an ecosystem of wellbeing. Specifically, we invest to enhance social impact. Our goal is to build strong community partners for foundations for an inclusive society, working the quality of early childhood care and greater impact with the government and our community development, as well as support our seniors to partners. age in place and in tackling loneliness. of students agreed that We conduct a yearly progress review with our what they learnt in Chacommunity partners to evaluate impact and Through our bursary and financial literacy Ching is important in Our Community Investment (CI) team real life. relevance of our CI programmes. We present programmes, we aim to inculcate good money oversees all community engagement activities management habits among young children these findings to the CI Steering Committee as 82% of Prudential Singapore, collaborating 79% part of our governance process. and support education for youths in need. with Prudence Foundation, our community from investment arm of Prudential plc in Asia Helping the Next Generation Build in 2018 and Africa, to address the needs of our Financial Literacy communities. Co-creating Solutions – of students agreed We work with the Financial literacy is a critical skill that should be that the Cha-Ching community to co-create introduced at a young age. We do this through curriculum made them innovative solutions that Cha-Ching, our financial literacy programme, realise that when address societal needs which was developed by Prudence Foundation it comes to money, in 2011. Cha-Ching is broadcasted on Cartoon considering the four Network and reaches 34 million children every options (Earn, Spend, We place importance in gathering feedback Save and Donate) day across Asia. is important. and we conduct reviews with our partners in a transparent manner on a frequent basis. In addition, the Cha-Ching curriculum, 82% created in 2016 and aligned to the OECD Core Competencies Framework on Financial Promoting Literacy for Youth, has been endorsed by 80% Volunteerism – education authorities in seven locations. The We deliver memorable of students agreed the from curriculum is designed to help young children Cha-Ching curriculum experiences for in 2018 our volunteers and between ages seven and 12 learn fundamental taught them how to community partners money management concepts of Earn, Save, manage their money. Spend and Donate. In 2019, we trained 232 We build a strong culture of volunteerism PRUVolunteers and more than 4,500 primary school students in Singapore have experienced among our employees and financial the curriculum. We aim to teach one million 8 The survey was conducted between Jan and Oct 2019. consultants by providing them with different We received 1,303 responses from students nine to 12 children in schools across Asia by 2021. opportunities to contribute to the community. years old across 11 primary schools. PRUDENTIAL SINGAPORE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 27 SUPPORTING OUR COMMUNITIES Apart from this, we conduct a preand postSupporting the Aged Cha-Ching survey during each session to measure the effectiveness of the curriculum. On average, our participants recorded a positive change in their understanding of key money management concepts9. The Community Investment team of Prudential Singapore first PRE-SESSION POST-SESSION approached Tsao Foundation for possible collaboration back in May 2018. Along the way, we are delighted to hear from the team that % of students who understand many of their PRUVolunteers, who have participated in the trainings that there is more to just spending 67% 84% and activities with our Foundation, have expressed interest in having money more volunteer opportunities with our elders. We are both encouraged Dr Mary Ann Tsao to continue exploring the possibility of a more sustained engagement Chairman % of students who Tsao Foundation can differentiate needs and wants 47% 72% for both staff and our elders as we extend the programme with Prudential for another two years. % of students who understand that Right from the start, the collaboration has been a concerted effort donations can be through giving 47% 66% not just by Prudential and the Foundation, but by PRUVolunteers and time, money and items our elders as well. It has been a multi-pronged programme that looks into capacity-building focused on age sensitisation trainings, changing mind sets as well as senior engagements to promote intergenerational bonding. The management teams from Prudential and the Tsao Foundation also held a few sessions to discuss how we can better reap the dividends of longevity. These discussions have been constructive and valuable for our teams, especially for our advocacy and mission. 9 The survey was conducted between Jan and Oct 2019. We received 1,303 responses from students nine to 12 years old across 11 primary schools. PRUDENTIAL SINGAPORE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 28 SUPPORTING OUR COMMUNITIES challenges that a caregiver faces. Following the choose to take on corporate roles in Voluntary training, our PRUCaregivers took part in various Welfare Organisations (VWO) for a year, while care-relief volunteering opportunities that were remaining on our payroll. Since 2018, we have co-organised with community partners such as invested S$313,000 as part of our employee AMKFSC Community Services Ltd, reaching out secondments to Autism Association, Aidha, to more than 300 beneficiaries. the Singapore Red Cross and the School of Gumption. Creating a #DOGood Culture Sustainability is closely linked to social We see this as an innovative way for us to integrity and purpose. It is also credited with give back to our community. Often, non-profit engaging and attracting talent, particularly organisations and social service organisations millennials who increasingly want to work struggle with manpower resources, and this is for companies that do good. We support this one way that large organisations like ours can with our Community Investment policies that help meet this need. encourage our employees to contribute back to the community. PRUImpact Week 2019 PRUImpact Week is a week-long event where Our Volunteer Leave Policy our employees, distributors, government We partner the Tsao Foundation to train financial consultants and customers. The basic All employees are entitled to five days of agencies and community partners come employees so that they understand ageism caregiving skills taught during these sessions volunteer leave to pursue any of the 17 UN together to learn, give, and support causes and can engage with vulnerable seniors more include: Sustainable Development Goals. In 2018, we across the themes of education, health and meaningfully. adjusted the policy to allow employees to carry environment. We held discussions around 1. Preventive measures and emergency unutilised volunteer leave to the following year, productive ageing and long-term care, social In 2019, we expanded on our partnership with handling at home with a maximum cap of 10 days per year. For inequality and sustainable finance. We also cothe Foundation and raised another S$31,800 more details, please refer to the People section. organised a talk on impact measurement with for PRUCaregivers, a programme that equips 2. Mobility aid handling Asian Venture Philanthropy Network (AVPN) volunteers with basic caregiving skills so they Our Career Switch Programme and a workshop with Zero Waste SG, where can be more effective in our senior befriending 3. Caregiver resources and self-care tips Employees who want to explore opportunities employees got creative with upcycling t-shirts activities. in the social service sector can tap on our into tote bags. The training provided volunteers with the industry-first Career Switch Programme. Through this partnership, we conducted 10 necessary skills to handle mobility aids as Through the programme, employees can training sessions for more than 100 employees, well as a better understanding of the daily PRUDENTIAL SINGAPORE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 29 SUPPORTING OUR COMMUNITIES Supporting the SHARE As One programme distribute hampers to low-income families Apart from volunteering time and skills, our and individuals. In 2019, we collaborated with employees have the option of contributing the Early Childhood Development Agency financially to organisations in need through (ECDA) to prepare customised hampers for the SHARE programme, a Community Chest 500 children from low-income families under AVPN is excited to be partnering initiative which we have supported since 2009. ECDA’s KidSTART programme. Nearly 400 with Prudential for two years in a row, For every dollar an employee contributes, the Government matches new or increased employees, financial consultants and their reflecting their commitment to be loved ones contributed more than 1,110 hours donations dollar-for-dollar, which we further to pack 3,278 hampers for the community. part of a community that mobilises match as well. capital towards impact. Prudential has Future Plans demonstrated their collaborative and Employees’ contribution grew by 75% to This year, we are shaping our initiatives to more than S$35,000 in 2019. With our address an ageing population, focusing on open-minded spirit through the social dollar-for-dollar matching, we brought the helping the community live well for longer investing convenings we had driven Naina Subberwal Batra total contribution to S$70,000 and this was through better health, by providing access to together, that gather diverse funders and Chairperson & CEO channelled to Lions Befrienders and Lakeside education and imparting financial prudence to AVPN Family Services. resource providers to share knowledge young children. around best practices and scale the Guiding our focus areas is our Ready for 100 impact of their work. I look forward to research, which examines the opportunities engaging more deeply with Prudential to and challenges that come with increasing life expectancy in Singapore. identify holistic solutions that address complex challenges facing Asia today. We will continue to work with our community partners for greater impact, and they include the Tsao Foundation, AMKFSC Community Services Ltd and ECDA. Lending Hands to the Boys’ Brigade Share-A-Gift project As part of the annual Boys’ Brigade Share-aGift project, our volunteers gather to pack and PRUDENTIAL SINGAPORE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 30 BUSINESS INTEGRITY PRUDENTIAL SINGAPORE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 31 BUSINESS INTEGRITY “Speak Corporate Governance workplace. All employees are also bound by our We communicate and train, where relevant, Refer to our 2019 Annual Report Group Anti-Bribery and Corruption (ABC) Policy our anti-corruption policies and procedures to and Regional Anti-Bribery and Corruption all governance body members. All employees Out” Ethics Standards (RABCS). This is to ensure an are also required to complete mandatory #DORight: Our Commitment to effective level of anti-bribery and corruption training on financial crime topics (i.e. antiEthics and Integrity is Deeply Embedded compliance to meet regulatory and legal bribery & corruption, anti-money laundering & in our Values obligations. sanctions and fraud prevention). Trust and integrity are critical to the success of our business. As we Innovate to help everyone All key roles and responsibilities are outlined Speak Out live well, we are committed to doing the right for Group Board, Group CEO, local CEOs, Speak Out is our confidential reporting facility thing for our customers, people, distributors, local Line Manager, local Anti-Bribery and through which employees can ask questions partners and the community. At Prudential, Corruption Officers (ABCO) and all employees. and raise concerns about ethics, compliance operating our business in the most responsible The same is outlined for Group Regulatory or a breach of regulation, an illegal act or a and sustainable way means we need Director, Group Risk Committee, Group Audit dangerous activity that they have become to hold ourselves to the highest standards Committee, Group Compliance, Group Security, aware of through work. of professional and ethical conduct. local Risk and Audit Committees and Group Our Code of Ethics applies to our Board of Wide Internal Audit. We also have one locally If employees believe their colleagues are not Directors and all employees at every level of appointed Anti-Bribery and Corruption Officer. meeting the standards set out in our Code of our organisation. Business Conduct, Code of Ethics, and other We conduct an annual company-wide corporate policies, they are encouraged to use Anti-Corruption ABC Risk Assessment, and quarterly metrics our Speak Out facility. Employees can also raise Our Code of Business Conduct highlights are reported to the local Risk and Audit an issue or concern via our #DORight reporting five key standards – financial crime, Committees. There were zero instances of channel and #DORight Hotline. conflicts of interest, information & dealing, corruption in 2019. All operations have communication, and people – that serve as also been assessed and there have been a compass for our employees’ conduct in the no risks related to corruption over the same reporting period. PRUDENTIAL SINGAPORE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 32 BUSINESS INTEGRITY Procurement Practices understand our approach to Sustainability. encouraged to report to the appropriate Our Enterprise Supply Chain function plays Additionally, all major suppliers’ approach to channels listed in the Code. a central and critical role in our business. It ESG issues will be checked using the Supplier ensures that environmental impact is kept to ESG Guidelines Sheet, which highlights any Green Procurement a minimum in all our activities and processes, new ESG initiatives undertaken by each To encourage the use of recycled and and sustainability practices in our value chain supplier. environmentally preferred products in order are maintained. to minimise environmental impacts, Our Supplier Code of Conduct we developed a Green Procurement Policy Under a unified procurement framework, We are committed to conducting business with in 2019. we have segmented our total base of high standards and do not tolerate any form of approximately 1,180 suppliers. As of December bribery or corruption, including embezzlement, Vendor Due Diligence 2019, we engaged 1,038 local suppliers, with a money laundering, kickbacks, facilitation To ensure compliance to regulatory total spending of S$129 million. payments, extortion, fraud or nepotism. requirements and country regulations, we require all suppliers to be screened in We endeavour to source for suppliers locally, To manage the risks in our dealings with accordance to our Anti-Bribery and Corruption on the condition that goods and services suppliers, the Procurement Policy and Policy, and Anti-Money Laundering Policy provided meet our business requirements and standards in the Supplier Code of Conduct before they can be onboarded as a supplier. quality standards in an economically viable provide the guidelines that all suppliers need For higher risk suppliers, further due diligence manner. During the reporting period, goods to comply with. The purpose of the Supplier is conducted to ensure counter-party risks and services based in Singapore made up 47% Code of Conduct is to set out the minimum are managed. The sourcing process is of our total spending. standard of behaviour and practice we expect guided by our Procurement Policy to ensure of our suppliers, in addition to the provisions integrity in the process. To drive the ESG We are developing a Supplier Corporate Social of any commercial terms agreed between us agenda, Enterprise Supply Chain and the ESG Responsibility (CSR) Guideline which will be and the supplier. If any employee of a supplier Committee will partner and develop an ESG ready by Q3 2020 to ensure our suppliers has an actual or potential concern, they are assessment framework for suppliers. PRUDENTIAL SINGAPORE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 33 PEOPLE PRUDENTIAL SINGAPORE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 34 PEOPLE Our Employees Prudential Singapore operates solely in Singapore as an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of UK-based Prudential plc, with a total of 1,230 employees. Total number of employees by Total number of employees by Total number of employees by Employment employment contract (permanent and employment contract (permanent and employment type (full-time and partWhy our employees are important temporary), by gender. temporary) in Singapore. time), by gender. Our people are our greatest asset and we pride ourselves in being an attractive # of Permanent Employees # of Permanent Employees in Singapore # of Full-time Employees 705 470 1,175 735 494 employer to those who are bold in creating something new. We believe in creating a safe and inclusive working environment where we Female Male Female Male continually develop our people, and reward great performance. # of Temporary Employees # of Temporary Employees in Singapore # of Part-time Employees 31 Female 24 Male 55 1 Female 0 Male Some areas with a greater proportion of external • All (applies to any division across the organisation): as of 31 Dec 2019. Assumptions made include the workers are: Consultancies from time-to-time to provide external following: • Distribution: Sales via external agencies (financial and neutral expertise. • “Organisation” refers to Prudential Assurance consultants). Company Singapore (PACS) only. • Information Technology: Vendors are considered as There are no significant variations in the numbers • Excludes International Business Financial Consultants. an option where relevant. reported in Disclosures 102-8-a, 102-8-b, and 102-8-c. • Temporary category includes Contract employees but The data is extracted and compiled from Workday HRIS, excludes transient temporary & interns. PRUDENTIAL SINGAPORE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 35 PEOPLE In line with our purpose of Innovating to help everyone live well, we aim to become a wellness Creating a Corporate Wellness Culture company by 2021. This aspiration starts with our people. We have adopted the Wheel of Wellness framework (see Figure 2) where we approach our employees’ wellbeing holistically, covering six key areas physical, social, financial, emotional, intellectual and environmental wellness. Figure 2 Wheel of Wellness I believe in leading a holistic lifestyle, spending PHYSICAL time outside of work on physical activities and volunteering with the community. I am really happy that Prudential supports both of my Vector Zhong interests, for example, I carve out an hour of my Software Engineer ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL time each day to take part in activities like Muay Prudential Singapore Thai or yoga organised by the Staff Recreation Committee. We also have a strong culture of employee volunteerism. Together with other PRUVolunteers, we rebuilt villages in Lombok after the earthquake, taught children in Singapore how to code and also interacted with seniors from AMKFSC Community Services Ltd. WELLNESS The initiatives that Prudential has organised has helped me feel more engaged at the workplace as I get to meet other colleagues in different settings and forge friendships with them. We also feel appreciated knowing that the company cares for our physical, social and emotional wellness, which goes a long way INTELLECTUAL FINANCIAL in making Prudential an employer of choice. EMOTIONAL PRUDENTIAL SINGAPORE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 36 PEOPLE We believe volunteering and the act of Intellectual Wellness Environmental Wellness giving contribute to better social wellbeing. Continuous learning is important for our As an employer, we have a responsibility to Employees who are passionate about employees and with that as a priority, we equip provide a green and healthy workplace for contributing to society can explore our our future workforce with the right Knowledge, our employees. Prudential’s WorkPLAYce Career Switch Programme. Skills, and Abilities (KSAs) so that they environment was designed to promote a work remain relevant in an ever-changing business culture where everyone has the autonomy Financial Wellness environment. In July 2019, we launched a new to decide on how, when and where their In addition to financial talks, we offer financial learning platform Workday Learning, enabling work gets done. We have transitioned from schemes such as PRUshareplus where eligible them to take charge of their learning journey a workplace that consumed disposables to employees can purchase Prudential’s shares and pursue their career aspirations. one that is plastics and disposables free. each month via a payroll deduction. For every Employees are given re-useable lunchboxes two shares purchased, we match them with We were the first insurer to sign a and cups, while our pantries and in-house café Physical and Social Wellness one share for free. Additionally, the Staff Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) stock re-useable glasses and mugs. Our Staff Recreation Committee (SRC) Purchase scheme allows eligible employees with SkillsFuture to tap on the national organises complimentary fitness activities to receive a rebate when they purchase movement to help provide employees with ranging from low impact exercises such as relevant products. These supplementary the opportunity to drive career ownership, yoga to high-intensity activities such as financial tools are designed to complement continuous learning and professional Muay Thai. The daily activities are aimed at the total compensation package and enhance development through the SkillsFuture Advice encouraging employees to engage in the the overall financial wellness of employees. (SFA) and SkillsFuture Digital Workforce Health Promotion Board’s recommended Approximately 32% of employees have signed workshops. More than 1,000 employees have 150 minutes of moderate-intensity physical up for the PRUshareplus scheme so far. since attended the SFA workshops to better activity each week. The activities also facilitate understand how they can tap on their S$500 interactions among employees from different Emotional Wellness credits and use other government subsidies to divisions and bring together like-minded To help employees cope with difficult or attend a myriad of courses. individuals. As of end 2019, a total of challenging situations better emotionally, 117610 employees participated in 309 hours we have a third-party Employee Assistance We also collaborated with Ngee Ann of SRC activities. Programme (EAP) helpline. Details of the Polytechnic and launched the foundational EAP helpline are published on the company’s programme, AI in Finance, to over 200 Our café and pantries serve healthy food intranet which is readily accessible to all employees. It provided an overview and items because we understand that proper employees. equipped them with the knowledge of how AI nutrition will positively fuel our employees’ is transforming finance. body and mind. 10 All employees are eligible for SRC activities. Number refers to total participants, not unique participants. PRUDENTIAL SINGAPORE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 37 PEOPLE Maintaining a Successful Corporate Wellness Culture In 2019, Prudential was ranked the ninth We assess the effectiveness of our corporate wellness strategy through an employee satisfaction score in our Values survey. The survey is based on the Barrett’s Model (see Figure 3) which measures the organisational most attractive employer to work for after an health, and helps us determine the level of value alignment and engagement within our organisation. independent study of over 300 organisations Figure 3 – Barrett’s Model adopted by Prudential in Singapore. This shows marked progress from 42nd (2017) and 11th (2018) place and SEVEN LEVELS OF ORGANISATIONAL validates our position as an employer that CONSCIOUSNESS POSITIVE FOCUS/EXCESSIVE FOCUS reinforces our employee promise to Create Something New. Service to Humanity and the Planet SERVICES 7 Social Responsibility, Future Generations, LongTerm Perspective, Ethics, Compassion, Humility. MAKING A Strategic Alliances and Partnerships INNOVATING 6 TO HELP Environmental Awareness, Community Involvement, DIFFERENCE Employee Fulfilment, Coaching/Mentoring. INTERNAL 5 Building Internal Community OUR PEOPLE LIVE WELL Shared Vision and Values, Commitment, Integrity, COHESION Trust, Passion, Creativity, Openness, Transparency. Continuous Renewal and Learning TRANSFORMATION 4 Accountability, Adaptability, Empowerment, In line with our Teamwork, Goals Orientation, Personal Growth. purpose, we are also High Performance constantly innovating SELF-ESTEEM 3 Systems, Processes, Quality, Best Practices, Pride in Performance, Bureaucracy, Complacency. for our people – Harmonious Relationships breaking boundaries RELATIONSHIP 2 Loyalty, Open Communication, Customer Satisfaction, Friendship, Manipulation, Blame. and introducing industry-first initiatives. Financial Stability SURVIVAL 1 Shareholder Value, Organisational Growth, Employee Health, Safety, Control, Corruption, Greed. PRUDENTIAL SINGAPORE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 38 PEOPLE REMOVAL OF RETIREMENT AGE FLEXI-WORK We were the first financial institution in Singapore to scrap the retirement ARRANGEMENT age so that our people are empowered to have extended careers and decide We adopt a flexi-work arrangement when they want to retire. This will enable our employees to fulfil their personal which allows employees to work and financial aspirations as they live for longer. On the back of this, we raised I was heartened when I found out Prudential remotely, giving them the flexibility our Central Provident Fund (CPF) contribution rate for workers above the age scrapped the retirement age because now, I can to balance their family-work of 55 to match that of their younger colleagues. The opt-in scheme will see continue to work for as long as I am healthy commitments. This policy has won the company raising its contribution to 17% if the employee chooses to raise praises from employees as they now their individual CPF contribution rates to 20%. and able to. I love my job and enjoy serving have greater autonomy over how to customers. Apart from that, I am also able to accomplish their tasks. share my experience and knowledge with younger colleagues. In turn, they provide fresh perspectives, WELLNESS LEAVE and this becomes a learning journey for all of us. Additionally, we took a step further and extended mandatory block leave to all employees and classified Prudential has also gone a step further and this as Wellness Leave. Mandatory raised the CPF contribution rate for employees block leave typically only applies to employees within specific functions over 55 and I am more than happy to raise my in the financial services industry, but individual contribution as well. The additional for us, all employees are encouraged savings would help to finance my retirement to take two blocks of five consecutive days of Wellness Leave annually. years and potential healthcare expenses. More importantly, I do not have to depend on my HONOUR SICK LEAVE children for financial support. I am proud and Meanwhile, we also introduced happy to be working for an inclusive company and honour sick leave, allowing we have come a long way! employees the flexibility to apply for outpatient sick leave without the need to submit documentary Sue Li, 64 proof. This has led to a reduction in Customer Service Officer group-wide medical expenses, and Prudential Singapore the savings are channelled to other preventive initiatives. PRUDENTIAL SINGAPORE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 39 PEOPLE Employee Benefits Percentage of Benefits which are standard for full-time employees of the organisation but are not provided Total number of employees who employees who returned to work in to temporary or part-time employees, by significant locations of operation. These include, as a Total number of Total number of returned to work in the the reporting period minimum: employees entitled employees who took reporting period after after parental leave GENDER to parental leave parental leave parental leave ended ended by gender (JAN DEC 2019) Group Term Life (Death Employees with more than 15 years Male 248 21 21 100% & Total Permanent Life Retirement of service who retire Female 336 37 2211 59% Disability); Group Crisis Insurance provision from the Company will Cover Extra (37 Critical Illnesses) receive S$3,000 worth of vouchers Parental Leave Our policies encourage continuous learning Group Hospitalisation & Out of all the people who took to ensure employees are updated on changes Surgical / Group Major parental leave, 74% and trends in the insurance industry, which Medical; Group Clinical General PRUshareplus; LongStock form a critical part of their career development. Healthcare Practitioner; Group Specialist; term Incentive Plan ownership We also believe driving capability building Group Dental; Health$ (LTIP) returned to work. around technical, soft skills and on-the-job Account (Health Screening / training is critical. This includes scheduled Vaccination expenses) classroom learnings, condensed e-learning Training and Education Programmes for upgrading employee modules, and more experiential learning on Disability Group Term Life (Death & Six days PruCare skills and transition assistance the job. and invalidity TPD); Group Crisis Cover Others leave; Lifestyle dollars programmes coverage Extra (37 Critical Illnesses) allowance We want to enhance the competencies of our Our online Workday Learning platform was employees and strengthen their capabilities launched in July 2019 and has over 9,000 in meeting job requirements, improve work courses, covering both technical and soft performance and achieve business results. Our skills. The courses are assessible to all contract focus is on building future-ready employees and permanent employees. In 2019, our Male entitlement is three and fostering a growth mindset while employees completed 18,000 training hours Parental out of which 2,656 hours are attributed to weeks, female entitlement empowering all employees to take charge of Leave is 24 weeks their learning journey. Workday online learning hours. The definition used or ‘significant locations of operation’ is based on our Singapore operations. 11 Parental leave arrangements for the remaining employees will stretch into 2020 and have been omitted. PRUDENTIAL SINGAPORE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 40 PEOPLE Examples of courses include: • Technical: Basic & Advance Excel, Power Query & Power BI, EBS Basic & Advance, Understanding the Policy Illustration. Average hours of training per year per employee Employee Review • Soft Skills: Leadership Behaviours, Time Total training hours per employee / total number of employees As part of our regular performance cycle, all Management, Storytelling and Stakeholder employees and managers undertake a formal 12.5 13.1 Management, Understanding the Role of Average training hours per employee Average training hours per male employee performance and career development review an Actuary. at least twice a year. Their ability to learn and translate that In 2019, we launched the TellMe app that learning into action rapidly, is the ultimate enables employees to give and receive competitive advantage. Learning will help 360-feedback from anyone in the organisation, support leaders today and develop the anywhere, anytime. The app promotes a 12.1 10.2 Average training hours per female employee Average training hours per executive leadership skills of tomorrow. feedback culture and employees no longer need to wait for their twice-yearly reviews. We are strong supporters of internal mobility and our employees are given the opportunity We remain diligent about our employee to move within different functions of the development and have regular employee organisation. In doing so, they widen their Average training hours per Average training hours per reviews. During the reporting period, all employees received their regular performance 12.2 18.7 skill set and gain valuable experience as middle management senior management they advance through their careers. Internal and career development review. mobility also helps us retain talent and promote growth within the organisation. Note: For the purpose of this report, all Executives refer to Senior Executives and below, Middle Management refers to Associate Managers to Senior Managers, and Senior Management refers to Deputy VP and above. PRUDENTIAL SINGAPORE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 41 TECHNOLOGY PRUDENTIAL SINGAPORE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 42 TECHNOLOGY Innovating to Serve our Over the last two years, enhancements have In 2019, we launched “askPRU Lite”, a Customers Better been made to the chatbot. In 2018, push desktop version of the chatbot, which allows Innovation and technological advances notifications were created to inform financial Prudential’s employees to access askPRU’s are critical to organisational growth and consultants about their customers’ birthdays. FAQs more conveniently on their laptops, business transformation. We believe that This enables them to follow up accordingly and without having to install the application on technology will help us drive better customer strengthen their relationships with customers their mobile phones. experiences, operational efficiency and make even through a simple gesture. informed, data-driven decisions. Recognising that customers are demanding greater seamlessness, convenience and control over their finances, we have been investing in technology to meet their evolving needs. askPRU: a Chatbot to Help Financial Consultants Engage Better with Customers Launched in 2017, askPRU is our AI-powered chatbot available 24/7 to provide our financial consultants with real-time information about their clients’ policies and frequently asked questions (FAQs). Available as a mobile app, askPRU provides fast, reliable, and consistent Over 90% access to customer data even after regular business hours, allowing financial consultants to respond to customer queries more quickly. of our more than 5,000-strong financial consultants leverage askPRU. In 2019, the average monthly call enquiries to our communication channels fell by about 40%. askPRU has, therefore, enabled both our financial consultants and employees to spend more time on other meaningful work and ensure better customer service overall. PRUDENTIAL SINGAPORE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 43 TECHNOLOGY Training PRUForce: Managing Sales To ensure the proper use of askPRU, financial and Leads Better consultants undergo an e-Learning module Launched in 2019, PRUForce is a sales and on a secure enquiry portal to learn about the leads management tool used by more than chatbot’s features and benefits. 85% of our financial consultants. In the first With PRUForce, I am able to categorise my three months after the launch, more than clients’ financial needs and interests. When a Future Plans 95,000 leads were captured. The tool is new product is launched or a new campaign In 2020, we expect to enhance the chatbot compatible with multiple devices, including is announced, I can easily create a list of with an autocomplete feature that provides mobiles and tablets, and allows for seamless predictions based on the information in the integration with PRUONE Express, a digital potential prospects to reach out to using the database as users type into a search box. This point-of-sales tool used by all financial categories as a basis. This helps me better new feature will improve the user experience consultants. Leslie Koh connect with clients because I can share about and provide more accurate responses. Agency Leader a specific product or campaign that matches PRUForce supports productivity by providing Feedback Mechanisms financial consultants insights and access Prudential Singapore their interests. askPRU has also helped with To keep the application up to date, we have a to customers’ policy details, and proposals, productivity. I now have quicker access to team focused on training the chatbot’s system, arming them with the necessary information customer-specific information, such as their which allows it to understand non-scripted to have meaningful conversations with their policy premium due date and claims submission questions, mimic human conversations, customers. The platform unifies policyholder status and can respond to my clients’ queries and determine the intent behind queries to information and overall interaction history improve its responses over time. Financial into a single view to support higher customer more promptly via the chatbot. These digital consultants also have the option of clicking retention. It gathers and keeps track of key tools help me manage my sales better so that on a “thumbs down” button next to responses insights such as financial goals, needs and I can spend more time advising my clients and that do not address their queries. Together, relationship networks during the onboarding meeting increasing customer needs. both groups work simultaneously to improve phase and allows financial consultants to the type of responses and overall user recommend a tailored mix of solutions unique experience. Other feedback channels include to each customer. The result yields greater writing in to the central Customer Service growth potential, stickiness and more mailbox and responding to an online survey. personalised insights to better serve the customer. PRUDENTIAL SINGAPORE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 44 TECHNOLOGY Over time, the platform has seen interactions with prospects and customers Future Plans series of questions tailored to their individual developments, from one that solely captures are regularly logged in the system. Data In 2020, we plan to enhance the following: profiles and within seconds, will know if their leads, to one that helps our financial from customers and leads are visible only to applications for insurance cover are successful consultants with the entire sales process, relevant financial consultants and agency 1. Leads and activity management or require further review. If a customer’s including providing them the ability to track leaders. Before the launch, multiple rigorous framework by enabling more realapplication has been accepted for cover, their leads at various stages. It is constantly Penetration Tests were performed by our time services and data access, such as they receive an electronic copy of their policy improved with new features on a monthly basis Information Technology (IT) Governance team integrating PRUForce with MyInfo to contract within two hours, instead of the usual e.g. digital surveys, a business card scanner, to ensure customer data remains secure. streamline the lead capture process. turnaround time of two days. The solution is automated workflow for events management, built on a rules-based engine and uses business an enhanced customer 360° view and pending We also conduct training sessions for our 2. The lead assignment logic, to ensure analytics. requirements for policy inception. New major financial consultants, agency leaders and customer queries are responded to quickly, capabilities are also introduced every quarter. employees on the proper use of the platform. and new leads are assigned to the top Both customers, financial consultants and Previous manual processes that are required Newly-joined financial consultants are also performers, who demonstrate ethical employees see benefits. Customers get to for sales activities are becoming digitised with required to undergo a training session as sales conduct. enjoy a more seamless purchase experience, the help of PRUForce. part of the onboarding process. To further while financial consultants see a reduction aid our distributors on the proper use of the 3. Expand PRUForce to other channels: in paperwork and the need to go back to Training platform, a comprehensive document on the customers with additional questions. This way, PRUForce applies and monitors compliance platform’s Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) A. Financial Service Consultants under they can spend more time engaging with their and market conduct standards to ensure and learning videos are provided to them for our partnership with Standard customers and advising them on their financial sustainable business growth. It records all reference. Chartered Bank needs. Our underwriting team also saves time information – sales and marketing activities on underwriting. With a digital and more – in one place, which allows quick and Feedback Mechanisms B. Enterprise Business Solutions simplified underwriting process, they can spend organised access to information for regulatory The PRUForce team, made up of our consultants their time on more complex cases. compliance and market conduct examinations. employees, such as the Distribution Excellence The digital underwriting solution was team, Business Development Managers and C. Call Centre and Customer Service first made available in January 2019 for To ensure the proper use of PRUForce, we Business Development Directors, regularly Centre Prudential’s PRUTriple Protect, a critical illness conduct trainings that adhere to customer engage and interact with the financial plan that provides protection against multiple privacy rules. Necessary checks-and-balances consultants and agency leaders to gather Instant Underwriting illnesses. In December 2019, the solution was are also implemented at different stages feedback on the platform which are translated Prudential’s instant underwriting solution extended to PRUPersonal Accident, a plan of every sales process, and distributors into improvements for subsequent releases. enables us to perform real-time risk assessment that complements existing hospitalisation or on policy applications and make underwriting medical insurance to ensure coverage in the decisions on-the-spot. Customers answer a event of an accident. PRUDENTIAL SINGAPORE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 45 TECHNOLOGY Training investment policies anytime, anywhere. Feedback Mechanisms 2. Both Babylon services, the health As instant underwriting is part of the sales With the portal, customers can update The PRUvoice Programme helps us gather assessment and symptom checker, have process in PRUONE Express, trainings and their particulars, access e-documents (e.g. customer feedback and recommendations been localised to meet Singapore-specific workshops are provided to our financial Certificates, Statements and Notices, and to help us continually improve our service requirements. The products have been offerings. tested and signed off by a panel of consultants to ensure that they are familiar Point-of-Sale Documents) and perform various Singapore registered doctors. with the tool. This includes what to expect and secure transactions (e.g. premium redirection, manage upon proposal submissions. cash benefit withdrawal), providing them 3. The services offered by MyDoc are more autonomy over their policies when the part of the Ministry of Health’s (MOH) Future Plans need arises. sandbox and have been approved for the Enhancements to improve the customer Singapore market. journey will be rolled out in phases. Our goal Future Plans is to onboard all other existing products using Changing customer behaviour and customer Promoting Innovation at the Singapore the engine. feedback have led us to realise the need for FinTech Festival (SFF) a complete revamp of the platform. In 2020, Pulse by Prudential Results we will work on improving the user experience Pulse by Prudential (Pulse) is an all-in-one 9,000 and interface by enabling an easier portal digital app and first-of-its-kind in Asia to offer FinTech in Insurance To date, more than navigation and optimising it for mobile use. holistic health management to consumers. The financial sector is an integral part As part of the continuous improvement of Using AI-powered self-help tools and real-time of Singapore’s ambition to be a smart PRUaccess, our customers will also be able to information, Pulse empowers them to take nation and Singapore has emerged as log-in to the portal using their SingPass details. control of their personal health and wellbeing. a global financial technology (FinTech) cases have passed This is a key step towards helping consumers hub with the development of over through the solution. Results prevent, postpone and protect against the 500 registered FinTech start-ups, in Transactions increased to a monthly onset of disease. excess of S$1 billion raised in the first Feedback Mechanisms nine months of 201912 and 50 Fintech average of 90,000 users in 2019 up from Any feedback related to the engine is routed to In its preliminary offerings, Pulse takes innovation labs recorded in 201913. a monthly average of 35,000 in 2017. We healthcare to a new level of engagement with our PRUONE Express Service Desk. If a fault is have also seen about an 80% increase in out of our technical expertise, we will escalate consumers. The goal is to integrate personal The digital transformation is rapidly average (number of) monthly customers health management by providing users with changing the way customers approach the matter to UnderwriteMe, the company using PRUaccess now compared to 2017. real-time information. the financial services industry. that developed the solution, who will work with Recognising that our customers 80% us to provide the required support. are demanding greater speed, To ensure proper use of Pulse, seamlessness, convenience and control PRUaccess over their finances, we invested S$70 1. We adhere to the PDPA guidelines and the PRUaccess is a self-help portal for customers application complies with a privacy and million in 2019 into technology as part to get an overview of their insurance and consent framework. of our Digital Roadmap. 12 Singapore Fintech Fundraising Rises Sharply in 2019 to Date, Driven by Spike in Average Size of Payments and Insurtech Deals, Accenture Analysis Finds. Available at: https://newsroom.accenture.com/news/singapore-fintech-fundraising-rises-sharply-in2019-to-date-driven-by-spike-in-average-size-of-payments-and-insurtech-deals-accenture-analysis-finds.htm 13 Monetary Authority of Singapore, 2019. Inaugural SFF x SWITCH sees over 60,000 participants from 140 countries; event to return on 9 to 13 November 2020. Available at: https://www.mas.gov.sg/news/media-releases/2019/sff-x-switch PRUDENTIAL SINGAPORE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 46 TECHNOLOGY In 2017, we announced a five-year live well for longer and realising our ready for Our PRU Fintegrate Partnership The 2019 edition of PRUFintegrate attracted commitment to MAS to be a Grand Sponsor 100 aspirations, we believe technology can programme 83 scaleup applications from 13 countries of the Singapore Fintech Festival from play a key role in making longevity a positive In 2017, we launched the PRU Fintegrate globally. For this edition, we identified two partner 2018 to 2022. The sponsorship agreement experience by helping people take charge of Partnership programme (PRUFintegrate), solutions, Active.Ai and Spiro Technologies, to run demonstrates our dedication to fostering their health. One such solution is Pulse, which our flagship innovation programme for a proof of concept based on a mutually-agreed a culture of innovation, collaboration and was showcased at our SFF booth, and helps to FinTech, InsurTech, HealthTech and MedTech scope. Active.Ai’s solution delivers conversational co-creation among financial institutions, make healthcare more inclusive and accessible, scale-ups around the world to help us solve AI to engage visitors of our digital channels, FinTechs, MedTechs, HealthTechs, InsurTechs allowing us to play a greater role in helping our business challenges with innovative allowing them to get answers to simple queries and regulators globally. This also serves as people prevent and postpone the onset of solutions. The programme aims to build instantly over messaging, voice or IoT devices. an opportunity for us to contribute to the chronic diseases. an ecosystem of partners whose solutions This improves our response time and generates development and growth of the financial enhance the customer experience by enabling new leads and opportunities for our financial and digital ecosystem, as well as strengthen In line with the theme of sustainability, our our employees and financial consultants to consultants. Spiro’s proactive relationship partnerships with our existing partners such as booth was made up entirely from corrugated better engage with customers, help them work management platform leverages machine learning Babylon Health and MyDoc among others. cardboard that was 100% recyclable and FSC smarter and more efficiently, as well as help and analytics. It helps our enterprise sales team certified. After the exhibition, materials from enterprises thrive. to streamline their workflow and improves lead conversions via web or mobile app and provides In 2019, we identified four areas for people the booth were sent to the recycling mill. proactive recommendations on next best actions. to think about living well for longer: Health, Wealth, Relationships and Skills. This also supported our underlying Ready for 100 theme and three other pillars – Healthy for With people living for longer, Prudential is moving 100, Wealthy for 100 and Skilled for 100. away from simply protecting lives to helping Living to 100 presents both opportunities as well as issues to be overcome. It offers us People are living longer and ageing faster. people live longer through prevention and the promise of being with our loved ones, The challenge is how we’re going to pay for this postponement of diseases. Technology is a key pursuing work and enjoying lifestyle activities population to retire and live longer than anyone part of our wellness strategy. for much longer. At the same time, it requires expected. us to be more self-aware and proactive in Wilf Blackburn ensuring the key facets of our wellbeing Regional CEO, Insurance Growth Markets – health and wellness, financial stability, Mike Wells Prudential Corporation Asia supportive relationships and fulfilling work Group Chief Executive Prudential plc – are sufficiently able to keep pace with our increasing longevity. In preparing people to PRUDENTIAL SINGAPORE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 47 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE PRUDENTIAL SINGAPORE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 48 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE As an industry traditionally reliant on paper the Green Building Certification standards and Supported by our work-life balance policies, we and energy to run our business operations, we efficiency metrics set out by BCA Singapore. took steps to regulate the use of lights and airrecognise that there are actions we can take conditioning in our Marina One and Prudential to reduce our environmental footprint. In the We have put in place an Energy Efficiency Tower locations after office hours. Lights were repast year, we have taken steps to encourage Improvement Plan which outlines our targets zoned and re-wired, and are now equipped with sustainable consumption and reduce our for energy use, conservation and improvement. motion-sensors, which turn off after 15 minutes carbon footprint within the workplace as we of inactivity. Air-conditioning, a big driver of recognise that businesses can play a role to energy consumption, is switched off at 8pm, Energy Use 5% slow down the effects of climate change. two hours earlier than before. We have started replacing the lights at our Prudential@Scotts Our Workplace Services team oversee our office office with LED solutions and target to complete infrastructure and lead the implementation of work in the first half of the year. our Energy Management, Waste Management and Green Procurement policies. Our policies in energy savings over As the measures were implemented between the are aligned with our Group Environmental the next three years, end of 2019 and the start of 2020, we will share Policy and guide our objectives of managing from 2019 to 2021. the results of our energy-saving initiatives in our our environmental impacts and promoting next report. sustainable practices within the organisation. Energy Conservation Our Energy Consumption in 2019: 90% In 2019, our WorkPLAYce at Marina One was At least certified Green Mark Platinum, the highest accolade awarded by the Building and Construction Authority (BCA) Singapore and Health Promotion Board (HPB) for Healthier of all office equipment Workplaces. Among other things, we were to be certified as energy recognised for our environmental policies as efficient. well as use of sustainable materials in the renovation of our corporate offices. Energy Consumption Petrol Consumption Energy Improvement Future Plans Reduce energy 2,642,035.11kW/h 7534.92 litres We are committed to responsible energy consumption by Electricity used to power up our offices Petrol consumed by corporate cars 9511.33GJ 260.57GJ management and the use of energy-efficient replacing outdated light solutions within our offices. Guiding this is our fittings with energyEnergy Management policy, which adheres to efficient solutions. PRUDENTIAL SINGAPORE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 49 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE How We Manage Our Waste Our Waste Management policy affirms our commitment to efficient waste management to reduce and recycle waste produced to improve our environmental performance. One way we accomplish this is through our e-waste initiative. We ran a campaign in 2019 to promote responsible e-waste recycling among our employees. Our Marina One and Prudential@Scotts offices are also equipped with collection points to reduce the amount of waste that would have been otherwise been incinerated. Items collected at these points are sent to an external vendor for recycling and proper e-waste disposal. Overview of our Waste Management and Recycling Flow: Plastic General Waste Cleaning staff to Waste Generated Paper / Glass / Bottles collect waste from Recycle waste at the 40,507kg and General Waste bin centre 1,096kg recycling bins No hazardous waste was produced. Paper collected by Printing Paper an external vendor Office Waste Recycled under the Paper Waste Percentage of Toners and Ink Cartridges Canon Take Back Generated Paper we Recycle Programme 13,657kg 24% This exceeds our 5% recycling E-waste Sent for IT asset disposal rate target that we had set to achieve by 2021. Toners and E-waste collected by an E-waste Employee Deposited at Printer Ink external vendor for Recycled Personal E-waste e-waste bin recycling (from April 2019) Cartridges Used 104 We support the Canon Take Back 148kg programme and recycle all of our ink and toner cartridges. PRUDENTIAL SINGAPORE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 50 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE To ensure the success of our waste management initiatives, we frequently communicate the importance of recycling and proper waste disposal to our employees. We have recycling bins throughout the office It took us three years to complete our transformation from and draw attention to recycling best-practices work space to WorkPLAYce and credit goes to the teams that based on NEA’s guidelines. have brought us to where we are today. When hot-desking We also encourage our employees to was first introduced, it was not easy for everyone to catch onto adopt sustainable consumption habits Vishwash Gaur the concept and it took us some time to move from wah lau! through campaigns that raise awareness of Head, Digital Marketing environmental issues. We held an event to raise Prudential Singapore so messy to wow! it’s great. Today, my team and I enjoy the awareness of Climate Action in 2018, where flexibility of working in the office or at home, and our access nearly 700 employees pledged to take simple to productivity tools allow us to work collaboratively. actions to save resources and the environment. I like the different seating options as well. A personal favourite In 2019, as consumers and organisations across the globe pushed for the reduction in would be the round tables in the office as it is easy to strike the use of disposables, we took the step to up conversations and meet new people, which is important remove single-use plastics in our offices. for my work. As a result of this, the average amount of single-use plastic waste we generated a month fell by 73%14. The other big change in behaviour came about when the teams removed disposables from the office in 2019. It is now a common sight to see everyone queueing up with their mug and lunchbox at our PruBistro, and I am proud to play a part in reducing waste and contributing to a sustainable future. 14 Based on data collected for our Marina One office. On average, we generated 131kg of single-use plastic waste per month between January to July 2019. This number fell to an average of 35kg per month after the policy was introduced in August 2019. PRUDENTIAL SINGAPORE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 51 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE Our Green Procurement Policy Leading as a Green and Healthy Workplace Our Green Procurement Policy We moved in to our newly-renovated Marina One East Tower office in 2017 and received a Platinum award in the BCA-HPB Green Mark for Healthier Workplaces supports the purchase of recycled in 2019 for our use of sustainable building materials, technology to reduce our environmental footprint and initiatives to promote health and wellbeing. and environmentally-friendly products in order to minimise Prudential Singapore for Healthier Workplaces negative environmental impacts that may arise through our course of work. The guidelines of our Green Procurement Policy are integrated into our organisation’s wider Procurement and Purchasing policy. We regularly evaluate our purchase of environmentally-friendly certified products including: • Printing and writing paper, including all letterheads, envelopes and business cards. Designed an energy efficient Managed resources efficiently by Created a comfortable office Promote health and wellbeing • Paper products, including all hand office by using energy efficient using green products, materials environment by ensuring the through improving the nutritional towels, facial tissues, boxes and lighting, office equipment and and monitoring water and waste. parameters related to occupant value of food at our café, air-conditioning control. comfort are properly designed. encouraging physical activities stationery. and supporting employee mental wellbeing. • Environmentally-friendly cleaning products that minimise the harm to our employee health and the Key Highlights environment. Achieved a lighting power density Used sustainable materials like gypsum The office includes biophilic Our in-house café and pantry area (LPD) of 6.8W/m2, performing board, rockwool and Singapore Green features and new amenities such as provide social spaces for employees to Our Green Procurement Policy was better than the recommendation Building Certified materials for our collaboration areas, relaxation zones interact and unwind. We provide a small of ≤ 9 W/m2 for Platinum-certified interior walls, ceiling and flooring. and thematic meeting rooms. selection of breakfast to help everyone only finalised in 2019, and we will kickstart their day. update on progress in our next buildings. Sustainability Report. Green Desk Policy to encourage We promote an activity-based We have an amphitheatre on both levels employees to reduce the use of paper. workplace through an open-plan office of our office. The central space breaks with unassigned seating for everyone, down silos and plays host to meetings, which provides opportunities to gatherings, weekly health and fitness collaborate with new colleagues. classes and brings everyone from our customers, partners, financial consultants and employees into one space. PRUDENTIAL SINGAPORE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 52 MEMBERSHIPS AND EXTERNAL CHARTERS EXTERNAL MEMBERSHIP OF INITIATIVES ASSOCIATION BCA-HPB Green Mark for Healthier Workplaces Platinum Certification – We submit Asian Venture Philanthropy Network our annualised energy data on a yearly basis. British Chamber of Commerce Global Compact Network Singapore – We are a signatory to the United Nations (UN) Global Compact and this report serves as our Communication on Progress. Business Ethics Leadership Alliance Intermediaries Conduct Sub-Committee, Corporate Governance and Oversight European Chamber of Commerce Sub-Committee and International Best Practices Sub-Committee as part of the Insurance Culture and Conduct Steering Committee – The Steering Committee was Financial Women’s Association of Singapore established by the MAS, the General Insurance Association of Singapore (GIA), the Life Insurance Association (LIA) and the Singapore Reinsurers’ Association (SRA), to foster Institute of Policy Studies sound culture and strengthen standards of conduct among insurers in Singapore. Life Insurance Association MAS International Advisory Panel (IAP) Prudential Group Chief Executive Mike Wells is a member of the IAP which advises MAS on Singapore’s financial sector reforms and Life Insurance Association Investment Sub-Committee strategies. We provide support and input for these meetings. MAS Sustainable Insurance Committee (Investment) Singapore Business Federation Sustainable Employment Pledge – We support sustainable employment practices and encourage innovation as thriving customers, Singapore Insurance Employees’ Union employees and communities lead to better business and healthier long-term growth. Singapore International Chamber of Commerce Singapore Stewardship Principles (SSP) for Responsible Investors – We are a signatory to the SSP and are committed to driving good governance and stewardship. UN Global Compact Network Singapore PRUDENTIAL SINGAPORE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 53 SEA PR HUMAN RESOURCES BCA-HPB GREEN AWARDS 2019 ASIA RECRUITMENT MARK FOR ORGANISED BY MARKETING MAGAZINE for Best Insights-driven PR (Gold) AWARDS 2019 HEALTHIER and Best PR-led Integrated for Best Employer Branding (Silver) WORKPLACES Communications (Silver) (Platinum) April 2019 April 2019 May 2019 THE LOYALTY & SINGAPORE HR AWARDS ENGAGEMENT AWARDS 2019 AWARDS 2019 ORGANISED BY SHRI for Purpose Driven Organisation for Best Loyalty Programme (Gold) + Employee Engagement (Luxury) (Silver) July 2019 July 2019 SKILLSFUTURE HR FEST CCAS FELLOWSHIPS & AWARDS 2019 INTERNATIONAL SKILLSFUTURE ORGANISED BY HRM ASIA CONTACT CENTRE EMPLOYER AWARDS for Best HR Leader Sheela Parakkal, CHRO, Prudential Singapore AWARDS 2019 2019 for Best In-House Contact Centre for non-SMEs September 2019 (Bronze) August 2019 October 2019 PRUDENTIAL SINGAPORE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 54 ASSURANCE Our responsibility regarding this assurance processes in accordance with the GRI • Review adherence to the standards set out engagement is only to the management of Standards and an assessment of the Report’s in the GRI Standards 2016; Prudential Singapore. adherence to the “in accordance” criteria of STATEMENT the GRI Standards and verification of standard • Review adherence to the “in accordance” Assurance Standards disclosures indicated in the GRI Content Index criteria as stipulated in the GRI Standards The assurance engagement was undertaken in in the Report. 2016; accordance with: To the management of Prudential Assurance Limitations • Content verification corresponding to all Company Singapore • The principles and requirements established Our assurance engagement and scope of work General Disclosures and the Topic Specific in the AA1000 Assurance Standard 2008 did not include verification of: Standards included in the GRI Content Prudential Assurance Company Singapore (AA1000AS); Index in the Report; (“Prudential Singapore”) engaged CSRWorks • Financial data other than that related International Pte Ltd (“CSRWorks”) to provide • Review of sustainability policies, initiatives, • Global Reporting Initiative’s GRI Standards to environmental, social and economic independent assurance of its Sustainability practices and performance described in 2016; performance; Report 2019 (“the Report”). The Report covers the Report; Prudential Singapore’s operations from 1 Assurance Type and Scope • The adequacy or effectiveness of • Verification of the reliability, accuracy and January 2019 to 31 December 2019. This CSRWorks provided Type 2 assurance in Prudential’s strategy or management of completeness of FY2019 qualitative and statement presents our opinion as independent accordance with the AA1000AS (2008). sustainability issues; quantitative sustainability performance assurance providers. CSRWorks provided a Moderate level of data presented in the Report. assurance of the nature and extent of • Content provided by Prudential Singapore Prudential Singapore’s Responsibility Prudential Singapore’s adherence to the other than in the Report such as • Review and assessment of the processes, Prudential Singapore was responsible for AA1000 AccountAbility Principles (2008) information contained on its website and methods and tools for gathering, analyzing preparing the Report as well as for the and the reliability, accuracy and quality of web links in the Report; and reporting quantitative and qualitative collection, collation, analysis and presentation the specified sustainability performance sustainability information provided in of all information and data provided in the information contained in the Report. Evidence • Any historical data and information the Report. Report. Prudential Singapore’s responsibility gathering was primarily from internal sources presented in the Report for the purpose of included establishing and maintaining internal and was restricted to management levels in the comparisons. Methodology controls over systems and processes that organisation. This engagement was carried out between generate data and information contained in Assurance Objectives 11 February 2020 and 12 March 2020. Onsite the Report. The scope of our assurance engagement, as The assurance engagement’s objectives verification was conducted at Prudential agreed with Prudential Singapore, included were to: Singapore’s office at 7 Straits View, #06-01, Our Responsibility the review and verification of sustainability Marina One East Tower, Singapore 018936. Our responsibility was to provide independent policies, practices, initiatives, and performance • Review adherence to the AA1000AS assurance of this Report, in accordance with presented in the Report, an assessment of Accountability Principles of Materiality, CSRWorks adopted a comprehensive approach terms of reference agreed with Prudential. underlying management and reporting Inclusivity and Responsiveness; to carry out the assurance engagement by examining, and seeking evidence for, each PRUDENTIAL SINGAPORE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 55 ASSURANCE STATEMENT Standard Disclosure provided in the Report. We Management, Customer Experience, e. People: Employment and Training also assessed the robustness of the underlying Customer Management, Compliance, and Education data management processes, focusing on People Experience, Culture & Learning and quality controls, and the reliability of data Operations Excellence. f. Environmental Performance: provided in the Report. In order to obtain Energy and Effluent and Waste sufficient evidence for us to give a moderate 5. Interviews with members of senior level of assurance, and to arrive at conclusions management focused on assessing g. Technology and recommendations, we undertook the Prudential Singapore’s policies, principles, following activities: strategies, governance, and approaches to managing material issues. Interviews 7. A review of samples of source data for 1. Desk review of the Report draft to assess with key personnel responsible for verifying Prudential Singapore’s information adherence to the GRI Standards 2016 and collecting and monitoring data involved management systems and processes to identify the Standard Disclosures covered assessing Prudential Singapore’s processes focusing on the reliability of data reported, in the Report for verification. for gathering, compiling, analysing and in accordance with the requirements of monitoring performance data. AA1000AS (2008) and the GRI Standards. The assessment of the reliability of data 2. Based on the desk review, a detailed included a review of completeness and assessment plan was developed that 6. Testing of limited samples of data points, accuracy, and of the methods, practices included the GRI General Disclosures and documents, records and information, and tools used in the collection, collation, material Topic Specific Standards included including the following material areas to analysis, and reporting of data and in the Report for verification. collect and evaluate evidence to support information. The assessment also included the assurance engagement undertaken: a review of internal quality control, data 3. Visits were made to Prudential Singapore’s traceability and testing of calculations. office to review the specified economic, a. Customers: Customer privacy and social and environmental performance Fair dealing Conclusion data and underlying data management In CSRWorks’ opinion, based on the processes and practices. b. Responsible Investment: Economic engagement carried out, Prudential Singapore’s performance Sustainability Report 2019 provides a fair and 4. Extensive interviews with 15 Prudential reliable account of the company’s material Singapore executives including the Head c. Supporting Our Communities: issues, sustainability strategies, management of Ethics, senior management executives Local communities approach and performance. Based on our and key personnel from various functions, work, Prudential Singapore’s Report has met including Investment, Corporate Services, d. Business Integrity: Anti-corruption the conditions for adherence to the AA1000 Principles, and the “In Accordance-Core” Criteria Community Investment, Technology Risk of the GRI Standards 2016. PRUDENTIAL SINGAPORE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 56 ASSURANCE STATEMENT Observations and Recommendations Responsiveness environmental audits in a range of industry Our observations and recommendations, Prudential Singapore develops sustainability sectors, sustainability reporting, GHG reporting, within the scope of this engagement, are strategies, goals and objectives based on the stakeholder engagement and development of presented below specifically with reference materiality analysis, its sustainability context sustainability standards. to the adherence to the AA1000 Principles and stakeholder expectations which make of materiality, inclusivity and responsiveness, its overall approach responsive. The Report and the GRI Standards 2016. We have also provides an account of its performance on On behalf of the assurance team submitted a more detailed confidential report the material issues which are of interest to the 11 March 2020 | Singapore to the management of Prudential Singapore respective stakeholders. that contains additional recommendations for improvement in the future. Our Independence CSRWorks was not involved in preparing any Adherence to AA1000 Principles and the part of the Report, with the exception of this GRI Standards 2016 Assurance Statement. CSRWorks has not undertaken any prior work with Prudential Materiality Singapore or any of its stakeholders on Prudential Singapore has a mature any engagements that could impair the understanding of its material issues and independence, impartiality or objectivity of where they occur. Prudential Singapore has our findings, observations, conclusions and Rajesh Chhabrar engaged diverse stakeholders to determine its recommendations. Managing Direcor and Lead Assessor sustainability context, materiality and strategic CSRWorks International Ptd Ltd priorities. Prudential Singapore provides a good Our Competency explanation of its sustainability context. CSRWorks, a leading provider of sustainability services focused on advisory, training and Inclusivity thought leadership, has more than 14 years Prudential Singapore has a good understanding of track record in sustainability reporting, of who its stakeholders are. The Report provides integrated reporting, external assurance, a fair account of Prudential Singapore’s organisational carbon footprint and supply constructive engagement with regulators, chain assessment. This assurance engagement investors, customers, employees, distributors, was carried out by two assessors led by a senior civil society and suppliers. The Report provides assessor with over 20 years of experience specific examples of how it engages with these in sustainability that includes conducting stakeholders. or overseeing hundreds of social and PRUDENTIAL SINGAPORE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 57 GRI Content Index GENERAL DISCLOSURES GRI Standard Disclosure Page Reference ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE 102-1 Name of the organisation 4 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 4, 14 102-3 Location of headquarters 63 102-4 Location of operations 63 102-5 Ownership and legal form 4 102-6 Markets served 4 102-7 Scale of the organisation 4 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 14, 35 102-9 Supply chain 8, 33 GRI 102: General 102-10 Significant changes to organisation and its supply chain There were no significant changes to our organisational profile and Disclosures 2016 supply chain during the reporting period. 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach We do not explicitly refer to the Precautionary Principle or approach in our risk management framework. 102-12 External initiatives 53 102-13 Membership of associations 53 STRATEGY 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 1 to 3 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behaviour 5 to 8, 32, 33, 38 GOVERNANCE 102-18 Governance structure 4 PRUDENTIAL SINGAPORE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 58 GRI Standard Disclosure Page Reference STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 9 to 11 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 2.6% of our total employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 9 to 11 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 9 to 11 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 12 REPORTING PRACTICE 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements Please refer to Annual Report 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries 7, 8 GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-47 List all material topics 7, 8, 12 102-48 Restatements of information Not applicable as this is the inaugural report 102-49 Changes in reporting Not applicable as this is the inaugural report 102-50 Reporting period 15 102-51 Date of most recent report Not applicable as this is the inaugural report 102-52 Reporting cycle 15 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 15 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with GRI Standards 15 102-55 GRI content index 58 102-56 External Assurance Statement 55 to 57 PRUDENTIAL SINGAPORE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 59 GRI MATERIAL TOPICS GRI Standard Disclosure Page Reference CUSTOMERS GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 7, 12, 13, 17 Management 103-2 The management approach and its components 17 Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 14, 17 to 22 GRI 418: Customer Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and 418-1 20 Privacy 2016 losses of customer data RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 7, 12 GRI 103: Management 103-2 The management approach and its components 24 Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 14, 24, 25 GRI 201: Economic 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 24, 25 Performance 2016 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts 25 SUPPORTING OUR COMMUNITIES 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 7, 12, 13, 27 GRI 103: Management 103-2 The management approach and its components 27 Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 14, 27 to 30 GRI 413: 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, 28 to 30 Local and development programs Communities 2016 PRUDENTIAL SINGAPORE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 60 GRI Standard Disclosure Page Reference BUSINESS INTEGRITY GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 8, 32 Management 103-2 The management approach and its components 32, 33 Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 32, 33 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 33 GRI 205: Anti205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and 33 corruption 2016 procedures 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 32 PEOPLE GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 8, 35, 36 Management 103-2 The management approach and its components 36 to 38 Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 39 to 41 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to 14, 40 temporary or part-time employees GRI 401: 401-3 Parental leave 40 Employment 2016 401-3(d)(e) The information is not available and will be included in the subsequent report. GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 8, 35, 36 Management 103-2 The management approach and its components 37, 38 Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 40, 41 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 41 GRI 404: Training 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs 40, 41 and Education 2016 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career 41 development reviews PRUDENTIAL SINGAPORE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 61 GRI Standard Disclosure Page Reference ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 8, 49 GRI 103: Management 103-2 The management approach and its components 49 Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 49 GRI 302: Energy 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 49 2016 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 49 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 8, 50 GRI 103: Management 103-2 The management approach and its components 50 Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 14, 50 to 52 GRI 306: Effluents 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 50 and Waste 2016 OTHER MATERIAL TOPICS CUSTOMERS – FAIR DEALING 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 7, 17 GRI 103: Management 103-2 The management approach and its components 17 Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 17 to 19 Fair Dealing 16 to 19 TECHNOLOGY 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 8, 43 GRI 103: Management 103-2 The management approach and its components 43, 44 Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 44 to 47 Technology 42 to 47 PRUDENTIAL SINGAPORE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 62 Location of our Headquarters Location of Prudential Assurance Company Prudential plc Singapore (Pte) Limited Operations 1 Angel Court Registered Office London, England 30 Cecil Street #30-01 Prudential Tower EC2R 7AG, United Kingdom Singapore 049712 Our other corporate offices span across the following other locations: Prudential Corporate Office, 7 Straits View Marina One East Tower Singapore 018936 Prudential@Scotts, 51 Scotts Road Singapore 228241 Fuji Xerox Towers, 80 Anson Road Singapore 079907 Parkview Square, 600 North Bridge Road #08-01 Singapore 188778 Goldbell Towers, 47 Scotts Road #04-03/04,#15-01, #18-01 A/B/C Singapore 228233 SBF Centre, 160 Robinson Road #11-02/03/04 Singapore 068914
