7N Annual Report 2019 Reporting on Sustainability Sustainability at 7N We have high ambitions on behalf of our more than 350 employees and 1,343 freelance consultants, and in the 7N is represented in Denmark, Poland, India, Norway, same way, we also expect them to make demands on Sweden, Finland, Germany, Switzerland, and the USA, us in relation to ongoing development and good workwhich means that we have a global impact in relation ing conditions. Globally, our main social impact is reto social responsibility. lated to the development of our employees, as well as the general working conditions of our employees and 7N is based on fundamental principles of, among other consultants. things, wisdom, curiosity, cooperation, selflessness, and tolerance, rooted in the three values: As a consulting company, we also have a large focus on business ethics and anti-corruption. Our most impor• Professionalism tant risks in this regard are particularly related to our consulting and sales functions, which require close • Mindset of the Servant contact with clients and consultants. Furthermore, we have a climate and environmental footprint through our • Respect transport to and from clients, etc. → 7N Office Copenhagen, Denmark — 64 65 7N Annual Report 2019 In order to ensure correct handling of personal data, we have in 2019 updated our Data Privacy Policy in compliance with GDPR and the latest guidelines from the authorities. We have conducted mandatory training In 2019, we also carried out the satisfaction survey of employees in GDPR and data protection, especially in “Voice of the Consultants” among our consultants. handling the personal data of our consultants. The study showed that consultants generally have very high job satisfaction and that we have improved sigIn order to minimize risks related to human rights, nificantly on the different areas compared to 2018. We social conditions and working conditions, environmenActions and results will, in 2020, keep focusing on areas that can improve tal issues, and corruption issues among employees, our cooperation with the consultants and their profesconsultants, and suppliers, 7N has implemented Codes → In 2019, we launched onboarding workshops for all sional development. of Conduct for employees, consultants, and suppliers, our new sales agents and recruiters. The focus of the so it is a natural part of all our contracts. workshop is for all our employees to learn and unIn a world where technologies rapidly develop and Employee relations and human rights derstand 7N’s values including, how the values can be change, we find it important that our consultants In 7N, the primary risks of corruption and unethical lived out in our daily business life. and we more than meet the new requirements and business behavior are related to our sales and conPolicy and risks demands in the market. 7N Academy focuses on desulting functions. This is mainly due to the fact that 7N’s procedures and code of conduct are also an imveloping the consultants’ professional competencies, these functions require close contact with clients, In 7N, respect for each other and the society we operate portant part of the onboarding training program. through certifications, professional networking events, suppliers, etc. → in is a fundamental principle. It is important for us that courses, and sparring in relation to professional develboth our own employees, our consultants, and supThe goal for the onboarding program has been to opment. pliers’ employees work under proper conditions. We increase the new employees’ knowledge of 7N values, support and respect internationally recognized human procedures, and how 7N treat all with respect and In 2019, we have increased our 7N Academy program rights principles as formulated in the UN’s Universal professionalism. The feedback from the participants so that we now have an even larger variety of training Declaration of Human Rights and the internationally has been very positive. We will continue the onboardcourses, events, and conferences. Our consultants recognized labor rights principles as specified in the ing program in 2020. have, in the Voice of Consultant’s survey, appreciated International Labor Organization’s core conventions. our professional offerings. In addition to the responsibility of our employees, we Risks related to employee relationships and social are a consultancy that takes responsibility for our conconditions are primarily within indoor climate, physical sultants’ professional development. and ergonomic working conditions, and the employees’ mental health. We focus on challenges before they become problems. Risks of violating human rights are primarily related to personal data, and to working conditions among our consultants and suppliers. 66 67 7N Annual Report 2019 → Actions and results In 2019, we continued our practice of having at least four eyes on and approval of the management when distributing sponsorships and donations. Internal processes ensure that our consultants do not receive Climate and environmental conditions sponsorships. In 2019, no forms of corruption, bribery or breach of 7N’s business ethics were registered. Policy and risks In order to ensure that all employees, consultants, and In 7N, we strive to minimize the negative impact on the The Danish Nature Fund is a fund founded in 2015 by the suppliers work on the basis of 7N’s values and guideclimate and the environment related to our business Danish state and two large private conservation funds. lines related to anti-corruption, we have in 2019 impleactivities. As an IT consulting company, our significant mented our Codes of Conduct for employees, suppliers, environmental risks are related to fuel consumption The aim and purpose of the Fund are to promote the and consultants. and CO2 emissions through the transport of our emprotection of nature and the water environment in ployees and consultants, as well as our climate and Denmark. tive to provide an appropriate distribution of men and environmental impact throughout the value chain, both women in management. To 7N, it is important that the through direct and indirect purchases of materials. managers have the right skills, regardless of what §99b Target figures for the Board gender they have. Actions and results of Directors It is the Group’s intention to create the basis for a more We continuously focus on minimizing our impact on The Board of Directors has set a target figure for the equal distribution of the genders in the other managethe environment and climate in our business activities, proportion of elected female board members of at ment levels, and we strive to, if possible, have one of by limiting our resource consumption, increasing the least 40% in 2022, and that both genders must at least each gender for interview. recycling of our waste, and reducing CO2 emissions be represented. There are currently no women on during transport. We implemented our travel portal in the board. There was a change of board members in Other management levels are those positions that do all our locations, so now we have one single place for 2019, as there was a need for new competencies on the not relate to the Board of Directors. recording how much we travel, for the benefit of both board. In the search for new board members, several the economy and the climate. candidates were evaluated equally, and the choice fell on two men who possess the competencies currently Charity We have made a donation to the Danish Nature Fund to needed and that can help 7N on the future journey. 7N make a positive climate contribution and to offset our regularly evaluates suitable candidates for the com7N has several support projects in India providing CO2 emissions through the Fund’s sustainable nature pany’s Board of Directors. humanitarian support for orphanages, nursing homes, and forestry projects. and various ad hoc projects. The Group’s target for the gender distribution in the Group and the next middle management level is 40%. In 2019, 7N has supported a female prison in New Delhi. Other management levels were represented by 1 Many of the prisoned women have their kids within the woman out of 9 in 2018. It is the Group’s overall objecprison and without any contact with their relatives. 7N has supported the women and their kids with clothes, study materials, toy, and materials that can be used for individual earnings. For the 7N Group it is important to contribute to society. 68 69 7N Annual Report 2019 Financial Highlights 2019 ESG Key figure overview Definitions of ratios Unit Target 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Full-time workforce Gender Diversity Gender diversity, management Women FTEs + Women Social Data FTEs + Temporary workers temporary workers Women in management x 100 x 100 Full-time workforce FTE 350 321 298 221 196 154 Full-time workforce All FTEs in management Gender diversity % 45 45 41 44 43 40 Gender diversity, management % 11% 11% 11% 22% 22% 22% Gender pay ratio Times 1,2 1,2 1,1 1,2 1,2 1,2 Gender pay ratio Gender diversity, board CEO Pay Ratio Women Board members Governance data Average male salary elected at the AGM CEO compensation x 100 Gender diversity, board % 0 0 0 0 0 0 Average female salary All AGM elected board Average staff salary CEO pay ratio Times 8 8 9 8 14 10 members 30 31
