UN Global Compact Communication on Progress August 2020 www.hermes-investment.com For professional investors only 2 UN Global Compact Chief Executive Statement 7 August 2020 The international business of Federated Hermes has been adhering to and promoting with investee companies the spirit and objectives of the UN Global Compact for many years. With our mission of delivering outcomes beyond performance, it is at the heart of what we stand for as an investment and stewardship services firm. Since first engaging for stronger UK corporate governance in 1983, to becoming a founding signatory of the Principles for Responsible Investment in 2006, to spearheading the global 2017 Climate Action 100+ initiative now involving more than 450 investors with more than $40 trillion in assets, we have been at the vanguard of a movement that is now redefining the practice of investing. Responsibility starts at home – with our behaviours, people and culture – and so, as a business, we must strive to meet the expectations that we have of others. The Federated Hermes Pledge places responsibility, integrity and client focus at the heart of everything our people do. As the world continues its fight against the coronavirus pandemic, investing responsibly matters more than ever. Indeed, we believe that it is the best way to sustain long-term outperformance and contribute to beneficial outcomes for investors, companies, society and the environment. We are pleased to submit this report in confirmation of our support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact after becoming a signatory in 2017. Our third Communication on Progress lays out our work in the last 12 months in each area of the Global Compact – Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti‑Corruption – and the outcomes we have seen. We would encourage other organisations to commit to collective action to advance the principles by signing up to the UN Global Compact. Yours sincerely, Saker Nusseibeh, CBE CEO, The international business of Federated Hermes August 2020 3 About the international business of It follows then that we are keenly aware of the need to lead by Federated Hermes example and act as a responsible firm ourselves. This is a far wider concept than just shareholder engagement. We operate Hermes Investment Management and Federated Investors by the Federated Hermes Code of Business Conduct and rebranded as Federated Hermes in February 2020. This was a Ethics, which requires all business to be conducted in natural step in the development of the two companies. Since accordance with the highest legal and ethical standards and Federated became the majority owner of Hermes in 2018, we all staff to adhere to the highest ethical standards at all times have been united by a shared commitment to client-centric in the conduct of their professional and personal affairs. responsible investment and long-term business growth. All activities previously carried out by Hermes Investment The Federated Hermes Pledge underpins our firm-wide Management now form the international business of commitment to always put clients first, and to act responsibly Federated Hermes. BT Pension Scheme retains a minority and transparently. It makes clear our commitments, stake in the international business of Federated Hermes, obligations and responsibilities as an organisation and as alongside members of the international business of Federated individuals. At the international business of Federated Hermes’ management. Hermes, the Pledge, which is voluntary, has been signed by 99% of employees to date. Federated Hermes is a global leader in active, responsible investment. We are guided by the conviction that responsible investing is the best way to create long-term wealth. We I pledge to fulfil, to the best of my ability and judgment provide specialised capabilities across equity, fixed income and in accordance with my role, this covenant: and private markets, in addition to multi-asset strategies and proven liquidity-management solutions. Through our worldA I will act ethically, responsibly and with integrity. leading stewardship services, we engage companies on A I will put the interests of our clients first, consistent with strategic and sustainability concerns to promote investors’ our fiduciary responsibilities. long-term performance and fiduciary interests. Our goals are A I will encourage responsible behaviour in the firms in to help individuals invest and retire better, to help clients which we invest and on which we engage. achieve better risk-adjusted returns, and, where possible, to contribute to positive outcomes in the wider world. As of A I will act with consideration for our community and the environment both now and in the future. I will 31 March 2020, Federated Hermes had £488bn assets under encourage others to do the same. management and £858bn assets under advice. A I will work with industry colleagues and other key We always strive to meet our legal and regulatory stakeholders to develop and improve our industry’s responsibilities, conducting our business with the highest contribution to society. standards of integrity and honesty, and we expect all A I will treat my clients, my colleagues and all other employees to maintain the same standards. We consider stakeholders with dignity and respect and as I would any failure to achieve these standards as a serious matter. wish to be treated. This Communication on Progress is made on behalf of the A I will deal with our regulators in an open, cooperative international business of Federated Hermes, including EOS and timely way. at Federated Hermes (‘EOS’), as a Participant of the UN A I will communicate clearly and honestly with all parties Global Compact. inside and outside our firm. A I will manage conflicts of interest fairly between Sustainable wealth creation all parties. At the international business of Federated Hermes, while our primary purpose is to help beneficiaries retire better by We recently published our inaugural Responsibility Report – providing world-class active investment management and an annual publication that provides clear information about stewardship services, we believe that our role goes further. our responsible business practices, our approach to responsible investing and our firm-wide advocacy activities. We believe that we have a duty to deliver holistic returns – Our Responsibility Office acts as a hub of expertise and outcomes for our clients that go far beyond the financial and support to assist every employee in our business to work consider the impact our decisions have on society, the towards our mission of delivering holistic returns: environment and the wider world. In doing so, we invest our clients’ capital to create wealth sustainably – aiming to deliver A It holds each department accountable for ensuring that we sustainable long-term growth, while at the same time helping act as a responsible firm and keeps the interests of clients to build a better society for all. and their beneficiaries at the centre of what we do. A It works with the Investment Office to ensure that our As an active investor, we believe we have an important role investment and engagement teams integrate stewardship to play in engaging companies to encourage responsible and ESG factors into their activities. business practices. As a result, we frequently engage A It develops and leads the implementation of our companies on a range of issues from accelerating the transition advocacy positions. to a net-zero carbon economy to good corporate governance and the protection of human rights in their workforces, supply chains and the communities in which they operate. 4 UN Global Compact Responsible investment in practice At the international business of Federated Hermes, we believe there are two mutually reinforcing strands of responsible investment management: responsible investment and responsible ownership. Within these strands, we aim to generate sustainable wealth creation for the end beneficiary – the investor – by striving to deliver both robust investment returns and positive social and environmental impact. Creating wealth sustainably Engagement We act as engaged stewards of the investments we manage or represent on behalf of our clients. Where we hold assets with significant ESG-related risk exposure, we will manage directly-owned assets – and engage with public and private companies – to mitigate this risk Awareness Integration Portfolio managers are aware of the Portfolio managers integrate ESG-related risk ESG-related risks in their considerations alongside other value and risk portfolios, which investments considerations, exploiting green investment are the largest contributors, and opportunities or divesting where ESG-related what are the associated risks and risk impacts value mitigation strategies Advocacy We engage with public policymakers and sector organisations, nationally and internationally, to encourage policy or best practice that facilitates the transition to a net-zero carbon economy We have been actively engaging with companies for over 20 Principles on Business and Human Rights, as well as relevant years, building a compelling story for responsible ownership. involvement in controversial weapons. This enables our clients Our engagement team, EOS, is a leading stewardship service to see where there may be risks in their portfolio, and review provider. Our engagement activities enable long-term company responses to these based on our engagement institutional investors to be more active owners of their assets, insights where possible. This information is typically used by through dialogue with companies on ESG issues. We believe third-party clients as an input into their exclusion processes. this is essential to build a global financial system that strives to deliver improved long-term returns for investors, as well as We dedicate resources to supporting the integration of ESG better, more sustainable outcomes for society. and engagement information in the investment decisions made by our publicand private-markets teams. This includes EOS represents £858bn of assets under advice (AuA) as of using proprietary tools that combine our own analytical ESG 31 March 2020 and in 2019 engaged with 1,043 companies data and engagement insights with research from external worldwide covering 2,854 environmental, social, governance, providers. The feedback loop from our engagements with strategy, risk and communication issues and objectives, and corporate boards and management teams is a hallmark of our made voting recommendations at over 10,584 company investment approach. Beyond the extensive meetings that meetings. Our team engages in active stewardship on behalf investment teams have with management each year, it is of clients, voting at annual general meetings and other further enabled by regular interactions between our fund shareholder gatherings to achieve our clients’ responsible managers and engagers, and especially by the company ownership aims and fulfil their fiduciary duty to be active meetings they jointly attend. The international business of owners. Our quarterly screening tool monitors our clients’ Federated Hermes generally favours engagement over portfolios to identify companies that violate or are at risk of exclusion, as we believe that having a seat at the table gives violating commonly accepted international norms and us greater power to influence than exclusion and divestment standards, including: UN Global Compact Principles, does. For our public-markets teams, ESG and engagement Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development data is considered in the context of the investment philosophy Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, UN Guiding of each strategy. Given the typically long holding periods and August 2020 5 concentrated nature of private-market investments, both ESG company dialogue. Yet some themes were more common data and engagement activities are strongly integrated than others. As all companies consume resources and employ throughout our real estate, infrastructure and direct lending people, it is perhaps no surprise that the SDGs relating to investment processes. This includes data and engagement resource efficiency and decent work were particularly relating to human rights, labour, environmental and prominent and will likely remain so. The relative share of our governance issues. activity in relation to each SDG, progress in engagement and ESG characteristics of the portfolio in 2019 are set out in the SDG Engagement Equity Annual Report with case studies Investing in the Sustainable Development throughout – and expanded through additional quarterly Goals (SDGs) company commentary notes – explaining how our Believing that good outcomes drive good business, we engagements with individual companies are creating change perceive sustainability and long-term profitability to be in support of specific SDGs. interconnected. As such, we aim to have a positive impact on – and through – the companies in which we invest. We aim to The SDG Engagement High Yield Credit strategy also seeks help them to create wealth more sustainably as a to achieve a meaningful social and/or environmental impact consequence of our engagement. as well as a compelling return by investing in high-yield bonds and engaging with their issuers to drive positive change in Delivering sustainable outcomes through stewardship is an line with relevant SDGs. objective for each and every investment product we manage. In addition, in recent years, we launched three impact This is a high conviction strategy that invests in high-yield strategies focused on investments connected to the SDGs. companies that demonstrate a willingness and ability to The first, Impact Opportunities (launched in late 2017), is a create positive change in society and/or environment whilst high-conviction strategy aiming to invest globally in companies improving their credit profiles. that are generating sustainable wealth through products and The strategy uses the SDGs as a framework for engagement. services that directly meet the underserved needs addressed Our engagements seek positive change that strengthens the by the UN SDGs. By focusing on companies exposed to these long-term performance of companies, sustaining both impact sources of enduring demand, the strategy seeks the growth and corporate profitability. We believe that bondholder leaders of tomorrow. The second, SDG Engagement Equity engagement supports the long-term viability and investment (also launched in late 2017), targets smaller companies across performance of businesses while also benefiting society and the globe with the potential – through engagement – to make the environment. The global high-yield market offers great a meaningful contribution towards the attainment of the SDGs, opportunities to identify companies with the willingness and via actions through their supply chain, their direct operations ability to change their operations, products or services in or indeed their products and services, with the end result order to generate additional benefits for society and the being a more sustainably successful business. In September environment. Some high-yield issuers are yet to focus on 2019, we launched SDG Engagement High Yield Credit, which creating positive change, enabling us to play an important aims to outperform the global high-yield market through highrole in their efforts to become impactful while also delivering conviction investment in companies with strong fundamentals attractive returns to investors. By investing and engaging to that also demonstrate the potential, through engagement, to create change, we seek tomorrow’s impact leaders rather than create positive change. focus on those of today. By respectively seeking present-day impact, and working with Our Impact Opportunities strategy aims to generate longcompanies to deliver positive change tomorrow, these distinct term outperformance by investing in companies succeeding capabilities show that sustainable investing remains core to in their core purpose: to generate value by creating positive our identity, purpose and growth strategy. Our company and sustainable change that addresses the underserved engagement goes hand-in-hand with our advocacy work, as needs of society and the environment. We have created our we seek to positively influence at the individual company level own SDG taxonomy, the addressable targets identified which and the markets in which they operate. feed into our nine impact themes: Water, Health and Our SDG Engagement Equity strategy targets both traditional Wellbeing, Financial Inclusion, Education, Energy Transition, financial performance goals as well as aiming for positive Future Mobility, Food Security, Circular Economy and Impact social and environmental change by engaging with Enablers. At their inception, the 17 SDGs were designed to companies to help deliver the SDGs. Our SDG-driven appeal to the broadest audience possible rather than being a engagement focuses on the full spectrum of a company’s framework for sustainable investment. The Federated Hermes operations and strategy, providing opportunities to create SDG Taxonomy therefore seeks to prove clear links between meaningful and lasting societal impacts. It is only through the 169 targets within the SDGs and potential investments in a engagement that investors can really understand a company’s logical and transparent way. It is a living body of research, impact and more pertinently catalyse or bring about positive enabling us to highlight clear opportunities today and adapt change. As in 2018, we engaged last year with companies on our findings as new information comes to light. It identifies issues relevant to all 17 SDGs having identified approximately investment opportunities directly connected to the underlying 40% of the 169 targets as being relevant to an investortargets of Goals 1 to 15. 6 UN Global Compact Delivering positive impact: the SDG Taxonomy Believing the SDGs can be a powerful way of identifying impactful companies, in 2019 we created the SDG Taxonomy – a living research project that clearly demonstrates clear connections between the underlying targets of the SDGs and investment opportunities. An example of how the taxonomy works Directly Product or Theory of Change SDG Goal SDG Target Impact risk investable service solution Issue Contribution 14: Conserve and 14.1: By 2025, Yes Waste collection As much as 40% Recycling allows Efficiency risks: sustainably use the prevent and and recycling. of the world for a closed-loop some recycling oceans, seas and significantly oceans are heavily system where processes have a marine resources reduce marine affected by human less resources high environmental for sustainable pollution of all activities, including are required from impact, especially development. kinds, in particular pollution, depleted the environment, when factoring from landfisheries, and loss thus limiting in energy needs, based activities, of coastal habitats, environmental which may be less including marine while over 3bn degradation. attractive than using debris and people depend on If managed virgin materials in nutrient pollution. marine and coastal sustainably, scarce some cases. biodiversity for their natural resources Execution risks: livelihoods. Marine can benefit disposal of nonpollution, such as current and future recyclable materials plastic packaging generations. While needs to be in oceans or the OECD recycling handled carefully fertiliser leaching average is only in order to not into rivers, has a 25%, countries such generate pollution. negative impact on as Germany or marine ecosystems, Taiwan are able to Stakeholder potentially reducing achieve the highest participation risks: biodiversity. recycling rates of working conditions above 55%. of staff and contractors may be problematic, especially in terms of health and safety. SDG: SDG target: Directly Product or Theory of Change: Impact risks: one of the UN’s an example of investable: service solution: describes in further detail the relevant outlines the 17 sustainable the 169 specific yes or no. goods and issues, as well as the potential for related unintended or development targets as outlined services that could investments to contribute positively. unexpected goals (SDGs). by the UN. help achieve actual or this particular potential negative SDG target. consequences of investment in the target area. Source: Federated Hermes, as at April 2020. For example, the SDG Taxonomy identifies SDG target 14.1 (as detailed above) as directly investable through public equities. Our Impact Opportunities portfolio has exposure to Tomra – a company that provides sensor-based solutions which help increase recycling rates – and so, it is strongly linked to target 14.1. To explore the SDG Taxonomy, use the following link: www.hermes-investment.com/ukw/sdg-taxonomy August 2020 7 This SDG Taxonomy ensures that the investment ideas of our We focus on positive placemaking by embedding social value Impact Opportunities strategy have full traceability back to and reducing our environmental impact through initiatives the underlying SDGs After this, impact must be assessed on which support the delivery of relevant SDGs though an idiosyncratic basis. We have developed an impact improvements and efficiencies in our real estate portfolio. assessment framework that centres on five key dimensions: nature, intentionality, additionality, balance and improvement Our decision to create an impactful intent framework was to ensure that a company contributes substantively to one or inspired by our previous efforts to develop common more of the SDGs, beyond a broad thematic alignment. Our definitions and guidelines that describe ‘impact’ for realImpact Opportunities 2018 Annual Impact Report provides estate investors. Using the SDGs as a reference point, we more detailed information about how we identify investment developed the framework as a way to further improve our and impact opportunities, our thematic and geographic approach to sustainable investment. exposures and a number of case studies including links to This initial impact framework has now been translated into specific SDGs. constructive action points for the investment strategies within The rest of this Communication on Progress focuses mainly on the real-estate offering focusing on three main themes: the policies, goals and outcomes shared across our strategies. A Meaningful placemaking; However, by nature of their focus on the SDGs, the three strategies listed above have additional activities and A Climate and resource efficiency; and, outcomes relevant to all of the UN Global Compact Principles. A Health and wellbeing. More information is available in the respective reporting of each strategy. After defining these three areas, we initiated a screening process to identify socioeconomic and environmental-impact In private markets, our Real Estate team has developed an targets for the portfolio. This process shed light on regional impactful investing approach, seeking ways to increase our needs and local environments, which enabled us to set impact through responsible property investment. By investing specific, measurable targets for each fund or mandate. for outperformance while aligning our strategy to the needs of society as it changes, rather than managing pure-play At the heart of our approach is our commitment to creating impact-investment products, we seek to deepen the practice the ‘meaningful city’ – or places that people want to live and of responsible investment. This means using a purposeful work in, and which foster a sense of belonging among framework to focus our real-estate operations around impact inhabitants. Because most of our investment is concentrated themes, and within these targeting activities with measurable in densely populated urban areas, it is inevitable that the way environmental, economic and societal impacts. Our Real we manage these developments will have a deep, longEstate impact themes are intended to support the delivery lasting effect on the cities and the people that live in them. of the SDGs. 8 UN Global Compact and commitment to respect and remedy human rights issues HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES reflect the strength of a company’s culture and risk management. For many companies, human-rights issues reside less in their own operations and more in their supply Principle 1 Businesses should chain, or potentially in the use of their products. support and respect the protection of The stewardship outcomes we seek in relation to human internationally proclaimed rights include respect for all human rights linked to a human rights; and company’s operations, products and supply chains, including through the provision of affordable essential goods and Principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human services to help reduce poverty. rights abuses. Responsible business At the international business of Federated Hermes, we are committed to running our business responsibly. Part of this Assessment, Policy and Goals means doing our best to encourage high standards in our Responsible investment supply chain and business. Our Modern Slavery Statement 2020 sets out our objective of ensuring that there is no As an active investor, we are defined by our commitment modern slavery or human trafficking in any of our business to deliver holistic returns for clients and their beneficiaries. dealings. It also describes the processes we have put in place We consider the social and environmental impact of the to help us achieve this objective, including our Supplier Code investments we make alongside the returns they may deliver. of Conduct and supplier due diligence checks. This is why we developed our Responsible Ownership Principles. These principles include expectations around Our procurement processes apply across all offices of the corporate governance, relationships with stakeholders, international business of Federated Hermes. We have a workers and human rights. Companies are expected to ensure Supplier Code of Conduct, available on our website, which that they respect the human rights of those affected by their we ask all new suppliers to sign. We expect new suppliers with operations and their value chains. They should develop plans more than £36m in turnover to supply us with their Modern to identify and manage these human-rights risks, in order to Slavery statements. We promote best practice for Sustainable encourage positive human-rights outcomes and minimise Procurement and ask suppliers for evidence of their adverse ones. At the very least, companies should not only sustainable procurement practices covering the following core obey the law but also respect the human rights of those areas: environmental, social, economic and governance. affected by their activities and be open about and prepared to discuss the impact of their activities. We encourage open communication, in keeping with the Federated Hermes Pledge, and regard integrity as a central Responsible ownership part of our beliefs. We encourage employees to bring any Human and labour rights underpin a company’s wider concerns to the attention of their immediate supervisor or corporate culture, business ethics and enterprise risk manager. To that effect, we have a Whistleblowing policy in management, which affect a company’s reputation and the accordance with the Public Interest Disclosure Act 1998 – also ability to create and preserve value over the long term. referred to as ‘The Whistleblowers’ Act’ in the UK and the Changes in regulations and government policies, such as Whistleblower program in the US – which stipulates that the UK Modern Slavery Act and the Dutch Child Labour Due employees are legally protected from dismissal or Diligence Law have set new minimum levels of obligation for unfavourable treatment by their employers as a result of companies to identify and report how they manage these risks. raising concerns. Examples of the type of concern which could be raised are internal fraud or breach of regulatory obligations In addition, the UN Guiding Principles on Business and (e.g. market abuse). Employees may also report such matters Human Rights set out international guidelines covering the directly to the Strategic Risk and Compliance Director or the identification of salient human rights in company operations Chairman of the international business of Federated Hermes. and supply chains and the range of actions to consider in order However, we recognise the difficulty in reporting through to respect and, where necessary remedy, human rights abuses. internal channels and that employees may prefer to remain anonymous. To that effect, we also provide several secure, Human rights remain a priority for EOS. The UN Guiding anonymous reporting routes via a hotline and online reporting. Principles on Business and Human Rights provide a global standard for addressing the risk of adverse human-rights practices linked to business activity and offer a framework for our engagement with companies in this area. The ability August 2020 9 Implementation provision of remedy to victims of modern slavery within their supply chain. This statement marked the launch of a threeResponsible investment year initiative to co-ordinate investor engagement with Research from our own Global Equities team demonstrates companies on modern slavery in their supply chains. that companies with good or improving ESG characteristics (those in the top decile) on average outperform companies Responsible business with negative characteristics (those in the lowest decile). We have considered how our business operations may be According to our research published in 2018, this is driven by affected by modern slavery issues. In 2019, we introduced the strength of their corporate governance and, for the first increased levels of due diligence to ensure we select suppliers time since our investigation began in 2014, social metrics. who can work with us to deliver a higher quality of service to Companies with poor or worsening social practices have our clients and who are aligned with our values. consistently underperformed their peers by 15bps a month since December 2008. This follows the same pattern we The basic due-diligence checks on all suppliers request previously observed for governance.1 information on the organisation’s policies, tax facilitation, basic finance and compliance checks and ask suppliers to Responsible ownership adhere to our Supplier Code of Conduct. As part of the basic The long-term outcomes EOS seeks in human rights due-diligence checks, all suppliers are screened by our engagements include: no company causing or contributing Compliance team as part of the onboarding process against to human or labour rights abuses whether in their own the various sanctions lists using Thomson Reuters Global operations or supply chain and effective remedy is provided in Screening Tool. In addition to screening against sanctions, case of any harms; access for all people to basic human needs suppliers are also screened against law enforcement, such as affordable nutritious food and healthcare; and full regulatory enforcement, politically exposed persons and respect for the human rights of all indigenous people adverse media. Suppliers’ details are saved on our system for including those living in high risk zones such as occupied ongoing screening, which is repeated periodically throughout territories. Near-term corporate objectives include: the our relationship with them. We ask all suppliers to complete development of a business model aligned to the elimination a tax facilitation questionnaire, and additional checks are of human and labour rights abuses including modern slavery; conducted on all suppliers based in the UK that have bank development of food product formulations that can support a accounts in another country, as part of our financial crime balanced diet; and the adoption of human rights policies and prevention procedures. procedures in line with UN Guiding Principles on Business and The next level up includes an additional questionnaire to Human Rights. give us clarity on subjects like risk management. We have an We have published multiple case studies relating to our additional third tier of enhanced due diligence targeting all engagement on human rights and labour principles, including levels of information security, which covers our critical and a focus on human rights in the supply chain in our EOS Public outsourcing suppliers. Our Compliance, Information Security, Engagement Report, published in July 2019. Finance and Legal teams work together to manage these checks. As part of the enhanced due diligence checks, we We are members of the Investor Alliance for Human Rights’ undertake enhanced oversight of certain service providers Advisory Group to develop an investor toolkit for human that are deemed to be material outsourcings. This includes rights, published in May 2020, which provides practical carrying out regular onsite due diligence visits to our material guidance for institutional investors in applying the UN and outsourcing suppliers. In 2018, we added modern slavery Guiding Principles throughout their risk management systems to the scope of issues to be examined as part of such due to assess and address risks to people involved with their diligence visits, including asking suppliers what steps they business, with a primary focus on investment activities. In take to identify areas of their business and supply chains 2019, EOS responded to the UK Home Office’s consultation where there is a risk of slavery and human trafficking taking on transparency in supply chains, which proposed changes to place, and the steps taken to assess and manage that risk. the Modern Slavery Act. We met with Home Office policy officers to express our support for the development of a government-endorsed central repository for Modern Slavery Measurement of outcmes statements, to facilitate investor engagement on this issue In 2019, EOS engaged on 2,854 issues and objectives. 21% of and hold companies to account. We signed the Find It Fix It the objectives and issues we engaged during the year were Prevent It Modern Slavery Investor Statement, which calls on on a social or ethical theme. Of this, 28% related to human UK-listed companies to: increase their efforts to identify rights. 128 out of 243 social engagement objectives were human trafficking, forced labour and modern slavery in their moved forward at least one milestone during the year. Further supply chains; review, assess and disclose the effectiveness information is available in the EOS 2019 Annual Review. of their attempts to address these issues; and support the 1 https://www.hermes-investment.com/uki/insight/equities/esg-investing-a-social-uprising/ 10 UN Global Compact In addition, the UN Guiding Principles on Business and LABOUR PRINCIPLES Human Rights set out international guidelines covering the identification of salient human rights in company operations and supply chains and the range of actions to consider in Principle 3 Businesses should uphold order to respect and, where necessary remedy, human the freedom of rights abuses. association and the effective recognition We seek human capital and labour rights in our stewardship, of the right to improving human capital and safeguarding labour rights to collective bargaining; achieve a healthy, skilled and productive workforce inclusive of the full diversity of wider society. Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and Social issues are the primary engagement focus of the SDG compulsory labour; Engagement Equity strategy. This is borne out of a recognition Principle 5 the effective abolition of that the primary tool at a company’s disposal is employment, child labour; and and the provision of decent work is the most direct way that Principle 6 the elimination of companies can lift people of poverty and support their discrimination in respect economic, physical and mental wellbeing. The strategy focus of employment and on both who companies are employing, for example the occupation. opportunity to target employment towards those most in need, and how companies employ, encompassing among other things the provision of a living wage to ensure workers This section should be read in combination with our are afforded a dignified life, and the employer’s investment in reporting above on the Human Rights Principles, their employee’s broader wellbeing and skills development. covering our efforts to eliminate forced, compulsory and child labour. Responsible business We are also committed to upholding the UNGC Labour Assessment, Policy and Goals Principles as a business and an employer. An overview of employee rights, responsibilities, policies and benefits is Responsible investment available to all employees in our Employee Handbook. This As an active investor we are defined by our commitment to includes a formal grievance procedure, available to all deliver holistic returns, which is why we have established our employees, should problems arise during the course of Responsible Ownership Principles. These principles include employment which cannot be resolved on an informal basis. expectations around relationships with stakeholders and, in particular, workers. The principles state that ‘The workforce We recognise that diversity in the workforce is one of our is a company’s most valuable asset and therefore a critical greatest assets and that an inclusive culture allows us to stakeholder. Companies must develop human capital continue to grow as a strong and innovative organisation, management strategies and objectives that ensure that delivering excellence for our clients. We are committed to everyone in their workforce is treated with dignity and treating everyone with whom we work fairly, and with dignity respect and should help each person develop their potential. and respect, as well as providing an environment which is free Companies should use their influence on their suppliers to from harassment and discrimination, as is reinforced in our encourage and, where possible, ensure similar outcomes. Such Equal Opportunities policy. This includes all our employees human capital strategies will help companies to deliver greater and staff (present, future and past) together with all of our value for their shareholders and for the people that work for other stakeholders, clients and service providers. them.’ We have an articulated set of behaviours innate to our culture that contribute to the success of the business. Our fiduciary Responsible ownership heritage and expertise in responsible investment ensure that Social issues are one of the core engagement themes of EOS our clients’ interests come first and that we support positive which include: conduct, culture and ethics; human capital change in the wider world. The way we behave and perform management; and human and labour rights. Human and internally creates the environment that we need to ensure we labour rights underpin a company’s wider corporate culture, maintain our commitments to clients, to each other and to the business ethics and enterprise risk management, which affect wider world. Our Behaviour Framework sets out the behaviours a company’s reputation and the ability to create and preserve that are the visible manifestations of our Pledge and that value over the long term. Changes in regulations and influence every aspect of daily life at the international business government policies, such as the UK Modern Slavery Act of Federated Hermes. Employee end-of-year performance and the Dutch Child Labour Due Diligence Law have set ratings are based on the extent to which they have new minimum levels of obligation for companies to identify demonstrated these behaviours as well as the extent to and report how they manage these risks. which they have met their performance objectives. August 2020 11 In addition, it is the responsibility of every leader and manager are at risk of violating commonly accepted international norms at the international business of Federated Hermes to create an and standards, including the UN Global Compact Principles. environment where all of our people can give their best, feel Investment teams supplement this information with companyvalued and be able to build upon their knowledge and skills. specific research utilising a range of sources to understand a We offer a number of management-development programmes company’s approach towards its workforce and any potential in order to train and upskill managers in managing impact on, for example, productivity. performance and behaviour. In managing real-estate assets, we believe that good human As reported in our Gender Pay Report, and in line with our capital management, including the provision of fair living Women in Finance Charter commitments, we have measured wages, robust health and safety practices and investment in the proportion of male and female staff, and set ourselves training and development programmes, is the foundation of gender-diversity targets. In order to set stretching and realistic a stable and productive workforce and the maintenance of targets we took a balanced view of our ability to move towards businesses’ social licences to operate. As described at the gender parity, taking into consideration the rate of natural beginning of this report, our Real Estate team has developed turnover in the business, future hiring needs and the an impactful investing approach, seeking ways to increase our availability of a diverse talent pool in certain sectors of the impact as outlined in our Responsible Property Investment industry. We will continue the positive work we have Report. Our impact themes are intended to support the accomplished to date, including widening access to the delivery of the SDGs. As part of our urban regeneration theme, profession, with the ultimate ambition of achieving gender we consider skills development and job growth. Labour and parity across the whole business. skills has been identified as one of three potential impact themes to be further developed in the future. Our Real Estate Since 2012, the international business of Federated Hermes team has an extensive risk and safety programme which has been accredited as a Living Wage employer, affirming its identifies improvements required and measures outcomes commitment to provide all employees and on-site contracted to ensure labour protection and occupier safety on all of staff in the UK with compensation and benefits at or above the our sites. London Living Wage. As an accredited employer, we ensure that all UK employees are paid at a minimum the London We included specific references to the Modern Slavery Act in Living Wage which is an hourly rate, set independently every all of our property management agreements, covering the year. As part of our accreditation as a London Living Wage whole of our managed portfolio, when we renewed them in employer, we also contractually require our service providers early 2018. Since September 2016, we have also included a who have staff working onsite in the London office to pay the clause specifically relating to the Modern Slavery Act in almost London Living Wage or more. This ensures that all employees all new lease agreements that we have entered into. All of our and contractors can meet the costs of living in London. construction documents, including project team appointments and construction agreements, also now contain specific It is the policy of the international business of Federated mention of the Modern Slavery Act, requiring compliance Hermes to take all reasonable practical steps to ensure health, with all relevant legislation. safety and welfare at work for all its employees in accordance with general statutory obligations. This includes training Responsible ownership First Aiders and Fire Marshalls on each floor. Health-andWe engage on critical human rights and labour issues safety training is undertaken as part of the employeeincluding eradicating forced labour and child labour in supply induction programme. chains, promoting access to medicine and nutrition, and As described in the human rights section above, if an protecting the rights of indigenous people. The long-term employee were to have a concern related to labour, the outcomes EOS seeks in such engagements include: no whistleblowing policy would enable them to raise their company causing or contributing to human or labour rights concerns or seek advice. abuses whether in their own operations or supply chain and effective remedy is provided in case of any harms; access for all people to basic human needs such as affordable nutritious Implementation food and healthcare; and full respect for the human rights of Responsible investment all indigenous people including those living in high risk zones such as occupied territories. Near-term corporate objectives All our public-markets investment teams have access to our include: the development of a business model aligned to the ESG Dashboard and ESG Portfolio Monitor through which elimination of human and labour rights abuses including information on metrics such as employee turnover, health and modern slavery; development of food product formulations safety performance and fatalities are provided. This Dashboard that can support a balanced diet; and the adoption of human also includes the information from EOS’ quarterly screening rights policies and procedures in line with UN Guiding tool described above that identifies companies that violate or Principles on Business and Human Rights. 12 UN Global Compact Through public policy and best practice we are supporting the 2019 was an exciting year for our diversity and inclusion development of a definition and publication of a living wage agenda. We formally launched our Inclusion Strategy at the across different geographies/supply chains; helping promote end of 2018, and in 2019 we began work on several of the best practices in responsible raw materials sourcing across actions outlined in our three-year plan. As part of our plan, we exposed supply chains such as consumer goods and have established an Inclusion Committee consisting of senior electronics, including in cobalt supply chains via the role models across the business who are advocates for the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development Inclusion Strategy and driving change. In addition, we are and the Responsible Business Alliance; and contributing to the delighted to have already made progress against our Women development of the Investor Alliance for Human Rights’ Toolkit in Finance Charter targets, bringing our firm-wide figure up to on the Investor Responsibility to Respect Human Rights. 42%, and are therefore currently on track to achieve our targets by 2021. This can be attributed to attracting female talent at Our Modern Slavery Statement 2020 includes a case study of our senior management levels. our engagement with Kuala Lumpur Kepong Berhad (KLK). EOS began engaging with KLK on this topic in February of In addition to our ongoing and business as usual work 2012. KLK has strengthened its labour standards and supporting diversity in all forms, over the past year we have disclosure, following allegations of deforestation and poor made progress in the following areas: labour standards in 2012 and 2013. We have published additional case studies relating to human and labour rights A Employee engagement – conducted inclusion focus engagement. These include a case study of our engagement groups and an employee engagement survey to understand our strengths and areas for development. with Fast Retailing – which has made significant improvements in managing human rights risks in its supply chain and on other A Inclusive leadership training – piloted inclusive leadership sustainability risks following investor engagement – and training for all Executive Directors followed by a further another of our engagement with G4S – which has come a long rollout to all line managers. way to achieve this since EOS began engaging with the A Policy review – the Hermes Fund Managers Limited Board company in 2009 on health and safety management, with reviewed and approved improvements to the Family significant improvements to its health and safety standards Friendly Policy which will be rolled out in 2020, in order to and performance. enhance the international business of Federated Hermes’ ability to be an employer of first choice. The long-term outcomes we seek in relation to human capital management are: equal representation and inclusion A Agile working – relaunched our flexible working policy as agile working to promote a greater agile working culture throughout the organisation across all dimensions of diversity; throughout the firm. fair wages and benefits paid so all employees can afford a decent standard of living; and zero serious work injuries. NearA Inclusive recruitment – developed an inclusive recruitment term corporate objectives include: a strategy and action plan programme which focuses on steps hiring managers to close the gender pay gap; the implementation of a can take to minimise bias in the recruitment process. In minimum real living wage across operations and the supply addition, we refreshed our recruitment preferred supplier chain or evidence of an equivalent total reward package list to ensure we are working with agencies that value diversity and inclusion. similarly valued by employees; and development and implementation of a human capital management strategy for Our mission is to continue to foster, develop and promote the promotion of best-practice physical and mental wellbeing a culture of inclusion which celebrates all forms of diversity, in the workplace. We support government-backed initiatives enables our employees to maximise their potential, and to increase the diversity of executive management, such as via encourages innovation and creativity, to ensure we are an the local chapter of the 30% Club, with a focus on developing employer of choice, support our wider responsibility aims, markets. We will also support stakeholder collaboration to and seek to deliver the best holistic returns for our clients and define useful standards, through active contribution to wider society. We are committed to treating everyone fairly initiatives such as the Workforce Disclosure Initiative and and with dignity and respect. This includes all our employees the US Human Capital Management Coalition. (past, present and future) together with all other stakeholders, clients and service providers. Responsible business As an employer, the international business of Federated Unity, our employee network, promotes an inclusive culture Hermes offers a range of benefits to support the wellbeing and has continued to lead initiatives across a range of issues, of its employees, including private medical insurance cover, including Wellness Week and Federated Hermes Pride health assessments, an employee assistance programme, week, demonstrating support of inclusion and diversity financial wellbeing seminars and a Cycle to Work scheme. in the workplace. August 2020 13 Measurement of outcomes A Under-representation of women in senior roles – we know Through our development activities we have created and can see evidence from our pay quartiles that we have more men in our senior and therefore more highly paid significant social and economic growth in a number of our Real roles. While this is an industry-wide issue, it shows we need Estate construction projects. This has been achieved through to do more to attract and develop our female talent into creating construction jobs, apprenticeships, local supply chain more senior roles. spend. For example, in 2019 with completion of Wellington Place in Leeds, we enabled 100 apprenticeships with a lifetime A The effect of part-time working – the regulations require earnings uplift of £6.1m and 300 Leeds residents were bonus (but not pay) calculations to be based on the actual employed during construction through our development hours worked, without taking into account pro-rating for activities. This includes £150m-worth of construction spending part-time working. A greater percentage of our part-time and £30m of spending on local subcontractors. workforce are women (74%), and while we absolutely welcome part-time and all forms of flexible working As we expand our reporting to cover the eight social hubs through our agile working policy, we know this means we identified for real estate placemaking initiatives, we are need to do more to encourage men to take advantage developing a comparative framework which will enable us of the policy and promote a family-friendly and flexible to clearly measure and analyse the positive impact the culture for all. investment on social infrastructure has on the local economy Over the next year, we plan to focus on the following actions and social infrastructure. We have already commissioned and initiatives, driven from the feedback obtained through our several reports to measure the social and economic outcomes employee engagement survey: of these placemaking initiatives, including for Wellington Place, Leeds. A Performance and remuneration processes – examining our performance and remuneration processes for unconscious In 2019, EOS engaged on 2,854 issues and objectives. 21% of bias and identifying improvements which promote a more the objectives and issues we engaged during the year were on inclusive process. a social theme. Of this, 21% related to diversity, 25% to human A Talent pipelines and development – creating talent capital management and 8% to labour rights. 128 out of 243 pipelines which focus on the development and support social engagement objectives were moved forward at least we offer our people. one milestone during the year. Further information is available in the EOS 2019 Annual Review. A Data collection – developing more extensive and robust data-collection processes so that we can analyse data As reported in our Gender Pay Report in March 2020, the across the employee lifecycle and set measurable international business of Federated Hermes’ pay gap remains objectives. at 27%. Our analysis has shown that our pay and bonus gaps A Recruitment training and targeted recruitment schemes are largely driven by the following factors: – educating hiring managers on how to make our recruitment processes more inclusive and expand our A Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) – after Federated Investors, access to diverse talent. Inc. acquired of a majority stake in Hermes effective 1 July 2018 (and prior to their rebrand to Federated Hermes, Inc), A Respect training – launching respect training and making both the Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) and the Bonus available to all staff to improve our working culture through Deferral Plan vested earlier than their due date as per increasing awareness and understanding of different the scheme rules. This led to a one-off payment in 2018 personality styles and employees’ wellbeing. included in our gender pay figures. These would otherwise have been paid equally over the remaining years under the plan. If we remove the effect of LTIP pay-outs from our figures, our mean bonus gap drops from 68.4% to 62.7%. 14 UN Global Compact We assess climate risks on how they will affect us in the short ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES (zero to two years), medium (two to five years) and long term (five years and beyond). More detail is available on the risks we have identified in our 2019 Climate-Related Financial Principle 7 Businesses should Disclosures Report. support a precautionary approach to The climate-related risk and opportunities management environmental activities we are implementing cover our public equities, challenges; credit, and private real-estate assets. Our approach has four elements: Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater A Awareness: portfolio managers are aware of the climateenvironmental related risks in their portfolios, which investments are the responsibility; and largest contributors, and what are the associated risks and Principle 9 encourage the mitigation strategies. development and A Integration: portfolio managers integrate climatediffusion of related risk considerations alongside other value and risk environmentally friendly considerations, exploiting green investment opportunities technologies. or divesting when climate-related risk, alongside other factors, impacts value. A Engagement: we act as engaged stewards of the investments we manage or represent on behalf of our clients. Where we hold assets with significant climateAssessment, Policy and Goals related risk exposure, we will manage directly owned We have published our strategy for managing carbon and assets, and engage with public and private companies, climate risk on an annual basis since 2015, most recently in to mitigate the climate-related risk. our 2019 Climate-Related Financial Disclosures Report. A Advocacy: We engage with public policymakers and While the responsibility for implementing our approach resides sector organisations, nationally and internationally, to encourage policy or best practice that facilitates the with all personnel, we have a number of structures and teams transition to a low-carbon economy. in place to ensure that we effectively discharge our responsibilities, including those around climate change Over the last four years, we have reviewed and refined risks and opportunities. our approach and continued to implement it across our investment and stewardship activities, taking account of the We have a well-established governance structure that is led by specific challenges faced by each investment strategy and the Board. Among the responsibilities residing with the Board different asset classes and learning from our experiences and is the formulation of our corporate strategy, namely, to be the industry best practice. We are now in the process of designing world’s leading provider of long-term holistic returns for savers, and implementing a strengthened climate strategy for 2020. thus creating value for all stakeholders in the financial system. As we deepen our understanding, we aim to further integrate Progress on ESG and engagement integration, including climate change into our risk management systems, including climate-related impacts, is communicated to, and discussed through developing and integrating scenario analysis into by, the Board and executive committee on a regular basis our existing processes and assessing our alignment to the through updates from the Head of Policy & Advocacy. Paris Agreement. The Climate Change Working Group, chaired by our Head In our engagement, EOS seeks for all companies to have a of Policy and Advocacy, supports the business by developing business model consistent with net-zero emissions and an a detailed understanding on how to integrate further climate effective transition plan to achieve this by 2050. This includes risk and opportunity into management processes though building a circular economy with effective governance and climate management frameworks, and by furthering our management of natural resources and biodiversity, reducing analysis of carbon and climate risks by monitoring and water stress, sustainable food systems and managing harmful reporting implications. pollution and waste, whether from operations or supply chains. Responsible investment and ownership Our Real Estate team’s responsible property development and We have a formal approach to climate-related risk and refurbishment guidance sets out a series of guidelines and opportunities management, which integrates assessing and principles for our project and development managers to follow managing our exposure to climate-related risks and access to ensure a consistency of approach to sustainable opportunities from the transition to a low-carbon economy. refurbishment and development. It takes a start to finish The integration of this approach is shared by the investment approach, utilising key RIBA Stages and following BREEAM teams and across the firm with the support of the principles, which adopts sustainable methods of construction Responsibility Office and the dedicated Climate with the ultimate aim of delivering an operationally efficient Change Working Group. and sustainable building or refurbishment. Monitoring of key August 2020 15 sustainability deliverables is undertaken and mandatory EOS has also taken an active role on the Climate 100+ completion of both Initial and Final Responsible Property initiative. Climate Action 100+ is a major global investor Development Action Plans is expected and monitored. initiative, launched in 2017, that aims to help limit global warming to less than 2°C by engaging with more than 100 of Responsible business the world’s biggest greenhouse gas (GHG) emitters. These We have a written environmental policy to demonstrate systemically important emitters account for two thirds of global commitment as a business to conducting our operations in an industrial emissions every year. The initiative engages with a environmentally responsible manner and to govern internal further 60 or so companies that have a significant opportunity operations. Our Environmental Management System group to drive the clean energy transition. EOS is leading or comeet quarterly to discuss how to reduce the environmental leading the engagement on 27 companies. The initiative, footprint of our office. which is scheduled to last five years, has had some notable success. Significant progress has been seen across a range of We promote best practice for sustainable procurement and industries, many of which are among the most challenging to ask suppliers for evidence of their sustainable procurement decarbonise. Examples of focus companies making substantial practices covering the following core areas: environmental, net zero commitments over just the past seven months alone social, economic and governance. include: Heidelberg Cement, Duke Energy, Nestle, Daimler, VW, Thyssenkrupp, ArcelorMittal, BHP Billiton, Centrica and Saint-Gobain. However, despite these examples of first-wave Implementation leadership, analysis shows a significant step change is still Responsible investment required from the majority of focus companies in addressing climate change as a strategic business risk. Further action is We have enhanced our proprietary ESG Dashboard to needed to drive the necessary changes at these companies. include more indicators on climate risks and opportunities in companies, using third-party data from Trucost and The role of policymakers is key in determining the investment Sustainalytics as well as engagement insights from EOS. risks and opportunities created by climate change. We engage with public policy makers and sector organisations, nationally In listed markets, one element of the climate risk management or internationally, to promote policy or best practice. We are process is our internal proprietary “Carbon Tool”, launched in active members of, among others, the Institutional Investors 2018 to help portfolio managers and engagers alike easily Group on Climate Change, Climate Action 100+ and the access information on carbon risk in our portfolios, and the Carbon Disclosure Project. We contributed to the Green carbon risk of the individual companies in the portfolios Finance Strategy (through our work on the Green Finance themselves. It is able to calculate some of the potential Taskforce), which has stated that disclosures in line with the financial impacts of climate change, such as the profit at risk in recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related an investment fund under different carbon pricing and policy Financial Disclosures (TCFD) will become mandatory for scenarios. Importantly, this helps identify companies that are asset owners and large listed companies in 2022. priorities for engagement and their progress against objectives. More detail on how we use this tool is available in We have continued to engage extensively over the past year our 2019 Climate-Related Financial Disclosures Report. with public policy makers and sector organisations on this issue. The international business of Federated Hermes was We also use external tools including the 2 Degrees Investing among the signatories of a letter in 2019 to Theresa May, then Initiative’s PACTA tool, the Transition Pathway Initiative Prime Minister, calling for a 2050 net-zero carbon target, which Benchmarks, the Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) the UK has now adopted as a policy, with cross-party support. scenario analysis tool, and the Science Based Targets We have also been instrumental in creating a positive coalition Assessments. of industry players supporting the development of EU rules on ESG and climate-related investor disclosure and a Responsible ownership strengthened UK Stewardship Code 2020. We have been Engagement is a crucial element of our climate change active supporters both in the press and behind the scenes. management approach. Climate is a specific engagement We are members of the FCA-PRA Climate Financial Risk focus in EOS’ engagement programme. Engagement enables Forum, which was set up “to build capacity and share best us to raise risks and controversies with company boards and practice across financial regulators and industry to advance demand action to address them. It also helps us to learn more financial sector responses to the financial risks from climate about how companies are developing strategy and business change”. Our CEO, Saker Nusseibeh, chairs the Disclosures plans to seize the opportunities as well as manage the risks Working Group, which was tasked with producing practical that come from a changing climate and public policy and guidance for financial institutions on disclosing climate-related market responses to it. As described above, we use our carbon financial risk. The guidance, published in June 2020, builds on tool to identify companies with which we should initiate or the recommendations of the TCFD, as well as regulatory intensify carbon-focused engagement, and to gauge the level developments and other current good practice. of carbon risk within portfolios and the progress we have achieved through engagement. 16 UN Global Compact Environmental engagement by EOS also covers natural focus on placemaking where we see an opportunity to bring resource stewardship, and the long-term outcomes it seeks together climate and environment risk with the other drivers include: no net loss and the long-term rehabilitation of all land of future performance. We take a disciplined approach to forms such as tropical forests; sustainable food systems, measuring factors such as energy and water consumption, including supply and demand that supports a growing global and we have specific tools to reduce those inputs. population with a healthy diet; and access to clean water for all. For example, in 2016, the international business of Federated Hermes and managing agent Jones Lang LaSalle Near-term corporate objectives include: encouraging (JLL) engaged sustainability consultants, Carbon Credentials companies to set strategies for high impact feedstock such (now Carbon Intelligence), to implement an energy-efficient as soy or palm oil from sustainable sources; development and tenant-friendly programme across our portfolio. The soofa long-term sustainable food sourcing strategy including called Collaborative Asset Performance Programme (CAPP) diversification from animal to plant based protein to meet aimed to optimise technology while engaging with shifting consumer preferences; and ambitious strategies stakeholders to cut energy use and improve the comfort to manage water use, especially in water stressed areas to levels of building occupants. maintain operational resilience and a social licence to operate. In 2018, we broadened those goals to integrate both the Through public policy and best practice we continue to industry standard BREEAM In-Use green-building certification support the evolution of the CDP water initiative in its move and the RESET air-quality certification to form a process towards more streamlined and sector-relevant water reporting. dubbed CAPP+. The project team applied the CAPP+ process We will continue engagement collaboration with the FAIRR to our Great George Street property, a prominent and longnetwork on sustainable use of antibiotics within animal farming established office building in the heart of Westminster. To and protein diversification. We will support and help develop date, the integrated CAPP+ programme and BMS robust and trustworthy sustainable agriculture-related optimisation has led to lower internal CO2 levels and a accreditation standards such as the Roundtable on significant improvement in energy performance. In seven other Sustainable Palm Oil and Fair Trade. properties, which we identified as energy intensive, we have cut emissions by 44% since 2014 through measures such as Pollution, waste and circular economy is another engagement upgrading lighting to LEDs, engaging with tenants and focus of EOS and the long-term outcomes it seeks include: the adjusting plant times. prevention of contamination of the environment by harmful substances; the establishment of fully circular business models In 2019, along with 22 other early signatories, we joined the which capture all materials, leading to zero waste; and the Better Building Partnership Climate Change Commitment to avoidance of all industrial disasters such as oil spills, nuclear achieve net zero across real estate portfolios by 2050. Through accidents and dam failures. this commitment we are looking to define and publish our Net Zero Pathway in 2020. We continue to develop and implement Near-term corporate objectives include: development and initiatives across our real-estate portfolio designed to reduce implementation of best-practice strategies for harmful carbon emissions and improve efficiencies in our built substance management or catastrophic spills; development of environment portfolio, utilising new technology and best closed-loop strategies to reduce net consumption of materials practice gleaned from our active engagement in peer-group through smart product design and innovation; and the use of benchmarking. We continue to review and update internal substitute materials that can be easily recycled or reused and procedures to help inform design, operations and have lower environmental impacts. management to align with our net-zero pathway works. Through public policy and best practice we seek to improve As the health and wellbeing of occupiers becomes an investor engagement on plastics by: consolidating investor increasingly important consideration, we are ensuring that the expectations for each of the plastics and packaging portfolio is wellbeing resilient. This will ensure that our assets manufacturers, consumer goods and retail sectors; promote wellbeing, improve productivity and provide inclusive encouraging sign up to the Ellen MacArthur Foundation spaces to ensure occupier satisfaction and investment security New Plastics Economy Global Commitment; and encouraging in spaces mining companies to follow best-practice tailings management and other pollution controls of the Responsible business International Council on Mining and Metals. We hold the ISO 14001 accreditation in our offices which In private markets, we actively manage real-estate assets and reflects the deliberate steps we took to improve the engage to improve environmental performance and occupier environmental impact when we fitted them out. We offset wellbeing. We have integrated climate factors into our active our corporate travel and other carbon emissions by asset management and sustainable development and partnering with Trees for Cities. refurbishment activities since 2008. We have an increased August 2020 17 Measurement of outcomes emitters. We also continued work on reducing pollution We have now undertaken GHG footprinting for 88% of our and encouraging waste management and circular-economy assets under management, as at the end of 2019. We use data practices. 195 out of 361 environmental engagement from various sources in order to understand the company’s objectives were moved forward at least one milestone during exposure to risks arising from climate change. The range of the year. Further information is available in the EOS 2019 metrics and targets have been selected on the basis of what Annual Review. is most appropriate to our business and to the asset classes We have measured our operational electricity use and carbon we manage. emissions since 2010. More recently, we have started to We track the carbon footprint and weighted average carbon measure our travel emissions, starting with flights and, in 2018, intensity (WACI) of our equity and credit portfolios and these adding rail travel emissions. This year is the first year we are are shown in our 2019 Climate-Related Financial Disclosures reporting on both our operational and travel emissions. While Report. In addition, we compare our equity WACI with the we saw an 8% fall in building electricity and carbon emissions MSCI world index. The analysis includes scope 1 and 2 between 2018 and 2019, we saw travel emissions almost emissions. Despite being backward looking data, this provides quadruple. This substantive growth between 2018 to 2019 a good proxy for assessing the exposure of our assets to is due to the additional transatlantic travel necessitated by carbon risk. We use the market capitalisation ownership and Federated Investors (now Federated Hermes, Inc.) acquiring enterprise value method for calculating the carbon footprint a majority stake in Hermes Investment Management (now of our equity and credit assets under management. the international business of Federated Hermes). As the integration of the two firms’ operations matures, we would Our Responsible Property Investment Report publicly discloses expect our travel emissions to fall again. However, clearly environmental and social outcomes for our Real Estate funds. action needs to be taken to reduce these emissions. In 2020, For example, in 2006 we set a target to reduce the carbon we plan to introduce a new travel policy aiming to reverse emissions from our Real Estate portfolio by 40% by 2020. By this trend. the end of 2019 we had achieved but also beat this target by 25.45%, despite there being an expansion of the portfolio from For every tonne of GHG emissions that we generate from our 105 to 175 buildings. This is the second consecutive year we day-to-day operations and our business travel, we purchase have demonstrated reductions beyond the targets set for verified carbon offset from Trees for Cities, which guarantees 2020. Information on progress against such targets can be an equivalent amount of GHG emissions are reduced in the found in our Responsible Property Investment report. atmosphere. In 2018, our offsets of 834.5 tonnes of CO2e were generated by planting 2,229 trees in order to ensure that 557 EOS engages extensively on environmental issues. In 2019, trees, the amount required to offset the specified quantity of EOS engaged on 2,854 issues and objectives. 31% of the CO2e, are in a healthy condition after 100 years. The planting objectives and issues we engaged during the year were on took place over three sites and the trees, as well as offsetting an environmental theme. Climate change continued to be carbon emissions, provide important environmental benefits a major focus, leading or co-leading engagement at including increased biodiversity, improved resilience to 27 companies as part of the Climate Action 100+, the changes in climate, flood alleviation and mitigation of air collaborative engagement initiative representing $40tn of pollution. We have also achieved ISO 14001 accreditation assets, which targets the top 100 systemically important in our offices. 18 UN Global Compact A 4th Money Laundering Directive 2017 ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES A Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 A The Bribery Act 2010 Principle 10 Businesses should work A Joint Money Laundering Steering Group Guidance Notes against corruption in all its forms, including A Financial Conduct Authority Handbook extortion and bribery. A The United States Patriot Act and Bank Secrecy Act A Criminal Finances Act 2017 A Cayman Islands Proceeds of Crime Law (2017 Revision) Assessment, Policy and Goals A Cayman Islands Anti Money Laundering Regulations (2018 Revision) Responsible investment We believe that effectively combating bribery and corruption In addition to policies on conflicts of interest and outside are essential for the long-term sustainability of companies and business interests, the international business of Federated as an active investor we are defined by our commitment to Hermes has established a financial-crime framework which deliver holistic returns, which is why we have established our identifies, mitigates and manages the risks that we face Responsible Ownership Principles. This document highlights whereby the international business of Federated Hermes’ our expectations from companies on their culture, values and products and services might be involved in or used to facilitate behaviour where we look to our investee companies to nourish financial crime. Our Financial Crime Policy covers a wide range a strong ethical culture and ensure employees are acting of topics, including: cohesively in line with the company values. – Anti-money laundering and counter terrorist financing Responsible ownership – Anti-bribery and corruption Social issues are one of the core engagement themes of EOS – Fraud which include: conduct, culture and ethics; human capital – Financial sanctions management; and human and labour rights. We expect – Suspicious activity reporting companies to put their customers first and treat their key stakeholders fairly and with respect, to pay tax commensurate – Breaches of the financial crime policy with the value added in each jurisdiction and to operate – Financial crime training without bribery or corruption. Through our public-policy work we encourage the enactment of strong anti-bribery and corruption legislation. Implementation Responsible investment Responsible business All our public-markets investment teams have access to our The international business of Federated Hermes has controls ESG Dashboard and ESG Portfolio Monitor through which in place to prevent bribery, corruption, tax evasion and fraud. information on any controversies are provided. This Dashboard This is managed by our Compliance team. Our Strategic Risk also includes the information from EOS’ quarterly screening and Compliance Director sits on our Executive Committee. tool describes above that identifies companies that violate or We also have a Risk and Compliance Committee, currently are at risk of violating commonly accepted international norms comprising four Non-Executive Directors and one employee and standards, including the UN Global Compact Principles. of our parent company Federated Hermes, Inc. Our teams also have access to our newly launched Corporate Governance Tool, which assesses a company along several The international business of Federated Hermes has a zerosignificant governance characteristics and flags those areas tolerance approach to corruption. We have in place a financialwhere the company falls short of our governance expectations crime policy and procedures that provide an effective control for companies. Rather than providing yet another score, the framework within which we comply with applicable legislation tool helps our fund managers to focus their own, fundamental and regulatory requirements, including but not limited to: governance research on those areas where companies have a A The Money Laundering Regulations 2017 discrepancy compared to our governance expectations. Good governance practices are generally an indication of a wellA Terrorist Act 2000 (as amended by the Anti-Terrorism, managed company which enforces ethical behaviour. Crime and Security Act 2001, the Terrorism Act 2006 and the Terrorism Act 2000 and Proceeds of Crime Act 2002 Investment teams supplement this information with company(Amendment) Regulations 2007) specific research utilising a range of sources to understand a A Proceeds of Crime Act 2002 (as amended by the Crime company’s approach towards its workforce and any potential and Courts Act 2013 and the Serious Crime Act 2015) impact on, for example, productivity. August 2020 19 Responsible ownership All new staff members must undergo initial compliance Through engagement, EOS seeks: corporate decision-making training within two weeks of joining the firm. Training covers taken through an ethical lens, with an end to corporate bribery the content of the Financial Crime Policy and employees are and corruption; the ethical use of data; and fair tax paid, also required to read the policy upon joining the firm. Existing putting an end to tax arbitrage and aggressive tax avoidance. employees of the international business of Federated Hermes, Through its public policy and best-practice work, we support including senior management, are required to complete the development of market best practices recommended by compliance training on an on-going basis. Additional training reputable corporate ethics organisations such as the Institute may be provided depending on the risk associated with of Business Ethics and anti-bribery and corruption specific roles. organisations such as Transparency International. As described in the human rights section above, the Near-term corporate objectives which EOS seeks include: international business of Federated Hermes encourages a public statement and board responsibility to aspire to open communication, in keeping with the Federated Hermes the highest ethical standards; disclosure of principles for the Pledge, and regards integrity as a central part of its beliefs. effective management of artificial intelligence, together with a We encourage employees to bring any concerns to the clear action plan to implement policies on data ethics, security attention of their immediate supervisor or manager. If an and privacy issues; and a policy commitment to pay tax in each employee were to have a concern related to corruption, country in line with the spirit and intention of the law. the whistleblowing policy would enable them to raise their concerns or seek advice. Responsible business Measurement of outcomes The international business of Federated Hermes will take appropriate action (including seeking prosecution and The international business of Federated Hermes’ Financial notifying relevant regulators) against any person in Crime program is subject to independent review by the employment who is involved or assists in committing internal audit function. The results of the review are presented a financial crime. to senior management for review and appropriate action is taken. The previous Internal Audit of Compliance was Checks are carried out for each client in accordance with their conducted in November and December of 2017, and the risk rating. The international business of Federated Hermes’ report was distributed in December 2017. The next Internal clients are screened via the Refinitiv Global Screening Tool, Audit of Compliance is currently underway. The Compliance which checks against the following: Monitoring team also review our Financial Crime Program as part of their risk-based monitoring plan. In addition, A Law enforcement Compliance provide a report on the Financial Crime Program A Regulatory enforcement to senior management on a periodic basis. On an annual basis, our Money Laundering Reporting Officer provides a report to A Sanctions the Board and senior management to demonstrate that the A Politically exposed persons international business of Federated Hermes has established A Adverse media and maintains effective systems and controls for compliance with applicable financial crime requirements and standards No monies can be accepted until the client due-diligence under the regulatory system, and to counter the risk that the checks have been completed. international business of Federated Hermes might potentially be used to further financial crime. Federated Hermes Federated Hermes is a global leader in active, responsible investing. Guided by our conviction that responsible investing is the best way to create long-term wealth, we provide specialised capabilities across equity, fixed income and private markets, multi-asset and liquidity management strategies, and world-leading stewardship. Our goals are to help people invest and retire better, to help clients achieve better risk-adjusted returns, and to contribute to positive outcomes that benefit the wider world. All activities previously carried out by Hermes now form the international business of Federated Hermes. Our brand has evolved, but we still offer the same distinct investment propositions and pioneering responsible investment and stewardship services for which we are renowned – in addition to important new strategies from the entire group. Our investment and stewardship capabilities: Active equities: global and regional Fixed income: across regions, sectors and the yield curve Liquidity: solutions driven by four decades of experience Private markets: real estate, infrastructure, private equity and debt Stewardship: corporate engagement, proxy voting, policy advocacy For more information, visit www.hermes-investment.com or connect with us on social media: The value of investments and income from them may go down as well as up, and you may not get back the original amount invested. Past performance is not a reliable indicator of future results. For professional investors only. This is a marketing communication. The views and opinions contained herein are those of the Responsibility team at the international business of Federated Hermes and may not necessarily represent views expressed or reflected in other communications, strategies or products. The information herein is believed to be reliable, but Federated Hermes does not warrant its completeness or accuracy. No responsibility can be accepted for errors of fact or opinion. This material is not intended to provide and should not be relied on for accounting, legal or tax advice, or investment recommendations. This document has no regard to the specific investment objectives, financial situation or particular needs of any specific recipient. This document is published solely for informational purposes and is not to be construed as a solicitation or an offer to buy or sell any securities or related financial instruments. Figures, unless otherwise indicated, are sourced from Federated Hermes. This document is not investment research and is available to any investment firm wishing to receive it. The distribution of the information contained in this document in certain jurisdictions may be restricted and, accordingly, persons into whose possession this document comes are required to make themselves aware of and to observe such restrictions. BD005883 00009194 07/20
