Environment & Safety Department, DOWA Holdings 22F, Akihabara UDX., 4-14-1 Sotokanda, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo, 101-0021 Japan TEL：03-6847-1104 FAX：03-6847-1277 ht tps:/ /www.d o w a .c o .jp CSR REPORT This report uses forest certified paper and vegetable oil ink that is environmentally friendly. 2 019 Corporate Philosophy & Chronology D O W A h elp s t o c rea te a n a ﬄu en t, Switches to a holding company system and 2018 r e cy cl i ng or i ent ed soci ety throu gh i ts The platinum the corporate name is changed to DOWA The copper product and tin electroplating business group metal HOLDINGS expands in China bus i n e s s ac t i v i t i es worldwi de. recycling business Focus on core 2018 begins businesses & The heat treatment business 1991 global expansion Kosaka expands in the U.S. for Based on our corporate philosophy, the DOWA Group works Growth Smelting & automobiles on solving social issues through our business activities, A waste treatment Capital participation in Tizapa Zinc Mine in Mexico The heat treatment business 2006 Reﬁning begins 2016 The heat business develops in an Indian heat The recycling operation of together with seriously meeting the expectations of all our Odate, Akita treatment operation begins in business expands a recycling metal Prefecture company begins the U.S. in China plating stakeholders, including customers, shareholders, investors, furnace 1986 business 1991 1994 1997 2003 2008 begins in suppliers, local communities and employees. Mexico 1983 Compound semiconductors 1989 1992 1996 2000 2002 2007 2009 2015 2017 The metal recycling Production of The soil Copper product Copper The environThe heat water manufacturing begins The Los Gatos metal-ceramic remediation processing base is product mental treatment business begins Mine project Magnetic powder for tape manufacturing management business circuit boards business begins established in begins in manufacturing begins for electronic & recycling begins in begins China Mexico components business Mexico expands Transformation expands in Environmental A waste treatment Reorganization Southeast Asia management & business begins in the Yanahara area 1977 The environmental manageof the business structure begins recycling business Production of metal ment and recycling compounds and chemicals business begins at full scale Heat treatment begins in Honjo, Saitama business Prefecture 1973 Electronic materials business Tokyo Heat 1973 Treatment Co.,Ltd. Production of becomes a Okayama Works is Electroplating business begins reduced iron subsidiary established 1971 powder begins Akita Zinc is established to operate a seaside zinc smelter 1968 1965 1958 1953 Suceeds ﬂotation of black ore at the Hanaoka Mine Mill High quality iron oxide 1930 manufacturing begins 1967 New ﬂash furnace begins Table of contents 1959 1957 Expansion operations in Kosaka New deposits are Toyosaki discovered at the Plant Co,.Ltd. Corporate Philosophy & Chronology ……… 1 Nonferrous metals business Kosaka Mine becomes a Expansion of Metal processing business subsidiary business areas Message from the Company President …… 3 Operations of Government sells the pyrometallurgy for Toyosaki Rolling Mill About the DOWA Group ……………………… 7 Kosaka Mine black ore begins in is established Kosaka Five Business Areas ………………………… 13 Our Materiality and Medium-Term CSR Goals …… 19 History 1884 1898 1919 CSR Policy and Plan ………………………… 21 Corporate Governance ……………………… 23 Safety …………………………………………… 31 Environment …………………………………… 37 Social …………………………………………… 45 Formation 1908 1915-16 1928 Founding The Kosaka Railway is opened Acquires the Hanaoka Mine and Toyosaki site is renamed Editorial Policy and Business Sites Subject to Tabulation ……… 57 of the Toyosaki Plant Co., Ltd. Builds the foundation of (Kosaka Odate) Yanahara Mine Opinion of a Third Party …………………… 58 group the business with world-ﬁrst technological development 1 2 TOP MESSAGE Message from the Company President To All Stakeholders We will continue to contribute to the realization of a sustainable society through the evolution of our main business while dealing with all stakeholders with sincerity and openness. DOWA HOLDINGS CO., LTD. President and Representative Director SEKIGUCHI Akira 3 4 We have focused on solving various social issues by carrying on and developing our founding spirit. Towards the Realization of a contributing to the realization of a sustainable Creating a Culture of Human Sustainably Society society as our most important mission. Resource Development Our company was founded in 1884 as a At mines overseas, we are also building We provide a work environment in which mining business. We have changed our symbiotic relationships with local each employee can feel worthwhile and exhibit business in line with the progress of society, communities through such things as dialogue their abilities. and currently have an environmental with the local communities, protecting water I wish to gain the trust and satisfaction of all management & recycling business, nonferrous resources and ecosystems, managing dumps our customers and shareholders as a group metals business, electronic materials business, and tailing dams, soil covering, planting to where all employees share the corporate metal processing business and heat treatment increase greenery, planting trees, constructing philosophy and fulﬁll the mission as “one business. schools and hospitals, improving the team” . In their respective areas, these ﬁve educational and medical environment by At present, we are continuing to create a businesses support various initiatives to solve arranging teachers and medical staﬀs, culture of human resource development where several social issues facing modern society. As developing infrastructure such as electricity everyone can grow in each of our oﬃces, a matter of course, we are involved in the and roads, and creating jobs. following on from Akita Zinc, which has been development of material recycling and the recognized with “Youth Yell certiﬁcation” from detoxiﬁcation and reduction of hazardous Respect for International Norms Japan’s Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare, waste. For example, in electric vehicles which Since 2009, the DOWA Group has and the “Good Career Company Award” . are expanding globally as an environmental participated in the UN Global Compact with its We ﬁrmly support such autonomous initiatives solution, our high-performance copper alloy 10 principles in the four ﬁelds of human through cross-sectional human resource and metal-ceramic circuit boards are used in rights, labor, environment and development and a fair evaluation system, and the high-voltage terminalsand power modules anti-corruption.Going forward, we will are building a foundation for growth respectively. In addition, we provide materials continue to support the UN Global Compact, throughout the company. and technologies such as high-performance and in cooperation with our suppliers and We will continue to meet the expectations of silver nanoparticles for semicondutor die supply destinations, we will strenghthen CSR all our stakeholders through the creation of attach and advanced surface treatment for throughout the whole supply chain, together new value. We look forward to receiving your expendable parts. with sincere engagement. honest feedback. In the nonferrous metals business, which is In addition, we have contributed for a long the cornerstone of our company, we utilize our time to the building of a circular society based DOWA HOLDINGS CO., LTD. unique technology and know-how, and with on our corporate philosophy. Incorporating President and Representative Director compact equipment that can eﬃciently the principles of the “Sustainable Development SEKIGUCHI Akira recover and reﬁne an unprecedented variety Goals (SDGs)” adopted at the UN General of valuable metals, we provide them around Assembly in September 2015, we will create the world. more integrated value in areas where the Since our founding, we always believe that DOWA Group can contribute through our consideration of society and the environment business, regardless of whether it is ﬁnancial is essential in our business, and we will keep or non-ﬁnancial. 5 6 About the DOWA Group Corporate proﬁle, oﬃces and group companies (as of March 31st, 2019) Corporate name DOWA HOLDINGS CO., LTD. Chairman and Representative Director YAMADA Masao Representatives President and Representative Director SEKIGUCHI Akira Date of establishment 11-Mar-37 Head oﬃce location 22F, Akihabara UDX., 4-14-1 Sotokanda, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo, 101-0021 Japan Capital 36.437 billion yen Aﬃliated companies 82 consolidated subsidiaries and 18 equity-method aﬃliated companies Overseas Japan ❶❷❸❹ ❺❻❼❽ ❾ ❾ ❶18 11 13 ❽ 12 ❸❹ 17 ❷ 19 ❺❻❼ DOWA ECO-SYSTEM CO., LTD. AKITA RECYCLE & FINEPACK CO., LTD. DOWA THERMOENGINEERING CO., LTD. AKITA ZINC CO., LTD. Hamamatsu plant ❶ GREEN FILL KOSAKA CO., LTD. AKITA ZINC SOLUTIONS CO., LTD. DOWA THERMOENGINEERING CO., LTD. ❷ ECO-SYSTEM RECYCLING CO., LTD. AKITA RARE METALS CO., LTD. Hamamatsu-kita plant Northern Japan plant AKITA ZINC RECYCLING CO., LTD. DOWA THERMOENGINEERING CO., LTD. DOWA ECO-SYSTEM CO., LTD. DOWA METALTECH CO., LTD. ❸ ECO-SYSTEM KOSAKA CO., LTD. Acids Co. Ltd. Chukyo Handa plant ❹ AUTO RECYCLE AKITA CO., LTD. ❶ DOWA ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT CO., LTD. (China) 18DOWA ADVANCED MATERIALS (SHANGHAI) CO., LTD. (China) ZINC EXCEL CO., LTD. DOWA THERMOENGINEERING CO., LTD. ❺ Environmental Technology R & D Center ❷ PT. PRASADHA PAMUNAH LIMBAH INDUSTRI (Indonesia) 19DOWA NEW MATERIALS (SHANGHAI) CO., LTD. (China) Shiga plant ❻ ECO-SYSTEM AKITA CO., LTD. 20DOWA METALTECH (THAILAND) CO., LTD. (Thailand) DOWA ELECTRONICS MATERIALS CO., LTD. CEMM CO., LTD. ❸ TECHNOCHEM ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLEX PTE. LTD. (Singapore) ❼ ECO-SYSTEM HANAOKA CO., LTD. TONETSU KOHSAN CO., LTD. ❹ DOWA ECO-SYSTEM SINGAPORE PTE. LTD. (Singapore) Dowa Precision (Thailand) Co., Ltd. (Thailand) ❽ ECO-RECYCLE CO., LTD. Semiconductor Materials Laboratory ❺ WASTE MANAGEMENT SIAM LTD. (Thailand) DOWA LI PRECISION CO., LTD. (Taiwan) ❾ DOWA TSUUN CO., LTD. DOWA SEMICONDUCTOR AKITA CO., LTD. 10MELTEC IWAKI CO., LTD. Electronics Materials Laboratory Headquarters and others ❻ BANGPOO ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLEX LTD. (Thailand) DOWA METALTECH MEXICO, S.A. de C.V. (Mexico) 11MELTEC LTD. DOWA F-Tec CO., LTD. DOWA TECHNO RESEARCH CO., LTD. ❼ EASTERN SEABOARD ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLEX CO., LTD. DOWA THERMO TECH CO., LTD. 12ECO-SYSTEM RECYCLING CO., LTD. Advanced Fine Materials Laboratory UNEKURA MINING CO., LTD. (Thailand) DOWA THT AMERICA, INC. (America) East Japan plant DOWA ELECTRONICS MATERIALS AKITA ENGINEERING CO., LTD. ❽ GOLDEN DOWA ECO-SYSTEM MYANMAR COMPANY LIMITED 13ECO-SYSTEM JAPAN CO., LTD. OKAYAMA CO., LTD. DOWA TECHNOLOGY CO., LTD. KUNSHAN DOWA THERMO FURNACE CO., LTD. (China) (Myanmar) 14GEOTECHNOS CO., LTD. DOWA IP CREATION CO., LTD. Kanto Techno center DOWA Thermotech (Thailand) Co., Ltd. (Thailand) 15E&E Solutions Inc. Headquarter HIGHTEMP FURNACES LTD. (India) 16ECO-SYSTEM CHIBA CO., LTD. DOWA METALTECH CO., LTD. DOWA Group Nagoya Branch PT. DOWA THERMOTECH INDONESIA (Indonesia) 17ECO-SYSTEM SANYO CO., LTD. NEW NIPPON BRASS CO., LTD. DOWA Group Osaka Branch DOWA METALS & MINING CO., LTD. PT. DOWA THERMOTECH FURNACES (Indonesia) 18OKAYAMA KOYU CO., LTD. HOEI SHOJI CO., LTD. DOWA TECHNOLOGY CO., LTD. ❾ Vancouver Oﬃce (Canada) DOWA THERMOTECH MEXICO, S.A. DE C.V. (Mexico) 19ECO-SYSTEM RECYCLING CO., LTD. DOWA HIGHTECH CO., LTD. Seibu Techno center 10Cariboo Copper Corporation (Canada) West Japan plant DOWA POWER DEVICE CO., LTD. DOWA TECHNO ENGINEERING CO., LTD. DOWA THERMOTECH NORTH CAROLINA, INC. (America) 20ECO-SYSTEM OKAYAMA CO., LTD. Technology center YOWA ENGINEERING CO., LTD. 11NIPPON PGM AMERICA, INC.(America) Headquarters and others BIODIESEL OKAYAMA CO., LTD. DOWA METAL CO., LTD. DOWA KOHSAN CO., LTD. 12Mexico oﬃce KOWA SEIKO CO., LTD. DOWA INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION (America) DOWA METANIX CO., LTD. DOWA Group Kyushu Branch 13MINERA TIZAPA, S.A. DE C.V. (Mexico) Act-B Recycling Co., Ltd. TOKUYAMA-DOWA POWER Nippon PGM Europe s.r.o. (Czech Republic) DOWA INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION San Jose branch (America) MATERIALS CO., LTD. DOWA METALS & MINING (THAILAND) CO., LTD. (Thailand) DOWA HOLDINGS (SHANGHAI) CO., LTD. (China) DOWA METALS & MINING CO., LTD. DOWA THERMO TECH CO., LTD. 16KEY METAL REFINING, LLC (America) DOWA HOLDINGS (SHANGHAI) CO., LTD. Shenzhen branch (China) Metallurgical Laboratory 17DOWA METALS & MINING AMERICA INC. (America) DOWA HD Europe GmbH (Germany) DOWA THERMOENGINEERING CO., LTD. Mooka plant KOSAKA SMELTING & REFINING CO., LTD. DOWA HOLDINGS (THAILAND) CO., LTD. (Thailand) DOWA THERMOENGINEERING CO., LTD. Ohta plant NIPPON PGM CO., LTD. 7 8 Financial Information Non-Financial Information Freshwater No. of 4,529 186 243 1,095 13,024 9,691 Sales Operating proﬁt Ordinary proﬁt CO2 emissions consumption employees 100 million yen 100 million yen 100 million yen thousand tons 1,000㎥ Man (100 million yen) (100 million yen) (100 million yen) （thousand tons） (1,000㎥) （Man） Domestic Overseas Domestic Overseas 9,335 9,691 5,000 500 500 1,500 16,000 10,000 4,642 4,547 4,529 9,091 420 14,400 8,700 8,894 4,065 4,105 390 14,000 4,000 400 400 365 363 1,200 1,111 1,118 1,121 1,095 14,000 8,000 350 13,248 350 339 1,047 12,692 13,024 309 3,000 300 300 900 12,000 6,000 243 2,000 200 186 200 600 10,000 4,000 1,000 100 100 300 8,000 2,000 0 0 0 0 0 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) (FY) (FY) (FY) (FY) (FY) Current net proﬁt attributable to parent company 149 100 million yen Amount of Research & Accidents at 6.3 shareholders capital development work frequency Number who took Rate of paid 2.79 33 70.0 ＲＯＥ investment expenses rate childcare leave vacation taken 240 58 ％ Vacation notiﬁcation Man Man % 100 million yen 100 million yen Rate of paid vacation taken Current net proﬁt Avg. no. of vacation days taken (100 million yen) ROE （%） (100 million yen) (100 million yen) （Man） （Man） Women Men （%） （Day） 300 30.0 300 100 3.0 50 100 20 265 2.79 265 261 246 246 240 2.5 218 229 80 2.27 40 80 2.1 34 33 70.0 200 20.0 200 2.0 63.0 65.6 172 59.0 60.5 15.4 60 53 55 56 53 58 1.67 1.74 30 28 60 0 149 1.5 15 11.4 12.6 10.8 14 40 20 40 16 16 13 13 100 10.0 100 1.0 6.3 12 12 20 10 20 0.5 0 0.0 0 0 0.0 0 0 10 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) (FY) (FY) (FY) (FY) (FY) • Figures for each ﬁscal year are as of March 31st, 2019. • CO2 emissions are the total of direct emissions from fuel use, and indirect emissions from energy sources, such as electricity, both in Japan and overseas, and do not include the amount of CO2 generated from waste received. 9 10 ●FY 2019 Plan In FY 2019, while costs for such things as electricity and depreciation are rising, in addition to a rebound in purchasing conditions for smelting raw material, and the elimination of transient factors, we will promote initiatives to increase proﬁts year-on-year via increased sales of existing and new products through the eﬀect of measures in the Midterm Plan 2020. With regards to forecasts for FY 2019 (ending March 2020), we are planning on sales increasing 27 billion Midterm Plan 2020 yen year-on-year to 480 billion yen, operating proﬁt increasing 5.8 billion yen year-on-year to 24.5 billion yen, ordinary proﬁt increasing 5.6 billion yen year-on-year to 30 billion yen, and current net proﬁt attributable to Towards the Realization of Our Vision Continued growth parent company shareholders increasing 5.0 billion yen year-on-year to 20 billion yen. Going forward, we will steadily carry out each measure and strengthen our business foundation for growth. Under the“Midterm Plan 2020”, which started in April 2018, we Active investment in are working for further growth by strengthening our basic business management resources base and actively investing in management resources. Strong and ﬂexible business base ● State of progress for the “Midterm Plan 2020” Close-Up In FY 2018, the ﬁrst year of the Midterm Plan 2020, proﬁts declined year-on-year due to a worsening in Development of near-infrared LED chips with global top-class output purchase conditions for smelting raw materials, and a decrease in demand for electronic materials. Despite not reaching the planned goals, under the basic policies of “expanding business in growth markets” and DOWA ELECTRONICS MATERIALS CO., LTD. “strengthening the competitiveness of existing businesses” in order to achieve growth from a medium-term In 2018, DOWA Electronics Materials succeeded in developing a near-infrared LED chip with perspective, we have steadily implemented various measures, such as opening overseas locations and increasing global top-class output of 6.8mW*1, 3.5 times more than our existing product in the center the processing capacity of production bases. wavelength 1,300 nm range. Change in the Business Environment Optical sensors using LEDs have excellent features such as small size, power-saving ability and 2018 2019 Midterm Plan 2020 Results Forecast Positive Factors long life, and are used in a variety of applications. The light source of optical sensors has a wide Operating proﬁt (FY 2020) ・Increase in metal prices (midterm plan assumption range of light wavelengths from infrared to visible light and ultraviolet light, and each has diﬀerent (100 mln yen) 186 245 450 copper 5,500$/t and zinc 2,700$/t) properties. However, within this, since near infrared light with a wavelength range of 800 nm to Ordinary proﬁt (FY 2020) ・Increased collection of automobile shredder dust and 2,000 nm has the feature of high permeability for living organisms, it is being advanced in the 243 300 (100 mln yen) 500 discarded home appliances against a background of stronger environmental regulations in Japan and analysis of crops and food, and medical and healthcare applications* 2 . Particularly in the ROE (%) (End of FY 2020) 6.3 8.0 overseas healthcare ﬁeld, where the market is expected to expand, by using LEDs in sensors, it is expected Over 12 that the measurement of the blood glucose level could be realized without the need for drawing (End of FY 2020) Negative Factors ROA (%) 5.1 6.0 blood. Over 10 ・Stronger yen (midterm plan assumption 115 yen / $) The newly developed near-infrared LED chip with a Operating CF (3-year total) (2-year total) ・Rising costs such as electricity costs and the unit (100 mln yen) 1,200 725 price of materials center wavelength of 1,300 nm has signiﬁcantly improved Investment and ・Decreased proﬁt for low-concentration PCB waste optical output in the direction of the upper surface, (3-year total) (2-year total) lending 830 treatment which is important as a sensor, while balancing the usual (100 mln yen) 1,100 ・Change in the business environment for LEDs and Research & (3-year total) (2-year total) silver powder trade-oﬀ between high output and miniaturization. development (100 mln yen) 200 131 ・Delay in the launch of new product markets by the DOWA Electronics Materials has already begun to electronic materials department provide samples, and they are preparing a development system that can ﬂexibly meet various needs such as the customization of wavelength ranges. In the future these technologies will also be developed to the center wavelengths of the 1,450 nm and 1,650 nm range to 1,300 nm range near-infrared LED chips Environmental expand our lineup. Implementation Management & Recycling Nonferrous Metals Status of Main Expanded processing capacity for Promoted construction of the ※1：350μm angular size, and an output value when direct current 100mA is applied at room temperature Measures low-concentration PCB waste, and strengthened the melting and Los Gatos Mine (Mexico), and increased production capacity ※2：Wavelength range and types of light & main applications recycling business at the Thai zinc processing base Wavelength range of high permeability for living organisms 800 2,000 Wavelength 280 325 340 400 750 1,000 2,500 3,000 5,000 8,000 (nm) Electronic Materials Metal Processing Heat Treatment Near Types of Deep ultraviolet ultraviolet Violet Green Blue Yellow Orange Red Near infrared Middle infrared Far infrared Got customer recognition for Established a copper product and tin Opened an industrial furnace light UVC UVB UVA Visible Light NIR SWIR MWIR LWIR conductive atomized powder electroplating processing base in maintenance base in the U.S., and Sterilization Skin treatment Lighting Blood oxygen Proximity Healthcare and started shipment of China built two new plants in India sensors sensors Applications sensors near-infrared LED samples Resin curing Decorative illumination Freshness sensors 11 12 Five Business Areas[ Recycling-Oriented Business Model Centered on Metals ] Environmental Management & The DOWA Group is building a unique recycling-oriented business model centered on metals by Recycling linking our ﬁve core businesses. In the“environmental management & recycling business”, we detoxify DOWA ECO-SYSTEM waste and separate and recover metals from used products. The recovered metal is used as raw material for smelting. In the“nonferrous metals business”, we extract useful metals from various recyclable raw Deploys a wide range of services in Japan and Waste Treatment materials in addition to the natural resource of ore. Through the“electronic materials business”,“metal overseas, from waste collection and transportation to Business intermediate treatment and landﬁll disposal processing business” and “heat treatment business”, these metals become materials with the added value of function by various processes such as high-puriﬁcation treatment, electroplating treatment and Soil Remediation Provides total support from investigation of soil surface treatment. Products that pass from the manufacturer to the consumer are eventually used up, Business contamination to remediation work and monitoring leading to a recycling system that again recovers metals through the “environmental management & recycling business”. Recovers valuable metals from the scrap of the Recycling Eco-System Sanyo production process at factories, and from used Business products such as electrical appliances and automobiles low-concentration PCB ﬁxed-bed furnace Clients (Manufacturing Plants) Consumers Business Strategies ●Increase competitiveness of existing businesses to establish a position as No. 1 in Asia and accelerate increase in market share and launch new businesses in each ﬁeld and region. Environmental ●Build the foundation of new businesses that will be the next mainstay businesses in light of Management & Recycling global trends in environmental management. Heat Treatment Recycling-Oriented DOWA THERMOTECH Business Model DOWA ECO-SYSTEM Centered on Metals Situation in FY 2018 Initiatives for Growth The waste treatment business aims to expand the Sales YOY +5% 104.4 billion yen treatment of refractory waste, including Metal Processing Smelting Operating low-concentration PCB waste, by working to proﬁt YOY +14% 5.6 billion yen DOWA METALS & MINING strengthen cost competitiveness. In addition, we DOWA METALTECH Ordinary YOY +10% will strengthen the collection of waste to expand proﬁt 6.2 billion yen melting and recycling. In Southeast Asia, we will Electronic Materials expand the processing of hazardous waste in DOWA ELECTRONICS Thailand. In Indonesia and Thailand, we will also Value Provided MATERIALS Value Provided Amid the steady growth of waste generation in establish and expand waste treatment facilities to Japan and Southeast Asia, the waste treatment Adding of Value for Advanced Resource Recycling Through expand our business. business worked to increase processing capacity, Metal Materials Collaboration Between Businesses The soil remediation business will expand orders and the volume of waste treatment was generally due to a remediation method that handles naturally the same as the previous ﬁscal year. contaminated soil, and will promote the The soil remediation business worked to expand establishment and expansion of landﬁll sites in orders through a new remediation method that Japan. handles naturally contaminated soil. The recycling business will work to expand global The recycling business expanded the amount of collection of recyclable raw materials. In automobile For Solar Panels For Automotive Parts For Automotive Parts Base & Precious Metals, etc. waste electronic circuit that were collected, which recycling and home appliance recycling, we will Silver Powder Copper Products Atmosphere Heat Recovered Elements are recyclable raw materials for our smelters, and Treatment Furnace continue full operation of dismantling and sorting increased the processing volume for automobile locations, which will lead to the promotion of Global Share No.1 Domestic Share No.1 Domestic Share No.1 Over 20 Kinds recycling and home appliance recycling. processing. (Research by DOWA) FY 2018 Results & Plans (Ordinary Proﬁt) (100 million yen) Instead of business collaboration as part of the manufacturing process, there are multiple loops and 100 100 networks in a chain of recycling, and each business is building an organic structure to take advantage of each other. For example, in the“nonferrous metals business”, there is the loop of Akita Zinc, which 80 Ratio of Sales is a zinc smelter, and Kosaka Smelting & Reﬁning, which does recycle smelting. Since byproducts 68 23.1％ 62 generated during the production of zinc are used as raw materials for recycle smelting, more types of 60 57 metals are recovered and a process that does not generate waste is realized. In addition, after recovering metals from waste generated from each business, the “environmental management & 40 recycling business”plays an important role as group-wide infrastructure by having incineration plants and disposal sites that handle it properly. Our strength lies in the fact that business collaboration 20 functions as a means to create greater value in this process of recycling. ※Excluding adjustments 0 2016 2017 2018 2020 13 Plan 14 Nonferrous Metals Electronic Materials DOWA METALS & MINING Los Gatos Mine Nano silver powder DOWA ELECTRONICS MATERIALS Precious Metal & One of the world’s leading recycling smelters that can recover various metals including gold, Semiconductor Leading manufacturer of high-purity gallium-indium semiconductor materials, compound Copper Business silver, and copper Business semiconductor wafers and high-brightness and high-power LEDs Recycles platinum group metals such as platinum from used catalysts for cleaning automobile Electronic Manufactures and sells conductive powders used in solar panels and electronic components, PGM Business exhaust materials business including silver powder with the top market share With a focus on Akita Zinc, the largest zinc smelter in Japan, uniform business development Functional Materials Manufactures and sells functional powders used in magnetic powder and high temperature Zinc Business from resource development to base metal production and sales of processed products products, including particulate magnetic powder with the top market share Business Business Strategy Business Strategies ●Launch new businesses, develop new niche/top products, and make them ●Strengthen the business by deepening the functions in the smelting and recycling major sources of earnings. complex. ●Further expand business areas to growth markets such as automobiles, medical treatment and healthcare. Situation in FY 2018 Initiatives for Growth Situation in FY 2018 Initiatives for Growth In the precious metal & copper business, Kosaka Sales YOY +2% 2,216billion yen Smelting & Reﬁning will strengthen its ability to Sales YOY -16% 649billion yen The semiconductor business will develop new handle a variety of raw materials, such as LEDs for healthcare equipment and freshness Operating YOY -94% 5billion yen Operating proﬁt recyclable materials. In addition, we will increase YOY -61% 21billion yen sensors, and aims for mass production. proﬁt production by improving the actual yield and The electronic materials business will work to Ordinary YOY -64% 46billion yen Ordinary proﬁt increasing the purity of tin. YOY -49% 31billion yen expand sales of silver powder that meets the need The PGM (platinum group metals) business will proﬁt for thinner new solar panels with high power work to expand collection and sampling locations generation eﬃciency, and conductive atomized The precious metal & copper business worked to overseas for used catalysts for cleaning automobile exhaust in order to expand the collection of raw In the semiconductor business, demand for LEDs powder for electronic components such as condensers. improve the extraction of tin, a metal byproduct. for smartphones decreased. The functional materials business will work to materials. For the PGM (platinum group metals) business, the In order to increase zinc production, the zinc business In the electronic materials business, demand for expand sales of magnetic powder for amount of metals recovered from used catalysts for will promote the establishment of a 220,000-ton silver powder for solar panels decreased in the next-generation archival data tapes, and fuel cell cleaning automobile exhaust fell short of annual production system by constructing equipment Chinese market. materials. expectations. to remove impurities from raw materials. In addition, Inventory adjustment for magnetic powders for Research and development will respond quickly to The zinc business was aﬀected by worsening mine we will increase the production capacity of our archival data tapes continued in the functional the rapidly changing needs of the electronic materials purchasing conditions and rising electricity prices. processing plant in Thailand and strengthen sales to Southeast Asia, a growing region. Due to the materials business. For early commercialization of market, and work on early commercialization of On the other hand, for the Los Gatos project, new products, research and development expenses new products, such as improving the characteristics start of the Los Gatos silver, zinc and lead project, which is to ensure long-term raw material stability we will promote long-term and stable procurement increased for deep ultraviolet LEDs for sterilization of deep ultraviolet LEDs for sterilization applications, for our smelters, construction work is progressing of raw materials for our smelters. In addition, with applications, and nano silver powder for and mass-producing nano silver powder for smoothly as planned, and it started operation in the steady advancement of exploration activities in semiconductor bonding materials. semiconductor bonding materials, and will expand the summer of 2019. the Palmer zinc and copper project in Canada, we our areas of business. aim to further stabilize raw material procurement. FY 2018 Results & Plans (Ordinary Proﬁt) FY 2018 Results & Plans (Ordinary Proﬁt) (100 million yen) (100 million yen) 150 120 150 105 130 100 122 Ratio of Sales Ratio of Sales 80 48.9％ 14.3％ 100 68 60 61 46 40 50 31 20 ※Excluding adjustments ※Excluding adjustments 0 0 2016 2017 2018 2020 2016 2017 2018 2020 Plan 15 Plan 16 Metal Processing Heat Treatment DOWA METALTECH DOWA METALTECH MEXICO DOWA THERMOTECH HIGHTEMP FURNACES アーメダバード工場（インド） Copper Rolled Manufactures copper, brass and copper alloy strips, and brass rods and forged products used for Products Business terminals and connectors for automobiles and semiconductors Industrial Furnace Utilizing know-how of heat treatment processing, provides total service from heat treatment Business furnace facility design to start-up and maintenance. Electroplating Precious electroplating processing for automotive parts such as connectors and switches Business Heat Treatment Surface processing treatment to improve wear resistance, fatigue resistance and seizing Metal-Ceramics Manufactures metal-ceramic substrates used for power control equipment such as industrial Processing Business resistance of metal parts such as automobile engines and transmissions Substrate Business machinery Business Strategies Business Strategies ●Expand businesses by focusing eﬀorts on the automobiles and IoT-related ﬁelds. ●Increase revenues further by taking advantage of the strengths of the current ●Increase earning potential further by establishing a business base that is resistant business model. to changes in the business environment. ●Pursue initiatives in new business domains. Situation in FY 2018 Initiatives for Growth Situation in FY 2018 Initiatives for Growth Sales YOY +2% 920billion yen The copper rolled products business will promote Sales YOY +5% 297billion yen The industrial furnace business will expand its sales of high-performance copper alloys in product lineup to capture demand from auto parts Operating YOY -14% response to increasing electriﬁcation and intelligence in Operating manufacturers in Japan and overseas. In addition, proﬁt 62billion yen proﬁt YOY -7% 24billion yen automobiles, and expanding demand for IoT-related we will work to strengthen proﬁtability in the Ordinary YOY -15% Ordinary proﬁt 64billion yen electronic components. In addition, to respond to proﬁt YOY +3% 25billion yen maintenance business. growing demand over the medium to long term, we The heat treatment processing business will will strengthen production capacity at our improve productivity and increase production at In the copper rolled products business, demand for domestic locations and expand sales to Asia using In the industrial furnace business, orders for new domestic locations in anticipation of further smartphones decreased mainly in the Chinese our locations in China, Thailand and Taiwan. equipment increased, and demand for equipment increases in demand. In addition, we will accelerate market from around the end of 2018, but sales for The electroplating business will respond steadily to maintenance expanded both in Japan and the expansion of overseas businesses where wide automobiles were steady. the overseas production of Japanese manufacturers, overseas. demand is expected, such as launching new The electroplating business absorbed demand for and the production expansion by foreign-aﬃliated In the heat treatment processing business, orders locations in India, and upfront investment and automotive electrical equipment. customers, through full-scale operation of our decreased due to the impact of a drop in strengthening proﬁtability in China, Thailand and In the metal-ceramics substrate business, despite Mexico and Thailand bases, and by improving automobile production numbers in China. Indonesia. expanding sales for railways and automobiles, productivity and increasing production of metal demand for industrial machinery decreased in the plating lines in Japan and Thailand. circuit board business. The metal-ceramics substrate business will increase production of core products and new products, and expand sales for railways and automobiles. FY 2018 Results & Plans (Ordinary Proﬁt) FY 2018 Results & Plans (Ordinary Proﬁt) (100 million yen) (100 million yen) 100 50 90 40 80 40 Ratio of Sales 75 Ratio of Sales 71 20.3％ 64 6.6 ％ 60 30 25 25 22 40 20 20 10 ※Excluding adjustments ※Excluding adjustments 0 0 2016 2017 2018 2020 2016 2017 2018 2020 17 Plan Plan 18 Evaluate the results of the CSR midterm plan, review Materiality and Medium-Term CSR Goals Announced the our materiality and consider Vision for 2020, a new CSR plan At the DOWA Group, we identiﬁed our materiality in FY 2010, and formulated a CSR policy in FY and formulated 2011. Based on these, in FY 2014, we formulated the“Vision for 2020,”which are medium-term goals for CSR, and set single-year activity plans and goals each year to achieve that vision, and are working the medium-term CSR goals and After FY 2020 on CSR throughout the group. (P.21-22) plans (until 2020) Sustainable Development FY 2020 is the ﬁnal year of the goals, and we plan to evaluate the results of our eﬀorts so far. Goals (SDGs) 2016 ●Set the medium-term Furthermore, in light of the changes in society and the business environment, we will review goals with the aim of “materiality” and consider devising a new CSR plan in order to clarify issues that should be prioritized from a mediumto long-term perspective. the“Vision for 2020” for the entire group ●Priority measures set for each of the“S+ESG” FY 2016 ～19 areas speciﬁed in the CSR plan results by FY and CSR policy to prioritize initiative goals for the next issues that should be addressed for the vision FY announced ●Single-year activities and goals set as an ●In the annual CSR report, the activity plan to realize initiative results and evaluation of the vision 2015 measures by area, and the next FY goals, are reported FY 2014 ●Among social issues, especially activities that our company Materiality study camp FY Started the CSR focuses on for a solution, selected plan for Climate Change Measures (2010) goal 12 of the SDGs -“securing Promotion of recycling sustainable patterns of medium-term goals Contributing to Development of products and local communities services that are useful for the Conservation of biodiversity & environment and society consumption and production” The interests of stakeholders ecosystems Occupational safety & Formulated CSR ●CSR midterm plan work-life balance Resource & energy saving started in line with the Human resource development policy and set ﬁrst year of the DOWA Logical and transparent Prevention of environmental pollution priority measures Group’s new midterm plan in 2015 2013 disclosure of activities & information Governance Supply chain Respect for Initiatives in Identiﬁed DOWA ●Formulated the FY human rights emerging management “DOWA Group CSR Group materiality countries Policy”based on the UN Global Compact Conducted company ●Gathered select and our corporate -wide risk assessments members from the ﬁve philosophy to promote Impact on our business operating companies CSR activities from a in the area of the 2012 Materiality Matrix (2010) and held a study long-term perspective “environment”, camp to examine the ●Implemented selfmateriality of the evaluation based on FY “society” and DOWA Group both the materiality Started evaluation “governance” ●Identiﬁed social issues identiﬁed in the previous and important issues ﬁscal year and core of activities for aﬀecting our business, issues of ISO 26000, and ●Conducted a midto and summarized set priority areas and priority measures long-term risk survey of all important issues and measures to address oﬃces regarding Started a companymeasures for each by the four CSR areas environmental, social and 2011 governance risks, taking wide risk survey operating company ●Started setting goals and into account the current ●Included the FY “Materiality Matrix”in evaluating activities based situation and the impact of CSR Medium-Term Goals and Plan (2015) ●Started a survey the next FY CSR on the priority measures future changes focused on report ●Disclosed activity details ●Included the results in the environmental risks and evaluation results next FY CSR report 2010 with an in-house through CSR reports questionnaire targeting all oﬃces, FY Area Risk Examples of initiatives Endorsed the UN and since then have Collecting information about and done it annually responding to legal regulations related to Global Compact the revision of domestic laws, ●Conducted materiality Legal regulations strengthening of regulations & standards, overseas regulations such as REACH questionnaires at Environment regulations & RoHS directives, and general business and product transactions ●In March 2009, operating subsidiaries signed the UN Global Measures for air quality, water quality, 2009 Environmental noise, odors, chemical substance conservation Compact, which management and climate change, etc. consists of the four FY No accidents & disasters, and mental Healthy & safety ﬁelds of“human health measures, etc. rights”,“labor” , Quality Ensuring and improving quality and establishing a quality control system, etc. “environment”and Society “anti-corruption” Development of an employee education Education and training system, skill transfer and 2008 career support, etc. Large-scale Disaster prevention and mitigation measures FY Governance disasters for earthquakes, tsunamis and ﬂoods, etc. Midto Long-Term Risk Assessment (2013) 19 20 CSR Policy and Plan Corporate governance ●Concept of the CSR plan and the goals “Vision for 2020” At the DOWA Group, in the four priority areas of governance, safety, environment and society for our CSR policy, DOWA At eac h of th e DOWA G roup c ompanies,“S+ ESG ” Safety Society CSR Policy we have set the“Vision for 2020”as our medium-term goal. While seeing this vision as a goal that can be feasibly management based on the CSR policy has become achieved, as priority measures for issues that should be treated preferentially, we have set up an action plan to established, and through minimizing management risk at the realize this with single year initiatives and goals, and are promoting repeated action, evaluation and measures. same time as improving corporate value, we are contributing For details about the results of the initiatives by area for FY2018, please see the report by area from the next to solving global social issues Environment page. Activity Plan for FY2019 FY 2020 Areas CSR Policy Medium-Term Goals “Vision for 2020” Priority Measures Indicator Goals Initiative Goal ●Promoting sound business management by ensuring No. of important Establish a nominating committee Establish Strengthening of internal control suﬃcient functions, appropriate information disclosure deﬁciencies that Zero incidences No. of important deﬁciencies that and transparency for internal control systems and governance should be disclosed should be disclosed Zero incidences ●By each employee carrying out appropriate activities Implementation rate Conduct compliance ●We will aim to be an open and transparent based on the “DOWA Group’s Values and Code of Strengthening of compliance and risk Conduct compliance training Corporate company Conduct”, promoting business management that management of internal education 100％ for those posted overseas training in group training of does not give rise to any kind of fraud or corruption and brieﬁngs foreign location managers ●Taking into consideration international Governance initiatives, we will work on anti-corruption including bribery Coverage rate for ●Promoting CSR throughout the whole supply chain by supplier surveys 80% on a Create an education tool ●We will take CSR into consideration in our building partnerships with suppliers CSR procurement promotion transaction through collaboration with One incidence ※Excluding construction Results on P. 25 procurement contractors amount basis other companies ●All employees will independently take part in Frequency rate※1 1.0 or less Implementation of safety audits Frequency rate 1.5 or less activities to improve the level of health and ●Appropriately manage and minimize occupational Raising the company-wide safety level & safety and health examinations Severity rate 0.01 or less Severity rate 0.02 or less Safety safety based on our basic philosophy of safety risks in the workplace, and make a from an objective viewpoint “safety takes the priority over everything” comfortable and safe working environment a No. of times education Strengthening of safety education in is implemented 20 times in total Strengthen maintenance Cut in half the incidence of Results on P. 33 ●We will prevent accidents at work and will reality education accidents at the time of subsidiaries outside Japan No. of persons educated 200 people in total support the health of our employees repairs ●Be responsible for the essentials of the international Strengthening of the recycling Collection volume of Increase from Strengthening the collection ● We will provide customers (clients and the preceding Increase from the resource recycling network in Asia and the Paciﬁc rim business:Collection volume, recycling volume recyclable raw of materials for recycling ﬁscal year preceding ﬁscal year regions) with products and services that area and an increase in the number of elements, etc materials outside Japan contribute to building a recycling-oriented ●Realize eﬀective reduction of CO2 emissions per unit Emission amount of Compared to Promote renewal of Improve the utilization ratio of renewable energy Total greenhouse gas emissions society by energy saving measures and actively utilizing CO2 emissions per FY 1990 energy-saving equipment and Strengthen energy saving initiatives 15% reduction Versus previous FY 1% reduction Environment ●We will reduce environmental impacts and renewable energy unit energy conversion risks in our business activities. ● Properly manage the environmental risks of the Minimize the risk of environmental accidents Raising the level through seminar ●From managers to employees, we will be and strengthen the ability to respond No. of environmental Zero workplace, and minimize the risk of environmental courses and mutual inspections of 8 regions uniﬁed in working on environmental ※Environmental accidents: In cases where there is impact accident occurrences incidences accidents happening outside of the company and it is reported to the relevant agency environment management systems conservation activities ●We will promote business activities that ● Promote biodiversity conservation activities in Understand the biodiversity risk of suppliers Survey rate for Conﬁrm the biodiversity 100％ Over 80% on a Results on P. 39 collaboration with the upstream and downstream of Conﬁrm consideration for the biodiversity suppliers and mines consideration status for consider biodiversity transaction amount basis the supply chain situation at mines mine-related suppliers Employment rate of people with disabilities※2 2.2％ Employment for the physically challenged 2.2% Interview each oﬃce about Draft measures in order to create conditions of the work environment workplaces where it is easy to work Expand global human resources and Implement a global challenge Promoting diversity Attendance rate for program, short-term intensive education about 100％ strengthen human resources and English language training and ●While diverse human resources mutually respect organizations at oﬃces overseas promoting the training of foreign location managers each other, employees themselves select the success of women diverse ways of working that are in line with their Strengthen relationships with universities and Clarify priority schools and technical colleges, and develop routes to employ respective life stages and styles, and the company those with mechanical and electrical skills routes for employment ●We will aim to create a workplace where diversity and the human rights of employees and teams support each other Thorough knowledge within the company Publicize handbooks to of the various systems explain the systems Social are respected, and each person can Encouragement of the use of A rate of 70% for the days taken, and demonstrate their maximum abilities with Rate of annual paid promote measures to encourage the Promoting work-life balance 70% annual paid vacation satisfaction and pride leave taken taking of paid vacation Promotion of measures to Thorough and strict observance of group management reduce working hours standards for working hours Implement training of evaluators and Employee degree of brieﬁngs for those being evaluated 300 students Training of both evaluators and those ●Establish a culture that fosters fair evaluation & satisfaction Conduct surveys about the degree of penetration being evaluated 90％ A response rate of 100%(targeting 1,100 people) treatment, with employees experiencing growth, -Business planning and understanding of the personnel system Strengthen in-house human resources system Evaluation system education for new results and satisfaction. Employees themselves employees Attendance rate 100% education create an organization where they compete with Implement career training for new Attendance rate: 100% Support for career development done each other and support each other. -Attendance rate 70％ and young employees on the initiative of the employee Promote career planning seminars Attendance rate: 10% Results on P. 47 ●In unity with the local community, we will ●Deploy inside and outside of Japan social contributions Activities related to education for children 4 times promote social contributions that reﬂect the Promoting social contribution ̶ ̶ unique characteristics of the local community together with each region Activities related to regional revitalization 4 times ※1：From this report, the frequency rate calculation method has been revised to the deﬁnition of the Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare 21 ※2：The goal has been revised according to the statutory employment rate 22 Corporate Governance To continue to be a company that is trusted by society, the DOWA Group has positioned the strengthening of corporate governance as a key management issue, and is working on it based on the “DOWA Group’s Values and Code of Conduct”. Priority Measure CSR Procurement Towards Responsible Mineral Procurement Audit by an independent third party In recent years it has been pointed out that ore mined in conﬂict areas around the world has The DOWA Group has multiple smelters in Japan and produces many types of metals, including gold, silver been used to fund armed groups and to prolong such things as civil wars, causing great human and tin. So that all customers can use these metals with peace of mind, we are regularly audited by a third-party right violations for workers and local residents. In the U.S. ﬁnancial regulatory reform bill enacted organization with regards to our responsible mineral management system and its implementation status. in 2010 and which aims to cut oﬀ the source of funding for armed groups, companies that are Two of our companies, Kosaka Smelting & Reﬁning and Eco-System Recycling, have been certiﬁed for the listed on the US stock market are obliged to annually disclose information on the usage of four Conﬂict-Free Smelter Program in accordance with the Responsible Minerals Assurance Process established by kinds of minerals, namely gold, tantalum, tin and tungsten, that originate in the conﬂict area of the the Responsible Minerals Initiative (RMI). In the program, an independent third party evaluates the smelter / Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) and its neighboring countries. Moreover, the European reﬁner’ s procurement activities and determines whether all ores handled are from conﬂict-free mines and pits, Parliament adopted conﬂict mineral regulations in 2017, and eﬀorts to encourage companies to or whether it is recycled material. In the actual audit, such things as our procurement policy and code of deal with conﬂict minerals as a social issue are spreading around the world. conduct, the procurement material analysis process, the method of determining suppliers, and the As our social responsibility as a company that handles metallic materials, the DOWA Group is appropriateness of the deﬁnition of recycled materials, are veriﬁed through on-site audits and the checking of working toward responsible mineral procurement that takes human rights, the environment and documents. In addition, as a part of promoting responsible mineral procurement, at these oﬃces we regularly ethics into consideration. conduct employee training about conﬂict minerals and human rights. In 2019, to further promote responsible mineral procurement, we have newly obtained third-party certiﬁcation Strengthening our response towards responsible mineral procurement for silver that is compliant with the Responsible Silver Guidance (RSG) set by the London Bullion Market Association (LBMA). We are actively responding to stakeholders’requests for transparency in the supply chain With automobiles, electronic devices and electrical appliances, there are a huge number of by strengthening management systems and policies, formulating risk assessment procedures for suppliers, and products that use metals. These are distributed around the world and they support our lives. publishing audit results. Regardless of how information is disclosed, we believe that the procurement of ore, the raw material for these products, should not prolong conﬂicts and not promote human rights violations. As a role that we should fulﬁll as a smelter located in the upstream of the supply chain, we strive for Because we do not use minerals as raw materials that may fund organizations involved in things responsible mineral procurement by establishing a metal supply system that is not related to conﬂicts or human like risky and illegal human rights abuses in conﬂict and high-risk areas, for the purpose of rights abuses. clarifying more speciﬁc management methods, in March 2019 we revised the“DOWA Group Responsible Mineral Procurement Policy”, our conﬂict minerals management policy that was established in 2012. Based on this policy, we conduct due diligence (risk assessment) for all suppliers of raw materials containing gold, tin and silver (excluding tin contained in recyclable raw materials), and respond appropriately to the identiﬁed risks. As a result of the risk assessment, if the manager in charge of conﬂict minerals determines that the risk is high, it is stipulated that the purchase of the raw materials be stopped. Due diligence is implemented in accordance with the“OECD Due Diligence Guidance Kosaka Smelting & Reﬁning Eco-System Recycling for Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals from Conﬂict-Aﬀected and High-Risk Areas”. In addition, in accordance with the policy revision, a dedicated VOICE inquiry point of contact has been established on our website with In March 2019, DOWA Metals & Mining established a new management system to prevent the regards to responsible mineral procurement. By responding in a timely procurement of raw materials from suppliers with a wide range of risks, such as conﬂict areas, human and appropriate manner to concerns and opinions about conﬂict rights abuses, money laundering and bribery. Supplier due diligence (risk assessment) is a daunting task of sending and collecting questionnaires and notices to hundreds of suppliers. minerals from domestic and foreign stakeholders through this point of There is a time diﬀerence with suppliers overseas, and since communication with them tends to contact, we can quickly deal with supply chain risks. be via emails, it of course takes time to collect. At ﬁrst they did not understand, but by persistently explaining the importance of responsible mineral procurement and our eﬀorts in Responsible Mineral Procurement Policy http://www.dowa-csr.jp/about/procurement_policies.html this regard, we were able to be certiﬁed with the cooperation of our suppliers. I would like to Web express our gratitude to our suppliers and all those concerned. 23 NAGASAWA Hiroyuki, Precious Metal & Copper Business Unit, DOWA METALS & MINING 24  Corporate Governance The DOWA Group positions the strengthening of corporate governance as one of the highest management tasks, and we are working on group-wide eﬀorts to develop and operate a system that is eﬀective and eﬃcient in contributing to society and for internal control. Corporate Governance Area CSR Policy ● Corporate Governance System •We will aim to be an open and transparent company At the DOWA Group, in order to operate the company system and have separated our business •Taking into consideration international initiatives, we will work on organization soundly and eﬃciently, and at the same divisions into subsidiaries. In addition, by establishing anti-corruption including bribery time to speed up decision making and to boost the board of corporate auditors, and by appointing •We will take CSR into consideration in our procurement management eﬃciency, in addition to adopting an outside directors, we are trying to ensure the executive oﬃcer system, we have adopted a holding soundness of management. General Meeting of Shareholders Progress of Activities Following is the status of activities for FY 2018 and the plan for FY 2019 in the ﬁeld of corporate governance. Nominating committee 6 directors Elect, Dismiss Elect, Dismiss Elect, Dismiss ●FY 2018 Results Corporate Governance Priority Measures Tasks Indicator Evaluation Main Results Advice Board of directors Audit & supervisory 8 directors board 4 auditors Accounting Auditors Explanation of (including 4 outside directors) Supporting internal control (including 2 outside directors) (including 3 outside auditors) Internal control and governance activities of domestic and Prepare an executive handbook △ responsibilities during Inquiry Chairperson: Chairman Audit overseas companies executive training Supervise Audit Audit Compliance and Conducting brieﬁng sessions 3 times ○ 700 participants Business Execution risk management about harassment Remuneration committee 6 directors Lawyers Holding Company DOWA Holdings Co., LTD. By participating in the Global Advice Implement a revision Compact Network Japan Supply President Committee of the Board Advice Revise the promotion system and methods based on exchanges with ○ Chain Subcommittee, Inquiry other types of industries collaborated and cooperated Committee of the Operating Officers CSR procurement with other companies promotion Strategic planning & public relations, human DOWA Consultation Desk (outside lawyers) Development of original Implement CSR procurement resources development, general affairs & training tools, and training for a ○ (including 2 outside directors & 2 outside advisors) Promote in-house education training targeting those legal,accounting & finance, environment & total of 66 procurement staﬀ safety, technology, and information systems Notice responsible for procurement and new employees Management Report Instruction, Supervision Report ●FY 2019 Initiatives and Goals Operating Companies Group Establish a nominating Support Companies committee Establish Operating Companies※ Internal control and governance No. of important DOWA ECO-SYSTEM CO., LTD. DOWA TECHNOLOGY CO., LTD. deﬁciencies that should Zero incidences DOWA METALS & MINING CO., LTD. Technical support be disclosed DOWA ELECTRONICS MATERIALS CO., LTD. DOWA METALTECH CO., LTD. Support DOWA MANAGEMENT SERVICES CO., LTD. DOWA THERMOTECH CO., LTD. Conduct compliance Business support Compliance and Conduct compliance training in group training for those posted training of foreign location managers Instruction, Supervision Report risk management overseas Operating Subsidiaries ※President of an operating company serves concurrently as a non-fulltime executive director of DOWA Holdings. Create an education tool CSR procurement through collaboration One incidence promotion with other companies As of the current CSR Report issued in 2019 25 26 ●Board of Directors and Directors Compliance The board of directors is composed of eight directors eﬀectiveness of the board of directors every year with At the DOWA Group,“compliance”is positioned as the basis of corporate management. The“DOWA Group’ s (seven men and one woman), including two outside the aim of continuous improvement. Values and Code of Conduct”has been established for each employee to not only comply with the laws and directors appointed in consideration of their expertise In the ﬁscal year that ended in March 2019, the regulations, but also carry out activities in accordance with the common sense of society. Together with and background, with attendance by four auditors, board of directors met 15 times, and the attendance contributing to society through our business activities, the whole group is working to establish and operate an including three outside auditors. With regards to their rate of outside directors was 100%. In addition,outside eﬀective internal control system. In addition, each company in the DOWA Group aims to improve the awareness decisions for business execution and the supervisory directors and auditors hold regular meetings to of compliance as they deal with the annual internal audit. function of the board of directors, we evaluate the exchange opinions and ensure cooperation. ●Internal Control Activities No. of directors in the articles of incorporation ………………………………… 13 In order to strengthen corporate governance in the each company for speciﬁc activities, we are aiming for Term of oﬃce for directors in the articles of incorporation …………………… 1year DOWA Group, the holding company and each group an eﬀective and eﬃcient internal control according to company share the basic policy and basic system for the holding company system. Chair of the board of directors ……………………………………………………… Chairman internal control, and by utilizing the uniqueness of No. of directors …………………………………………………………………………… 8 No. of outside directors ………………………………………………………………… 2 Internal Audit Among the outside directors, no. speciﬁed as independent directors …… 2 The internal audit based on the internal audit rules prescribed by the DOWA Group involves all corporate activities, such as the accounting audit, legal audit and safety & environmental audit. It is implemented Evaluation results on the eﬀectiveness of the board of directors with the cooperation of relevant departments and each group company. The audit results are reported We conducted a questionnaire (self-evaluation) for directors, analyzed and evaluated the eﬀectiveness of to the directors, auditors and the relevant departments. In FY 2018, as part of strengthening internal all directors and auditors, including those outside the the entire board of directors. control, we conducted internal audits at eight domestic companies, and overseas we conducted internal company, and through discussions with the board of audits at 15 companies in North America, Southeast Asia and China. Implementation Details Self evaluation done through a questionnaire Please refer to our annual report on the basic policy and operation status with regards to the internal control system. Web https://www.dowa.co.jp/jp/ir/library/annual.html Evaluation subject Board of director meetings held from April 2018 to March 2019 (total of 15 times) Evaluators All directors and auditors ●Internal Reporting System Evaluation It was conﬁrmed that the frequency of meetings of the board of directors, and the In order to encourage early detection of risks posters and group reports. Moreover, in order to build results proceedings of the chair, are appropriate, and the board of directors has become a venue for free and vigorous discussion, and that its eﬀectiveness has been suﬃciently associated with corporate activities, and aiming for a healthier partnership with suppliers and cooperating secured, including its composition and agenda items. employees to feel more secure and comfortable in the companies, we have also set up a point of contact at workplace environment, we have set up a “DOWA the DOWA Consultation Desk for those outside our Future initiatives to improve eﬀectiveness Consultation Desk” that allows direct consultation company, and have made it possible for employees of with external lawyers. Conﬁdentiality concerning the suppliers and cooperating companies to use it. At this While there were some improvements in the analysis and review of company-wide risk assessment methods, and the measures taken to implement the midterm management plan, report, and that the person reporting is not subject to point of contact, conﬁdentiality is kept for the which were cited as issues last ﬁscal year, opinions were expressed that continuous improvement disadvantageous treatment, are both guaranteed, and consultations made and opinions given, and we was desirable. Based on this, going forward we will continue working to further improve the it becomes commonly known through the intranet, respond promptly and appropriately. eﬀectiveness of the board of directors. With regards to basic policies and initiatives about governance, please see our report about corporate governance. Web https://www.dowa.co.jp/jp/about_dowa/governance.html Status of voluntary committees that have been established With the advice of the compensation committee, nominating committee has been established to obtain which consists of outside directors and outside advice from an objective position. Both committees experts, the executive compensation system is consist of ﬁve or more members, including two designed to incorporate an objective perspective, outside directors, one outside auditor and one outside such as the consolidated business results of our group, expert. The chairperson is elected by the board of dividends to shareholders and external compensation directors and, in principle, the committees meets once levels. For particularly important matters, such as the a year or more. appointment and dismissal of executive managers, the 27 28 Risk Management Participation in International Organizations and Consortium The DOWA Group works on risk management with the goal of properly controlling risks that may hinder In March 2009, the DOWA Group endorsed and signed the UN Global Compact (UNGC), which are voluntary the realization of our business philosophy and achievement of our business plans, and to fulﬁll our social principles of corporate action proposed by the United Nations. We respect the 10 principles in the four ﬁelds of responsibilities, and to contribute to the improvement of our sustainable corporate value. Among the risks “human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption”that are listed in the UN Global Compact, and we are surrounding the group, the board of directors is responsible for“ business risks”, and the environmental and working toward the sustainable development of society. safety department is responsible for“ CSR risks”in cooperation with other departments. The 10 Principles of the UN Global Compact Economic Base Metal Market Prices & Public Stock Price Situation Foreign Exchange Rates Regulations Fluctuations 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Business Risks Human rights 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Interest Rate Disasters or Fluctuations Power Outages 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the eﬀective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Labor 5 the eﬀective abolition of child labor; Healthy & Quality Environmental Legal safety conservation regulations 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Business Risks in CSR Employment 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; & Labor Human Rights etc. Environment 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; 9 encourage the development and diﬀusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-corruption Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. ●Business Continuity Plan (BCP) Initiatives ●Implementing Company-Wide Disaster Drills In addition to large-scale earthquakes, by regions We carry out company-wide disaster drills twice a We reﬂect the principles of the Global Compact, Compact Network Japan (GCNJ), UNGC’ s local and oﬃces we have formulated business continuity year. We set up emergency headquarters at each level such as respect for human rights and elimination of network in Japan. In FY 2018, we participated in the plans (BCP) for natural disasters such as typhoons of the holding company, operating companies and child labor, in the formulation of our CSR “Supply Chain Subcommittee” of GCNJ, and while and ﬂoods caused by torrential rain that have been business divisions, and we aim to maintain and procurement policies and guidelines. We are also cooperating with various companies, we work to increasing in recent years, and pandemics such as improve initial response capabilities such as conﬁrming actively participating in the activities of the Global promote its activities. new strains of inﬂuenza. We are working to avoid the safety of our employees and reporting the damage risks in order to continue business activities in situation between each emergency headquarters. Global Compact Network Japan http://www.ungcjn.org/index.html Web emergency situations. Introduction of a safety information Continuous improvement of the BCP conﬁrmation system Initiatives for Human Rights and Anti-Corruption We revise the BCP on a regular basis, and in FY In order to ensure prompt contact and conﬁrmation Based on the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact, the DOWA Group prohibits unfair discrimination, child 2018, 18 operating subsidiaries updated their BCPs, of someone’ s safety in the event of a disaster, we have labor and forced labor due to nationality, race, ethnicity, religion, gender, age or disability, and works to prevent and revised such things as the scale of disasters, introduced a safety information conﬁrmation system corruption. Regarding human rights, we conduct a questionnaire annually of our operating subsidiaries, response procedures and target recovery periods. In using smartphones to strengthen our disaster including oﬃces overseas, and work to understand the current situation. addition, measures are being promoted that incorporate prevention system. In the disaster drill for FY 2018, we practical activities such as revision of disaster-related conducted a safety information gathering drill using manuals and the addition of stored items. this system, conﬁrmed that information could be ●Harassment Training ●Initiatives to Eliminate Antisocial Forces collected promptly, and successfully completed the In FY 2018, we held harassment training for managers As included in the “DOWA Group’ s Values and Survey of BCP Formulation in Supply Chain drill. throughout the group. An outside lawyer, who is in Code of Conduct”, to fulﬁll our corporate social The DOWA Group mainly deals with B to B charge of the DOWA Consultation Desk, was invited responsibility, we will eliminate wrongdoing due to business, and since a disruption of the supply chain to give lectures on the legal status and risks related to antisocial forces, and require all executives and has a big impact on the production and sales of power harassment and sexual harassment, and speciﬁc employees to be aware and act. We have established customers that we deliver to, through CSR criteria based on precedent. The training was held a system in which related departments cooperate with procurement, we are checking with major suppliers three times by connecting the Tokyo headquarters, the each other, centering on the general aﬀairs and legal about their status for formulating BCP with regards to venue of the event, and oﬃces nationwide, via video aﬀairs departments in charge, and stipulate that there rapid business restoration and continuation in the conference, and was attended by more than 700 will be cooperation and organizational response with event of a disaster. For suppliers who have not yet people, including managers and voluntary participants. external specialized groups, such as lawyers, as formulated such plans, we explain the importance of In addition to training and education, we disseminated necessary. In addition, while ensuring that all the initiative and request strengthening of their BCP information by putting executives and employees comply with the code of measures. Also, when natural disasters such as heavy up posters at our oﬃces conduct and the related laws and regulations through snowfall or typhoons occur, the procurement and through the intranet, employee training and distribution of manuals, the department at the head oﬃce promptly conﬁrms the etc., and worked to status of compliance is monitored through internal impact on production and shipment based on the list prevent workplace audits. of supplier production sites by region. harassment. 29 30 Safety Occupational safety and health is one of the most important themes in the development of DOWA’s business. Based on the basic philosophy that “safety takes the priority over everything”, we formulated CSR management plans at all business sites in Japan and overseas, and are conducting safety activities based on our annual plan. Initiatives to prevent accidents and disasters -Formulating technical standards Priority Measure Raising the Company-Wide Safety Level when introducing equipmentSafety Takes the Priority Over Everything If there is insuﬃcient consideration at the time of new equipment construction, not only equipment safety, but production capacity may not even be realized. With regards to safety, for example, fault such as inadequate safety devices, forcing unreasonable work and the inability to cover human errors must be resolved when the Raising the safety level On-site safety is supported by the strong will of management and correct employee education. The equipment is introduced. DOWA Group is putting eﬀort into training workplace safety instructors to enhance safety Therefore, keeping in mind the safety of equipment and achieving production capacity, a working group for education for operators. the standardization of production technology was launched at DOWA Technology, and we developed an In addition, our company has a unique system that strongly supports improvement, and designates equipment procurement manual (DTMS: DOWA Technical Manufacturing Standard) which are standard rules business sites with serious accidents, and those with a high frequency of accidents, as“designated at each stage of considering the concept of construction work, basic design, and detailed design. business sites”and“quasi-designated business sites”respectively. The Safe Environment Personnel The standard rules consist of items to be considered, such as workﬂows, technical standards and risk Council, which is made up of safety managers from the holding company and all operating assessments, and check sheets at each stage. As a standard manual from equipment planning to introduction companies, provides support and guidance to designated business sites and quasi-designated and start-up, it has begun to be applied to some construction works from FY 2019. business sites in improving their safety systems. When necessary, we implement and discuss safety In the future, we will further expand the applicable range, boost completion accuracy in capital investment, audits and health & safety examinations that incorporate an objective perspective from external and improve the certainty of safety and performance. consultants, and improve the safety level by working on our own issues. Implemented by the will of top management and educated employees The strong will of top management Workplace safety instructors Operators Facility procurement manual (extract version) For business sites with issues, company-wide support and guidance Initiatives for business sites with a high number of accidents and disasters VOICE • Strengthen on-site safety in conjunction with the safety management Designated special guidance office business sites While it was a diﬃcult way from the start of considering until getting on track, since serious accidents • Initiatives to foster a culture of safety continued, and it was urgent to review safety functions, we cooperated with engineers all over the country. We will continue to improve it so that it will be useful as a technical standard for improving equipment • Safety examinations that include an objective viewpoint from external safety and reducing omissions, oversights and risks. In addition, there are side eﬀects such as the Quasi-designated consultants accumulation and utilization of the contents of consideration, raising awareness about risks, and activating communication between departments. We can expect an improvement in technical skills. Going forward, business sites • Selecting themes according to individual companies the study details will be enriched and become more eﬃcient due to the standardization of the • Promoting improvement design review (DR) method, and we will work to respond individually to diﬀerences in equipment for each business, and to improve the level of satisfaction with the manual. • Digging deep into factor analysis Disaster visits • Verifying the appropriateness of measures • Safety audits SAKAI Shoichi, Manager, Production Technology Dept, DOWA TECHNOLOGY 31 32  ●Safety Management System The DOWA Group’ s environmental and safety management activities are carried out in cooperation with the environment & safety department of DOWA conducts environmental conservation activities. While arranging and coordinating between each of the operating companies, DOWA Holdings implements Holdings, the holding company, and safety & environment safety promotion activities for the entire group. Safety Area CSR Policy personnel appointed by each operating company that •All employees will independently take part in activities to improve the DOWA HOLDINGS Co., LTD. level of health and safety based on our basic philosophy of “safety takes the priority over everything” President Director •We will prevent accidents at work and will support the health of our in charge employees Environment & safety department Progress of Activities The status of activities in the safety ﬁeld in FY2018, and the plan for FY2019 are as follows. Safety & Environment ●FY 2018 Results Personnel Council Key safety measures Tasks Indicator Evaluation Main Results Each operating company Frequency rate※ 1.5 or less × 2.79 Safety & environment personnel Raising the Strengthen company-wide cross-initiatives safety level by region Severity rate 0.02 or less × 0.06 Safety & Environment Personnel Council Strengthening of safety Cut in half the incidence Strengthen maintenance education in subsidiaries education of accidents at the time △ ▲14% reduction The Safety & Environment Personnel Council is held at the head outside Japan of repairs oﬃce every month, and is a place to discuss promotion of company-wide safety activities, to share the activities of each company, and provide mutual support. In the event of an accident ●FY 2019 Initiatives and Goals or disaster, the council grasps the situation and discusses the causes and measures to deal with it. For matters such as details or measures decided by the council, it goes from those in charge to each operating subsidiary, with a mechanism in place for quick information Do safety audits & safety Frequency rate※ 1.5 or less sharing. Raising the and health examinations company-wide including an objective safety level Odate viewpoint Region Severity rate 0.02 or less Safety Campaign Region Council Akita Kosaka The Counsil is set up as a place for communication with a system Region Region where the members of each region share examples of activities and Strengthening of safety ideas and consult with each other. Going forward, we will further Safety Campaign Strengthen maintenance Cut in half the incidence of accidents at the education in subsidiaries develop this network and contribute to the promotion of the education time of repairs Region Council outside Japan campaign. Okayama Kanto Region Region ※From this report, the frequency rate calculation method has been revised to the deﬁnition of the Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare. Chukyo Region 33 34 Risk assessment presentation Safety & Environmental Compliance Seminar Occupational Safety Initiatives For the sharing of the excellent initiatives of each In December 2018, the 26th Safety & Environmental For the DOWA Group, based on the CSR policy (all employees will independently take part in activities to group company, and to form a human network of Compliance Seminar was held at a business site in the improve the level of health and safety, based on our basic philosophy of “safety takes the priority over those in charge, we hold a risk assessment presentation Okayama region. Putting a focus on the business everything”), we are developing various safety activities based on an annual safety and health plan. every June with the purpose of improving the level of activities of plants, a workshop was held in which safety initiatives at each company. In the eighth each could share their opinions about corporate presentation, adding the seven domestic companies compliance with regards to safety and the ●Occurrence Status for Accidents at Work selected by advance screening, DOWA Thermotech environment. In the training, the details were more While the number of accidents at the DOWA Group Regarding the types of accidents that occurred in FY Thailand presented on their“Contractor Control for practical for the workplace, such as incorporating as a whole is on a downward trend in the long term, 2018, there were many cases of being“pinched & caught” Safety Activity” initiative, which got an excellent issues found during actual plant tours. it increased in FY 2018. Compared with ﬁgures at or“cut & scraped”,accounting for nearly half of the total. grade at the safety conference overseas. business sites of the same scale in the accident statistics In addition, it is characterized by the fact that many of the About 70 people from Japan and abroad attended, of the Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare, the victims have less than ﬁve years of experience. Since the and active opinions and questions were exchanged frequency rate was 2.79 against 1.88, but for the causes of these accidents at work have aspects of both the about each company’ s initiatives. severity rate it was 0.06 against 0.15, an improvement “safety management system”and“individual sensitivity & from the previous year. behavior”, we are taking measures for both at the same time to prevent recurrence. ■ Change in the accidents at work frequency rate ■ Change in the accidents at work severity rate Same-sized business site average DOWA Group Same-sized business site average DOWA Group （people） （Days） 3.0 1.2 Frequency 1.01 Severity 2.5 2.27 rate 2.79 rate 1.0 2.1 1.88 2.0 1.74 0.8 1.88 0.58 1.5 1.68 1.7 1.67 0.6 1.64 0.46 1.0 0.4 Promotion of Health Management 0.14 0.11 0.15 0.15 0.5 0.2 0.08 0.04 0.06 0 0 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Through the health insurance association, we are developing various initiatives for promoting the health ※Compared with the ﬁnal accident statistics for FY 2018 for sites with 100 to 299 employees management of employees and their families, such as promoting physical check-ups and mental health (the average number of employees at each of our business sites) measures, and supporting sports events. Indicator showing the frequency of accidents by the number of dead and injured Frequency rate due to accidents at work per 1 million total working hours ●Health Check Up ●Mental Health Initiatives ●Initiatives to Prevent Indicator showing the degree of accident severity by the number of working days Overtime Work Severity rate To raise each person’s We operate a mental health lost per 1,000 total working hours In order to improve long awareness of health and to counseling system for the maintain mental and physical hours work, we are promoting mental health management of health, besides working on a management of working hours department and business site employees, and have with logging in and logging out ●Promotion of Safety Education basis so that everyone reliably established a dedicated on personal computers. In gets a regular medical check-up telephone number for We are working to raise safety awareness through every year, we have also addition, for employees who telephone consultations with risk simulation training and workshop-type training so enhanced the system for have more than 80 hours of specialized counselors (Clinical that all employees can make occupational safety their various subsidies, such as for overtime in a month, we are complete physical Psychologists). We have own issue and act on their own. working on preventing health examinations, gynecological established a strictly private problems from work with such examinations and inﬂuenza point of contact outside of the Safety awareness survey vaccinations. In addition, in things as interviews with their company that anyone can From FY 2018, we started a safety awareness survey order to raise the examination supervisors and guidance from contact with peace of mind. rate for speciﬁc medical doctors. called“Safety Power Check”for new employees and Moreover, from FY 2013, in check-ups for insured persons those who patricipated in front-line supervisor and their dependents who are order to encourage people to training. From both the social and personal aspects, over 40 years old, we have be aware of their own stress, the survey evaluates the “spirit of compliance & provided information through and to improve the workplace such things as group environment that is the cause safety observance”and“risk prediction ability & risk newsletters, and the avoidance ability” which are necessary for safety examination rate is gradually of stress, we have introduced a increasing. stress check tool so that people power. By the using the survey results for workshops We expect that changes in individual behavior in the Further, provide a subsidy can self-diagnose their mental and one-on-one instructional exercises, it is not just a future will enable safer behavior, and safety awareness system for sporting events for health, and we are working to mere evaluation, but an opportunity to have will increase throughout the workplace through employees through sports and prevent employees from having self-awareness about what kind of trends there are. exercise so that they continue communication about safety. to maintain and promote a mental health problems. healthy body. 35 36 Environment The DOWA Group recognizes the impact of business activities on the environment, and we are working on it throughout the entire group with initiatives for the environment and society through our core business, and by positioning a reduction in the environmental impact of our business as an important issue for management. Maintaining Stability at Suspended or Abandoned Mines and Tailing Dams Priority Measure Reducing Environmental Impact & Risks Most of the suspended or abandoned mines and tailing dams that we manage are facilities that had ceased operations by 1980. Mine wastewater treatment plants Safety Management of Suspended or and tailing dam facilities are inspected on an irregular basis by public safety and inspection departments in each Locations of suspended Abandoned Mines and Tailing Dams region. However, our tailing dams are mostly suspended or or abandoned mines abandoned, with soil covering and mine pollution and tailing dams prevention work implemented, and greening by vegetation In the past, many mines were operating in Japan, but from around 1970, such things as the rapid completed, so they are in a very stable condition. appreciation of the yen reduced proﬁtability, and forced many domestic mines to stop operating. At Including tailing dams still in use, we set the items for present, along with tailing dams that are adjoining facilities of these suspended or abandoned mines, inspection and frequency for each location, with qualiﬁed under various mining laws and procedures such as the Mine Safety Act, they are strictly managed by people doing patrol inspections of such things as pitheads the company or local government that ultimately held the right to operate the mine. that have been blocked, and the slopes and culverts of We currently operate and manage more than 20 suspended or abandoned mines and more than tailing dams. We strive to maintain a stable condition by 30 tailing dams, the majority of which have been suspended or abandoned. In addition, by managing quickly detecting and repairing points of deterioration due with voluntary management standards that are stricter than mining laws and procedures, we are to changes over time. working to prevent mine pollution and maintain and improve safety. Preparing for Natural Disasters M a n a g e m e nt o f wa ter re so urc es In recent years, abnormal weather caused by climate change has continued in Japan, with localized heavy In suspended or abandoned mines, as a result of excavated tunnels, some of the ore remaining in rains occurring at an unprecedented frequency. In addition, Japan is an earthquake-prone country, and the mines comes into contact with groundwater and oxygen in the air, causing an oxidation preparing for large-scale earthquakes is essential. reaction. There is the possibility that acidic water or mine water (pit water) containing heavy metals Together with building a mechanism to prevent mine wastewater from ﬂowing out of the system even if heavy will ﬂow out from the pithead. In addition, at tailing dams, leachate (wastewater) containing rain occurs, and by evaluating the stability of tailing dams against large-scale earthquakes, and systematically harmful heavy metals is discharged due to rainwater or groundwater, and there is the risk of it implementing reinforcement work as needed, we are enhancing our preparedness for the threat of natural ﬂowing into rivers, causing pollution of water quality and agricultural land. disasters. We have set up mine wastewater treatment plants near each facility, we monitor pit water and wastewater generated from tunnels and tailing dams 24 hours a day, 365 days a year, and perform appropriate treatment according to the quality. Through this, we are working to maintain healthy water circulation and a sustainable water use environment. Tailing Dam Suspended or Abandoned Akitsu Mine Treatment Plant Esashi Mine Kuchizawa Dumping Site Nonami Mine Treatment Facility Leachate (Wastewater) Mine Water (Pit Water) VOICE Mine Wastewater Treatment Plant At Unekura Mining, which manages the suspended or abandoned mines of the DOWA Group Neutralization and treats mine wastewater, we have introduced various technologies into the mine wastewater treatment process, such as labor-saving treatment facilities and a neutralization method using iron-oxidizing bacteria. In the future as well, we will pursue eﬃcient treatment methods that have both low environmental impact and low cost, and we will work on safe and secure mine pollution prevention. Treated Neutralized Neutralized Precipitate Water Precipitate Treatment Plant HAREYAMA Satoshi, Representative Executive Director, UNEKURA MINING 37 38  FY 2018 Material Balance The DOWA Group is promoting business activities while considering material balance by quantitatively knowing the“input”of necessary resources and energy at each stage of the business life cycle, and the“output” of CO2 and waste generated from these activities. Environmental Area CSR Policy INPUT Versus Versus Raw material usage1,093thousand tons previous FY Total energy input 18.6PJ +1％ previous FY •We will provide customers (clients and regions) with products and services Fossil fuel consumption 116,000 KL Raw materials 836 thousand tons +4％ that contribute to building a recycling-oriented society Purchased electric power 1,417 GWh Auxiliary materials 163 thousand tons •We will reduce environmental impact and risks in our business activities. Thermal power generation 1.7 GWh Heat treatment 92 thousand tons •From managers to employees, we will be uniﬁed in working on Hydro-electric power generation 45.4 GWh Solar power generation 339 MWh Packaging materials 1.8 thousand tons environmental conservation activities Purchased steam ﬂow 323 GJ •We will promote business activities that consider biodiversity Amount of waste received Versus previous FY 1,533 thousand tons -2％ Usage & disposal Waste 1,406 thousand tons Versus previous FY Water resources 115million m +0.4％ 3 Statutory recycled items received 87 thousand tons End user Progress of Activities Seawater 102 million ㎥ Contaminated soil 39 thousand tons The status of activities in the area of the environment in FY 2018 and the plan for FY 2019 are as follows. Besides seawater 13 million ㎥ Fluorocarbon throughput 565 thousand tons ●FY 2018 Results Process discharge Environmental Priority Measures Tasks Indicator Evaluation Main Results DOWA Group business activities Manufacturing ・Expansion of global collection & sales of discarded electronic circuit Research & Strengthening of collection Manufacturing business Environmental boards for precious metal and development Promotion of Increase from the Nonferrous Heat management & resource recycling of materials for recycling preceding fiscal year ○ copper smelting metals outside Japan ・Expansion of automobile waste treatment recycling business catalyst collection by utilizing business business Procuring raw materials Clients European and Asia sites Electronics Metal materials processing Promotion of renewal of Total greenhouse gas business business Logistics Environmental impact energy-saving equipment at emissions reduced by 1% ○ Versus previous FY 3% decrease large-scale disposal sites compared to the previous FY Within business areas Raising the level through seminar Waste heat power △ 79 Waste heat utilization 173 TJ Versus Versus Environmental risks courses and mutual inspections of 8Regions 4Regions generation GWh previous FY -1％ previous FY ＋10％ environment management systems Conﬁrm the biodiversity Over 80% on a transaction In-house treatment Biodiversity consideration status for amount basis × 12.6% OUTPUT Recycling mine-related suppliers Total greenhouse gas （CO equivalent） Chemical substance 2,341 tons Versus previous FY Versus emissions 2 emissions previous FY +6％ ●FY 2019 Initiatives and Goals 1,868thousand tons -3％ Electric power source 772（CO thousand tons 2equivalent） Versus Drainage discharge 129 million ㎥ previous FY 0.4％ Fossil fuel source 323（CO equivalent） thousand tons Promotion of Strengthening of collection of 2 Increase from the preceding ﬁscal year resource recycling materials for recycling outside Japan Waste source 773（COthousand tons 2equivalent） Versus Amount of waste 386 thousand tons previous FY 2％ Environmental Promote renewal of energy-saving Total greenhouse gas emissions reduced by 1% Versus Versus impact equipment and energy conversion compared to the previous FY Amount of electric energy sold 0.5 GWh previous FY Recycled amount 612thousand tons previous FY 66％ +7％ Thermal recycling 350 thousand tons Raising the level through seminar Versus Material recycling 262 thousand tons Environmental risks courses and mutual inspections of 8 regions Product quantity 983 thousand tons previous FY +3％ environment management systems Conﬁrm the biodiversity consideration Biodiversity Over 80% on a transaction amount basis status for mine-related suppliers With regards to CO2 emissions, in principle we seek to multiply the electric power system purchase amount, the fossil fuel consumption and the amount of waste received, by the emission factor in the Law Concerning the Promotion of Measures to Cope with Climate Change. With regards to CO2 emissions derived from waste received, because the calculation terms are set for preparing this report, it may not necessarily match with the number reported to government agencies. In addition, due to diﬀerences in the classiﬁcation of waste in Japan and overseas, and the diﬃculty in setting an appropriate emission factor for waste received at overseas business sites, for CO2 emissions originating from waste, only the portion for Japan business sites is shown. Along with 39 the review of the aggregate, some of the ﬁgures reported in the 2018 CSR Report have also been revised. 40 About the Current Environmental Status ̶ Initiatives For Climate Change Conservation of Water Resources At the DOWA Group, based on the Action Plan to Implement a Low Carbon Society by the Keidanren (Japan Every year the DOWA Group conﬁrms the status for water intake sources and drainage destinations in addition to Business Federation) and the Japan Mining Industry Association (announced in January 2013), we have set a water usage at production sites in Japan and overseas. We are working to reduce the amount of water used goal of“a 15% reduction in our CO2 emission rate by FY 2020, compared to FY 1990”. throughout the entire group by promoting eﬃcient use within business sites to reduce the quantity of water intake. ●Reduction of Greenhouse Gas Emissions Major Initiatives for FY 2018 ●Water Resources In FY 2018, the greenhouse gas emissions by the In FY 2018, the water resource input amount was 114.9 Amount of water resources used •Facility remodeling & renewal and process improvement million ㎥, an increase of about 0.4% from the previous FY. DOWA Group as a whole were about 1,868 thousand •Energy savings through business eﬃciency tons CO2 (1,748 thousand tons CO2 in Japan, and 120 Our most common use of water resources is for cooling •Waste heat utilization and waste power generation thousand tons CO2 overseas). Compared to the previous •Fuel conversion water used in the smelting process, which uses seawater. FY, it decreased by about 3% in Japan and overseas. Freshwater usage is about 10% of the total, but increased Ground water 23.3％ Tap by 2.3% versus the previous FY to 13 million ㎥. Industrial water water Electric power source Fossil fuel source CO2 emissions (1,000t) Sales output level CO2 emissions (1,000t) Sales output level (100t / 100 million yen) In FY 2018, we worked on reducing the amount of water Seawater 89％ 115 Freshwater 11％ 35.8％ 13 million ㎥ 3.5％ (100t / 100 million yen) usage by installing water-saving type equipment and million ㎥ 800 4.0 400 4.0 recycling usage within processes. River water 350 Other 700 3.5 3.5 37.4％ 0.0％ 300 ●Drainage Water 600 3.0 3.0 GL※ GL ※ In FY 2018, the total amount of drainage water was 129 500 2.5 250 2.5 ES ES million ㎥, a decrease of about 0.4% from the previous 400 2.0 MM 200 2.0 MM 1.9 1.9 FY. Most of the cooling water for smelting uses seawater, 1.7 1.7 1.7 EL EL 300 1.5 150 1.5 and after using it in the process, we check the water Seawater Freshwater Industrial water River water MT MT 200 1.0 TH 100 1.0 TH quality and return it to the original sea area. Tap water Ground water Other HD 0.7 0.7 0.8 0.7 0.7 HD 100 0.5 Output 50 0.5 Output At each business site, we ensure drainage water level level 0 management and we are working to conserve water 0 0.0 ※GL： 0.0 ※GL： quality, not only observing drainage water regulations Overseas locations 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 （FY） Overseas locations 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 （FY） but also strict voluntary standards. ●Initiatives for Renewable Energy We are working on climate change measures through 45.4 GWh, which is an important power source to cover utilization of in-house power generation by renewable the energy of Kosaka Smelting & Reﬁning. In addition, Conservation of biodiversity energy, and the dissemination of renewable energy we are introducing solar power generation systems at Based on the basic policy of biodiversity, the DOWA Group is working to minimize the impact that our through our business. the Ohta Plant of Thermoengineering (Gunma business activities have on biodiversity, and we are promoting the conservation of biodiversity through social At Kosaka Smelting & Reﬁning (Akita Prefecture), in Prefecture), Meltec (Tochigi Prefecture), DOWA action programs. 1897 (Meiji 30) we began operating a hydroelectric Hightech (Saitama Prefecture), Eco-System Sanyo power plant for the use of mine development, only the (Okayama Prefecture) and Act-B Recycling (Kumamoto B a s ic p o l ic y o f b io d iv er s it y second such plant in Japan. Since then, as we expanded Prefecture). In FY 2018, the total power generation of our business, we continued to expand and improve our the ﬁve companies was 339MWh, and it is used for part The DOWA Group recognizes that our business activities get benefits from a biodiverse facilities, and now we have six hydroelectric power of our electric power needs in our business activities. nature, and the conservation of biodiversity is important to keep enjoying these plants in Akita Prefecture. In FY 2018, we generated benefits. As a member of society, we will voluntarily and continuously work on the conservation of biodiversity and sustainable usage. TO P I CS Launch of Indonesia’s First Hazardous Waste Rail Transport In August 2018, PPLi, which has the only approved hazardous waste ﬁnal ●Consideration for biodiversity in procurement disposal site in Indonesia and provides comprehensive waste management Supplying paper, a forest resource, is one of the we use paper that is a mixture of old paper and forest services, launched the country’s ﬁrst rail transport of hazardous waste in important ecosystem services, and it is also related to certiﬁed wood pulp for copy paper and pamphlets, collaboration with the Indonesian national railways and it’s operating climate change and waste. Because the company’ s and we are working to use sustainable biological subsidiary KALOG. Trucks took about three days to transport this, but by manufacturing business is mainly in the area of resources. switching to rail it now takes about one day, and it can be safely transported non-ferrous metals, we do not use biological When selecting suppliers of paper for FY 2018, in on a more stable schedule. It is also known that railroads emit signiﬁcantly resources for our main raw materials, excluding addition to the environmental nature of the paper less CO2 per unit of transport volume than automobiles. water, but we use paper at all our business sites both itself, based on the CSR procurement policy, we With the cooperation of the Indonesian regulatory authorities, the in Japan and overseas, and our whole group conﬁrmed that suppliers are considering biodiversity Indonesian national railways and it’s logistics subsidiary, this project took four purchases a lot of paper every year. For this reason, through“responsible paper procurement”. years to achieve through persistent trial operations. The DOWA Group contributes to solving environmental issues in Asia by cooperating with governments, regions and operating companies in various sectors. 41 42 Resource Recycling Initiatives At the DOWA Group we are working on eﬀective utilization of limited resources through the three loops of our own manufacturing process, the manufacturing processes of other companies, and the waste generated by society. At the C loseup same time, as a social responsibility in resource recycling, together with striving to minimize the environmental impact at every stage of recycling, such as appropriate water treatment, detoxifying waste and reliable landﬁll, we are aiming Lithium-ion Battery Recycling for sustainable resource recycling that considers environmental conservation and energy savings, such as using heat generated in the treatment process as steam or electric power. Balance safe processing and eﬃcient metal recycling Due to their high output, high energy eﬃciency, small size and light weight, demand for lithium-ion ●Three Resource Recycling Loops batteries is growing as an indispensable battery for a wide range of electronic devices, from mobile ① With in-house generation and usage, for waste accepted waste as raw material leads to a reduction of phones to electric vehicles (EV). On the other hand, continuous and stable processing has not been generated in the“manufacturing business”, such as our new resource inputs. established due to the danger of electric shock and ﬁre during disposal and dismantling, and the smelting and metal processing, it is recycled in the ③ Recycling of used end products. Through electrical value of recovered smelting raw materials being aﬀected by the ﬂuctuation in metal prices. There “environmental business”and“nonferrous metals appliance recycling, automobile recycling and the was a need for a safe and eﬃcient recovery and recycling system for the future. business”. Besides selling it as metallic material, we recycling of small household appliances, used products In January 2019, DOWA Eco-System, which has an environmental business, started operating a re-use it as raw material for our company. widely recovered from society will be returned to society detoxiﬁed lithium-ion battery recycling line in Odate, Akita Prefecture. Since October 2018, DOWA ② Accepting and recycling scrap metal generated from as metallic material again. Eco-System has been participating in the joint collection scheme for lithium-ion batteries launched the processes of manufacturing plants at other In addition, with regards to paper and aluminum, etc., by the Japan Automobile Manufacturers Association companies. In case it is from client factories that supply that we cannot use, we strive to appropriately recycle (general incorporated association). The DOWA Group’s our materials or parts, such things as reusing the through the recycling processes of other companies. Eco-System Akita and Eco-System Sanyo are registered as battery recycling facilities. DOWA Group Until now, after detoxifying lithium-ion batteries by Things that we cannot use heat treatment at several large incinerators owned by the DOWA Group, it was divided into iron and non-iron metal mixtures, and the metal mixture was melted by the Nonferrous DOWA Group’s Meltec. It was then recycled into artiﬁcial Environmental Manufacturing Department Metals Department Paper & aggregate for construction materials, and raw materials Eco-System Akita Department aluminum, etc. for smelting. The recycling line that is now in operation has a processing capacity of about 100 tons per month, 1 and separates batteries that have been detoxiﬁed by 3 heat treatment into iron, aluminum, copper and cobalt & 2 nickel mixtures, etc. With this, we can recycle each OUT Other Other metallic raw material more eﬃciently than at present, Consumers companies companies making it possible to achieve both safe processing and manufacturing recycling plants plants highly eﬃcient recycling. The DOWA Group will contribute to the conservation INPUT OUTPUT of the global environment by promoting stronger environmental and recycling services such as the Eco-System Sanyo Raw materials Products appropriate processing and recycling of waste. The amount of raw material used in FY 2018 was The product shipment volume in FY 2018 was 983 1,093 thousand tons, up about 4% from the previous thousand tons, an increase of about 3% from the FY. Most of the raw material we use is ore for metal previous FY. This was mainly because of an increase smelting, and it was around 69% of the total in FY in the amount handled due to improvement in the 2018, followed by recyclable raw material such as operation rate of heat treatment processing, and an Manufacturers increase in the number of heat treatment furnaces Raw material Material Battery scrap metal at about 14%. (Electronics & End products manufactured. manufacturers manufacturers manufacturers automobiles, etc.) Discharged waste Waste received The amount of waste treatment in FY 2018 was 386 Process scrap & The amount of waste received in FY 2018 was 1,533 thousand tons, a small decrease of approximately 2% from the previous FY. used batteries thousand tons, a decrease of approximately 2% from IN the previous FY, so about the same level. Recycling The amount of thermal recycling in FY 2018 was 350 DOWA ECO-SYSTEM CO., LTD. thousand tons, a increase of approximately 8% from (Detoxifying & recycling) the previous FY. Of this, 43 thousand tons was Iron, aluminum, Used batteries recycled within the Group, and 306 thousand tons copper and cobalt & was recycled outside of the company. The amount of nickel mixtures, etc. material recycling in FY 2018 was 262 thousand tons, a decrease of approximately 5.6% from the previous FY. Of this,72 thousand tons was recycled Flow of Lithium-ion Battery Manufacturing, Processing & Metal Recycling within the Group, and 190 thousand tons was recycled outside of the company. 43 44 Social From Guidance and Development to Support and Promotion The DOWA Group aims to be a company trusted by all stakeholders “Seeking the vitality of workers, and contributing to society through environmentally friendly“manufacturing”. is Akita Zinc’ s new corporate for sustainable development and is taking initiatives to enhance the philosophy that was formulated in 2018 by the in-house“Workplace Skills Improvement Project Team”. The Workplace Skills Improvement Project is relationship with society through its CSR activities. an initiative undertaken by the entire DOWA Group with the aim of improving workplace skills that are indispensable to building a foundation for corporate growth from the perspective of human resource Priority Measures development. With the project at Akita Zinc, we believe that the corporate philosophy is the basis of human resource development. From the starting Promoting work-life balance point of“what is the company for”, manufacturing has returned to the spirit of human resource development Support for career development done on the initiative of employees from the time the company was founded, and it has been summarized as our goal. At present, we are working to spread this as a philosophy that should be shared by all employees. Akita Zinc’ s Workplace Skills Improvement Project Team consists of members from each department selected Self-Directed and Self-Driven Initiatives by questionnaires of all employees, with a particular focus on human resource management that encourages voluntary changes in behavior. Currently, based on the idea that“people have the power to grow on their own”, we are moving from human resource development centered on guidance to developing activities that Akita Zinc, located in the waterfront area in the city of Akita, is the largest zinc smelter in Japan incorporate ways of involvement, such as support and facilitation to promote awareness and personal growth. with more than 200 employees. Zinc is an important material that supports industry and life as In the future, we will promote the creation of an environment where human resources with shared goals can anti-corrosive metal plating for such things as automobiles and building materials, and as a corrosion each be active in autonomous and self-propelled Initiatives. resistant component for ships and bridges, etc. Akita Zinc is the smelter with the largest market share in Japan, producing about 200,000 tons of zinc annually. It also achieves world-class quality using What External Evaluation Aims For our unique technologies such as the hematite method. In FY 2015, Akita Zinc was the ﬁrst company in Akita Prefecture to be recognized as a“Youth Yell”company with certiﬁcation by the Minister of A Virtuous Circle of “Recruitment”, “Training” and “Retention” Health, Labor and Welfare that the company is active in recruiting and training young people, and has excellent employment management. Since At Akita Zinc, in order to strengthen the production base through human resource strategy, we are then, the company has continued to be certiﬁed for ﬁve years. In FY 2017, the promoting initiatives with the aim that the three areas of recruitment, training and retention function company received the Human Resources Development Director’ s Award of well. Akita Prefecture is the region in Japan where the population is declining at the largest pace, and the“Good Career Company Award”that the Ministry of Health, Labor and we need to cope with the drop in the working population, with the falling birthrate, aging of the Welfare awards to companies that have model employee career development population and increasing employment mobility. In order to secure human resources, it is important support. In addition, it has received high praise for helping employees balance not only to increase new hires, but also train and retain employees that leads to further recruitment. work and childcare, such as the“Baby Wave Action Chairman’ s Award”that is awarded to model companies Therefore, we are engaged in recruiting activities to prevent mismatches, and in addition to creating in the area of stopping the declining birthrate, certiﬁcation by the city of Akita that the company is contributing a working environment where it is easy to work, we are working to develop human resources that will to a town for healthy children, and the child care support leader declaration of the Akita City Ikuboss make each person feel the job is more worthwhile and satisfying so they can show oﬀ their abilities. Declaration. Getting external evaluation is not only recognition from the outside that the company is a place where it is Substantial recruitment activities easy to work, but recognition through the third party’ s evaluation is an opportunity for employees to feel proud • Careful explanation of the working system and job details about their own workplace, and has the eﬀect of reminding employees that their company is a place where it is Maintain a low turnover 1 • Akita region group recruiting, etc. easy to work. In addition, by getting the awards, since the points of praise are clariﬁed, such as the low turnover rate Recruitment rate and the high rate of taking paid vacation, it also helps to strengthen and deepen our eﬀorts. “Youth Yell” company Akita Zinc promotes the creation of a business foundation centered on the“people”who support the sources Have paid Corporate Philosophy certiﬁcation of manufacturing through various initiatives that take advantage of internal and external viewpoints. vacation of more than Seeking the vitality of 10 days a year workers, and contribut3 ing to society through environmentally friendly 2 Good Career Company VOICE Retention “manufacturing”. Training Award The decrease in the population is often viewed as a negative for both the national and local economies and the company, but it has given us a strong opportunity to change. Previously, economic indicators such as production volume and sales were the main management indicators, but in Education & career development addition to that, as a measure for nurturing and retaining human resources, we have conducted Improvement of the working environment • Mentor system employee satisfaction surveys, quantitatively evaluated motivation and job satisfaction, and can now • Special leave system such as wedding • Seminars by external lecturers consider more speciﬁc measures and improvements. We believe that the vitality of workers is the leave and spouse maternity leave • Obtain career counselor • Stress checking and counseling source of good “manufacturing” that leads to customer trust and satisfaction. The level of satisfaction Improve qualifications, etc. • Employee satisfaction surveys, etc. labor still has a way to go, but while respecting each other’s values, and with each thinking and acting productivity individually, we would like to pursue a richness of spirit and an improvement in our corporate values. 45 MIURA Takahiro, Manager, General Aﬀairs Department, AKITA ZINC 46  Relationship with Stakeholders Social Area CSR Policy At the DOWA Group, at each oﬃce and department, we communicate with our major stakeholders through •We will aim to create a workplace where diversity and the human rights of employees are various methods of communication, including customers, shareholders, investors, suppliers, local communities respected, and each person can demonstrate their maximum abilities with satisfaction and pride and employees. •In unity with the local community, we will promote social contributions that reﬂect the unique characteristics of the local community ●Responsibilities and opportunities for communication to major stakeholders Progress of Activities The status of activities in the area of society in FY 2018 and the plan for FY 2019 are as follows. ●FY 2018 Results Shareholders of our Key social measures Tasks Indicator Evaluation Main Results All customers who use group, including individuEmployment for the physically challenged 2.2% △ Strengthening of recruitment activities al and institutional products and services Implementation of female employee Attendance rate 90% investors provided by our group training and management training Attendance rate 90% ○ (female employee training 93% and management training 88%) ■Six mid-level employees participated in the global Maximization of our corporate Stably supply products & services Responsibility challenge program (Thailand, Singapore, Indonesia, U.S. value Expansion of a global human Responsibility and India) Ensure quality & safety resources [Details] Cultivating overseas work skills through three Dividends Promoting Implement a global diversity Strengthen human resources challenge program ○ months of domestic training and three months of Information disclosure & Provide environmentally friendly products overseas on-the-job training dialogue Seek customer satisfaction (CS) and organizations at oﬃces ■10 managers participated in training for foreign location overseas managers (Indonesia, Singapore, Thailand and China) Appropriately manage customer information [Details] Creating organizational missions & sharing General Meeting of Shareholders cases of trouble overseas Various seminars, exhibitions,Tours Financial result brieﬁngs & Opportunities Opportunities Implementation of training to strengthen Recruitment staﬀ meetings held at six major DOWA Various environmental PR recruitment abilities at each company Hold at all the major sites ○ locations (Odate, Kosaka, Akita, Tokyo, Chubu, Okayama and Yanahara) brieﬁngs for investors Tours Disclose information on our website Thorough disseminate of the Updating and publicizing the hand Finished updating the handbook to explain the Publishing the annual report and Joint research & development Promoting various regulations in the company book to explain the regulation △ regulation (scheduled to be publicized in-house in FY 2019) business reports Shareholders & Customers Disclose information on our investors work-life Encouragement to use annual paid vacation Rate of days taken 60% ○ Rate of days taken 70% website balance Promotion of measures to Thorough and strict observance of group Thorough operation of group management reduce working hours management standards for working hours ○ standards for working hours Implementaion of training of evaluators Human and those being evaluated 300 participants △ 247 people resource development, Implementaion of an institutional survey Done by 1,100 people (100% answer rate) △ 60% DOWA evaluation & Evaluation system education for new employees Attendance rate 100% ○ Attendance rate 100% treatment group Introduction of career planning seminars Attendance rate 30% × Attendance rate 2% In Thailand, Indonesia and Myanmar, implemented Employees who Employees Suppliers Promotion of regional contribution work at our group (employees & activities that capture regional needs 5 times ○ next-generation development support activities and their families) Social environmental conservation activities with local residents and their families contribution Support by sharing and Collect examples of Did a survey of initiatives targeting operating providing information on social ○ subsidiaries Published in the group report Suitable evaluation & treatment initiatives and provide Disseminated information to the outside via Responsibility contribution activities information the DOWA Holdings website Secure diverse human resources & human resource development Local ●FY 2019 Initiatives and Goals Ensure occupational safety and health communities Respect for human rights Employment for the physically challenged 2.2% Promoting work-life balance Interview each location about improving Draft measures in order to create workplaces where Partners who cooperate with the work environment Management conferences us in providing the products it is easy to work Labor & management interviews and services of our group Expansion of a global human resources Implement a global challenge program Opportunities Promoting Human resource education & environStrengthen human resources and Short-term intensive English language training diversity organizations at oﬃces overseas Training of foreign location managers mental education, in-house events Group newsletters & the portal site Select suppliers based on fair Responsibility Strengthen relationships with universities and & impartial standards Clarify priority schools DOWA Consultation Desk technical colleges Support CSR and environmenDevelop routes to employ those with Clarify routes for employment Plant tours for the employees of tal activities in the supply mechanical and electrical skills families, etc. chain Thorough internal awareness of the various Various brieﬁngs for suppliers regulations in the company Publicizing the handbook to explain the regulation Everyone in the community about CSR procurement, etc. Promoting A rate of 70% for the days taken who we are involved with Opportunities Quality & CSR audits work-life Encourage the use of annual paid vacation Promote company-wide measures to encourage the through each of our group balance taking of paid vacation oﬃces and our main business Corporate ethics point of ｃontact Thorough and strict observance of group management Promotion of measures to reduce working hours standards for working hours Various seminars, exhibitions Environmental conservation activities & & tours Responsibility Implement training of evaluators and educational activities brieﬁngs for those being evaluated 300 students DOWA Consultation Desk Contribution to regional promotion through Human Conduct surveys about the degree of penetration support for activities such as culture and sports resource A response rate of 100% (targeting 1,100 people) and understanding of the personnel system Information disclosure & dialogue development, evaluation & Evaluation system education for new employees Attendance rate 100% Plant tours for local people treatment Opportunities Implement career training for new and young employees Attendance rate: 100% Participating in community organizations Promote career planning seminars Attendance rate: 10% Sponsor, participate in & support community events Social Activities related to education for children 4 times Risk communication contribution Activities related to regional revitalization 4 times 47 48 Communication with Shareholders and Investors Together with Our Customers and Business Partners The DOWA Group works to improve customer satisfaction by providing better products and services, and to At the DOWA Group, we recognize that the explanation of corporate and management information to build long-term relationships of trust with its business partners. In addition, we are promoting CSR initiatives stakeholders, such as shareholders and investors, is one of important issues for corporate governance , and we through the supply chain, including environmental conservation and improvement in the working environment. are striving to disclose information in a timely and appropriate manner. ●Providing IR information ●Supply Chain Management We hold brieﬁng sessions by management for our order for the business situation and business We promotes CSR throughout the whole supply “Responsible Mineral Procurement Policy”(P. 23-24). quarterly ﬁnancial result announcements. In addition, strategies of the DOWA Group to be understood, we chain by distributing to business partners and In addition, as a supplier ourselves, we may receive we also arrange opportunities to explain management also post IR information on our suppliers the “DOWA Group CSR Procurement requests for CSR procurement from customers, but in information directly to investors in Japan and company website. In addition to Guidelines”that pull together our CSR procurement order to correctly understand and respond promptly, overseas. As a tool to report the management policies ﬁnancial statements and securities policies and code of conduct, and by seeking the environment & safety department and the and situation of the company, we also publish the reports, we also post materials understanding about our company’ s approach to CSR. procurement department collaborate to implement annual report and other reports in Japanese, English such as annual reports and in FY 2018, we revised it in line with review of the internal explanation and follow-up. and Chinese, and we work to disclose information shareholder communications. Self-check assessment that is appropriate and highly transparent. We will keep working to disclose In FY 2018, we launched a new e-mail delivery In FY 2018, in order to conﬁrm the status of CSR information in a timely and service that provides our latest IR information and eﬀorts, we distributed a self-check questionnaire to Results of the FY 2018 self-check questionnaire easy-to-understand manner. major news releases to shareholders and investors. In about 100 major business partners and suppliers, and (average value for answers) collected about 95% of them. For those business IR information website: https://www.dowa.co.jp/jp/ir/index.html partners and suppliers who we received answers Compliance with laws and regulations Web from, we sent them a feedback report, telling them 76.2% 100% about the status of the current evaluation. While the ●General Meeting of Shareholders overall trend did not change compared to the 80% Information 60% Sustainability For FY 2018, the 115th ordinary general meeting of In addition, we set up a separate presentation room previous FY, looking at it by sector, we found that protection human rights 40% shareholders was held at the Hotel Chinzan-so in at the venue where the executives can explain the initiatives for social contribution were weak. 80.2% 20% & labor 83.1% Tokyo on June 26th, with about 400 shareholders topics of the DOWA Group. For FY 2018, a CSR audits 0% attending. After the general meeting of shareholders, presentation was given about the business With regards to important suppliers, we actually visit we hold a social gathering aimed at promoting development of DOWA Metals & Mining entitled them, and together with telling them our thinking about Sustainability Sustainability communication with shareholders. There, we set up a “DOWA’ s Resource Development: Initiatives to social & community health & safety CSR procurement, we also check their conformity with contributions 82.9% forum for dialogue with executives and a product Ensure Long-term Stability of Zinc Raw Materials”. the DOWA Group CSR Procurement Guidelines. In FY 65.6% exhibition section for each business. 2018, we visited six raw material and auxiliary material Sustainability environmental manufacturers that are important for our manufacturing conservation 77.9% business. At the places we visit, we interview them about the questionnaire results, check documents, and conﬁrm site safety and environmental initiatives. In addition, the audit results are compiled in a report and conﬁrmed so that they can be used in future CSR initiatives. Regarding the importance of CSR in the supply chain, we will keep working to further improve CSR while strengthening the partnership with suppliers by getting their understanding. ●Quality Control ●Dialogue with institutional investors At the DOWA Group, we position“quality”as an system for major overseas business sites. Besides the quarterly ﬁnancial statement brieﬁngs by interviews, working so that they can understand our important management standard for manufacturing. In addition, as an initiative to strengthen quality the company president and management, we hold such business and business plans. We regularly report to Major manufacturing plants have obtained international control, we put eﬀort into conﬁrming the quality of things as business brieﬁngs. management the opinions that we receive during these standard ISO 9001 certiﬁcation for our quality control procured items. In cooperation with suppliers, we aim to In addition, IR representatives visit institutional investors dialogues, which are useful to improve management. systems. We strive to improve the quality of products ensure the quality of procured items from the aspect of in Japan and overseas, and also give individual and services by continuously operating these quality quality and technology by implementing supplier control systems based on PDCA. In FY 2018, we surveys and inspections at appropriate intervals. The main opinions we received in FY 2018 with regards to CSR conducted an audit of our internal quality control ● I would like non-ﬁnancial information to be actively disclosed, as it leads to ﬁnancial information. ● The business of the DOWA Group can be summarized as environment and resource recycling. I think ●Response to Comments and Opinions that you can appeal as a distinctive entity throughout the company. ● Please explain how CSR goals and priority measures have led to midto long-term enhancement of With regards to opinions and inquiries that we have classify, analyze and evaluate the information corporate value. received from customers, we strive to supply gathered at each business site, which leads to ● It is easy to understand if web information is organized by ESG. satisfactory products by aiming to promptly make development and improvement of our products and appropriate improvements. We aim to improve the services. 49 information sharing and management system, and we 50 Together With Regional Society With initiatives in the social ﬁeld, the DOWA Group is working on regional contributions as a priority measure. In each of our domestic and overseas locations, we are actively developing community-based CSR activities such as factory tours, accepting interns, hosting sports events and communicating with local communities in order to progress and develop together with the region. ●The DOWA Group’ s Social Contribution Activities [Domestic] [Overseas] [Tokyo] Students Took a Field Trip Tour of Our Headquarters Initiatives in Myanmar In May 2018, as part of a school trip, 47 third-year students from As Myanmar’ s ﬁrst private waste treatment facility, GOLDEN DOWA Kosaka Junior High School at Kosaka town, Akita Prefecture, the area ECO-SYSTEM MYANMAR (hereinafter referred to as GEM), which is of our company’ s birthplace, visited the headquarters of DOWA in the located in the Tirawa Economic Zone in the suburbs of Yangon, Akihabara area of Tokyo. In these tours that started from 2013, after provides comprehensive waste management solutions such as they tour our oﬃces and we explain our business, every year the transportation, sorting, intermediate treatment, recycling and landﬁll students come up with ingenious presentations, such as song or dance, of waste. and it becomes a place for mutual exchange. In FY 2018, which was Not only contributing to society through its business, GEM aims to the sixth time, a choir of the students performed the school song and get the trust of society through CSR activities, and to grow together. In nursery songs. In addition, the students presented us with a calendar line with the CSR policy of the DOWA Group, GEM is working on CSR using the “Kosaka Municipal Day Map” prepared by the Kosaka activities for all four areas of corporate governance, safety, the Revitalization Action Project and photos of the town. environment and society. In promoting social contribution, a priority measure, and in order to contribute to the local development of Myanmar, we are actively engaged in activities [Akita Prefecture] The DOWA Cup Junior Cross-Country Ski Tournament at Lake Towada that improve the lives of local residents and support children who will lead the future. The DOWA Cup, held on the shore of Lake Towada in Akita Workshops for Neighborhood Residents Prefecture, is a historic junior cross-country ski tournament that As a place to deepen exchanges with local people, from the time started in 1991, and it is certiﬁed as an oﬃcial event of the Ski that the facilities were constructed, every May and November GEM Association of Akita. It also serves as a Jr. Olympics representative holds workshops for the neighborhood residents that explain the selection race, and one of the features is the sit ski competition that is business, and lectures and events on the theme of health and safety. held, an oﬃcial event of the Paralympics. Over 100 staﬀ are involved At the tenth workshop in November 2018, we explained the in its operation, including our employees and people from operational status of our business sites, as well as safety and neighborhood councils and local ski clubs etc. It takes over a month environmental initiatives. Also, to improve road safety, there was a to prepare the courses. For more than a quarter of a century, the event lecture given about the safety of driving motorcycles as a common has deepened the bond between the DOWA Group and the people of way of transport, with about 50 residents participating. the local community, such as cooperating in setting up the venue and Tours for Residents taking it down at the end. In February 2019, for the 29th DOWA Cup, 245 children from elementary and junior GEM’ s CSR activities are based on the building of mutual trust, and high schools in the three Tohoku region prefectures participated and competed in the races. at the same time as understanding the situation of local residents, working to disclose information about the company. Approximately [Okayama Prefecture] 9th Lake Kojima Flower Corridor Cherry Blossom Festival 1,000 residents live in the villages near the district of Tirawa, where GEM is located, including those who work for the company as The Lake Kojima Flower Corridor Supporters’Club (KFSC) is an employees. In January 2019, we held a second tour of our business organization established primarily by the DOWA Group to improve sites so that local residents could actually see GEM’ s waste treatment the environment around Lake Kojima and its surroundings in the facilities. The tour was attended by 80 people, including adults as well memory of Denzaburo Fujita, the founder of the DOWA Group, who as local children, who saw the status of each facility as explained by was known for reclaiming Kojima Bay in the city of Okayama. We local staﬀ. Through these opportunities, GEM can feel more familiar to promote regional exchange and environmental conservation activities the local people, and we hope that this will also lead to an interest in through the Flower Corridor Project that plants and nurtures Kawazu waste treatment. cherry trees around Lake Kojima. The Flower Corridor Project is a Children’s Day Events system where each cherry tree has a plate with the name of the In Myanmar, every February 13th is“Children’ s Day”when families supporter written on it, and the person planting voluntarily manages it. celebrate and wish for the growth of their cherished children. GEM We are working with local people, including for the planting and care holds an event in February each year and invites nearby children to of the trees. When the Kawazu cherry trees blossom in early March, we hold a cherry blossom festival with the commemorate Children’ s Day. For FY 2018, the 3rd event was held on cooperation of the local neighborhood associations and volunteer groups. In FY 2018, the 9th Lake Kojima February 17th, and gifts of sweets and soy milk were given to about Flower Corridor Cherry Blossom Festival was held on March 11th, with about 20,000 people visiting. 300 local children who participated. In the future, we would like to continue initiatives that the local children would enjoy. 51 52 Together with Employees ●Human Resource Development and Evaluation As a vision for human resources and our create human resources and organizations that will The DOWA Group speciﬁes that human resources are the basis of all business activities, and employees are o r g a n i z a t i o n , t h e D O W A G r o u p a i m s t o“ B y continue to provide new value to society.”We are evaluated for their ability to do their jobs, regardless of diﬀerences in their educational background, seniority respecting a solid and free corporate culture and developing various human resource development and gender. We have taken various initiatives so that employees can exercise their full potential. building a founfation for long-term growth, we will and utilization measures for all employees. Fair evaluation & treatment ●Employment status At the DOWA Group, based on the principle of Training for evaluators and those being evaluated is Europe 0.1% At the end of FY 2018 (March 31st, 2019), the number of employees in “evaluating employees for their ability to proceed their positioned as a group-wide initiative. By setting up North America Latin America 0.1% Japan was 6,359, up 265 people the year before. Of the regular 1.7% tasks on their own”, we are working for fair evaluation opportunities for ongoing training, we strive for employees in Japan, there were 4,049 men (91%) and 388 women (9%). and treatment under the following policies. appropriate evaluation, treatment and training. As a With globalization, the proportion of employees at oﬃces overseas is training opportunity, we plan to cover all employees of the increasing, and the number of employees overseas in FY 2018 was about group over three years. In addition to getting Asia FY 2018 Employee Japan ●For evaluators and those being evaluated, 34% of the total. In addition, the total number of new graduate and (besides Japan) 65.6% understanding of the system, as a key point for the three 32.5% numbers by region deepen understanding of the standards and mid-career hires in the group as a whole was 230 men and 31 women, structure of the system, and utilize appropriate years from FY 2018, we are conducting “interview an increase of about 15% from the year before. The retention rate three evaluations and training. training” aimed at promoting communication with years after joining the company has been around 90%, with women subordinates. We also conduct a survey every year in ●While sharing organizational goals, and getting order to evaluate the operational status of the system. The tending to be higher. understanding of the abilities and behaviors required of their job grade, try to improve their identiﬁed issues will be added as new items for [ Employment related data ] No. of employees by region work performance. improvement in the next year’ s brieﬁng for those being Employment situation in Japan (DOWA Group) (including non-consolidated) evaluated and evaluator training. We are striving to Type of FY FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 promote understanding of the system for employees, and Region FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 employee Classiﬁcation Men Women Men Women Men Women for its appropriate operation. Executive oﬃcers 128 1 125 1 120 1 Japan 6,072 6,094 6,359 Regular Education and training system employees Management employees 758 9 778 10 754 13 Asia in Japan 2,899 3,092 3,148 General employees 2,901 311 2,948 326 3,175 374 (besides Japan) From new employees to managers, we have established stratiﬁed Non-regular Dispatched employees 633 709 720 Europe 23 14 14 education according to job classiﬁcation, and have set up an education employees FY 2018 No. in Japan Part-time 1,050 281 897 300 839 363 North America 96 131 166 system of selective education in order to nurture the next generation of of training students leaders at each level. We also conduct training and meetings to FY 2018 Training Total 5,470 602 5,457 637 5,608 751 Latin America 1 4 4 1,406 time per participant Grand total 6,072 6,094 6,359 Total 9,091 9,335 9,691 implement shared awareness and ediﬁcation. In FY 2018, we held new training to strengthen middle management for managers and held a 29 hours / year human resource development manager meeting to strengthen on-site Employee Retention Rate (DOWA Group new graduate and mid-career hires combined) capabilities at each site. In the selective education, we also provide FY 2016 (as of the end of FY 2018) opportunities for self development, with such things as correspondence Year they joined the company Men Women education and e-learning, which are easy to use with few restrictions Avg. retention rate after 3 years in the company% 88% 100% on time and place, and external interactive education. Avg. retention rate 89% [ Education System Example ] (Targeting DOWA Holdings and the operating companies) Target employees & New & young people Mid-level & leaders Managers Top executives TO P I CS classiﬁcation 1st year 2nd & 3rd years 【Follow-up I training】【Follow-up Ⅳ training】【5th rank training for 【Coaching training】 Improve job newly appointed】 Act-B Recycling Certiﬁed as a “Bright Company” performance abilities Career & motivation Leadership Training subordinates All 【Follow-up Ⅲ training】 【Newly appointed In Kumamoto Prefecture, in order to improve the working manager training】 employees 【New employee education】 Membership & introspection Management Stratiﬁed environment and treatment of workers in the whole prefecture, education 【Follow-up Ⅱ training】 【Training to strengthen and to promote youth employment in the prefecture, a Poster session middle management】 company where workers can shine brightly and continue 【Training to strengthen 【Training to strengthen 【Training to strengthen Technology working with peace of mind is certiﬁed as a “Bright Company” engineering abilitiesⅠ】 engineering abilities Ⅱ】 engineering abilities Ⅲ】 (a phrase coined by Kumamoto Prefecture to express the 【Business leader training】 Development of the opposite of a “black company” that exploits its employees.) It next management is an initiative to widely disseminate the excellent activities of Business 【Problem solving & thinking ability training program】 such companies. In October 2018, Act-B Recycling, which Selective 【Training to strengthen skills does electrical appliance recycling in the city of Minamata, for leading subordinates】 education was certiﬁed as the second Bright Company in the southern district of the prefecture, recognizing the 【Global challenge degree of their contribution to local employment and to the local community, the improvement in the program】 level of satisfaction for employees and their families, and initiatives for stable management. Global 【Training before taking up a new post】 53 54 ●Promoting Diversity Re-employment of retired workers ●Work-Life Balance Optimization of Working Hours At the DOWA Group, we believe that diversiﬁed Utilizing their technical skills and knowledge, for With the aim of harmonizing work and life, we are We are working to reduce long working hours and human resources with various values and points of employees who wish to continue working even after enhancing the system to support work-life balance, promote the taking of annual paid leave so that view who can fully demonstrate their individuality their retirement, we are striving to improve the and are developing a workplace environment where it employees can work with health and vigor in both and abilities will lead to the growth of the company. environment so that they can work with more is easy to work, so that it is possible for employees to mind and body. With the attendance system managed motivation. In addition, for the purpose of providing maximize their abilities according to their lifestyle. by the head oﬃce, we are managing time through the Training of Global Human Resources information about a second career after retirement, computer logs, and when a certain level of working As part of promoting diversity, we are working on we hold a life planning seminar for employees who Supporting Various Working Styles hours are exceeded, an improvement plan must be creating a mechanism from the recruitment stage have reached a certain age. We have also established submitted to the manager. There is also an interview At our company, we introduced a ﬂex-time system based on the idea of working globally regardless of an investigative committee on the employment of the with an industrial physician depending on the number without core time so that employees can work nationality. In addition to actively hiring Japanese elderly, and are discussing ways to utilize this human of overtime hours. The average overtime hours in FY according to the ﬂuctuations and characteristics of and foreign students who have graduated from resource in the future. 2018 were 18.2 hours per month, an 8% decrease the job. In addition, besides volunteer leave and a overseas universities, and international students from from the previous year, so it is improving. To optimize relaxation leave system where employees get days oﬀ overseas, with the expansion of employing people in working hours, we will continue to strive to manage for a certain length of service, we have prepared various countries and regions, at the time of hiring, we FY 2018 No. working hours with both hard and soft measures. support measures beyond what is stipulated by the provide education to communicate our philosophy re-employed With regards to annual paid leave in FY 2018, with law, such as paid leave for nursing sick children (up to and policies, together with a consideration for human 20 days on average granted, employees took about ﬁve days), limitations on transfers that involve moving rights. We are also working to develop global human Men Women 70% of their vacation days, an increase of 7% from the for the reason of childcare, partial subsidies for resources, such as conducting “global challenge 46 2 childcare expenses and a leave system due to life year before. Besides promoting the planning of yearly program”training for mid-level employees where they people people paid leave according to the business situation at each events. The number of people using these systems has go to overseas locations other than their own business site, by changing the awareness of increased every year. In FY 2018, the number of department to work on solving problems. employees with such things as feedback on the people who took childcare leave was 33, and 35 men Promotion of Women’s Participation and Advancement and 28 women took leave for nursing sick children. number of days taken during the year, the number of There is no distinction according to gender in how Employment for the physically challenged leave days taken improves year by year. Those Taking Child-Care Leave & Leave for Nursing Sick Children people work, and regardless of whether in Japan or (Days) （％） In FY 2018, for the DOWA Group as a whole, the FY FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 overseas, female employees are also active in such ﬁelds Number of People 25 100 employment rate for the physically challenged was Took (People) as manufacturing, research and development, production Man Woman Man Woman Man Woman 1.3%, and we were unable to reach the statutory 20 20 20 20 20 90 management, sales and accounting. For hiring, promotion Child-Care Leave 0 28 2 32 2 31 20 employment rate. On the other hand, the number of and advancement as well, evaluation is done according to Leave for Nursing 24 24 27 26 35 28 80 such employees hired is on the rise. In order to promote Sick Children 15 14 the abilities of the person. For the hiring of women for 13 13 the employment of the physically challenged, we will 12 12 70 regular positions, it is about 10% to 20% of people hired 70％ continue to provide opportunities for workplace In-house Questionnaire 10 overall, and the number of female managers is 1.7%. The 65.6％ 60 63％ experiences, and to create a workplace environment We conduct a questionnaire on work-life balance for 59％ 60.5％ number is certainly not high, but it is on an increasing that accepts them and where it is easy for them to new employees every year. Following from the previous 5 50 trend year by year, along with changes in the business and work. In FY 2019, we are recruiting with an expansion year, in FY 2018, those who wished to take child-care workplace environments. In particular, the number of 0 0 in the types of jobs. and family-care leave were more than 80%, including domestic general employees has increased by nearly 50. FY 2014 FY 2015 FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 In addition, from FY 2017, we launched diversity career （People） （%） men. It seems that changes are occurring in how people training and diversity management training to support the think about the balance between work and family. Avg. days granted (Days) advancement of women, and we are working to expand Against the background of the improvement in the Avg. days taken (Days) Rate of days taken（％） 80 2.0 education for women employees. utilization rate of the current system, such as leave for At our company, despite arranging a workplace 70 70 nursing sick children, in addition to promoting the 70 69 environment where it is easy for women who are raising improvement of the workplace environment so that it is children to work, such as a ﬂex-time system without core 60 easy to use the system, the impact of the change in 60 57 awareness by such employees can be said to be time and assistance for child-rearing costs, it is a problem 1.5 signiﬁcant. that the proportion of continued employment is lower than that of male employees. In the future, we will actively 50 1.3％ 1.3％ On the other hand, to balance work and family, there Not that necessary 1.4％ 1.4％ 1.4％ Unnecessary 2% work on improving the system to balance work and family was also a wide range of opinions requesting that 4% life and to change awareness, with a numerical target of 40 speciﬁc measures be expanded, such as initiatives to Unknown 80% or more for the continued employment of women improve the rate at which annual paid vacation is taken, 8% hired 10 years ago, so it is about the same as men. 30 1.0 and systematic implementation of telecommuting. We Those Desiring to Percentage of female workers by position will keep working on work-life balance initiatives with Deﬁnitely want Take Child-Care Want to use if possible Position FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 these opinions in mind. to use 42% Leave 44% 0 0.0 Executive oﬃcers 0.8% 0.8% 0.8% FY 2014 FY 2015 FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 Management employees 1.2% 1.3% 1.7% No. hired (People) Employment rate (%) General employees 9.7% 10.0% 10.5% 55 56 Editorial Policy (1) Areas covered in this report (2) Publishing of the Website Version ■Target Organizations This report highlights and reports CSR activities of the DOWA group, DOWA Holdings and subsidiaries (both in Japan and other focusing on some important points, to provide an overview of those countries) that are included in our consolidated accounting are activities in an easy-to-understand way. For more details, visit our selected in these reports. Data on some of our eﬀorts are only website. Check our website for detailed information about the topics associated to DOWA Holdings and other major companies of the with below mark. group. ■Target Areas of the Report Web This report was prepared based on the four areas of the DOWA Group’s CSR policy ‒ Corporate Governance, Safety, Environment, If mistakes are found after publication of the CSR report, we will and Society. We report on each policy, the status of progress for report it on our website. important issues and initiatives of the target organizations. ■Target Audience This report is intended for our customers, stockholders, investors, (3) Basic Information ■Publication date: December 2019 Opinion of a Third Party E-Square Inc. clients, local communities, researchers, students, employees, rating ■Next scheduled publication date: November 2020 & evaluation agencies, governmental agencies, NGO’s, NPO’s and all ■Department that prepared the report: President and Chief Executive Oﬃcer DOWA CSR Report 2019 About the Details of the Report MOTOKI Hiroo stakeholders of the DOWA group’s business activities. Environment & Safety Department, DOWA Holdings ■Target Period ■Website URL We mainly report on the activities of FY 2018 (April 2018 to March https://www.dowa.co.jp (Japanese) The DOWA Group’ s initiatives, which can be read from the CSR 2019), but in order to convey more accurate information, we also https://www.dowa.co.jp/index_e.html (English) report about some of our previous initiatives or most recent activities. ■Inquiries Report, are making steady progress every year. For this ﬁscal year, ■Reference Guidelines Environment & Safety Department, DOWA Holdings UN Global Compact 22F, Akihabara UDX., 4-14-1 Sotokanda, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo, there were pages allocated to the company history, disclosure of ISO 26000 101-0021 Japan ﬁnancial and non-ﬁnancial indicators and an explanation of the ﬁve Environmental Reporting Guidelines (2018 version) by Japan’s TEL：03-6847-1104 FAX：03-6847-1277 Ministry of the Environment Email: info_dowa@dowa.co.jp business areas. There were also explanations about such things as the identiﬁcation of materiality in the chronology under“Materiality Business Sites Subject to Tabulation and Medium-Term CSR Goals”, the selection of priority measures and details about conducting risk assessment in the areas of ESG. As Company Region Company Region priority measures, responsible mineral procurement initiatives were ES ECO-SYSTEM AKITA CO., LTD. Akita prefecture MT DOWA POWER DEVICE CO., LTD. Nagano prefecture explained in detail, and link to their website, they disclosed such ES ECO-SYSTEM CHIBA CO., LTD. Chiba prefecture TH DOWA THERMOENGINEERING CO., LTD. Ohta plant Gunma prefecture things as the revised Responsible Mineral Procurement Policy and the ES ECO-SYSTEM SANYO CO., LTD. Okayama prefecture TH DOWA THERMOENGINEERING CO., LTD. Mooka plant Tochigi prefecture results of audits by third parties. In addition, improvements were seen ES MELTECH LTD. Tochigi prefecture TH DOWA THERMOENGINEERING CO., LTD. Hamamatsu plant Shizuoka prefecture throughout the report, including enhancements to the explanation of ES ECO-SYSTEM JAPAN CO., LTD. Tokyo other TH DOWA THERMOENGINEERING CO., LTD. Hamamatsu-kita plant Shizuoka prefecture corporate governance, explanations of risk management including ES ECO-SYSTEM HANAOKA CO., LTD. Akita prefecture TH DOWA THERMOENGINEERING CO., LTD. Chukyo Handa plant Aichi prefecture business risks and CSR risks, and analysis of the causes of accidents Domestic ES GREEN FILL KOSAKA CO., LTD. Akita prefecture TH DOWA THERMOENGINEERING CO., LTD. Shiga plant Shiga prefecture at work. ES GEOTECHNOS CO., LTD. Tokyo TH CEMM CO., LTD. Aichi prefecture Tokyo HD DOWA TECHNOENGINEERING CO., LTD. Okayama prefecture Towards Further Improvement ES E&E Solutions Inc. In the list of CSR plans and goals, there were explanations of ES ECO-SYSTEM RECYCLING CO., LTD. East Japan plant Saitama prefecture HD UNEKURA MINING CO., LTD. Northern oﬃce Akita prefecture indicators to understand the progress for each priority measure, with ES ECO-SYSTEM RECYCLING CO., LTD. West Japan plant Okayama prefecture HD UNEKURA MINING CO., LTD. Western oﬃce Okayama prefecture the text showing the progress of activities in each of the four priority From 1992, he worked on ES ECO-SYSTEM RECYCLING CO., LTD. Northern Japan plant Akita prefecture HD DOWA HOLDINGS CO., LTD. Tokyo headquarters Tokyo areas, so you can know the state of progress for the whole company. information system ES ECO-SYSTEM KOSAKA CO., LTD. Akita prefecture HD DOWA TECHNO RESEARCH CO., LTD. Akita prefecture On the other hand, what I am concerned about is that there are construction, strategic ES ECO-SYSTEM OKAYAMA CO., LTD. Okayama prefecture ES PT. PRASADHA PAMUNAH LIMBAH INDUSTRI Indonesia issues that seem directly related to the business that are not included planning and environmental ES ECO-RECYCLE CO., LTD. Akita prefecture ES BANGPOO ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLEX LTD. Thailand in the elements of the materiality matrix, or the four priority areas. management at the ES Act-B Recycling Co., Ltd. Kumamoto prefecture ES EASTERN SEABOARD ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLEX CO., LTD. Thailand For example, it does not include the issue of responsible mineral Deloitte Tohmatsu Group. Domestic procurement. In the reviews scheduled for FY 2020 and beyond, if From April 2001, as the ES AUTO RECYCLE AKITA CO., LTD. Akita prefecture ES TECHNOCHEM ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLEX PTE. LTD. Singapore they can further integrate their business and CSR, and evaluate and person responsible for the ES DOWA TSUUN CO., LTD. Iwate prefecture ES DOWA ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT CO.,LTD.(Suzuhou, China) China analyze it, I think there will be consistency as a company. consulting business at MM KOSAKA SMELTING & REFINING CO., LTD. Akita prefecture ES DOWA ECO-SYSTEM SINGAPORE PTE. LTD. Singapore In the explanation of business areas, it would also be good to E-Square, he provided MM NIPPON PGM CO., LTD. Akita prefecture MM NIPPON PGM AMERICA, INC. America mention such things as related social and environmental issues and support in areas such as MM AKITA ZINC CO., LTD. Akita prefecture MM DOWA METALS & MINING (THAILAND) CO., LTD. Thailand the dilemma for business. For example, conﬂict minerals and the risk Sustainability/CSR, MM AKITA RARE METALS CO., LTD. Akita prefecture MT DOWA ADVANCED MATERIALS (SHANGHAI) CO., LTD. China of human rights violations are described as priority measures, but environmental and CSV Overseas MM AKITA ZINC SOLUTIONS CO., LTD. Akita prefecture MT DOWA METALTECH (THAILAND) CO., LTD. Thailand since these are not mentioned in the pages that report on each of the strategies, communications MM AKITA ZINC RECYCLING CO., LTD. Akita prefecture TH DOWA THT AMERICA, INC. America ﬁve business areas, I get the impression that the thinking of the and in-house dissemination EL DOWA SEMICONDUCTOR AKITA CO., LTD. Akita prefecture TH KUNSHAN DOWA THERMO FURNACE CO., LTD. China company is not uniﬁed. mainly for major companies Okayama prefecture TH Dowa Thermotech (Thailand) Co., Ltd. Thailand in a wide range of EL DOWA ELECTRONICS MATERIALS OKAYAMA CO., LTD. EL DOWA IP CREATION CO., LTD. Okayama prefecture TH PT. DOWA THERMOTECH INDONESIA Indonesia Expectations for Future Initiatives industries. In October 2011, Currently, in the medium to long-term value creation of companies, he became the president EL DOWA F-TEC CO., LTD. Okayama prefecture TH HIGHTEMP FURNACES LTD. Bangalore Plant India the importance of purpose (the reason for existing) has been globally and representative director MT DOWA METAL CO., LTD Shizuoka prefecture TH HIGHTEMP FURNACES LTD. Nelamangara Plant India recognized anew. In this regard, the DOWA Group’s corporate of E-Square. He has given MT DOWA METANIX CO., LTD Shizuoka prefecture TH HIGHTEMP FURNACES LTD. Gurgaon Plant India philosophy clearly states that“DOWA helps to create an aﬄuent, many lectures related to MT HOEI SHOJI CO., LTD. Chiba prefecture TH HIGHTEMP FURNACES LTD. Chennai Plant India recycling-oriented society through its business activities worldwide”. sustainability & CSR and MT NEW NIPPON BRASS CO., LTD. Chiba prefecture TH HIGHTEMP FURNACES LTD. Pune Plant India I think our company will be a stronger organization when all the ESG investment. MT DOWA HIGHTECH CO., LTD. Saitama prefecture employees re-recognize the relation between thier own business and the company’s purpose. I have great expectations for the DOWA ES DOWA ECO-SYSTEM CO., LTD. MM DOWA METALS & MINING CO., LTD. EL DOWA ELECTRONICS MATERIALS CO., LTD. Group’s ability to solve problems as a leader in the supply of valuable MT DOWA METAL CO., LTD. TH DOWA THERMOTECH CO., LTD. HD DOWA HOLDINGS CO., LTD. resources needed for human development. 57 58
