DESCRIPTION OF ACTIONS HUMAN RIGHTS INDEX GROUP, which does not have direct experience of human rights violation, is fully committed to upholding the principles of human rights through its business activities. INDEX GROUP has a written company policy that confirms its commitment to respect and support Human Rights. Through rigorous due diligence, we pledge to avoid infringing the rights of others, and to take steps to avoid negative human rights impact resulting from our work. We will adhere to international human rights standards in our activities and our relationships. This includes taking steps towards respect, protection and fulfilment for such rights as freedom of association and collective bargaining; the effective elimination of child labor and modern slavery; the elimination of all forms of racial and gender discrimination; and the realization of a workplace which positively empowers its employees and community of the broader world without discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation, physical ability, or mental illness. Beyond these elementary commitments, we intend to implement measures, which positively contribute to the realization of human rights, in particular through the creation of a diverse, inclusive and accessible workplace. LABOR INDEX GROUP actively continues to seek opportunities to develop the profile and of its female team members on the world stage and, where necessary, disrupt convention to achieve this goal. INDEX GROUP has its own “Anti-Harassment Policy” for the betterment of the workplace. INDEX GROUP has had no reported incidents of labor rights violations. INDEX GROUP does not condone, nor will it tolerate harassment or discrimination on account of race, age, sex, religion, national origin, sexual orientation, or disability of any employee by another person in the workplace. An employee who experiences a harassing or discriminating situation should, if at all possible, express his/her disapproval with the person(s) involved. If he/she does not feel comfortable approaching the individual(s), the employee should first contact his or her supervisor and/or the Anti-Harassment Committee. If any evidence (verbal or written) is found by the Committee, the person(s) directly involved with the harassment or bullying, provocation, in any form, will be suspended immediately pending inquiry. INDEX GROUP’s HR policy promote equal opportunities, equal wages, adherence to labor laws and standards of Bangladesh. ENVIRONMENT INDEX GROUP has low environmental impact in its day-to-day operations. It has however implemented a number of measures to mitigate the effects of its office operation. Solar Power and rain water harvesting systems are installed on the roof top of INDEX GROUP Tower. INDEX GROUP Centre is partially powered by solar energy. Eco-friendly carpets, a carpet made of natural fibers without any chemical treatments, are used in both the building premises. Total environment is designed in a way that can reduce energy consumption significantly. INDEX GROUP has installed 09 (nine) solar powered branches and 07 (seven) solar powered ATMs which save energy consumption significantly compared to other conventional banking outlets. The bank has an exclusive and very effective intranet system, called as M-Net which is one of the best solutions for internal communication, information sharing, employee education and electronic recording process. It has features like e-notice board, online leave management facility, e-dispatch, and e-attendance for the employees. All the Bangladesh Bank (BB) and INDEX GROUP circulars are instantly circulated through I-mail. Most of the communications within the bank has become absolutely online. Electronic communication substantially reduces paper consumption thereby reduce deforestation. INDEX GROUP is also seeking to support positive environmental change elsewhere in the world through its business operations. ANTI-CORRUPTION INDEX GROUP is fundamentally designed as a transparent and trustworthy means of transaction hub. It is INDEX GROUP’s policy to pursue all its business transactions in an honest and ethical manner. In doing business anywhere in the country, neither INDEX GROUP nor any person associated with it may offer, pay, promise, authorize or receive any bribe, kickback or illicit payment. INDEX GROUP has a zero-tolerance policy for corruption, bribery and extortion. We actively promote awareness about anticorruption practices amongst our public sector clients. Our goals over the next year are to continue to provide education for all staff and relevant clients about corruption, as well as what to do if one should encounter it. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES INDEX GROUP encourages a workplace with appropriate, ethical conduct, and recognizes the right for complaints to be made about the conduct of our people. INDEX GROUP will take all reasonable steps to protect those involved in a complaint from any victimization. Complaints will be managed confidentially, discreetly and courteously, and all records pertaining to complaints will be held in confidence. With the appropriate government support in place, the INDEX GROUP can help to create an environment where entrepreneurship and business flourish and the growth of micro, small and medium sized enterprises drive employment, prosperity and social advancement. We aim to use the following criteria to measure our progress on sustainability goals:  Ensuring that our office equipment and stationery (including lighting and paper products) are sourced sustainably  Ensuring that suppliers (such as website hosting providers and office providers) meet sustainability standards relevant to their various operations  Ensuring that our transport arrangements are sustainable where possible  Participation in anti-corruption dialogues and events  Raising awareness of corruption and probity issues through training, social media and stakeholder engagement  Assisting clients to achieve transparent and accountable probity processes
