GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2020 01 HMY 03 Our Values 04 Our Commitment 05 Economic Environment 06 Human Rights Labor Policy Actions And Politics 08 Labor Policy 13 Environmental Policy 20 Anti-Corruption Policy 01 HMY HMY is the international leader in 360º global services and innovation for the retail sector. The Group, based in France, has a 60-year history of offering integral solutions for engineering, manufacturing and assembly of furniture for retail, as well as consultancy, design and architecture services, site and project management and divisions specializing in new technologies and lighting. HMY creates efficient and attractive sales spaces, offering innovative products, services and solutions to create a unique shopping experience. As a retail expert, HMY’s goal is to help its clients increase sales by offering their consumers the best shopping experience. A Company with Global Reach The company has presence in over 194 countries and more than 90 sales offices across the world. A wide-reaching global structure with deep local knowledge evident in all our activity. To adapt to each market and its culture, we have business units based in each continent, which makes us well placed to assist our customers in their international expansion. HMY manages 13 production units in France, Spain, UK, Turkey, Brazil, Malaysia, India and Mexico. Our factories have been certified in the latest international environment standard ISO Offices 14001; it has undergone SMETA social auditing and forms part Factories of the SEDEX organization. 03 Our Values At HMY we are totally committed to the values that identify and distinguish us in any country throughout the world. Results oriented Global company Sustainability We strive to achieve We are an international At HMY we are committed Customer We look constant growth company and shared to the 10 principles of the satisfaction after people and strengthen our values enable us to United Nations Global leadership position uphold the utmost Compact. This is clear in Our objective is Our success is based on in a global market. ethical commitment in our action plans, set out to guarantee our the team. We believe Achieving maximum every country where on the basis of the 17 customers’ satisfaction. in the people that customer, employee we operate, while sustainable development We are committed belong to or collaborate and shareholder respecting our policies goals for 2030. to supporting our with our company and satisfaction is one of and commitments customers from the we have the utmost our key objectives. overall. A single image, concept creation to the respect for them. under HMY’s flag, delivery of the fully means that we are equipped sales spaces, globally recognized as with a guaranteed a team, which offers after-sales service. borders-less service. Download our values here: https://www.hmy-group.com/wp-content/uploads/2019/07/HMY_Our_Values_ENG_SF.pdf 04 Our Commitment To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that the HMY Group and all its subsidiaries reaffirm their support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continuously improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit ourselves to sharing this information with our stakeholders by using our primary channels of communications. Sincerely yours, Gilles Taldu Gérant of GTu Services (President of Financière HMY SAS) Economic Environment HMY figures 500+ M€ 160+ turnover countries 90+ 3,000+ covered commercial staff offices worldwide 13 3,400+ factories customers 38,000+ 200+ projects assembly teams 06 Human Rights Labor Policy Policies And Actions The respect for human rights, the fundamental principles and rights at work contained in the ILO declaration, together with the requirements of occupational health and safety, the environment and equality, represent the principle that governs all our decisions and future actions. They are focused on generating sustainable development AND a positive impact on society. We structure our Social Responsibility Program into three basic principles that allow us to execute actions effectively and sustainably: “We take care of our people” “We are more human” “We are involved” “We take care of our people”. “We are more human”, “We are involved”. This principle is focused on the prevention These two principles encompass the entire of our employees’ health. We share our society, understood globally as all external Lessons Learned with an accessible online groups that we can help in their personal library such as HMY Management System, and professional development, both where the following topics are available: locally, in our communities, and globally through philanthropic relationships. Campaigns to prevent workplace accidents. Recruitment programs for people Healthy eating habits. Healthy breakfasts. at risk of exclusion include: Sponsoring life in sport. ■ Hiring people with special needs. Tobacco cessation campaigns. ■ Recruitment programs for war refugees. ■ Campaigns to collect food, Furthermore, HMY has adhered to clothing and toys. the Luxembourg Declaration in its ■ Blood and marrow donation campaigns. commitment to the protection of ■ Campaigns to support adoption (Brazil). human rights and the integration of ■ Campaign Building dreams, changing basic principles of health at work. lives. Construction of single-family homes for people without resources. ■ Construction projects for singlefamily social houses (Mexico). We have an anonymous complaints channel, therefore transparency and rigor are the principles that govern us. 08 Labor Policy 09 Employees and Company relationship HMY guarantees the labor rights of all its In addition, HMY offers other online workers regardless of the country where communication and collaboration channels they come from. By means of an open available to employees. Some of them are relationship concerning social dialogue both People Club, a tool for discounted with the workers’ representatives, HMY leisure and sport activities, and HMY commit to their compliance throughout People App, the latest tool launched by the supply chain by agreement of our the company to improve and facilitate Responsible Purchasing Policy. access by the workers to information such as contract, payroll, calendar and news. The company supports family and labor reconciliation with flexibility of entry “We take care of you” is a HMY’s special and exit times previously agreed upon program promoting healthy living with the workers’ representatives. and eating habits for employees. These hours oscillate between ± 30 minutes over the fixed hours, giving a flexible daily work schedule of 1 hour. The company provides its workers with a Personal Management System, Endalia, for the evaluation of competencies. Here, employee participation achieved a result of 61% since the beginning of the year. 10 Health and safety at work In order to proactively guarantee compliance In the search for transparency and with current legislation, our factories are continuous improvement to prevent certified according to the international workplace accidents, HMY has joined the standard regulations OHSAS 18001, and Luxembourg Declaration committing are based on a Management System that to comply with the basic principles of guarantees action plans for continuous promoting health at work through company improvement. We are currently working management of employee health. to update these audits to the new ISO 45001 standard and we are passing social Lost Time Injury (LTI). audits with a review of occupational health We have achieved a trend of continuous and safety issues such as SMETA and improvement that has allowed us to decrease ECOVADIS, publishing the results on their the number of incidents over the last 5 years. online platforms, Sedex and Ecovadis, Achieving a reduction in the frequency available to our clients and stakeholders. index of 50%, we reached the value of 5.7 LTI per million hours worked during the past In addition, regular internal audits are year, which corresponds to the best results carried out for good practices and healthy in all industries, including automotive. behavioral habits in the workplace, in In addition, this low incident rate goes order to train and prevent workers from along with a very low severity index, with a unsafe habits and inappropriate processes result of 0.15 days of lost work for every or measures. This allows us to detect 1000 hours worked in the last year. problems and share the lessons learned This ratio is lower than the average for the among all areas of the factory, and most industrial sector, including automotive. importantly, among all business units. 11 Training and learning Promoting access to training is key to improve the professional development of our employees. To manage this, HMY launched its own online training platform in 2019, HMY Campus, which delivers online learning by sharing knowledge throughout courses carried out by our own employees. Employees have significantly increased their hours of training focused on tools and topics that are required for their current and future roles. This action guarantees more than 15 hours of training per employee and confirms that at least 80% of the workforce has been trained. The platform also delivers courses in several specific languages aimed at developing the potential of employees in International Relations within and outside HMY, as an essential objective identified within the value of Global Group. 12 Diversity and equal opportunities HMY has an Equal Opportunity and NonDiscrimination Plan as well as a Company Ethic Code. The first document specifies the principles applied during the hiring process, whereas the later stablishes the ethic rules for employees in the workplace, to guarantee non-discrimination and respect for diversity. There is also a special policy to develop prevention measures against workplace harassment or mobbing. Download our Ethic Code here: https://www.hmy-group.com/wp-content/uploads/2019/07/Ethic-Code -HMY-ENG.pdf 13 Environmental Policy We are committed to supporting efficiency throughout the supply chain of the products we develop for our clients. We are moving towards a sustainable production model based on the principles of circular economy driven by ecodesign, which allows us to minimize and even compensate for our carbon footprint emission. Our goals for the 2025 agenda are the following: Zero 80% 50% 15% 100% 100% waste recycled of product reduction of product from of projects in all our or reused manufactured our carbon recycled or based on factories and products with own or footprint controlled ecodesign manufacturing client’s waste raw materials processes 14 Environmental Management System At present, HMY factories are environmentally certified according to ISO 14001 Standard and/ or have been audited on the SMETA format by an external organization to guarantee compliance with environmental requirements. Our sustainable commitment makes us improve continuously. Proof of this is the fact that every year we gain EMAS certification in our main manufacturing center located in Cariñena (Spain). 15 Ecodesign Prior to our ISO 14006 certification, we work in accordance to the six principles of Ecodesign: 4 5 6 1 2 3 Design to Zero coating Use of Use of 100% 100% facilitate pollution Standard minimum recyclable materials of material Systems possible and recycled sustainable separation material materials origin Materials We strive for optimizing our raw material At HMY we have defined the tools that allow consumption, especially steel, which corresponds us to make better use of materials as well as to 75% of its total. In this sense, we have improved improve waste and residues management, while its harnessing up to 23% compared to 2018. helping our clients to reuse their own waste. 16 Energy We strive to obtain energy from sustainable ■ Air conditioning plants rationalization. sources and maximize its consumption. Those ■ Transport to plant promotion are the fundamental reasons supporting our and optimization. strategy to combat climate change and set a ■ Facilitate the use of electric vehicles line of action to reduce our carbon footprint. for traveling with recharging points. ■ Raising awareness of the workforce for Our use of Diesel C, Diesel B, gasoline, and effective use of electronic equipment. electricity has allowed us to save 2.32% ■ Energy audit. in 2019 compared to the previous year. ■ Automatic presence sensors. ■ Awareness of the workforce with our The actions implemented to reduce our adherence to “Earth Hour”: energy consumption are as follows: ■ Renewal of obsolete industrial equipment https://www.hmy-group.com/media/hmy-joins-earth-hour such as polymerization furnace. ■ New lines of paints with processes based on more efficient thermal pretreatment nanotechnologies. ■ Paint lines optimization, increasing their efficiency in loading products. 17 Water Water is a very valuable resource and HMY considers any small improvement to help us reduce water consumption as a great success. At HMY we have carried out the following actions to achieve 9.5% reduction of water consumption: ■ Improvement of painting processes. ■ Facilities leaks mapping and preventive plans. ■ Stoppers in taps and toilets with double flush. ■ Awareness campaigns. ■ Irrigation with rain recovery water and its post-treatment. 18 Emissions Emission control and management to reduce ■ Trucks number substitution for our carbon footprint is the spearhead of our multi-panel small trains. preventive plan against the impact of our ■ Change from diesel to electric trucks. activity and products on the environment. ■ Change of traditional luminaires for In this sense, we have achieved a 10% cut in led luminaires. emissions in the last year. We certify our ■ White paint on factory walls and ceilings carbon footprint reduction and compensation and factory window cleaning. within the scope of each country legislation. ■ Electric grid point for car recharging. ■ Compensation of our carbon footprint These are the main actions taken in order to through tree planting programs in Spain reduce emissions: and South America. ■ More efficient machinery adaptation. ■ Energy audits. ■ Remote control of plant heaters and offices temperature rationalization. ■ Refrigerant gases replacement by other less polluting ones. 19 Zero Waste, in search of the Circular Economy Our first goal is to drastically reduce the Our second goal is to optimize the use of hazardous waste we generate, which comes our resources with a drastic reduction in mainly from the paint booths and the water our waste, either by recycling throughout treatment processes of such paint lines. our value chain, or through direct reuse with actions to renew customer stores. For this purpose, the following actions As a result of these solutions, we have were launched: reused 87% of wood and 97% of glass, ■ 5% sludge reduction from water with an estimated 37% of savings. treatments, using an anti-settling system in a treatment plant. We have stablished strategic alliances ■ System to reduce process water usage with clients and partners, such as research in paint with Nanotechnologies. institutes like Solteco & Feltwood as well as intermediate transformers for the recycling of own and client’s plastics waste. These partnerships have allowed us to develop new families of products for our portfolio, including car and shelf image. At the same time, we have managed to give sustainable response to waste destined for landfill so far. 20 Anti-Corruption Policy At HMY we maintain and promote the highest relevance in the organization. However, ethical commitment to our supply chain, as the entire workforce is entitled suppliers, customers and all HMY team. to this training, more than a third of We ensure that our policies work properly it has been already accredited. as well as our commitment to society by adhering to our values and ethical code. The company has developed for the first time a Responsible Purchasing The company’s Ethics Code was reviewed Policy that seeks the commitment of in accordance with the Sapin Law in order all our suppliers to HMY’s values. to be aligned with HMY principles and values and in favor of the fight against You can find below some measures any form of corruption. An online course taken to achieve this commitment: about it is also available for employees ■ Specific purchasing training in our training platform, Campus HMY. plans for managers and their teams regarding our Responsible In this sense, HMY has identified 393 profiles Purchasing Policy and its purpose. among all our worldwide employees that ■ Development of an Internal have trained in Ethics Code, due to their Supplier Selection Procedure in job position, professional contacts or accordance with such Policy. Download our Ethic Code here: https://www.hmy-group.com/wp-content/uploads/2019/07/Ethic-Code-HMY-ENG.pdf hmy-group.com
