NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. 14-18 Takatsuji-cho, Mizuho-ku, Nagoya 467-8525 https://www.ngkntk.co.jp/english/ Public Relations Dept., Corporate Strategy Gr. Phone: 81-52-872-5896 Fax: 81-52-872-5951 NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 Year ended March 31, 2020 CONTENTS 03 Corporate Message 07 Message from the Chairman 11 Message from the President 1 Morimura Group 17 Morimura Group 2 Stories for Value Creation 21 History of Challenges and Transformations 23 Value Creation Process 25 Businesses Developed over the Years 27 Assets Built over the Years 29 Performance Data 3 Growth Strategies 33 Looking Back on Years under the Long-term Management Plan “NITTOKU SHINKARON” 35 Risks and Opportunities in the External Environment New Long-term Management Plan 37 2030 Long-term Management Plan NITTOKU BX 43 NGK SPARK PLUG’s Innovation 45 The Finance Officer Outlines the Financial Strategy 4 Business Infrastructure to Support Sustainable Growth 51 Sustainability at NGK SPARK PLUG 55 Priority Issues 57 Response to Climate Change and Environmental Management 61 Human Resources Development to Ensure Sustainable Growth 65 Respect for Human Rights 66 Proper Procurement 67 Stakeholder Engagement Corporate Governance 68 Interview with Outside Directors 71 Management System 75 Corporate Governance System 82 Risk Management 84 Information Security Editorial Policy 85 Measures against COVID-19 NGK SPARK PLUG has been issuing an annual integrated report since 2017 with a view to helping all stakeholders deepen their understanding of its medium87 Compliance to long-term value creation efforts. This year’s report has been edited with a focus on introducing our newly established long-term plan and vision—2030 Long-Term Management Plan NITTOKU BX and 2040 Vision: “Change drastically beyond the current way”—particularly describing approaches to implementing and realizing them from financial and non-financial viewpoints. 5 Business Strategy This publication is also intended to serve as a tool to respond to various opinions and inquiries we receive from stakeholders through our business and 91 Automotive Components Group Plug business IR activities throughout the year. We look forward to receiving frank opinions from many people. 93 Automotive Components Group Sensor business 95 Technical Ceramics Group Scope and Period Covered NGK SPARK PLUG Communication Period covered : FY2019 (From April 1, 2019 to March 31, 2020) 97 Other businesses Summary Also includes some information about our FY2020 activities. NGK SPARK PLUG Integrated Report Scope covered : NGK SPARK PLUG Group 99 Financial Results Highlights for the Past 11 Years Corporate Governance Also includes some non-consolidated information about NGK Shareholder Newsletter Report 101 Consolidated Statement of Financial Position SPARK PLUG. Securities Business Results Briefing CSR website and 102 Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss Guidelines for Reference Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income Report Presentation Materials Sustainability Data Book The International Integrated Reporting Framework, the Detail 103 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC);Guidance for Integrated Financial information Non-financial information Corporate Disclosure and Company-Investor Dialogues for Collaborative 104 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Value Creation, the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry https://www.ngkntk.co.jp/english/ 105 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Forward-looking statements This report focuses on the information that is essential for the enhancement of our 151 Independent Auditor’s Report This report contains forward-looking statements regarding NGK SPARK PLUG’s corporate value. For details of our technologies, products and financial affairs, please visit 153 Global Network future plans, strategies and performance. Please understand that actual results our website. For detailed information about our corporate social 155 Corporate Profile and Stock Information may differ substantially from these statements. responsibility (CSR), please refer to the webpages on our CSR activities as well as to our CSR reports and the Sustainability Data Books. 156 Independent Verification Report NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 01 02 Maintain Our Strengths The Nittoku Way The Nittoku Way refers to a set of philosophies based on business mottos cherished by Morimura Gumi, the founding company of the Morimura Group. The philosophies set forth values to be shared by the entire NGK SPARK PLUG Group and a guide to actions to be taken in line with the values. About the Morimura Group, see ⇒ P.17 Corporate Philosophy At NGK SPARK PLUG, we aim to contribute to people all over the world by Corporate Corporate Message Philosophy linking people to technologies and delivering new values. As a truly global CSR and corporation, we want to build stronger ties not only with customers and Sustainability Charter communities, but also with the local and global environments. We are always working to make our corporate philosophy and our commitments a reality. Long-term Corporate Management Code of Three elements constitute our corporate philosophy. Plan Conduct Medium-term IGNITE Your drive, dreams and SPIRIT Management CSR Basic Policy Slogan Plan Corporate philosophy With established trust and confidence inside and outside Quality Involvement the company, we aim to contribute products by all to the peoples of the world by NGK SPARK PLUG has been a leader in manufacturing for 80 years. creating and putting at their disposal new values Our desire is to live in a healthier and more beautiful world where all our dreams can come true. Basic Traits for the future. Every day, we continue to ignite the passion in our hearts and spark new ideas in our minds Shiseito focus on achieving our goals for the future. Shinjitsu DokuritsuShikai-Keitei 2 1 3 Our mission is to continue to make the world a better place. Jiei SoshiWe offer a working environment in With full use of the most suitable Ever onward! Kantetsu which each one of us is encouraged to technology and our accumulated Always mindful of what is the best We will pursue future opportunities and improve make full use of his or her personality experience, we continue striving to offer course, we swiftly put it into action. NGK SPARK PLUG’s unique and advanced technologies. Shared Values and capabilities. With all our power we new values to the peoples are dedicated to pursuing management of the world. based on trust and confidence. Our diverse workforce will ignite our company to create new products and to be a leader in innovation. Shared Values CSR and Sustainability Charter We will enhance our competitive advantage by understanding and adapting to global changes. The Four Shared Values of We contribute to developing a sustainable society, thereby improving Fueled and motivated by our own drive, NGK SPARK PLUG will continue to the Nittoku Way our corporate value. IGNITE YOUR SPIRIT, instill passion in your hearts, and deliver cutting-edge Sincerely Shisei-Shinjitsu do our very best. We build solutions as a leading manufacturer in the world. relations of trust with We cocreate and Believe in one’s own ability, our stakeholders provide new value to Dokuritsu-Jiei while making highly solving social and take actions by oneself. transparent decisions issues. Unite efforts with the people and actions. Shikai-Keitei of the world, and utilize each other’s differences. Have cherished desires, We are committed to delivering new value to people all over the world and contributing to society, Soshi-Kantetsu and carry it through till as expressed in our corporate philosophy. the end. This commitment is associated with our concept of sustainability, which is to help solve social issues through business activities. The CSR and Sustainability Charter presents a summary of this concept. NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 03 04 Pursue Transformation 2040 Vision Change drastically beyond the current way 2030 Long-term Management Plan Delivering new value in the face of an ever-changing future. 2030 Strategies and Initiatives To meet large-scale global environmental changes, we too must change. Creating an organization comprised of passionate individuals working together to face challenges head-on in order to a better society. We are transcending imagination with technology that transcends boundaries. We are more than just a ceramics and we are going in new directions. About the new long-term management plan, ⇒ P.37 NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 05 06 Message from the Chairman From Competition to Cocreation Our goal is to achieve sustainability in both the company’s growth and society through unselfish commitments to helping solve social issues Representative Director Chairman of the Board The “NITTOKU SHINKARON,” our long-term management plan that envisioned the next 10 years for NGK SPARK PLUG from FY2010, ended in FY2019. In this section, Chairman of the Board Shinichi Odo talks about how the company evolved during the last decade and how it will adapt to changes brought about by the COVID-19 pandemic. Impact of “NITTOKU SHINKARON” on the company’s culture The NGK SPARK PLUG Group, established in 1936 with the the plan, to discuss across the company what they should challenging mission of creating Japan’s first spark plugs, has do as members of the Nittoku family. been pursuing the possibilities of ceramics under our In FY2016, ended March 2017, we also developed the principles of “Involvement by all” and “Quality products,” seventh medium-term management plan for the period to which we believe are the foundation of Monozukuri March 2021. I served as both Chairman of the Board and (innovative and quality manufacturing). Through these efforts President from FY2016 to undertake both the management over many years, we have contributed to social development and business execution of the company. However, as I and built trust with our customers. Our growth has been recognized an urgent need for swift decision-making to yield centered on the core business of automotive internal good results amid the rapidly changing external environment, combustion engine products, such as spark plugs and the functions of management and business execution were sensors, based on our technologies featuring a level of separated in April 2019, with the former assumed by me as sophistication that no one else can match and against the Chairman of the Board and the latter by President Kawai. backdrop of the economic development and spread of With regard to the results of the “NITTOKU motorization in Japan and other nations. SHINKARON” as of 2020, I am not fully satisfied with the However, the automobile industry, within which we have achievement level of the goal of offering “Real Value” to all been continuously challenging and reinventing ourselves in our stakeholders, particularly in terms of the business order to establish a competitive advantage, is now at a major performance target. However, I feel that we have seen turning point with the electrification of automobiles, such as progress in the achievement of the initial objective of the electric vehicles (EVs) and plug-in hybrid vehicles (PHVs). plan—changing the corporate culture. This comes against the background of a movement toward We have been focusing specifically on strengthening decarbonization and the rapid progress of technological existing businesses, unprofitable businesses and new innovation. businesses. As regards existing businesses, we have The “NITTOKU SHINKARON”, our long-term established an overwhelmingly powerful position in the market management plan that illustrated a vision of what the of spark plugs, our core product, and achieved the world’s company should be in 10 years, was formulated in 2010 in highest share for exhaust gas sensors. We have constructed line with these changes with the aim of returning to our basic value chains that deliver “Real Value” as a Monozukuri principles of Monozukuri put forward at the time of our company to our customers the world over. For unprofitable establishment and reshaping the company’s culture by businesses, we have advanced the structural reform of the maintaining the good and eliminating the bad. To achieve this semiconductor business and completed the consolidation of aim, I assumed the position of President in 2011 and took production bases, resulting in boosted productivity. charge of business execution, while also encouraging However, when it comes to the creation of new employees, who are major players in the implementation of businesses, although we sowed seeds for new businesses, NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 07 08 Message from the Chairman such as founding venture labs and investment in venture capital We are also implementing a plan to appropriately transfer age in which expansion was the only goal of business need to think of the remaining 95% of the population when funds, these efforts did not result in forming and presenting any the authorities and responsibilities of the global headquarters operators and the winning-is-everything mentality prevailed planning new businesses. We are aiming to expand business specific vision for the expansion of our businesses. One reason (GHQ) (head office) to the regional headquarters (RHQ) has gone, and we are now at a turning point where we can in the area of medical care as part of the next 2030 Longbehind this is that the automotive market, for better or worse, overseas. Under this plan, we have defined key performance change our approach to corporate management. Term Management Plan “NITTOKU BX”, but even if we can grew more than expected, which meant we had to allocate a indicator criteria that need to be met by—and reinforced the I once had a discussion with employees at the Nittoku create advanced medical technologies, they will be larger share of business resources to the automotive system to monitor the governance of—the RHQ. We are also Business School regarding what our company can do for meaningless unless they are easily accessible to people components business than to new businesses. planning to reorganize the divisions into internal companies society at a time when we have to coexist with COVID-19. around the world. I hope that discussions of this kind will help This is something that I feel is a very regrettable result. under the next long-term management plan. With these plans, While the employees were proposing various business plans, employees develop into management-class personnel Nevertheless, we have established ourselves as a Monozukuri the culture of “taking action by oneself” is expected to be one thing I suggested to them was that, as the richest top capable of finding optimum solutions. company and a highly profitable one at that, both of which were further fostered in line with the shared value of Dokuritsu-Jiei 5% of people own more than 80% of global wealth, there is a a part of the vision the company sought to achieve by 2020. We set out in The Nittoku Way. also stipulated The Nittoku Way in 2017, which defines the basic To promote the development of the next generation of principles that need to be observed by every member of the global management-class human resources, we launched the Nittoku family and that are essential for NGK SPARK PLUG to HAGI Program in 2016 to identify talent from across all of the Addressing social issues by transforming ourselves, rather than through mere reforms remain a progressive organization with a sound governance Group companies and develop these individuals into future system that increases our corporate value and a company that management-class personnel. The program provides such values its employees as precious assets. Because of these and employees with an opportunity to receive training and be Management of ESG risks is also facing a turning point. adopting an altruistic stance. Japanese automakers have been other efforts, in my view, we were able to make some progress eligible for promotion regardless of nationality and is already Companies, especially manufacturers, were previously focusing expanding their market and have become some of the world’s in shifting the corporate culture and mindset of employees beginning to produce workers who are filling core positions on cost reduction and efficiency and consolidating their most successful companies, but to maintain their sustainable toward facilitating the creation of new businesses. with a strong sense of mission and great enthusiasm to serve factories. However, some companies concentrating their growth, contribute to solving social issues and increase To enhance governance and transparency and accelerate the Group. We have also opened the Nittoku Business School factories in Wuhan, China, were hit hard by the outbreak of productivity, they also should consider the need for the business decision-making, the number of directors has been for selected personnel in section chief-class positions, which COVID-19 as their supply chains were cut off. Our damage transformation of their supply chains across the entire industry. decreased from 25 to no more than 13. The Employee are slightly below the level qualified to join the HAGI Program. was fortunately minimal, but the result would have been very We are now entering an age when we need to shift our focus Corporate Officer System has also been adopted to make it The school provides education designed to lay a leadership different if our production bases in China were located in from competition to cocreation in our challenge to help build a possible to actively appoint young employees as officers, and foundation and is beginning to send forth leaders to supervise places seriously affected by the virus. sustainable society. this system, together with the abolishment of senior managing worksites. It has long been pointed out for the dispersion of risks that The process of drastic transformation, needless to say, will and managing officer positions, is driving forward the President Kawai and I have also divided up the task of there is a trade-off between security and costs. But this traderequire dogged determination and may be even accompanied elimination of the hierarchy of executive officers. The DIAMOND human resources development, with President Kawai taking off can be solved if digital transformation (DX)—which entails by pain. But I believe that this process is indispensable for Project, launched to promote women’s empowerment in 2013, charge of the Nittoku Business School and myself taking changes in production, such as remote control and production passing on the Monozukuri technologies and artisanship that has helped increase the number of women in managerial charge of the HAGI Program and women’s empowerment. In management in the cloud—progresses and leads to reduced Japan is so proud of to future generations. positions from three initially to 18 (as of the end of March terms of company management, President Kawai executes all costs and labor. In Japan, the delay in digitization, particularly Moving forward, as expectations mount for our even more 2020). This effort led the company to be granted by the everyday management operations as the chief executive, and at production sites, has been cited as an issue. Our company environmentally considerate, efficient and high-performance government and the Tokyo Stock Exchange the Nadeshiko the two of us exchange opinions whenever there is any issue will promote DX as one of the targets of the “NITTOKU BX” to spark plugs and sensors created based on our proud ceramics Brand designation in FY2018, which recognizes outstanding that I want to raise as Chairman of the Board or when he speed up management decision-making. However, what we technologies, we at NGK SPARK PLUG will continue cultivating listed companies in terms of supporting women to play active consults me regarding any issue, in order to ensure that the really need to ensure business continuity is not stopgap new businesses with a view to the popularization of EVs. We roles in the workplace. company is managed in a timely and appropriate manner. reforms, which would not help us survive the current critical will share and cocreate a better future with shareholders and all situation confronting us. We must transform ourselves radically other stakeholders and take on wide-ranging challenges to and in a manner that can overturn traditional norms. tackle social issues. I would appreciate your understanding We are seeing values shift, with less emphasis on toward a new NGK SPARK PLUG along with your continued Shift in management perspective necessitated by the COVID-19 crisis generating profit for the company and more emphasis on support. We have also been actively working on environmental, social Looking back at our history, since its founding the and governance (ESG) issues by making it our mission to company has undertaken many challenges and undergone help solve social issues and achieve a sustainable society. We many changes to help solve social issues. Carrying on this are developing, in response to social needs, spark plugs, spirit and continuing to create products and services that will oxygen sensors and other automotive components in contribute to various social issues is our mission. Turning our compliance with environmental regulations, as well as taking eyes to the rest of the world, while we are now seeing each specific actions, such as the reduction of CO2 emissions to nation setting their own targets to achieve the Sustainable combat climate change, in line with the corporate philosophy Development Goals (SDGs) and taking action accordingly, the and The Nittoku Way, which define how we, as members of COVID-19 crisis and unprecedented climate change are the Nittoku family, should behave. posing a question as to how we can strike a balance During this term, we have established the Sustainability between capitalism and social responsibility—a question that Promotion Department within the Corporate Strategy Group represents an extremely high hurdle for everyone, including, to promote more comprehensive measures. To strengthen to my regret, me. sustainable management, however, I strongly feel that we Needless to say, companies must keep increasing sales need a new perspective and approach in light of changes in and profits for sustainable growth. The question of how to society and the economic structure, as well as in people’s balance corporate growth and social commitment, which too values, brought about by the spread of COVID-19. often ends up a trade-off, is not easy to answer. However, the NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 09 10 Message from the President Constantly looking to “Something New”to build a strong, agile and flexible organization that can “change drastically beyond the current way” Representative Director President Chief Operating Officer In FY2020, as a new long-term management plan that follows on from the “NITTOKU SHINKARON”, NGK SPARK PLUG has formulated the 2030 Long-term Management Plan “NITTOKU BX”. Under this plan, made by backcasting from its 2040 vision, what does the company aim to achieve by FY2030 on the way to making unprecedentedly drastic changes? President Takeshi Kawai talks about the strategies and measures. Generating innovation out of conflict Over its history of more than 80 years, NGK SPARK PLUG gather together and exchange opinions from different has built a stable revenue base by building on the company’s viewpoints. This fiscal year, we established the Global core ceramics technology to tirelessly advance and improve Innovation Div. as a team tasked with searching for seeds for its products used in internal combustion engines (ICEs), new businesses and a non-Japanese engineer was mainly spark plugs and sensors. However, due to the rapid appointed to head up this division. This marked the first progress of technological innovation, as represented by EVs, appointment of a foreign national to lead a head office the economic and industrial structures themselves are division in the long history of the company. undergoing huge changes, necessitating that we too make Diversifying an organization will inevitably spur conflicts dramatic progress and reinvent ourselves to move to a new among its members, and this is exactly what I have intended. stage. If we were going to continue to do business in a conventional The automobile industry is going through a once-in-away, we would need to foster teamwork and harmony, but in century shift, and in response we need to remind ourselves of order to find “Something New” from new viewpoints, we need our company’s founding spirit, “Challenges and to be skeptical of conventional wisdom and frankly express Transformations” toward the solution of social issues, while opinions that may go against it. constantly looking to “Something New” as our new mindset. I have thus proposed that employees find “Something There are no right answers to what “Something New” New” (for which, as mentioned above, there is no right means. But one thing is clear: We cannot find “Something answer) as a key phrase for our business model and have New” if we continue to do business in a conventional manner. inspired them by adding diversity to the workforce. As a For the past one year, I have been working to build a result, existing employees are gradually showing signs of corporate culture that encourages employees to think what change in terms of their mindsets, words and behaviors. By “Something New” means to them in a proactive manner and tending the sprouts of “Something New” until they develop not based on the technologies already accumulated by the larger and thicker trunks, we can build a new business pillar company and available to them. through which we can also contribute to the solution of social One example of the measures that I have been leading issues. Beyond attaining this target, we will be able to to this end is the employment and utilization of a more become a corporate group that can make steady diverse workforce. In order to foster innovation, it is necessary contributions to future development. to follow a process in which people with various backgrounds Commitment to be fulfilled by going “Beyond ceramics” For the creation of new businesses that support the future of Management Plan “NITTOKU BX” (hereinafter, “NITTOKU our company, we formulated the 2030 Long-term BX”) as a roadmap that shows the specific details of NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 11 12 Message from the President measures to be taken to attain the goal. The plan targets make a plan for 2040—even though we do not know what 2030 as the milestone year toward 2040. the right plan for the future of 20 years from now is—and we First, under the plan, we aim to “change drastically have thus decided to “change drastically beyond the current beyond the current way” as our vision for 2040 and uphold way” as our vision for 2040. the slogan “Beyond ceramics, eXceeding imagination” as a We used to develop a new business by thinking about result of a series of discussions by six teams made up of “What ceramics can do” or what we can do by using our young employees, mostly aged in their 30s. existing core technology. It is impossible for anyone to precisely predict the future However, in order to “change drastically beyond the 20 years from now. However, according to the forecasts for current way,” we need to embrace the challenge of sales volume of new automobiles and the numbers of developing solutions and services with technology that automobiles owned by people around the world, the number transcends boundaries. While continuing to center our of those equipped with ICEs, in which our core products business on ceramics, we must expand by gradually breaking such as spark plugs and sensors are used, will peak in the the hard mold and forge the future by transcending middle of the 2030s and then begin to decrease. imagination. In “NITTOKU BX,” we therefore take the In response, what measures do we need to implement? approach of backcasting from our 2040 vision and show It would be too late to make a new growth plan after demand what kind of preparations we will make and what things we has peaked in the 2030s. Therefore, right now, we need to will try during the next decade to 2030. management plan made for each in-house company based terms of their achievement, cost and budgeting, and Aiming to transform our business portfolio on the long-term management plan. The in-house companies enhancing their governance. will also adopt performance-based rewards and evaluation For Willful Cultural Change, we must reform our systems in consideration of their respective level of corporate culture from a “defensive” to an “offensive” culture achievement and business environment, thereby securing to “change drastically beyond the current way.” To this end As the specific target for 2040, we will invest the earnings new businesses from current income and the investment excellent human resources. Further, we will mandate each we need to promote diversity and have upheld “Change with from the automotive components business, which is results in our quarterly financial reports and will invite in-house company to make quarterly performance reports to Will” as a new guiding principle. Specifically, with a strong expected to remain steadily profitable, in new and growth feedback, even reprimands, from our shareholders. ensure the transparency of management while building a commitment (“Will”), we must foster “Change” for coexistence businesses, aiming to increase the proportion of non-ICE In order to secure a source of funding to make system for the in-house companies to monitor each other in with society and people. business in our total net sales from the current 20% to 60%, investments in new businesses, we absolutely need to make thereby transforming our business portfolio. To this end, profit in the ICE-related businesses, which provides us with a under “NITTOKU BX,” which targets 2030 as the milestone revenue base. Some are worried about the impact of year in the lead-up to 2040, we will decrease the proportion COVID-19, but its impact on our business performance is of ICE-related businesses to 60% and increase that of nonrelatively small. Demand for repair parts has recovered faster ICE-related businesses to 40%. than expected, and global demand for our spark plugs and Transforming the “conservative” corporate culture into one with a “progressive spirit” For the creation of new businesses, which was also sensors will continue for at least the next 10 years. upheld in the previous long-term management plan, As for the emergence of EVs, demand for high“NITTOKU SHINKARON,” we clearly show in “NITTOKU BX,” performance hybrid vehicles, which are more eco-friendly, In our transformation process, we will reform our the challenge of solving these issues as our basic corporate as an important point of the plan, the numerical targets for might further increase, depending upon the progress made in organizations for the first four years under the new long-term attitude. In this world of uncertainty about the future, we need the proportion of new and growth businesses in the total the development of batteries. Demand for eco-friendly management plan, upholding the slogans, “Break to change” to build up a flexible and robust system in order to respond to amount of investments that we will make in our businesses, products, for which we have a technological advantage, will and “Change to create.” Needless to say, we cannot avoid changes and work to solve social issues. To this end, we in addition to the numerical targets set for their share of total continue as environmental regulations are becoming stricter failure when taking on challenges, but in the transformation should immediately embark on a reform, and I will play a net sales. We will announce how much we have invested in in developing and emerging economies alike. process we cannot go back to the conventional business leading role in helping the company to fulfill this mission. model even if we do encounter failure, and so we must We cannot ensure our business continuity without the “Break to change.” sustainable development of society. Accordingly, in order to In order to shift from “Break to change” to “Change to contribute to the creation of a sustainable society, we signed create,” we must embrace challenges boldly and have new the United Nations Global Compact in November 2016, Introducing an in-house company system that embodies “Dokuritsu Jiei” experiences during the remaining one year under the seventh supporting its 10 principles set in four areas. Going forward, medium-term management plan and the first four years under we will conduct a range of activities as a good corporate the next medium-term plan. By engaging in trial and error to citizen, thereby contributing to society at large under our Along with the public announcement of the amount of cost at our administrative departments, such as those in make new findings at this stage in the transformation corporate philosophy, expressed in our slogan, “With investment that we have made in each of our new businesses charge of general affairs, personnel affairs and accounting, process, we can take another step forward to move to the established trust and confidence inside and outside the and the investment results, we will foster the following three including the introduction of the concept of “shared service” next stage, or the next five years, for which we have upheld company, we aim to contribute to the peoples of the world by to promote the transformation of our business portfolio with to the back office departments. the slogan, “Extend for the future. Spread out to exceed.” By creating and putting at their disposal new values for the speed: Management Innovation, Clarification of For Clarification of Responsibilities and Authority, we will engaging in trial and error at these two stages, we will create future.” Responsibilities and Authority, and Willful Cultural Change. implement measures to transform our organizations into a new business culture to ensure the sustainability of our I hope that our stakeholders will pay close attention to For Management Innovation, we will build a small, strong those that embody “Dokuritsu Jiei” as upheld in the Nittoku company going forward. how we implement our new long-term management plan and agile head office and speed up investments in cloud Way, including the introduction of an in-house company As the most important point to be noted for our “NITTOKU BX” and look forward to receiving your feedback, systems and digitization, thereby expediting management system. sustainable growth, we are required to give consideration to including advice and opinions. decisions. We will also foster digitization to save labor and We will set KPIs and KGIs in the medium-term ESG and the SDGs, face social issues squarely, and take on NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 13 14 CONTENTS 17 Morimura Group 1 Morimura Group The origins of NGK SPARK PLUG can be traced back to Morimura Gumi, which was founded by two brothers, Ichizaemon and Toyo Morimura, in 1876 and built a foundation of business that later grew into the world’s largest ceramics conglomerate. The brothers’ sincere attitudes toward business have formed the basis of our corporate DNA, passed down over 140 years to this day. NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 15 16 Business Infrastructure Morimura Group Stories for Value Creation Growth Strategies to Support Sustainable Growth Business Strategy Morimura Group Timeline from Morimura Gumi to The origin of the Morimura Group, the foremost ceramics conglomerate in Japan, dates back to NGK SPARK PLUG 1876, when the Morimura brothers, Ichizaemon and Toyo, founded Morimura Gumi*1 to launch a pioneering foreign trade business in the country. The Group’s involvement in the ceramics industry began in 1904, when the founders of Morimura Gumi formed Nippon Toki Gomei Kaisha*2, from which the sanitary ware division and insulator division were subsequently spun off into TOYO TOKI Co., Ltd.*3 (1917) ,NGK INSULATORS, LTD.*4 (1919) and Okura Toen*5 (1919), respectively. After that, in October 1936, the spark plug division of NGK INSULATORS, LTD. was spun off, and NGK SPARK PLUG was established, forming the foundation of the Morimura Group today. Notes: 1. Currently, Morimura BROS., INC.; 2. Later, Nippon Toki K.K., and currently, NORITAKE CO., LIMITED; 3. Currently, TOTO LTD.; 4. Currently, NGK INSULATORS, LTD.; 5. Currently, OKURA ART CHINA, INC.; 1937: NGK SPARK Ichizaemon Morimura in 1863 PLUG starts 1919: Nippon Toki’s insulator division manufacturing spun-off into NGK INSULATORS, spark plugs LTD.; Okura Toen established 1876: Ichizaemon Morimura VI and his Morimura Group’s brother Toyo found Morimura Gumi in 1921: NGK INSULATORS starts Tokyo, with Toyo starting an imported research on manufacturing of variety business in the US spark plugs Background 1881: Morimura brothers established. Found potential porcelain exports. Ichizaemon Morimura(Right side) and Toyo in 1889 1936: NGK INSULATORS’ spark 1897: Morimura Bank established plug division spun-off into NGK (Merged with Mitsubishi Bank SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. in 1929) Morimura Gumi （March 1876） 1930: NGK INSULATORS puts spark 1917: Nippon Toki converted into a joint plugs on the market stock company (Nippon Toki K.K.); its sanitary ware division spun-off into TOYO TOKI Co., Ltd. Morimura Nippon Toki 1904: Nippon Toki Gomeikaisha Bank Gomei Kaisha established. （June 1897） （January 1904） NGK Morimura Gumi TOYO TOKI Nippon Toki Okura Toen INSULATORS, （May 1919） Co., Ltd. Co., Ltd. K.K. （April 1918） （May 1917） （July 1917） LTD. （May 1919） In New York, Morimura Brothers Broadway 539, around 1893 NGK Merged with OKURA ART MORIMURA NORITAKE CO., NGK SPARK TOTO LTD. INSULATORS, Mitsubishi CHINA, INC. BROS., INC. LIMITED PLUG （Renamed in LTD. Bank （Reorganized in （Renamed in （Renamed in CO., LTD. May 2007） （Written name （1929） April 1950） July 1946） April 1981） （October 1936） Nippon Toki Gomeikaisha in 1904 changedin May 1986） NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 17 18 CONTENTS 21 23 History of Challenges and Transformations Value Creation Process 2 Stories for Value Creation Since its founding in 1936, NGK SPARK PLUG has been exploring the possibilities of ceramics and demonstrating a commitment to its basic policy 25 Businesses Developed of “quality products” and “involvement by all” over the Years as a manufacturer, while also contributing to the 27 Assets Built over the Years development of society and earning trust from 29 Performance Data customers. This tradition of pursuing challenges and trust has been and will continue to be the driving force pushing us toward new frontiers. We will enhance our activities to be able to achieve the sustainable development of society and our business alike. NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 19 20 Business Infrastructure Morimura Group Stories for Value Creation Growth Strategies to Support Sustainable Growth Business Strategy History of Challenges and Transformations Over the course of its history, NGK SPARK PLUG has made progress in response to the changing times, taking on the challenge of solving social issues. Demonstrating a commitment to quality, our corporate DNA inherited from 1967 1989 2000Production of ceramic substrates Sales of electrostatic chucks Building new business pillars Morimura Gumi, we are continuously working to meet the challenge of creating new value. and IC packages started started Under the NITTOKU SHINKARON 1936 1937 long-term management plan started In the late 1960s, the silicon In the late 1980s, requirements for higher in FY2010, we accelerated efforts semiconductor integrated circuit (IC) integration and lower cost of semiconductor to establish new business pillars, became a mainstream standard and its elements intensified, which gave rise to a NGK SPARK PLUG founded Production of NGK Spark Plugs including hydrogen leak detection mass production began in Japan and shift to ceramic components, characterized started sensors and the solid oxide fuel cell NGK SPARK PLUG was established the US. Following this trend, we started by the material’s excellent heat and abrasion (SOFC), by applying our core ceramics through the spin-off of the spark plug manufacturing ceramic substrates and resistance, to be used for semiconductor In 1930, we released NG Spark Plugs, technologies. We continue with these division of NGK INSULATORS. IC packages by applying our ceramics production equipment. In response, we Japan’s first domestically produced spark challenging efforts, seeking out every The founding business of producing technologies. promptly introduced ceramic electrostatic plug, and began producing NGK Spark possible new field. spark plugs has grown to make the chucks, and commenced Challenges embraced Plugs in 1937. company the world’s top manufacturer mass production of the of the product. product in the 2000s to expand sales. Magoemon Ezoe, first president NGK Spark Plug Electrostatic chuck 1949 IC packages by NGK SPARK PLUG 1999 Hydrogen leak Solid oxide fuel cell (SOFC) detection sensor Production of NTK Technical Ceramics started After the post-war confusion had settled down and spark plug production was stabilized, we began 1982 Sales of medical oxygen applying ceramics to develop new technologies and products for the diversification of our business. Production of oxygen sensors for concentrators started The new segment development was promoted under the brand name of NTK. Following this, we automobiles started We started research on the possibility of gradually broadened our ceramic product range to include those for industrial and environmental uses. In Japan in the 1960s, as the full-scale medical applications of bioceramics in motorization of society progressed, the 1970s, looking to future opportunities afforded by the progress of population 1959 environmental degradation such as air 1958 pollution became a social issue. In response, exhaust gas regulations were aging. Related results included the rollout of the bone prosthesis Ceratite in 1990 Ceramic cutting tools developed Overseas business expansion made stricter. To help related industries and oxygen concentrators for medical ensure regulatory compliance, we began use in 1999. The importance of ceramic industrial Japan entered the high economic growth period, developing various sensors, primarily in tools increased, particularly in relation boosting exports. Driven by this trend, we association with exhaust gas, such as to electricity, automobiles, chemical established our first overseas base in Brazil, zirconia oxygen sensors and wide-range engineering and machinery, and we Ceramica e Velas de Ignicao NGK do Brasil, in oxygen sensors. developed ceramic cutting tools for cutting 1959, and began to promote overseas hard materials to be put on sale in 1958. Cutting tools advancement ahead of competitors to build strong global networks. Medical-use oxygen concentrator Temperature sensors for automobiles Oxygen sensors for Ceramica e Velas de Ignicao NGK do Brasil automobiles Development period Startup period (from 1930) Growth period (from 1940) Establishment period (from 1960) From present to future (from 1990) Historical context / Domestic automobile industry depending on imports Automobile production growing rapidly Impact of high economic growth Tackling new social challenges Development period (from 1990) Aiming to create a sustainable society In Japan in the 1920s, when the domestic automobile In the 1940s, domestic automobile production rose to From the late 1960s, pollution problems were From the 1990s, automakers began to focus on the industry was still in its infancy, the supply of automobiles was 46,000 cars, as automobile and related parts manufacturing emerging as a negative effect of the high development of electric vehicles, hybrid vehicles and fuel Our business environment is undergoing an limited almost entirely to imports from the U.S. and Europe, developed into a major industry. Accordingly, demand for economic growth, and the automobile cell vehicles, as part of efforts to address environmental enormous change brought about by a number of Social issues and automotive parts, including spark plugs, were also plugs also increased. After WWII, Japan ushered in a period industry was particularly called on to urgently and energy issues. Those years also saw the explosive factors, such as AI and IoT-driven digitization, the imported. The first president, Magoemon Ezoe, decided to of high economic growth in the late 1950s, when the country address air pollution problems. Looking to growth of information communication technologies once-in-a-century transformation of the automobile produce plugs using ceramics, a specialty product of Japan, was rapidly becoming motorized. fulfill needs related to such problems as well bringing about significant changes in many people s industry led by the concepts of CASE and MaaS, and led initiatives to launch domestic plug as resource conservation, we started research lifestyle. In order to provide products that would meet and mounting concerns over climate change and manufacturing. to develop new products that would help new needs related to these societal trends, we ESG-related issues. Recognizing this situation, we meet exhaust gas regulations. These promoted research and development based on our are striving to reduce our dependence on the regulations were made more stringent by the technologies built over long years. production of automotive components for internal year, pushing up demand for highcombustion engines, which account for 80% of our performance plugs and sensors. net sales, while creating new business projects NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 aimed at achieving a sustainable society. 21 22 Business Infrastructure Morimura Group Stories for Value Creation Growth Strategies to Support Sustainable Growth Business Strategy Value Creation Process Capitalizing on Ceramics Technologies Business Model Creation of corporate value Value chain to gain competitive advantage FY2019 Managerial Net sales resources Production and quality FY2019 Planning and R&D Procur ement management Logistics and sales 426.0 billion yen External environment Refer to “Assets Built over Operating income the Years” on ⇒ P.29 Automotive Components Group Technical Ceramics Group Global environmental issues Supporting global motorization, our Semiconductor business Ceramics business 48.4 billion yen Financial product lineup is mainly composed of Our semiconductor packages We supply a range of ceramic Operating income ratio international issues capital 11.4 plugs, sensors and other components and substrates, developed by products for industry use, Established of a society where Cash flows from operating activities for internal combustion engines. applying our ceramics layering including cutting tools and % economic development and techniques, are adopted in components for semiconductor 59.8billion yen various products, such as production equipment, which ROIC resolution of social issues are compatible Manufacturing communication equipment and smart devices. have been developed so as to make useful properties of the 6.2 % material available. About risks and opportunities capital Dividend payout ratio related to external environment, see ⇒ P.37 Capital expenditures 51.0billion yen 42.9 % Annual sales volume of spark plugs Number of production bases: 4(NGK SPARK PLUG plants); Spark plugs 13(subsidiaries in Japan); 21(subsidiaries outside Japan) About 850 million units Cutting tools Business issues Intellectual capital Reform of the automobile industry R&D expenses Semiconductor IC packages Value provided to society Glow plugs Contribution to environmental issues Next-generation energy 28.3billion yen Cleaner automotive exhaust gas Expanding demand for Components for semiconductor Higher fuel economy Human production equipment semiconductors Contribution for a hydrogen capital energy-based society Aged society and extending Number of employees 16,430people Reduction of environmental healthy life expectancy Rate of overseas employees 44.9% Sensors pollutants Improvement of information Ceramic products for industrial use Social capital infrastructure Seventh Growth strategies Higher performance of Overseas sales ratio medium-term We aim to deliver “Real Value” electronic devices management plan 85.5％ to all stakeholders in 2020. Reduction of lead time at “Evolution” to “Real Value” manufacturing facilities Accelerating current & Effective use of equipment new businesses Higher safety FY2016 FY2020 Safety in automobile driving Development of medical technologies Higher QOL About Corporate Philosophy About Priority issues to be addressed Safety in surgical operations See ⇒P.55 & The Nittoku Way in relation to ESG Refer to “Priority Business Areas” on ⇒ P.39 See ⇒P.04 About Corporate Governance See ⇒P.68 Refer to “Business Strategy” on ⇒ P.89 NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 23 24 Business Infrastructure Morimura Group Stories for Value Creation Growth Strategies to Support Sustainable Growth Business Strategy Businesses Developed over the Years The 80-year history of NGK SPARK PLUG started with the production of plugs. Then, applying its core ceramics technologies, the company developed a number of businesses, which are currently organized into two major segments: the Automotive Components Group and the Technical Ceramics Group. We are also putting all our Revenue 52.2 efforts in building new business projects. billion yen Technical Ceramics Group 12.3 Operating income ratio Automotive 14.8 % % Components Group Operating income ratio − 0.9 81.8 % % Components for semiconductor production equipment Ceramic products for industrial use Electro-static chucks Piezoelectric ceramic components Revenue We offer electrostatic chucks, Ceramics generate electricity when force is 348.7 an indispensable item for semiconductor applied to them, while expanding/contracting manufacturing, by making use of the when voltage is applied. By making use of billion yen electrostatic property of ceramics. this property, we manufacture and supply piezoelectric elements for use in sounders and fluid sensors. Plugs Semiconductor packages and substrates Spark plug Glow plug In an internal combustion engine, acts as Assists with the startup of a diesel engine. We offer IC packages suitable for electronic a “lighter” to ignite the mixture of gasoline and smart devices as well as substrates Cutting tools and air. used in probe cards for semiconductor wafer Indispensable for the processing of inspection. automotive, industrial, aircraft and other components. We offer a wide lineup of products, including ceramic tools and those made of new materials. Sensors Zirconia oxygen sensor NOx sensor Used to measure the exhaust gas oxygen Used to precisely measure the concentration of Medical products concentration for air-fuel ratio control. NOx gas, a regulated substance, to ensure By making use of our ceramic materials, compliance with the NOx regulations, which have we manufacture medical products, such as recently been tightened. Can be used to bone prostheses and oxygen concentrators concurrently measure the concentration of for medical use. oxygen. Wide-range oxygen sensor Temperature sensor Solid Oxide Fuel Cell (SOFC) Others Paired with a dedicated interface, used Used to monitor the exhaust gas temperature for Generates electricity and heat through for wide-range air-fuel ratio control to the protection of exhaust system electrochemical reaction. We are developing maximize output according to the exhaust components and for the optimal control of the an SOFC stack for power generation. SOFCs gas oxygen concentration level. exhaust gas aftertreatment system, thereby are highly energy efficient fuel cells and are contributing to cleaner exhaust gas and higher fuel expected to be downsized and provided at efficiency. lower cost. NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 25 26 Business Infrastructure Morimura Group Stories for Value Creation Growth Strategies to Support Sustainable Growth Business Strategy Assets Built over the Years Financial capital Cash flows from operating activities While pursuing challenges and undergoing transformations, NGK SPARK PLUG has built up both financial and non-financial assets. Of particular note, our capital grew remarkably during the 10 years ended March 2020 under the “NITTOKU SHINKARON” long-term management plan. We will work to bolster this capital through continuing business while investing it to create new possibilities for future growth. 59.8 billion yen To ensure sustainable growth and increase corporate value, ongoing capital investment and R&D is indispensable. We have boosted the capacity to generate cash from operating activities, a source of investment funds for further business growth. Manufacturing capital Financial capital Capital expenditures Cash flows from operating activities 34.3 billion yen 51.0 billion yen Production bases Manufacturing capital 4 (NGK SPARK PLUG plants); 13 (subsidiaries in Japan); Capital expenditures 21 (subsidiaries outside Japan) 11.0 billion yen Anticipating an increase in sales of the automotive components, we have massively expanded capital expenditures. Major investments were made in the increased number of production bases in and outside of Japan to build structures enabling a timely response to customer needs. Production bases 4 (NGK SPARK PLUG plants)； 9 (subsidiaries in Japan)； Intellectual capital 16 (subsidiaries outside Japan) R&D expenses FY2009 FY2019 28.3 billion yen Intellectual capital R&D expenses have increased as we made upfront investments in R&D projects, seeking to reform our business portfolio. Investments have been R&D expenses (J-GAAP) diversified in different projects targeting commercialization in relation to element (IFRS) technologies, new materials and process technologies, among others. 13.9 billion yen Human capital Number of employees Ratio of overseas employees Human capital Number of employees Ratio of overseas employees 16,430 44.9 % 11,795 people 30.8 % We have increased the number of employees in accordance with our business expansion. The rate of overseas employees has risen notably as we set up more bases outside of Japan and implemented international M&A projects. Social capital Social capital Overseas sales ratio 78.1 Overseas sales ratio 85.5 % % The overseas sales ratio has increased as a result of expanded sales of plugs and sensors to overseas markets, mainly in China and other emerging economies that have enjoyed steady growth and in developed economies facing tightened fuel efficiency requirements and environmental regulations. NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 27 28 Business Infrastructure Morimura Group Stories for Value Creation Growth Strategies to Support Sustainable Growth Business Strategy Performance Data Financial Highlights Non-financial Highlights Profit/return on equity (ROE) attributable Number of employees at work/ Net sales/Operating income/Operating income ratio to owners of the parent Number of new patents published percentage of overseas employees (Millions of yen) J-GAAP IFRS （%） (Millions of yen) J-GAAP IFRS (%) (Number of patents) (Number of persons) (%) 500,000 30 60,000 12.0 12 1,000 915 953 25,000 50 10.9 42.5 43.2 44.9 409,912 425,013 426,207 426,073 816 815 41.3 40.6 400,000 383,272 372,919 9.1 750 20,000 40 44,335 42,638 8.4 411 692 20 40,000 7.4 7.7 8 479 270 15,322 15,994 16,430 300,000 17.3 16.4 397 15,000 14,524 14,926 30 14.4 30,815 30,116 33,698 500 222 13.7 25,602 200,000 10.9 11.4 10,000 20 10 20,000 4 250 100,000 419 436 542 545 470 5,000 10 66,284 53,595 67,279 58,385 46,444 48,447 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 year ) ( Fiscal 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 ( Fiscal year ) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 year ) ( Fiscal 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 year ) ( Fiscal ■ Net sales ■ Operating income Operating income ratio ■ Profit attributable to owners of the parent ROE attributable to owners of the parent ■ In Japan ■ Outside Japan ■ Total number of employees Percentage of overseas employees We recorded an increase in revenue due to increased sales of automotive ROE decreased by 2.5% year on year due to a decrease in the profit The number of patents published in Japan has slightly decreased as a Against the background of M&As in and outside Japan, etc., the exhaust gas sensors but recorded a decline in profits, influenced by the attributable to owners of the parent. result that we adjusted the number of patent applications filed in Japan. consolidated number of employees tended to increase. suspension of automakers’ operations caused by the spread of the novel Since patents filed outside Japan are published sequentially, the number coronavirus. of patents published outside Japan stayed at a specific level. Return on invested capital (ROIC) Sales percentage of precious metal plugs and Equity ratio attributable to owners of the parent ROIC: Operating income after tax/Invested capital CO2 emissions wide-range oxygen sensors/NOx sensors (%) J-GAAP IFRS (%) J-GAAP IFRS (10,000 tons) (%) 100 12 11.4 35 50 31.17 31.48 32.57 31.38 10.0 30 28.63 40 39 41 80 37 25 34 36 64.4 62.5 64.3 63.4 60.2 59.7 8 39 60 30 8.5 8.2 20 34 40 15 20 26 4 6.2 6.2 24 10 22 20 10 5 0 0 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 year ) ( Fiscal 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 ( Fiscal year ) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 ( Fiscal year ) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 ( Fiscal year ) ■ CO2 emissions Precious metal plugs Wide-range oxygen sensors/NOx sensors As a goal of one of our Priority Issues, Responding to Climate Change, We have specified these items as environmentally friendly products in Equity ratio attributable to owners of the parent decreased year on year as We have adopted ROIC as a management indicator since April 2016 and we are striving to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, a factor contributing line with one of our Priority Issues, Providing Environmentally Friendly tangible fixed assets increased through capital investment made to set our goal in FY2020 at 13%. In FY2019, ROIC decreased by 2.0% year to climate change. We aim at reducing CO2 emissions by 30% by FY2030 Products. We aim to raise the sales percentage of each category to at enhance existing businesses and create new businesses and also on year due to a decrease in operating income. from the FY2018 level. least 50% of the total. because of borrowing and retirement of treasury stock. Number of employees who took childcare leave; Percentage of female/foreign-national/mid-career percentage of employees who returned to work Earnings per share Cash dividends per share/Dividend payout ratio employees in managerial posts (non-consolidated) after taking childcare leave (non-consolidated) (Yen) J-GAAP IFRS (Yen) J-GAAP IFRS （%） (Number of persons) (%) 250.00 150 50 (Number of persons) (%) 48.0 42.9 200 16 80 100 96 95 100 96 100 209.37 204.74 200.00 120 40 13.6 35.2 34.2 12.5 80 163.06 150 11.7 12 60 150.00 141.60 145.72 90 29.7 28.7 30 10.7 58 58 9.9 123 133 50 119.44 70 70 70 113 48 48 60 100.00 60 60 20 100 95 102 8 40 42 42 40 50.00 30 10 50 4 20 20 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 ( Fiscal ) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 ( Fiscal ) ( Fiscal ( Fiscal year ) year ) year year 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 ■ Cash dividends per share Dividend payout ratio ■ Number of female/foreign-national/mid-career employees in managerial posts Percentage of female/foreign-national/mid-career employees in managerial posts Earnings per share decreased year on year due to a decrease in the profit We are aiming at providing stable dividends, with the goal of a payout attributable to owners of the parent. ratio of 30% or more. In FY2019, the interim cash dividend was 35 yen As a goal of one of our Priority Issues, Global Human Resource Management, A total of about 50 employees, male and female employees combined, per share and the year-end cash dividend was 35 yen per share; therefore, we are promoting the diversity of management personnel, raising the take childcare leave every year. The return-to-work rate has remained the full-year cash dividend was 70 yen per share. The payout ratio came percentage of women, foreign nationals and mid-career employees in consistently high over the years. to 42.9%. managerial posts. We have set a target of increasing the percentage to 25%. Capital expenditures/depreciation R&D expenses Number of paid-leave days used (non-consolidated) Number of reports from whistleblowers (millions of yen) J-GAAP IFRS (Millions of yen) J-GAAP IFRS (Number of days) (%) (Number of reports) 60,000 56,587 30,000 28,072 28,797 28,315 30 100 100 48,771 51,004 25,283 84.36 45,339 23,123 23,416 75.64 78.52 80 80 80 73.39 73 40,000 36,328 37,591 20,000 20 65 31,952 16.56 60 60 54 30,186 14.42 14.85 15.41 50 23,979 40 40 20,000 19,601 20,920 10,000 10 16,837 20 20 0 0 0 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 ( Fiscal year ) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 year ) ( Fiscal 2015 2016 2017 2018 ( Fiscal year ) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 year ) ( Fiscal ■ Capital expenditures ■ Depreciation ■ Number of paid-leave days used Rate of paid-leave days used ■ Number of reports from whistleblowers *Fiscal year starts October. *Fiscal year starts October. We are promoting the Corporate Ethics Helpline, an internal reporting Capital expenditures for the past five years have totaled 200 billion yen in anticipation of Our ratio of R&D expenses to sales had traditionally been approximately 5% to 6%. It reached 6.6% in FY2019. The management and labor cooperate in encouraging use of paid leave, system, on an ongoing basis, mainly by holding seminars, creating increased sales of the automobile components business. Depreciation has increased over and the number of paid-leave days used is increasing, as a result. The posters and distributing pocket-size cards. As a result, the number of this period accordingly. total annual number for FY 2018 averages 19.63 days per person. reports received has been on the rise. NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 29 30 CONTENTS 33 35 Looking Back on Years under the Long-term Management Plan “NITTOKU SHINKARON” Risks and Opportunities in the External 3 Growth Strategies NGK SPARK PLUG formulated its long-term management plan “NITTOKU SHINKARON” in FY2010 Environment and subsequently worked to achieve “Our Ideal Image New Long-term Management Plan in the Year 2020.” Having reached the year 2020, we 37 2030 Long-term Management have now formulated the 2030 Long-term Management Plan “NITTOKU BX” Plan “NITTOKU BX” as our new long-term management 43 NGK SPARK PLUG’s Innovation plan for 2030, which we regard as a milestone year for 45 The Finance Officer Outlines the our growth over the next 20 years. Financial Strategy We will implement new strategies under this new plan, while at the same time looking back over the past 10 years to identify and solve any remaining issues. NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 31 32 Business Infrastructure Morimura Group Stories for Value Creation Growth Strategies to Support Sustainable Growth Business Strategy Looking Back on Years under the Long-term Management Plan “NITTOKU SHINKARON” The “NITTOKU SHINKARON” is NGK SPARK PLUG’s long-term management plan with the final year set as FY2019. Achievements made for “Our Ideal Image in the Year 2020” Under this plan, through the 3-year phases of “Delving,” “Renovating” and “Evolving,” we have been seeking to Unique core technology become the No. 1 leading “Monozukuri” company that delivers real value to customers across the world, a highly Monozukuri Optimum quality created by all-employee participation and • Established an overwhelmingly strong position for spark plugs Company manufacturing/technological innovation • Took the top spot in the exhaust gas sensor market profitable company, a progressive company and a human “asset” company toward the goal of delivering “Real The No. 1 leading company delivering “Real Value” Value” to all our stakeholders by 2020. In the following we will look back on the 10 years that we spent under the plan. Global manufacturing and sales networks • Achieved an operating income ratio of about 15% on average for five Highly Speedy, flexible business development capable of adapting years Profitable to change • Increased the overseas production rate from 30% to 40% Long-term Management Seventh medium-term management plan Company • Launched the RHQ system for empowerment and enhanced the Plan: NITTOKU SHINKARON (FY2010 to FY2019) (for FY2016 to FY2020) Sustained growth through strategic investment Group’s abilities Corporate governance system for elevating corporate value • Fostered discussions including those with outside directors and Assertive dialogue with stakeholders and contribution to enhanced governance Progressive • Conducted strategic M&As and formed JVs NGK people around the world Spark existing Delving Renovating Evolving Real Company Operations that will support the development of society (WELLS, Japan MDM, NTK CERATEC, CAIRE, MORIMURA SOFC Value business Plug TECHNOLOGY, CECYLLS) Fair corporate culture in which diverse personnel can further excel • Formulated the Nittoku Way Human Asset The Nittoku Way refers to the values of the NGK SPARK PLUG Group Framework that allows people to be autonomous, FY2010 to 2012 FY2013 to 2015 FY2016 to 2018 Company that all employees commit to sharing and passing down to the next challenging and active Delve into existing Launch new products Develop existing and new generation. business and seek or new business business High professional pride and company loyalty new business at an accelerated rate Looking back on the years under the seventh medium-term management plan Looking back on the Delving and Renovating years Evolving Real Value (FY2016 to FY2020) Delving (FY2010 to FY2012) Renovating (FY2013 to FY2015) Net sales, operating income and operating income ratio (FY2016 to FY2020) Target Sales revenue, operating income and operating income ratio (FY2010 to FY2015) 520,000 347,636 383,272 409,912 425,013 426,207 Target 329,758 372,919 20% or more 269,232 284,746 302,798 14.4 16.4 13.7 15.7 17.9 10.9 Target 17.3 100,000 10.7 8.6 53,595 67,279 58,385 46,444 7.8 28,770 24,478 23,754 51,661 62,196 66,284 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 (FY) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (FY) Sales revenue (millions of yen) Operating income (millions of yen) Operating income ratio (%) Sales revenue (millions of yen) Operating income (millions of yen) Operating income ratio (%) *Foreign exchange rates (for 1 dollar/1 euro) FY2016 (108 yen/119 yen) FY2017 (111 yen/130 yen) FY2018 (111 yen/128 yen) FY2019 (109 yen/121 yen) FY2020 (115 yen/120 yen) *Rates as of April 2016, when the announcement was made. *Foreign exchange rates (for 1 dollar/1 euro) *We started to apply IFRS from FY2020; however, Japanese GAAP was applied for the above FY2019 and FY2020 figures. *FY2010: 86 yen/113 yen; FY2011: 79 yen/109 yen; FY2012: 83 yen/107 yen; FY2013: 100 yen/135 yen; FY2014: 110 yen/139 yen; FY2015: 118 yen/132 yen Delving Renovating Accelerating Current & New Businesses Concept Delve into existing business and seek new business Launch new products or new business Delivering “Real Value” to all stakeholders in FY2020 1 2 3 Basic Establish footing for a strong business foundation and further Make maximum use of management resources, implementing bold development challenges in new business areas and sectors toward “Evolution” Establishing new Strengthening current Establishing strong policy business pillars businesses business infrastructure (1)Restructure and solidify current businesses via stronger (1)Provide new value in promising new areas via strategic marketing “Monozukuri” abilities activities FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 (2)Develop new products for the next generation via new R&D (2)Not only strengthen current core competencies, but also develop Issues to Substantially increased shipment for both plugs Successfully implemented the strategy for the Increased shipment for plugs and sensors Due to COVID-19, the automobile industry, along structure new core competencies focus on and sensors and boosted profit by streamlining Chinese market, as upheld in the seventh plan, as well as the ratio of high value-added with others, faced economic stagnation on a global (3)Strengthen organizational abilities via strategic use of personnel (3)Recognize that human “assets” are what will “Renovate” the production and reducing the cost (but profit thereby expanding sales and profit. Increased products, thereby improving the product basis. Despite this, NGK SPARK PLUG promoted resources company and accelerate the renovation of the company via nonetheless decreased year on year due to operating income by rationalization and cost mix. However, unable to cover increases in sales of high value-added plugs and sensors, designating and achieving our own commitments strong yen). Made progress with the structural reduction for productivity improvement. In the the expenses incurred outside the scope of and as a result sales increased year on year in reform of the semiconductor business, structural reform of the semiconductor business, existing businesses, such as the packaging the automotive components business, excluding To enhance our “Monozukuri” abilities, we established a Monozukuri Before launching new businesses, we discontinued the production of “selection and concentration” of products completed the consolidation of production & transportation cost, new business-related the impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations. center to make profound use of our competitive strength in plugs the organic package, transferred the dielectric business and made an and rationalization including personnel bases for higher productivity. Also improved cost and SG&A expenses for infrastructure In the semiconductor business, we achieved the across all our businesses. We also separated technological asset transfer in the business of ceramic tubes for vacuum circuit reduction, thereby greatly increasing revenue the product mix by expanding the shipment improvement. Fostered the building of a target of recording profit on a yearly basis for development and new business development functions to take breakers for the “selection and concentration” of our businesses. in the business. To solidify the management of packages for smartphones. For speedier system to establish a global supply chain as a FY2019, which we set in the seventh mediumAchievements speedier actions under the direct control of the president, while Meanwhile, we acquired all shares of NIHON CERATEC (presently NTK foundation, launched new organizations and decision-making, fostered the GHQ-RHQ plan core issue identified in the three-year Evolving term management plan. As for new business reforming the personnel system on a global basis. We also reduced CERATEC), put BIDEMICS on the market as a new cutting tool, programs with a focus on human resources. and localization. stage, and began conducting tests for the development, we established a new company for the number of directors to enhance the governance and transparency established a division for fuel cells and released hydrogen leak system in Europe. solid oxide fuel cells. of management and to speed up managerial decisions. detection sensors. We thus created a range of new businesses and •Increased the number of outside directors •Established the Nomination and Remuneration •Full compliance with the revised Corporate •Published the Sustainability Data Book products. to three Committees Governance Code •Certified as BRONZE CLASS in the Overall •Joined the UN Global Compact •Introduced the performance-linked stock •Included in the DJSI Asia Pacific Index for two Category and as SILVER CLASS in the 2010 • Founded the CSR Committee 2013 • Appointed an outside director •Began a program to develop the next remuneration system consecutive years Industries Category (Glass and Ceramics 2011 • Established the CSR Policy • Launched DIAMOND (Women’s Empowerment) Project generation of global business leaders •Turned overseas bases into regional •Certified as a Nadeshiko Brand company Products) at the SUSTAINA ESG AWARDS 2012 • Decreased the upper limit of the number of directors from 25 • Began holding global personnel conferences •Founded the Working Styles Reforming Office headquarters (RHQ) •Concluded with Komaki City a cooperation 2019 ESG to 13 introduced the corporate officer system 2014 • Increased the number of outside directors to two •Formulated the “Global Eco Vision 2020” •Designated as ESG investment stock agreement to assist people who need special •Certified as one of the Excellent Enterprises 2015 • Formulated the criteria for the appointment of independent •Certified as Bronze Class at the Sustainability medical care for home oxygen therapy of Health and Productivity Management 2020 measures directors Award 2017 •Certified as one of the Excellent Enterprises (“White 500”) • Began assessing the effectiveness of the Board of Directors •Certified as one of the Excellent Enterprises of Health and Productivity Management 2019 of Health and Productivity Management 2018 (“White 500”) • Established the working style reform committee (“White 500”) • Examination of the direction for the structural reform of the • Break away from 80%-plus reliance on internal combustion engines •Certified as one of the New Diversity Management Selection 100 companies semiconductor business • Share and strengthen internal technologies; and establish •Established the Diversity Promotion Section • Strengthen technical ceramics divisions a commercialization promotion structure Remaining •Response to contraction in the use of internal combustion engines and movement toward EVs and electrification: We are conducting examinations about products for EVs in cooperation with external partners, though • Strengthen control functions and globalization of headquarters • Create new businesses issues divisions • Strengthen management foundations toward business growth demand for ICE engines is still growing. • Thorough CSR • Improve organizational abilities •Development of new businesses: We have sown seeds, which now have to be grown. • Improve organizational abilities •Fair corporate culture that allows for diverse individuals to reach their potential: While the number of female managers increased and a foreign national was appointed to the position of corporate officer in the Evolving phase, the rates should be further increased, and it will take more time for the establishment of such a corporate culture. •Enrichment of corporate governance: While measures were taken to ensure compliance with the revised Corporate Governance Code, there remain issues regarding the implementation of rules at the GHQ and RHQ. NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 33 34 Business Infrastructure Morimura Group Stories for Value Creation Growth Strategies to Support Sustainable Growth Business Strategy Risks and Opportunities in the External Environment The markets surrounding NGK SPARK PLUG are entering a transitional phase, and our businesses are facing significant changes. We aim to identify shortto medium-term and long-term risks and opportunities, and to maximize profit in existing businesses, while also turning risks into chances and boldly embarking on the challenge of creating new businesses that look to the future. NGK SPARK PLUG’s viewpoint Risks and opportunities NGK SPARK PLUG’s measures Decline in the number of internal combustion engine vehicles Risk Optimize production and increase competitiveness to expand market share External environment Stricter environmental regulations Opportunity Increase market shares of high-performance plugs and sensors Mobility Expanding demand for automobiles in emerging economies Opportunity Improve the production systems of local plants Global environmental issues Change in people’s preferences regarding transportation means and Enhance marketing, provide maintenance services that meet individual lifestyles, increase electrical efficiency by the use of ceramic Risk Opportunity consumption components, and offer MaaS to meet specific needs Climate change Decarbonized society Store electricity and energy derived from renewable energy sources ⇒ Effective use of renewable energy Opportunity Develop SOECs and all-solid-state batteries Environmental destruction Energy Distributed power sources, and local production and local consumption Develop devices for distributed power supply ⇒ Opportunity of energy Develop and commercialize fuel cell batteries and all-solid-state batteries Information & Expansion of demand for semiconductors due to the International issues Opportunity Develop 5G and 6G high-speed communication devices and related components communication enhancement of communication performance Medical treatment and Expanded demand for devices for optimal treatment, disease Conduct the respirator business, provide artificial bones and derivative products by applying ceramic materials and offer Protectionism healthcare prevention, health management and recuperation Opportunity non-invasive treatment and disease prevention devices/services by the use of ultrasound technology Emerging economies Disparities in society Sensing Expansion of the sensing field Opportunity Make use of sensing IoT technology to foster automation, optimization and generalization for higher business efficiency Human rights Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions for a carbon-neutral society Risk Introduce environmental technologies ⇒ Introduce energy-saving equipment and renewable energy Replace hazardous chemical substances used in products with alternatives and spread the use of lead-free piezoelectric Establishment of a society Environment Stricter regulations on hazardous chemical substances Risk Opportunity materials where economic development and resolution of social issues Effective use of water resources Risk Reduce water use at high-risk bases are compatible Robots, automation, Diversification of human resources Risk Opportunity Secure professionals through mid-career employment, implement educational programs for manager candidates, reemploy employees reaching the mandatory retirement age and encourage the employment of foreign nationals labor saving Artificial intelligence (AI) Diversification of work styles and values Risk Opportunity Diversify work styles and provide work-life balance support systems (telecommuting, shorter working hours) Sensing IoT Nanotechnology Society Promotion of employees’ safety and health Risk Opportunity Foster health and productivity management and promote anti-pandemic measures Biotechnology Aging society with a Respect for human rights Risk Identify the impact of our business and implement measures decreasing birthrate Diversity Pandemic High-quality products and services Risk Opportunity Adhere to the “Quality Product” principle, and build and develop an even stronger quality management system Earthquakes Diversify managerial experiences and skills in response to changes in the management environment ⇒ Work-life balance Diversification of managerial human resources Risk Opportunity Increase the ratios of outside directors, female directors and non-Japanese directors Speedier managerial decisions Opportunity Foster DX ⇒ Foster digitization and visualization at plants and offices and in logistics, accounting and personnel operations Governance Measures for information security Risk Strengthen CSIRTs and incident-response organizations and foster awareness-raising activities Earthquakes and disasters caused by climate change Risk Make BCPs and enhance the supply chain NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 35 36 Business Infrastructure Morimura Group Stories for Value Creation Growth Strategies to Support Sustainable Growth Business Strategy New Long-term Management Plan 2030 Long-term Management Plan “NITTOKU BX” NGK SPARK PLUG has formulated the 2030 Long-term Management Plan “NITTOKU BX”, deeming 2030 as a 2030 Long-term Management Plan milestone year for the growth of the company over the next two decades. We will provide an overview of this plan. Changes in the external business environment According to these graphs, which forecast Millions of units Millions of units 140 2,500 the sales volume of new automobiles and 2040 Change drastically the numbers of automobiles owned by 120 100 2,000 Vision people around the world, the number of beyond the current way those equipped with internal combustion 80 1,500 engines will continue to increase until 60 1,000 around 2030. However, in the middle of 40 Delivering new value in the face of an ever-changing future. 500 the 2030s, the number will peak and begin 20 To meet large-scale global environmental changes, we too must change. to go down. We therefore need to shift 0 0 Creating an organization comprised of passionate individuals working together to a business structure that does not rely 2015 2020 2025 2030 2035 2040 2045 2050 2015 2020 2025 2030 2035 2040 2045 2050 to face challenges head-on in order to a better society. on the sales of products used in internal Worldwide sales of new automobiles Number of automobiles owned by people around the world We are transcending imagination with technology that transcends boundaries. combustion engines by the middle of the ■ FCEV ■ BEV ■ Diesel ■ PHEV ■ FHEV ■ MHEV ■ Spark Ignition ICE Equipped with internal combustion engines We are more than just a ceramics and 2030s. Source: Forecasts made by NGK SPARK PLUG based on data provided by IHS Markit Automotive through its “Mobility and Energy Future” service we are going in new directions. Transformation of the business portfolio NGK SPARK PLUG is currently doing business with a focus on internal combustion engines (ICE), but in the future, we need to be involved in more than ICE business and embrace the challenge of starting new businesses to transform our business structure. Specifically, as the 2040 targets, we aim to decrease Sales revenue composition the proportion of ICE business in our total Sales revenue from the current 80% to 40% while raising that of non-ICE business from the current 20% to 60%, 60% Non-ICE business thereby transforming our business portfolio. To achieve 40% these targets, we will decrease the ratio to 60% and 4,262billion yen increase the ratio to 40% for ICE business and nonICE business, respectively, as milestone targets for 20% 2040 Vision and the Long-term Management Plan 2030 under the 2030 Long-term Management Plan 60% “NITTOKU BX”. 80% 40% ICE business For the solution of various social issues, we need to search for a new way of doing business by thinking beyond “What ceramics can do.” We aim to meet the challenge of going “beyond ceramics” and “exceeding the imagination” of society and ourselves, thereby changing “drastically beyond the current way” in 2040. We have created the 2030 Long-term Management Plan 2020 2030 2040 (FY) “NITTOKU BX” by backcasting from the 2040 Vision. We regard 2030 as a milestone year to ensure we are on the right path heading into 2040. Structure of the 2030 Long-term Management Plan “NITTOKU BX” The 2030 Long-term Management Plan “NITTOKU BX” is a plan composed of three medium-term management plans: the seventh medium-term management plan (the last year of which is the first year of the long-term management plan), a four-year medium-term management plan and a five-year medium-term management plan. We will further concretize this 10-year plan. NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 37 38 Business Infrastructure Morimura Group Stories for Value Creation Growth Strategies to Support Sustainable Growth Business Strategy New Long-term Management Plan 2030 Long-term Management Plan NITTOKU BX Guiding principle Strategy: “Business Portfolio Transformation” for Growth We have upheld “Change with Will” as the guiding principle for the 2030 Long-term Management Plan. Specifically, with a strong commitment (“Will”), we will foster “Change” for coexistence with society As the mainstay of the Long-term Management Plan, we will foster “business portfolio transformation.” As for ICE-related and people. We aim to reform our organizations business, we will be able to expand revenue and operating income until 2030 in line with an increase in the number of and business structure with speed to make our ICE-equipped automobiles. In anticipation of the business environment in 2040, we will pursue rationalization, higher company one that can coexist with stakeholders efficiency and selection and concentration. For the “Environment & Energy,” “Medical” and “Information” business from a global perspective. We will instill this guiding domains, which are new to us and are not currently contributing to our profit, we will expand sales and profitability in principle in our employees for the achievement of each in the lead-up to 2030, aiming to turn these businesses into our profit pillars in 2040, although their operating the targets set in the plan. income margin may be still low in that year. We will increase efficiency in our ICE-related business with a focus on making profit, use the cash gained in that business for the growth businesses and achieve a profit growth rate that is higher than the market growth rate for the businesses. For new businesses, we will strictly screen the business themes to be continued, thereby promoting the “metabolism” of the businesses. Business fields to focus on In order to promote this kind of business portfolio transformation, it is essential to achieve the following three aims: We are focused on both existing and new businesses in four fields: Environment & Energy, Mobility, Medical, and Communication. management innovation, clarification of responsibilities and authority, and willful cultural change. We will break our Our core competence includes ceramic materials technology, sensing technology and a global production/sales system. We will dependence on ICE-related business based on this recognition. add “Something New” to these to create new value and foster “Open Innovation” both internally and externally, thereby achieving further growth in the four fields. Sales revenue composition ICE business Secure profit while transforming 1% 10% Growth businesses the business portfolio New businesses 17% Environment Energy To an Mobility To a mobile society energyefficient and that is fun and convenient environmentally friendly society •Providing maintenance services •Using sensing technology improving according to your lifestyle 30% ICE business industrial efficiency •Improving electricity by ceramic components Super-high efficiency and cash generation •Stable supply of regenerated energy •MaaS Providing services to fit special needs Environment & Mobility Growth businesses Energy 82% Dramatic development exceeding the market growth rate 60% New businesses “Metabolism” of themes and Core commercialization of cutting-edge themes Competence* FY2019 (Result) FY2029 (Forecast) *Numerical targets considered before the COVID-19 outbreak Medical To bring advanced Communication A high Specific measures medical care to people all over speed communication the world Medical Communication society where virtual and Management •Small, strong and agile head office to support business portfolio transformation •Applied ceramic materials to artificial bone reality are connected •Supporting high-speed 1 Innovation •Quick management decisions supported by DX •Non-invasive diagnosis and treatment, ⇒P.41 communication, provision of provision of preventive equipment and infrastructure parts services using ultrasound technology Clarification of •Strong authority and strict responsibilities to promote portfolio transformation 2 Responsibilities •Build an optimized structure and system for each business and Authority ⇒P.41 Willful Cultural 3 Change •Undertake culture reform and strengthen the Group’s abilities ⇒P.42 *Ceramic material technology, application technology in harsh environments, disparate material bonding technology, sensing technology, rapid high-temperature heating technology, and global production and sales system NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 39 40 Business Infrastructure Morimura Group Stories for Value Creation Growth Strategies to Support Sustainable Growth Business Strategy New Long-term Management Plan 2030 Long-term Management Plan NITTOKU BX 1 Management Innovation 3 Willful Cultural Change Create a strong, small, and agile head office. Supporting to speed up management Change the company, strengthen the Group, and achieve “change beyond recognition” decisions, and business portfolio transformation As a tool to speed up, we have invested digital infrastructures. Organically connecting , and producing the information necessary In order to foster management innovation and clarification of responsibilities and authority as explained above, it is important to for management decisions that were not seen before. raise the awareness of both the management team and employees alike. Each group needs to think about the meaning of their respective duties, being well aware of the guiding principle “Change with Will” as well as the need to “change drastically beyond the current way” and add “Something New” to increase their own value. This will help NGK SPARK PLUG to change from a “defensive company” to an “offensive company.” We will also press forward with reforms for diverse and flexible work styles/ lifestyles and to make our company one that can coexist with others by accepting mutual diversity. As a tool to speed up manageGlobal HR Cloud Factory Connected to Revamped ment decisions, we will organidatabase system digitization each base conference system cally foster DX investments to make invisible information visible. Promotion of work style Promotion of culture and lifestyle Promoting diversity reform Inventory database Logistic Inventory Accounting system Strengthened reforms system tracking security 2 Clarification of Responsibilities and Authority From conservative to progressive Promote work outside the company, Promote the employment of women, culture Pursue including telecommuting Flexibility of foreign nationals and mid-career We will speed up management operations even more. Specifically, in addition to proactively appointing external human resources to “IGNITE YOUR SPIRIT” working hours and multiple shifts hires (ratio of these to the total assume core positions, we also think it necessary to introduce performance-based rewards and evaluation systems that are suitable Foster common values and think Productivity improvement (30% number of managers: 25%) Proactive for each type of business, including growth businesses, stable businesses and those that need to be fundamentally reformed. optimally for all improvement from FY2019) use of external human resources We are also conducting specific examinations with a view to introducing an in-house company system and performing a spin-off. Moreover, based on the 2040 Vision, we will consider changing our corporate name in the future. Management target Purpose Purpose •Recruiting people suitable for Adapting •Adapted compensation & The 2030 Long-term Management Plan “NITTOKU BX” shows the midway milestone for our 2040 Vision. Under this plan, we Active a field and position Achievements, evaluation system to each will strive for business portfolio transformation, clarification of responsibilities and authority and investment in new businesses. In appointment of business and secure excellent Rewards & Evaluation line with the guiding principle, “Change with Will,” which should be followed by all employees, we will achieve “Beyond ceramics, Concrete measures external human human resources. System to each resources Concrete measures eXceeding imagination.” For the management targets for FY2029, we aim to achieve an operating income ratio of 15% or more, •Promotion of appointment to business key positions •Construction of the system that ROE of 12% or more, and ROIC of 10% or more. is suitable for each business Operating income ratio ROE ROIC Purpose Purpose 15 12 10 •Accelerating “Dokuritsu Jiei •“Break, to change a Change Division (take actions by oneself)” statement of determination System to Company name or or or Concrete measures Company System change % more % more % more or Holdings Concrete measures (FY2019: 10.9%) (FY2019: 8%) (FY2019: 7.7%) •Establishing organizational design, empowerment •Unification of Japanese and according to business field English •Names Rebuilding of a brand system, etc. NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 41 42 Business Infrastructure Morimura Group Stories for Value Creation Growth Strategies to Support Sustainable Growth Business Strategy New Long-term Management Plan NGK SPARK PLUG’s Innovation Break the Old Mold to Speedily Flow to the launch of a new business Incubation Launch of a new business Broadening of the scope and expansion of the area Develop a New Business for the Solution of Social Issues Business ideas Check Check Check New business Lots of ideas are screened to speedily Verification using a simplified sample Launch of the business and expansion of the area make a development plan Plan for the launch of a new business Representative Director, Member of the Board, Executive Vice President Toru Matsui Inputting resources intensively, targeting eight themes As described in the new long-term management plan, we will technologies and sales networks. For the resources that we intensively input resources targeting the following eight themes. do not own, we will gain access to them through M&A and We can achieve most of the targets by using our existing partnerships with other companies. Energy-efficient and environmentally friendly society Mobile society that is fun and convenient Establishing the Global Innovation Division to enhance the system •Use sensing technology that improves industrial •Provide maintenance services tailored to users’ Environment & Mobility efficiency Energy lifestyles •Stable supply of renewable energy •Improve electrical efficiency with ceramic components In April 2020, NGK SPARK PLUG established the Global As for the fields to be focused on, we will input resources •MaaS to meet special needs Innovation Division to accelerate its measures for new intensively into specific fields within the following large business Society that brings advanced businesses. The automobile industry is going through a oncedomains: “Environment & Energy,” “Mobility,” “Medical” and medical care to people all over the world Medical Communication in-a-century period of change, and our existing business with “Information.” At the same time, we will create new businesses •Apply ceramic materials to artificial bones High-speed communication society •Non-invasive diagnosis and treatment, and provision the industry will reach its peak in the middle of the 2030s and in fields at the periphery of our major business fields, thereby where virtual and reality are connected of preventive equipment and services using then begin to trend downward. Based on this assumption, expanding our markets and developing multiple businesses •Support high-speed communication and its ultrasound technology we have been working tirelessly to create a new business in a through one breakthrough. infrastructure proactive manner. The challenge that we should meet now is to reform It is, however, not easy to create a new business. You can do our mindset. For example, we have been listening to our it successfully only a handful of times out of 1,000 attempts. customers’ opinions in our marketing activities, but we are not It also takes time to make a new business sustainable, and good at leading the creation of a market. Also, we are strongly Toward the creation of value that only NGK SPARK PLUG can provide so we need to buckle down for the long haul to develop a committed to searching for seeds and technologies and good new business. at conducting extensive research into the seeds. However, I NGK SPARK PLUG has been searching for new business am afraid that we are poor at hitting on new ideas to turn the Last May, I had an opportunity to participate in an We are already looking to “Something New.” As a seeds by taking all possible approaches and making a concerted seeds into products. exhibition held with the participation of startup companies. result of promoting the use of external human resources, effort on a firm-wide basis and across all divisions, not just at Concerning these issues, we will work to uncover Through the event I learned that startups were launching employees are now getting more inspiration from one the R&D departments, such as the Engineering R&D Group and solutions, but not by sticking to our conventional methods. a range of businesses with passion and a strong another. There are some young employees who are the Business Development Division. For the future, we need to I have long experience in sales activities in the automotive commitment to solving social issues for the creation of a working with mindfulness. I would like to change the conduct activities to create and grow new businesses in a range components business but am an “amateur” in the sustainable society. It helped me reaffirm that innovation corporate culture under the leadership of these individuals. of fields while moving in the same direction as a whole. To this development of new businesses. However, because of starts with a commitment to sustainability. I feel that employees are otherwise confining themselves end, we established the Global Innovation Division. Its mission this lack of experience, I think I will be able to address the There are many companies besides startups that to their field of specialization and tend to have a narrow is to establish new profit pillars to support the company in and related issues from a new viewpoint and not be trapped by work for the solution of social issues. For NGK SPARK perspective. I would like to get them out of their shells. after 2030. conventional ideas. PLUG, as one such company, to make contributions in As mentioned above, NGK SPARK PLUG appointed a this field, it is important that we have value that only we foreign national to serve as head of the Global Innovation can provide. We need to offer uniqueness through our Division as the first appointment of a foreign national to For the speedy launch of a new business products if we want to sell them, and if we cannot sell lead a head office division in the history of the company. our products, we cannot make contributions to society When working to develop a new business, we might through them. We need to meet this great challenge of face uncertainties and a chaotic situation. However, we Concerning the flow to the launch of a new business, we business development: solution-based development building competitiveness with uniqueness. have human resources who are ready to tackle such will adopt the “agile development*” method when applying and technology-based development. Technology-based I think we can address specific issues by combining situations and are actually doing it with autonomy. We existing technologies for the development of a new business, development represents our traditional development method, technologies that are relatively robust, if not absolutely so will make use of the power of these human resources to thereby shortening the lead time. NGK SPARK PLUG did not but we have added a new aspect to it. When developing However, because we view things in a limited manner, our foster innovation. Looking ahead to the next term, we can have enough experience in the agile development method a new business, we used to aim for the supply of a new product lineup is also limited. I think we need to take a already see the light. and so we appointed Mr. Dirk Schapeler to head up the component as the goal, but now we aim to propose broader view of things to broaden the lineup. Global Innovation Division, as he has abundant expertise applications and offer related services in addition to regarding the method and new business development. commercializing a new product. We have also adopted a two-pronged approach to new * Agile development: Development method designed to shorten the lead time NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 43 44 Business Infrastructure Morimura Group Stories for Value Creation Growth Strategies to Support Sustainable Growth Business Strategy New Long-term Management Plan The Finance Officer Outlines the Financial Strategy Distributing the cash gained by increasing the sales of high value-added products, such as precious-metal plugs and wide-range oxygen sensors. Sales revenue composition in ICE business in a balanced ICE business We have great earning power in ICE business and Growth businesses 1% 10% can increase our profitability even more. Based on our New businesses 17% manner to multiple businesses, technological advantages and global sales channels, we 30% will continue to maintain high profitability. Also, for capital including new and growth investment, we have already completed large investments in ICE-related business and will make only minor businesses, while maintaining investments in the future, specifically to repair or replace 82% our existing equipment. This will make it easier for us to a robust financial structure maintain high profitability. 60% By maximizing our performance in the core automotive components business, we will achieve an operating income margin of 15% or more, which is one of the targets set in “NITTOKU BX”. FY2019 (Results) FY2031 (Forecast) * Operating Member of the Board Executive Officer 10.9% 15% or more income margin Corporate Administration Group ROIC 6.2% 10% or more Kenji Isobe ROE 7.7% 12% or more *Numerical targets considered before COVID-19 outbreak Secure profit while transforming the Recent features of our financial strategy business portfolio We are now in the final year of the seventh medium-term opportunity. I therefore think it essential to make investments management plan, which ends in FY2020. Recently, the as needed. We thus continued to make investments also growth rate of the cost of sales and SG&A expenses has when our sales were stagnant, which increased the ratio Balanced allocation of cash with a focus on growth investment been exceeding that of sales, and there are two reasons for of SG&A expenses to revenue. this tendency. For R&D, I believe that the value of our company lies in For the first reason, we have been proactively making creating new products as a manufacturer with core As for the usage of earned cash, I think it is important to use Specifically, we plan to allocate 20%, 25%, 20%, 10% and capital and R&D investments. Anticipating an expansion technologies for ceramics and the ratio of R&D cost to it in a balanced manner. For the next decade, we will allocate 25% of the cash to ICE business, growth businesses, new of sales in the automotive components business, we have revenue has been high for years. We need to make R&D the cash gained through ICE-related business in a balanced businesses, M&A and other development projects, and invested around 200 billion yen in equipment over the last five investments on a continual basis for the 10 years targeted manner to the SPE, medical, fuel cell and other growth and shareholders respectively. years, while also investing in R&D as an upfront investment to under the 2030 Long-term Management Plan “NITTOKU BX”, new businesses, to M&A projects, and to shareholders. develop new businesses to transform our business portfolio which we launched in FY2020 as our new long-term in light of the fact that sales of internal combustion engines management plan. are predicted to reach a long-term peak. For the second reason, corporate expenses increased Cash allocation for the period from FY2020 to FY2029 (on a cash-flow basis) For capital investment, the automobile industry attributes as social demands for corporate governance and others importance to quality, and it therefore takes time to for us to expanded. In order to meet such social demands, we made complete the process from making a capital investment to more investments to build governance and compliance the release of a new product in the market. Accordingly, systems as the management foundation, which increased Shareholders ICE business we need to make investments earlier in the automotive components business than in other businesses. Around the SG&A expenses. However, these investments are necessary for sustainable corporate growth. 25% 20% time of the collapse of Lehman Brothers, we hesitated to make capital investments and as a result missed a business M&A and other development projects Growth Making better use of the earning power for higher profitability 10% New businesses businesses 20% 25% Toward FY2029, which is the last year of “NITTOKU BX”, we a precondition for this, we need to secure profit steadily in aim to transform our business portfolio so that ICE-related ICE-related business, which we expect to grow further until business and the growth and new businesses will account FY2029. Even if the automobile market does not expand as Proactively allocate cash to new and for 60% and 40% of our revenue, respectively. However, as expected, we will be able to increase our revenue and profit growth businesses NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 45 46 Business Infrastructure Morimura Group Stories for Value Creation Growth Strategies to Support Sustainable Growth Business Strategy New Long-term Management Plan The Finance Officer Outlines the Financial Strategy Maintaining the rating and reinforcing corporate resilience based on a strong financial structure While the spread of COVID-19 is having an impact on 60%. The appropriate capital adequacy ratio differs by companies, their resilience against the crisis seems to company, but if we can maintain the rate of 60%, we will be depend on the strength of their financial structures. The able to continue to receive a stable high investment-grade impact of the infectious disease on our company is relatively rating going forward. small, because we have a strong financial structure. In the future, we might face changes in our external COVID-19 has also changed the ideas of shareholders and environment more frequently than before, with factors that investors. “Before coronavirus,” we received many comments might affect our business management including infectious calling on us to make growth investments and return profit to diseases such as COVID-19 as well as natural disasters and shareholders rather than retaining earnings within the company. other risks that cannot be predicted in advance, along with Now, however, the number of those who want this seems to large economic fluctuations. Based on this recognition, we have decreased somewhat. will continue to maintain a capital adequacy ratio of 60% However, our capital adequacy ratio has been showing and a strong financial basis so that we can receive a high a tendency to decrease recently and has dropped to about rating on a continual basis. Promoting ROIC management from a long-term viewpoint In FY2016, when we launched the seventh medium-term is increased inventory. For OEM products to be supplied management plan, we introduced ROIC as a business to manufacturers, we need to have enough inventory management indicator with an eye to eliminating the for immediate supply at all times as the basic rule. Due corporate culture of attributing importance to PL. to COVID-19, our sales volume temporarily decreased Recently ROIC has been showing a downward for OEM products and so we should have cut down tendency at our company, and one of the causes of this the amount of raw materials that we ordered for the manufacture of these products. However, we did not in Returning profit to shareholders with a focus on the dividend payout ratio fact reduce the amount for the purpose of maintaining the sustainability of the supply chain and the sustainable growth of the whole industry, and also in consideration of NGK SPARK PLUG has been upholding the stable allocate 25% of profit gained to shareholders on a cashthe impact on suppliers of the materials. As a result, the payment of dividends as its policy on shareholder return, out basis, with the dividend payout ratio at around 40%. inventory of raw materials expanded. while continuing to review this policy on an ongoing basis. We will decide on the dividend payout ratio annually, in However, this is a temporary phenomenon and In the society of the future, uncertainties will increase, consideration of the business environment for the year. if the sales level returns to normal, the issue will be and the economic cycle will become shorter. Amid this When we make profit, we will return it appropriately to resolved. For ROIC, we need to view it from a long-term situation, how should we return profit to our shareholders? shareholders but when we do not make profit, we will limit perspective. By using the ROIC tree more carefully and at We have had repeated discussions on this question and the return. I believe that we can gain the understanding grassroot levels on-site, we need to link the ROIC target have changed our policy to focus on the dividend payout of shareholders and investors about this policy on the upheld by the company with the ROIC target set by onratio in and after FY2020. Over the decade to FY2029, payment of dividends. site employees. which is the period set for “NITTOKU BX”, we plan to We are facing these challenges and are still only halfway to the goal for ROIC management. In the next term we will restructure the organization and introduce an in-house company system, but we will continue to Steadily implementing the financial strategy to attain the targets promote and enhance the use of ROIC as a performance indicator. In FY2019 we introduced the International Financial Reporting organization in the next term and launch new businesses, Standards (IFRS) to the company, as we conduct business we expect that we will be able to optimize our tax payment on a global basis and nearly 30% of our shareholders are through this consolidation when we have both profitable and foreign nationals. By making financial reports based on the unprofitable companies within the Group. IFRS, I think we can further increase the corporate value of We will steadily implement these initiatives and the our company. financial strategy for the achievement of the targets set in We also began making consolidated tax payment in April “NITTOKU BX”. 2020. In consideration of the fact that we will restructure our NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 47 48 CONTENTS 51 Sustainability at NGK SPARK PLUG Corporate Governance 4 Business Infrastructure to Support Sustainable Growth We have promoted internal reform to establish strong business infrastructure as a key initiative set forth in the 68 Interview with Outside Directors seventh medium-term management plan ending FY2020. 55 Priority Issues 71 Management System We will continue with reform efforts under the 2030 57 Response to Climate Change 75 Corporate Governance System and Environmental Long-Term Management Plan “NITTOKU BX”, started Management 82 Risk Management FY2020, to enhance the Group’s organizational capacity 61 Human Resources 84 Information Security and develop strong business infrastructure, with the aim Development to Ensure 85 Measures against COVID-19 Sustainable Growth of ensuring sustainable growth. 87 Compliance 65 Respect for human rights 66 Proper procurement 67 Stakeholder Engagement NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 49 50 Business Infrastructure Morimura Group Stories for Value Creation Growth Strategies to Support Sustainable Growth Business Strategy NGK SPARK PLUG’s Sustainability Sustainability Adds to are not aware will lead to achieving the SDGs. To eliminate this gap between what employees do and goals. While employee sensitization on issues of CSR has been conducted since before the department was their awareness, the Sustainability Promotion Department is established, I feel that the initiative by the department has the Company’s Strength showing them examples of how the SDGs are incorporated into their everyday operations in order to renew their facilitated the implementation of such awareness-raising activity. awareness of these global goals. It is expected that this The renewed promotion framework has helped the Linking Business to Social activity of the department will encourage employees to see senior management and employees begin to see the SDGs, the SDGs as an issue more relevant to them, realize that they sustainability, and other key issues as something more Responsibility can do something, and explore what activities they can connected to them, understand that the issues are clearly at Member of the Board promote, leading to the expansion of their initiatives for the hand, and motivate them to advance CSR efforts. Executive Officer Corporate Strategy Group Sustainability promotion framework Mikihiko Kato CSR and Sustainability Committee Sustainability Promotion Dept. From “defensive CSR” to “aggressive CSR” Risk Management Compliance Quality Information Security Environment Safety and Health Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Our CSR activities have been conducted mainly by two developed to complement the Corporate Philosophy. organizations: The CSR Promotion Dept. and the CSR The CSR and Sustainability Committee is chaired by Committee, both established in 2010. At the beginning, the Board directer. Committee meetings are held regularly twice a Corporate Philosophy and The Nittoku Way—the basis of our sustainability activities were based on the concept of “corporate social year, attended by all the board directors including outside responsibility = legal compliance” and thereby focusing directors and chairs of task force committees in areas primarily on compliance issues—particularly the then hot relevant to the meeting subject (environment, safety and The purpose of our existence, or what we are committed to, When we intend to change ourselves, we also need to issue of prevention of unfair competition. This stance is what health, quality, etc.). is stated in the Corporate Philosophy established in 1996. think about what should remain unchanged. This is where the is so-called “defensive CSR.” In the meetings, the participants discuss the priority Although the word “sustainability” is not mentioned, the Corporate Philosophy and The Nittoku Way become In the meantime, in our business activities, we have been issues set for each fiscal year and the chairs of task force principles lead to sustainability. important. They contribute to our sustainable development. developing spark plugs, oxygen sensors, and other products committees report on their activities. Company-wide CSR The Nittoku Way, on the other hand, provides our shared We share these principles in training for new recruits and that meet environmental regulations in response to social activities are also evaluated and proposed, and this is when values and manners in which we should act. It is a set of different levels of employees and repeatedly tell employees demand. While doing so, we began to realize that these the committee’s activities are most directly connected to the principles structured and organized by tracing back the that they are valuable for the company and must be business activities can also be considered as CSR activities in company’s management. company’s history to Morimura Gumi, its roots, and by adhered to. a broader sense. We also became aware that our daily The Sustainability Promotion Dept., established within reflecting on its corporate mission with fresh eyes. Corporate Philosophy, The Nittoku Way Page 4 business practices must incorporate social responsibility, the Corporate Strategy Group, works on diverse issues In 2017, when The Nittoku Way was drawn up, we were Another important guidepost for us is “Change with such as the use of packaging of spark plugs, sensors, and including the SDGs in close connection with the senior expanding our business vigorously through overseas M&As Will!!,” action guidelines set out in our new Long-Term other products designed not just to reduce costs and management and plays the role of a bridge between inside and the creation of new business lines, which brought about Management Plan. “The key words with” (coexistence) and increase usability, but also to minimize the environmental and outside the company. One of the major duties performed the rapid diversification of human resources and their values “Will” in the guidelines share underlying principles with the impact upon disposal by customers. Thus, for us, CSR as part of this bridging role is to communicate opinions and at our Group. To consolidate the unity of the Group while Corporate Philosophy and The Nittoku Way, and “Change” activities now encompass a wide range of business practices, requests from stakeholders outside the company—which continuing the diversification of human resources, even during expresses our need to change on the foundation of those including the development of new products that contribute to have been increasing in number and variety recently—to the such a transitional period for the Group, we established The principles. We will ensure that employees will also become solving social issues. company’s senior management and, when necessary, explain Nittoku Way, which clarifies our strengths, values and stance. familiar with this meaning of the guidelines. This change in our way of looking at CSR has coincided the company’s view and response to the stakeholders. The Long-Term Management Plan Page 37 with a major social movement to spotlight the Sustainable department also serves a public relations function to actively Development Goals (SDGs). In response to these internal and disseminate information on the company’s contribution to the external trends, we have decided to clarify our shift in stance SDGs and news related to the company’s sustainability and Identification of Priority issues toward “aggressive CSR” and renew our structure CSR activities. accordingly. Another important role of the Sustainability Promotion More specifically, we have established the Sustainability Dept. is to raise employees’ awareness of how their activities To formulate the new Long-Term Management Plan, we Because stakeholders are diverse and their thoughts Promotion Dept. within the Corporate Strategy Group. The lead to achieving the SDGs. identified material sustainability issues to which priority must vary, a key to effectively selecting the right priority issues with CSR Committee has been renamed the CSR and Even when employees are engaging in activities be given. These issues were selected from the following two high materiality for stakeholders is to maintain objectivity. For Sustainability Committee, and task force committees that associated with the SDGs, it is not necessarily the case that perspectives: materiality for stakeholders and materiality for future selection, we, therefore, need a system that allows us focus on various areas have also been reorganized. they are aware of it. As a matter of fact, there are many our company. to objectively determine the level of materiality for each issue, Furthermore, the CSR and Sustainability Charter has been activities currently underway at the company that employees Priority issues Page 55 such as scoring each check item and prioritizing issues in NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 51 52 Business Infrastructure Morimura Group Stories for Value Creation Growth Strategies to Support Sustainable Growth Business Strategy NGK SPARK PLUG s Sustainability accordance with the total scores. As we thus initiated the process of enhancing our risk someone’s personality you don’t like, if such a view or When it comes to the materiality for our company, on the management and risk management awareness was rising We also have launched a new program called the Nittoku personality is his/her strength, we need to fully leverage that other hand, we have issues, such as compliance, that have among employees, we were able to respond swiftly to the Business School, which can be described as the NGK strength. This is, in my view, what diversity is. We will proceed already been dealt with profoundly for many years and for outbreak of COVID-19 with the safety and health of employSPARK PLUG version of a business school. Evolving out of with measures to maximize the potential of our personnel, which a management structure exists, as well as issues for ees foremost in our mind. and replacing the HAGI Program, which was designed for including women and foreign employees, from this kind of which a management structure has yet to be put in place. The COVID-19 pandemic also gave us an opportunity to candidates of next officers (M1 HAGI) and candidates of next broad perspective. These two types of issues have been clearly distinguished, gain risk management experience. Such experience includes general managers (M2 HAGI), the Nittoku Business School is With regards to the issue of participation of women, we and consensus has been reached within the company with the revision of the guidelines prepared at the time of outbreak targeted at personnel in section chief-class positions. aim to raise the ratio of women in managerial positions. But I regard to their order of priority. of severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) several years Our basic education policy was previously based on the personally feel uncomfortable about simply achieving the We will work first and foremost on these issues with high ago and the modification of parts of the guidelines that are idea of providing education to everyone equally, but this has target number. Making continuous efforts to raise the ratio of materiality selected from the two perspectives. Needless to unfeasible to implement, as well as the verification of our been changed to focus more on providing intensive education women in managerial positions itself should lead to say, we will set key performance indicators for each check contingency framework. to those selected. As a matter of fact, many trainees of the strengthening the company in the long-term. item to accurately monitor the progress of our efforts. It is difficult to make perfect contingency plans by preNittoku Business School rate the program as “very I myself have been involved in many HR development Let me explain from the next paragraph how we will dicting what will happen in a crisis in normal times. We will stimulating and motivating.” projects. What I felt from this experience is that the “seeaddress some of the priority issues identified, for which continue examining and modifying the infection response When these personnel of new generations who received what-I-do-and-learn-from-that” approach does not work. particular attention is required. guidelines. We will, needless to say, also enhance preparedour education have grown, more solid global HR Instead, those in higher positions must acknowledge it to be ness against various other risks, including earthquakes and management will become possible. their duty to nurture their staff to become full-fledged Response to climate change other natural disasters, through conducting drills and by other When we talk about diversity, we tend to pay attention to managers. Human resources must be developed with a clear Climate change is a serious threat that may severely damage means. the participation of women and foreign personnel. But this is intention. Supervisors need to be prepared to do what needs the entire Earth in the future. If the climate changes radically, not all that diversity is about. to be done, even as far as to expose both of their strengths its impact will go far beyond affecting the economy. Climate Information security Our company has not been able to fully take advantage and weaknesses and tell their staff to become a better change is already hitting many places so severely that we Similarly to infection and natural disasters, information of our human resources with a particular strength and manager than them. This is the way they can contribute to cannot remain indifferent to the issue. We have been fully security is also an issue with risks that need to be addressed personality. But, to embark on something new, we should the long-term growth of the company. aware of the importance of the climate change issue and properly, including cyberattacks and other increasingly maximize human resources who may have some weaknesses working on various environmental tasks based on the Global complex and sophisticated network intrusion attacks. With but who really excel at something. Instead of focusing on Eco Vision 2020, such as the reduction of CO2 emissions, the aim of countering such threats, the Computer Security someone’s view that is different from yours or parts of under the initiative of the Environment & Safety Management Incident Response Team (CSIRT) has been formed to handle Dept. We also declared our support for the recommendations any incidents that occur, as well as to provide education to of the FSB Task Force on Climate-related Financial and raise awareness of employees globally. Disseminating our efforts to contribute to society through our business Disclosures (TCFD) in July 2020. Information security is also a task that automakers and In the next Global Eco Vision initiative starting from other customers expect us to fulfill. We have a system in FY2021, we will raise the bar on our efforts by replacing the place that enables us to meet customers’ stringent NGK SPARK PLUG has up to now been focusing on the business to become aware of the importance of fulfilling current targets on a basic unit basis with those on an requirements and will beef up our efforts to prevent securitydevelopment and production of components of internal social responsibility and thereby create a wider network of absolute value basis. Since our production is expected to related incidents from occurring. combustion engines. We have been developing and social contribution. increase, setting targets on an absolute value basis can be delivering products that meet ever tighter regulations, which said to be very challenging. To achieve these targets, we Global human resources management we believe has been a great social contribution. need some structural changes. We are planning to At NGK SPARK PLUG Group, foreign employees account for However, when a new technology that replaces the accomplish the targets through the use of a combination of about 40% of the total. As the need for overseas business internal combustion engine is developed, we must cultivate multiple measures, such as those for creating new energy management is increasing, and with a view to the future new businesses that go beyond the existing scope of our sources and turning sustainability efforts into new business expansion of our business domains, we must continue to operations to further promote our social contribution. Oxygen opportunities. manage diverse employees. We have been shifting our concentrators, which are our main products in the medical Climate change is not an issue that can be solved within approach to HR management from an “administrative” to a business, and lead-free piezoelectric products are some of a short period by one company alone. We will start to see “strategic” approach. The establishment of the Strategic the examples that are expected to contribute to solving social tangible progress only when a large number of small waves Human Resources Department in April 2017 is one example issues as well as to help expand our business domains. made by each company join together to create a big wave. of such efforts. We now know about almost every employee We are thus making many efforts to expand the range of To be a part of such a big wave, we will move ahead with working with us globally. our socially responsible businesses. But, as I said at the what we can do step by step. Our global HR development program (“HAGI Program”) beginning, we need to link our business activities to the SDGs has always included several foreign trainees. The program is and other global sustainability goals and disseminate our Risk management meaningful for trainees as it provides them with such a efforts both inside and outside the company. This will lead our Risk management is also another important priority issue for diverse learning environment, and an increasing number of employees and the stakeholders associated with our us. We established the Risk Management Committee in April former trainees are joining the management of the company. 2020 as a task force committee focusing on this issue. The The third term of the program will start in FY2020. In task force committee will compile a company-wide risk map addition to this program, we will also provide a different and assess the impact of each risk based on the map to educational opportunity for those of younger generations prioritize them. including foreign employees. NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 53 54 Business Infrastructure Morimura Group Stories for Value Creation Growth Strategies to Support Sustainable Growth Business Strategy Priority Issues CSR and Sustainability Charter We are committed to contributing to the realization of a sustainable society, thereby aiming to increase our corporate value. To this end, we first need to accurately understand the issues facing society, and then define We contribute to developing a sustainable society, priority issues (materiality) to be addressed by our group in reference to ESG (Environmental, Social, and Governance) factors and set appropriate goals from mediumto long-term perspectives. thereby improving our corporate value. s ociety Taking the above-stated steps, we have identified eight priority issues for the three ESG areas, and various We build initiatives aimed at realizing a sustainable society have been set in association with each issue. To implement these relations of trust We cocreate and initiatives, progress will be monitored by the CSR and Sustainability Committee and reviews will be conducted in with our stakeholders provide new value to response to changes in the business environment, stakeholders’ expectations and activity conditions. while making highly transparent decisions help solve social issues. G overnance and actions. Steps to define priority issues E nvironment Priority issues Contribution to SDGs Major Initiatives Goals and Outputs Identify societal requirements (issues) in 1 reference to the United Nations Globa STEP Compact, SDGs, ISO 26000, GRI Responding to climate Reduction of CO2 emissions CO2 emissions: 30% reduction from the FY2018 Standards, ESG surveys, industry change level by FY2030 Identify issues guidelines and other companies’ benchmarks. Sales ratio of precious metal plugs: Environment E Providing environmentally Dissemination and expansion of at least 50% friendly products environmentally friendly products Sales ratio of wide-range oxygen sensors and NOx Conduct materiality assessment for sensors: at least 50% stakeholders in reference to international STEP 2 guidelines and ESG surveys used in Step 1, and for our company in consideration Development of Development of fuel cells Popularization of high-efficiency distributed power supply systems with an eye on the use of CO2-free hydrogen fuel of past activities and future management technologies, products, and Analyze and prioritize plans, and create a map to present businesses for contributing Development of lead-free Facilitating substitution for lead-based piezoelectric issues assessment results. to the resolution of social piezoelectric materials materials issues Society Development of sensing IoT business Improving operational efficiency through automation, S optimization and generalization Using the map made in Step 2, select higher materiality items as priority Hiring of female, foreign Percentage of female, foreign national and mid 3 issues, which will be established after Global human resources national and mid-career employees career executives: at least 25% STEP approval by the CSR and Sustainability management Improved results of employee Examination of new personnel systems Committee, which includes outside satisfaction surveys Select priority issues directors as members. Increasing the percentage of Percentage of female and foreign national directors: female and foreign national directors at least 30% Corporate governance High Increasing the percentage of outside directors Percentage of outside directors: at least one-third Importance to stakeholders Business impact analysis Disclosure of risk identification processes and Risk management (creation of risk maps) and responses responses Priority issues Governance G Compliance Awareness surveys and continuous education for executives and employee Conducting compliance questionnaires and disclosing results Maintenance and enhancement of the Strengthening activities through establishment of Information security computer security incident response dedicated committees team (CSIRT) system Medium Importance to our company High NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 55 56 Business Infrastructure Morimura Group Stories for Value Creation Growth Strategies to Support Sustainable Growth Business Strategy Response to Climate Change and Environmental Management Environmental Policy Response to Climate Change NGK SPARK PLUG Group set its per-unit CO2 emissions reduction target in its Global Eco Vision 2020 as part of efforts to As a globally developing core manufacturing corporation, we are aiming to simultaneously realize environmental reduce greenhouse gas emissions, a factor contributing to climate change. To attain this target, we are striving to diminish preservation and corporate growth, based on the participation of all our employees, in order contribute to the our energy usage. construction of a sustainable society. In FY2019, we posted per-unit CO2 emissions of 1.15 tons/million yen for Group companies in Japan (with integrated Action Guidelines certification), which fell short of the target of 1.13 tons/million yen for the year (down 13% from the FY2015 level). This was primarily related to the need to keep factory lines running even when production of our major products decreased as the • We strive to utilize our unique technology to develop and offer environmentally friendly products. global economy slowed due to an impact of US-China trade friction. To make up for the delay in achieving the target, • Through all of our business activities, we make particular efforts to prevent global warming, ensure efficient use of resources, and control chemical substances, in order to conserve the environment. additional efforts were exerted chiefly through improving compressed air and air conditioning usage, but only to the extent • We strive to raise the awareness of the environment among our employees to ensure that they all make positive efforts to conserve the that it was almost successful. The Group’s total CO2 emissions decreased year on year to 310,000 tons in FY2019. environment. We will continue promoting various measures toward a new target set under the next Eco Vision starting FY2021 to • We observe the laws, ordinances, and agreements concerning environmental conservation. reduce CO2 emissions by 30% from the FY2018 level by FY2030. • We aim to substantiate our information disclosure and communication activities, and also carry out environmental contribution activities CO2 emissions from energy use aimed at coexistence with the regional community. (10,000 tons-CO2) • In order to achieve these targets, we will strive to make ongoing improvements to our environmental management system. 40 1.30 1.27 1.18 1.15 1.15 For purchased electricity, Africa 31.48 32.57 31.38 North the CO2 emission 30 31.17 1.4% coefficient specified for 28.63 America Global Eco Vision 2020 3.69 5.03 5.37 6.06 5.29 Regional 19.0% each country under the 1.51 1.29 1.36 1.27 composition GHG Protocol is used; for 1.29 20 Asia fuel, coefficients used in To promote environmental conservation activities, we set a medium-term Eco Vision. The ongoing Global Eco Vision 2020 40.7% of emissions Japan are applied. outside Japan was started in FY2016 and set forth four priority issues related to “natural resources,” “global warming,” “toxic, hazardous 10 23.65 24.63 24.82 25.15 24.82 chemicals” and “key quality (development of environmentally friendly products).” We are tackling these issues through Europe South America business activities, creating platforms for education (awareness raising), compliance and open communication, and aiming 9.8% 29.1% to enhance our manufacturing capabilities, increase our brand value and promote the sustainable development of our 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (Fiscal year) business as well as society at large. ■ Group companies in Japan (with integrated certification) ■ Group companies in Japan (without integrated certification) We are preparing the next Eco Vision to start in FY2021. ■ Group companies outside Japan Per-unit (Group companies in Japan with integrated certification) Environmental activity promotion organizations Environmental Administrator (President) Support for the TCFD Recommendations Central Environmental Central Environmental Committee Committee Chairman In July 2020, NGK SPARK PLUG Group announced its support Chief Central Environmental Administrator Regional environmental Regional environmental administrator administrator Head of the division Head of the working group for the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) Environmental Environmental Divisions Working groups recommendations. As such, we will examine the impact of climate change Committee Committee Internal Each region on our Group’s business, strategies and finance within the company-wide Environmental Divisions and Groups established Cross-divisional specialized task in the Headquarters forces to carry out surveys and Note: “Each region” refers to regions in Japan where the measures regarding energy risk management framework, and these topics will be discussed at the Risk Management Committee and the CSR Environmental Auditor ISO Bureau Headquarters, Komaki, conservation and hazardous Miyanojo and Ise plants, and substances management and Sustainability Committee attended by the entire board of directors. We will also promote voluntary and proactive Group companies are located disclosure of information in accordance with the recommendations. Environmental Action Plan Major item Minor item Targets for FY2020 Results for FY2019 Development of Environmentally Friendly Products Target: Reduce per-unit CO2 emissions by 13.0% relative to FY2015 Reduce per-unit CO2 emissions by 15% relative to FY2015* Result: Reduced per-unit CO2 emissions by 12.8% relative to FY2015 Global Production * We revised the target upwardly on April 1, 2018. We continued to conduct cross-departmental activities under the leadership of the We design, develop and provide environmentally friendly products so as to reduce the environmental impact of products on a life warming energy conservation working group. cycle basis. Specifically, when developing new products and changing specifications, we ensure that no substance of concern Logistics Increase efficiency for logistics Carried out company-wide activities to increase logistics operations efficiency. Reduce defective products to reduce waste will be included and energyand resource-saving design standards are met, and take appropriate measures as necessary. Waste Decreased waste by reducing defective products in each process. Depletion of Design products in consideration of waste reduction Such efforts have been pursued over the years to offer a broad lineup of environmentally friendly products. To promote resources Water Use water more efficiently Increased water usage efficiency by improving operational conditions of facilities using water. and expand the lineup, we have started new initiatives, including: setting out to create our own environmentally friendly product Raw materials Design products in consideration of the saving of raw materials Promoted reduction of raw materials input by redesigning products and processes. certification system; setting new targets up to FY2030 for spark plugs and automotive oxygen sensors that contribute to higher ・Implemented measures to enhance the environment-friendly product lineup by developing Environmentally — Build an environment-friendly product certification system and expand next-generation products and improving the efficiency of existing products. fuel efficiency and cleaner exhaust gas, our foremost environmentally friendly products and target items selected in association friendly products the lineup of such products ・Started to develop a company-wide environment-friendly product certification system. with our Priority Issues; and establishing the goal of facilitating adoption of our proprietary lead-free piezoelectric ceramics to — Ensure compliance with ELV, RoHS, REACH and other regulations Promoted cross-departmental information sharing and measures to meet regulations under replace conventional lead-based equivalents that are commonly used in many consumer appliances and are thus giving rise to Hazardous the leadership of the chemical substances management working group. concerns over the material’s adverse effects on the environment and human health. chemical — Foster the replacement of substances of concern with substitutes Replaced phthalic acid, which will be prohibited by RoHS from 2019, with a substitute. substances Continued the replacement of air conditioners in which fluorocarbon R22 was used — Totally discontinue the use of HCFCs as a refrigerant. NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 57 58 Business Infrastructure Morimura Group Stories for Value Creation Growth Strategies to Support Sustainable Growth Business Strategy Response to Climate Change and Environmental Management Environmental burdens from business activities (FY2019) Conservation of water resources Scope covered*1 Scope covered*1 Total water used in FY2019 declined 4.0% year on year to 1.48 million m3, mainly owing to changes in production. NGK SPARK Group Group NGK SPARK Group Group We will continue to review our operations to promote the efficient use of water. INPUT companies companies OUTPUT companies companies PLUG in Japan*2 overseas*3 PLUG in Japan*2 overseas*3 Water usage (10,000 m3) 200 Wastewater Raw materials Ceramic and metal materials 167 Africa North America Ceramic and metal materials purchased Released into sewerage systems and public 162 163 154 ◯ ◯ ◯ waters (consumption volume of tap water ◯ ◯ ◯ 150 28 38 148 0.5% 4.8% and well water) 38 Output into water 53,000tons 4 5 36 34 Regional 1,480,000㎥ 100 4 5 4 Asia composition South America 58.6% of usage 35.8% Electricity Chemical substances (PRTR) 130 124 outside Japan Suppliers 50 120 113 110 Used in offices and plants Released into waters and ◯ ◯ ◯ notification given by sites ◯ ◯ Europe 454,180MWh 0 0.3% 1.7tons 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (Fiscal year) Group companies in Japan (with integrated certification) ■国内グループ （統合認証） ■ 国内グループ （統合認証外） ■ 海外グループ Group companies in Japan (without integrated certification) Group companies outside Japan City gas Used in offices and plants Greenhouse gas emissions ◯ ◯ ◯ Energy-based and non-energy-based Reduction of Waste greenhouse gas emissions ◯ ◯ ◯ 11.34million m 3 310,000tons-CO₂ Output into air Research, The total amount of waste generated in FY2019 increased 2.0% year on year to 21,874 tons, mainly due to an increase in waste LPG Design, from manufacturing processes related to preparation for expanded production of some products. Used in offices and plants and for testing, Energy Manufacturing, We will continue to improve our operational processes, in an effort to reduce waste and promote recycling. travel and transportation ◯ ◯ ◯ Chemical substances (PRTR) Sales Released into air and notification given 7,253tons by sites ◯ ◯ Waste output 21,451 21,874 86tons (tons) 20,522 19,966 20,000 Other fuels 17,552 8,662 9,276 Africa Used in offices and plants and for testing, 7,829 15,000 8,240 1.0% North America travel and transportation ◯ ◯ ◯ Waste generated 6,134 (and treated on commission) Regional 22.5% 8,234kL (crude oil equivalent) 595 700 773 667 681 Asia composition Total 21,874tons 10,000 27.1% of outputs 11,993 12,122 11,917 outside Japan Renewable energy Effectively used 5,000 10,823 10,953 Europe Waste Generated by solar power generators and small hydroelectric generators ◯ ◯ ◯ Products (including waste sold) ◯ ◯ ◯ 11.2% South America 280MWh 19,212tons 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (Fiscal year) 38.2% Group companies in Japan (with integrated certification) ■国内グループ （統合認証） ■ 国内グループ （統合認証外） ■ 海外グループ Group companies in Japan (without integrated certification) Group companies outside Japan Tap water, well water, Not effectively used Water river water Tap water, groundwater and river water used ◯ ◯ ◯ 2,662tons Hazardous Chemical Substances Management 1,480,000㎥ CO2 emitted by external To ensure compliance with Hazardous Chemical substances regulations, which are becoming increasingly strict in recent years, Chemical substances transporters Logistics Logistics we have introduced a hazard ranking system. Hazardous Chemical substances are ranked according to the level of regulation and PRTR CO2 emissions due to externally ◯ ◯ toxicity, with handling standards set for each rank. To ensure that our products will contain no substance of concern, suppliers’ Handled and notification given by sites commissioned transportation ◯ ◯ involvement is essential. Thus, we ask our suppliers to avoid restricted chemical substances listed in our green procurement 766tons 2,567tons-CO₂ guidelines. Also, we appropriately respond to inquiries from our customers regarding chemical substances contained in products, with participating in surveys and submitting a declaration of non-use of restricted chemical substances along with relevant data. Fuels used for transportation Product shipment We will reduce the use of such chemicals by replacing them with alternative substances while reinforcing management of Logistics (outsourced) Used for transportation by trucks, ships and ◯ ◯ materials used in products in order to ensure legal compliance and meet the requirements of customers. aircraft Customers 965kL (crude oil equivalent) Customers Biodiversity conservation *1The covered scope of each amount reported in INPUT and OUTPUT is indicated with ○. *2 Group companies in Japan: (subject to integrated certification) NITTOKU ALFA SERVICE CO., LTD., CERAMIC SENSOR CO., LTD., NTK CERAMIC CO., LTD., CERAMIC SENSOR NAKATSUGAWA CO., LTD., NANSEI CERAMIC CO., LTD., KAMIOKA CERAMIC CO., LTD., Spark Tec WKS CO., LTD., NICHIWA KIKI CO., LTD., Spark Tech TONO CO., LTD.; (not subject to integrated certification) NITTOKU Recognizing the conservation of biodiversity as a critical global challenge, NGK SPARK PLUG Group identifies it as a material DENSHI CO., LTD., NTK CERATEC CO., LTD. environmental issue for us to address, along with global warming mitigation and resources recycling. Based on this view, we *3 Group companies overseas: (manufacturing & sales organization) NGK SPARK PLUG (SHANGHAI) CO., LTD., CHANGSHU NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD., NTK TECHNICAL CERAMICS KOREA CO., LTD., NGK SPARK PLUGS (THAILAND) CO., LTD., SIAM NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD., NGK SPARK PLUGS (ASIA) CO., LTD., NGK SPARK PLUGS MALAYSIA BERHAD, PT NGK BUSI INDONESIA, NGK established the NGK SPARK PLUG Group Biodiversity Action Guidelines in April 2013. Using the guidelines as a guide, we are SPARK PLUGS (INDIA) PVT. LTD., NGK SPARK PLUGS (U.S.A.), INC., Wells Vehicle Electronics, L.P., CERAMICA E VELAS DE IGNICAO NGK DO BRASIL LTDA., NGK SPARK PLUGS (FRANCE) S.A.S., working to remain aware of the fact that our activities, particularly involving energy and resource usage, are inevitably causing NGK SPARK PLUGS SA (PTY) LTD; (sales organization) TAIWAN NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD., NGK SPARK PLUGS (VIETNAM) CO., LTD., NGK SPARK PLUGS (PHILIPPINES), INC., NGK SPARK PLUG (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD., NTK TECHNOLOGIES, INC., NGK SPARK PLUGS CANADA LIMITED, BUJIAS NGK DE MEXICO S.A. DE C.V., NGK SPARK PLUG EUROPE GmbH, NGK SPARK PLUGS (UK) impacts on biodiversity, and are taking appropriate measures to reduce such impacts throughout our business operations, in LTD., LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY NGK SPARK PLUGS (EURASIA), NGK SPARK PLUG MIDDLE EAST FZE. cooperation with business partners and external groups. NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 59 60 Business Infrastructure Morimura Group Stories for Value Creation Growth Strategies to Support Sustainable Growth Business Strategy Human Resources Development for Sustainable Growth Human Resource Policy Promoting empowerment of women Since 2013, as our first step toward diversity promotion, we the growth of the participating female employees. We acknowledge that employees are the most important management resources. In light of this, we respect the have been putting effort in creating working environment We have also held lectures and training seminars for diversity and individuality of our employees and promote the cultivation of physically and mentally healthy human beings, across the company where women can truly thrive and play all managers so that they can deepen their understanding striving to promote the further development of our group as a whole. active roles. We are trying to change the mindset of both of diversity management. Moreover, across NGK SPARK Action Guidelines managers and female employees themselves, regarding the PLUG and Group companies in Japan, the departmental empowerment of women as a driver for the reform of our heads led the formulation of action plans appropriate for •We secure and foster human resources who help pass down our “Quality Product” and “Participation by all” principles to the following corporate culture. their own departments and the departments that excelled in generations. To this end, we provide learning opportunities and other programs to support the career development of all employees. • We strive to nurture a corporate culture that ensures that people with different qualities can fully realize their own capabilities within our group. For example, we implemented a training program to implementing the plans received incentive awards. The action help female employees develop their careers with higher plans target measures for diversity in general, not limited to motivation. In the program, these employees were paired those for the empowerment of women. We are also working with managers able to advise them as they sought to meet to expand our systems to provide workplaces where female the challenge of fulfilling certain tasks with a higher level of employees can work with greater comfort. Continuous education and training activities difficulty than their routine assignments, thereby supporting In addition, as a positive action, we are providing special education to female employees who aim to become Based on the Four Shared Values of the Nittoku Way (Shisei-Shinjitsu, Dokuritsu-Jiei, Shikai-Keitei and Soshi-Kantetsu) and on External commendation for the empowerment of women managers, including mentoring by executives. the “Quality Product” and “Participation by all” principles, we conduct education and training activities in a planned manner to •Granted Kurumin certification (for FY2020) Going forward, we will implement more measures to continuously develop employees who can boldly deal with challenging internal and external changes as well as those with high •Selected to be a Nadeshiko Brand company (for FY2018) increase the percentage of female managers. levels of expertise. •Certified by Aichi Prefecture as an “Aichi Josei Kagayaki Company (Company Supporting Aichi Women’s Career Success) (for FY2018) Proportion of female employees Our education and training activities consist mainly of OJT (on-the-job training), through which employees can acquire •Included in “New Diversity Management Selection 100” by the Ministry of (%) technologies and knowledge through their hands-on work. We also offer OFF-JT (off-the-job training), providing employees Economy, Trade and Industry (for FY2017) 20 with new technologies, knowledge and skills outside their respective workplaces. We have a wide range of OFF-JT programs •Granted Eruboshi two-star certification based on the Act on Women’s Participation and Advancement in the Workplace (for FY2016) 15.4 that include training by organizational level and role to provide necessary knowledge and skills, product quality education, 15 14.2 14.2 14.7 14.8 •Granted the 2015 Japan Productivity Center Incentive Award Empowerment environment and safety & health education, manufacturing education, education in global business, and career development Grand Prix for Activities by Women support. In FY 2019, a total of 8,192 employees received OFF-JT. •Received the 2014 Excellence Award, Nagoya City Accreditation and 10 Commendation System for Companies that Promoted Increased Roles for Women Lifelong 5 Level-specific education Professional education education 2.87 2.77 2.94 2.49 2.28 Selective training 0.84 1.05 1.24 1.53 1.83 0 for managerial 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 FY candidates Acquisition of legal knowledge for business Generalists Section Chiefs Managers Environment and safety & health education Training in product knowledge by division Correspondence education and e-learning Managers Happy Life Seminar TOEIC Institutional Program Test Intellectual property education CSR and sustainability education Manufacturing education Quality and TPM education Providing workplaces where employees can continue to exert their abilities Business skills training Compliance education Global education Level-specific Education on corporate The growth of employees leads to the sustainable growth of employees who are aged 60 and above, also known as the education philosophy the company. Based on this recognition, we are working to “platinum generation,” to ensure that employees who wish to (The Nittoku Way) provide employees with workplaces where they can choose remain in the workforce after reaching the retirement age can General the right career for themselves, enhance their expertise and continue to use their skills. employees skills, and continue to make a meaningful contribution. In the Platinum Project, we hold various seminars and For example, we launched the Platinum Project targeting provide information through an e-zine. Education for new employees Establishment of a career consultation helpline Through this contact, employees who have a national qualification for career consulting respond to calls for advice about career vision, work motivation, life events, Mandatory As designated by the dept./selected by employees themselves As designated selectively by the dept. As selected by employees themselves etc. The career consultants do not provide solutions but instead help the questioners find answers for themselves. Promoting the use of “My Career” Employee satisfaction survey As a tool to help employees to look back on their past, set their future vision and commit themselves to achieving the vision, we use “My Career.” Employees biannually input information about their career to date and their future aspirations into “My Career,” which their managers then refer to in interviewing them to support their career In order to grasp the Group’s situation and challenges and make improvements, we have been conducting an employee development. satisfaction survey targeting employees of NGK SPARK PLUG and Group companies in Japan. Diversification of the work styles of the platinum generation For the FY2019 survey, the response rate reached 90.9% and the satisfaction rate 54.1%. Each departmental head is working Some employees in the platinum generation are eager to work but do not have confidence in their physical stamina. In response, at some of our plants we have begun on improvement based on the understanding of the department’s situation and challenges indicated by the survey results. to exempt such employees from the night shift upon request, with other employees working at night instead. NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 61 62 Business Infrastructure Morimura Group Stories for Value Creation Growth Strategies to Support Sustainable Growth Business Strategy Human Resources Development for Sustainable Growth Putting focus on the employment of new graduates with foreign nationality Development and management of managerial human resources We are promoting the employment of foreign nationals in our effort to adapt to the rapid progress of globalization in the area As we expanded our business globally, in 2016, we started a program to find and develop the next generation of global of human resources. For new graduates, we have been employing at least three foreign nationals every year, recently with a managerial human resources, targeting all Group companies. special focus on the employment of foreign nationals who have studied the Japanese language at overseas universities and This program is intended to facilitate the employment and promotion of candidates regardless of nationality and to want to work in Japan, in addition to those who have studied in Japan. We are also fostering the mid-career employment of provide them with opportunities and environments that allow them to demonstrate their abilities. It was named the “HAGI foreign nationals and employed a foreign national to head the Global Innovation Div., which we newly established in FY2020. Program” after Hagi City in Yamaguchi Prefecture, where the Shoka Sonjuku school developed diverse human resources With these non-Japanese employees, including both engineers and office personnel, demonstrating their abilities at our at the end of the Edo period. Chairman Shinichi Odo serves as the head of the program. Under the program, seminars workplaces, we can increase our diversity awareness across the company. have been held on a continuous basis to provide employees with opportunities to learn together with a focus on gaining a big picture view encompassing the entire company. We are thereby developing leaders with the will and sense of mission required to take the NGK SPARK PLUG Group into the future. Targeting human resources in Japan, we run Nittoku Business School classes for employees who are almost qualified Work style reforms to participate in the HAGI Program. For these classes we have prepared a curriculum that helps participants develop logical Our work style reforms used to be operational reforms, and in FY2019 we began making examinations for “genuine work thinking and acquire knowledge and skills regarding management strategies, marketing and presentations. It also includes style reforms.” At present we define “genuine work style reforms” as those that lead to higher productivity of individuals, for case studies based on actual examples and is intended to help participants to develop the spirit, techniques and physical which we deem it necessary to enhance three elements: willingness to work (motivation and comfortable workplaces); ability stamina required of leaders. (knowledge and experience); and methodology (management by objectives and by time). Also, we think it is necessary to Employees who have completed the HAGI Program and the Nittoku Business School curriculum have already been review the entire human resources system, including the organization, evaluation and management, and, accordingly, we are making contributions in core positions within the Group. implementing extensive measures not limited to those to provide employees with more work style options. We have also established a selective human resources development program for each of North America, Europe, Asia As for telecommuting, the necessity of which has been reaffirmed amid COVID-19 crisis, we have already introduced a and other regions and implement the program four times a year for the local development of business leaders. work from home system and satellite offices, and are further improving the environment for telecommuting while reviewing Moreover, in order to visualize the personal histories and skills of employees who are candidates to become business our past work methods, aiming to make our workplaces even more adaptive to changes in society and the environment. leaders, we have collected information about NGK SPARK PLUG’s managers and executives of overseas Group companies for input into our human resource databank, which is used in discussions by the Human Resources Committee. This committee is composed of the members of the management team and has been meeting monthly since FY2018. At the meeting the members discuss personnel affairs regarding core positions and work to place the right person in the right job for total optimization. Efforts to maintain and improve employees’ health NGK SPARK PLUG regards the health of employees as one of its important managerial resources for sustainable corporate growth and is fostering the health of individual employees for “health and Development of managers productivity management.” In December 2017, we made a declaration on health and productivity management as the entire NGK SPARK PLUG Group and are implementing preventive and other For the development of managers, we provide them with opportunities to review their past management approaches and measures against lifestyle-related diseases, mental disorders and passive smoking to proactively observe the situation of their respective workplaces in an objective manner. support the health of employees. Implementation of a 360-degree survey Prevention of lifestyle-related diseases We implemented a 360-degree survey targeting departmental managers and those in higher positions in FY2018, and we will expand the survey target to include To help employees maintain and promote their health, we task industrial physicians, medical doctors and sectional managers and those in higher positions in FY2020. nurses with following up with employees who have been found to have problems as a result of undergoing In the survey, we examine leadership qualities of the respondents, including progressiveness, intelligence and sense of responsibility, as well as negative health checkups. Such employees are also referred to appropriate medical institutions as needed. Moreover, attributes that might hinder them from demonstrating their leadership, such as being avoidant. The survey results reveal the gaps between what the surveyed we provide employees with a smartphone app, which is linked with the internal health management system, individuals think about themselves and what others think about them. We give feedback to the respondents to help them become aware of the importance of and employees are using the various functions of the app to promote their health. “observing” themselves. Enhancing mental healthcare Use of an indicator to visualize workplace engagement We carry out stress checks on employees to prevent them from suffering mental disorders due to stress. Based on the results, we analyze the influence work Along with the “one-on-one meeting,” which we introduced on a trial basis in FY2019 to foster dialogue between managers and their subordinates for the development environments have on employees in our effort to provide them with safe and comfortable workplaces. of workers able to work autonomously, we have also introduced a quantitative indicator as a tool to visualize workplace engagement. This engagement indicator numerically shows the level of employees’ eagerness to contribute to their organizations and jobs, and is designed for use by line managers to check the management level of their workplaces. Prevention of passive smoking NGK SPARK PLUG has declared that it will totally ban smoking on the premises of all its sites in and after April 2023. Toward this goal we have been gradually limiting smoking hours as well as giving support to those who want to quit smoking, such as by referring them to smoking cessation clinics. NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 63 64 Business Infrastructure Morimura Group Stories for Value Creation Growth Strategies to Support Sustainable Growth Business Strategy Respect for Human Rights Proper procurement Human Rights Policy Procurement Policy Based on the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at We aim to realize globally optimal procurement based on our quality products principle. To this end, we focus on Work, the UN Global Compact, and the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, we understand the need strengthening cooperation with suppliers and promoting our CSR efforts throughout our supply chain system, while at to respect the human rights of all people who are affected by our business activities and will make our best effort to the same time striving to carry out proper purchasing transactions when procuring materials and parts, based on the protect the dignity of these people. following guidelines. Action Guidelines Action Guidelines • We do not discriminate against people or infringe upon their human rights based on race, ethnicity, religion, nationality, place of birth, • We conduct rational transactions based on fair, transparent, and open competition. social status, belief, age, disabilities, physical features, gender, sexual orientation and others. • We comply with procurement-related laws and regulations and foster responsible procurement. We select suppliers based on • We do not use child labor or forced labor. comprehensive assessment of product quality, technology, prices, deliveries, CSR initiatives, and efforts to continuously make • We do not engage in harassment including sexual harassment and power abuse. improvements. • We identify the negative impact that we could have on human rights through our business activities and try to prevent or reduce such • Aiming to procure more eco-friendly products, we strive to promote our green supplier system. impact. • We enhance mutual trust with our suppliers, who are good partners for us, and strive to realize mutual development. • In the event of direct or indirect violation of human rights, we protect the victims through appropriate investigations and responses. • We promote education and enlightenment so that this policy is understood and implemented throughout our business activities. Promoting responsible procurement NGK SPARK PLUG Group is fostering the responsible procurement of materials and others, giving due consideration to Efforts to protect human rights human rights and the environment across its supply chain. In 2012 we issued the Compliance Guidebook to set out our guidelines on respecting human rights and prohibition Promoting CSR-oriented procurement environmentally hazardous substances. of harassment and have since been distributing copies to employees and others to educate them about compliance. To foster CSR measures across the supply chain, we issued our CSR Subsequently, in 2016, we signed the UN Global Compact and since then we have been creating more opportunities to Measures against conflict minerals Procurement Guidelines and have been distributing copies to suppliers, asking provide education and information on human rights to our employees to raise their awareness. We have recently included There are concerns that some mineral resources mined in the Democratic them to comply with the rules set in the Guidelines for the following seven LGBT-related issues in the items covered in our human rights-related training and are also monitoring the occurrence of Republic of the Congo and surrounding countries provide a source of funding areas: human rights and labor; occupational health and safety; environment; racial problems around the world. to local armed forces, thereby promoting conflicts and infringements of human fair trading and ethics; product quality and safety; information security; and Harassment at the workplace can include harassment related to pregnancy, childbirth, childcare leave and long-term rights. This issue of conflict minerals is recognized as a serious social issue in contribution to society. relation to the procurement of resources and materials. care leave, bullying, and mobbing, as well as sexual harassment including that directed against people of the same gender Ensuring green procurement Accordingly, we annually conduct surveys on the use of conflict minerals and in relation to sexual orientation or identity. We have set measures to prevent these types of harassment and the rules to In order to reduce our environmental impact throughout the supply chain, we targeting the upstream section of our supply chain and avoid the use of any be followed by all employees and others and are working for prevention based on labor-management cooperation. issued the Green Procurement Guidelines to request that suppliers build with related risks. We offer consultation services to people facing harassment through the contact point jointly established by labor and environmental management systems and ensure the strict management of management at each of our plants and via the Corporate Ethics Helpline. We also conduct a compliance survey in order to grasp the situation at our workplaces. The details of consultations held and the issues reported through the contacts are promptly examined and the facts checked by the Anti-Harassment Committee, which then takes corrective action and gives instructions as needed. Activities to support suppliers Moreover, to ensure respect for human rights across our supply chain, we ask suppliers to prohibit child labor, forced labor, harassment and discrimination and to make appropriate responses to conflict minerals through our CSR Procurement By conducting activities to help suppliers enhance their business foundation and engaging in follow-up activities after our Guidelines. regular evaluation of them, we make joint efforts for improvement with suppliers, thereby building greater trust. Corporate Ethics Helpline P.87 1 Activities to help suppliers enhance their business foundation (through classroom seminars and practical seminars held on-site) Participation in the United Nations Global Compact NGK SPARK PLUG Group participated in the UN Global Compact in November 2016. For suppliers, we organize classroom seminars on themes such as process improvement, QC, occupational health & safety and the environment and also hold The Global Compact sets out the voluntary action principles to be followed by companies. This initiative was proposed by Kofi practical seminars at their own manufacturing facilities to foster improvements. We have been conducting these activities to help suppliers develop their workers Annan, the then secretary-general of the United Nations, in 1999 to address various issues facing the world, such as global in order to build a more robust business foundation. In FY2019 we held a total of 34 such seminars. We are thus implementing our “Quality Product” policy and warming, environmental problems and disparities in society. It was officially launched at the UN Headquarters in July 2000. In improving our manufacturing abilities in cooperation with suppliers. order to contribute to creating a sustainable society, the Group will conduct a range of activities as a good corporate citizen, supporting the Global Compact’s 10 principles set in the four areas of “human rights,” “labor,” “environment” and “anti2 Follow-up activities conducted after the regular evaluation of suppliers corruption.” We annually conduct evaluation on some suppliers and inform them of the results. For suppliers that require follow-up activities, we visit them to provide targeted advice and inspect their sites in order to work with them in thinking about how to rectify any weak points. NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 65 66 Business Infrastructure Morimura Group Stories for Value Creation Growth Strategies to Support Sustainable Growth Business Strategy Relationship with Stakeholders Corporate Governance Interview with Outside Directors Communication with stakeholders To deepen mutual understanding, we are fostering dialogue with our stakeholders through various opportunities. Stakeholder Communication Major activities in FY2019 Frequency & no. of participants per year Organization of the ordinary general meeting of shareholders Jun. Dialogue with institutional investors and securities analysts 336 times Organization of briefings on our technologies for institutional Not held Shareholders We disclose information in compliance with the law investors and securities analysts and and also disclose information promptly via the media Organization of briefings on the company for personal investors Three times (900 people in total) investors and at our website. Publication of the newsletters for shareholders Once Publication of an annual integrated report Aug. Provision of information via the website From time to time Outside Directors Outside Directors Outside Directors Outside Directors Morihiko Otaki Kanemaru Yasui Mackenzie Donald Clugston Miwako Doi Communication through sales activities From time to time We offer information meaningful to customers at our Provision of information via the website (on products, events, etc.) From time to time website and through exhibitions so that they can Customers We will cocreate innovations by leveraging purchase and use our products and services with Explanation about products and technologies at exhibitions From time to time peace of mind. Communication at venues of events, such as racing events From time to time workers with diverse backgrounds and driving We are working to build relationships of trust with Communication through daily procurement activities From time to time suppliers as their sound partner and achieve growth Suppliers together. To this end we conduct activities across the Organization of briefings on the corporate principles May supply chain, such as holding briefing sessions on our Organization of seminars on practical issues 34 seminars company-wide efforts to meet new challenges corporate policies. Communication through social meetings and events From time to time Participation in local events such as festivals From time to time Local cleanup activity From time to time at each plant (931 people in total) Hosting environment-related plant tours From time to time at each plant (867 people in total) We respect the local culture and customs at each Q. How is the diversity of the Board of Directors? of our bases located across the world and work Social meetings on the environment From time to time at each plant (302 people in total) Local for smooth communication with local communities. Communication through cultural and sport events communities We also participate in various social contribution Otaki I have experience as a member of senior needs of the global market differ significantly between activities to help create a comfortable society as a · 2020 NGK SPARK PLUG Suzuka 2&4 Race Cancelled due to COVID-19 corporate citizen. management at Japanese and foreign companies, and Mr. developed countries and emerging markets. I will continue · NGK SPARK PLUG FC Gifu football class for children Jun. Yasui is an accountant. We also welcomed Mr. Clugston to supporting the company’s technological strength and actively · Musical for families held in the NTK Hall Dec. the board last fiscal year, which made me feel that the present a perspective different from that of the Japanese · Marathon Festival Nagoya Aichi Mar. diversity of the board got a tremendous boost. NGK SPARK directors. PLUG earns about 80% of its sales overseas and foreign Provision of information via the website (environmental information, etc.) From time to time shareholders account for nearly 30%. To leverage our Doi Meetings of the Board of Directors have an atmosphere Communication through daily operations and at workplaces From time to time strengths accumulated in the course of expanding our global that promotes the free and easy exchange of frank opinions. I Eight times in a printed form market presence in the automotive components business for visited the company’s plants and, as a tech person myself, Publication of an in-house magazine and from time to time on the website To maintain safe and sound workplaces and help developing new businesses, we need a broad global was fascinated by this very rare company that has been employees work with vigor, the management Organization of various labor-management meetings From time to time Employees perspective. In this sense, because of Mr. Clugston’s career delivering a variety of components and operating business— team proactively visits work sites to have Utilization of the corporate ethics helpline (for employees) 80 calls received as a diplomat, his view of the market from the standpoint of a both of which are centered around its core ceramics dialogues with on-site employees. Organization of various training sessions A total of 8,192 participants citizen, and his values and way of thinking that differ from technologies—globally for more than 80 years. I think the Employee satisfaction survey All employees in Nov. those of Japanese people, he can consistently provide us company has great future possibilities. I’m looking forward to with fresh and valuable input. discussing with you at meetings how we can capitalize on the strengths of existing businesses to create innovation. Yasui Ms. Doi, who has a background as a researcher, joined the board this fiscal year, improving the balance in Inclusion in SRI Indexes diversity even further. If the technical knowledge and experience of the four of us were mapped on a skill matrix, it NGK SPARK PLUG Group is included in the following socially responsible investment (SRI) indexes: would demonstrate that NGK SPARK PLUG is one of only a few companies that has a board composed of diverse individuals with different expertise. Clugston Inside and outside directors are well-balanced in number. I have been an outside director of NGK SPARK (As of July 31, 2020) PLUG for the past one and a half years, expressing my *The inclusion of NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. in any MSCI index, and the use of MSCI logos, trademarks, service marks or index names herein, does not constitute a sponsorship, endorsement opinions mainly in the area of strategy development. The or promotion of NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. by MSCI or any of its affiliates. The MSCI indexes are the exclusive property of MSCI. MSCI and the MSCI index names and logos are trademarks or service marks of MSCI or its affiliates. NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 67 68 Business Infrastructure Morimura Group Stories for Value Creation Growth Strategies to Support Sustainable Growth Business Strategy Corporate Governance Interview with Outside Directors Q. What is your view on the 2030 Long-term Management Plan NITTOKU BX? Q. How do you evaluate NGK SPARK PLUG’s ESG efforts? like a blockbuster* drug. As our company is to make inroads environmental issues is generally high. But one suggestion I into new business domains, it may not always be the case want to make is that there should be a movement that, say, that we can keep winning like a Yokozuna (top-ranking sumo encourages employees to be more actively involved in wrestler). We may have to barely “hang in there” and survive nonprofits and other social contribution activities outside the with eight wins and seven losses. But we must continue on company. The company has a somewhat inward-focused our challenging journey to produce a hit. What we must aim culture, so we could, for instance, encourage employees to at is to build on small successes through trial and error and take a volunteering holiday and actively participate in activities translate them into a big business over the medium and long outside the company to hone their perspective. term. To nurture a culture that encourages employees to engage in generating innovation, we also need to advance Doi From the viewpoint of accelerating ESG efforts and the diversity of our workforce as well as promote a shift in the pursuing a more outward-focused culture, I suggest that the mindset of existing personnel. company publicize its unique emissions cleaning technologies *blockbuster : A new drug with epoch-making medicinal properties, which has overwhelming more actively. Such active publicity campaigns may include sales compared to other products released in the corresponding disease area. emphasizing how strongly the company is committed to Yasui While the strengthening of existing businesses and Clugston The company is leveraging its technological and social and environmental responsibility by showing on its the creation of new businesses were set as objectives in the Clugston I agree. The company has specified four development capabilities to contribute to solving social website a car or cars equipped with its oxygen sensors in a previous NITTOKU SHINKARON long-term management plan business areas on which it plans to focus. But under the issues. One such example is the development of spark plugs, country with severe emissions problems. By making what ended in March 2020, the current NITTOKU BX plan clearly current situation where we don’t know what will be a oxygen sensors and other products in compliance with NGK SPARK PLUG does and how it contributes to society sets out numerical targets for the sales portfolio and success, the company needs structural changes that will environmental regulations, which leads to cleaner emissions widely known, we can not only boost the company’s public investment in new and growth businesses. It is significant that support bottom-up initiatives to take on wide-ranging and higher fuel efficiency of automobiles. These efforts are profile but also motivate young employees with a strong “Will” the company has made it transparent how much it is going to challenges. To develop such a structure it is important, as worthy of esteem. With regard to governance, increased to help solve social issues through their work. invest in what and what results can be expected. To achieve stated in the NITTOKU BX, to adopt a rewards and evaluation diversity among outside directors, the plan to transfer the these targets, the new plan aims at “establishing strong system appropriate for the business environment. We should authorities and responsibilities of the global headquarters Yasui As the Sustainability Promotion Department was business infrastructures” as did the NITTOKU SHINKARON, offer incentives to attract and actively hire talented (GHQ) to the regional headquarters (RHQ) overseas and other established this fiscal year, I expect that the company’s but this time the plan entails “clarification of responsibilities researchers and other human resources from both Japan and initiatives demonstrate that the company has a culture open initiatives will cover ESG issues more comprehensively and and authority” and even a shift to an internal company abroad. Making the stance of “high rewards, high to diverse ideas and debate and that its challenge function is involve more employees, producing more specific results. As system. The plan is so bold that I asked management, “Do performance” a part of the corporate culture will also lead to working. I feel that the company’s governance system is quite regards the reinforcement of governance, how we can you really need to go this far?” I felt the strong determination the first step in the process of changing the organization for advanced compared with other Japanese companies. monitor each internal company after the internal company of management to achieve Dokuritsu-Jiei (take actions by the better. system is introduced will become a new issue that needs to oneself), a shared value manifested by The Nittoku Way, for Otaki NGK SPARK PLUG’s level of consciousness about be addressed. each internal company and change the business portfolio in Doi To broaden the perspective in the expansion of the which internal combustion engine business currently existing, highly profitable internal combustion engine represents 80% of total sales. business, it may be effective for the company to send personnel to emerging market countries with strong potential for demand growth so that they can feel out opportunities for Q. What is your expectation for the NGK SPARK PLUG of the future? Please also tell us what new businesses there. Emerging markets, such as India, Brazil and African nations, differ greatly from each other in you, as an outside director, aspire to do? terms of lifestyles, growth models and needs. Drawing a future picture of NGK SPARK PLUG in various countries will Otaki First and foremost, I want to see at least one new we can allow the company to take risks and when the give employees and the company a new perspective on business come to fruition as soon as possible. It doesn’t have company should stop a project and return it back to the marketing, with which we can explore the needs of not just to be a huge success. Size isn’t everything. More important starting point in case it goes awry. If a new business does not B-to-B customers but also end consumers in post COVID-19 than size is impact on society and meaningfulness. I want the turn profitable, we don’t call it a failure as long as the world and translate these needs to new businesses, and will company to establish such a business. I want to make the company can exit from the business in a predefined manner. I thus be great asset to employees and the company alike. most of the experience gained from my former jobs to assist want to assist the company in the development of the kind of the company, particularly in its efforts to foster a culture of system that allows young employees to make many attempts willingness to meet new challenges. without fearing failure. Otaki All the rest is depending on how much each Clugston Japanese people tend to fear failure. But there is Yasui From that point of view just mentioned, one of the employee can share the determination to achieve “change no success without failure. We directors will also actively main roles we are expected to play is to monitor the progress beyond recognition” themselves. The key is how they can express our opinions without fearing failure to serve as a of the company’s management plans and, if there is any break away from the mindset of an “ever-victorious” company challenge function to vitalize debate. factor that inhibits the plans, pose a question—from an with overwhelmingly dominant sources of revenue, namely objective standpoint as a third party—as to whether the spark plugs and sensors. The pharmaceutical industry, where Doi It is also important to set an “exit” plan when taking company is taking any measure to eliminate such factor. This I was working before, is said to have a high-risk high-return risks and trying to expand into new business domains. As is an important role, and I want to fulfill it and contribute to structure where drug development may result in failure to outside directors, we need to closely and objectively watch the transformation of the company. achieve expected results, no matter how much money and the company’s R&D projects and determine to what extent time are invested, or may turn out to lead to a big hit product NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 69 70 Business Infrastructure Morimura Group Stories for Value Creation Growth Strategies to Support Sustainable Growth Business Strategy Corporate Governance Management System Directors (as of June 24, 2020) Representative Director Chairman of the Representative Director President Member of the Board (Outside Director) Member of the Board (Outside Director) Board Chief Operating Officer Morihiko Otaki Kanemaru Yasui Shinichi Odo Takeshi Kawai April 1977: Joined our company April 1987: Joined our company August 1996: President & CEO, JOHNSON & JOHNSON K.K. VISION CARE COMPANY March 1981: Registered as a Certified Public Accountant February 2003: General Manager of Overseas Aftermarket Sales & Marketing Dept., February 2011: General Manager of Sensor Engineering Dept. II, Sensor Div., Automotive August 2011: Vice Chairman of the Board, PASONA INC. April 1999: Representative Partner, Central Audit Corporation Sales and Marketing Div., Automotive Components Gr. Components Gr. June 2013: Member of the Board (Outside Director), NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. August 2007: Representative Partner, AZSA & Co. (currently KPMG AZSA LLC.) July 2005: President, NGK SPARK PLUGS (U.S.A.), INC. April 2012: Corporate Officer (up to today) June 2008: Managing Partner, Director of Nagoya Branch, AZSA & Co. June 2007: Member of the Board, April 2015: Managing Officer June 2016: Director, Henry Schein Japan K.K. (up to today) (currently KPMG AZSA LLC.) June 2010: Member of the Board (Managing Director) June 2015: Member of the Board, Managing Officer August 2016: Vice Chairman, PASONA INC. June 2013: Retired from KPMG AZSA LLC. June 2011: President April 2016: Member of the Board, Senior Managing Officer June 2018: Outside Director, GIGA PRIZE CO., LTD. (up to today) July 2013: Director, Yasui Certified Public Accountant Office (up to today) April 2012: President & CEO April 2019: President & Chief Operating Officer (up to today) June 2020: Outside Director, FP Corporation (up to today)* June 2014: Outside Director, NICHIHA Corporation Member of the Board (Outside April 2016:: Representative Director & Chairman of the Board Director), NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. (up to today) * Assumed the position on June 25, 2020 President & Chief Executive Officer April 2019: Representative Director Chairman of the Board (up to today) Representative Director Member of the Board Executive Member of the Board Executive Officer, Vice President, Member of the Board (Outside Director) Corporate Strategy Assistant of President Global innovation Div. Gr. General Manager, Tokyo Branch Office Mackenzie Donald Toru Matsui Mikihiko Kato Clugston April 1984: Joined our company April 1985: Joined our company June 1982: Joined Department of Foreign Affairs and International Trade of the June 2016: Outside Director, KAMEDA SEIKA CO., LTD. (up to today) April 2011: President of NGK SPARK PLUG EUROPE GmbH February 2012: General Manager, Corporate Planning Dept., Canadian Government September 2016: Professor, Kwansei Gakuin University (up to today) October 2013: General Manager of OEM Sales & Marketing Dept., Sales and Marketing Div., August 2012: President of CERAMICA E VELAS DE IGNICAO NGK DO BRASIL LTDA. August 2000: Canadian Consul General in Osaka June 2017: Outside Director, Idemitsu Kosan Co., Ltd. (up to today) Automotive Components Gr. October 2015: General Manager, Corporate Planning Dept., August 2003: Minister, Embassy of Canada in Japan March 2018: Outside Director, Sapporo Holdings Limited (up to today) December 2014: President of NGK SPARK PLUG (SHANGHAI) CO., LTD. April 2016: Corporate Officer August 2009: Ambassador of Canada to Indonesia, Timor-Leste and the ASEAN June 2019: Member of the Board (Outside Director), NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. April 2015: Corporate Officer, June 2017: Member of the Board, Corporate Officer November 2012: Ambassador of Canada to Japan (up to today) July 2016: President of NGK SPARK PLUG (SHANGHAI) TRADING CO., LTD. April 2019: Member of the Board Executive Officer (up to today) April 2018: Managing Officer, June 2018: Member of the Board, Managing Officer April 2019: Member of the Board Executive Vice President April 2020: Representative Director Member of the Board Executive Vice President (up to today) Member of the Board ExecutiveOfficer Member of the Board Executive Officer Corporate R&D Gr. Corporate Administration Gr. Secretarial Office Member of the Board (Outside Director) Medical Div. Plant Manager of Nagoya President of NGK SPARK PLUGS (U.S.A.) HOLDING, INC. Miwako Doi Takio Kojima Kenji Isobe April 1984: Joined our company April 1986: Joined our company April 1979: Joined Tokyo Shibaura Electric Co., Ltd. (currently Toshiba Corporation) February 2011: General Manager, of Next Generation Product Project, Product Planning July 2011: General Manager, of Accounting & Finance Dept., July 2005: Senior Fellow, Corporate Research & Development Center, Toshiba Center, Engineering R&D Gr. April 2013: General Manager, of Corporate Planning Dept. and Public Relations Corporation April 2012: General Manager, of Next Generation Product Project, New Business Office, July 2008: Chief Fellow, Corporate Research & Development Center, Toshiba Advancement Gr. December 2015: General Manager, of Accounting & Finance Dept., Corporate AdministraCorporation October 2013: Deputy General Manager of R&D Center, tion Group. and General Manager, of Public Relations Office April 2014: Auditor, National Institute of Information and Communications Technology, April 2014: Corporate Officer April 2016: Corporate Officer an Incorporated Administrative Agency (currently, a National Research April 2018: Managing Officer June 2018: Member of the Board, of Corporate Officer, and Development Agency) (up to today) June 2018: Member of the Board Managing Officer April 2019: Member of the Board Executive Officer (up to today) June 2015: Outside Director, Nomura Research Institute, Ltd. April 2019: Member of the Board Executive Officer (up to today) April 2017: Executive Director, Nara Institute of Science and Technology (up to today) June 2019: Outside Director, Isetan Mitsukoshi Holdings Ltd. (up to today) April 2020: Vice President, Tohoku University (up to today) June 2020: Outside Director, Subaru Co., Ltd. (up to today) June 2020: Member of the Board (Outside Director), NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Member of the Board Executive Officer (up to today) Business Planning Management Div. Technology Evaluation Office Manager Hiroyuki Maeda April 1986: Joined our company February 2012: General Manager of Planning Control Dept., Sensor Div., Automotive Components Group. April 2012: General Manager of Sensor Engineering Dept. II, Sensor Div., Automotive Components Group., April 2013: General Manager of Procurement Dept., Procurement Div. April 2014: Deputy General Manager of Procurement Div., General Manager of Supplier Relations & Development Office, General Manager of Procurement Dept. April 2016: Corporate Officer April 2019: Executive Officer June 2019: Member of the Board Executive Officer (up to today) NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 71 72 Business Infrastructure Morimura Group Stories for Value Creation Growth Strategies to Support Sustainable Growth Business Strategy Corporate Governance Audit & Supervisory Board Members (As of June 24, 2020) Executive/Corporate Officers (As of June 24, 2020) Executive Officer Executive Officer Executive Officer Audit & Supervisory Board, Standing Audit & Supervisory Board Member, Standing Noboru Ishida Masaki Sumiya Hiroyuki Tanabe Yasuhiko Hotta Yoshihiro Matsubara Corporate Quality Control Div. Procurement Div. Product Technology Div. Fuel Cell Business Facility Engineering Div. President of CECYLLS CO., LTD. April 1980: Joined our company April 1983: Joined our company Plant Manager of Komaki February 2008: General Manager, Accounting & Finance Dept. February 2012: General Manager, Production Engineering Dept., Spark Plug Div., November 2008: General Manager, Semiconductor Components Div., Communication Automotive Components Gr. Media Components Gr. April 2012: General Manager, Spark Plug Production Engineering Dept, Production June 2009: General Manager, Planning Dept., Communication Media Engineering Center, Production Engineering Gr. February 2014: General Manager, Equipment Dept., Production Engineering Center, Executive Officer Executive Officer Executive Officer Components Gr. February 2011: General Manager, Information Systems Dept. July 2011: Senior General Manager April 2014: Production Engineering Gr. Corporate Officer Hiroyasu Ogura Akiyoshi Kato Koji Suzuki April 2016: Senior General Manager, Working Styles Reforming Office, Corporate April 2019: Corporate Adviser, Standing SCM Div. Spark Plug Div. Automotive Components Sales & Marketing Div. Strategy Gr. June 2019: Audit & Supervisory Board Member, Standing (up to today) June 2017: Audit & Supervisory Board Member, Standing (up to today) Regional President ASEAN, India Plant Manager of Miyanojo Aftermarket Div. President of NGK SPARK PLUGS (ASIA) CO., LTD. Executive Officer Executive Officer Executive Officer Yoshiyuki Takayanagi Osamu Shinkai Kazunobu Hasegawa Medical Div. Industrial Ceramics Div. Regional President China Semiconductor Production Equipment Div. President of NGK SPARK PLUG President of NTK CERATEC CO., LTD. (SHANGHAI) TRADING CO., LTD. Audit & Supervisory Board Member Audit & Supervisory Board Member Plant Manager of Ise President of NGK SPARK PLUG (SHANGHAI) CO., LTD. Fumiko Nagatomi Akihiko Minato Executive Officer April 1981: Registered as an attorney April 1976: Joined The Mitsubishi Bank, Ltd. Keiji Suzuki April 1989: Opened Nagatomi Law Firm (up to today) June 2003: Executive Officer, The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi, Ltd. Sensor Div. May 2006: Outside Auditor, UCS CO., LTD. May 2007: Managing Executive Officer, The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd. June 2016: Audit & Supervisory Board Member (Outside Corporate Auditor), Chubu (currently MUFG Bank, Ltd.) Global Innovation Div. Electric Power Co., Inc. (up to today) June 2009: Managing Director, MARUNOUCHI YOROZU Co., Ltd. Outside Audit & June 2017: Audit & Supervisory Board Member, NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Supervisory Board Member, The Nanto Bank, Ltd. (up to today) June 2010: Representative Director and Vice President, Mitsubishi UFJ Research and Consulting Co., Ltd. Corporate Officer Corporate Officer Corporate Officer June 2012: Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member, Mitsubishi Materials Corporation September 2016: Chairman, MST Insurance Service Co., Ltd. Michael Alan Schwab Damien Germès Takeshi Mitsuoka June 2018: Audit & Supervisory Board Member, NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Regional President PAMA Regional President EMEA Global Innovation Div. (up to today) President of NGK SPARK PLUGS (U.S.A.), INC. President of NGK SPARK PLUG EUROPE GmbH Corporate Officer Corporate Officer Corporate Officer Masakazu Ota Kazuyoshi Terashita Shigeki Mori Cutting Tools Div. Global Group Governance Headquarters Product Technology Div. Corporate Officer Corporate Officer Corporate Officer Tsunejiro Tajima Shingo Arimi Tomohiro Yamaguchi Semiconductor Production Facility Engineering Div. Corporate Strategy Gr. Equipment Div. General Manager, Strategic HR & Corporate President of NTK Planning Dept. Technologies, INC. Executive Officers and Corporate Officers who are not directors NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 73 74 Business Infrastructure Morimura Group Stories for Value Creation Growth Strategies to Support Sustainable Growth Business Strategy Corporate Governance Corporate Governance System Corporate Governance System Chart (as of June 24, 2020) 1 Board of Directors General meeting of shareholders 3 Nomination Committee The Board of Directors is composed of 11 directors, Appointment/ Appointment/ Advisory body of the Board of Directors. Majority dismissal dismissal four of whom are outside directors. The Board meets of its members are independent outside directors regularly once a month and as required for deliberation so as to ensure transparency and rationality for the and determination of issues as prescribed in applicable 3 1 2 nomination of director candidates. Consulted by the laws and regulations or articles of incorporation as Nomination Committee Board of Directors Audit & Supervisory Board of Directors, this committee deliberates on the well as other key managerial issues. The Board also Advising/reporting Audit Board appointment of directors and corporate auditors that Appointment/ supervises business execution, receiving reports from dismissal will be proposed at the general meeting of shareholders directors. Multiple independent as well as on the evaluation of corporate performance outside directors have been invited to join to the Appointment/ and the results-based evaluation of the management Board to enhance its supervisory function and ensure Advising/ dismissal/supervision team. The deliberation results are reported to the Board management transparency. reporting of Directors. 4 Mutual cooperation Remuneration Committee Business execution Accounting 5 audit Deliberation Independent auditor 4 Remuneration Committee Corporate Management President and CEO Committee To ensure reasonableness and transparency with regard to 2 Audit & Supervisory Board Instruction Mutual cooperation director nomination, a Remuneration Committee, in which a 6 Reporting majority of the members are independent outside directors, Corporate Officers’ Mutual cooperation The Audit & Supervisory Board is composed of four Corporate Officers was established as advisory bodies to the Board of Directors. Meeting corporate auditors, two of whom are outside Based on the Board of Directors’ request for opinion, auditors. The Board audits the directors’ business the Remuneration Committee deliberates on matters, execution as an independent organization on the including proposals on the appointment of directors and behalf of shareholders. Full-time auditors carry out Deliberation Instruction Internal Auditing Office Audit & Supervisory Board members to be submitted to the audits based on their business experience in the General Meeting of Shareholders, the Company’s company and outside auditors from a neutral and performance evaluations and, based on such evaluations, Instruction professional viewpoint, thereby ensuring sound evaluation of the management’s performance, and then Audit business management. delivers its opinions to the Board of Directors. CSR and Sustainability Internal Outside Committee Risk Management 5 Corporate Management Committee Committee Business Operating Section/Group Companies Compliance Composed of the representative directors, other Committee, etc. directors and some of the executive officers, this committee discusses the important issues to be reported to the Board of Directors. It also meets to discuss and grasp in advance business challenges to be addressed and any possible risk that involves the Members of the Nomination and Remuneration Committees Basic information As of June 24, 2020 company, thereby building a system to make prompt responses to changes in the business environment. Directors FY2020 Auditors FY2020 Company with an Audit & Organizational design Nomination Remuneration Nomination Remuneration Supervisory Board Name Name Committee Committee Committee Committee No. of directors 11 Shinichi Odo 〇 〇 Yasuhiko Hotta 6 Corporate Officers’ Meeting Takeshi Kawai 〇 〇 Yoshihiro Matsubara No. of outside directors among 4 total no. of directors Toru Matsui 〇 〇 Fumiko Nagatomi 〇 〇 We adopt the corporate officer system to foster Mikihiko Kato Akihiko Minato 〇 〇 Term of directors 1year business execution based on the policies set by the Takio Kojima Board of Directors and clarify responsibility for the Kenji Isobe No. of corporate auditors 4 execution results. Corporate officers are selected by Hiroyuki Maeda Outside auditors among total no. the Board and meet monthly to report on their business 2 Morihiko Otaki 〇 〇 of auditors execution and to share information and exchange Kanemaru Yasui 〇 〇 Independent auditor KPMG AZSA LLC opinions in a cross-sectional way. Mackenzie Donald Clugston 〇 〇 Miwako Doi 〇 〇 NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 75 76 Business Infrastructure Morimura Group Stories for Value Creation Growth Strategies to Support Sustainable Growth Business Strategy Corporate Governance Roles and Structure of the Board of Directors Basic Philosophy The Board of Directors plays the following roles to help foster discussions from multifaceted viewpoints and In line with the corporate philosophy expressed in the slogan, “With established trust and confidence inside and outside the company achieve sustainable growth and increase its ensure the transparency and objectivity of its decisionthe company, we aim to contribute to the peoples of the world by creating and putting at their disposal new values for the corporate value on a mediumto long-term basis, thereby making. For the sustainable growth of the company future,” we are enhancing the corporate governance system that we built to foster business management that will increase increasing its profitability, capital efficiency and others: and mediumto long-term increase of its corporate our corporate value on a mediumto long-term basis. Our basic philosophy on corporate governance is to promote fair and value, we regard it as important that the Board be highly transparent management for our stakeholders, including shareholders, customers, suppliers, employees and local •Deliberates and makes decisions on the basic comprised of a diverse group of individuals with communities, and build relationships of trust with them, and to operate and further improve our management and internal management policies, mediumto long-term different backgrounds (expertise, experience, etc.) and control systems to achieve sustainable growth through efficient and sound management. management strategies and other important managerial choose the members in a balanced manner from those issues who have abundant experience, tremendous insight •Builds and improves the environment to help the and a high degree of professionalism in consideration of 2020 Chronological table of measures taken for corporate governance management team take risks appropriately the current business environment, while also ensuring •Increased the number of outside directors to •Supervises the management team in a highly effective diversity in terms of gender, international caliber and four manner from an independent and objective standpoint other attributes. We select members regardless of 2016 •Increased the race, ethnicity, nationality, country of origin and cultural number of The Board of Directors is composed of 11 directors, background. 2014 outside and includes four independent outside directors to •Increased the directors to number of outside three directors to two 2012 Evaluation of the Effectiveness of the Board of Directors •Decreased the upper limit of the number of The company conducted an evaluation on the effectiveness of the Board of Directors. An overview of this evaluation directors from 25 to 13 for FY2019 is as follows. •Introduced the corporate officer 2010 system •Founded the CSR 1 Method of evaluation Committee Evaluation was conducted by the Board of Directors based on a survey of directors and Audit & Supervisory Board members. 2005 2 Overview of evaluation results •Changed the term of 2017 service of a director •Established the It was judged that the effectiveness of the Board of Directors of the company is sufficiently ensured for the following reasons: from two years to one Nomination and 1) The Board of Directors consists of appropriate members who collectively have sufficient knowledge, abilities, experience and year Remuneration diversity to fulfill their roles and responsibilities. Committees 2) It has been confirmed that the management team is working to steadily increase the corporate value by making appropriate •Introduced the performance-linked responses to sustainability-related issues including social and environmental problems. stock remuneration 3) The Board of Directors has set the basic policies regarding the internal control system for the entire Group and appropriately system supervises the establishment and management of the system. 4) The Board of Directors conducts appropriateness examinations on an individual basis for the stocks owned by the company for reasons other than pure investment purposes, considering the capital cost and comparing the risks and returns of holding the 2013 2019 stocks over the medium and long term. •Appointed an •Partially revised the outside director performance-linked stock remuneration system •Introduced the Employee As for the issues pointed out in the FY2018 effectiveness evaluation, the following facts have been confirmed in the 2011 Corporate Officer System evaluation made for FY2019: both qualitative and quantitative improvements were made regarding the reference •Established the CSR •Eliminated and consolidated materials utilized by the Board of Directors; and the renewal of the activities and management system of the Policy the hierarchy of executive CSR Committee, which is in charge of promoting risk management, has begun with a view to raising the level of officers sophistication of the risk management system. 2008 2015 •Issued the Corporate Governance In the FY2019 survey, the following issues were pointed out as issues to be addressed to enhance the •Established the Internal Auditing Report effectiveness of the Board of Directors: need to advance the deliberations on business management and strategies Office •Formulated the criteria for the and enhance training for executives. We will implement measures for the issues to maintain and further increase the •Abolished the retirement appointment of independent allowance system for officers Board’s effectiveness. officers •Began assessing the effectiveness of the Board of Directors NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 77 78 Business Infrastructure Morimura Group Stories for Value Creation Growth Strategies to Support Sustainable Growth Business Strategy Corporate Governance Roles and Independence of Outside Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members Remuneration for Officers Outside directors play supervisory roles in positions independent from business operations, including expressing their Basic policy Basic policy on the payment of performance-linked stock opinions by taking a broad view at important meetings, such as Board of Directors meetings. Outside Audit & Supervisory Remuneration for officers is paid based on the policy of remuneration Board members fulfill auditing functions by drawing on their expertise to carry out audits from multifaceted viewpoints and providing them with additional motivation to contribute At the 117th general meeting of shareholders held on June 29, express their opinions at important meetings, such as Board of Directors meetings. to improving the company’s business performance on a 2017, targeting its directors and corporate officers (excluding We appoint independent outside directors and Audit & Supervisory Board members in line with our own selection mediumto long-term basis and growing the corporate value, outside directors and corporate officers who maintain criteria as well as the criteria set by the securities exchanges to ensure that candidates for independent positions have while ensuring they have a shared interest with shareholders employment agreements with the company; here in after called no special relationships with the management team or major shareholders and that they have no conflicts of interest with by holding company shares themselves. The remuneration “directors, etc.”), NGK SPARK PLUG made a resolution to general shareholders. consists of fixed remuneration paid in the form of cash; introduce a performance-linked stock remuneration system as bonus, which is linked with the company’s single-year a system that is closely linked with the corporate performance Appointment reasons for outside directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members business performance, etc.; and performance-linked stock and is highly transparent and objective, with a view to further NGK SPARK PLUG deems it essential that the Board of Directors be composed of individuals with different backgrounds remuneration paid in accordance with each person’s position improving its mediumto long-term business performance and (knowledge, expertise, etc.) for the company to achieve sustainable corporate growth and increase the corporate value on a and level of achievement against the performance targets set increasing its corporate value. The system is to be implemented mediumto long-term basis. We also attribute importance to having multiple outside directors on the Board who can provide in the medium-term management plan and others. For Audit & for four fiscal years from FY2017 to FY2020. external viewpoints, thereby enhancing the Board’s supervisory function and ensuring the transparency of its decision-making. Supervisory Board members and outside directors, only fixed In line with the Board Incentive Plan (BIP) adopted under Title Name Reason for appointment Frequency of attendance remuneration is paid. the system, points are given to directors, etc.according to Our Remuneration Committee acts as an advisory their position and level of achievement against the targets set Outside Morihiko He has a wealth of experience in global companies and expertise as an executive and is Attended all 12 Board of Directors meetings body to the Board of Directors. It deliberates the policies, in the medium-term management plan, etc. After the end of director Otaki expected to supervise management in an appropriate manner. held during FY2019 procedures, details of the remuneration system and the the period set for the system, shares of the company and Outside Kanemaru He is expected to make recommendations to management by using his expertise and Attended all 12 Board of Directors meetings appropriateness of the amount of remuneration planned to money in the amount equivalent to the value of the shares will director Yasui experience gained over the course of his long career as a certified public accountant. held during FY2019 be paid to each director, and submits the results to the Board be given to directors, etc. according to the points granted to of Directors to ensure the rationality and transparency of the them. The indicators for the level of achievement made against Mackenzie As a diplomat, he has a great deal of global experience and expertise in international After assuming his post on June 25, 2019, Outside Donald affairs and trade and is expected to supervise the execution of business by the attended 8 of 10 Board of Directors meetings decisions made concerning the remuneration of directors. In the targets are set based on the single-year and medium-term director Clugston management team and provide them with advice. held during FY2019 FY2019, the committee met once. performance targets. She has an abundance of experience and an outstanding record as a researcher in the The single-year performance targets are consolidated net Outside Miwako field of information and communication and has been engaging in advanced research Policy on the payment of bonus sales and consolidated operating income, which reflect the both in academia and in the private sector. — director Doi She is expected to supervise the execution of business by the management team and As for bonuses, in addition to the base amount set results of sales activities. For FY2019, the numerical targets provide advice to it, particularly regarding products and business strategies. for each position, an amount to be decided as follows set for these were 471.6 billion yen and 64.2 billion yen, Audit & Fumiko She is expected to use the expertise and knowledge that she has accumulated during her Attended 11 of 12 Board of Directors is paid to each person: decided comprehensively respectively, and the actual results were 426.2 billion yen and supervisory board member Nagatomi long career as an attorney for the company. meetings held during FY2019 in consideration of the quantitative targets set for 46.4 billion yen, respectively. corporate performance such as consolidated net sales The medium-term performance targets are consolidated Audit & Akihiko He has served in important posts at financial institutions and is expected to use his After assuming his post on June 25, 2018, and operating income ratio, which reflect the results of net sales, consolidated operating income and ROIC set in supervisory abundant expertise and knowledge regarding finance and corporate management for the attended all 12 Board of Directors meetings board member Minato benefit of the company. held during FY2019 sales activities, and based on the qualitative evaluation the medium-term management plan. ROIC indicates whether of the individual performance of the person. the company has made profit efficiently or not through capital For FY2019, the numerical targets set for investment. For FY2020, which is the final year of the mediumconsolidated net sales and operating income ratio were term management plan, we set the following as targets for Succession Plan 471.6 billion yen and 13.6%, and the actual results were consolidated net sales, consolidated operating income and 426.2 billion yen and 10.9%. ROIC: 520 billion yen, 100 billion yen and 13.0% or more. NGK SPARK PLUG’s Board of Directors engages in the formulation and implementation of the succession plan, which includes programs such as that to develop global managerial human resources (“HAGI Program”), such as future Total amount of remuneration, etc. paid to officers, total payment amount by remuneration type, CEOs and other business leaders. The members of the Board see to it that sufficient time and resources are committed to and the number of recipients (for FY2019) develop their successors in a planned manner. Total amount of remuneration Total payment amount by remuneration type (millions of yen) Number of recipients Category Performance-linked remuneration paid (millions of yen) Fixed remuneration (persons) Bonus Stock remuneration Specific involvement by the Board of Directors Directors (excluding outside directors) 476 334 90 52 8 Audit & Supervisory Board Members Representative directors as well as outside directors proactively participate in the development of managerial human (excluding outside members) 50 50 ー ー 3 resources, including serving as lecturers for the HAGI Program. Outside directors 42 42 ー ー 4 Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members 28 28 ー ー 2 *1:The following limits are set on the remuneration paid to directors according to the resolution made at the 117th general meeting of shareholders held on June 29, 2017. Details of human resource development for CEO candidates Total amount of remuneration (excluding bonus): 60 million yen or below per month Total amount of bonus: 180 million yen or below per year We are implementing the HAGI Program and a training program in which all directors and corporate officers participate. According to the resolution made at the 117th general meeting of shareholders, a performance-linked stock remuneration system is to be implemented for four fiscal years from FY2017 to FY2020, targeting the company’s directors and corporate officers, with the upper limit on the total payment amount set at 1,000 million yen. These programs are designed to develop future CEO candidates in a planned and strategic manner by devoting adequate *2: The following limits are set on remuneration paid to Audit & Supervisory Board members: Total amount of remuneration (excluding bonus): 10 million yen or below per month time and resources to the task. Total amount of bonuses: 10 million yen or below per year *3:The data shown in the table include those for one outside director who passed away (and is deemed to have resigned) on May 2, 2019 and one director and one Audit & Supervisory Board member who resigned at the end of the 119th general meeting of shareholders held on June 25, 2019. *4: For the bonus and stock remuneration shown in the table, they were recorded as expenses for FY2019. NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 79 80 Business Infrastructure Morimura Group Stories for Value Creation Growth Strategies to Support Sustainable Growth Business Strategy Corporate Governance Risk Management Audit & Supervisory Board Members and Measures to Strengthen Their Functions Risk Management Policy The Audit & Supervisory Board is composed of four members, two of whom are outside members to ensure that timely and appropriate opinions are expressed by the Board from external as well as internal viewpoints. None of the outside members We adapt from a global viewpoint to changes in the management environment surrounding our group and to have interests in NGK SPARK PLUG, such as conducting transactions with the company, or belong to any organizations that the diversification of risks and will foster risk management to reduce or avoid the loss of managerial resources, have interests in it. thereby improving our corporate value. Furthermore, one staff member is appointed to support the operations of the Audit & Supervisory Board in accordance Action Guidelines with its members’ request, and this staff member engages in internal communication, investigation and other supporting • We identify the risks that might hamper the achievement of our management targets from a global and long-term viewpoint and strive operations. In addition, the Internal Auditing Office and the accounting auditor conduct investigations and make reports in to prevent the actualization of these risks in a planned and organization-based manner. response to requests from Audit & Supervisory Board members, and the respective organizations strive to enhance the • In the event that such a risk materializes, we strive to minimize the impact on our stakeholders, maintain their trust and prevent the quality of audits and work together. recurrence of similar incidents. Internal Control Promotion system NGK SPARK PLUG formulated its basic policy on internal control and has been implementing it for the sustainable For risk management, we have appointed the President as “Chief Administrator” and the Director in charge of the Risk Management growth of the company and mediumto long-term increase of its corporate value, while ensuring the appropriateness Dept. as “Promotion Manager” and are making efforts to improve our risk management system and its operation. of its business operations. In line with the policy, we will also fulfill our fiduciary responsibilities to shareholders as well Moreover, we have established the Risk Management Committee, which is chaired by the director appointed by the as responsibilities to stakeholders. Chief Administrator. This committee regularly makes improvements on the risk management system and monitors its operation. The effectiveness of the system is also regularly reviewed and reported to the CSR and Sustainability Committee for its confirmation. Stocks Held for Reasons Other than Pure Investment Purposes Process to identify priority risks Policy on the stocks held for reasons other than pure investment purposes In order to identify and limit those risks that could have serious impacts on our business continuity and on the achievement NGK SPARK PLUG holds the stocks of its suppliers and others basically to maintain and enhance stable business of our targets, we follow the risk management process as described below. We will also evaluate the ESG-related risks relationships with them, when the company decides that holding the stocks will help increase its corporate value after including those concerning climate change and human rights. verifying the economic rationality from mediumto long-term viewpoints. The Board of Directors annually checks whether it is rational and useful in terms of enhancing its corporate value to keep the stocks individually for each of the investee companies, in consideration of the capital cost and comparing the related risks and returns on a mediumto long-term Identify risks Risk basis. When the Board decides that the company should not continue to hold any of the stocks, the company will sell them recognition List the related risks for each operational process as appropriate, in consideration of the market trend. Level of impact Analyze the impact of risks, probability of their materialization Criteria for the exercise of voting rights and how measures are taken against them For the exercise of voting rights for the stocks owned by our company, we will decide whether to exercise the rights for each Risk analysis Make analysis based on the evaluation results provided by the Risk item of the agenda, considering whether it will contribute to increasing the corporate value of the investee company and of Management Dept. and other departments in charge of the risks our own company. In particular for the selection of directors, appropriation of retained earnings and other items that have a large impact on shareholder value, we will exercise the voting rights according to the criteria set for the rights. Evaluate and prioritize the risks based on the analysis results Based on the risk analysis results, select the candidates for Probability of risk materialization Risk evaluation priority risks Select particularly significant risks (priority risks) and Enhancement of Group Governance departments in charge of the risks Selection of The Risk Management Committee selects the priority risks and the NGK SPARK PLUG has corporate officers who were locally recruited at its regional headquarters (RHQs) for the Americas, priority risks Countermeasures departments in charge of the risks. EMEA and Asia, in order to ensure that speedy and accurate managerial decisions are made at bases closer to the markets they serve in view of the company’s globally expanding business environment. We have also formed unique governance Plan, implement and monitor priority risk reduction activities Analysis Planning, The departments in charge of the risks plan and conduct risk teams at the RHQs to build an optimal decentralized system on a group-wide basis and enhance corporate governance as implementing and reduction activities and the Risk Management Dept. monitors the the entire Group. monitoring of activities. Priority risks Moreover, we have newly established the Global Group Governance Headquarter as an organization that audits the measures effectiveness of the Group’s governance as an entity that is separate from its business execution. This organization will Evaluate the risk reduction activities to give instructions for formulate and implement measures to carry out audits on the management of Group companies and RHQs and on the core improvement as needed The results of the risk reduction activities are reported to the Risk business operations of each department. It will also formulate and implement measures to enhance internal control across Review Management Committee, which evaluates the level of achievement the Group and will thus play an important role for the enhancement of the Group’s governance. and gives instructions for improvement as needed. NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 81 82 Business Infrastructure Morimura Group Stories for Value Creation Growth Strategies to Support Sustainable Growth Business Strategy Corporate Governance Risk Management Information Security Business Continuity Management (BCM)（Business Continuity Management：BCM） Information Security Policy In preparation against possible earthquakes and other large-scale disasters, we are conducting BCM activities. Specifically, we are making business continuity plans and working on disaster control and reduction in a group-wide basis to minimize We regard all of our own information assets as one of our management resources. Through the proper prodamage in the event of a large-scale disaster and resume production as soon as possible if operation is suspended, thereby tection and effective use of our information assets, we pursue healthy maintenance and development of our helping customers maintain their supply chains. business. We are also implementing measures against infectious diseases. To deal with COVID-19, we expanded our work at Action Guidelines home system and reviewed work shifts in line with the internal guidelines, thereby continuing to operate our business while • We establish rules that clearly define the system and responsibilities for the protection and management of all information assets including preventing infection. We will verify the results to make more preparations against infectious diseases. the information we keep for our customers, the know-how and intellectual properties owned by our group, and personal information. Measures against COVID-19 P.85 • We comply with laws, ordinances, and regulations regarding information security. • We educate all executives and employees who handle information assets about the importance of information security, and about specific Major initiatives related to business continuity plans (BCPs) items to be observed. • We continuously update the information infrastructure for the maintenance and improvement of the confidentiality and stability of all We have made a BCP for each of our departments. Each plan defines the initial response to be made and recovery procedures to be information assets. followed in case of emergency. • We promote measures to prevent accidents in order to address the risks of information security breaches associated with the continuous IT departments Business departments advancement and sophistication of information technology. Should an accident occur, we will strive to minimize the damage and take To ensure our business continuity, we are continuously working to minimize In the BCP made for each department, we set a limit for the recovery time preventive measures against recurrence. the damage that might be caused to our IT systems in the event of a disaster required for our major products. We also formulate action plans for the and speed up the time required for recovery. recovery teams to achieve early recovery. To minimize such damage, we have been gradually transferring our BCP training Promotion system Internet platform and operating environment established for our business We conduct BCP training every December for the purpose of resuming system to a highly robust data center. Also, to shorten the recovery time, we business as soon as possible in the event of a disaster. BCP training is The director in charge of the Information System Dept. serves as the Chief Administrator to ensure information security. We are shifting to cloud backups so that we can recover and restart the systems designed to improve the effectiveness of BCPs by formulating recovery plans also have our Information Security Committee chaired by the Chief Administrator with an eye to increasing the effectiveness by using undamaged backups. for the major businesses, organizing recovery teams and implementing of our information security management and reducing security risks regarding the NGK SPARK PLUG Group’s information We also plan to integrate the IT systems of our domestic Group recovery activities. To prepare for a situation where our internal network is assets through the concerted effort of the management team and on-site workers. We will continue to foster appropriate companies by using an integrated server infrastructure so that all companies unavailable, we conduct training on communicating with the emergency measures by checking how information security activities are conducted across the Group. can take BCP measures on the same level. headquarters using IP wireless equipment and sharing information via the Moreover, we are regularly providing more specific and practical For confidentiality management, we have a working group on confidentiality management that reports to the Risk Internet. education and training so that employees can make better responses in case Management Committee. The working group is tasked with identifying and reducing the risks related to the management of of a disaster. confidential information and protection of personal information. Procurement departments We are fostering BCP measures for key procurement items such as materials Security measures and parts, including purchasing from multiple suppliers. In view of the fact that we need a range of materials and parts to manufacture our products, we have We are continuously implementing measures to deal with the types of information security risks that pose a threat to built up a system to implement BCP measures across the supply chain in companies and other organizations. cooperation with suppliers. Building damage diagnosis training using a drone Group training of emergency personnel In response to the recent increase of damage caused by cyberattacks, we have established a Computer Security Incident Response Team (CSIRT). We are thus working to improve the level and sophistication of our information security with a focus on both preventive and follow-up measures. Major disaster control and disaster reduction activities Implementation of the joint disaster prevention drill Raising employees’ awareness of disaster prevention Confidentiality management In anticipation of a Nankai Trough Megathrust Earthquake, we are In order to enhance the disaster response capabilities of our employees and implementing the Company-wide Disaster Prevention Drill as a joint drill for foster our business continuity, we distribute to employees copies of the The working group on confidentiality management annually inspects the company-wide status of confidentiality management domestic Group companies. The drill includes training for evacuation, booklet titled “NGK Spark Plug Disaster Prevention,” which shows the action based on the confidentiality management rules set by the company. The inspection includes self-inspection by each confirmation of employees’ safety, incipient stage firefighting, and inspection guidelines to be followed in the event of a disaster. department and mutual inspection between departments. The inspection items are reviewed according to the broader of damage caused to facilities and equipment and is designed for early progress of informatization in society for the enhancement of the checking function. recovery in the event of an emergency. Furthermore, in addition to the rules on the in-house handling of confidential information, we have also established rules on the use of confidential information outside the company in order to prevent the leaking of such information, including rules Measures against storm and flood damage on the use of portable computers and cloud services, and we monitor compliance with the rules. Recently, climate change has been causing more extensive storm and flood damage. In response we annually check the hazard maps of the areas where Protection of personal information our sites are located and implement measures as necessary. Training for secondary evacuation Stretcher transport training As exemplified by the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) enforced in Europe, measures to protect personal information have been enhanced globally. In response, the NGK SPARK PLUG Group has set a range of internal rules to appropriately protect, manage and handle the personal information of its customers and employees. NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 83 84 Business Infrastructure Morimura Group Stories for Value Creation Growth Strategies to Support Sustainable Growth Business Strategy Measures against COVID-19 We are implementing measures against COVID-19, which is spreading globally, giving first priority to the safety and Responses to infected employees and those who have had close contact with infected people health of NGK SPARK PLUG Group employees and all those related to the Group. We made a flow chart to clearly show the Major details guidelines to be followed by employees if either •Infected employees are prohibited from commuting to their workplaces until they are Global measures they or members of their household become diagnosed as having become well enough to do so. infected. •Employees who have had close contact with infected people and could potentially be NGK SPARK PLUG Group has bases across the world, and the situation concerning the spread of COVID-19 and related infected themselves should stay at home. restrictions imposed on the public, such as lockdowns, differ by country and region. Accordingly, we give priority to •Those who have had close contact with infected people need to stay at home for 14 days implementing measures in accordance with the local situation speedily and appropriately at each of our bases. The local after their last contact with such people. operational situation and status of infection is reported by each of the bases to the head office, which provides support to them as necessary. Ensuring safety of stakeholders Measures taken in Japan to prevent the spread of infection We have been proactively holding meetings online in consideration of the safety of our stakeholders, including shareholders, investors, customers and suppliers. We also determine whether to cancel or postpone events to which we generally invite In the middle of January 2020, the first case of COVID-19 infection was confirmed in Japan, giving rise to public concern. Then a many people according to COVID-19 situation at each point in time. series of new cases were reported and the Japanese government established its response headquarters on January 29. Almost concurrently, we also launched our anti-novel COVID-19 headquarters, manned by the President, who serves as the head of the HQ, as well as the Executive Officer of the Corporate Strategy Group and the Executive Officer of the Corporate Administration In preparation for a resurgence of the pandemic and new infectious diseases Group. Since then we have implemented a range of measures to control the infection. Work system Business operations, business trips and meetings We were able to take adequate measures against the spread of COVID-19 but some of the guidelines that we had previously Encouraging employees to work from home Prohibiting business trips in principle formulated against new infectious diseases were not practically useful to deal with the pandemic. Also, we encouraged We have expanded our existing work from home system to deal with We initially prohibited employees from visiting the countries and regions employees to work from home to prevent the spread of infection, but our IT environment was insufficient to allow large the spread of COVID-19 by extending it to also include those working where the infection was spreading, but subsequently the infection numbers of employees to adopt remote working, making it necessary that we improve our IT capability. In response, we will shorter hours and those continuing to work after reaching the began to spread also in Japan. We therefore prohibited employees from review the guidelines to prepare for a resurgence of the pandemic as well as for new infectious diseases. retirement age. We are encouraging employees to work from home to making any business trips, including visits between factories, from April the extent that they can continue to perform their duties. to June 2020. Activities as a corporate citizen For the period from April to May 2020, we asked employees Holding meetings and training seminars online in principle engaging in jobs that can be performed at home to work from home in In order to avoid the so-called three Cs (closed spaces, crowded places, We are also working to contribute to society by supporting activities conducted to control COVID-19. principle, and 50% to 60% of the targeted employees did work from and close-contact settings), we encourage employees to hold meetings home. and training seminars online and are using online tools also for Fostering staggered commuting meetings with those outside the company. Providing medical institutions with masks as well as eye shields made by NGK SPARK PLUG We are fostering staggered commuting so that employees can avoid Establishment of satellite offices (decentralization of workplaces) crowds when commuting. From April to May 2020, we used the auditorium and meeting rooms as We donated about 52,000 masks kept in storage by NGK SPARK PLUG to Allowing employees to drive to their workplaces on a temporary satellite offices, thereby preventing employees from working in crowded medical institutions located in the same areas as the Group’s bases. basis workspaces. Moreover, we made eye shields by using our 3D printers and injection In order to prevent the risk of employees becoming infected while Social distancing at the canteen molding machines and donated them to medical institutions in need of such commuting via public transportation, we allowed them to drive to their We increased the number of shifts at the canteen and decreased the workplaces on a temporary basis. number of people working on the same shift. We have also reduced the equipment. number of seats available at the canteen and ensure that employees Health management will not be seated face to face. We also ask employees to refrain from Disinfection, ventilation and mask-wearing talking when they are eating at the canteen. Joining the IP Open Access Declaration against COVID-19 We encourage employees to wash their hands and use disinfectants NGK SPARK PLUG has joined this declaration, deciding not to assert any frequently and increase ventilation. We also strongly recommend that We give first priority to employees’ safety and health in of its intellectual property rights (patent, utility model, design and copyright) they wear masks. implementing infection control measures. We fostered Daily health screening at workplaces telecommuting also from the viewpoint of work style reforms for a limited time period without any consideration or compensation for acts At all our workplaces, we check whether there are employees who have and implemented special measures for employees who aimed at ending the spread of COVID-19, including the diagnosis, symptoms of cold or are suspected of infection and whether there are needed to commute to their workplaces, such as promoting prevention, containment and treatment of the infection. staggered commuting and working at satellite offices. any signs of the spread of infection at the workplaces. We will continue to implement appropriate measures in Measures for employees returning to Japan from overseas Website about the Intellectual Property (IP) Open Access Declaration against COVID-19: consideration of the situation at each point in time. We respond appropriately in line with the government’s policies and https://www.gckyoto.com/covid19 Executive Officer, Corporate Administration Group allow returnees to enter our premises only after we confirm that their health observation results indicate no problems and the occupational Kenji Isobe physician gives permission for their entry. NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 85 86 Business Infrastructure Morimura Group Stories for Value Creation Growth Strategies to Support Sustainable Growth Business Strategy Compliance Compliance Policy Prevention of corruption We are striving to prevent corruption in line with the statement made in our Corporate Code of Conduct: “We shall promote With recognition that our company is a member of society, we enhance corporate ethics and understand the spirit and fair, transparent, free competition and sound trade. We shall also ensure that our relationships and contacts with government meaning of laws, company regulations, international rules, and social norms in order to appropriately meet social demand agencies and political bodies are of a sound and proper nature.” and become a company trusted by the international community. We issued the Compliance Guidebook in 2012, in which we set the rules concerning the prevention of corruption, Action Guidelines including the prohibition of involvement in political contributions or bribery, and made employees aware of these rules. Subsequently, in 2013, we issued the Conduct Guidelines Concerning the Giving and Receiving of Gifts and Entertainment • We not only comply with laws and regulations, but also act in good faith with common sense and responsibility as a member of society. to raise employees’ awareness of the issues and prevent them from becoming involved in misconduct. Further, in 2016, we • We regularly educate and raise the awareness of all our employees to impart a high level of ethics and correct knowledge, with which signed the UN Global Compact, openly reaffirming our commitment to preventing corruption. they can act voluntarily to prevent a violation. We are thus working to prevent corruption in line with the guidelines and others. We respond to any violations of the • Should a violation occur, we will promptly investigate the causes and take remedial actions. We will strive to take appropriate countermeasures to prevent recurrence and fulfill our accountability. anti-corruption rules mainly through the Compliance Committee. Our overseas Group companies are also taking action to prevent corruption, especially to prohibit and prevent bribery of civil servants, including providing employees with related education and conducting surveys on local laws. We also request that suppliers refrain from acts of bribery through our CSR Procurement Guidelines. In FY2019, there were no violations of related laws and regulations across the Group. Promotion system In order to enhance compliance, we established the Compliance Committee chaired by the Representative Director. This committee conducts activities to prevent noncompliance issues. It will also give instructions about the measures to be taken Activities concerning competition laws in the event of a noncompliance incident and monitor the implementation of the measures. Moreover, it provides compliance education and conducts awareness-raising activities targeting both executives and employees while also providing related Taking seriously our violation of the Anti-Monopoly Act of Japan, as uncovered in FY2014, we have established a system to information and raising employees’ compliance awareness through designated compliance facilitators at each department. promote compliance with competition laws and to ensure legal compliance both within and outside the country. In Japan, we formulated the Anti-Monopoly Act Compliance Manual and distributed copies to employees while holding a Compliance promotion system range of related seminars internally for both executives and employees. Moreover, we have introduced an in-house e-mail Board of Directors Committee activities inspection system to monitor and prevent recurring violations of the competition law. Consultation and reporting CSR and Sustainability Committee Disciplinary Committee Internal Auditing Office Our overseas Group companies are required to report the activity status regarding compliance with competition laws to Recommendation Audit NGK SPARK PLUG on a regular basis. In addition, the company’s teams in charge of affairs concerning competition laws and Compliance Committee compliance visit the Group companies, where they audit the companies’ compliance systems and implementation status and Corporate Ethics Helpline Reporting Chairperson of Compliance Chairperson of Expert Committee check whether local employees are sufficiently aware of the related rules. Seminars featuring guest speakers are also held. (Inside and outside the company) Committee Cooperation We will continue our education and auditing activities to ensure compliance with competition laws both in Japan Reporting Reporting Consultation Consultation Anti-Harassment Committee Plant liaison staff and division in Educational tools Compliance and abroad. Education and training and reporting and reporting (Personnel and Labor Relations and labor union) charge of laws and regulations check Awareness survey Consultation Consultation Suppliers Implementation of compliance NGK SPARK PLUG Group companies Export control In order to ensure compliance under the multilateral export control regime (MECR) established for international peace and Corporate Ethics Helpline safety, we have established related internal rules and an in-house export control organization. We also conduct awarenessraising and inspection activities targeting departments engaged in export control, thereby ensuring and enhancing our export We have established the Corporate Ethics Helpline as an internal reporting system available to employees and suppliers seeking consultation control in compliance with the related laws and regulations. and making reports regarding compliance. We have worked to improve user convenience by establishing channels not only inside the company but also via an external expert service provider and enabling employees and suppliers to seek consultation and make reports also outside work hours and on holidays. This service can be used anonymously. Regarding consultations and reports received, facts are investigated with discretion so that the reporting employee or supplier is Compliance education and awareness raising neither identified nor feels uncomfortable, and if problems are confirmed, they are dealt with promptly. In FY2019, there were 80 consultations and reports, including those from employees of Group companies and those related to To raise employees’ awareness and knowledge regarding compliance, we are continuing to educate them by using the labor affairs and internal regulations, and we promptly took corrective actions for the identified problems. We are continuously working to make the helpline service widely known by measures such as introducing it in training, putting up Compliance Guidebook, which summarizes the rules concerning companies and society, and the Compliance Newsletter, related posters and distributing carrying cards describing the service. which provides specific examples of compliance issues that could arise in our daily operations, in addition to holding levelspecific and theme-specific training. Anti-Harassment Committee Moreover, in order to check employees’ level of understanding about the corporate rules and systems and to examine the corporate culture and identify compliance risks, we conduct a questionnaire survey on compliance targeting employees Labor and management are cooperating to prevent all kinds of harassment in their effort to protect the human rights of employees. The Anti-Harassment Committee closely examines and verifies reports and consultations received by the harassment consultation desks set and then give feedback to their workplaces to foster improvements. up in each of the factories and provides guidance for correction as necessary. The details of this committee’s activities are reported to the Compliance Committee. Efforts to protect human rights P.65 NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 87 88 FY2019 Automotive Components Group Revenue 348.7 billion yen Operating income 51.7 billion yen Revenue (billions of yen) and operating income ratio (%) Revenue composition J-GAAP IFRS 19.6 5 22.0 17.2 18.2 14.6 14.8 Automotive Components Group 322.9 348.2 356.7 349.1 348.7 318.1 133.2 125.1 137.0 142.6 214.1 141.1 208.0 207.8 141.0 81.8 % 189.7 193.1 211.2 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) ■ Plug business ■ Sensor business Operating income ratio FY2019 Technical Ceramics Group Semiconductor business Revenue 16.5 billion yen Operating income 0.5 billion yen Revenue (billions of yen) and operating income ratio (%) Revenue composition J-GAAP IFRS 23.8 19.4 17.9 17.1 16.5 16.5 Semiconductor 3.3 0.2 business 3.9 % △9.1 △14.4 △24.9 △29.9 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) ■ Sales revenue Operating income ratio FY2019 Technical Ceramics Group Ceramics business Revenue 35.7 billion yen Operating loss 1 billion yen Revenue (billions of yen) and operating income ratio (%) Revenue composition J-GAAP IFRS 9.6 7.4 6.9 32.8 30.0 37.7 40.7 35.5 35.7 Ceramics business Business Strategy 1.9 8.4 % △2.8 △3.4 This section explains the results of each business 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) ■ Sales revenue Operating income ratio in FY2019 and their medium-term prospects. FY2019 Other businesses CONTENTS Revenue 25.1 billion yen Revenue composition 91 Automotive Components Group 2.8 Plug business Other businesses Operating loss billion yen 93 Automotive Components Group 5.9 % Sensor business 95 Technical Ceramics Group 97 Other businesses NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 89 90 Business Infrastructure Morimura Group Stories for Value Creation Growth Strategies to Support Sustainable Growth Business Strategy Plug business Sensor business Technical Ceramics Group Other businesses Overview of FY2019 Weight Weight Weight Although revenue of the plug business was stagnant, particularly in the Chinese market, due to the decelerated growth in the spark plug market in the first half of the term stemming from the US-China trade frictions as well as to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic from the fourth quarter, 01 the revenue increased year on year (disregarding the effects of exchange rates). This is attributable to the favorable sales Normal reach Long reach Long reach Long reach trend in the North American repair market and the expansion Thread diameter of sales seen until the third quarter in the Chinese market. While the global market environment deteriorated, with Downsizing of spark plugs automobile production decreasing by 9.8% year on year, Business we managed to limit the year-on-year decrease in the sales Strategy volume of our spark plugs to 2.3%, a rate outperforming the market average. In China in particular, the sales volume of our spark plugs for the OEM market and repair market rose performance and more demanding specifications. precious-metal plugs that meet increasingly complex by 1.5% and 8.6%, respectively, as a result of the expanded Automotive Components Group Because our customer base includes almost all performance requirements. In response to this demand, we sales network and our efforts to drive our brand penetration. automakers, we are also in an advantageous position to will promote technological development for high-performance Plug business Sales volume of spark plugs by region keep an eye on the latest technological trends and develop technologies that meet the market demand. plugs and make strategic investments to offer high valueadded products, thereby continuing to meet market needs. Global automobile year on year -9.8% A spark plug is a component installed in the production Expanding sales networks (spark plug: -2.3%) combustion chamber of an engine to serve as Spark plugs are consumables and need to be replaced a “lighter” that will electrically Europe China North America regularly. We have production and sales bases in 21 countries Outlook for the future ignite the fuel-air mixture. The component is OEM △5.1％ OEM ＋1.5％ OEM △5.5％ and have built our own sales channels. We provide technical AM △5.2％ AM ＋8.6％ AM ＋2.3％ support locally while meeting the needs of the global repair The spread of COVID-19 has forced automakers around required to demonstrate high thermal * Automobile * Automobile * Automobile market. Our advanced technology and reliability have earned the world to suspend or decrease production, which, conductivity, mechanical strength and production in production in production in Europe: -7.6% China: -16.9% North America: -6.0% us the top share in the world spark plug market. in turn, is having an impact on us as well. As long as insulation resistance in a harsh year on year year on year year on year this production adjustment continues, it will affect the environment, in which it is exposed ASEAN sales of spark plugs for new automobiles significantly. to drastic temperature and pressure changes OEM △1.9％ However, the Chinese market has recovered relatively AM △3.9％ as well as high voltage. Risks and opportunities of the business quickly and—although there is a time lag between the two * Automobile production in the ASEAN region: -12.7% regions in terms of the outbreak of the infection and policy year on year The automobile industry is in the midst of a once-in-a-century practices—the North American and European markets will period of radical transformation, with automakers developing likewise recover sooner or later. electric vehicles (EVs). The impact of EVs on us will be minor Our goal in terms of spark plug production is to Strengths of the business on a fiveto 10-year medium-term basis, but over the longer increase annual production volume by about 20% over the term the proportion of pure internal combustion engine five years up to FY2020, and this goal is expected to be Meeting complex technological needs vehicles (ICEVs) on the road will decrease, and we achieved. As regards our capital investment policy, we will In recent years, the automobile industry has been focusing acknowledge this as an issue that needs to be faced. revise our plan for increasing production output according on achieving higher fuel efficiency and lower environmental Conventional and hybrid ICEVs, however, are expected to the demand recovery trend, as well as also maintain our emissions as well as on downsizing engines, in which to continue selling well from a medium-term perspective, and stance of focusing on high value-added precious-metal spark plugs are installed, to secure sufficient space in the the demand for spark plugs is expanding. In addition, the plugs. engine bay. This trend is amplifying the demand for thinner number of conventional and hybrid ICEVs owned—which Since COVID-19 may become an important factor and longer spark plugs, but advanced technologies and constitute the repair market, for which approximately 75% that accelerates the transformation of the automobile prolonged R&D efforts are required to reduce the thickness of of our spark plugs by units sold are headed—is projected to industry, we will take not just a short-term perspective, their ceramic insulation parts. continue increasing. Amid these trends, we, as the world’s but also a mediumto long-term perspective in collecting Because our business covers the entire process of top-share spark plug manufacturer, are responsible for and analyzing industry information and reflecting the ceramics production right from the development of materials, ensuring a stable supply of our products. As environmental results in our business plans. we can respond meticulously to the market’s need for higher regulations are becoming stricter, demand is rising for NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 91 92 Business Infrastructure Morimura Group Stories for Value Creation Growth Strategies to Support Sustainable Growth Business Strategy Plug business Sensor business Technical Ceramics Group Other businesses Overview of FY2019 Regulatory trends, element technologies and corresponding products 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 Tier3 LEV4 As in the case of spark plugs, the market environment LEV3 (Undecided) deteriorated, with automobile production decreasing Eu6d temp Eu6d Eu7 WLTP/RDE (Undecided) Nevertheless, the sales volume of our exhaust gas oxygen Regulatory trends WLTP/RDE sensors increased in the Chinese, European and ASEAN Regulations by Regulations by China 6b China 6a WLTP/RDE regions and, despite the year-on-year decline in sales volume Regulations by 02 of 6.8% in North America, increased by 2.5% overall ProductIndia BS6 Expansion of operating range = Higher heat resistance Spread of HEVs wise, the sales volume of Wide-range oxygen sensor showed Quick activation Enhancement of regulations Enhancement of regulations in China Gasoline Forced induction gasoline Spread of (Review of postprocessing process) significant growth in Europe and, particularly, China, where the 48V systems (Need for GPFs) Imbalance detection Spread of PHEVs Higher fuel efficiency introduction of the China 6 emission standards is accelerating NOx reduction Complex postprocessing due to Enhancement of regulations the shift from oxygen sensors to Wide-range oxygen sensor. Diesel (Improved EGR) enhanced regulations (Review of postprocessing process) The demand for oxygen sensors for motorcycles also expanded Trends of technological Business requirements for vehicles due to the adoption of BS6 emission norms in India. Driven by Strategy ZFAS-U3 CTAS-T1.1 CTAS-T2 Improvement of ZFAS-U3 Next-type strong demand and growth in our market share stemming from (wide-range oxygen sensor)（temperature sensor） （temperature sensor） (wide-range oxygen sensor) (wide-range oxygen sensor) Development of sensors tightened environmental regulations, these Wide-range oxygen by NGK SPARK PLUG sensor and oxygen sensors for motorcycles, as well as NOx ZFAS-S3 Improvement of ZFAS-S3 Next-type Next-type sensors, sold well, with their sales volume outperforming that of (oxygen sensor) (oxygen sensor) (NOx sensor) (oxygen sensor) Automotive Components Group FY2018. This resulted in increased Sales revenue year on year Sensor (disregarding the effects of exchange rates). On the other hand, the operating income of the Automotive demand for exhaust gas control sensors. The need for sensors with higher performance that can assure compliance with volume growth rate of sensors, we also view the tightening of exhaust gas regulations around the world as an opportunity that business Components Group decreased for both sensors and plugs owing to the effect of the strong yen and increased depreciation cost. standards is mounting. Such sensors are more technologically will lead to the expansion our businesses for Wide-range oxygen advanced than the current mainstream oxygen sensors and sensor, NOx sensors and oxygen sensors for motorcycles— Sales volume of exhaust gas sensors by region include Wide-range oxygen sensor capable of measuring products for which growing sales volume can be expected. Region FY2019 year-on-year results oxygen concentration in exhaust gas more precisely as well as Exhaust gas regulations are likely to become increasingly To make automobile exhaust gas cleaner, it is North America △6.8％ NOx sensors capable of measuring nitrogen oxide. stringent. We will respond to this movement with our important to monitor various driving technological capabilities. We will actively invest in high valueChina +10.5% conditions, such as oxygen concentration Technological capabilities that can address stringent added products while keeping an eye on evertightening Europe +9.4% and temperature of exhaust gas, and make requirements emissions control standards and contribute to solving ASEAN +0.6% adjustments based on the data collected. We We have a competitive advantage in the technological environmental issues by reducing CO2 emissions. Overall +2.5% develop a wide variety of sensors that take development of ceramics for use as detector elements. Our advantage of certain properties of ceramics oxygen sensors are rated particularly highly among Sales volume of sensors by product in order to contribute to cleaner exhaust gas. automakers for their quick activation after engine start-up, Outlook for the future Product FY2019 year-on-year results which is an important requirement for sensors. We have Oxygen sensor for automobiles △11.1% shortened the time required for our sensors to be activated to Oxygen sensor for motorcycles +32.4% Production adjustments by automakers amid the spread of as little as around five seconds, helping customers meet strict COVID-19 will affect our sales and profits significantly. As in Wide-range oxygen sensor +24.3% exhaust gas emission standards. Our capability to develop the OEM market for plugs, the sales of sensors are also Temperature sensor △16.3% products that provide required performance and put them on expected to pick up when automakers resume production, Knock sensor △2.5% the market in a timely manner is our strength. but we assume that the impact of the infection will linger until NOx sensor +6.8% at least the end of this year. Risks and opportunities of the business To increase our production efficiency, we will expand the capacity of our main production bases in China, India and Strengths of the business Amid the recent trend in which both developed and emerging Thailand, while accelerating the transfer of production overseas. We will also promote the streamlining of production economy countries are tightening their exhaust gas emissions lines, redesign of production layouts and utilization of robots Expansion of demand for exhaust gas sensors control, the demand for higher value-added exhaust gas to reduce manpower and costs. Since the 1990s, when European nations, the United States sensors is expanding among automakers. The stringency level Capitalizing on the trust we have earned based on our and other developed countries started to introduce automobile of environmental regulations in China and India in particular is technological capabilities, we will continue our efforts to exhaust gas regulations, the strict control of exhaust gas becoming increasingly high, boosting the demand for exhaust increase the sales volume and market share of products that emissions has become a global trend, with emerging economies gas sensors, whether for automobiles or motorcycles, in the help customers meet exhaust gas emission requirements, also tightening their regulations in recent years. In the meantime, two countries. While we are well aware that the shift to pure while also accelerating the input of resources into the Global the target of regulations has expanded to include emissions from electric vehicles is posing a risk of diminished demand for internal Innovation Division, a new unit whose mission is to create motorcycles in addition to those from automobiles, boosting combustion engine vehicles and will thereby slow down the sales new businesses. NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 93 94 Business Infrastructure Morimura Group Stories for Value Creation Growth Strategies to Support Sustainable Growth Business Strategy Plug business Sensor business Technical Ceramics Group Other businesses Semiconductor business SPE business about by future brisk demand by committing ourselves to, among other efforts, “enhance quality and stabilize the production system” and “promote development to meet new Overview of FY2019 Overview of FY2019 demand and acquire orders.” Since FY2016, the first year of the seventh medium-term Sales revenue were expected to pick up in or after the second half Cutting tool business management plan, we have been pursuing the policies of of FY2019, but because of the slowdown of the semiconductor spinning off the business as an independent subsidiary, production equipment market we revised downward Sales 03 encouraging external participation in the management of the revenue when the first-half results were published. Sales revenue Overview of FY2019 business, promoting selection and concentration of products, for FY2019 were almost the same as the revised forecast. and reviewing the production bases, with the aim of Although our ceramic products were newly adopted Although sales of products for aircraft increased, they revitalizing the business. One of our goals was to get the for customers’ advanced processes and made a positive were not able to make up for the decrease in sales in the business out of the deficit that had persisted since the financial contribution to overall sales, operating income decreased automobile segment stemming from the downturn of the Business crisis by FY2019. We met this goal as planned by achieving a fullyear on year because sales decreased in other segments and global auto market. This resulted in a year-on-year decline in Strategy year surplus, mainly through the reduction of fixed costs. the product mix turned adverse. Sales revenue. Operating income also fell year on year due to the impact of the strong yen and decreased sales. Strengths of the business Strengths of the business Technical We develop high-quality products by leveraging our superior manufacturing technology and precision and implementing strict Demand is rising for electrostatic chucks and ceramic components for semiconductor production equipment that Strengths of the business Ceramics Group quality control. Our strength lies in our capability to meet the needs for complex 3D structures, cavity structures and singleto meet the requirements of “uniform surface temperature” and “low particle generation.” We are manufacturing electrostatic Our ceramic cutting tools for metal processing have been maintaining a large market share for many years. Our BIDEMICS multi-layered structures; to offer a range of plating options such chucks using the sheet layering technology developed in cutting tool for aircraft engine component processing has been as electrolytic, electroless, gold, silver and copper plating; and to our semiconductor business. This technology can be used adopted by many customers for its high productivity. We develop products that take advantage support small-lot and short lead time orders. We can also make very effectively in the manufacture of semiconductor devices of high heatand corrosion-resistance, tailored proposals, after IC chips are designed, on the structure having narrow wiring pitches. We also have a technology electrical insulation and other properties of and design of ceramic packages based on each customer’s that can effectively remove particles in the final stage of wafer ceramics in order to help enrich both industry application and basic requirements. processing. With these technologies as our competitive and everyday life. We will continue to strengths, we will actively approach semiconductor leverage our long-accumulated material and production equipment manufacturers. process technologies to deliver high valueOutlook for the future added products needed for the coming age. As we have achieved a full-year surplus for the business, we BIDEMICS will shift our focus from measures for “survival” to those for “winning,” which will generate revenues. More specifically, we will promote the sales of ceramic packages for STFs Industrial ceramics business and other products with a high degree of competitive advantage created based on our technological strengths and Overview of FY2019 increase their share in our total sales, with a view to building Electrostatic chucks a business structure that does not rely on semiconductor Sales revenue and operating income decreased year on year. packages for smartphones. We will also focus on technological development for the communications domain, Outlook for the future This was because although sales were robust for oscillators for medical applications, which are one of our piezoelectric including 5G, which is considered a growing market. The demand for semiconductors is expected to expand against products, the sales of other product groups declined. a backdrop of the advance and spread of technologies such as 5G, AI and IoT, bringing a recovery in market conditions in 2020. Given this projection, we anticipate that the SPE Strengths of the business business will improve significantly in terms of profitability. However, because we had been focusing on increasing our We undertake the whole process from the development of production capacity of electrostatic chucks in anticipation of materials to the manufacture of products, and this integrated an increase in demand for semiconductors, our depreciation production enables us to supply products, including silicon Probe card substrates cost increased in FY2019, resulting in a drop in profit. Moving nitride balls, piezoelectric elements and oscillators, that are forward, we will be ready to seize every opportunity brought fabricated meticulously in response to customers’ requests. NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 95 96 Business Infrastructure Morimura Group Stories for Value Creation Growth Strategies to Support Sustainable Growth Business Strategy Plug business Sensor business Technical Ceramics Group Other businesses Medical business Fuel cell business reduce costs. Through the development of ceramics power generation technology, we intend to promote the popularization of fuel cells and further contribute to Future direction Future direction environmental protection. Our medical business provides products for implant and We have been developing solid oxide fuel cells (SOFCs) healthcare applications based on our ceramics and sensing since 1999 by mobilizing our know-how and technologies, 5G products technologies developed in the plug and sensor businesses. In including multilayering and metal-ceramics bonding technologies, 04 the implant business, we have been focusing on developing which have been built up through many years of experience in We will make inroads into a new business for 5G and marketing artificial bones used to replace missing parts manufacturing spark plugs, automotive oxygen sensors and networks in the millimeter-wave range (28 GHz band), of damaged bones and their related products. We will expand semiconductor packages. Because SOFCs are more energy which are expected to be put into full operation in around our product lineup to include orthopedic implant products in efficient than other fuel cells and considered effective in reducing 2025, as well as Beyond 5G and 6G networks. We are addition to ceramic artificial bones to expedite business growth. CO2 and other greenhouse gas emissions, they are expected currently working on the development of products for this Business In the healthcare business, we manufacture and sell oxygen to become an important source of clean energy. The heat business by combining our core technologies for sheet Strategy concentrators for patients with respiratory problems, such as generated in the chemical reaction process can also be used for lamination, ceramics materials development and highchronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). In December the supply of hot water. Although the market size for hydrogen frequency design. The main target markets are mobile 2018, we acquired the shares of CAIRE, the oxygen concentrator fuel cells is still small, it is expected to substantially expand communication applications (such as mobile phones business arm of the Chart Group in the United States, and toward 2030. The market of stationary fuel cells in particular, and automotive onboard equipment), communication Other started expanding our sales channels overseas. CAIRE’s lineup which our group companies are developing, is predicted to grow infrastructure applications (base stations and optical and covers all types of oxygen concentrators—portable, movable, at a stable rate. Our group companies are working hard toward satellite communication systems, which support data and stationary—and the collaboration with CAIRE will enable us the commercialization of SOFCs and becoming a fuel-cell stack communication and processing from behind the scenes) and businesses to further expand the business. Moving forward, we will utilize our sensing technologies to develop products that will help increase maker that offers a comprehensive lineup of fuel-cell stacks for industrial, commercial and household use. local 5G network applications (data communication systems for use within a limited area, such as a factory or farm). the value of medical care and other industries. For NGK SPARK PLUG, which has been Challenges relying on spark plugs, oxygen sensors and Challenges other automotive components for more than While fuel cells, which generate electricity through a chemical 80% of its sales, one of the most important As an aging population is becoming an issue not only in Japan reaction between hydrogen and oxygen, are expected to priorities is to create new businesses in order but also in the United States, Europe and China, the medical spread in the future as a power generation system that is to diversify our business portfolio for longbusiness potentially has a large market. Respiratory diseases clean and can be miniaturized, they have disadvantages term sustainable growth. We will actively are particularly prominent in China and India, and these two in terms of cost and durability at present. Our challenge, cultivate new business domains by countries are considered huge prospective markets. One therefore, is to increase the precision of each technology Antenna module for 5G mmWave of our challenges is how we can shorten the time required employed and enhance power-generating efficiency to leveraging our long-accumulated strengths. to obtain regulatory approval and licenses for our medical devices, which is normally a time-consuming process, in order to put them on the market in a timely manner. A solution to TOPICS this in our healthcare business is the acquisition of CAIRE, Commencement of operation by MORIMURA SOFC TECHNOLOGY CO., LTD. which has allowed us to expand our sales channels overseas. Similarly, we also intend to expand the implant business MORIMURA SOFC TECHNOLOGY CO., LTD., a joint company belonging to NORITAKE through such means as forming partnerships with overseas CO., LIMITED., TOTO LTD., NGK INSULATORS, LTD. and NGK SPARK PLUG, commenced companies. The optimization of our product lineup is another its operation in December 2019. The new company brings together the SOFC-related challenge. We will tap into new areas of business to which we technologies and know-how of the four partners and integrates their management resources can apply our sensing technologies as well as find new needs to achieve the common goal of commercializing SOFCs as soon as possible. and seeds to develop new products. About the Morimura Group, see ⇒ P.17 Establishment of CECYLLS Co., Ltd. NGK SPARK PLUG and Mitsubishi Power, Ltd.* established their joint company, CECYLLS Co., Ltd., in January 2020. The new company will combine Mitsubishi Power’s technology to design cylindrical cell stacks, which feature a long life and efficient heat utilization capabilities, with our ceramics mass production technology to produce and sell highquality cylindrical cell stacks in mass volumes. * Former Mitsubishi Hitachi Power Systems, Ltd. The name was changed on September 1, 2020. Bioceramics NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 97 98 Financial Results Highlights for the Past 11 Years J-GAAP IFRS (Millions of yen) (Fiscal year) 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2019 Revenue 243,914 269,232 284,746 302,798 329,758 347,636 383,272 372,919 409,912 425,013 426,207 426,073 Operating income (loss) 10,683 28,770 24,478 23,754 51,661 62,196 66,284 53,595 67,279 58,385 46,444 48,447 Ordinary income(loss) 10,758 27,379 23,740 27,674 54,960 67,907 64,483 55,559 69,094 59,258 44,249 — Profit(loss))attributable to owners of the parent 13,509 23,680 25,524 20,909 32,704 36,753 30,815 25,602 44,335 42,638 30,116 33,698 Capital expenditures 10,977 8,767 14,004 24,012 41,034 36,372 45,339 36,328 37,591 56,587 48,771 51,004 Depreciation 18,825 16,646 15,438 12,798 11,567 13,337 16,834 19,601 20,920 23,979 30,186 31,952 R&D expenses 13,907 15,763 16,036 17,100 19,400 21,337 23,123 23,416 25,283 28,072 28,797 28,315 Cash flows from operating activities 34,255 35,398 21,079 26,194 54,697 36,593 56,465 49,764 65,707 43,704 57,285 59,787 Cash flows from investing activities △17,270 △20,412 △15,850 △15,442 △61,148 △12,865 △82,331 △53,410 △26,422 △48,380 52,325 △52,926 Free cash flows 27,834 30,684 8,507 8,456 3,541 13,995 △25,866 6,335 29,636 △21,356 2,704 4,627 Dividend payout 1,198 3,594 4,789 4,788 5,223 7,181 8,487 9,055 10,823 14,601 14,601 14,435 Total equity 207,006 218,159 235,613 268,309 302,793 343,380 341,044 354,710 388,115 401,505 389,795 399,737 Total assets 331,476 337,318 340,295 366,489 458,148 485,497 526,103 563,801 599,972 629,417 641,300 663,374 Interest bearing debt 39,814 36,697 37,399 27,418 57,339 46,153 80,212 99,275 98,115 110,755 147,393 152,946 (Yen) Earnings (losses) per share 62.01 108.71 117.25 96.06 150.26 168.88 141.60 119.44 209.37 204.74 145.72 163.06 Equity attributable to owners of the parent per share 942.41 994.36 1,075.24 1,223.41 1,381.38 1,566.80 1,557.16 1,660.06 1,837.46 1,917.04 1,897.79 1,946.10 Cash dividends per share 11.00 22.00 22.00 22.00 28.00 36.00 42.00 42.00 60.00 70.00 70.00 70.00 Operating income ratio (%) 4.4 10.7 8.6 7.8 15.7 17.9 17.3 14.4 16.4 13.7 10.9 11.4 Return on Sales revenue (%) 5.5 8.8 9.0 6.9 9.9 10.6 8.0 6.9 10.8 10.0 7.1 7.9 Gross profit on sales (%) 21.0 27.4 25.1 24.2 32.6 35.8 35.6 33.0 34.6 33.8 31.5 31.4 ROE (Return on equity) (%) 7.0 11.2 11.3 8.4 11.5 11.4 9.1 7.4 12.0 10.9 7.7 8.4 ROA (Return on assets) (%) 4.4 7.1 7.5 5.9 7.9 7.8 6.1 4.7 7.6 6.8 4.7 5.1 ROIC (Return on invested capital) (%) 3.2 8.0 6.5 5.8 11.0 11.6 11.4 8.5 10.0 8.2 6.2 6.2 Equity ratio (%) 61.9 64.2 68.8 72.7 65.6 70.2 64.4 62.5 64.3 63.4 60.2 59.7 Total asset turnover (%) 0.8 0.8 0.8 0.9 0.8 0.7 0.8 0.7 0.7 0.7 0.7 0.8 Dividend payout ratio (%) 17.7 20.2 18.8 22.9 18.6 21.3 29.7 35.2 28.7 34.2 48.0 42.9 NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 99 100 Consolidated Statement of Financial Position Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. and Consolidated Subsidiaries NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. and Consolidated Subsidiaries Date of transition, March 31, 2019 and 2020 For the years ended March 31, 2019 and 2020 Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars Date of transition Notes 2019 2020 2020 Notes (April 1, 2018) 2019 2020 2020 Revenue 4,24 ¥ 425,109 ¥ 426,073 $ 3,908,927 Assets Cost of sales (285,007) (292,292) (2,681,578) Current assets Gross profit 140,101 133,781 1,227,349 Cash and cash equivalents 6 ¥ 87,479 ¥ 74,404 ¥ 86,092 $ 789,835 Selling, general and administrative expenses 25 (84,597) (87,292) (800,844) Trade and other receivables 7 96,736 100,311 92,604 849,578 Share of profit of investments accounted for using the equity method 4,13 497 1,135 10,413 Other financial assets 14 29,533 9,423 5,897 54,101 Other income 26 1,989 1,542 14,147 Inventories 8 97,746 115,735 116,720 1,070,826 Other expenses 26 (2,670) (718) (6,587) Other current assets 8,745 11,862 13,189 121,000 Operating profit 4 55,321 48,447 444,468 Total current assets 320,241 311,737 314,505 2,885,367 Finance income 27 3,351 3,068 28,147 Noncurrent assets Finance expenses 27 (2,023) (6,766) (62,073) Property, plant and equipment 9 206,510 238,012 251,010 2,302,844 Profit before income taxes 56,649 44,749 410,541 Goodwill and intangible assets 10 6,699 15,678 15,774 144,716 Income tax expenses 28 (15,826) (11,118) (102,000) Right-of-use assets 12 7,587 8,591 9,541 87,532 Profit 40,823 33,631 308,541 Investments accounted for using the 13 13,054 13,179 13,615 124,908 Profit (loss) attributable to equity method Owners of the parent 40,515 33,698 309,156 Other financial assets 14 60,470 52,547 43,557 399,606 Noncontrolling interests ¥ 308 ¥ (67) $ (615) Deferred tax assets 28 10,137 10,603 14,296 131,156 Other noncurrent assets 2,132 1,579 1,073 9,844 Yen U.S. dollars Total noncurrent assets 306,592 340,192 348,869 3,200,633 Notes 2019 2020 2020 Total assets 626,833 651,929 663,374 6,086,000 Earnings per share 29 Basic earnings per share ¥194.55 ¥163.06 $1.50 Liabilities and Equity Diluted earnings per share — — — Liabilities Current liabilities Trade and other payables 15 44,719 49,049 43,681 400,743 Bonds and borrowings 16 44,793 36,466 45,257 415,202 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income Other financial liabilities 17 2,096 2,281 3,126 28,679 NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. and Consolidated Subsidiaries For the years ended March 31, 2019 and 2020 Income taxes payable 12,209 8,456 2,240 20,550 Other current liabilities 18 34,069 33,332 31,176 286,018 Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars Total current liabilities 137,889 129,586 125,481 1,151,202 Notes 2019 2020 2020 Noncurrent liabilities Profit ¥40,823 ¥ 33,631 $ 308,541 Bonds and borrowings 16 50,126 72,194 97,406 893,633 Other comprehensive income (net of tax effects) Net defined benefit liabilities 19 25,043 27,199 29,494 270,587 Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss Other financial liabilities 17 10,326 9,164 8,038 73,743 Financial assets measured at fair value through other 30 (5,594) (7,535) (69,128) comprehensive income Deferred tax liabilities 28 3,024 568 24 220 Remeasurements of defined benefit plans 30 (781) (710) (6,514) Other noncurrent liabilities 18 2,811 3,225 3,191 29,275 Share of other comprehensive income of investments 13,30 (20) (5) (46) Total noncurrent liabilities 91,333 112,352 138,155 1,267,477 accounted for using the equity method Total liabilities 229,222 241,938 263,636 2,418,679 Total of items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss (6,395) (8,251) (75,697) Equity Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss Capital stock 21 47,869 47,869 47,869 439,165 Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 30 (3,252) (11,975) (109,862) Capital surplus 21 54,756 54,835 54,791 502,670 Share of other comprehensive income of investments 13,30 (54) (576) (5,284) Retained earnings 21 267,089 284,228 291,122 2,670,844 accounted for using the equity method Treasury stock 21 (6,422) (1,741) (1,602) (14,697) Total of items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss (3,306) (12,551) (115,147) Other components of equity 21 31,739 22,235 3,696 33,908 Total other comprehensive income (net of tax effects) (9,702) (20,803) (190,853) Total equity attributable to owners of the parent 395,032 407,427 395,876 3,631,890 Comprehensive income ¥31,120 ¥ 12,828 $ 117,688 Noncontrolling interests 2,578 2,564 3,861 35,422 Comprehensive income attributable to Total equity 397,611 409,991 399,737 3,667,312 Owners of the parent 30,893 13,119 120,358 Total liabilities and equity ¥626,833 ¥651,929 ¥663,374 $6,086,000 Noncontrolling interests ¥ 227 ¥ (291) $ (2,670) NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 101 102 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. and Consolidated Subsidiaries NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. and Consolidated Subsidiaries For the Years Ended March 31, 2019 and 2020 For the Years Ended March 31, 2019 and 2020 Millions of yen Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars Equity attributable to owners of the parent Notes 2019 2020 2020 Other components of equity Financial assets Cash flows from operating activities measured at Exchange fair value differences RemeasureProfit before income taxes ¥ 56,649 ¥ 44,749 $ 410,541 through other on translation ments of NonCapital Capital Retained Treasury comprehensive of foreign defined controlling Notes stock surplus earnings stock income operations benefit plans Total Total interests Total equity Depreciation and amortization 26,624 31,952 293,138 Balance as at April 1, 2018 ¥47,869 ¥54,756 ¥267,089 ¥ (6,422) ¥31,739 ¥ — ¥ — ¥31,739 ¥395,032 ¥2,578 ¥397,611 Impairment losses 1,675 — — Profit 40,515 — 40,515 308 40,823 Foreign exchange loss 410 2,873 26,358 Other comprehensive income (5,612) (3,226) (783) (9,622) (9,622) (80) (9,702) Interest and dividends income (2,410) (2,167) (19,881) Total comprehensive income — — 40,515 — (5,612) (3,226) (783) (9,622) 30,893 227 31,120 Purchase of treasury stock (5,002) — (5,002) (5,002) Interest expenses 767 899 8,248 Sales of treasury stock (0) 35 — 35 35 Share of profit of investments accounted for using the equity (497) (1,135) (10,413) Cancellation of treasury stock (9,647) 9,647 — — — method Dividends 22 (13,610) — (13,610) (242) (13,852) Loss on disposal of noncurrent assets 910 637 5,844 Share-based remuneration 23 78 — 78 78 transactions Decrease (increase) in trade and other receivables (1,705) 2,716 24,917 Transfer from other components of (118) (664) 783 118 — — Increase in inventories (15,526) (6,560) (60,183) equity to retained earnings Total transactions with owners — 78 (23,376) 4,680 (664) — 783 118 (18,498) (242) (18,741) Increase (decrease) in trade and other payables (56) 4,401 40,376 Balance as at March 31, 2019 47,869 54,835 284,228 (1,741) 25,462 (3,226) — 22,235 407,427 2,564 409,991 Increase in net defined benefit liabilities 1,052 1,867 17,128 Balance as at April 1, 2019 47,869 54,835 284,228 (1,741) 25,462 (3,226) — 22,235 407,427 2,564 409,991 Other, net (2,284) (4,041) (37,073) Profit 33,698 — 33,698 (67) 33,631 Other comprehensive income (7,541) (12,327) (710) (20,578) (20,578) (224) (20,803) Subtotal 65,610 76,191 699,000 Total comprehensive income — — 33,698 — (7,541) (12,327) (710) (20,578) 13,119 (291) 12,828 Dividends received 1,683 1,689 15,495 Purchase of treasury shares (10,074) — (10,074) (10,074) Interest received 778 989 9,073 Sales of treasury stock 49 — 49 49 Interest paid (709) (766) (7,028) Cancellation of treasury stock (10,164) 10,164 — — — Dividends 22 (14,601) — (14,601) (254) (14,855) Income taxes paid (20,932) (18,316) (168,037) Share-based remuneration 23 48 — 48 48 Net cash provided by operating activities 46,430 59,787 548,505 transactions Changes in ownership interests in (92) — (92) 1,843 1,751 Cash flows from investing activities subsidiaries Net decrease (increase) in time deposits (290) 2,288 20,991 Transfer from other components of (2,039) 1,329 710 2,039 — — equity to retained earnings Net (increase) decrease in short-term investment securities 16,981 (54) (495) Total transactions with owners — (44) (26,804) 139 1,329 — 710 2,039 (24,670) 1,588 (23,081) Purchase of property, plant and equipment (50,786) (50,629) (464,486) Balance as at March 31, 2020 ¥47,869 ¥54,791 ¥291,122 ¥ (1,602) ¥19,250 ¥(15,553) ¥ — ¥ 3,696 ¥395,876 ¥3,861 ¥399,737 Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 433 225 2,064 Purchase of intangible assets (3,208) (2,931) (26,890) Thousands of U.S. dollars Purchase of shares of subsidiaries resulting in change in scope of 5 (13,842) — — Equity attributable to owners of the parent consolidation Other components of equity Financial assets Purchase of investment securities (1,498) (1,575) (14,450) measured at Exchange fair value differences on RemeasureProceeds from sale and redemption of investment securities 3,424 363 3,330 through other translation of ments of NonNotes Capital stock Capital surplus Retained earnings Treasury stock comprehensive income foreign operations defined benefit plans Total Total controlling interests Total equity Other, net (95) (613) (5,624) Balance as at April 1, 2019 $439,165 $503,073 $2,607,596 $(15,972) $233,596 $ (29,596) $ — $ 203,991 $3,737,862 $23,523 $3,761,385 Net cash used in investing activities (48,883) (52,926) (485,560) Profit 309,156 — 309,156 (615) 308,541 Cash flows from financing activities Other comprehensive income (69,183) (113,092) (6,514) (188,789) (188,789) (2,055) (190,853) Net (decrease) increase in short-term loans payable 31 15,722 (16,404) (150,495) Total comprehensive income — — 309,156 — (69,183) (113,092) (6,514) (188,789) 120,358 (2,670) 117,688 Purchase of treasury shares (92,422) — (92,422) (92,422) Proceeds from long-term loans payable 31 10,100 30,000 275,229 Sales of treasury stock 450 — 450 450 Repayments of long-term loans payable 31 (9,962) (9,924) (91,046) Cancellation of treasury stock (93,248) 93,248 — — — Proceeds from issuance of bonds 31 19,892 29,852 273,872 Dividends 22 (133,954) — (133,954) (2,330) (136,284) Share-based remuneration 23 440 — 440 440 Redemption of bonds 31 (25,000) — — transactions Repayments of lease liabilities 31 (2,231) (2,637) (24,193) Changes in ownership interests in (844) — (844) 16,908 16,064 subsidiaries Purchase of treasury stock 21 (5,002) (10,074) (92,422) Transfer from other components of (18,706) 12,193 6,514 18,706 — — Dividends paid to owners of the parent 22 (13,604) (14,596) (133,908) equity to retained earnings Total transactions with owners — (404) (245,908) 1,275 12,193 — 6,514 18,706 (226,330) 14,569 (211,752) Dividends paid to noncontrolling interests (242) (254) (2,330) Balance as at March 31, 2020 $439,165 $502,670 $2,670,844 $(14,697) $176,606 $(142,688) $ — $ 33,908 $3,631,890 $35,422 $3,667,312 Capital contribution from noncontrolling interests — 1,470 13,486 Other, net 35 — — Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities (10,291) 7,432 68,183 Effect of exchange rate change on cash and cash equivalents (330) (2,605) (23,899) Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (13,075) 11,687 107,220 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the period 6 87,479 74,404 682,606 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the period 6 ¥ 74,404 ¥ 86,092 $ 789,835 NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 103 104 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. and Consolidated Subsidiaries Assuming that this effect will be generally contained in the fiscal year ending March 31, 2021, the Group made accounting estimates for 1. Reporting Entity impairment of non-financial assets and recoverability of deferred tax assets during the current consolidated fiscal year. There are uncertainties in this assumption, and if the effect is prolonged, it could affect the financial condition and operating results of the Group for NGK Spark Plug Co., Ltd. (hereafter, “the Company”) is a company domiciled in Japan. Information on the address of its registered head the next consolidated fiscal year. office and main business offices is presented on the Company’s website (https://www.ngkntk.co.jp/). The consolidated financial statements of the Company, as of March 31, 2020, are composed of the financial statements of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries (hereafter, “the Group”) and its interests in associates. 3. Significant Accounting Policies The Group is primarily engaged in manufacturing and sale of automotive components and technical ceramics consisting of semiconductor and ceramics components. The significant accounting policies of the Group are as follows and are applied continuously to all periods presented in the consolidated financial statements, unless otherwise stated. 2. Basis of Preparation (1) Basis of consolidation (1) Statement of compliance with IFRS The consolidated financial statements of the Group include financial statements of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries, and interests in associates that are accounted for using the equity method. As the Company meets all the requirements of “Specified Company Complying with Designated International Accounting Standards” 1) Subsidiaries stipulated in Article 1-2 of the Ordinance on Consolidated Financial Statements, it prepares its consolidated financial statements in Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group. The Group controls an entity when it has power over the entity, is exposed to variable accordance with IFRS pursuant to the provisions of Article 93 of the Ordinance. returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity. The Group adopted IFRS for the first time in the consolidated fiscal year ended March 31, 2020, and the date of transition to IFRS The financial statements of the subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date on which control is (hereafter, “date of transition”) is April 1, 2018. The impact of the transition to IFRS on the Group’s financial position, business performance obtained until the date on which control is lost. In the event that the Group disposes of a portion of its ownership interest in a subsidiary and cash flows as of the date of transition and comparative year are described in “Note 36: First time adoption.” while control is retained, the change in ownership interest of the Group is accounted for as an equity transaction, and the difference With the exception of IFRSs that are not early adopted and exemptions permitted under the provisions of IFRS 1 “First-time Adoption of between the adjustment of noncontrolling interests and the fair value of the consideration is directly recognized in equity as equity International Financial Reporting Standards” (hereafter, “IFRS 1”), the Group’s accounting policies comply with IFRS effective as of March 31, attributable to owners of the parent. If control is lost, any gain or loss arising from the loss of control is recognized in profit or loss. 2020. The consolidated financial statements include investments in subsidiaries with different fiscal year-ends from that of the Company and The Group’s consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2020 were approved by Takeshi Kawai, Representative for which it is impracticable to align fiscal year-ends due to laws and regulations of the location where the subsidiaries operate that require Director, President and Chief Operating Officer, on June 24, 2020. different fiscal year-ends from that of the parent. For such subsidiaries, financial statements prepared with a provisional closing date set on (2) Basis of measurement the same date as that of consolidated financial statements are used. Where the accounting policies applied by a subsidiary are different from those applied by the Group, adjustments are made as The consolidated financial statements of the Group have been prepared on a historical cost basis, except for financial instruments, etc., necessary to the relevant subsidiary’s financial statements. Intra-group balances of payables and receivables and intra-group transactions, measured at fair value as stated in “Note 3: Significant Accounting Policies.” as well as unrealized gains or losses arising from intra-group transactions, are eliminated on consolidation. (3) Functional currency and presentation currency 2) Associates Associates are entities over which the Group has significant influence over financial and operating policy decisions, but not control or joint The consolidated financial statements of the Group are presented in Japanese yen, which is the functional currency of the Company. All control. Investments in associates are accounted for using the equity method. financial information presented in Japanese yen is rounded down to the nearest million. Investments in associates are initially recognized at cost. The Company’s investments include goodwill recognized on acquisition. The The translation of the Japanese yen amounts into U.S. dollar amounts is included solely for the convenience of readers outside Japan, Group’s share in the profit or loss and other comprehensive income of its associates is recognized as changes in the Group’s investments using the approximate exchange rate prevailing as at March 31, 2020, which was ¥109 to U.S. $1.00. The translation should not be in associates from the date significant influence is acquired until the date significant influence ceases. construed as a representation that the Japanese yen amounts have been, could have been or could in the future be converted into U.S. The consolidated financial statements include investments in associates whose fiscal year-end is different from that of the Company, dollars at this or any other rate of exchange. as it is impracticable to align the dates due to relationships with other shareholders or other factors. For such associates, financial Certain comparative figures have been reclassified to conform to the current year’s presentation. statements prepared with a provisional closing date set in line with the consolidated fiscal year-end are used. (4) Early adoption of new standards If the Group’s share of losses of an associate exceeds its interest in the associate, the carrying amount of the investment is reduced to zero and no further losses are recognized unless the Group has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate. No items to report. If an associate uses accounting policies that differ from those of the Group, the associate’s financial statements are adjusted as necessary. (5) New standards and interpretations not yet adopted by the Group (2) Business combinations None of the new standards and interpretations not yet adopted have a material impact on the Group’s consolidated financial statements. Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method. Noncontrolling interests are measured at the proportionate share in the fair value of the acquiree’s identifiable assets and liabilities. (6) Use of estimates and judgments Where the aggregate of the consideration transferred, the amount of any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree and, in a business The preparation of the consolidated financial statements in accordance with IFRS requires management to make judgments, estimates and combination achieved in stages, the acquisition-date fair value of the acquirer’s previously held equity interest in the acquiree exceeds the net assumptions that affect the application of accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses. Actual amount of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the date of acquisition, the excess is recognized as goodwill. Conversely, if results could differ from these estimates. this aggregate consideration is less than the net amount of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed, the difference is Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognized in the period recognized as a gain in profit or loss. in which the estimates are revised and in future periods when these revisions have an impact. Acquisition-related costs of business combinations are accounted for as expenses when incurred, except for costs of issuing debt or Information regarding judgments made in applying accounting policies that have a significant effect on the amounts recognized in the equity securities. consolidated financial statements is contained in the notes below. If the initial accounting treatment of a business combination is not completed by the end of the fiscal year in which the business • Accounting treatment of agreements that include lease contracts – “Note 3: Significant accounting policies (9) Leases” and “Note 12: combination took place, provisional amounts for the items for which accounting is incomplete are reported. In the event the Company Leases.” obtained new information about facts and circumstances which were in existence at the acquisition date that, if known, would have affected The following notes contain information about assumption and estimation uncertainties that may have a significant risk of resulting in the measurement of the amounts recognized on the acquisition date, and that such information was obtained during the period in which it is material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the fiscal year ending March 31, 2021. likely to have affected the measurement of the amounts recognized (hereafter, the “measurement period”), the provisional amounts • Impairment losses on non-financial assets – “Note 3: Significant accounting policies (10) Impairment losses of non-financial assets” and recognized on the acquisition date are adjusted retrospectively to reflect such information. The new information may require additional “Note 11: Impairment losses of non-financial assets.” recognition of assets and liabilities. The measurement period shall not exceed one year. • Measurement of defined benefit obligations – “Note 19: Employee benefits” Business combination under common control is a business combination involving entities or businesses in which all the combining • Recoverability of deferred tax assets – “Note 3: Significant accounting policies (18) Income taxes” and “Note 28: Income taxes” entities or businesses are ultimately controlled by the same party or parties both before and after the business combination and that control is • Measurement of financial instruments – “Note 20: Financial instruments” not transitory. Such transaction continues to be accounted for using carrying amounts. Regarding the impact of COVID-19, there is no unified view on when it will be fully contained, so there is uncertainty regarding the future impact on the Group. NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 105 106 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (3) Foreign currency translation comprehensive income, the Group recognizes allowance for doubtful accounts in an amount equal to lifetime expected credit loss if credit risk on the financial asset has increased significantly since initial recognition. If credit risk of a financial asset has not increased 1) Foreign currency-denominated transactions significantly since initial recognition, an amount equal to 12-month expected credit loss is recognized as allowance for doubtful Foreign currency-denominated transactions, namely transactions in currencies other than the functional currency of each company, are accounts. Assessment on whether credit risk of a financial asset has increased significantly since initial recognition is described in “Note translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates in effect on the dates of the transactions. Monetary assets and liabilities 20: Financial instruments (2) Financial risk management 4) Credit risk.” denominated in foreign currencies are translated into the functional currency at the exchange rate of the fiscal year-end date. Non-monetary However, for trade receivables, allowance for doubtful accounts is always recognized at an amount equal to lifetime expected credit assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value in a foreign currency are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rate loss. Estimates of expected credit losses of financial instruments are measured in a manner that reflects the following: at the date when the fair value was determined. Exchange differences arising from the translation are recognized in profit or loss. (a) An unbiased and probability-weighted amount that is determined by evaluating a range of possible outcomes Non-monetary items denominated in a foreign currency that are measured at historical cost are translated using the exchange rate in (b) Time value of money effect on the date of the transaction. (c) Reasonable and supportable information that is available without undue cost or effort at the reporting date about past events, current conditions and forecasts of future economic conditions 2) Foreign operations The amount associated with the above measurement is recognized in profit or loss. Assets and liabilities of foreign operations (consolidated subsidiaries and branch offices) are translated into the presentation currency at (iv) Derecognition of financial assets the exchange rate as of the fiscal year-end date. Profit or loss and cash flows are translated into the presentation currency at the The Group derecognizes a financial asset when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the financial asset expire, or when the exchange rates of the transaction dates or the average exchange rate for the period that approximates the exchange rates of the Group assigns the financial asset whereby substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the financial asset are transferred. transaction dates. Translation differences arising as a result are recognized in other comprehensive income. In the event of disposal of the entire ownership interest in a foreign operation or a part of the interest that results in a loss of control, 2) Non-derivative financial liabilities the cumulative amount of the exchange differences of the foreign operation that were recognized in other comprehensive income are (i) Initial recognition and measurement reclassified to profit or loss in the period when the disposal occurred. Financial liabilities are classified as amortized cost. A financial liability is initially recognized at amortized cost on the trade date on which (4) Financial instruments the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument. A financial liability measured at amortized cost is initially recognized at fair value less transaction costs directly attributable to its 1) Non-derivative financial assets issuance. (i) Initial recognition and measurement (ii) Subsequent measurement Stocks and bonds are initially recognized on the trade date. All other financial assets are initially recognized on the date on which the A financial liability is recognized at amortized cost calculated by the effective interest method, and interest is recognized as “Finance Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of these instruments. expenses” in profit or loss. At initial recognition, a financial asset is classified either as financial asset measured at amortized cost or that measured at fair (iii) Derecognition of financial liabilities value, as follows. A financial liability is derecognized when it is extinguished, which is when the obligation specified in the contract is either discharged, (a) Financial assets measured at amortized cost cancelled or expires. A financial asset is classified as financial asset measured at amortized cost if both of the following two conditions are met. • The financial asset is held within a business model whose objective is to hold assets in order to collect contractual cash flows. 3) Derivatives • The contractual terms of the financial asset give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and The Group uses derivative transactions, including foreign exchange forward contracts, interest rate and currency swaps, and currency interest on the principal amount outstanding. options, to hedge currency and interest rate fluctuation risks. (b) Financial assets measured at fair value Derivatives are initially recognized at fair value. After initial recognition, the fair value is remeasured and changes are recognized in Financial assets other than those measured at amortized cost described above are classified as financial assets measured at fair profit or loss. value through profit or loss or other comprehensive income. For debt instruments, these are classified as debt instrument asset measured at fair value through other comprehensive income 4) Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities if the following conditions are met. Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and presented as a net amount only when the Group has a legally enforceable right to set • The financial asset is held within a business model whose objective is to hold assets in order to collect contractual cash flow or off the recognized amounts and intends either to settle on a net basis or to realize the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. sell financial assets. • The contractual terms of the financial asset give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and (5) Cash and cash equivalents interest on the principal amount outstanding. Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand, demand deposits, and short-term, highly liquid investments with a maturity of 3 months With respect to investments in equity instrument for purposes other than sale, the option is available at initial recognition to or less that are readily convertible to cash and subject to insignificant risk of changes in value. make an irrevocable election to present subsequent fair value changes in other comprehensive income. The Group makes such designation for individual assets. (6) Inventories Except for financial assets that are classified as financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss, financial assets are Inventories are measured at the lower of acquisition cost and net realizable value. The acquisition cost of inventories is mainly calculated by individually measured at fair value plus transaction costs that are directly attributable to the asset. the moving average method and includes all costs of purchasing and processing, as well as other costs incurred in bringing the inventories to Trade receivables that do not contain a significant financial component are measured at transaction price. their present location and condition. Net realizable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated For financial assets that are measured at fair value through profit or loss, transaction costs are recognized in profit or loss when incurred. costs of completion and the estimated costs necessary to make the sale. (ii) Subsequent measurement (7) Property, plant and equipment (a) Financial assets measured at amortized cost These are recognized at amortized cost calculated by the effective interest method, and interest income is recognized as “Finance Property, plant and equipment are measured using the cost model and are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated income” in profit or loss. impairment losses. (b) Financial assets measured at fair value The cost of property, plant and equipment includes costs directly attributable to the acquisition of property, plant and equipment; For financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss, changes in fair value are recognized in profit or loss. estimated costs of dismantling and removing the asset and restoring the site; and borrowing costs that satisfy the requirements for For debt instrument assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income, changes in fair value, other than capitalization. If the useful life of each component of an item of property, plant and equipment varies, it is accounted for as a separate item of impairment gains or losses and foreign currency gains or losses, are recognized as other comprehensive income until derecognition or property, plant and equipment. change in classification. When the financial asset is derecognized, the gains or losses recognized in the prior years are reclassified from Property, plant and equipment, except for land and construction in progress, are depreciated using the straight-line method over the other comprehensive income to profit or loss. estimated useful life of each asset from the date when it has become available for use. The estimated useful lives of major assets are as follows. For equity instruments for which the Group elected to designate as financial assets measured at fair value through other Buildings and structures: 8 to 50 years comprehensive income, changes in fair value are recognized as other comprehensive income. Cumulative gains or losses are Machinery, equipment and vehicles: 4 to 10 years reclassified to retained earnings on derecognition or if there is a significant decrease in fair value. Dividends, however, are The depreciation method, residual values and useful lives are reviewed annually and adjusted where necessary. recognized in profit or loss as “Finance income.” Items of property, plant and equipment are derecognized on disposal or when no future economic benefit is expected from their (iii) Impairment of financial assets continued use or disposal. The gain or loss arising from derecognition is recognized in profit or loss at the time of derecognition of the relevant With respect to financial assets measured at amortized cost and debt instrument assets measured at fair value through other item of property, plant and equipment. NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 107 108 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (8) Goodwill and intangible assets An individual asset or cash-generating unit on which impairment tests are performed is the smallest unit (or group of units) which, based on management accounting categories, generates independent cash flows. Corporate assets are allocated to individual cash-generating 1) Goodwill units where a reasonable and consistent allocation method can be identified. Idle property is grouped for each individual asset. Goodwill is not amortized and is allocated to an asset, a cash-generating unit or a group of cash-generating units that are identified The recoverable amount of an individual asset or a cash-generating unit is the higher of its value in use and its fair value less costs of according to location and type of business. It is tested for impairment at the same time every year or when an indication of impairment is disposal. In calculating value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that identified. Impairment loss on goodwill is recognized in profit or loss and no reversal is made. reflects the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset. For the calculation of fair value less costs of disposal, an appropriate After initial recognition, goodwill is stated at cost less accumulated impairment losses. valuation model is used that is supported by available fair value indicators. If the carrying amount of an asset or a cash-generating unit exceeds the recoverable amount, an impairment loss is recognized in profit 2) Capitalization of development cost or loss, and the carrying amount of the asset is reduced to the recoverable amount. Impairment loss recognized in relation to a cashExpenditures on research activities to gain new scientific or technical knowledge are expensed when incurred. Expenditures on generating unit is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the cash-generating unit, and then to the other development activities are capitalized only if the Company can demonstrate that all of the following requirements are met. assets in the unit proportionately to the carrying amount of each asset in the unit. (a) The technical feasibility of completing the intangible asset so that it will be available for use or sale In calculating the recoverable amount, certain assumptions are made regarding the estimated future cash flows and discount rates, etc. (b) Its intention to complete the intangible asset and use or sell it These assumptions may be affected by future uncertain economic conditions, such as long-term effects of COVID-19. If it is necessary to (c) Its ability to use or sell the intangible asset revise these assumptions because of these future uncertain economic conditions, it could have a significant impact on the recoverable (d) How the intangible asset will generate probable future economic benefits amounts recognized in the following fiscal years’ consolidated financial statements. (e) The availability of adequate technical, financial and other resources to complete the development and use or sell the intangible asset Impairment loss on goodwill is not reversed. For impairment loss on non-financial assets other than goodwill, the recoverable amount of (f) Its ability to measure reliably the expenditure attributable to the intangible asset during its development the asset is estimated if there is an indication that the impairment loss may no longer exist or may have decreased, and the impairment loss is The amount initially recognized for internally generated intangible asset is the sum of expenditures incurred from the time when the reversed if the recoverable amount exceeds the carrying amount net of depreciation or amortization. Reversal of the impairment loss on an intangible asset first meets all the recognition criteria listed above to the completion of the development phase. This is amortized using asset is recognized in profit or loss only to the extent that the carrying amount of the asset does not exceed the carrying amount that would the straight-line method for the expected period when the costs incurred for development would be recovered. Cost at initial have been determined had no impairment loss been recognized in prior years. recognition less accumulated amortization and accumulated impairment losses is recognized in the consolidated statement of financial position. (11) Employee benefits Development cost that does not meet the above requirements for capitalization is recognized in profit or loss when incurred. 1) Post-employment benefits The Company and certain consolidated subsidiaries have defined benefit-type corporate pension plans and lump-sum retirement benefit 3) Other intangible assets plans, while certain overseas consolidated subsidiaries have defined contribution plans. Intangible assets are measured at cost less accumulated amortization and accumulated impairment losses. i) Defined benefit plans Intangible assets acquired separately are measured at cost at the time of initial recognition. Intangible assets acquired in business The present value of defined benefit obligations as well as related current and past service costs are determined using the projected combinations are measured at fair value as of the date of the business combination. unit credit method. Acquisition and development costs of software for internal use are accounted for as intangible asset if it is probable that the future The discount rate is determined by reference to market yields at the fiscal year end on high-quality corporate bonds for the economic benefits that are attributable to the asset will flow to the Group. corresponding discount period that is set based on the period up to the expected future benefit payment dates in every fiscal year. Intangible assets with finite useful lives are amortized using the straight-line method over their estimated useful lives. The estimated Asset and liability associated with post-employment benefit plans are recognized at the present value of defined benefit obligation useful lives of major intangible assets are as follows. less the fair value of plan assets. Service cost and net interest on the net defined benefit liability are recognized in profit or loss. Software: 5 years Gains and losses arising from remeasurement of defined benefit plans are recognized in full in other comprehensive income in the Development assets: 5 to 10 years fiscal year that these are incurred and immediately transferred to retained earnings. All past service costs are recognized in profit or loss Customer-related assets: 8 years when incurred. Amortization method, residual value and residual useful life are reviewed annually and adjusted where necessary. ii) Defined contribution plans Intangible assets are derecognized on disposal or when no future economic benefit is expected from their continued use or disposal. For defined contribution plans, the contribution payable to the plan is recognized as an expense when the related service is rendered by The gain or loss arising from derecognition of an intangible asset is recognized in profit or loss at the time of derecognition of the asset. the employees. (9) Leases 2) Short-term employee benefits 1) Lessee For short-term employee benefits, the undiscounted amount of benefits is recognized as an expense when the related service is rendered. The Group assesses whether an arrangement is or contains a lease at the inception of the arrangement. With respect to bonus payments and paid leave costs, the expected amount to be paid under relevant arrangements is recognized as Lease liability in a lease transaction is measured on the commencement date of the lease at the discounted present value of the lease liability when the Group has legal or constructive obligation to make such payments and a reliable estimate of the expected obligations payments over the lease term that are not yet paid. A right-of-use asset is initially measured at cost, consisting of the amount of the lease can be made. liability at the initial measurement, with adjustments made for initial direct costs, any lease payments made before or at the commencement date, etc., restoration obligations required under the lease agreement and other costs. The right-of-use asset is 3) Other long-term employee benefits depreciated systematically over the lease term. The lease term includes the periods covered by an option to extend or an option to The obligations with respect to long-term employee benefits other than post-employment benefits are measured at the estimated future terminate if the Group is reasonably certain to exercise the extension option or not exercise the termination option on the basis of past benefits that employees have earned in return for their services rendered in the current and prior fiscal years, discounted to the present practice relating to the period over which the underlying asset has been used and the economic reasons for doing so. value. Lease payments are allocated between finance expenses and repayable portion of the remaining balance of lease liability, to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the lease liability. Finance expenses are shown in the consolidated (12) Share-based payments statement of profit or loss separately from the depreciation charge for the right-of-use asset. The Company has adopted equity-settled share-based payment plans for its directors (excluding outside directors) and executive officers in For leases with the lease terms of 12 months or less, and leases for which the underlying assets are of low value, lease payments for the form of Board Incentive Plan Trust (hereafter, “BIP Trust”) and Employee Stock Ownership Plan Trust (hereafter, “ESOP Trust”). Shares of such leases are recognized as expenses on either a straight-line basis or some other systematic basis over the lease term. the Company held by the two trusts are recognized as treasury shares. Compensation for services received is measured with reference to the fair value of the Company’s shares as of the date of grant, and is recognized as an expense over the vesting period. The same amount is 2) Lessor recognized as an increase in equity. The Group classifies a lease as a finance lease if substantially all of the risk and rewards incidental to ownership of the underlying asset are transferred to the lessee. All other lease contracts are classified as operating leases. (13) Provisions In operating lease transactions, lease payments are recognized as revenue over the lease term using the straight-line method. Provisions are recognized when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, when it is probable that an (10) Impairment losses of non-financial assets outflow of economic resources would be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of such resources outflow. For non-financial assets, excluding inventories and deferred tax assets, an assessment is made at the end of each fiscal year as to whether When the impact of the time value of money is material, provisions are measured by the present value of estimated expenditure required to there is any indication that an asset may be impaired for each asset or cash-generating unit to which an asset is allocated. If such indication settle the obligation. The present value is measured by discounting using a pre-tax rate that reflects the time value of money and the specific exists, an impairment test is performed. risks of the liability. The increase in the provision reflecting the effects arising from the passage of time is recognized as finance expenses. NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 109 110 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (14) Shareholders’ equity (19) Earnings per share 1) Ordinary shares Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing profit for the year attributable to owners of the parent by the weighted-average number of With respect to equity instruments issued by the Company, the proceeds are recorded in capital stock and capital surplus, and costs ordinary shares outstanding during the fiscal year, adjusted for the number of treasury shares. directly attributable to issue of the shares (net of tax effects) are recognized as a deduction from capital surplus. 4. Segment Information 2) Treasury shares Treasury shares are measured at acquisition cost and recognized as a deduction from equity. Gains or losses from purchase, sale and (1) Summary of reportable segments disposal of treasury shares are not recognized. The difference between the carrying amount and the consideration received from disposal is The reportable segments of the Group are the business units for which the Group is able to obtain separate financial statements in order for recognized as capital surplus. the Board of Directors to conduct periodic reviews to determine allocation of management resources and evaluate business results. (15) Revenue The Group has its business units identified by product. Each business unit plans its comprehensive domestic and overseas strategies for its own products and conducts its own business activities. Therefore, the Group is composed of business units, identified by products The Group recognizes revenue based on the following five-step approach. organized in segments. Step 1: Identify the contract with the customer For the purpose of this reporting, several business segments are grouped together in consideration of the product nature, markets and Step 2: Identify the performance obligations in the contract other similarities, to present the two reportable segments of “Automotive components” and “Technical ceramics” consisting of Step 3: Determine the transaction price “Semiconductor” and “Ceramics” subsegments. Step 4: Allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract “Automotive components” is a segment that manufactures and sells primarily spark plugs, exhaust gas sensors, and other automotive Step 5: Recognize revenue when the entity satisfies a performance obligation components. The “Semiconductor” subsegment, which is the “Technical ceramics” segment, manufactures and sells semiconductors, IC The Group engages mainly in the sale of spark plugs, glow plugs, various automotive sensors, ceramic engine parts and other packages for various devices, multilayer circuit boards, and other products. The “Ceramics” subsegment manufactures and sells cutting automotive components, IC packages and other semiconductor components, and cutting tools for machine tools and ceramics products for tools, industrial ceramics and products for semiconductor manufacturing equipment. industrial use. Revenue from the sale of these goods is recognized when control of the goods is passed to the customer and performance obligation is satisfied. Revenue is measured at the amount of the consideration promised under the contract with the customer, less rights of (2) Segment revenue and results return, discounts, rebates, etc. Fiscal year ended March 31, 2019 (from April 1, 2018 to March 31, 2019) Millions of yen (16) Government grants Reportable segments A government grant is recognized at fair value when there is reasonable assurance that all the conditions attached to the grant are complied Technical ceramics Automotive Consolidated with and the grant will be received. components Semiconductor Ceramics Total Total Other (Note 1) Total Adjustments (Note 2) Government grant associated with revenue is recognized in profit or loss on a systematic basis over the period that the related costs for Revenue which it is intended to compensate are recognized. External customers ¥356,422 ¥17,089 ¥41,010 ¥58,100 ¥414,522 ¥10,586 ¥425,109 — ¥425,109 For government grant associated with assets, the asset’s carrying amount is measured by deducting the grant amount from the Inter-segment — — — — — — — — — acquisition cost of the asset. Total ¥356,422 ¥17,089 ¥41,010 ¥58,100 ¥414,522 ¥10,586 ¥425,109 — ¥425,109 Segment profit (loss) ¥ 59,296 ¥ (3,258) ¥ 3,069 ¥ (188) ¥ 59,108 ¥ (3,786) ¥ 55,321 — ¥ 55,321 (17) Finance income and finance expenses Finance income ¥ 3,351 Finance expenses ¥ (2,023) Finance income consists mainly of interest income, dividend income, and foreign exchange gain. Interest income is recognized when incurred Profit before income taxes ¥ 56,649 using the effective interest method. Dividend income is recognized when the Group’s right to receive payment is established. Other material items Finance expenses consist mainly of interest expense and foreign exchange loss. Interest expense is recognized when incurred using the Depreciation and amortization ¥ 21,582 ¥ 1,283 ¥ 2,904 ¥ 4,187 ¥25,769 ¥ 854 ¥ 26,624 — ¥ 26,624 effective interest method. Share of profit (loss) of investments accounted for using the equity method ¥ (69) — — — ¥ (69) ¥ 567 ¥ 497 — ¥ 497 (18) Income taxes Impairment losses — ¥ 1,675 — ¥ 1,675 ¥ 1,675 — ¥ 1,675 — ¥ 1,675 Income tax expense is stated as the total of current taxes and deferred taxes. Current taxes are measured at the expected amount of taxes payable to or recoverable from tax authorities, using tax rates enacted or Fiscal year ended March 31, 2020 (from April 1, 2019 to March 31, 2020) Millions of yen substantively established by the fiscal year-end date. These are recognized in profit or loss for the fiscal year, except for those related to Reportable segments business combinations and items that are recognized either in other comprehensive income or directly in equity. Technical ceramics Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the fiscal year when the asset is Automotive Consolidated components Semiconductor Ceramics Total Total Other (Note 1) Total Adjustments (Note 2) realized or the liability is settled, based on tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the end of the fiscal year. Deferred tax Revenue assets and deferred tax liabilities are measured based on temporary differences between their carrying amounts for accounting purposes and External customers ¥348,711 ¥16,517 ¥35,702 ¥52,220 ¥400,931 ¥25,141 ¥426,073 — ¥426,073 tax base amounts, and tax loss carryforwards and tax credit carryforwards. A deferred tax asset is recognized for deductible temporary Inter-segment — — — — — — — — — difference, tax loss carryforward and tax credit carryforward only to the extent it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against Total ¥348,711 ¥16,517 ¥35,702 ¥52,220 ¥400,931 ¥25,141 ¥426,073 — ¥426,073 which the deductible temporary difference, tax loss carryforward or tax credit carryforward can be utilized. Segment profit (loss) ¥ 51,757 ¥ 538 ¥ (1,014) ¥ (475) ¥ 51,281 ¥ (2,834) ¥ 48,447 — ¥ 48,447 The expected amount of taxable income in the future will fluctuate depending on the business performance at that time, so it may be Finance income ¥ 3,068 affected by uncertain future economic conditions such as the prolongation of COVID-19. When factors that have a significant effect on the Finance expenses ¥ (6,766) status of taxable income in the following years emerge, the amount recognized in the following fiscal years’ consolidated financial statements Profit before income taxes ¥ 44,749 may be materially affected. Other material items Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are not recognized for temporary difference arising from initial recognition of an asset or Depreciation and amortization ¥ 25,820 ¥ 1,045 ¥ 3,487 ¥ 4,533 ¥ 30,353 ¥ 1,598 ¥ 31,952 — ¥ 31,952 Share of profit of investments accounted liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and which affects neither accounting income nor taxable income at the time of for using the equity method ¥ 502 — — — ¥502 ¥632 ¥ 1,135 — ¥ 1,135 transaction. Furthermore, deferred tax liabilities are not recognized if the taxable temporary difference arises from initial recognition of goodwill. Impairment losses — — — — — — — — — Deferred tax liabilities are recognized for taxable temporary differences associated with investments in consolidated subsidiaries and associates. However, deferred tax liabilities are not recognized if it is possible to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences and probable that the temporary differences will not be reversed in the foreseeable future. Deferred tax assets arising from deductible temporary differences associated with investments in consolidated subsidiaries and associates are recognized only to the extent that it is probable that the temporary difference will reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable profit will be available. Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are offset only when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when these relate to income taxes levied on the same taxable entity by the same tax authority. NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 111 112 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Thousands of U.S. dollars 3) Date of acquisition Reportable segments December 20, 2018 Technical ceramics 4) Legal form of the business combination Automotive Consolidated components Semiconductor Ceramics Total Total Other (Note 1) Total Adjustments (Note 2) Share acquisition Revenue 5) Name of the acquired companies after the combination External customers $3,199,183 $151,532 $327,541 $479,083 $3,678,266 $230,651 $3,908,927 — $3,908,927 Chart BioMedical Limited and Chart BioMedical (Chengdu) Co., Ltd. were renamed as CAIRE Medical Limited and CAIRE Medical Inter-segment — — — — — — — — — Technology (Chengdu) Co., Ltd., respectively. Total $3,199,183 $151,532 $327,541 $479,083 $3,678,266 $230,651 $3,908,927 — $3,908,927 6) Ratio of voting rights acquired Segment profit (loss) $ 474,835 $ 4,936 $ (9,303) $ (4,358) $ 470,468 $ (26,000) $ 444,468 — $ 444,468 100% Finance income $ 28,147 7) Main grounds for deciding on the acquiring company Finance expenses $ (62,073) The Company acquired 100% of the voting rights through share acquisition with cash paid as consideration. Profit before income taxes $ 410,541 Other material items (2) Breakdown of fair value of assets acquired, liabilities assumed and consideration transferred at the date of acquisition Depreciation and amortization $ 236,881 $ 9,587 $ 31,991 $ 41,587 $ 278,468 $ 14,661 $ 293,138 — $ 293,138 Share of profit of investments accounted Millions of yen for using the equity method $ 4,606 — — — $ 4,606 $ 5,798 $ 10,413 — $ 10,413 Initial provisional Subsequent Adjusted fair Impairment losses — — — — — — — — — fair value adjustments value (Notes) 1. “Other” represents new businesses such as medical, environmental and energy-related products, as well as material sales and welfare program service, which are not included in Fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed reportable segments. 2. Segment profit (loss) is reconciled to operating profit in the consolidated financial statements. Cash and cash equivalents ¥ 2,271 ¥ — ¥ 2,271 Trade and other receivables 2,177 — 2,177 (3) Information on products and services Inventories 6,382 349 6,731 Disclosure is omitted as the same information is presented in “(1) Summary of reportable segments” and “(2) Segment revenue and results.” Property, plant and equipment 1,340 — 1,340 Intangible assets 1,697 3,021 4,719 (4) Information by geographical region as of and for the years ended March 31, 2019 and 2020 are as follows. Other assets 1,068 (2) 1,065 1) Revenue from external customers Trade and other payables (1,845) — (1,845) Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars Other liabilities (2,496) (918) (3,414) 2019 2020 2020 Fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed, net 10,596 2,449 13,046 Japan ¥ 89,401 ¥ 81,408 $ 746,862 Goodwill 5,517 (2,349) 3,168 United States 114,803 117,786 1,080,606 Total 16,113 100 16,214 Germany 83,485 87,503 802,780 Fair value of consideration transferred Other 137,419 139,375 1,278,670 Cash 16,113 — 16,113 Total ¥425,109 ¥426,073 $3,908,927 Amount payable (Note 5) — 100 100 (Note) Revenue is classified based on the location of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries. Total ¥16,113 ¥ 100 ¥16,214 (Notes) 1. Acquisition-related costs of ¥756 million arising from the business combination was recorded in “Selling, general and administrative expenses.” 2. Goodwill arising from the business combination represents future excess earnings power expected from future business development, and no part of it is tax deductible. 2) Noncurrent assets 3. Face value of trade and other receivables acquired was ¥2,313 million, and their fair value was ¥2,177 million. Estimated unrecoverable amount was ¥135 million. Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars 4. Purchase price allocation, which was provisionally made as of March 31, 2019, has been adjusted retrospectively as allocation was completed during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019. 5. This represents the amount that was payable as of March 31, 2019 resulting from price adjustments after share acquisition. Date of transition (April 1, 2018) 2019 2020 2020 (3) Cash flows arising from the acquisition Japan ¥173,820 ¥194,358 ¥204,395 $1,875,183 Millions of yen Asia 22,176 32,900 38,706 355,101 Cash and cash equivalents used for the acquisition ¥16,113 Other 26,932 36,603 34,297 314,651 Cash and cash equivalents held by the acquired companies at the time of acquisition (2,271) Total ¥222,929 ¥263,862 ¥277,399 $2,544,945 Total ¥13,842 (5) Information on principal customers (4) Effects on business performance This information is omitted because no single customer accounts for 10% or more of the revenue presented in the consolidated statement of Revenue generated after the date of acquisition was ¥4,863 million. Profit for the year is omitted because its effect is insignificant. Disclosure profit or loss. is omitted with respect to information on revenue and profit for the year assuming that the business combination took place at the beginning of the fiscal year as it is difficult to obtain accurate pre-acquisition financial information. 5. Business Combinations Fiscal year ended March 31, 2020 (from April 1, 2019 to March 31, 2020) No items to report. Fiscal year ended March 31, 2019 (from April 1, 2018 to March 31, 2019) (Business combination by acquisition) (1) Outline of the business combination 6. Cash and Cash Equivalents 1) Names and business description of the acquired companies The components of cash and cash equivalents as of the date of transition, March 31, 2019 and 2020 are as follows. The balance of “Cash Names of the acquired companies CAIRE Inc. and cash equivalents” in the consolidated statement of financial position at the date of transition, March 31, 2019 and 2020, agree with the Chart BioMedical Limited respective balances in the consolidated statement of cash flows. Chart BioMedical (Chengdu) Co., Ltd. Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars Description of business Manufacture and sale of oxygen concentrators 2) Main reasons for the business combination Date of transition (April 1, 2018) 2019 2020 2020 The Company plans to further expand the oxygen concentrator business in the medical field given its growth potential. By acquiring the businesses of the acquired companies that are engaged in the oxygen-related business on a broad front with focus on their core Cash and deposits ¥46,779 ¥39,704 ¥49,892 $457,725 business of oxygen concentrators and that possess a wide range of product groups, the Company aims to expand its business scope Short-term investments 40,700 34,700 36,200 332,110 and acquire new sales channels and customers. Total ¥87,479 ¥74,404 ¥86,092 $789,835 (Note) Cash and cash equivalents are classified as financial assets measured at amortized cost. NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 113 114 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 7. Trade and Other Receivables Thousands of U.S. dollars Machinery, Buildings and equipment and Construction in The components of trade and other receivables as of the date of transition, March 31, 2019 and 2020 are as follows. Land structures vehicles progress Other Total Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars March 31, 2019 $255,963 $654,826 $ 993,220 $ 235,092 $ 44,477 $2,183,596 Date of transition Acquisitions 0 2,147 7,459 411,385 1,725 422,734 (April 1, 2018) 2019 2020 2020 Acquisitions through business combinations — — — — — — Notes and accounts receivable — trade ¥92,639 ¥95,805 ¥87,940 $806,789 Depreciation (Note 1) — (55,404) (176,752) — (14,211) (246,376) Other accounts receivable 4,097 4,506 4,664 42,789 Impairment losses (Note 2) — — — — — — Total ¥96,736 ¥100,311 ¥92,604 $849,578 Sales or disposals (83) (1,440) (5,697) (9) (156) (7,404) (Note) Trade and other receivables are classified as financial assets measured at amortized cost. Foreign currency exchange differences (2,248) (9,092) (26,991) (7,330) (1706) (47,376) Other (Note 3) 807 97,073 343,734 (463,624) 19,670 (2,312) 8. Inventories March 31, 2020 $254,440 $688,119 $1,134,963 $ 175,505 $ 49,798 $2,302,844 The components of inventories as of the date of transition, March 31, 2019 and 2020 are as follows. (Notes) 1. Depreciation of property, plant and equipment is included in “Cost of sales” and “Selling, general and administrative expenses” in the consolidated statement of profit or loss. 2. Impairment losses of property, plant and equipment are included in “Cost of sales” and “Selling, general and administrative expenses” in the consolidated statement of profit or loss. Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars 3. Transfers from construction in progress account to each line item are included in “Other.” Date of transition 4. The amounts of government grants deducted to measure the carrying amounts of property, plant and equipment were ¥93 million and ¥1 million ($9 thousand) for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2019 and 2020, respectively. (April 1, 2018) 2019 2020 2020 Finished goods ¥51,260 ¥ 60,642 ¥ 59,997 $ 550,431 (2) Opening and closing balances of acquisition cost, accumulated depreciation (aggregated with accumulated impairment losses) and Work in progress 32,374 34,465 32,779 300,725 carrying amount Raw materials and supplies 14,111 20,627 23,943 219,661 Millions of yen Total ¥97,746 ¥115,735 ¥116,720 $1,070,826 Machinery, Buildings and equipment and Construction in The amounts of inventories recognized as expenses and included in cost of sales for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2019 and 2020 April 1, 2018 Land structures vehicles progress Other Total were approximately the same as “Cost of sales” amounts in the consolidated statement of profit or loss. Acquisition cost ¥27,830 ¥ 171,814 ¥ 293,572 ¥11,027 ¥ 14,775 ¥ 519,019 The amounts of write-downs of inventories that were included in cost of sales and recognized as expenses are as follows. Accumulated depreciation (43) (103,250) (198,505) — (10,709) (312,509) Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars Carrying amount ¥27,787 ¥ 68,563 ¥ 95,066 ¥11,027 ¥ 4,065 ¥ 206,510 2019 2020 2020 Amount of write-downs ¥590 ¥947 $8,688 Millions of yen Machinery, Buildings and equipment and Construction in 9. Property, Plant and Equipment March 31, 2019 Land structures vehicles progress Other Total (1) Changes Acquisition cost ¥27,943 ¥ 176,607 ¥ 312,051 ¥25,625 ¥ 16,432 ¥ 558,659 Accumulated depreciation (43) (105,230) (203,790) — (11,583) (320,647) Changes in the carrying amounts of property, plant and equipment are as follows. Carrying amount ¥27,900 ¥ 71,376 ¥ 108,261 ¥25,625 ¥ 4,848 ¥ 238,012 Millions of yen Machinery, Buildings and equipment and Construction in Millions of yen Land structures vehicles progress Other Total Machinery, April 1, 2018 ¥27,787 ¥68,563 ¥ 95,066 ¥ 11,027 ¥4,065 ¥206,510 Buildings and equipment and Construction in March 31, 2020 Land structures vehicles progress Other Total Acquisitions 41 75 645 55,958 182 56,902 Acquisition cost ¥27,777 ¥ 184,766 ¥ 334,502 ¥19,130 ¥ 17,830 ¥ 584,007 Acquisitions through business combinations 114 723 426 16 60 1,340 Accumulated depreciation (43) (109,761) (210,790) — (12,401) (332,996) Depreciation (Note 1) — (5,510) (16,095) — (1,224) (22,830) Carrying amount ¥27,734 ¥ 75,005 ¥ 123,711 ¥19,130 ¥ 5,428 ¥ 251,010 Impairment losses (Note 2) — — (1,675) — — (1,675) Sales or disposals (73) (282) (910) — (64) (1,330) Thousands of U.S. dollars Foreign currency exchange differences 30 91 (263) (52) (27) (221) Machinery, Other (Note 3) (0) 7,716 31,067 (41,324) 1,857 (683) Buildings and equipment and Construction in March 31, 2020 Land structures vehicles progress Other Total March 31, 2019 ¥27,900 ¥71,376 ¥108,261 ¥ 25,625 ¥4,848 ¥238,012 Acquisition cost $254,835 $ 1,695,101 $ 3,068,826 $175,505 $ 163,578 $ 5,357,862 Acquisitions 0 234 813 44,841 188 46,078 Accumulated depreciation (394) (1,006,982) (1,933,853) — (113,771) (3,055,009) Acquisitions through business combinations — — — — — — Carrying amount $254,440 $ 688,119 $ 1,134,963 $175,505 $ 49,798 $ 2,302,844 Depreciation (Note 1) — (6,039) (19,266) — (1,549) (26,855) Impairment losses (Note 2) — — — — — — (3) Commitments Sales or disposals (9) (157) (621) (1) (17) (807) Contractual commitments to acquire property, plant and equipment are as follows. Foreign currency exchange differences (245) (991) (2,942) (799) (186) (5,164) Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars Other (Note 3) 88 10,581 37,467 (50,535) 2,144 (252) Date of transition March 31, 2020 ¥27,734 ¥75,005 ¥123,711 ¥ 19,130 ¥ 5,428 ¥251,010 (April 1, 2018) 2019 2020 2020 Commitments to acquire property, plant and equipment ¥11,785 ¥17,755 ¥20,749 $190,358 NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 115 116 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 10. Goodwill and Intangible Assets Millions of yen Intangible assets (1) Changes March 31, 2020 Goodwill Software Development assets Other Total Changes in the carrying amounts of goodwill and intangible assets are as follows. Acquisition cost ¥3,369 ¥15,312 ¥ 3,637 ¥ 6,704 ¥ 29,023 Millions of yen Accumulated amortization — (9,058) (1,575) (2,615) (13,249) Intangible assets Carrying amount ¥3,369 ¥ 6,253 ¥ 2,061 ¥ 4,089 ¥ 15,774 Goodwill Software Development assets Other (Note 2) Total April 1, 2018 ¥ 307 ¥ 4,551 ¥1,836 ¥ 4 ¥ 6,699 Thousands of U.S. dollars Acquisitions — 2,676 — 8 2,684 Intangible assets March 31, 2020 Goodwill Software Development assets Other Total Additions through internal development — — 523 — 523 Acquisition cost $30,908 $140,477 $ 33,367 $ 61,505 $ 266,266 Acquisitions through business combinations 3,168 — — 4,719 7,887 Accumulated amortization — (83,101) (14,450) (23,991) (121,550) Amortization (Note 1) — (1,432) (363) (147) (1,943) Carrying amount $30,908 $ 57,367 $ 18,908 $ 37,514 $ 144,716 Sales or disposals — (6) — — (6) Foreign currency exchange differences (45) (27) — (68) (141) (3) Research and development costs Other — (42) — 16 (26) March 31, 2019 ¥3,430 ¥ 5,718 ¥1,996 ¥4,532 ¥15,678 Research and development costs for the years ended March 31, 2019 and 2020 are as follows. Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars Acquisitions — 2,495 — 11 2,506 Additions through internal development — — 424 — 424 2019 2020 2020 Research and development costs ¥5,252 ¥6,249 $57,330 Acquisitions through business combinations — — — — — Amortization (Note 1) — (1,791) (359) (599) (2,750) Sales or disposals — (8) — — (8) 11. Impairment Losses of Non-financial Assets Foreign currency exchange differences (60) (72) — (89) (222) Other — (88) — 234 145 The components of assets for which impairment losses are recognized, by asset class, are as follows. March 31, 2020 ¥3,369 ¥ 6,253 ¥2,061 ¥4,089 ¥15,774 Impairment losses are recorded in “Cost of sales” and “Selling, general and administrative expenses” in the consolidated statement of profit or loss. Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars Thousands of U.S. dollars Intangible assets 2019 2020 2020 Goodwill Software Development assets Other (Note 2) Total Property, plant and equipment March 31, 2019 $31,468 $ 52,459 $18,312 $41,578 $143,835 Machinery, equipment and vehicles ¥1,675 ¥— $— Acquisitions — 22,890 — 101 22,991 Total impairment losses ¥1,675 ¥— $— Additions through internal development — — 3,890 — 3,890 (1) Cash-generating units Acquisitions through business combinations — — — — — Amortization (Note 1) — (16,431) (3,294) (5,495) (25,229) The Group has its business assets grouped based on the segmentation in its management accounts. Idle assets are grouped individually. Sales or disposals — (73) — — (73) (2) Impairment losses Foreign currency exchange differences (550) (661) — (817) (2,037) Other — (807) — 2,147 1,330 For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019, impairment losses of ¥1,675 million were recognized in the semiconductor segment due to the decline of revenue projection and other factors, which resulted in the estimated value of discounted cash flow to fall below the carrying amounts of the assets. March 31, 2020 $30,908 $ 57,367 $18,908 $37,514 $144,716 The recoverable amount of the assets was measured at the value in use, which was estimated using a discount rate of 8.9% being (Notes) 1. Amortization of intangible assets is included in “Cost of sales” and “Selling, general and administrative expenses” in the consolidated statement of profit or loss. pre-tax weighted-average capital cost. 2. “Other” includes customer-related assets, etc. (3) Impairment tests of goodwill (2) Opening and closing balances of acquisition cost, accumulated amortization (aggregated with accumulated impairment losses) and carrying amount The Group performs impairment tests on goodwill each fiscal year and whenever there is any indication of impairment. Goodwill arising from business combinations is allocated on the acquisition date to the cash-generating unit or group of cash-generating Millions of yen units to which the future benefits from the business combination were expected to be generated. Intangible assets The carrying amount of goodwill by cash-generating unit as of the date of transition, March 31, 2019 and 2020 are as follows. April 1, 2018 Goodwill Software Development assets Other Total Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars Acquisition cost ¥307 ¥10,843 ¥ 2,860 ¥ 1,830 ¥15,842 Date of transition Accumulated amortization — (6,292) (1,024) (1,826) (9,142) (April 1, 2018) 2019 2020 2020 Carrying amount ¥307 ¥ 4,551 ¥ 1,836 ¥ 4 ¥ 6,699 NTK CERATEC CO., LTD. ¥307 ¥ 307 ¥ 307 $ 2,817 CAIRE Inc. — 3,123 3,062 28,092 Millions of yen Total ¥307 ¥3,430 ¥3,369 $30,908 Intangible assets April 1, 2019 Goodwill Software Development assets Other Total Goodwill that is of significance was a consequence of the Company’s acquisition of all the shares of CAIRE Inc., CAIRE Medical Limited and Acquisition cost ¥3,430 ¥13,336 ¥ 3,212 ¥ 6,588 ¥ 26,567 CAIRE Medical Technology (Chengdu) Co., Ltd. (hereafter, CAIRE) which, together with their five subsidiaries, became subsidiaries of the Company. In impairment tests, the recoverable amount is calculated based on the value in use. The value in use is calculated as estimated future cash Accumulated amortization — (7,617) (1,215) (2,055) (10,888) flows discounted to the present value, based on the three-year business plan approved by the Board of Directors and the growth rate. The Carrying amount ¥3,430 ¥ 5,718 ¥ 1,996 ¥ 4,532 ¥ 15,678 growth rate used in estimation for the period subsequent to the approved business plan is determined based on the average long-term growth rate of the markets to which the cash-generating units belong. The growth rates used to measure the value in use were 2.0% and 1.8% for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2019 and 2020, respectively. The discount rates used were 17.7% and 14.8% for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2019 and 2020, respectively. As a result of impairment tests, no impairment losses have been recognized with respect to the said goodwill. Even if the major assumptions used in the impairment tests were to change within a reasonable range, the Group deems the possibility to be low that the cash-generating unit would incur significant impairment losses. NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 117 118 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 12. Leases 14. Other Financial Assets Lessee The components of other financial assets as of the date of transition, March 31, 2019 and 2020 are as follows. The Group deems that an arrangement is or contains a lease if it conveys the right to control the use of a specific asset for a period of time in Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars exchange for consideration, and recognizes a right-of-use asset and a lease liability at the commencement date of the lease. Principal lease Date of transition transactions are in leases of office buildings, warehouse, vehicles and metal dies. (April 1, 2018) 2019 2020 2020 Lease transactions mentioned above contain contracts with an option for the lessee to extend or terminate the lease in order to notably Items classified as financial assets measured at amortized cost secure flexibility for the Group’s business offices. Bonds, etc. ¥19,206 ¥ — ¥ — $ — The option to extend the lease will be exercised if it is deemed necessary to do so by taking into consideration all relevant facts and Time deposits 9,567 9,088 5,462 50,110 circumstances which include the need for the underlying asset in the execution of business, the degree of difficulty in acquiring an alternative Other 440 607 1,078 9,890 asset, and conditions for exercising the option. The Group considers that it cannot be reasonably certain to exercise the option given the extreme difficulty to conclude, at the commencement of a lease, whether or not the option would be exercised in the future. Consequently, Items classified as financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss the period covered by the option is not included in the lease period, and lease payment for the said period is not included in measuring lease liability. The period covered by an extension option and lease payment associated with the period covered by the option are normally the Bonds, etc. ¥ — ¥ 554 ¥ 54 $ 495 same or similar to the initial contract period and lease payment. Derivative assets 693 — 50 459 The option to terminate the lease allows early termination primarily when a party so notifies the other party a certain period in advance of Items classified as financial assets measured at fair value the end date of the lease. through other comprehensive income The Group reassesses as necessary whether it can be reasonably certain to exercise an extension option or not to exercise a termination Stocks ¥60,096 ¥51,720 ¥42,809 $392,743 option. The financial impact of such reassessment for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2020 was insignificant. Total ¥90,004 ¥61,970 ¥49,454 $453,706 Contracts entered into by the Group that include variable lease payments or residual value guarantees and leases committed but not yet Of which, current assets ¥29,533 ¥ 9,423 ¥ 5,897 $ 54,101 commenced do not have materiality. Of which, noncurrent assets ¥60,470 ¥52,547 ¥43,557 $399,606 The components of right-of-use assets are as follows. Millions of yen Category of underlying assets 15. Trade and Other Payables Machinery, Buildings and equipment and Tools, furniture structures vehicles and fixtures Land Software Total The components of trade and other payables as of the date of transition, March 31, 2019 and 2020 are as follows. Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars April 1, 2018 ¥5,565 ¥1,479 ¥154 ¥356 ¥31 ¥7,587 Date of transition March 31, 2019 ¥6,741 ¥1,452 ¥200 ¥177 ¥20 ¥8,591 (April 1, 2018) 2019 2020 2020 March 31, 2020 ¥7,180 ¥1,970 ¥145 ¥240 ¥ 4 ¥9,541 Accounts payable ¥32,495 ¥34,839 ¥31,892 $292,587 Other payables 12,223 14,210 11,788 108,147 Thousands of U.S. dollars Total ¥44,719 ¥49,049 ¥43,681 $400,743 Category of underlying assets (Note) Trade and other payables are classified as financial liabilities measured at amortized cost. Machinery, Buildings and equipment and Tools, furniture structures vehicles and fixtures Land Software Total 16. Bonds and Borrowings March 31, 2020 $65,872 $18,073 $1,330 $2,202 $37 $87,532 The components of bonds and borrowings as of the date of transition, March 31, 2019 and 2020 are as follows. Changes in the amounts of right-of-use assets, lease-related expenses and cash outflows for the years ended March 31, 2019 and 2020 Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars are as follows. Date of transition Term of Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars (April 1, 2018) 2019 2020 2020 payment 2019 2020 2020 Short-term loans payable with interest rate of 2.80% ¥10,113 ¥ 27,587 ¥ 10,931 $ 100,284 — Depreciation of right-of-use assets Current portion of long-term loans payable with 9,693 8,879 4,353 39,936 — With buildings and structures as underlying assets ¥ 987 ¥1,270 $11,651 interest rate of 0.18% With machinery, equipment and vehicles as underlying assets 522 625 5,734 Current portion of bonds (Note 3) 24,987 — 29,971 274,963 — With tools, furniture and fixtures as underlying assets 126 138 1,266 Long-term loans payable (except portion due from 2021 within one year) with interest rate of 0.11% 20,211 22,351 47,633 437,000 to 2026 With land as underlying asset 175 186 1,706 Bonds (Note 3) 29,915 49,842 49,722 456,165 — With software as underlying asset 10 16 147 Total ¥94,920 ¥108,661 ¥142,663 $1,308,835 — Total depreciation of right-of-use assets ¥1,822 ¥2,237 $20,523 Of which, current liabilities ¥44,793 ¥ 36,466 ¥ 45,257 $ 415,202 — Interest on lease liabilities ¥ 96 ¥ 82 $ 752 Of which, noncurrent liabilities ¥50,126 ¥ 72,194 ¥ 97,406 $ 893,633 — Short-term lease expenses ¥ 755 ¥ 761 $ 6,982 (Notes) 1. Bonds and borrowings are classified as financial liabilities measured at amortized cost. Expenses associated with leases for which the underlying assets are of low value ¥ 11 ¥ 24 $ 220 2. Interest rates shown are weighted-average interest rates for the outstanding balance as at March 31, 2020. Variable lease payments not included in the measurement of lease liabilities — — — 3. The issuing terms of the bonds are as follows. Thousands of Income from subleases — — — Millions of yen U.S. dollars Date of transition Gains or losses arising from sale and leaseback transactions — — — Name of bond Date of issuance (April 1, 2018) 2019 2020 2020 Cash outflow related to lease ¥2,997 ¥3,423 $31,404 0.391% unsecured bonds due September 11, 2018 September 11, 2013 ¥25,000 ¥ — ¥ — $ — 0.296% unsecured bonds due October 27, 2020 October 27, 2015 30,000 30,000 30,000 275,229 Changes in the carrying amount of right-of-use assets ¥2,859 ¥3,650 $33,486 0.110% unsecured bonds due June 14, 2023 June 14, 2018 — 10,000 10,000 91,743 Maturity analysis of lease liabilities is presented in “Note 20: Financial instruments”. 0.370% unsecured bonds due June 14, 2028 June 14, 2018 — 10,000 10,000 91,743 0.110% unsecured bonds due June 20, 2024 June 20, 2019 — — 20,000 183,486 0.270% unsecured bonds due June 20, 2029 June 20, 2019 — — 10,000 91,743 13. Investments Accounted for Using the Equity Method Total — ¥55,000 ¥50,000 ¥80,000 $733,945 Investments accounted for using the equity method are all related to associates and individually immaterial. NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 119 120 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 17. Other Financial Liabilities Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars Date of transition The components of other financial liabilities as of the date of transition, March 31, 2019 and 2020 are as follows. (April 1, 2018) 2019 2020 2020 Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars Present value of funded retirement benefit obligations ¥48,212 ¥50,181 ¥49,870 $457,523 Date of transition Fair value of plan assets 42,305 42,923 41,904 384,440 (April 1, 2018) 2019 2020 2020 Subtotal ¥ 5,906 ¥ 7,258 ¥ 7,965 $ 73,073 Items classified as financial liabilities measured at amortized cost Present value of unfunded retirement benefit obligations 19,136 19,941 21,528 197,505 Other ¥ 143 ¥ 96 ¥ 5 $ 46 Net defined benefit liabilities or assets ¥25,043 ¥27,199 ¥29,494 $270,587 Lease liabilities 8,993 9,678 10,283 94,339 Items classified as financial liabilities measured at fair value Amounts recognized in the consolidated statement of through profit or loss financial position Derivative liabilities 3,286 1,670 876 8,037 Retirement benefit liability 25,043 27,199 29,494 270,587 Total ¥12,423 ¥11,445 ¥11,165 $102,431 Net amount ¥25,043 ¥27,199 ¥29,494 $270,587 Of which, current liabilities ¥ 2,096 ¥ 2,281 ¥ 3,126 $ 28,679 Of which, noncurrent liabilities ¥10,326 ¥ 9,164 ¥ 8,038 $ 73,743 2) Reconciliation of fair value of defined benefit obligations Changes in the present value of defined benefit obligations for the years ended March 31, 2019 and 2020 are as follows. Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars 18. Other Liabilities 2019 2020 2020 The components of other liabilities as of the date of transition, March 31, 2019 and 2020 are as follows. Opening balance of present value of defined benefit obligations (Note 1) ¥67,349 ¥70,122 $643,321 Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars Current service cost 3,443 3,572 32,771 Date of transition Interest expenses 593 544 4,991 (April 1, 2018) 2019 2020 2020 Remeasurement 1,368 276 2,532 Accrued expenses ¥13,684 ¥10,951 ¥10,552 $ 96,807 Actuarial gains and losses arising from changes in demographic assumptions (41) 118 1,083 Accrued bonuses 9,589 9,538 8,664 79,486 Actuarial gains and losses arising from changes in financial assumptions 1,023 290 2,661 Accrued paid leave 7,488 8,008 8,134 74,624 Actuarial differences arising from revisions to results 386 (133) (1,220) Other 6,117 8,059 7,016 64,367 Past service cost 7 36 330 Total ¥36,880 ¥36,557 ¥34,367 $315,294 Benefits paid (2,799) (3,065) (28,119) Of which, current liabilities ¥34,069 ¥33,332 ¥31,176 $286,018 Other (Note 2) 160 (87) (798) Of which, noncurrent liabilities ¥ 2,811 ¥ 3,225 ¥ 3,191 $ 29,275 Closing balance of present value of defined benefit obligations (Note 1) ¥70,122 ¥71,398 $655,028 (Notes) 1 The weighted-average durations of defined benefit plans at the date of transition, in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019 and in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2020 were 15.5 years, 15.2 years and 14.5 years, respectively. 19. Employee Benefits 2 “Other” includes translation differences of defined benefit obligations of overseas consolidated subsidiaries. The Company and certain consolidated subsidiaries have a defined benefit plan and a lump-sum retirement benefit plan, while certain 3) Reconciliation of the fair value of plan assets overseas consolidated subsidiaries have a defined contribution plan. Retirement benefits trust is established on the Company’s defined Changes in the fair value of plan assets for the years ended March 31, 2019 and 2020 are as follows. benefit plan. In the defined benefit plan, the amount of benefits is calculated based on the accumulated number of points earned by Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars employees each year during their period of service, the number of their service years and other conditions. 2019 2020 2020 The Company and certain consolidated subsidiaries have instituted a contract-type pension plan based on pension provision. The Opening balance of fair value of plan assets ¥42,305 ¥42,923 $393,789 Company and certain consolidated subsidiaries have established corporate pension provisions which, by agreement with their employees, Interest income 373 325 2,982 stipulate the contents of the pension plan such as eligibility requirements, contents and method of payments, and burden of contributions. Remeasurement 244 (535) (4,908) The pension provisions have obtained the approval of the Minister of Health, Labour and Welfare. Administration of the pension plans, including payment of contributions and management of accumulated funds, is undertaken by insurance companies, trust banks and other Return on plan assets (excluding interest income) 244 (535) (4,908) institutions with which contracts have been signed. In addition to the administration and management of pension assets, these companies Contributions from the employer 1,823 1,129 10,358 also perform actuarial calculation and payments of annual and lump-sum benefits. Benefits paid (1,937) (1,915) (17,569) The Company and certain consolidated subsidiaries are required to comply with the dispositions and provisions issued by the Minister of Other (Note) 113 (23) (211) Health, Labour and Welfare pursuant to laws and regulations, and to faithfully perform their duties for the benefit of plan participants, etc. Closing balance of fair value of plan assets ¥42,923 ¥41,904 $384,440 They are prohibited from entering into any contract for administration and management of the assets for the purpose of pursuing their own (Note) “Other” includes translation differences of defined benefit assets of overseas consolidated subsidiaries. interests or the interests of third parties other than the participants, and from giving instructions for specific methods concerning management of the pension reserves. The Group plans to contribute ¥2,664 million ($24,440 thousands) in the fiscal year ending March 31, 2021. (1) Defined benefit plan 1) Reconciliation of defined benefit obligations and plan assets The relationships between defined benefit obligations and plan assets, and net defined benefit liabilities and assets recorded in the consolidated statements of financial position are as follows. NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 121 122 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 4) Components of plan assets by category currency options for trade receivables denominated in foreign currencies, and interest rate and currency swap arrangements as derivative The fair value of plan assets by category as of the date of transition, March 31, 2019 and 2020 are as follows. transactions for borrowings denominated in foreign currencies, in conformity with internal control regulations within the scope of actual demand. Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars Date of transition FY 2019 Currency sensitivity analysis (April 1, 2018) 2019 2020 (March 31, 2020) The following table represents the Group’s sensitivity analysis and shows the impact that a 1% change in the rate of Japanese yen against the Quoted market prices Quoted market prices Quoted market prices Quoted market prices relevant currencies would have on profit or loss and equity. The analysis does not include the impact of translation, from functional currency in active markets Total in active markets Total in active markets Total in active markets Total into yen, of financial instruments as well as assets and liabilities, revenue and expenses of foreign operations. Furthermore, it assumes that Yes No Yes No Yes No Yes No other variable factors (balances, interest rates, etc.) are constant. Shares ¥ 7,466 ¥ — ¥ 7,466 ¥ 5,286 ¥ — ¥ 5,286 ¥ 5,796 ¥ — ¥ 5,796 $ 53,174 $ — $ 53,174 Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars Bonds 16,504 — 16,504 16,461 — 16,461 15,654 — 15,654 143,615 — 143,615 2019 2020 2020 General account — 11,182 11,182 — 11,333 11,333 — 11,614 11,614 — 106,550 106,550 U.S. dollar ¥203 ¥113 $1,037 Alternatives (Note) — 2,198 2,198 — 2,776 2,776 — 3,397 3,397 — 31,165 31,165 Euro ¥ 39 ¥ 46 $ 422 Other 3,020 1,934 4,954 3,592 3,473 7,066 3,683 1,758 5,441 33,789 16,128 49,917 Chinese yuan ¥ 76 ¥102 $ 936 Total ¥26,990 ¥15,315 ¥42,305 ¥25,340 ¥17,582 ¥42,923 ¥25,134 ¥16,770 ¥41,904 $230,587 $153,853 $384,440 Thai baht ¥ 98 ¥171 $1,569 (Note) Alternatives represent primarily investments in private debt and infrastructure funds. Management of plan assets aims to secure total return in the long term within the acceptable range of risks, which is necessary to ensure 2) Interest rate fluctuation risk stable payments of pension benefits, lump-sum benefits and other payments in the future. The Group is exposed to interest rate fluctuation risk as it has foreign currency-denominated borrowings with floating interest rates. In To this end, the Group seeks to maintain a portfolio of assets that represents optimal asset allocation in the years ahead with due order to avoid interest rate fluctuation risks, the Group uses interest rate and currency swap arrangements as derivative transactions in consideration to expected rate of return of investment assets, risks and other factors. conformity with its internal control regulations within the scope of actual demand. Through these measures, the Group deems its exposure to interest rate fluctuation risk to be limited and the impact of interest rate 5) Significant actuarial assumption fluctuations to be insignificant. Significant actuarial assumption used in the calculation is as follows. Percentage 3) Market price fluctuation risk Date of transition (April 1, 2018) FY 2018 (March 31, 2019) FY 2019 (March 31, 2020) The Group is exposed to the risk of fluctuations in the stock prices of equity instruments (stocks). Equity instruments that the Group holds are for the purpose of maintaining and strengthening continuous and stable relationships with its customers and other counterparties. No Discount rate 0.7 0.6 0.6 equity instruments are held for trading purposes. The Group regularly checks the fair value of the stocks and the financial status of the In addition to the above, actuarial assumptions include future salary increases, the mortality rate and the expected retirement rate. issuing companies. 6) Sensitivity analysis Price sensitivity analysis The table below shows the effect of a 0.5% change in the discount rate used in actuarial calculations on the present value of defined The following table represents the Group’s sensitivity analysis showing the impact on equity that would result from a 1% change in the market benefit obligations. This analysis assumes that all other assumptions remain constant. In actuality, however, the sensitivity analysis may be prices of equity instruments that the Group holds as of the end of the fiscal year. The analysis assumes that other variable factors are constant. affected by changes in other assumptions. Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars 2019 2020 2020 Date of transition (April 1, 2018) 2019 2020 2020 Equity ¥328 ¥264 $2,422 0.5% increase in the discount rate ¥(4,469) ¥(4,726) ¥(5,127) $(47,037) 0.5% decrease in the discount rate ¥ 4,968 ¥ 5,213 ¥ 5,643 $ 51,771 4) Credit risk Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty (which includes financial institutions, etc.) fails to meet its (2) Defined contribution plan contractual obligations due to deterioration in credit risk, bankruptcy or other causes. The Group manages its credit risk by setting credit limits on its counterparties in accordance with its credit management rules, etc. The amount recognized as an expense in relation to the defined contribution plan was ¥366 million and ¥631 million ($5,789 thousand) for the For derivative transactions, the Group only deals with financial institutions, etc. with high credit rating in order to reduce counterparty fiscal years ended March 31, 2019 and 2020, respectively. risks. Therefore, the Group believes that the effect of a credit risk is limited. (3) Employee benefit cost The Group has neither significant credit risk exposure to any particular customer, nor excessive concentration of credit risk that requires special management. In the consolidated statement of profit or loss, the total of employee benefit cost included in “Cost of sales” and “Selling, general and The carrying amount, after impairment losses, of financial assets presented in the consolidated financial statements represents the administrative expenses” was ¥112,739 million and ¥111,078 million ($1,019,064 thousand) for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2019 and maximum exposure of the Group’s credit risk, without considering the appraised value of the related collateral. 2020, respectively. (i) Credit risk management practices 20. Financial Instruments The Group determines whether credit risk has increased significantly with reference to such information as internal and external ratings. Objective evidence showing significant increase in credit risk includes default or delinquency, and indications of borrower insolvency. (1) Capital risk management policy The Group assesses a financial asset to be in default if the borrower has, or is highly probable to have, significant financial difficulty The Group’s capital management aims to achieve sustainable growth and maximization of corporate value while maintaining a balance and its credit to be impaired when bankruptcy or other reorganization proceedings have commenced with respect to the borrower. between financial soundness and capital efficiency. For trade receivables, allowance for doubtful accounts is always measured at an amount equal to the lifetime expected credit losses. To achieve financial soundness, the Group strives to maintain solid financial strength and high credit rating to ensure low-cost financing. Expected credit losses are measured by multiplying the amount of receivables by the provision rate that is based on historical credit loss rate. To achieve capital efficiency, the Group strives to make effective use of financing while maintaining a balance with financial soundness, For receivables other than trade receivables, etc., allowance for doubtful accounts is in principle recorded at an amount equal to the 12-month and thereby reduce overall cost of capital. expected credit losses. However, if the credit risk has increased significantly since the initial recognition, allowance for doubtful accounts is The Group is not subject to any significant capital restrictions. recorded at an amount equal to the lifetime expected credit losses. If it is assessed that the credit risk has not increased significantly, the expected credit loss for such receivables is calculated by multiplying the amount of receivables by the provision rate that is based on historical (2) Financial Risk Management credit loss rate. With respect to assets whose credit risk has been assessed to have increased significantly, and receivables, etc. that are The Group is exposed to financial risks in the course of conducting its business activities and performs risk management to mitigate such risks. treated as credit-impaired financial assets, the expected credit losses are measured by taking into account such factors as the debtor’s Financial risks mainly include currency fluctuation risk, interest rate fluctuation risk, market price fluctuation risk, credit risk and liquidity risk. financial condition, estimated realizable collateral value, compensation by guarantee deposits and repayment schedule. 1) Currency fluctuation risk When there are no reasonable expectations that a financial asset will be recoverable in its entirety or a portion thereof, the carrying As the Group is engaged in operations globally, it is exposed to risks from currency fluctuations arising from transactions denominated in amount of the financial asset is directly written off. currencies other than its functional currency. In order to avoid such currency risks, the Group uses forward exchange contracts and interest NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 123 124 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (ii) Changes in allowance for doubtful accounts and underlying assets Other payables and other financial assets Changes in allowance for doubtful accounts are as follows. Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars Date of transition Allowance for doubtful accounts (April 1, 2018) 2019 2020 2020 Millions of yen Measured at an amount equal to 12-month expected Measured at lifetime expected credit losses credit losses Measured at 12-month Financial assets that Credit-impaired Not past due ¥4,511 ¥5,069 ¥5,718 $52,459 expected credit losses are not credit impaired financial assets Trade receivables Total Past due 13 31 12 110 Balance as at April 1, 2018 ¥— ¥119 ¥— ¥ 424 ¥ 543 Total ¥4,525 ¥5,100 ¥5,730 $52,569 Increase during the fiscal year — — — 38 38 Decrease during the fiscal year — — — (86) (86) Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars Other — — — 120 120 Date of transition Balance as of March 31, 2019 ¥— ¥119 ¥— ¥ 496 ¥ 616 (April 1, 2018) 2019 2020 2020 Increase during the fiscal year — — — 98 98 Lifetime expected credit losses Decrease during the fiscal year — — — (140) (140) (financial assets that are not credit impaired) Other — — — (28) (28) Not past due ¥132 ¥132 ¥132 $1,211 Balance as at March 31, 2020 ¥— ¥119 ¥— ¥ 425 ¥ 545 Past due — — — — Total ¥132 ¥132 ¥132 $1,211 Thousands of U.S. dollars Measured at lifetime expected credit losses Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars Measured at 12-month Financial assets that Credit-impaired expected credit losses are not credit impaired financial assets Trade receivables Total Date of transition (April 1, 2018) 2019 2020 2020 Balance as of March 31, 2019 $— $1,092 $— $ 4,550 $ 5,651 Lifetime expected credit losses Increase during the fiscal year — — — 899 899 (credit-impaired financial assets) Decrease during the fiscal year — — — (1,284) (1,284) Not past due ¥— ¥— ¥— $— Other — — — (257) (257) Past due — — — — Balance as at March 31, 2020 $— $1,092 $— $ 3,899 $ 5,000 Total ¥— ¥— ¥— $— (Note) Of financial assets that are measured at amortized cost and debt instrument assets that are measured at fair value through other comprehensive income, financial instruments with clearly The aggregate carrying amounts of financial assets held are as follows. low credit risk, such as time deposits that are held with major financial institutions, are not included in the above chart as no expected credit losses are recorded. Carrying amounts 5) Liquidity risk Millions of yen Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will encounter difficulty in meeting its repayment obligations and not be able to pay on the payment Measured at lifetime expected credit losses due date of its financial liabilities. Measured at 12-month Financial assets that Credit-impaired Trade and other payables, borrowings and other financial liabilities are exposed to liquidity risk. The Group manages these risks expected credit losses are not credit impaired financial assets Trade receivables Total through measures that include development and revisions of finance plans as appropriate, and establishment of committed lines of credit Date of transition (April 1, 2018) ¥33,299 ¥132 ¥— ¥93,063 ¥126,494 with financial institutions. FY 2018 (March 31, 2019) ¥14,189 ¥132 ¥— ¥96,301 ¥110,623 FY 2019 (March 31, 2020) ¥11,193 ¥132 ¥— ¥88,365 ¥ 99,691 Maturity analysis The balance of major financial liabilities (including derivatives) by contractual maturities are as follows. Thousands of U.S. dollars Measured at lifetime expected credit losses Millions of yen Measured at 12-month Financial assets that Credit-impaired Later than 1 Later than 2 Later than 3 Later than 4 expected credit losses are not credit impaired financial assets Trade receivables Total Carrying Contractual Not later than year, not later years, not later years, not later years, not later Later than Date of transition (April 1, 2018) amount cash flows 1 year than 2 years than 3 years than 4 years than 5 years 5 years FY 2019 (March 31, 2020) $102,688 $1,211 $— $810,688 $914,596 Non-derivative financial liabilities Trade and other payables ¥ 44,719 ¥ 44,719 ¥44,719 ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — (iii) Risk profile Borrowings ¥ 40,017 ¥ 40,139 ¥19,858 ¥ 8,530 ¥ 4,265 ¥7,486 ¥ — ¥ — The components of credit risk profile based on due date as of the date of transition, March 31, 2019 and 2020 are as follows. Bonds ¥ 54,902 ¥ 55,315 ¥25,137 ¥ 88 ¥30,088 — ¥ — ¥ — Lease liabilities ¥ 8,993 ¥ 9,979 ¥ 2,195 ¥ 2,016 ¥ 1,802 ¥1,221 ¥909 ¥1,833 Trade receivables Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars Derivative financial liabilities Date of transition Forward exchange contracts, (April 1, 2018) 2019 2020 2020 currency options ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — Lifetime expected credit losses Interest rate and currency Not past due ¥90,045 ¥90,709 ¥78,587 $720,982 swaps ¥ 3,286 ¥ 3,286 ¥ — ¥ — ¥ 2,906 ¥ 379 ¥ — ¥ — Up to 30 days past due 1,746 3,421 5,912 54,239 Total ¥151,919 ¥153,440 ¥91,911 ¥10,635 ¥39,063 ¥9,086 ¥909 ¥1,833 Over 30 days past due 232 809 2,277 20,890 Over 60 days past due 178 422 488 4,477 Over 90 days past due 859 940 1,098 10,073 Total ¥93,063 ¥96,301 ¥88,365 $810,688 NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 125 126 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Millions of yen The fair values of derivative and similar transactions are measured based on observable market inputs such as interest rates and Later than 1 Later than 2 Later than 3 Later than 4 foreign exchange rates obtained from financial institutions with which the Group has relationship, etc. These are classified as Level 2 as Carrying Contractual Not later than year, not later years, not later years, not later years, not later Later than their fair values are measured using observable market data. March 31, 2019 amount cash flows 1 year than 2 years than 3 years than 4 years than 5 years 5 years (Bonds and borrowings) Non-derivative financial liabilities The fair values of bonds are measured by the quotes obtained from financial institutions with which the Group has a relationship. Trade and other payables ¥ 49,049 ¥ 49,049 ¥49,049 ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — The fair values of short-term borrowings are based on their carrying amounts as the fair values are considered to approximate their Borrowings ¥ 58,818 ¥ 58,886 ¥36,497 ¥ 4,454 ¥7,822 ¥ 3 ¥ 103 ¥10,006 carrying amounts. Bonds ¥ 49,842 ¥ 50,578 ¥ 136 ¥30,136 ¥ 48 ¥ 48 ¥10,042 ¥10,166 The fair values of long-term borrowings are measured by the sum of the principal and interest discounted by an interest rate Lease liabilities ¥ 9,678 ¥ 10,244 ¥ 2,394 ¥ 2,229 ¥1,522 ¥1,135 ¥ 658 ¥2,303 applicable to new borrowings under the same conditions. Both bonds and borrowings use observable market inputs to measure their fair values. These are all classified as Level 2. Derivative financial liabilities Forward exchange contracts, (ii) Fair value hierarchy currency options ¥ 55 ¥ 55 ¥ 55 ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — The fair value hierarchy in the measurement of financial instruments categorizes the inputs as follows. Interest rate and currency Level 1: Fair value measured by quoted prices in active markets swaps ¥ 1,614 ¥ 1,614 ¥ — ¥ 1,559 ¥ 54 ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — Level 2: Fair value measured by inputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1 that are observable, either directly or indirectly Total ¥169,059 ¥170,429 ¥88,134 ¥38,380 ¥9,447 ¥1,187 ¥10,804 ¥22,475 Level 3: Fair value measured using valuation techniques that include unobservable input Millions of yen Major financial instruments measured at amortized cost Later than 1 Later than 2 Later than 3 Later than 4 Millions of yen Carrying Contractual Not later than year, not later years, not later years, not later years, not later Later than Fair value March 31, 2020 amount cash flows 1 year than 2 years than 3 years than 4 years than 5 years 5 years Date of transition (April 1, 2018) Carrying amount Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Non-derivative financial liabilities Liabilities Trade and other payables ¥ 43,681 ¥ 43,681 ¥43,681 ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — Bonds ¥54,902 ¥— ¥55,143 ¥— ¥55,143 Borrowings ¥ 62,919 ¥ 63,443 ¥15,351 ¥7,725 ¥ 59 ¥ 159 ¥ 59 ¥40,088 Borrowings 29,904 — 29,978 — 29,978 Bonds ¥ 79,743 ¥ 80,897 ¥30,185 ¥ 97 ¥ 97 ¥10,091 ¥20,075 ¥20,251 Total ¥84,807 ¥— ¥85,122 ¥— ¥85,122 Lease liabilities ¥ 10,283 ¥ 10,786 ¥ 2,624 ¥1,865 ¥1,500 ¥ 1,095 ¥ 696 ¥ 3,004 Derivative financial liabilities Millions of yen Interest rate and currency Fair value swaps ¥ 876 ¥ 876 ¥ 602 ¥ 273 ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — March 31, 2019 Carrying amount Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Total ¥197,504 ¥199,585 ¥92,445 ¥9,962 ¥1,656 ¥11,346 ¥20,831 ¥63,343 Liabilities Bonds ¥49,842 ¥— ¥50,196 ¥— ¥50,196 Thousands of U.S. dollars Borrowings 31,230 — 31,290 — 31,290 Later than 1 Later than 2 Later than 3 Later than 4 Carrying Contractual Not later than year, not later years, not later years, not later years, not later Later than Total ¥81,073 ¥— ¥81,486 ¥— ¥81,486 March 31, 2020 amount cash flows 1 year than 2 years than 3 years than 4 years than 5 years 5 years Non-derivative financial liabilities Millions of yen Trade and other payables $ 400,743 $ 400,743 $400,743 $ — $ — $ — $ — $ — Fair value Borrowings $ 577,239 $ 582,046 $140,835 $70,872 $ 541 $ 1,459 $ 541 $367,780 March 31, 2020 Carrying amount Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Bonds $ 731,587 $ 741,257 $276,927 $ 890 $ 890 $ 92,578 $184,174 $185,789 Liabilities Lease liabilities $ 94,339 $ 98,954 $ 24,073 $17,110 $13,761 $ 10,046 $ 6,385 $ 27,560 Bonds ¥ 79,743 ¥— ¥ 79,804 ¥— ¥ 79,804 Derivative financial liabilities Borrowings 51,987 — 51,992 — 51,992 Interest rate and currency Total ¥131,731 ¥— ¥131,796 ¥— ¥131,796 swaps $ 8,037 $ 8,037 $ 5,523 $ 2,505 $ — $ — $ — $ — Total $1,811,963 $1,831,055 $848,119 $91,394 $15,193 $104,092 $191,110 $581,128 Thousands of U.S. dollars Fair value (3) Fair value March 31, 2020 Carrying amount Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Liabilities (i) Fair value measurement methodology Bonds $731,587 $— $732,147 $— $732,147 The fair values of financial instruments are measured in the following manner. Borrowings 476,945 — 476,991 — 476,991 (Cash and cash equivalents, trade and other receivables, other financial assets, trade and other payables, other financial liabilities) For instruments that are settled in the short term, the carrying amount is a reasonable approximation of fair value. For other Total $1,208,541 $— $1,209,138 $— $1,209,138 instruments, the present value of future cash flows, discounted by an interest rate that takes into account remaining maturity and credit (Notes) 1. Bonds and borrowings include balance of instruments to be redeemed or repaid within one year. 2. Short-term financial assets and financial liabilities are not included in the above table as their carrying amounts approximate their fair values. risk, is mainly used to measure the fair value. The above are classified as Level 2 of the fair value measurement. (Other financial assets, other financial liabilities) The fair values of listed stocks are based on their market prices at the end of the fiscal year. These are classified as Level 1. The fair values of bonds and similar instruments are measured by referencing quotes obtained from financial institutions with which the Group has a relationship, using reasonable valuation methods based on available information. These are classified as Level 2 or 3. The fair values of unlisted stocks, etc. are measured primarily by the net asset value method. These are classified as Level 3. Measurement of the fair value for financial instruments classified as Level 3 is performed in accordance with relevant internal regulations. In the measurement of the fair value, the Group uses the valuation method and inputs that most appropriately reflect the nature, characteristics and risks of the financial instrument being measured. Results of the fair value measurement are reviewed by the senior management. For financial instruments classified as Level 3, no significant change in the fair value will result even if unobservable inputs were changed to reasonably possible alternative assumptions. NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 127 128 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Financial instruments that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis Thousands of U.S. dollars Millions of yen Fair value Fair value Date of transition (April 1, 2020) Carrying amount Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Date of transition (April 1, 2018) Carrying amount Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Assets Assets Financial assets measured at fair value Financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income: through other comprehensive income: Stocks $392,743 $349,972 $ — $42,761 $392,743 Stocks ¥60,096 ¥56,961 ¥ — ¥3,135 ¥60,096 Financial assets measured at fair value Financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss: through profit or loss: Bonds, etc. 495 — — 495 495 Derivative assets 693 — 693 — 693 Derivative assets 459 — 459 — 459 Total ¥60,790 ¥56,961 ¥ 693 ¥3,135 ¥60,790 Total $393,697 $349,972 $ 459 $43,257 $393,697 Liabilities Liabilities Financial liabilities measured at fair value Financial liabilities measured at fair value through profit or loss: through profit or loss: Derivative liabilities ¥ 3,286 ¥ — ¥3,286 ¥ — ¥ 3,286 Derivative liabilities $ 8,037 $ — $8,037 $ — $ 8,037 Total ¥ 3,286 ¥ — ¥3,286 ¥ — ¥ 3,286 Total $ 8,037 $ — $8,037 $ — $ 8,037 Millions of yen Reconciliation from the opening balances to the closing balances of financial instruments classified as Level 3 are as follows. Fair value Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars Date of transition (April 1, 2019) Carrying amount Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total 2019 2020 2020 Assets Opening balance ¥3,135 ¥ 4,983 $ 45,716 Financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income: Total gains (losses) 180 (1,937) (17,771) Stocks ¥51,720 ¥47,291 ¥ — ¥4,428 ¥51,720 Profit (loss) (Note 1) 11 (11) (101) Financial assets measured at fair value Other comprehensive income (Note 2) 168 (1,926) (17,670) through profit or loss: Acquisitions 1,698 1,665 15,275 Bonds, etc. 554 — — 554 554 Disposals (2) — — Derivative assets — — — — — Other (28) 4 37 Total ¥52,275 ¥47,291 ¥ — ¥4,983 ¥52,275 Closing balance ¥4,983 ¥ 4,715 $ 43,257 Liabilities (Notes) 1. Gains and losses included in profit or loss relate to financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss as of the end of the fiscal year. These gains and losses are presented in “Finance income” and “Finance expenses” in the consolidated statement of profit or loss. Financial liabilities measured at fair value 2. Gains and losses included in other comprehensive income relate to financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income as of the end of the fiscal year. These through profit or loss: gains and losses are presented in “Financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income” in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income. Derivative liabilities ¥ 1,670 ¥ — ¥1,670 ¥ — ¥ 1,670 (4) Equity instruments Total ¥ 1,670 ¥ — ¥1,670 ¥ — ¥ 1,670 For investments in equity instruments that are made with the objective of maintaining and strengthening business relationships, the Group Millions of yen classifies such equity instruments as financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income, in view of the objective of Fair value holding these instruments. Of these financial assets, the names and fair values of the major stocks that are traded in an active market are as follows. Date of transition (April 1, 2020) Carrying amount Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars Assets Date of transition Financial assets measured at fair value Stock name (April 1, 2018) 2019 2020 2020 through other comprehensive income: Toyota Motor Corporation ¥11,820 ¥11,235 ¥11,259 $103,294 Stocks ¥42,809 ¥38,147 ¥ — ¥4,661 ¥42,809 TOTO Ltd. 14,291 11,960 9,158 84,018 Financial assets measured at fair value Honda Motor Co., Ltd. 11,292 9,240 7,518 68,972 through profit or loss: Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc. 7,204 5,068 3,714 34,073 Bonds, etc. 54 — — 54 54 NGK INSULATORS, LTD. 1,774 1,556 1,371 12,578 Derivative assets 50 — 50 — 50 Yamaha Motor Co., Ltd. 1,993 1,361 819 7,514 Total ¥42,913 ¥38,147 ¥ 50 ¥4,715 ¥42,913 Noritake Co., Ltd. 968 1,113 722 6,624 Liabilities Nissan Motor Co., Ltd. 1,744 1,435 563 5,165 Financial liabilities measured at fair value through profit or loss: Suzuki Motor Corporation 1,022 874 461 4,229 Derivative liabilities ¥ 876 ¥ — ¥876 ¥ — ¥ 876 Rinnai Corporation 574 451 447 4,101 Total ¥ 876 ¥ — ¥876 ¥ — ¥ 876 (Note) Financial assets that do not have an active market are primarily investments in new businesses such as environment/energy, medical, and next-generation automobiles. The fair value of investments in new businesses as of the date of transition, March 31, 2019 and March 31, 2020 were ¥1,965 million, ¥3,082 million and ¥3,078 million ($28,239 thousand), respectively. Equity instruments are sold as appropriate, paying attention to market trends, if the Group judges it is no longer appropriate to continue holding the instrument upon assessment of the effects from the point of view of the rationality of holding the stocks and enhancement of corporate value, based on a comparison of capital cost with medium-term to long-term risk and return, and other factors. The fair value of stocks sold during the fiscal year, as of the date of sale, and cumulative gains or losses recognized in other components of equity (before tax effects) are as follows. NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 129 130 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars 21. Equity and Other Components of Equity 2019 2020 2020 (1) Capital stock and capital surplus Fair value at the time of sale ¥1,425 ¥363 $3,330 Cumulative gains (before tax effects) ¥ 960 ¥118 $1,083 The Companies Act of Japan (hereafter, the “Act”) stipulates that one-half or more of the proceeds from share issue shall be credited to capital stock and the remainder shall be credited to capital reserve included in capital surplus. The Act also stipulates that, by resolution of a (5) Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities general meeting of shareholders, capital reserve may be transferred to capital stock. Changes in the number of authorized shares, number of issued shares and balance of capital stock, etc. are as follows. For some of the financial assets and financial liabilities, the Group has a legally enforceable right to set off the recognized amounts of a financial Number of authorized Number of issued Capital stock Capital surplus asset and financial liability, and has the intention to settle on a net basis or realize the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. Accordingly, shares (shares) shares (shares) (Millions of yen) (Millions of yen) these financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount is presented in the consolidated statement of financial position. Date of transition (April 1, 2018) 390,000,000 212,544,820 ¥47,869 ¥54,756 Of financial assets and financial liabilities recognized to the same counterparty, the breakdown of the amount offset and the amount Changes during the fiscal year (Note 2) — (3,633,200) — 78 recognized in the consolidated statement of financial position are as follows. March 31, 2019 390,000,000 208,911,620 ¥47,869 ¥54,835 Millions of yen Changes during the fiscal year (Note 2) — (4,736,300) — (44) Gross amount of financial Net amount of financial liabilities set off in the assets presented in the March 31, 2020 390,000,000 204,175,320 ¥47,869 ¥54,791 Gross amount of consolidated statement of consolidated statement of Date of transition (April 1, 2018) financial assets financial position financial position Capital stock Capital surplus Trade and other receivables ¥99,194 ¥2,458 ¥96,736 Number of authorized Number of issued (Thousands of (Thousands of Gross amount of financial Net amount of financial shares (shares) shares (shares) U.S. dollars) U.S. dollars) assets set off in the liabilities presented in the Gross amount of consolidated statement of consolidated statement of March 31, 2019 390,000,000 208,911,620 $439,165 $503,073 financial liabilities financial position financial position Changes during the fiscal year (Note 2) — (4,736,300) — (404) Trade and other payables ¥47,177 ¥2,458 ¥44,719 March 31, 2020 390,000,000 204,175,320 $439,165 $502,670 (Notes) 1. All the shares issued by the Company are non-par-value ordinary shares with no restrictions on rights, and all issued shares are fully paid. Millions of yen 2. The decrease of issued shares is due to the cancellation of treasury stock. Gross amount of financial Net amount of financial liabilities set off in the assets presented in the (2) Retained earnings Gross amount of consolidated statement of consolidated statement of March 31, 2019 financial assets financial position financial position The Act stipulates that one-tenth of the dividends of retained earnings shall be accumulated as capital reserve or legal reserve until the Trade and other receivables ¥102,760 ¥2,449 ¥100,311 aggregate amount of the capital reserve and legal reserve equals one-fourth of the capital stock. The accumulated legal reserve may be Gross amount of financial Net amount of financial appropriated to reduce a deficit. The Act also states that the legal reserve may be used by a resolution at a general meeting of shareholders. assets set off in the liabilities presented in the Gross amount of consolidated statement of consolidated statement of (3) Treasury stock financial liabilities financial position financial position Trade and other payables ¥51,498 ¥2,449 ¥49,049 The Act stipulates that a company may acquire its treasury stock upon determination of the number of shares to be acquired, the total amount to be delivered in exchange for the acquisition and other factors, which must be within the amount available for distribution to its Millions of yen shareholders and approved by a resolution at a general meeting of shareholders. Furthermore, a company may purchase its treasury stock by Gross amount of financial Net amount of financial a resolution of the Board of Directors if such a transaction is undertaken in the market or through a tender offer pursuant to its Articles of liabilities set off in the assets presented in the Incorporation and within the requirements stipulated in the Act. Gross amount of consolidated statement of consolidated statement of March 31, 2020 financial assets financial position financial position Changes in the number and outstanding balance of treasury stock are as follows. Amount Amount Trade and other receivables ¥95,350 ¥2,745 ¥92,604 Number of shares (shares) (Millions of yen) (Thousands of U.S. dollars) Gross amount of financial Net amount of financial assets set off in the liabilities presented in the Date of transition (April 1, 2018) 2,655,888 ¥ 6,422 Gross amount of consolidated statement of consolidated statement of Increase 1,733,576 5,002 financial liabilities financial position financial position Decrease (3,650,107) (9,683) Trade and other payables ¥46,426 ¥2,745 ¥43,681 March 31, 2019 739,357 ¥ 1,741 $ 15,972 Thousands of U.S. dollars Increase 4,774,736 10,074 92,422 Gross amount of financial Net amount of financial Decrease (4,759,494) (10,213) (93,697) liabilities set off in the assets presented in the March 31, 2020 754,599 ¥ 1,602 $ 14,697 Gross amount of consolidated statement of consolidated statement of March 31, 2020 financial assets financial position financial position (Note) The Company’s shares held by the BIP Trust and the ESOP Trust are included in the number of treasury stock. The number of shares included was 433,200, 416,402, and 430,908 as of the date of transition, March 31, 2019 and 2020, respectively. Trade and other receivables $874,771 $25,183 $849,578 Gross amount of financial Net amount of financial assets set off in the liabilities presented in the (4) Other components of equity Gross amount of consolidated statement of consolidated statement of financial liabilities financial position financial position Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations Trade and other payables $425,927 $25,183 $400,743 These are exchange differences arising from the process of consolidating financial statements of foreign operations prepared in foreign currencies. (6) Hedge accounting Financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income The Group is exposed to currency fluctuation risks associated with foreign currency-denominated trade receivables and the repayment and These are valuation differences in the fair values of equity instruments measured at fair value through other comprehensive income. interest payment of foreign currency-denominated borrowings. The Group uses forward exchange contracts, currency options and interest Cumulative gains or losses that were previously recognized in other comprehensive income have been reclassified to retained earnings in the rate and currency swaps for the purpose of hedging transactions against currency fluctuation risk, but does not apply hedge accounting. fiscal year in which those equity instruments were derecognized or significant decrease in the fair value was recorded. Remeasurements of defined benefit plans Remeasurements of defined benefit plans consist of actuarial gains and losses as well as the return on the plan assets, excluding amounts included in net interest on the net defined benefit liability. These are recognized in the aggregate amount of other comprehensive income as they occur and transferred immediately to retained earnings. NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 131 132 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 22. Dividends 2019 2020 Share price ¥2,563 ¥2,115 ($19.40) The Company distributes retained earnings within the amount available for distribution to the shareholders calculated in accordance with the Expected volatility (Note) 36.3% 32.4% provisions of the Act. The amount available for distribution to the shareholders is calculated based on the amount of retained earnings on the Expected remaining term 3.3 years 2.3 years Company’s accounting books prepared in accordance with the Japanese accounting standards. Expected dividend yield 2.3% 3.3% Dividend payments are as follows. Risk-free rate (0.1)% (0.2)% Fiscal year ended March 31, 2019 (from April 1, 2018 to March 31, 2019) (Note) The expected volatility is calculated based on historical price performance over the expected remaining period. Resolution date Total amount of dividends Dividends per share Record date Effective date Board of Directors’ meeting held on (2) Employee Stock Ownership Plan (ESOP) Trust April 27, 2018 (Note 1) ¥6,309 million ¥30 March 31, 2018 June 5, 2018 The Company has adopted the ESOP Trust for its employment-type corporate officers (hereafter, “eligible persons”), with the aim of infusing Board of Directors’ meeting held on among the eligible persons a sense of belonging to the Company and a sense of management participation, and raising their motivation and October 29, 2018 (Note 2) ¥7,300 million ¥35 September 30, 2018 November 30, 2018 morale to contribute to the long-term enhancement of the Group’s performance and rise in the stock price. (Notes) 1. The total amount of dividend payments based on the resolution of the Board of Directors’ meeting held on April 27, 2018 includes ¥12 million of dividends on the Company’s shares This is a performance-linked share-based payment plan, under which the Company’s shares are acquired through the ESOP Trust using held by the Directors’ Compensation BIP Trust. 2. The total amount of dividends paid based on the resolution of the Board of Directors’ meeting held on October 29, 2018 includes ¥14 million of dividends on the Company’s shares held the funds provided by the Company and, based on the number of points granted (1 point = 1 share) to the eligible persons in accordance by the Directors’ Compensation BIP Trust. with the Company’s share delivery rules, shares of the Company are delivered, and an amount of money equivalent to the conversion value of the Company’s shares is paid, to the respective eligible persons. Fiscal year ended March 31, 2020 (from April 1, 2019 to March 31, 2020) Vesting conditions require, in principle, that the eligible persons must have been in service retaining the eligibility from the grant date to Resolution date Total amount of dividends Dividends per share Record date Effective date the vesting date. Board of Directors’ meeting held on ¥7,300 million ¥35 In the plan, no exercise price is set as the Company’s shares are granted, and the amount of money equivalent to the conversion value of April 26, 2019 (Note 1) ($66,972 thousand) ($0.32) March 31, 2019 June 4, 2019 the Company’s shares is paid, both through the ESOP Trust. Board of Directors’ meeting held on ¥7,300 million ¥35 The weighted-average fair value of the ESOP Trust as of the grant date in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2020 was ¥1,762 ($16.17). October 28, 2019 (Note 2) ($66,972 thousand) ($0.32) September 30, 2019 November 29, 2019 (Not applicable to the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019.) These fair values are measured by reference to the fair values calculated using the (Notes) 1. The total amount of dividend payments based on the resolution of the Board of Directors’ meeting held on April 26, 2019 includes ¥14 million ($128 thousand) of dividends on the Black-Scholes model. Company’s shares held by the Directors’ Compensation BIP Trust. 2. The total amount of dividend payments based on the resolution of the Board of Directors’ meeting held on October 28, 2019 includes ¥15 million ($138 thousand) of dividends on the Assumptions used in the model are as follows. Company’s shares held by the Directors’ Compensation BIP Trust and the ESOP Trust. 2019 2020 Share price — ¥1,908 ($17.50) Dividends with an effective date in the following fiscal year are as follows. Expected volatility (Note) — 33.2% Fiscal year ended March 31, 2019 (from April 1, 2018 to March 31, 2019) Expected remaining term — 2.2 years Total amount of Expected dividend yield — 3.7% Resolution date Source of dividends dividends Dividends per share Record date Effective date Risk-free rate — (0.2)% Board of Directors’ meeting held on April 26, 2019 Retained earnings ¥7,300 million ¥35 March 31, 2019 June 4, 2019 (Note) The expected volatility is calculated based on the historical price performance over the expected remaining period. (Note) The total amount of dividend payments includes ¥14 million of dividends on the Company’s shares held by the Directors’ Compensation BIP Trust. 24. Revenue Fiscal year ended March 31, 2020 (from April 1, 2019 to March 31, 2020) (1) Revenue recognized from contracts with customers Total amount of Resolution date Source of dividends dividends Dividends per share Record date Effective date The components of “revenue” in the consolidated statement of profit or loss in the years ended March 31, 2019 and 2020 are as follows. Board of Directors’ meeting held on ¥7,134 million ¥35 Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars May 25, 2020 Retained earnings ($65,450 thousand) ($0.32) March 31, 2020 June 17, 2020 2019 2020 2020 (Note) The total amount of dividend payments includes ¥15 million ($138 thousand) of dividends on the Company’s shares held by the Directors’ Compensation BIP Trust and the ESOP Trust. Revenue recognized from contracts with customers ¥424,929 ¥425,798 $3,906,404 Revenue recognized from other sources 179 274 2,514 23. Share-based Payments Total ¥425,109 ¥426,073 $3,908,927 The Company has in place equity-settled share-based payment plans for its directors and executive officers. (Note) Revenue recognized from other sources includes revenue from lease contracts as defined under IFRS 16. Expenses recorded in association with the share-based payment plans were ¥136 million and ¥113 million ($1,037 thousand) in the fiscal (2) Disaggregation of revenue years ended March 31, 2019 and 2020, respectively. Revenue recognized from contracts with customers is disaggregated by segment based on contracts with customers. The Group is (1) BIP (Board Incentive Plan) Trust scheme composed of business units identified by business-unit-based products as the Group is able to obtain separate financial information and the The Company has adopted a scheme called “BIP Trust” for its directors and executive officers (hereafter, the “Directors, etc.”), with the aim of Board of Directors conduct periodic reviews to determine the allocation of management resources and evaluate business results. The further raising their awareness to contribute to the Group’s mediumto long-term performance and improvement of corporate value. relationship between disaggregated revenue and segment revenue is as follows. This is a performance-linked share-based payment plan, under which the Company’s shares are acquired through the BIP Trust, using Fiscal year ended March 31, 2019 (from April 1, 2018 to March 31, 2019) cash contributed by the Company, and based on the number of points granted (1 point = 1 share). In accordance with the Company’s share Millions of yen delivery rules, shares of the Company are delivered, and an amount of money equivalent to the conversion value of the Company’s shares is Automotive components ¥356,422 paid, to the respective Directors, etc. Plugs 213,778 Vesting conditions require, in principle, that the Directors, etc. must have served continuously in the position of Directors, etc. from the Sensors 142,644 grant date to the vesting date. In the plan, no exercise price is set as the Company’s shares are granted, and the amount of money equivalent to the conversion value of Technical ceramics ¥ 58,100 the Company’s shares is paid, both through the BIP Trust. Semiconductor 17,089 The weighted-average fair value of the BIP Trust as of the grant date was ¥2,371 and ¥1,959 ($17.97) in the fiscal years ended March Ceramics 41,010 31, 2019 and 2020, respectively. These fair values are measured by reference to the fair values calculated using the Black-Scholes model. Other ¥ 10,586 Assumptions used in the model are as follows. Total ¥425,109 (Note) The table above includes “revenue recognized from contracts with customers” and “revenue recognized from other sources.” NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 133 134 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Fiscal year ended March 31, 2020 (April 1, 2019 to March 31, 2020) 26. Other Income and Expenses Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars Automotive components ¥348,711 $3,199,183 The components of other income for the years ended March 31, 2019 and 2020 are as follows. Plugs 207,752 1,905,982 Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars Sensors 140,959 1,293,202 2019 2020 2020 Technical ceramics ¥ 52,220 $ 479,083 Gain on sale of property, plant and equipment ¥ 354 ¥ 39 $ 358 Semiconductor 16,517 151,532 Insurance income 255 57 523 Ceramics 35,702 327,541 Other 1,380 1,445 13,257 Other ¥ 25,141 $ 230,651 Total ¥1,989 ¥1,542 $14,147 Total ¥426,073 $3,908,927 (Note) The table above includes “revenue recognized from contracts with customers” and “revenue recognized from other sources.” The components of other expenses for the years ended March 31, 2019 and 2020 are as follows. Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars The “Automotive components” segment principally manufactures and sells automotive components, and consists of two subsegments: 2019 2020 2020 “Plugs” is engaged in spark plugs and glow plugs; and “Sensors” is engaged in exhaust gas sensors and other types of automotive sensors. Product compensation expenses ¥1,072 ¥187 $1,716 The “Technical ceramics” segment has two subsegments: “Semiconductor,” which manufactures and sells semiconductors, IC packages for Environment expenses 254 — — various devices, multilayer circuit boards, and other products; and “Ceramics,” which manufactures and sells cutting tools, ceramic products Other 1,343 531 4,872 for industrial use, components for semiconductor manufacturing equipment and other products. In the sale of these products, revenue is recognized at a point in time when the control of the product is passed to the customer; that is, Total ¥2,670 ¥718 $6,587 when the product is shipped to a location specified by the customer, and is delivered to and accepted by the customer, upon which the legal title to and the physical possession of the product, as well as the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the product transfer to the 27. Finance Income and Finance Expenses customer. No significant financing component is included in the consideration promised by the customer obligations as, following recognition of the revenue, it is received within one year after the performance obligations are satisfied. (1) Finance income There are instances when the products of the “Automotive components” segment are sold with variable considerations including rebates The components of finance income for the years ended March 31, 2019 and 2020 are as follows. that are conditional upon achievement of certain targets such as sales targets in terms of volume and amount (hereafter, “achievement Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars rebates”). In such cases, the transaction price is measured at the amount of consideration promised in the contract with the customer, less the estimated amount of achievement rebate or other variable consideration. Achievement rebates are estimated using the most likely amount 2019 2020 2020 method, which is based on past results and other data, and revenue is recognized only to the extent that it is highly probable that no Interest income significant reversal of recognized revenue will occur. Financial assets measured at amortized cost ¥ 920 ¥ 675 $ 6,193 Dividend income (3) Contract liabilities Financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive 1,489 1,492 13,688 Contract liabilities relate primarily to payments received from customers in advance. The balance of contract liabilities as of the date of income (Note) transition, March 31, 2019 and 2020 is as follows. Gain on valuation of derivatives 922 843 7,734 Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars Other 19 56 514 Date of transition Total ¥3,351 ¥3,068 $28,147 (April 1, 2018) 2019 2020 2020 (Note) Dividend income includes income from financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income that were derecognized during each fiscal year. This income from Contract liabilities ¥501 ¥405 ¥342 $3,138 financial assets is not presented as a separate component as the amount is immaterial. (2) Finance expenses The amounts of all contract liabilities relating to the respective fiscal years ended March 31, 2019 and 2020 included in the opening balance were recognized as revenue for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2019 and 2020. The components of finance expenses for the years ended March 31, 2019 and 2020 are as follows. Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars 25. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses 2019 2020 2020 Interest expense The components of “Selling, general and administrative expenses” in the consolidated statement of profit or loss for the years ended March Financial liabilities measured at amortized cost (Note) ¥ 767 ¥ 899 $ 8,248 31, 2019 and 2020 are as follows. Foreign exchange loss (net) 1,223 5,833 53,514 Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars Other 32 33 303 2019 2020 2020 Total ¥2,023 ¥6,766 $62,073 Depreciation and amortization ¥ 4,370 ¥ 5,509 $ 50,541 (Note) Interest expense associated with lease liabilities is stated in “Note 12: Leases.” Retirement benefit costs 1,009 1,184 10,862 Director compensation and employee salaries and allowances 32,338 34,262 314,330 Packaging and transportation expenses 10,955 8,580 78,716 Advertising expenses 6,389 5,612 51,486 Other 29,533 32,142 294,881 Total ¥84,597 ¥87,292 $800,844 NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 135 136 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 28. Income Taxes Fiscal year ended March 31, 2020 (from April 1, 2019 to March 31, 2020) Thousands of U.S. dollars (1) Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities Recognized through Balance as at Recognized through other comprehensive Balance as at The components of major causes of deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are as follows. April 1, 2019 profit or loss income Other (Note) March 31, 2020 Fiscal year ended March 31, 2019 (from April 1, 2018 to March 31, 2019) Deferred tax assets Millions of yen Operating loss carryforwards $ 13,560 $ (541) $ — $ 4,321 $ 17,339 Recognized through Retirement benefit liabilities 72,679 4,294 927 (523) 77,376 Balance as at Recognized through other comprehensive Balance as at April 1, 2018 profit or loss income Other (Note) March 31, 2019 Property, plant and equipment, and 19,248 5,954 — (18) 25,183 Deferred tax assets intangible assets Operating loss carryforwards ¥ 1,599 ¥ (329) ¥ — ¥ 208 ¥ 1,478 Accrued expenses 37,743 (2,147) — (358) 35,229 Retirement benefit liabilities 6,983 612 342 (16) 7,922 Inventories 26,642 183 — (385) 26,431 Property, plant and equipment, and 2,172 (74) — 0 2,098 Unrealized gains 54,936 (1,853) — — 53,083 intangible assets Other 39,661 (55) 5,706 (1,239) 44,073 Accrued expenses 3,955 155 — 3 4,114 Total $264,495 $ 5,826 $ 6,642 $ 1,761 $278,743 Inventories 2,486 412 — 5 2,904 Deferred tax liabilities Unrealized gains 5,343 645 — — 5,988 Retained earnings of affiliates 35,679 972 — — 36,651 Other 4,391 (80) — 12 4,323 Valuation difference on securities 103,266 73 (25,101) — 78,248 Total ¥26,931 ¥1,342 ¥ 342 ¥ 213 ¥28,830 Property, plant and equipment, and 30,073 771 — (1,688) 29,147 Deferred tax liabilities intangible assets Retained earnings of affiliates 3,357 531 — — 3,889 Other 3,404 477 — (138) 3,752 Valuation differences on securities 14,039 0 (2,783) — 11,256 Total $172,440 $ 2,303 $(25,101) $(1,835) $147,807 Property, plant and equipment, and 2,114 430 — 733 3,278 Net deferred tax assets (liabilities) $ 92,055 $ 3,523 $ 31,743 $ 3,606 $130,936 intangible assets (Note) Foreign currency translation differences are included in “Other.” Other 308 (14) — 78 371 Total ¥19,819 ¥ 948 ¥(2,783) ¥ 811 ¥18,796 Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities in the consolidated statement of financial position as of the date of transition, March 31, Net deferred tax assets (liabilities) ¥ 7,112 ¥ 394 ¥ 3,125 ¥(598) ¥10,034 2019 and 2020 are as follows. Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars (Note) Foreign currency translation differences are included in “Other.” Date of transition (April 1, 2018) 2019 2020 2020 Fiscal year ended March 31, 2020 (from April 1, 2019 to March 31, 2020) Deferred tax assets ¥10,137 ¥10,603 ¥14,296 $131,156 Millions of yen Deferred tax liabilities 3,024 568 24 220 Recognized through Balance as at Recognized through other comprehensive Balance as at Net deferred tax assets ¥7,112 ¥10,034 ¥14,272 $130,936 April 1, 2019 profit or loss income Other (Note) March 31, 2020 Deferred tax assets Deductible temporary differences, tax loss carryforwards and tax credit carryforwards for which no deferred tax assets were recognized Operating loss carryforwards ¥ 1,478 ¥ (59) ¥ — ¥ 471 ¥ 1,890 as of the date of transition, March 31, 2019 and 2020 are as follows. Retirement benefit liabilities 7,922 468 101 (57) 8,434 Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars Property, plant and equipment, and 2,098 649 — (2) 2,745 Date of transition intangible assets (April 1, 2018) 2019 2020 2020 Accrued expenses 4,114 (234) — (39) 3,840 Deductible temporary differences ¥18,773 ¥18,451 ¥ 9,762 $ 89,560 Inventories 2,904 20 — (42) 2,881 Tax loss carryforwards and tax credit carryforwards ¥10,490 ¥12,539 ¥16,165 $148,303 Unrealized gains 5,988 (202) — — 5,786 Other 4,323 (6) 622 (135) 4,804 The expiration schedule of tax loss carryforwards and tax credit carryforwards for which no deferred tax assets were recognized as of the Total ¥28,830 ¥ 635 ¥ 724 ¥ 192 ¥30,383 date of transition, March 31, 2019 and 2020 is as follows. Deferred tax liabilities Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars Retained earnings of affiliates 3,889 106 — — 3,995 Date of transition Valuation difference on securities 11,256 8 (2,736) — 8,529 (April 1, 2018) 2019 2020 2020 Property, plant and equipment, and 3,278 84 — (184) 3,177 First year ¥ 1,605 ¥ 215 ¥ 14 $ 128 intangible assets Second year 38 — 1 9 Other 371 52 — (15) 409 Third year — — — — Total ¥18,796 ¥ 251 ¥(2,736) ¥(200) ¥16,111 Fourth year — — — — Net deferred tax assets (liabilities) ¥10,034 ¥ 384 ¥ 3,460 ¥ 393 ¥14,272 Fifth year and beyond 8,847 12,323 16,148 148,147 Total ¥10,490 ¥12,539 ¥16,165 $148,303 NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 137 138 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Taxable temporary differences associated with investments in consolidated subsidiaries and associates for which no deferred tax liabilities 30. Other Comprehensive Income were recognized as of the date of transition, March 31, 2019 and 2020 are as follows. Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars The components of other comprehensive income and their tax effects (including noncontrolling interests) for the years ended March 31, 2019 Date of transition and 2020 are as follows. (April 1, 2018) 2019 2020 2020 Fiscal year ended March 31, 2019 (from April 1, 2018 to March 31, 2019) Total of taxable temporary differences associated with Millions of yen investments in consolidated subsidiaries and associates ¥70 ¥62 ¥39 $358 Amount arising Reclassification Before tax Amount of tax Net of tax during the fiscal year adjustments effects effects effects The Company does not recognize deferred tax liabilities for taxable temporary differences associated with investments in consolidated Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss subsidiaries other than undistributed earnings that are expected to be distributed at the end of the fiscal year. This is because it is highly Financial assets measured at fair value through other probable that the Group will be able to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences and that the taxable temporary comprehensive income ¥ (8,084) ¥— ¥ (8,084) ¥2,489 ¥(5,594) differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future. Remeasurements of defined benefit plans (1,123) — (1,123) 342 (781) (2) Income tax expenses Share of other comprehensive income of investments accounted for using the equity method (26) — (26) 6 (20) The components of income tax expenses for the years ended March 31, 2019 and 2020 are as follows. Total of items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss ¥ (9,234) ¥— ¥ (9,234) ¥2,838 ¥(6,395) Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss 2019 2020 2020 Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations (3,252) — (3,252) — (3,252) Current tax expense ¥16,220 ¥11,502 $105,523 Share of other comprehensive income of investments Deferred tax expense (Note) (394) (384) (3,523) accounted for using the equity method (54) — (54) — (54) Total ¥15,826 ¥11,118 $102,000 Total of items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss ¥ (3,306) ¥— ¥ (3,306) ¥ — ¥(3,306) (Note) Deferred tax expense includes the amount of previously unrecognized temporary differences of a prior period. Accordingly, deferred tax expense decreased by ¥1,849 million ($16,963 thousand) in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2020. Total of other comprehensive income ¥(12,541) ¥— ¥(12,541) ¥2,838 ¥(9,702) (3) Reconciliation of combined statutory tax rate Fiscal year ended March 31, 2020 (from April 1, 2019 to March 31, 2020) Reconciliation of combined statutory tax rate and average effective tax rate for the years ended March 31, 2019 and 2020 are as follows. Millions of yen Percentage Amount arising Reclassification Before tax Amount of tax Net of tax during the fiscal year adjustments effects effects effects 2019 2020 Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss Combined statutory tax rate 30.6 30.6 Financial assets measured at fair value through other (Reconciliation) comprehensive income ¥(10,863) ¥— ¥(10,863) ¥3,328 ¥ (7,535) Permanently non-deductible expenses 0.3 0.9 Remeasurements of defined benefit plans (812) — (812) 101 (710) Permanently non-taxable income (0.9) (0.4) Share of other comprehensive income of investments Tax credits for experimental research costs, etc. (3.5) (3.3) accounted for using the equity method (5) — (5) — (5) Differences in statutory tax rates of overseas consolidated subsidiaries (0.8) (0.9) Total of items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss ¥(11,681) ¥— ¥(11,681) ¥3,430 ¥ (8,251) The reassessment of the recoverability of deferred tax assets 1.3 (1.5) Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss Retained earnings of associates 0.9 0.3 Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations (11,975) — (11,975) — (11,975) Other 0.0 (0.9) Share of other comprehensive income of investments Average effective tax rates 27.9 24.8 accounted for using the equity method (576) — (576) — (576) (Note) The Company is subject to Japanese corporate tax, inhabitant tax and business tax, and the combined statutory tax rates calculated based on these for the fiscal years ended March 31, Total of items that may be reclassified subsequently to 2019 and 2020 were both 30.6%. Overseas consolidated subsidiaries are subject to income taxes at their respective locations. profit or loss ¥(12,551) ¥— ¥(12,551) ¥— ¥(12,551) Total of other comprehensive income ¥(24,233) ¥— ¥(24,233) ¥3,430 ¥(20,803) 29. Earnings per Share Fiscal year ended March 31, 2020 (from April 1, 2019 to March 31, 2020) (1) Per share information Thousands of U.S. dollars Yen U.S. dollar Amount arising Reclassification Before tax Amount of tax Net of tax during the fiscal year adjustments effects effects effects 2019 2020 2020 Basic earnings per share ¥194.55 ¥163.06 $1.50 Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss Financial assets measured at fair value through other (Note) Diluted earnings per share information is omitted because the Company does not have dilutive potential ordinary shares. comprehensive income $ (99,661) $— $ (99,661) $30,532 $ (69,128) (2) The basis for the calculation of basic earnings per share for the years ended March 31, 2019 and 2020 is as follows. Remeasurements of defined benefit plans (7,450) — (7,450) 927 (6,514) Share of other comprehensive income of investments Yen U.S. dollar accounted for using the equity method (46) — (46) — (46) Item 2019 2020 2020 Total of items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss $(107,165) $— $(107,165) $31,468 $ (75,697) Profit attributable to owners of the parent ¥40,515 ¥33,698 $309,156 Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations (109,862) — (109,862) — (109,862) Thousands of shares Share of other comprehensive income of investments 2019 2020 accounted for using the equity method (5,284) — (5,284) — (5,284) Weighted-average number of ordinary shares during the year 208,255 206,665 Total of items that may be reclassified subsequently to (Note) In the calculation of basic earnings per share, the Company’s shares held by the BIP Trust and the ESOP Trust are deducted from the weighted-average number of ordinary shares. profit or loss $(115,147) $— $(115,147) $ — $(115,147) Total of other comprehensive income $(222,321) $— $(222,321) $31,468 $(190,853) NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 139 140 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 31. Changes in Liabilities Arising from Financing Activities 34. Contingencies (1) Guarantee obligations Changes in liabilities arising from financing activities for the years ended March 31, 2019 and 2020 are as follows. Fiscal year ended March 31, 2019 (from April 1, 2018 to March 31, 2019) The Group provides guarantees for borrowings from financial institutions taken by the Group’s employees, as follows. Millions of yen Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars Non-cash changes Date of transition Changes arising (April 1, 2018) March 31, 2019 March 31, 2020 March 31, 2020 Foreign currency from acquisition exchange New lease of control in Guarantees of employees’ obligations ¥11 ¥8 ¥5 $46 April 1, 2018 Cash flows differences contracts subsidiaries Other March 31, 2019 Total ¥11 ¥8 ¥5 $46 Short-term loans payable ¥ 10,113 ¥15,722 ¥ 431 ¥ — ¥1,319 ¥ — ¥ 27,587 Long-term loans payable 29,904 138 1,183 — — 4 31,230 (2) Litigation, etc. Bonds 54,902 (5,107) — — — 47 49,842 The Group is subject to investigations by foreign authorities on alleged antitrust violations in relation to certain past transactions in the Lease liabilities 8,993 (2,231) (113) 2,893 146 (10) 9,678 automotive components business. In connection with the investigations, discussions are ongoing with some customers on compensation for Total ¥103,913 ¥ 8,522 ¥1,502 ¥2,893 ¥1,466 ¥ 41 ¥118,339 damages while for other customers, civil lawsuits have been filed. Currently, no provision is recognized as the provision criteria are not met. In accordance with IAS 37 “Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets,” detailed description of the legal proceedings, etc. is not Fiscal year ended March 31, 2020 (from April 1, 2019 to March 31, 2020) disclosed to avoid putting the Group at a disadvantage. Millions of yen Non-cash changes 35. Subsequent Events Changes arising Foreign currency from acquisition exchange New lease of control in There are no items to report. April 1, 2019 Cash flows differences contracts subsidiaries Other March 31, 2020 Short-term loans payable ¥ 27,587 ¥(16,404) ¥(250) ¥ — ¥— ¥ — ¥ 10,931 36. First-time Adoption (disclosure relating to transition to IFRS) Long-term loans payable 31,230 20,076 787 — — (106) 51,987 Bonds 49,842 29,852 — — — 48 79,743 The consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2020 are the first set of financial statements prepared in conformity with International Financial Reporting Standards. The most recent consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with the Lease liabilities 9,678 (2,637) (296) 3,453 — 83 10,283 generally accepted accounting principles in Japan (hereafter, “Japanese GAAP”) are those for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019. The date Total ¥118,339 ¥ 30,887 ¥ 240 ¥3,453 ¥— ¥ 25 ¥152,946 of transition from Japanese GAAP to IFRS was April 1, 2018. Fiscal year ended March 31, 2020 (from April 1, 2019 to March 31, 2020) (1) Exemptions under IFRS 1 Thousands of U.S. dollars In principle, IFRS requires an entity adopting IFRS for the first time to apply IFRS retrospectively. However, IFRS 1 establishes certain Non-cash changes exemptions from retrospective application of the standards, consisting of mandatory exceptions and optional exemptions. The effect of Changes arising Foreign currency from acquisition applying these exemption provisions is adjusted through retained earnings or other components of equity as of the date of transition to IFRS. exchange New lease of control in The main optional exemptions that the Company applied are the following. April 1, 2019 Cash flows differences contracts subsidiaries Other March 31, 2020 • Business combinations Short-term loans payable $ 253,092 $(150,495) $(2,294) $ — $— $ — $ 100,284 IFRS 1 allows the option not to apply IFRS 3 “Business Combinations” retrospectively to past business combinations. If retrospective Long-term loans payable 286,514 184,183 7,220 — — (972) 476,945 application is chosen, all subsequent business combinations should be restated in accordance with IFRS 3. Bonds 457,266 273,872 — — — 440 731,587 The Group has decided not to apply IFRS 3 retrospectively to business combinations that occurred prior to the date of transition. Lease liabilities 88,789 (24,193) (2,716) 31,679 — 761 94,339 As a result, no adjustment is made to goodwill arising from business combinations that occurred prior to the date of transition, which is Total $1,085,679 $ 283,367 $ 2,202 $31,679 $— $ 229 $1,403,174 stated at the carrying amount recognized in accordance with Japanese GAAP. For such goodwill, irrespective of whether an indication of impairment existed, an impairment test was conducted at the date of transition. • Deemed cost 32. Major Subsidiaries For property, plant and equipment, IFRS 1 allows the use of fair values at the date of transition as deemed cost as of the same date. The Group has applied this exemption for certain items of property, plant and equipment, and uses their fair values at the date of The Company’s major subsidiaries are mentioned on the Company’s website (https://www.ngkntk.co.jp/). transition as deemed cost as of the same date. • Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 33. Related parties IFRS 1 allows cumulative exchange differences on translation of foreign operations at the date of transition to be reset to zero. The (1) Transactions with related parties Group has decided to reset the cumulative exchange differences on translation of foreign operations to zero at the date of transition, with the differences recognized as retained earnings. This information is omitted as neither material related-party transactions nor material outstanding balances of receivables and payables were noted. • Designation of financial instruments that were recognized prior to the date of transition (2) Compensation to key management personnel IFRS 1 allows an entity to designate financial assets in accordance with IFRS 9 “Financial Instruments” based on the facts and circumstances existing at the date of transition. The Group has designated financial instruments in its holding based on the Compensation to key management personnel for the years ended March 31, 2019 and 2020 are as follows. circumstances existing at the date of transition. Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars • Leases 2019 2020 2020 IFRS 1 allows an entity to determine whether or not an arrangement contains a lease at the date of transition. The Group has assessed Remuneration and bonuses ¥1,033 ¥ 901 $8,266 whether or not an arrangement contained a lease on the basis of facts and circumstances existing at the date of transition. Additionally, Share-based payments 136 113 1,037 IFRS 1 permits an entity to measure right-of-use assets at the date of transition at an amount equal to the lease liability after Total ¥1,169 ¥1,014 $9,303 adjustments for prepaid lease payments, etc. that is recognized in the consolidated statement of financial position for the fiscal year (Notes) 1. Key management personnel are the Company’s directors and executive officers working in the fiscal years ended March 31, 2019 and 2020. immediately preceding the date of transition. The Group measured right-of-use assets at the date of transition at an amount equal to 2. The amounts of share-based payments are the amounts expensed in the fiscal years ended March 31, 2019 and 2020. the lease liability after adjustments for prepaid lease payments, etc. NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 141 142 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (2) Mandatory exceptions to retrospective application of IFRS 1 Millions of yen IFRS 1 prohibits retrospective application of some items of IFRS including “estimates,” “derecognition of financial assets and financial Differences in Accounts under Japanese recognition and Accounts liabilities,” “noncontrolling interests” and “classification and measurement of financial assets.” For these items, the Group is applying IFRS Japanese GAAP GAAP Reclassifications measurement IFRS Notes under IFRS prospectively from the date of transition. Liabilities Liabilities (3) Reconciliation Current liabilities Current liabilities Reconciliations required under IFRS 1 are as follows. Items that do not affect retained earnings and comprehensive income are presented in Accounts payable — trade ¥ 32,407 ¥ 12,050 ¥ 261 ¥ 44,719 Trade and other payables “Reclassifications,” and items that affect retained earnings and comprehensive income are presented in “Differences in recognition and Short-term loans payable ¥ 10,113 ¥ 34,962 ¥ (281) ¥ 44,793 B Bonds and borrowings measurement.” Current portion of bonds payable ¥ 25,000 ¥(25,000) — — Note that on December 20, 2018, the Group acquired all of the shares of CAIRE Inc., CAIRE Medical Limited and CAIRE Medical Current portion of long-term loans payable ¥ 9,962 ¥ (9,962) — — Technology (Chengdu) Co., Ltd. (hereafter, “CAIRE”), which, together with its five subsidiaries, became the Group’s subsidiaries. Because Lease obligations ¥ 43 — ¥ 2,053 ¥ 2,096 C, P Other financial liabilities allocations of the acquisition costs had not been completed, a provisional treatment of these transactions was made in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019. This accounting was finalized in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2020. The final numbers are reflected in the reconciliation of Income taxes payable ¥ 13,040 ¥ (831) — ¥ 12,209 Income taxes payable equity as of March 31, 2019 (the most recent closing date of the consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with Japanese Other ¥ 39,641 ¥(11,219) ¥ 5,647 ¥ 34,069 K Other current liabilities GAAP), and in the reconciliation of profit or loss and other comprehensive income relating to the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019 (from April Total current liabilities ¥130,208 — ¥ 7,681 ¥137,889 Total current liabilities 1, 2018 to March 31, 2019) (the most recent fiscal year for which the consolidated financial statements were prepared under Japanese GAAP). Noncurrent liabilities Noncurrent liabilities Reconciliation of equity at the date of transition (April 1, 2018) Bonds payable ¥ 30,000 ¥ 22,886 ¥ (2,759) ¥ 50,126 B Bonds and borrowings Millions of yen Long-term loans payable ¥ 22,886 ¥(22,886) — — Differences in Lease obligations ¥ 111 ¥ 236 ¥ 9,978 ¥ 10,326 B, C, P Other financial liabilities Accounts under Japanese recognition and Accounts Japanese GAAP GAAP Reclassifications measurement IFRS Notes under IFRS Net defined benefit liabilities ¥ 27,443 — ¥ (2,399) ¥ 25,043 L Net defined benefit liabilities Assets Assets Provision for stock benefits ¥ 92 ¥ (92) — — Current assets Current assets Deferred tax liabilities ¥ 169 ¥ 837 ¥ 2,017 ¥ 3,024 I Deferred tax liabilities Cash and deposits equivalents ¥ 56,235 ¥ 31,143 ¥ 101 ¥ 87,479 O Cash and cash Other ¥ 945 ¥ (143) ¥ 2,010 ¥ 2,811 K Other noncurrent liabilities Notes and accounts receivable — trade ¥ 93,615 ¥ 5,806 ¥ (2,686) ¥ 96,736 A Trade and other receivables Total noncurrent liabilities ¥ 81,648 ¥ 837 ¥ 8,847 ¥ 91,333 Total noncurrent liabilities Short-term investment securities ¥ 59,905 ¥(30,829) ¥ 457 ¥ 29,533 B, O, P Other financial assets Total liabilities ¥211,856 ¥ 837 ¥ 16,528 ¥229,222 Total liabilities Inventories ¥ 94,953 — ¥ 2,792 ¥ 97,746 A Inventories Net assets Equity Other ¥ 15,076 ¥ (6,871) ¥ 541 ¥ 8,745 C Other current assets Capital stock ¥ 47,869 — — ¥ 47,869 Capital stock Allowance for doubtful accounts ¥ (751) ¥ 751 — — Capital surplus ¥ 54,639 — ¥ 116 ¥ 54,756 Capital surplus Total current assets ¥319,035 — ¥ 1,205 ¥320,241 Total current assets Retained earnings ¥278,374 — ¥(11,285) ¥267,089 M, N Retained earnings Noncurrent assets Noncurrent assets Treasury stock ¥ (6,422) — — ¥ (6,422) Treasury stock Property, plant and equipment ¥195,102 ¥ (211) ¥11,619 ¥206,510 D, F Property, plant and equipment Total accumulated other comprehensive ¥ 11,200 — ¥ 20,539 ¥ 31,739 L, M Other components of equity income Goodwill and intangible Intangible assets ¥ 5,114 ¥ (257) ¥ 1,842 ¥ 6,699 H assets ¥385,661 — ¥ 9,371 ¥395,032 Total equity attributable to owners of the parent — ¥ 468 ¥ 7,118 ¥ 7,587 C Right-of-use assets Noncontrolling interests ¥ 2,454 — ¥ 124 ¥ 2,578 Noncontrolling interests Investment securities ¥ 71,680 ¥(59,331) ¥ 704 ¥ 13,054 Investments accounted for using the equity method Total net assets ¥388,115 — ¥ 9,495 ¥397,611 Total equity Deferred tax assets ¥ 7,672 ¥ 837 ¥ 1,627 ¥ 10,137 I Deferred tax assets Total liabilities and net assets ¥599,972 ¥ 837 ¥ 26,024 ¥626,833 Total liabilities and equity Other ¥ 1,487 ¥ (495) ¥ 1,141 ¥ 2,132 C Other noncurrent assets Allowance for doubtful accounts ¥ (119) ¥ 59,827 ¥ 763 ¥ 60,470 J, P Other financial assets Total noncurrent assets ¥280,936 ¥ 837 ¥24,818 ¥306,592 Total noncurrent assets Total assets ¥599,972 ¥ 837 ¥26,024 ¥626,833 Total assets NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 143 144 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Reconciliation of equity as of March 31, 2019 Millions of yen Millions of yen Differences in Accounts under Japanese recognition and Accounts Differences in Japanese GAAP GAAP Reclassifications measurement IFRS Notes under IFRS Accounts under Japanese recognition and Accounts Japanese GAAP GAAP Reclassifications measurement IFRS Notes under IFRS Liabilities Liabilities Assets Assets Current liabilities Current liabilities Current assets Current assets Accounts payable — trade ¥ 34,957 ¥ 14,169 ¥ (77) ¥ 49,049 Trade and other payables Cash and deposits ¥ 48,639 ¥ 25,611 ¥ 154 ¥ 74,404 O Cash and cash equivalents Short-term loans payable ¥ 27,587 ¥ 9,924 ¥ (1,044) ¥ 36,466 B Bonds and borrowings Notes and accounts receivable — trade ¥ 96,834 ¥ 6,120 ¥ (2,643) ¥100,311 A Trade and other receivables Current portion of long-term loans payable ¥ 9,924 ¥ (9,924) — — Short-term investment securities ¥ 34,921 ¥(25,498) — ¥ 9,423 O, P Other financial assets Lease obligations ¥ 52 ¥ 55 ¥ 2,173 ¥ 2,281 C, P Other financial liabilities Inventories ¥113,124 — ¥ 2,611 ¥115,735 A Inventories Income taxes payable ¥ 9,126 ¥ (681) ¥ 10 ¥ 8,456 Income taxes payable Other ¥ 18,423 ¥ (7,075) ¥ 515 ¥ 11,862 C Other current assets Other ¥ 40,734 ¥(13,543) ¥ 6,141 ¥ 33,332 K Other current liabilities Allowance for doubtful accounts ¥ (841) ¥ 841 — — Total current liabilities ¥122,382 — ¥ 7,203 ¥129,586 Total current liabilities Total current assets ¥311,100 — ¥ 636 ¥311,737 Total current assets Noncurrent liabilities Noncurrent liabilities Noncurrent assets Noncurrent assets Bonds payable ¥ 50,000 ¥ 23,062 ¥ (867) ¥ 72,194 B Bonds and borrowings Property, plant and equipment ¥228,720 ¥ (234) ¥ 9,526 ¥238,012 D, E, F Property, plant and Long-term loans payable ¥ 23,062 ¥(23,062) — — equipment Lease obligations ¥ 129 ¥ 298 ¥ 8,736 ¥ 9,164 B, C, P Other financial liabilities Intangible assets Goodwill and intangible ¥ 13,658 ¥ (234) ¥ 2,253 ¥ 15,678 G, H assets Net defined benefit liabilities ¥30,254 — ¥ (3,054) ¥ 27,199 L Net defined benefit liabilities — ¥ 468 ¥ 8,123 ¥ 8,591 C Right-of-use assets Provision for stock benefits ¥ 201 ¥ (201) — — Investment securities ¥ 63,310 ¥(51,198) ¥ 1,067 ¥ 13,179 Investments accounted for Deferred tax liabilities ¥ 618 ¥ (1,875) ¥ 1,825 ¥ 568 I Deferred tax liabilities G using the equity method Other ¥ 1,262 ¥ (96) ¥ 2,059 ¥ 3,225 K Other noncurrent liabilities Deferred tax assets ¥ 11,235 ¥ (1,875) ¥ 1,242 ¥ 10,603 I Deferred tax assets Total noncurrent liabilities ¥105,528 ¥ (1,875) ¥ 8,698 ¥112,352 Total noncurrent liabilities Other ¥ 1,510 ¥ (616) ¥ 685 ¥ 1,579 C Other noncurrent assets Total liabilities ¥227,911 ¥ (1,875) ¥ 15,902 ¥241,938 Total liabilities Allowance for doubtful accounts ¥ (119) ¥ 51,814 ¥ 852 ¥ 52,547 J, P Other financial assets Net assets Equity Total noncurrent assets ¥318,316 ¥ (1,875) ¥23,751 ¥340,192 Total noncurrent assets Capital stock ¥ 47,869 — — ¥ 47,869 Capital stock Total assets ¥629,417 ¥ (1,875) ¥24,388 ¥651,929 Total assets Capital surplus ¥ 54,639 — ¥ 195 ¥ 54,835 Capital surplus Retained earnings ¥297,754 — ¥(13,526) ¥284,228 M, N Retained earnings Treasury stock ¥ (1,741) — — ¥ (1,741) Treasury stock Total accumulated other comprehensive ¥ 551 — ¥ 21,683 ¥ 22,235 L, M Other components of equity income ¥399,074 — ¥ 8,353 ¥407,427 Total equity attributable to owners of the parent Noncontrolling interests ¥ 2,431 — ¥ 132 ¥ 2,564 Noncontrolling interests Total net assets ¥401,505 — ¥ 8,485 ¥409,991 Total equity Total liabilities and net assets ¥629,417 ¥ (1,875) ¥ 24,388 ¥651,929 Total liabilities and equity NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 145 146 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Reconciliation of profit or loss and comprehensive income for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019 Notes on reconciliation as of the date of transition (April 1, 2018) and for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019 Millions of yen A. Chargeable subcontracting transactions Differences in Accounts under Japanese recognition and Accounts The Group conducts transactions whereby components, etc. are provided with charge to suppliers for processing and subsequently Japanese GAAP GAAP Reclassifications measurement IFRS Notes under IFRS repurchased at a gross price that includes processing and related costs (hereafter, “chargeable subcontracting transactions”). In a Net sales ¥ 425,013 ¥ (397) ¥ 493 ¥ 425,109 Revenue chargeable subcontracting transaction, under Japanese GAAP, extinguishment of the items supplied was recorded and accounts Cost of sales ¥(281,458) ¥(1,193) ¥(2,356) ¥(285,007) E Cost of sales receivables were recognized at the time of provision to the supplier. Under IFRS, the transaction is a financial transaction in which extinguishment of the items supplied is not recognized, and the inventories of supplied items that remain with the suppliers at fiscal year Gross profit ¥ 143,555 ¥(1,591) ¥(1,862) ¥ 140,101 Gross profit end are recognized as financial liability. With respect to financial assets and financial liabilities associated with chargeable subcontracting Selling, general and administrative expenses ¥ (85,169) ¥ 322 ¥ 250 ¥ (84,597) Selling, general and transactions, under Japanese GAAP, the total amounts were presented for transactions that would be settled on a net basis, under IFRS, administrative expenses in instances where the Group has a legally enforceable right to set off the balance or has the intention to settle on a net basis or realize the — ¥ 139 ¥ 358 ¥ 497 Q Share of profit of investments asset and settle the liability simultaneously, the financial assets and financial liabilities are set off and the net amount is presented in the accounted for using the equity method consolidated statement of financial position. As a result, at the date of transition, “Trade and other receivables” decreased by ¥2,458 million and “Inventories” increased by ¥2,458 — ¥ 2,080 ¥ (90) ¥ 1,989 Q Other income million. As of March 31, 2019, “Trade and other receivables” decreased by ¥2,449 million and “Inventories” increased by ¥2,449 million. — ¥(2,669) ¥ (0) ¥ (2,670) Q Other expenses Operating income ¥ 58,385 ¥(1,718) ¥(1,344) ¥ 55,321 Operating profit B. Interest rate and currency swaps Non-operating income ¥ 4,294 ¥ 1,201 ¥(2,143) ¥ 3,351 B, J, Q Finance income Under Japanese GAAP, interest rate and currency swaps that met certain hedging criteria for integrated treatment (special treatment of Non-operating expenses ¥ (3,421) ¥ 260 ¥ 1,136 ¥ (2,023) B,Q Finance expenses interest rate swaps and allocation treatment of currency swaps) were measured in their entirety. However, as such treatment is not allowed under IFRS, they are translated using the fiscal year-end rates applicable to foreign currency-denominated borrowings being hedged. Extraordinary income ¥ 1,314 ¥(1,314) — — Q Interest rate and currency swaps are measured at fair value through profit or loss. Extraordinary loss ¥ (1,530) ¥ 1,530 — — Q As a result, at the date of transition, “Other financial assets” in current assets increased by ¥446 million, “Bonds and borrowings” in Profit before income taxes ¥ 59,042 ¥ (41) ¥(2,351) ¥ 56,649 Profit before income taxes current liabilities decreased by ¥262 million, “Bonds and borrowings” in noncurrent liabilities decreased by ¥2,649 million, and “Other Income taxes — current ¥ (16,613) ¥ 542 ¥ 244 ¥ (15,826) Income tax expenses financial liabilities” in noncurrent liabilities increased by ¥3,286 million. Income taxes — deferred ¥ 501 ¥ (501) — — As of March 31, 2019, “Bonds and borrowings” in current liabilities decreased by ¥1,036 million, “Bonds and borrowings” in noncurrent liabilities decreased by ¥692 million, “Other financial liabilities” in noncurrent liabilities increased by ¥1,614 million, and “Finance Profit ¥ 42,930 — ¥(2,106) ¥ 40,823 E, G, J, K Profit income” and “Finance expenses” decreased by ¥1,183 million and ¥1,225 million, respectively. Other comprehensive income Other comprehensive income Items that will not be C. Leases as lessee reclassified to profit or loss Under Japanese GAAP, a lease in a transaction as lessee was classified as either finance lease or operating lease, and an operating lease Valuation differences on available-for-sale ¥ (6,321) — ¥ 726 ¥ (5,594) Financial assets measured at was accounted for in the same manner as an ordinary lease transaction. Under IFRS, lease is no longer classified as finance or operating securities fair value through other leases. Instead, a lease transaction in lessee accounting is accounted for both as right-of-use asset (lease asset) and lease liability (lease comprehensive income obligation). Adjustment for the relevant prepaid lease payments is made in measuring a right-of-use asset (lease asset). Remeasurements of defined benefit plans ¥ (1,025) — ¥ 244 ¥ (781) Remeasurements of defined As a result, at the date of transition, “Other current assets” increased by ¥507 million, “Right-of-use assets” increased by ¥7,190 benefit plans million, “Other noncurrent assets” increased by ¥1,140 million, “Other financial liabilities” in current liabilities increased by ¥2,053 million, — ¥ (12) ¥ (8) ¥ (20) Share of other comprehensive income of investments and “Other financial liabilities” in noncurrent liabilities increased by ¥6,785 million. accounted for using the As of March 31, 2019, “Other current assets,” “Right-of-use assets,” “Other noncurrent assets,” “Other financial liabilities” in current equity method liabilities and “Other financial liabilities” in noncurrent liabilities increased by ¥512 million, ¥8,193 million, ¥683 million, ¥2,173 million, and Items that may be reclassified ¥7,323 million, respectively. subsequently to profit or loss Foreign currency translation adjustments ¥ (3,299) — ¥ 47 ¥ (3,252) Exchange differences on D. Reversal of impairment losses translation of foreign Under Japanese GAAP, reversal of impairment losses is not allowed. Under IFRS, an impairment loss recognized in prior years shall be operations reversed if it is assessed that profitability has recovered. Share of other comprehensive income of ¥ (80) ¥ 12 ¥ 13 ¥ (54) Share of other comprehensive With respect to some items of property, plant and equipment for which impairment losses were recognized in prior years due to not associates accounted for using the equity income of investments method accounted for using the being utilized or other reasons, reversal of impairment losses was recognized at the date of transition given improved operation through equity method use in other businesses, etc. Total other comprehensive income ¥ (10,727) — ¥1,024 ¥ (9,702) Total other comprehensive As a result, “Property, plant and equipment” increased by ¥9,859 million at the date of transition, and by ¥9,450 million as of March income (after tax effects) 31, 2019. Comprehensive income ¥ 32,202 — ¥(1,081) ¥ 31,120 Total comprehensive income E. Recognition of impairment losses Under Japanese GAAP, where there is an indication of impairment, the carrying amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is compared with the sum of undiscounted estimated future cash flows, and if and only if the sum of estimated undiscounted future cash flows falls below the carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognized to the extent of the recoverable amount based on the sum of the discounted estimated future cash flows. Under IFRS, if an indication of impairment exists, the carrying amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is compared with the recoverable amount that is based on the sum of discounted future cash flows, and if the recoverable amount is less than the carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognized to the extent of the recoverable amount. This resulted in the need to recognize impairment under IFRS with respect to some items of property, plant and equipment for which impairment indicators existed in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019 but impairment was assessed to be unnecessary under Japanese GAAP. Accordingly, a reduction was made to the carrying amounts of the relevant items of property, plant and equipment as of March 31, 2019. As a result, “Property, plant and equipment” decreased by ¥1,675 million, “Cost of sales” increased by ¥1,675 million, and “Profit” decreased by ¥1,675 million as of March 31, 2019. NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 147 148 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements F. Deemed cost M. Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations The Group has decided to apply the exemption provided in IFRS 1 and measured certain items of property, plant and equipment at fair In adopting IFRS, the Group applied exemptions as provided in IFRS 1 with respect to cumulative exchange differences on translation of value at the date of transition, and recognized the same as deemed cost. The carrying amount under Japanese GAAP of the items of foreign operations, and decided to deem these differences to be zero as of the date of transition, which are recognized in retained earnings. property, plant and equipment for which the deemed cost was used, and their fair value, were ¥149 million and ¥1,370 million, As a result, at the date of transition, the entire amount of losses in foreign currency translation adjustments of ¥16,737 million was respectively. transferred from accumulated other comprehensive income to “Retained earnings.” As a result, at the date of transition, “Property, plant and equipment” increased by ¥1,220 million, and the difference arising from the reconciliation is included in “retained earnings.” As of March 31, 2019, “Property, plant and equipment” increased by ¥1,238 million. N. Adjustments to retained earnings The effect on retained earnings arising from the adjustments described above is as follows (figures in parentheses indicate losses). G. Goodwill Millions of yen Under Japanese GAAP, goodwill was amortized on a straight-line method over the period in which the economic benefits of the goodwill Date of transition were reasonably expected to be realized. Under IFRS, goodwill arising from business combinations is not amortized and impairment tests (April 1, 2018) 2019 are performed periodically. Reversal of impairment losses (see Note D) ¥8,684 ¥8,400 As a result, “Goodwill and intangible assets” increased by ¥251 million, “Investments accounted for using the equity method” Recognition of impairment losses (see Note E) — (1,675) increased by ¥350 million, and “Profit” increased by ¥601 million as of March 31, 2019. Deemed cost (see Note F) 1,220 1,184 H. Intangible assets (or development expenses) Goodwill (see Note G) — 601 Some items of development expenses that were expensed under Japanese GAAP are recognized as “Intangible assets” under IFRS, as Intangible assets (or development expenses) (see Note H) 1,274 1,385 they meet the requirements of “intangible assets” stipulated in IAS 38. Paid leave payable (see Note K) (4,594) (4,938) As a result, “Goodwill and intangible assets” at the date of transition and at March 31, 2019 increased by ¥1,836 million and ¥1,996 Post-employment benefits (see Note L) (1,540) (2,077) million, respectively. Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations (See Note M) (16,737) (16,737) I. Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities Under Japanese GAAP, deferred tax assets relating to unrealized gains from intra-group inventory transactions were calculated using the Other 407 331 effective tax rates of the selling entity. Under IFRS, these are calculated using the effective tax rates of the acquiring entity. Furthermore, Adjustments to retained earnings ¥(11,285) ¥(13,526) deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are recognized for temporary differences arising from reconciliation of the differences in connection with transition to IFRS. Reclassifications in the consolidated statement of financial position As a result, at the date of transition, “Deferred tax assets” and “Deferred tax liabilities” increased by ¥1,627 million and ¥2,017 million, The main reclassifications made to comply with IFRS provisions are as follows. respectively. O. Under Japanese GAAP, short-term investments maturing within 3 months from the date of acquisition were included in “Short-term As of March 31, 2019, “Deferred tax assets” and “Deferred tax liabilities” increased by ¥1,242 million and ¥1,825 million, respectively. investment securities.” Under IFRS, these are included in “Cash and cash equivalents.” P. Other financial assets and other financial liabilities are presented separately. J. Equity instruments Under Japanese GAAP, non-marketable equity instruments were recognized at their acquisition costs. Under IFRS, in accordance with Reclassifications in the consolidated statement of profit or loss IFRS 9 “Financial instruments,” these instruments are classified as equity instruments measured at fair value through other comprehensive The main reclassifications made to comply with IFRS provisions are as follows. income and measured at fair value irrespective of their marketability. Under Japanese GAAP, gains and losses on sale of equity Q. For income and expense items presented under Japanese GAAP as “Non-operating income,” “Non-operating expenses,” instruments were recognized in profit or loss. Under IFRS, for equity instruments that the Group has designated as financial instruments “Extraordinary income” and “Extraordinary expenses,” under IFRS, those related to finance are presented as “Finance income” or measured at fair value through other comprehensive income, changes in the fair value are recognized in “other comprehensive income.” “Finance expenses,” and all other items are included in “Other income” or “Other expenses.” Under Japanese GAAP, “Share of the As a result, “Other financial assets” in noncurrent assets increased by ¥762 million at the date of transition. profit of investments accounted for using the equity method” is presented as “Non-operating income.” Under IFRS, this is separately As of March 31, 2019, “Other financial assets” in noncurrent assets increased by ¥851 million, while “Finance income” and “Profit” stated and included in operating income. decreased by ¥960 million and ¥664 million, respectively. Reconciliation of the consolidated statement of cash flows for the year ended March 31, 2019 K. Paid leave payable The differences between the consolidated statement disclosed under Japanese GAAP and that disclosed under IFRS are mainly Japanese GAAP has no specific requirements for accounting treatment of unused paid leave and special leave that are granted based on attributable to the adoption of IFRS 16 “Leases,” which resulted in adjustment of lease payments for operating leases. This item, which the years of service. Under IFRS, this is recognized as a liability. was included in cash flow from operating activities under Japanese GAAP, has been included in cash flows from financing activities as As a result, at the date of transition, “Other current liabilities” and “Other noncurrent liabilities” increased by ¥4,437 million and ¥2,083 cash outflow for repayment of lease liabilities under IFRS. million, respectively. As of March 31, 2019, “Other current liabilities” and “Other noncurrent liabilities” increased by ¥4,875 million and ¥2,142 million, respectively, and “Profit” decreased by ¥343 million. L. Post-employment benefits Under Japanese GAAP, service costs, interest expense and expected return on plan assets associated with post-employment benefits under the defined benefit plans were recognized in profit or loss. Furthermore, actuarial differences arising from the plans and the portion of past service costs that was not expensed were recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income and subsequently recognized in profit or loss over a certain period. Under IFRS, current service costs and past service costs associated with post-employment benefits under the defined benefit plans are recognized in profit or loss. Net interest expense is recognized in profit or loss in the amount obtained by multiplying the net defined benefit asset (liability) by a discount rate. Remeasurement of net defined benefit liability (asset) is recognized in other comprehensive income, and is transferred from other components of equity directly to retained earnings when incurred without being recognized in profit or loss. This remeasurement comprises actuarial gains and losses related to defined benefit obligations and return on plan assets (exclusive of interest income). Because there are variances in actuarial assumptions used including discount rates, etc. between Japanese GAAP and IFRS, actuarial valuation was conducted in accordance with the provisions of IAS 19, and adjustments were made to net defined benefit liabilities and assets. As a result, losses of ¥3,273 million and ¥4,293 million were transferred from accumulated other comprehensive income to “Retained earnings” at the date of transition and March 31, 2019, respectively. “Net defined benefit liability” decreased by ¥2,399 million and ¥3,054 million at the date of transition and March 31, 2019, respectively. NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 149 150 Independent Auditor’s Report NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 151 152 Global Network Global Network Global Network (As of March 31, 2020) NGK SPARK PLUGS (THAILAND) CO., LTD. SIAM NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. NGK SPARK PLUG EUROPE GmbH NGK SPARK PLUGS (ASIA) CO., LTD. NGK SPARK PLUGS (UK) LTD. EUROPE TECHNICAL CENTER CHANGSHU NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Wells Vehicle Electronics, L.P. NTK TECHNICAL CERAMICS KOREA CO., LTD. NGK SPARK PLUGS (U.S.A.), LLC NGK SPARK PLUGS (EURASIA) WOOJIN INDUSTRY INC. (Headquarters) NGK SPARK PLUGS CO., LTD. U.S.A. TECHNICAL CENTER (FRANCE) NGK SPARK PLUG WOOJIN TECHNICAL S.A.S. (Headquarters) NGK SPARK PLUGS CANADA LIMITED MIDDLE EAST FZE CENTER NTK TECHNOLOGIES, INC. NGK SPARK PLUGS NGK SPARK PLUGS NGK SPARK PLUGS (U.S.A.) (FRANCE) (INDIA) PVT. LTD. HOLDING, INC. HEADQUARTERS S.A.S. (France Factory) NGK SPARK PLUG (SHANGHAI) NGK SPARK PLUGS (U.S.A.), INC. TRADING CO., LTD. TAIWAN NGK (West Virginia Factory) NGK SPARK PLUG SPARK PLUG (SHANGHAI) CO., LTD. BUJIAS NGK DE MEXICO S.A. DE C.V., CAIRE Inc. CO., LTD. NGK SPARK PLUGS MALAYSIA BERHAD Headquarters PT NGK BUSI INDONESIA Manufacturing & sales organization NGK SPARK PLUGS (PHILIPPINES), INC. Sales organization Technical center NGK SPARK PLUGS (VIETNAM) CO., LTD. Holding company CERAMICA E VELAS DE IGNICAO NGK DO BRASIL LTDA. NGK SPARK PLUGS SA (PTY) LTD NGK SPARK PLUG (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD. BRASIL TECHNICAL CENTER Domestic Network SAPPORO SALES OFFICE Domestic Network (As of March 31, 2020) NTK CERATEC CO., LTD. NAGANO LIAISON OFFICE SENDAI SALES OFFICE KAMIOKA CERAMIC CO., LTD. CS NAKATSUGAWA CO., LTD. Spark Tech TONO CO., LTD. UTSUNOMIYA LIAISON OFFICE KOMAKI PLANT CERAMIC SENSOR CO., LTD. SAITAMA LIAISON OFFICE Spark Tec WKS CO., LTD. NTK CERAMIC CO., LTD. MORIMURA SOFC TOKYO BRANCH TECHNOLOGY CO., LTD. CECYLLS CO., LTD. ATSUGI LIAISON OFFICE HIROSHIMA SALES OFFICE HAMAMATSU LIAISON OFFICE FUKUOKA SALES OFFICE HEADQUARTERS & NAGOYA PLANT NICHIWA KIKI CO., LTD. MIYANOJO PLANT ISE PLANT NITTOKU DENSHI CO., LTD. Headquarters/Plant NANSEI CERAMIC CO., LTD. NITTOKU ALPHA SERVICE CO., LTD. Sales office NITTOKU SMILE CO., LTD. OSAKA SALES OFFICE Group company SHARING FACTORY CO., LTD. NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 153 154 Corporate Profile and Stock Information / Independent Verification Report Corporate data (As of March 31, 2020) Breakdown of shareholders by type (As of March 31, 2020) Independent Verification Report Treasury Stock Financial Institutions NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. 0.16% 26.20% Headquarters 14-18 Takatsuji-cho, Mizuho-ku,Nagoya 467(324 Thousand Shares) (53,487 Thousand Shares) 8525, Japan Individuals and Others in Japan Trust Services Established October 1936 Breakdown of 25.39% 9.96% (20,330 Thousand Shares) (51,844 Thousand Number of Non-consolidated: 5,883Consolidated: 16,430 shareholders Shares) employees Foreign Corporations by type and Individuals (59,084 Thousand Shares) Securities Companies 2.32% Number of employees at work (consolidated) (As of March 31, 2020) Other Corporations in Japan (4,728 Thousand (Number of employee) (14,378 Thousand Shares) Shares) 20,000 15,994 16,430 15,000 14,524 14,926 15,322 Major shareholders (As of March 31, 2020) Number of 10,000 Name of shareholder shares held Ownership ratio (%) (thousand) 5,000 Meiji Yasuda Life Insurance Company 16,794 8.23 0 The Dai-ichi Life Insurance Company, Limited 16,752 8.21 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) The Master Trust Bank of Japan, Ltd. (trust account) 16,298 7.99 Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. Number of shares and shareholders (As of March 31, 2020) (trust account) 8,136 3.99 Paid-in capital 47,869 million yen National Mutual Insurance Federation of Agriculture 7,964 3.90 Total number of authorized shares 390,000,000 Cooperatives Total number of issued shares 204,175,320 MUFG Bank, Ltd. 4,380 2.14 Tokyo Stock Exchange and Nagoya The Nomura Trust and Banking Co., Ltd. (investment trust account) 4,118 2.02 Listed market Stock Exchange (First Section) The Master Trust Bank of Japan, Ltd. Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking Cor(for Toyota Motor Corporation) 3,929 1.92 Shareholder registry administrator poration Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. Accounting auditor KPMG AZSA LLC (trust account 9) 3,659 1.79 Number of shareholders 17,484 Nippon Life Insurance Company 3,563 1.74 Note: Ownership ratio above is calculated excluding treasury stock. Stock price and trading volume (As of September 30, 2020) Stock price of NGK SPARK PLUG The Nikkei 225 (Yen) (Yen) 4,000 25,000 3,200 20,000 2,400 15,000 1,600 10,000 800 5,000 0 0 ■ Trading volume (Million shares) 50 40 30 20 10 0 10 11 12 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 (Year) Note: Trading volume above does not include data for trading via the ToSTNet system. NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 NGK SPARK PLUG CO., LTD. Integrated Report 2020 155 156
