2020 Annual Report SUNRICE ANNUAL REPORT 2020 / A About This Report The SunRice Group continuously seeks to improve the way we topics under seven focus areas that the business can relate to communicate long-term sustainable value to A and B Class and affect meaningful change in over time. For FY2020, these shareholders and other important stakeholders. This year focus areas and approaches are described in Our Approach to we have integrated our financial and non-financial reporting to provide information on all aspects of our performance in one report, the Annual Report, supported where required by Sustainability on pages 27 38. Material topics are also discussed in the Our Approach to Risk section of this report on pages 39 44 and in the SunRice Stakeholder Engagement Statement Contents supplementary information (see Reports Portfolio). www.sunrice.com.au/sustainability-reports. Reporting boundary and period 2020 reports portfolio 3 15 49 SunRice’s Annual Report covers Ricegrowers Limited ABN • Annual Report – provides information on SunRice, including 55007481156 and its controlled entities. Unless otherwise stated governance, strategy, key risks, financial and non-financial all disclosures in the Annual Report relate to the Financial Year performance, and includes the Annual Directors’ Report ended 30 April 2020 (FY2020). In this report, ‘the year’, ‘this year’, and Annual Financial Report. www.sunrice.com.au/annual‘crop year 2019’ and ‘CY19’ all refer to FY2020. The ‘2020 harvest’, reports ‘crop year 2020’ and ‘CY20’ all refer to the rice crop harvested in • Interim (Half Yearly) Financial Report – provides Chairman’s Our Brands Corporate 2020, which will be processed and marketed in the Financial Year information on SunRice’s half-yearly financial and nonReport and Products Governance ending 30 April 2021 (FY2021). ‘SunRice’, ‘SunRice Group’, ‘Group’, ‘we’ and ‘our’ refer to Ricegrowers Limited ABN 55007481156 and financial performance and outlook. www.sunrice.com.au/ Overview financial-reports its controlled entities, as defined in this report. 5 17 57 • Corporate Governance Statement – provides an online overview of our policies, procedures and practices to ensure Reporting frameworks application of all the ASX Corporate Governance Principles and Recommendations (3rd Edition). www.sunrice.com.au/ The FY2020 Financial Report (on pages 76 126) and Directors’ corporate-governance Report (on pages 57 74) have been prepared in accordance with Australian Accounting Standards and Interpretations issued by Other reports and information 70 Years of Our Financial Directors’ the Australian Accounting Standards Board and the Corporations Act 2001. The Operating and Financial Review, which is a • Sustainability information – provides further online Innovation Performance Report required element of the Directors’ Report, can be found on pages information on SunRice’s sustainability strategy, performance and Position 7 27 75 11 46 and includes the Our World, Our Strategy, Our Financial and future plans. www.sunrice.com.au/sustainability-reports Performance and Position, Our Approach to Sustainability, Our • GRI Index – is a summary of how SunRice has addressed Approach to Risk and Our Outlook sections. each of the GRI reporting core standards, with references The content of the Our Approach to Sustainability section forms to where the detailed information can be located across part of SunRice’s application of the Global Reporting Initiative the 2020 reports portfolio. www.sunrice.com.au/ (GRI) Core standards for FY2020. The GRI Standards are the sustainability-reports CEO’s Our Auditor’s world’s most widely used standards for sustainability reporting. • Other information – presentations and announcements Report Approach to Independence made to stakeholders during the year. www.sunrice.com.au/ The GRI index (see Reports Portfolio) highlights where required Sustainability Declaration 9 39 76 FY2020 GRI Core disclosures can be found. The sustainability presentations disclosures in this report and the information in SunRice’s sustainability website www.sunrice.com.au/sustainability serve About SunRice’s structure as our Communication on Progress for the United Nations (UN) Global Compact. The structure of Ricegrowers Limited (SunRice) contains nonstandard elements including its dual class share structure comprising A Class Shares and B Class Shares. About Our Approach Financial Report assurance A Class Shares confer on their holders the right to vote at SunRice to Risk Report The Remuneration report on pages 59 73 and the Financial general meetings but no right to dividends. A Class Shares are 11 45 128 Report on pages 76 126 have been audited by PwC Australia. not quoted on ASX and may only be held by Active Growers. All other disclosures in the Annual Report have been subject The right to vote is based on one member, one vote and no to SunRice’s internal review and approval processes by person may hold more than five (5) A Class Shares. In practical management, the executive and the Board, as appropriate. terms the voting rights held by A Class shareholders give those shareholders the right to control the election of directors and any Stakeholder engagement and materiality changes to SunRice’s Constitution. Our Our Outlook Independent B Class Shares are quoted on ASX and confer on their holders SunRice undertakes a materiality process to identify the issues the right to receive dividends, as determined by the directors World Auditor’s that are significant to the business and to key stakeholders. The from time to time. Holders of B Class Shares do not have the right Report 13 47 133 135 2018 materiality assessment for FY2019 reporting included 26 stakeholder interviews and a detailed documentary review. It to vote at general meetings of SunRice and may only vote on identified stakeholders’ material topics which were considered proposals involving a variation to their class rights or if required by senior management using the criteria of relevance, control, for the purposes of the ASX Listing Rules. This means B Class influence and impact for discussion in SunRice’s FY2019 reports shareholders have no right to vote on the election of directors of portfolio. SunRice. No person may hold more than 10 per cent of the total During the FY2020 reporting period, SunRice undertook a detailed number of B Class Shares on issue. Our Corporate Shareholder Corporate review of the material topics with the senior leaders of the For more details of the non-standard elements of SunRice’s Strategy Management Information Directory business. This process resulted in SunRice grouping the material structure see investors.sunrice.com.au. Team SUNRICE ANNUAL REPORT 2020 / 1 SUNRICE ANNUAL REPORT 2020 / 2 The Australian rice industry remains the backbone of SunRice’s heritage. We have not only endured, but thrived, for 70 years and will continue to do so. FY2020 Highlights Chairman’s Report As we celebrate 70 years of SunRice, I acknowledge that FY2020 Despite assurances contained in the 2004 National Water 33 cents Fully franked dividend per B Class Share was a challenging year. Ongoing low rice production in Australia Initiative, the burden of these NSW and Federal reforms are not and deteriorating conditions in key global markets impacted the being shared equally. This, combined with the complexity and Group. Few companies would be able to retain their profitability lack of clarity in the water allocation process, has led to a loss of when faced with such a dramatic reduction in the availability of confidence by our Riverina growers. As such, the Board intensified their core input. This certainly highlights the underlying resilience its advocacy efforts with the NSW and Federal Governments of our company and the performance of our management team. in FY2020 to address these unintended consequences and will continue to do so in FY2021 in conjunction with the RGA. Not only has the Board focused on the Riverina cyclical downturn; 6.4% Dividend yield1 but also, for the past three years, the execution of the Group’s Beyond our focus on Group strategic direction and performance, 2022 Growth Strategy. This is designed to strengthen and grow the there were changes to Board membership following the Grower company to provide sufficient scale to navigate challenges and Director Elections and a review of Board composition, size and meet the needs of customers in a dynamic global environment. In tenure during FY2020. This included welcoming new NonFY2020 we continued to leverage the Group’s strong balance sheet executive Grower Directors Jeremy Morton and Julian Zanatta, to pursue strategic growth and build value for our growers and who replaced retiring Non-executive Grower Directors Glen investors following our listing on the ASX in FY2019. Andreazza and Mark Robertson. CY19 paddy price for medium grain Reiziq Despite the operational challenges of FY2020, the Board As a Board, we also strengthened our risk management $500 declared a fully franked dividend of 33 cents per B Class Share, framework and continued to monitor the Group’s performance per representing a dividend yield of 6.4 per cent1. This was largely made possible due to the diversification of earnings across the under the Board’s 2017 Sustainability Charter. This included our commitment to mitigating the risks of a variable climate and the tonne Group’s portfolio and our global sourcing capabilities in a year in approval of a new SunRice Supplier Sustainability Code. We are which Australian crop was scarce. well placed to issue our first Modern Slavery Statement in FY2021. Understanding the impact of low water availability and high As FY2020 closed, COVID-19 demonstrated that the Australian CY19 paddy price for organic varieties water prices on our A Class grower shareholders, the Board public will demand access to their preferred staple foods in times $1,350 exercised its discretion to defer the redemption of A Class Shares of crisis. The cleanout of rice from supermarket shelves in the per during the year. In order to incentivise production to maintain baseline Riverina operations, our growers were offered fixed price first weeks was a stark example of the importance of our rice industry, not only to Australia, but also potentially to our nearest tonne contracts of $500 per paddy tonne for medium grain Reiziq and up neighbours. Our rice industry has taken nearly a century to build to $1,350 per paddy tonne for organic varieties in CY19. However, and should not be taken for granted. With reasonable access only 54,000 paddy tonnes were harvested, a 91 per cent reduction to water, we can play a significant role in the recovery of rural on the 623,000 tonnes harvested the prior year. In August 2019, Australia post COVID-19. SunRice celebrates 70 years the Board took the decision to offer record fixed price contracts to I am proud to be Chairman of a company that has consistently stimulate CY20 plantings. This crop, harvested in mid-2020, was demonstrated resilience and innovation across multiple cycles of smaller again, at approximately 45,000 tonnes. adversity and opportunity. We have not only endured, but thrived, The Board is cognisant that the impact of low production is for 70 years and will continue to do so. not only felt by our growers, but across our NSW rice growing I thank my fellow Directors, our growers, shareholders, the RGA regions. In crop years of around 600,000 tonnes, SunRice directly and RMB and our dedicated team, led ably by CEO Rob Gordon, contributes close to $400 million to the Riverina economy in the for ensuring the company’s continued success. I look forward to form of payments to growers, shareholders, employees and other the journey ahead. suppliers. In contrast, in crop years such as those we are currently experiencing, our direct contribution is significantly smaller. While there have been ongoing drought conditions, there is growing evidence that the allocation yield of NSW General Security water entitlements has been significantly eroded as a by-product of Australian water reform. Laurie Arthur SunRice Chairman 1. Based on the applicable B Class Share price at 30 April 2020. SUNRICE ANNUAL REPORT 2020 / 3 SUNRICE ANNUAL REPORT 2020 / 4 70 Years 2010s 2001 of Innovation CY01 sees a record 2000s 1.8 million tonnes of paddy rice harvested, SunRice’s biggest rice Brandon Mill in North Queensland SunRice becomes the crop in history. is aquired to From the entrepreneurial spirit new trading name for supplement 1920s 1960s 1990s 2005 RCL and the company supply of Riverina of a group of Riverina rice commissions a rice. Ricegrowers 2018 growers pooling their money to new Rice Flour Growers vote to Singapore Pte Ltd fund a single rice mill in 1950, The Murrumbidgee Coleambally Mill Solomons Rice Mill at Leeton. The change the cois incorporated to A and B Class construction of operative’s structure. extend markets shareholders vote to to the truly global food group Irrigation Area is built. Company Limited RCL registers as a list SunRice on the (SolRice) is aquired SunRice’s Specialty and global sourcing we are today, SunRice’s journey Ricegrowers’ 1970s to further expand Rice Foods plant for company in 2005 and capabilities across ASX in 2018, with Co-operative Society spans 70 years of innovation. and rice industry markets for Riverina microwave-ready changes its name to Asia. the company being rice. A second mill products in Leeton Ricegrowers Limited. admitted to the infrastructure are 1980s begins. It later lists on the Official List of ASX in established. The Rice Deniliquin Mill is opens in Deniliquin NSX in 2007. 2010 2019. Marketing Board built. for brown rice for the State of New only, which is later In CY10, growers South Wales (RMB) is upgraded to a brown achieve an average Some RMB and RCM later formed in 1928. and white rice mill. yield of 11 tonnes per functions are amalgamated hectare for the first and RCM is now known as A new speciality rice time. Ricegrowers’ Co-operative variety, Koshihikari, Limited (RCL). RCL begins a is successfully program of diversification developed and 2011 towards value added launched for the 1900s 1950 CY11 sees harvest products, including rice Japanese rice tonnages rebound cakes, rice bran and market. to 800,000 tonnes of horticultural products. The Ricegrowers’ paddy rice. Riviana Foods The Murrumbidgee Rice Research Australia Pty SunRice diversifies acquires Roza’s Irrigation Area (MIA Association (RGA) 1970 2008 1880s Ltd (RRAPL) is established its business portfolio Gourmet. SunRice Scheme) is launched Central Executive for the purposes of carrying 2012 acquires a rice forms the Ricegrowers’ Rice Growers Australia and global sourcing Off the back of the and Japanese exout rice research and Co-operative Mills Limited, which program to ensure Millennium Drought, SunRice hits $1 billion processing mill in parliamentarian, development and a Rice Limited (hereafter, later became Trukai continued growth the CY08 harvest in turnover in FY2012. Dong Thap Province in Introduction of rice Isaburo (Jo) RCM), which would Industries Limited, is Cakes Plant is built at Leeton and prosperity, is just over 19,000 Vietnam’s Mekong Delta. seed into Australian Takasuka begins to manufacture value added tonnes of paddy gold fields by rice cultivation near later become RCL established in Papua rice products. including new 2016 2019 and then SunRice. New Guinea (PNG) to rice flour, snacks, rice, a record low. Chinese prospectors. Swan Hill. extend markets for microwave rice and Coleambally and Riviana Foods CopRice acquires the Riverina rice. ready-to-go meal Deniliquin Mills are acquires Fehlbergs assets of Australian offerings. placed into care Fine Foods. rice bran manufacturer and maintenance FeedRite to expand its Aqaba Processing during 2007 with pet food capabilities. Company is significant job losses. established to A $10 million stabilised SunRice recovered service markets into bran processing plant in subsequent years Jordan. A majority opens in Leeton to with Deniliquin Mill shareholding in benefit the CopRice reopening in 2010. 1993 SunFoods is acquired and Rice Food in the U.S. to segments. Riviana Foods is diversify rice supply 2017 aquired to diversify 2020 in times of drought, SunRice becomes RCL’s investment 1977 1950s with the remaining a member of the portfolio, including CopRice is acquired share later acquired UN Global Compact non-rice products. to process and sell rice in 2016. SunRice also Network Australia. SunRice celebrates milling by-products. acquires the paddy Mills are built at 70 years. storage facilities Leeton and at from RMB, increasing CopRice converts other sites across vertical integration Coleambally Mill into the Riverina and and facilitating a ruminant feed mill, Murray regions, and whole of supply the largest of its kind the Co-operative chain management. in Australia. launches its own branded retail pack of Sunwhite rice. SUNRICE ANNUAL REPORT 2020 / 5 SUNRICE ANNUAL REPORT 2020 / 6 Significant progress was made against our 2022 Growth Strategy, with the FY2020 pursuit of new merger and acquisition Highlights opportunities to further diversify and Group Revenue increase earnings. $1.1bn CEO’s Report FY2020 was an extraordinary year. As a Group, we faced multiple challenges, not least of which were the second With respect to our 2022 Growth Strategy, significant progress was made in FY2020 despite the challenging context. Highlights Net Profit After Tax smallest Australian rice crop on record at the time, deteriorating included our Lap Vo Mill in Vietnam achieving profitability in its $22.7m conditions in international markets and the impact of first full year of operation, further diversifying our supply sources successive natural disasters. to include South America and the optimisation of existing and new assets to capitalise on market trends. To date, our SunRice responded with a significant coordinated effort, prudent capital management has enabled us to pursue these demonstrating the agility, resilience and diversification we growth opportunities organically. As a result, we have a strong have built into our business. balance sheet and access to debt facilities, which will enable us In our Profit Businesses, the Group’s international sourcing to pursue new merger and acquisition opportunities to further Kantar TNS Brand Health Tracking capability was rapidly flexed in response to the small Australian diversify and increase earnings. Top 4% ranked SunRice in the crop. The strategic expansion of our supply chains, in line with In line with our strategy, new Low GI offerings were launched our growth strategy, allowed us to backfill key markets and into Asian markets in FY2020 and our healthier rice-based maintain continuity of supply. It is an outstanding achievement snacks range was extended and launched in the Middle East and to be able to successfully meet global demand for SunRice Asia. Our marketing programs tapped into the universal appeal product in excess of 1 million paddy tonnes, with only 5 per of rice across cultures, with popular Australian TV chef Poh Ling cent of this volume available from the CY19 Riverina harvest of the most iconic FMCG and is a clear demonstration of our strategy in action. Despite Yeow and leading nutritionist Lyndi Cohen continuing in their roles as SunRice brand ambassadors. brands in Australia these gains, difficult and deteriorating economic conditions in our Pacific markets, coupled with aggressive competitor pricing FY2020 also saw a strong focus on embedding sustainability strategies significantly weighed against Group performance. across our operations. SunRice is committed to supporting the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and is a signatory In our Australian Rice Pool Business, a further restructure of to the UN Global Compact. Continued improvements are also SunRice’s Riverina operations was undertaken in FY2020 in line being seen across our health and safety training and company with low production levels. Despite these measures, the Rice culture, demonstrating our action in these important areas. Pool was unable to absorb all of its overheads and recorded a loss in FY2020, which also impacted overall Group profitability. 70 years of operation is an outstanding achievement for any company. However, when you consider the evolution that’s As FY2020 closed, we were faced with the impacts of the taken place over those decades – from the early growers who COVID-19 pandemic, which delivered negative foreign exchange formed a cooperative in 1950, to the diversified ASX-listed global movements and supply chain disruption, with the Vietnam group we are today – it is poignant that SunRice was recognised and Cambodian governments placing export restrictions on as one of Australia’s most iconic FMCG brands during this rice. While there were increases in consumer demand across landmark year. many of our markets, these gains were largely offset by a rapid deterioration in food service sales. During this time, our It is a privilege to continue to lead SunRice into the future. focus remained on the wellbeing of our global workforce, who I thank all employees, growers, investors and our Board of demonstrated great commitment and care in response to Directors for your ongoing support as we look forward to our dynamic conditions. next phase of growth. At 30 April 2020, revenue was $1.13 billion, down $58 million or 5 per cent on FY2019. Net Profit After Tax (NPAT) was $22.7 million, down $10.1 million or 31 per cent on the prior period. Given the challenging circumstances, these results are a credit to the Group’s diversification and risk mitigation strategies, and I thank our team for their flexibility and resilience in delivering for both Rob Gordon our growers and shareholders in this environment. SunRice CEO SUNRICE ANNUAL REPORT 2020 / 7 SUNRICE ANNUAL REPORT 2020 / 8 About SunRice Our values drive our approach. We are Dynamic. We act with The SunRice Group is a major military, mining and healthcare Integrity. We contribute Australian branded food company with markets; stockfeed and companion approximately 2000 employees across animal nutrition; and are a food to our Community. We multiple businesses. With more than ingredients supplier to manufacturers are Collaborative. And 30 major brands in around 50 countries of household brands across multiple across the world, our operations and sectors. we pursue Innovation assets span Australia, New Zealand, in everything we do. SunRice’s Constitution, our business the Middle East, the United States, model and our growth journey PNG, the Pacific Islands and Asia. throughout the past 70 years reflect the We’re proud to have built a diversified Group’s heritage, as well as our focus As set out in our Constitution, SunRice’s business with direct access to on the future. objectives are to improve the prices we Australia’s key Riverina rice growing pay our A Class shareholders (growers) region, as well as multiple global and to increase returns for our B Class supply sources serving a growing Our Vision and Values shareholders (investors). However as a portfolio of products and consumers. With roots in Australia’s food bowl, business, we strive to deliver value to all of In addition to our specialisation in we’re proud to nourish discerning our stakeholders, including the communities branded rice and rice-based foods, we consumers around the world, who and environments in which we operate. See participate in gourmet Mediterranean trust the traceability and provenance ‘Our Approach to Sustainability’ on pages 27 foods; food service supply for of our premium branded products. 38 for this approach in action. Our Business Model Our objective is to optimise returns Our Stakeholders In line with our evolution as a for both classes of shareholders through We are committed to providing our stakeholders with Government company, SunRice’s structure protects the complementary Rice Pool and credible, transparent and timely information as we and regulators: the interests of our investors, who have Profit Businesses, which have mutually seek to create and sustain value in all we do. The governments and regulators the right to receive dividends; and our SunRice’s Stakeholder Engagement Statement, A Class shareholders, who must be beneficial links and purposes including material topics, can be found at: that have jurisdiction over the Shareholders: Active Growers and who have control www.sunrice.com.au/sustainability-reports regions in which we operate or Our A Class shareholders, who of the company. This separation is intend to operate. control SunRice, and our B achieved through the division of Class shareholders, who have SunRice into two broad business the right to receive a dividend Community: if declared. groups – the proceeds of SunRice’s Profit Businesses benefit our The local communities in which we operate. B Class shareholders and the proceeds Peers: of the Rice Pool Business are paid out Peer companies which to A Class shareholders and growers following the sale of their rice. While A Class shareholders B Class shareholders SunRice engages with All food and on mutually beneficial separate, the two business groups Growers Investors initiatives. non-food suppliers, complement each other, strengthening the alignment between our investors including growers: and growers. The people and enterprises from which we purchase our rice and Rice Pool Business Profit Businesses Media and analysts: other food products, as well as Analysts and local, national other goods and services. Receival, International Rice, and international media outlets milling & selling Rice Food, Riviana Foods, which cover SunRice, or our of Riverina Rice Shared costs CopRice & Corporate subsidiaries, and the rice Asset Financing industry. Revenue – Expenses Charge Revenue – Expenses = Paddy Price Brand use charges = Profit Non-Government Organisations (NGOs): Employees: Advocacy groups and other peak Our team of ~2000, who Payments for paddy rice to Dividends to work in our businesses bodies of which SunRice is a Customers around the world. A Class shareholders B Class shareholders member, or works closely with. and growers and consumers: Groups which purchase our products for consumption or More information about our business model can be found at: use in a value add product. www.sunrice.com.au/information-memorandum SUNRICE ANNUAL REPORT 2020 / 9 SUNRICE ANNUAL REPORT 2020 / 10 Our World We are proud of our performance and our contribution to the global communities within which we operate. We aspire to be a leader in our sector, setting an example for our peers. This section outlines our global context – the challenges and opportunities we see as a global SunFoods, California, USA business group. This is the world Italy Aqaba Processing Company (APC), Jordan Every day, more than ever, within which we operate and these factors inform our decision-making USA a growing number of people and shape our strategy and risk SunFoods, Hawaii, USA China need a stable, trustworthy management activities as we continue to strive to deliver positive outcomes Pakistan Taiwan supply of nutritious foods for our stakeholders. India Myanmar that are grown in ways that Thailand Cambodia Vietnam help regenerate the environRicegrowers Middle East Trukai Industries, ment and support local Papua New Guinea communities. Our Global Context Ricegrowers Singapore Growing demand The rise of the SolRice, Ricegrowers Vietnam Solomon Islands for health, wellness Asian consumer and nutrition According to the International Monetary Supply sources Australia Supply chain stress Natural, sustainable, organic, healthy Fund, Asia’s emerging and developing Uruguay Global offices Ongoing shifts to global trade, tariffs food is experiencing rapid growth economies grew by an estimated 5.6 per and assets cent in 2019.6 This increases demand and free trade agreements as well as worldwide, part of a broader shift to Existing markets SunRice, CopRice, for quality food products, but can also visibility and labour supply are just health and wellness. Globally, wellness AGS, Riviana Foods, Ricegrowers bring health challenges such as obesity Target markets some of the supply chain challenges is now a $4.5T market.2 If it were a and diabetes, which are more typically Population and/or new offerings Australia New Zealand that require ongoing consideration and country, this would make Wellness in existing markets associated with western diets. There The global population is expected response. around the 4th largest economy in the world. The movement away from is growing evidence that low glycemic to reach 9.8 billion by 2050 and sugars, gluten and animal protein has index (GI) diets have a variety of positive exceed 11.2 billion by 2100.11 Global A global waste crisis Poverty, slavery, Chemicals and health outcomes7. SunRice exports its agriculture must meet this increased led to growth in demand for rice flour, low GI rice Doongara to a number of demand with the same amount of The world produces more than and inequality pesticides bran, plant proteins and syrups. countries in Asia. resources. 300 million tonnes of plastic every year, The International Labour Organisation According to the World Health 50 per cent of which is for single-use estimates that 24.9 million people Organization, ‘there are more than Trust, traceability purposes. More than 8 million tonnes worldwide are victims of forced 1000 pesticides used around the world... Food security Climate change and transparency of plastic is dumped into our oceans labour18 – around the population of Pesticides are among the leading According to the 2019 Report from the Australia’s Department of Agriculture, every year.14 It has been estimated Australia. While world poverty is in causes of death by self-poisoning, in The rise of the internet and new that, by 2050, there could be more Food and Agriculture Organisation of Water and Environment has stated, steady decline, the pace of poverty particular in lowand middle-income technologies such as Blockchain plastic in the ocean than fish.15 the United Nations,8 9.2 percent of the ‘climate change poses challenges for reduction is slowing19. In 2015, 736 countries.’ Agricultural workers are have created growing expectations world’s population (or slightly more than all sectors of the Australian economy million people were still living on less most at risk.22 and a genuine search for food safety but particularly for those sectors assurances among society. Food 700 million people) were exposed to Water scarcity than US$1.90 per day20 and in 2017, severe levels of food insecurity in 2018. dependent on natural resources, like the global population suffering from traceability is one of the major food Consistent, quality supply of staples like agriculture, forestry and fisheries’.12 This More than 1 of every 10 people on Epidemics and hunger rose for the third consecutive trends for 2020, according to the rice have the power to improve this. is echoed by the Food and Agriculture the planet lack basic drinking water year to 821 million.21 pandemics International Food Information Council Organisation of the United Nations.13 access.16 According to United Nations Foundation.3 As COVID-19 is showing, a single Water, ‘water has to be treated as a pandemic has the power to infect large Habitat loss scarce resource, with a far stronger portions of our global population in Demographic shifts and biodiversity focus on managing demand.’17 a short period of time, significantly 2. www.globalwellnessinstitute.org/press-room/statistics-and-facts Simplifying the business of life and Habitat loss is the main threat to disrupt society and challenge even 3. www.foodinsight.org/2020-trends taking personal control is demanding 85 per cent of species designated as 4. www.playmr.com.au/blog/fmcg-trends-the-snacking-revolution the most established businesses and 14. www.plasticoceans.org/the-facts product that is functional, nutritious ‘threatened’ or ‘endangered’ by the 5. www.grandviewresearch.com/industry-analysis/chilled-deli-food-market 15. www.ellenmacarthurfoundation.org/publications/the-new-plastics-economy-rethinkingsupply chains. 6. www.imf.org/en/Publications/WEO/Issues/2020/01/20/weo-update-january2020 the-future-of-plastics-catalysing-action and natural, without compromising International Union for Conservation 7. www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0939475315001271 16. www.worldvision.org/clean-water-news-stories/global-water-crisis-facts health goals, flavours or ingredients.4 of Nature’s Red List.9 According to 8. www.fao.org/state-of-food-security-nutrition 17. www.unwater.org/water-facts/scarcity This trend is driving innovation in the the World Wide Fund for Nature10, 9. www.iucnredlist.org 18. www.ilo.org/global/topics/forced-labour/lang--en/index.htm development of premium globallyincreasing food production is a major 10. wwf.panda.org/our_work/wildlife/problems/habitat_loss_degradation 19. www.worldbank.org/en/news/press-release/2019/10/17/poverty-continues-to-decline11. www.un.org/sustainabledevelopment/blog/2017/06/world-populationbut-pace-of-poverty-reduction-is-slowing-in-central-asia inspired ready-meals, pre-made tasting agent for the conversion of natural projected-to-reach-9-8-billion-in-2050-and-11-2-billion-in-2100-says-un 20. www.worldbank.org/en/topic/poverty/overview plates and deli snacks.5 habitat into agricultural land. 12. www.agriculture.gov.au/ag-farm-food/climatechange 21. www.un.org/sustainabledevelopment/goal-of-the-month-archive/goal-of-the-month-october-2019 13. www.fao.org/climate-change/en 22. www.who.int/news-room/fact-sheets/detail/pesticide-residues-in-food SUNRICE ANNUAL REPORT 2020 / 11 SUNRICE ANNUAL REPORT 2020 / 12 Our Strategy Our 2022 Growth Strategy is designed to cement the SunRice Group’s position as a truly international and diversified FMCG business to the benefit of our investors, our growers, our employees and the communities in which we operate. Our objectives are to We understand that our investment in sustainability 1. Improve the price we pay our growers and is key to delivering our 2022 Growth Strategy. 2. Increase returns for our shareholders by... That’s why our Sustainability Strategy, developed under our Sustainability Charter, focuses on supporting the strengths of our core business. Challenges This includes our ability to generate sustainable returns for key stakeholders and intersect with societal, community and global needs through our • Medium grain rice profitability affected Steven and Jackie Cremasco focus on the environment, community and nourishing Increasing Adapting Securing by increased foreign competition. Widgelli rice growers products. This is described in more detail in profits and reducing our product range to take a sustainable and • Volatility of Australian supply. ‘Our Approach to Sustainability’ on pages 27 38. earnings volatility advantage of changing reliable global • Alternative crops are competing for limited Details of SunRice’s performance against strategy food trends supply chain water and land. in FY2020 are reported in Our Financial Performance • Market diversification and access. and Position on pages 19 20. More information about our 2022 Growth Strategy can be found Foreign exchange volatility. in the Ricegrowers Ltd ASX-listing Information Economic conditions. Memorandum www.sunrice.com.au/ Increasing global competition. What success information-memorandum. How we’re doing this looks like 1 Cementing a global supply chain 4 in response to increased demand Strong financials Being recognised for our high in branded products, ensuring Double our revenue by 202223 and maintain performance, delivered by quality and sustainability. 2 a positive, inclusive and double digit returns on capital employed. accountable culture. Premium branded player Repositioning Australia as the 5 Leverage our reputation for quality and supply source of choice for Maintaining and growing a innovation in premium varietals, healthy premium branded rice markets. strong, cash-generative and eating and snacking. 3 diverse portfolio, including Asian presence Using our capabilities to meet CopRice and Riviana. Expand sales in high-growth Asian evolving global food trends, especially in healthy eating and consumer markets. snacking, in particular through: Diversified earnings Expand our CopRice and Riviana Foods • Diversifying into new markets to offer segments through strategic growth high-quality and convenient packaged rice opportunities. of trusted provenance. Food ingredients expansion • Playing a pioneering role in addressing Build our tailored food ingredients offering the obesity and diabetes epidemics with to service industrial customers. our unique Low GI rice. Resilient global supply chain • Leveraging our unique position to take Secure a multi-varietal and resilient global advantage of the global fascination with sushi. supply chain with Australian growers at • Being recognised as a leader in healthy its centre. snacking through a range of innovative snacks. 23 As previously advised, we anticipate this revenue target will take longer to achieve (see Our Outlook section). • Operating a strong food ingredients business with diversified, high-value rice derivatives servicing global food companies. • Assurance of quality and sustainability with traceability, no matter where we grow our rice. SUNRICE ANNUAL REPORT 2020 / 13 SUNRICE ANNUAL REPORT 2020 / 14 Our Brands Rice Pool Business and Products Supplying premium branded Australian rice, built on With more than 30 major brands and a provenance and our heritage. portfolio of more than 1100 products, the SunRice Group has been creating nutritious products for 70 years. Our business segments, #1 rice brand in Australia & New Zealand grocery product mix and markets are directly aligned rice brand in Australian to our 2022 Growth Strategy. BRAND® #1 food service channels Profit Businesses International Rice Rice Food Riviana Foods & CopRice A growing global supply Innovation in healthy snacking Expanding our strong, cash-generative diverse portfolio. chain, delivering quality and food ingredients aligned and sustainability. to global food trends. #1 rice brand in PNG and the Solomon Islands 2019 Australian Independent Rural Retailers National Supplier microwave rice brand #1 medium grain rice brand in the Middle East #1 in Australia #1 olives brand in Australia of the Year A leading supplier of third party rice brand across 10 other rice cakes brand in pickled vegetables brand pet food products to grocery and #1 Pacific Island markets #1 Australia and New Zealand #1 in Australia pet specialty stores For more information about our brands and products, see: www.sunrice.com.au/about-us/our-brands SUNRICE ANNUAL REPORT 2020 / 15 SUNRICE ANNUAL REPORT 2020 / 16 $531.4m International Rice Our Financial Profit Businesses Performance Rice Pool Business $1.13bn Consolidated Group Revenue $99.6m and Position $223.2m Rice Food Rice Pool $136.6m 1.13 1.19 907.5 863.6 223.2 325.9 22.7 32.8 XX XX Riviana Foods SunRice Group Overview $139.9m CopRice In a year where SunRice celebrated 70 years of 2020 2019 2020 2019 2020 2019 2020 2019 2020 2019 However, widespread lockdowns imposed by governments significantly impacted the food service industry in a number of our markets. There The continuous degradation of foreign exchange (mainly AUD and PGK against USD and EUR) also impacted the profitability of a number of our operation, our proud history Consolidated Group Profit Businesses Rice Pool Business Group Net Profit were also broader impacts to international rice supply chains, both from segments in FY2020. This included the Rice Food and Riviana segments of innovation and resilience Revenue Revenue Revenue After Tax a supply and demand perspective. In Vietnam, which is a key SunRice supply market, the Vietnamese Government placed restrictions on and the Trukai, SolRice and Global Rice arms of our International Rice segment, all of which are net importers. However, at a Group level this ($bn) ($m) ($m) ($m) were brought to bear in the rice exports from 23 March to 30 April 2020. Cambodia also introduced was broadly offset by the positive impact this foreign exchange trend face of significant challenges Group financial performance restrictions on exports of some rice varieties. As a Group, SunRice had on the Rice Pool's exports, despite the lower volume of Riverina rice responded with a significant coordinated effort, further flexing our available compared to FY2019. experienced across the Revenue for the year ended 30 April 2020 (FY2020) was $1.13 billion, down international supply chain capability to maintain continuity of supply 5 per cent on FY2019. Revenue from external customers attributable to our Additionally, In FY2019, the devaluing Kina, for which no hedging Group, not least of which Profit Businesses was $907.5 million, up 5 per cent on FY2019. Revenue and ensure demand continued to be met in key markets. The Group opportunities currently exist, had exposed the Group to a foreign also successfully managed a range of operational challenges that varied were the ongoing drought from external customers attributable to our Rice Pool Business was $223.2 across some of its key markets and included impacts to global shipping. exchange loss of approximately $5 million, compared to a loss of million, down 32 per cent on FY2019. Net Profit After Tax (NPAT) was $22.7 approximately $1.5 million in FY2020. Other non-recurring items in FY2019 conditions in Australia and million, down 31 per cent on FY2019. This occurred at the same time as a significant portion of our nonincluded gains from investment property revaluations (including from operational office-based workforce was transitioned to remote working in deteriorating conditions in Wide reaching drought impacts line with Government advice. the Group’s associate Pagini Holding), which were largely offset by costs key global markets. Restricted water allocations and high water prices significantly impacted In our global manufacturing facilities, we responded to COVID-19 incurred as part of the ASX listing and the provision for a bad debt in our Pacific markets. our Australian Rice Pool Business in FY2020, resulting in the 2019 crop In light of the challenging circumstances detailed restrictions by enacting our Business Continuity Plans, implementing new (CY19) being the second smallest on record at the time, with a total of Other operating expenses in this section, SunRice’s FY2020 Financial Results working arrangements to protect the health and wellbeing of our staff, 54,000 paddy tonnes of Riverina rice harvested. Combined with the fixed In response to the challenging trading conditions experienced in FY2020, demonstrate the Group’s continued focus on while maintaining production at the highest levels possible. This included price contracts offered to growers in CY19, this resulted in the Rice Pool cost saving initiatives were implemented across the Group. Coupled earnings diversification and resilience, as well as increasing levels of overtime, making changes to shift patterns to reduce being unable to absorb all of the overheads in the business and recording with the impact of the smaller CY19 crop on the general activity levels the agility developed in our people, supply chains contact between employees and the recruitment of additional staff. In a loss of $4.1 million, which impacted the overall profitability of the Group. in Australia, these drove reductions in most expense categories in the and operations. Of particular note is the Group’s Australia, low local rice production required SunRice to increasingly This is discussed further in the Rice Pool Business segment commentary Group’s consolidated income statement compared to FY2019. performance against strategy (see pages 19 20), supplement supply with internationally-sourced rice to meet consumer on page 21. which delivered value in the form of new global demand, with foreign exchange impacting profitability. COVID-19 related Depreciation expense however increased by around $6 million compared supply chains, innovative product offerings across To offset the lower Australian crop and meet growing global demand for financial market volatility also further exacerbated the foreign exchange to FY2019 due in part to increased strategic and expansionary capital multiple segments and expanded production SunRice’s products in FY2020, the Group was required to further flex and pressures already impacting our Rice Food and Riviana Foods segments. expenditure activity in the past 24 months, including the commissioning capabilities. expand our international sourcing capability, demonstrating our agility The challenges and associated risks of COVID-19 resulted in non-recurring of our Lap Vo Mill in Vietnam. The adoption of the new AASB 16 Leasing and adaptability to rapidly changing conditions. This is discussed further costs of approximately $4.5 million in FY2020, which partly offset the standard on 1 May 2019 also meant depreciation expense on the right in the International Rice segment commentary on page 22. favourable impacts on consumer sales discussed previously. of use assets and interest expense on the lease liabilities replaced costs The lack of Australian crop also impacted the CopRice and Rice Food SunRice’s response to COVID-19 demonstrated the resilience and agility previously classified as operating lease expenditure. The broader impacts segments, which in part rely on products from the Rice Pool Business. that exists across our portfolio of businesses, and highlighted the success of this new accounting standard on the Group’s financial statements have of the Group’s existing risk management and mitigation strategies. been detailed in note 1 to the financial statements. Deteriorating conditions in the Pacific Our approach to managing COVID-19 in the coming year is discussed in Difficult and deteriorating economic conditions in our Pacific markets, Our Approach to Risk on pages 39 44. Effective tax rate coupled with aggressive competitor pricing strategies significantly The Group’s effective tax rate for FY2020 was 27 per cent, compared to weighed against the performance of the Group (and more specifically our Restructuring, foreign exchange and other 32 per cent for FY2019. This result was due to a combination of factors, International Rice segment) in FY2020. This is discussed further on non-recurring events including the continuing expansion of the Group’s international footprint, page 22. In line with the conditions experienced in the Rice Pool Business, a the impact of the smaller CY19 crop and the mix of jurisdictions in which further reconfiguration of SunRice’s Riverina operations was required profit was generated. Response to COVID-19 in FY2020. This led to approximately $4.5 million in redundancy costs Like many businesses, SunRice was impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic Dividend declared being incurred, which contributed to the Rice Pool’s loss and therefore in the last two months of FY2020. Changes in consumer shopping patterns A fully franked dividend of 33 cents per B Class Share is payable for impacted the Group's profitability. This was in addition to approximately led to a significant increase in demand for SunRice’s products, which had FY2020, matching FY2019’s dividend. This delivered a dividend yield of $2 million in redundancy costs incurred in FY2019, which, in that year, a positive impact on sales across several of the Group's product categories 6.4% for our investor shareholders based on the applicable B Class Share were able to be absorbed by the Rice Pool’s final Paddy Price and and reduced the loss in the Rice Pool Business. price at 30 April 2020, despite the very challenging circumstances. therefore did not impact the Group’s profit. SUNRICE ANNUAL REPORT 2020 / 17 SUNRICE ANNUAL REPORT 2020 / 18 Our Financial Performance and Position Continued Progress Against our 2022 Growth Strategy We continued to Acquiring and upgrading for a Riviana Foods continued to benefit leverage SunRice’s combined $6 million the FeedRite from diversification into the chilled assets to expand CopRice’s pet food segment, launching Roza’s Gourmet strong balance sheet production capabilities. olive range and hemp-based sauces. to execute our 2022 Continuing to build sales for our Low Growth Strategy in GI table rice in Asian markets, including FY2020. Singapore and Hong Kong, as well as building momentum in Australia and We maintained an active capital New Zealand. Development of SunRice’s investment program for much of the Sustainability Strategy and the year with the pursuit of new merger Supplier Sustainability Program. and acquisition opportunities to further diversify and increase earnings, as well as a strong focus on embedding Opening of our Lap Vo Mill in Vietnam sustainability across our operations. and the grant of a related export Across the Group, progress against licence,24 achieving profitability in strategy included the following its first year of operation and further initiatives: diversifying our global supply sources. Repurposing the Coleambally Mill into Commencement of a $4.5 million Australia’s largest ruminant nutrition upgrade to Leeton's microwave rice plant for less than $3 million. facilities to reduce operating costs and improve product innovation and Extension of our healthier rice-based quality. snacks range to Rice Puffs and Rice Cracker Chips, as well as expanding our geographic footprint to the Middle East Creation of frameworks to capture and Asia. and track sustainability data across the Group. This included establishing baselines for FY2021 and working to capture and communicate our strategy and performance in a more transparent and engaging way, including the launch Opening a new $10 million stabilised of a new sustainability website. bran plant in Leeton, improving efficiency and the use of valuable rice products for the Rice Food and CopRice segments. Further details can be found in the relevant segment performance sections on pages 21 24, in the ‘Our Launching Low GI Instant Rice cups in Aligning our Sustainability Strategy Approach to Sustainability’ section of China focussing on hospital and online across the business to ensure a this report on pages 27 38 and on our channels as an option for diabetics. robust and embedded approach to Sustainability website www.sunrice. delivering on the promise of SunRice’s com.au/sustainability. Future strategic Establishing production of Brown Sustainability Charter. initiatives are discussed in ‘Our Rice Chips in Australia as the year Outlook’ on pages 45 46. closed, which will allow for greater product innovation and further export 24. Between 23 March 2020 and 30 April 2020, the Vietnam Government placed restrictions on rice exports opportunities in FY2021. due to COVID-19 related food security concerns. SUNRICE ANNUAL REPORT 2020 / 19 SUNRICE ANNUAL REPORT 2020 / 20 Our Financial Performance and Position Continued Profit Businesses International Rice International Rice recorded revenues from external customers of In addition, varietal trials were commenced in Uruguay in order to $531.4 million in FY2020, up $49 million or 10 per cent on FY2019. satisfy the evolving demand of our customers and further reduce our A Net Loss Before Tax of $1.4 million was recorded for the year, exposure to Australian production volatility. Where FY2020 Rice Pool Business compared to a FY2019 Net Profit Before Tax of $2 million. The successful first year of operation of SunRice Group’s Lap Vo Mill 26% 8% revenue was generated In the Traded Rice business, our Ricegrowers Singapore operation in southern Vietnam and its granting of a rice export licence was rapidly flexed its international sourcing capabilities in response also a key milestone in securing long term offshore sources of rice. to the small Australian crop and growing global demand for our Export licences are rarely issued to foreign entities in Vietnam, which Middle East Asia products, which now outpaces volumes of available Australian rice further demonstrated our ability to develop strong relationships and 11% even in average years of production (see Fig. 1). Strong performance partner with local communities and governments. We have invested was achieved in this business unit and the depth of our global significantly in both people and plant in Vietnam, installing world2% supply chain and diversity of sources meant the Group was able to class milling technology and we are working towards partnering 53% Other match the required variety and quality of rice to each market. This with local growers to develop a fully integrated supply chain that strategic approach fulfilled and retained existing markets typically aims to align with SunRice’s high standards in rice breeding, farming Pacific Islands or historically supplied by Australian rice, which can only supply practices, quality control and efficiencies. Prior to the Vietnamese Australia approximately 5 per cent of our global demand based on CY19 paddy Government’s temporary restrictions on exports late in FY2020 Paddy Rice Reiziq Paddy Price Organic Paddy Rice Reiziq Paddy Price Organic volumes harvested. Incremental profits were therefore generated in (noted earlier), the mill had already commenced operating profitably, the International Rice segment to compensate for the losses incurred with additional benefits to the value chain that included shorter Rice Pool Business in the Rice Pool Business, further demonstrating the complementary distance between Vietnamese growers and SunRice markets and $1,350 $750 $500 $411 XX 2 4.6 4.6 8.1 8.7 3.6 8.4 18.3$1,350 25.6 $750 $500 $411 XXnature2 of SunRice’s 4.6 4.6 8.1 groups. two business 8.7 3.6 8.4 18.3 25.6 stable demand to promote development of longer term supply relationships. In FY2020, SunRice brands retained their market leading positions in $500 $1,350 Paddy Price (Reiziq) Paddy Price (Organic varieties) up to the Middle East and 12 Pacific Island markets, including the Solomon However, the gains in our Traded Rice business were diluted by Islands, and PNG where Trukai celebrated 50 years of operation in rising global rice prices, unfavourable foreign exchange fluctuations per per FY2020. During this time we have evolved from simply supplying PNG with imported rice, to proudly participating in the establishment of placing pressure on margins and a higher proportion of brand charge and Group overhead allocation compared to FY2019 (as a CY19 tonne CY18 CY19 CY18 2020 2019 2020 2019 2020 2019 2020 tonne 2019 2020 CY19 2019 CY18NBPT CY19 CY18 local 2020 rice production 2019 efforts. 2020 2019 2020 the to support PNG Government’s 2020 2019 food 2019 security 2020 2019 result NBPTof increased revenue). In addition, the Group continued to face deteriorating economic XX 482 99.6 99.8 136.6 126.6 139.9 154.6 XXThe482Group also 99.8 136.6 99.6continued 126.6 delivering 139.9 upon 154.6 objective of our strategic conditions in Pacific markets, which were further exacerbated by increasing our global presence. New supply sources were successfully aggressive competitor pricing strategies. In response, the Group activated across Asia and South America, bringing the total number implemented a range of cost savings initiatives and developed Rice Pool a new low cost product offering, expanding the range of our of SunRice global supply sources to 11 countries. This included a Revenue from external customers attributable to the Australian FMCG brands by Kantar TNS Brand Health Tracking. As noted in significant volume of rice secured from China, Vietnam and Thailand portfolio in early 2020 to help maintain our positions. These Rice Pool Business for FY2020 was $223.2 million, down $102.8 Progress against Strategy, we continued to build sales for the Pool’s to fulfil current and future demand, which is now supplying some challenging conditions however resulted in a loss in these markets, million or 32 per cent on FY2019. Low GI table rice in Asian markets, including Singapore and Hong of our key overseas markets, including PNG, the Solomon Islands which significantly weighed against the improved year on year 2020 Kong, as2020 2019 2019 well as 2020 building 2019 momentum 2020 in 2019 markets. Plans are Revenue domestic 2020 and2019 2020 2019 other countries throughout 2019 2020 the Pacific.2020 2019 This demonstrated the Revenue performance in the rest of our international operations and drove The severe drought conditions, low water availability and high well developed to enter additional new markets, especially where benefits of the strong relationships forged by Ricegrowers Singapore the entire segment into a loss position. water prices resulted in the CY19 crop being the second lowest on diabetes is commonplace. with Asian rice producing nations. record at that time. In order to offer a commercially viable price for the rice and incentivise a minimum level of production to maintain In addition, approximately 300,000 paddy tonnes of carry over baseline operations in the Riverina, our growers were offered fixed crop from CY18 was milled during FY2020, which supported sales, price contracts of $500 per paddy tonne for Reiziq and up to $1,350 sustained baseline Riverina assets and operations and contributed per paddy tonne for organic varieties. Approximately 54,000 paddy positively in the absorption of manufacturing overheads. The tonnes were harvested, a reduction of 91 per cent on the 623,000 reduced revenue and activity in FY2020 also resulted in the Rice Where FY2020 International Rice revenue was generated Fig I – Riverina supply vs. global demand for SunRice products tonnes harvested in CY18. Pool attracting lower brand and asset financing charges, as well as (paddy tonne equivalent) In years of average production, all proceeds from the sale of Riverina rice, less costs, are payable to growers for the supply of their rice, a smaller Group overhead allocation, providing further relief to the Rice Pool NPBT. As a result, the overhead cost allocation was further Pacific 59% absorbed by International Rice, due to the higher volume of rice 1,161 resulting in a nil profit in the Rice Pool Business. However, in FY2020, due to the lower volume harvested and fixed price contracts offered, sold in that segment. See the International Rice segment for further details. Middle East 19% the Rice Pool was unable to absorb all of the overheads in the business and recorded a loss of $4.1 million, which impacted overall Group profitability. Despite the challenging conditions linked to water availability, SunRice continued to invest in key projects within the Riverina in United States 12% 953 826 800 800 7% FY2020 to ensure that both our core workforce and facilities are This shortfall was however pleasingly contained due to the Rice 690 Pool’s focus on prioritising the supply of Australian rice into premium maintained so that when seasonal conditions improve and plantings Australia 623 increase, the business is in a position to ramp up as quickly and markets, reinforcing the value of its strong brands and product portfolio. We secured high prices in premium markets which demand Australian rice and benefited from a weakening AUD against the USD efficiently as possible. The reconfiguration of our Riverina operations (see Restructuring, foreign exchange and other non-recurring Asia 2% 205 events on page 18) was a necessary but difficult decision given the 244 54 45 1% during FY2020 (which had a favourable impact on export sales) and the surge in demand associated with the COVID-19 pandemic in the low volumes of rice. We continue to do all we can to support our people and our regional Riverina communities in light of the impact Other final two months of the year. SunRice retained its leading market CY10 CY11 CY12 CY13 CY14 CY15 CY16 CY17 CY18 CY19 CY20 of ongoing low water availability and high water prices (see Our share for table rice in Australia and New Zealand in FY2020 and was Approach to Sustainability on pages 27 38). ranked in the top 4 per cent of the most iconic Australian Grocery SUNRICE ANNUAL REPORT 2020 / 21 SUNRICE ANNUAL REPORT 2020 / 22 XX 2 4.6 4.6 $1,350 8.1$750 8.7 3.6 $5008.4 $411 18.3 XX25.6 2 4.6 4.6 8.1 8.7 $1,3503.6 $7508.4 18.3 $500 25.6 $411 XX 2 4.6 4.6 8.1 8.7 3.6 8.4 18.3 25.6 Our Financial Performance 020Paddy Rice Reiziq 2019 and 2020 2019 Position Paddy Price CY192020 Organic CY182019 Continued 2020 CY19 2019 CY18 Paddy 2020 2020 Rice 2019 2019Reiziq NBPT 2019Price Organic 2020 Paddy 2020 2019 CY19 2020 CY18 2019 2020 CY19 2019 CY18 2020 2019 Rice Reiziq NBPT Paddy 2020 Paddy Rice 2019Paddy Price 2020Organic Reiziq 2019 Paddy Price Organic 2020 2019 2020 2019 NBPT $1,350 XX 482$750 99.6 99.8 $500136.6$411126.6 XX139.9 2 154.6 4.6 4.6 $1,350 XX 482 8.1 99.6 $750 8.7 99.8 3.6136.6 8.4 126.6 $500 $411 18.3 25.6 XX 139.92 4.6 4.6 154.6 8.1 8.7XX$1,350 3.6 $750 482 99.6 18.3 8.4 25.6 $1,350 99.8$500 136.6 $750 XX $411 126.6 139.9$500 2154.6 $411 4.6 4.6 XX 2 8.7 8.1 4.6 4.6 3.6 8.4 8.7 25.6 8.1 18.3 3.6 8.4 18.3 25.6 020 CY19 2019 CY18 2020 2019 CY19 2020 2019 2019 2020 CY18 2019 2020 2020 2020 CY19 2019 2019 2020 Revenue CY18 2020 2019 2019 2020 2020 CY18 2019 CY19 2019 2020 2020 2019 2020 2019 2019NBPT2019 2020 2020 Revenue 2020 2019 2019 2020 CY19 2020 2019 CY18 2019 2019 2020 CY19 CY19 2019 2020CY18 NBPT 202020202019 CY18 2019 CY18 CY19 2020 2020 2019 2020Revenue 2019 2020 2019 2019 2020 2020 2019 2019 2020 2020 2019 NBPT 2019 2020 2019 NBPT Revenue Net Profit Before Tax Revenue Net Profit Before Tax Revenue Net Profit Before Tax Net Profit Before Tax $99.6m $4.6m $136.6m $8.1m $139.9m $3.6m $18.3m XX 482 99.6 99.8 136.6 126.6 139.9 154.6 XX 482 99.6 99.8 136.6 126.6 139.9 154.6 XX 482 99.6 99.8 482 126.6 XX 136.6 99.6139.9 99.8 154.6 136.6 126.6 139.9 154.6 Rice Food 2020 2019 2020 2019 2020 2019 2020 Riviana 2019 Foods 2020 2020 2019 Revenue 2019 2020 2019 2020 2019 CopRice Revenue2020 2019 2020 2020 2019 2019 2020 2020 2019 2019 2020 2020 2019 2019 2020 Revenue 2019 CorporateRevenue Rice Food recorded revenues from external customers Riviana Foods recorded revenues from external CopRice recorded revenues from external customers of $139.9 The Corporate segment’s Net Profit Before Tax was of $99.6 million in FY2020, largely on par with FY2019. customers of $136.6 million in FY2020, up $9.9 million million in FY2020, down $14.7 million or 10 per cent on FY2019. Net $18.3 million for FY2020, down $7.2 million or 28 per Net Profit Before Tax was $4.6 million, also on par with or 8 per cent on FY2019. Net Profit Before Tax was Profit Before Tax was $3.6 million, down $4.9 million or 58 per cent. cent on FY2019. FY2019. $8.1 million, down $0.7 million or 8 per cent. Whilst CopRice managed its grain purchases and commodities closely, As in prior years, NPBT remains primarily driven by a range of Rice Food continued to experience aggressive pricing Riviana’s results benefited from organic growth in most the lack of Australian rice products due to the small CY19 crop put intersegment charges, including: of competitor products in FY2020, which eroded both categories in FY2020, reflecting strong brand performance, pressure on margins compared to FY2019. • Asset financing charges, covering the costs of holding market position and margins in the ready-to-go meals and particularly in Always Fresh and Fehlbergs. Core categories and financing the assets mainly used by the Rice Pool While early drought conditions in FY2019 had a positive impact on microwave rice categories. The lack of Australian crop also in supermarkets performed well, with strong growth Business; sales through increased demand for supplementary feed, ongoing impacted the Rice Food segment, which in part relies on rice across both the Pickled Vegetable and Premium Biscuits products from the Rice Pool Business, and the Australian categories, which grew at more than 4 and 6 per cent drought conditions in FY2020 had the reverse effect, by way of lower • Brand charges, primarily payable by the International volumes and higher input costs. In dairy, particularly in Northern Rice segment and Rice Pool Business and calculated on dollar’s decline against the USD impacted the cost of respectively. Victoria, prolonged dry conditions and lack of water availability the basis of revenue from sales of branded products; globally imported products, further affecting profitability. Riviana continued to benefit from diversification into the resulted in livestock numbers reducing, limiting the demand for and Despite these impacts, SunRice retained its leading market chilled segment via Roza’s Gourmet, as well as further supplementary feed. • Items that are not allocated to other segments, such as position for microwave rice and rice cakes in Australia and diversification in product mix through the launch of Roza’s costs associated with various corporate activities. The sheep and beef feed categories continued to perform well above New Zealand in FY2020 and COVID-19 purchasing late in hemp-based sauces range and olives offering in FY2020. historical averages, however were down on FY2019, largely due to The decrease in profit for FY2020 was primarily driven by the year helped the business maintain revenues and profits Revenue gains were also delivered via a full 12 months of destocking from prolonged drought. In the agricultural retail sector, non-recurring costs associated with the increased level of to FY2019 levels. As noted in Progress Against Strategy, trading across the Roza’s business, compared with the seven CopRice experienced solid margin growth after relaunching both the risk due to COVID-19 (as previously discussed in the SunRice we continued to innovate across our product portfolio. In months reported last year. Working Dog range and a revitalised stabilised rice bran premium Group Overview). The low interest rate environment also particular, FY2020 saw the launch of Low GI Instant Rice The tragic bushfire season however negatively impacted equine offering. These initiatives culminated in CopRice being awarded drove down the cost of capital during the year. This reduced cups in China focussing on hospital and on-line channels, summer holiday spending – traditionally a peak trading Australian Independent Rural Retailers’ 2019 National Supplier of the the asset financing charges normally payable by the Rice where many of China’s 100 million diabetics shop for period for Riviana – although this was partly offset by Year. Pool Business, the offset of which positively contributed to specialty foods. We also reengineered our snacks portfolio COVID-19 purchasing as the year closed. Conversely, the the Pool, helping to reduce its loss. to cater for consumers seeking healthier options with the CopRice continues to pursue growth initiatives, such as the pandemic delivered a dramatic contraction in food service extension of our range to include new Rice Puffs and Rice investments in the new rice bran stabilisation plant in Leeton, For more information on our business model, refer to revenue, with sales halved in April 2020 after what had been Cracker Chips, which were introduced in markets across the commissioned in September 2019 and the repurposing of the Section Three of the Ricegrowers Ltd ASX-listing Information a strong year of growth. Middle East and Asia. Coleambally rice mill to a ruminant feed plant, which will have the Memorandum at www.sunrice.com.au/informationGains in this segment were also offset by foreign exchange capability to use new horticultural by-products, such as almonds memorandum. We continue to implement mitigating cost saving initiatives movements, especially the Australian dollar’s decline and grapes, for the first time. These initiatives realised incremental and strategies to improve efficiencies and further support against the USD and Euro in the last quarter, which profit in the second half of FY2020 and will contribute to a greater innovation in this segment as discussed in Our Outlook on increased the cost of globally imported products and extent in the future, in particular when larger crop volumes return. page 45. This includes the approval and commencement of affected margins. CopRice also acquired the FeedRite assets in northern Victoria at the aforementioned $4.5 million investment in microwave the beginning of FY2020, which included an extrusion plant that will rice capabilities within our Leeton rice food facilities. be repurposed to expand our pet food production capability. The upgraded facility is expected to come online in the first half of FY2021. Where FY2020 Rice Food revenue was generated Where FY2020 Riviana revenue was generated Where FY2020 Coprice revenue was generated Australia 94% Australia (Note Riviana's exports are carried out 100% Australia 93% New Zealand 5% by Australian-based distributors) New Zealand 4% 1% 3% Gogeldrie rice storage facility Other Other SUNRICE ANNUAL REPORT 2020 / 23 SUNRICE ANNUAL REPORT 2020 / 24 Our Financial Performance and Position Continued Operating, investing and Refinancing financing cash flows The successful refinancing of the Group’s debt in April 2020, extending its average maturity for a further two years with facility The continuous financial discipline exercised by the Group resulted tranches maturing now in 2023 and 2024, was a noteworthy in the generation of a positive net cash inflow in FY2020 despite the achievement during FY2020 (see further details in note 4d to the challenging conditions experienced. In an environment in which financial statements). COVID-19 further tested the resilience and liquidity of a number of In the current economic environment, the credit market has been companies, this strong achievement was particularly noteworthy severely disrupted by COVID-19 resulting in toughening conditions considering the Group: in accessing banking facilities. As a result, our ability to secure and • Maintained the distribution of a fully franked dividend at 33 refinance long term debt with favourable terms and conditions is a cents per B Class Share between FY2018 (paid in FY2019) and testament to SunRice’s balance sheet resilience and strength. It also FY2019 (paid in FY2020); and reinforces our position to continue pursuing growth opportunities • Managed to reduce the level of debt from $132 million in line with our 2022 Growth Strategy. to $122 million whilst being impacted by the change in accounting standards on leasing. Net debt and gearing With the continuous financial discipline exercised by the Group The breakdown of this net cash inflow is as follows: and a second consecutive small crop in CY20 resulting in the In FY2020, the Group generated net cash inflows from operating exhaustion of available inventory from prior years, net working activities of $90 million compared to net cash outflows of $9 capital requirements were significantly reduced at 30 April 2020 million in FY2019. This was primarily due to lower payments made and triggered a related reduction in the net debt, gearing ratio and to Riverina rice growers in FY2020 ($69 million compared to $267 finance costs compared to 30 April 2019, despite the unfavourable million in the previous period) as a result of the smaller CY19 crop impact the adoption of the new leasing standard had on these compared to CY18. Additionally, sales in FY2020 continued to be metrics. The current level of net debt ($83 million at 30 April 2020) supported by the significant amount of inventory carried over from and gearing (15% at 30 April 2020), highlights the strength of our CY18, which had largely been paid in the prior period. Tight controls balance sheet and the favourable position we are currently in to on overall working capital management also positively contributed pursue further business expansion and merger and acquisition to these inflows. opportunities in the short term. Further detail can be found in Section 4.1 of the Ricegrowers Limited ASX-listing Information The net cash outflow from investing activities in FY2020 was $31 Memorandum www.sunrice.com.au/information-memorandum. million compared to $47 million in FY2019. This amount, which is significantly higher than the historical amount prior to FY2019, primarily reflects the impact of previously discussed expansionary Capital management capital expenditure in line with the execution of our 2022 Growth In December 2019, the SunRice Board approved a proposal to Strategy. conduct an on-market buyback of B Class Shares, funded via a Financing cash outflows were $38 million in FY2020, compared to combination of cash and existing, undrawn debt facilities. The of $59 million in FY2019, reflecting the reduction in net debt over buyback is part of our commitment to efficiently manage our capital, the period primarily triggered by the reduction in grower payments while maintaining balance sheet flexibility to pursue future growth discussed in the operating cash flows section above. and investment opportunities. At the time of making the decision, the SunRice Board believed that the current B Class Share price did Balance sheet items not reflect the value of the SunRice business or its future growth prospects. The buyback may also provide additional liquidity which Impact of new accounting standards could facilitate the increase of B Class Share value over time. On 1 May 2019, the Group adopted the new AASB 16 Leasing standard, the effects of which have been detailed in note 1 to the SunRice’s established Dividend Reinvestment Plan (DRP), which was financial statements. In summary, on adoption, the new rules active in FY2020 in relation to dividends paid for the year ended 30 added right of use assets and lease liabilities of approximately $16 April 2019, will be active again in relation to the FY2020 dividend, million to our balance sheet, which in turn increased net debt and declared and payable in July 2020. The company’s established gearing. However, this impact remains limited as the gearing ratio Employee Share Scheme (ESS) was also active in FY2020. Details of 15 per cent at 30 April 2020 would have been 12 per cent under of both of these plans are available in note 4e to the financial the previously applicable accounting rules. statements. Combined, the DRP and ESS led to the issuance of 994,517 new B Class Shares in FY2020, raising $5.6 million in capital Banking facilities and covenants in the process. Under our banking facilities, the SunRice Group is subject to a set of covenants, which have been updated and revisited as part of our recent refinancing process. The Group complied with all of its covenants throughout FY2020 and expects to continue to do so in the future. Future covenants agreed as part of the updated banking Poh Ling Yeow facilities will exclude the impact of the new leasing accounting SunRice Ambassador standard. SUNRICE ANNUAL REPORT 2020 / 25 SUNRICE ANNUAL REPORT 2020 / 26 Our Approach Sustainability underpins SunRice’s 2022 Growth Strategy and We know that getting this balance right will support our growth through our stakeholder engagement process we have identified ambitions, because the strategic objectives of a strong trusted and now report on seven focus areas beyond our financial portfolio and a sustainable and reliable global supply chain are Our Approach performance. These focus areas have been grouped into three aligned to a robust business with strong financials. pillars outlining the bigger positive impact we seek to create: Our activities also contribute to eight of the UN’s Sustainable to make a difference to our environment, to make a difference Development Goals (SDGs). to our communities and to make a difference with nourishing products. (see Fig 2) to Sustainability Making a Difference to the Figure 2 Sustainability of Places and Lives With such deep community Sustainability creates community resilience and gives by us our social license to operate. It shores up our supply roots, looking after the places we chains, makes us more attractive to investors and builds Making a Difference Making a Difference Making a Difference with operate in and the environment trust in our brands and businesses. It encourages long to Our Environment to Our Communities Nourishing Products term decision making and drives transparency and good we depend upon has never been governance across all decisions and operations. a side business; it is our business We have taken a strategic approach to ensure and a huge part of SunRice’s sustainability is an integrated part of our business and this success in becoming a major year’s Annual Report reflects this through integrating our financial and non-financial reporting. global player in the FMCG sector. This section provides a snapshot of SunRice’s sustainability efforts as well as our commitment to public through our focus areas and transparent communication of our sustainability performance. It also serves as our Communication on Progress for the United Nations Global Compact. For more information on our sustainability performance, Agricultural Wasting Sourcing Thriving Respecting Employee Nourishing please see our sustainability website at www.sunrice. Research Nothing Globally Communities People Experiences Products com.au/sustainability. to address the material topics to our business R&D and Water management Energy efficiency & Climate change Secure rice Labour practices agronomics emissions reduction supply Role in local Anti-bribery & Workplace health Our people Product safety Financial challenges economies corruption & safety & quality in the supply chain all of which deliver on the following SDGs As a member of the United Nations Global Compact Network Australia, SunRice is guided by the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact and our SunRice Sustainability Charter. We continue to focus on the role SunRice can play in making a meaningful contribution to the UN Sustainable Development Goals. We have identified eight SDGs in which we believe we can have the greatest impact: SUNRICE ANNUAL REPORT 2020 / 27 SUNRICE ANNUAL REPORT 2020 / 28 Our Approach to Sustainability Continued Making a Difference to Our Environment We respect our environment and we commit to leaving it in better shape for future generations. 100+ species of birds and 50% less water used in our SunRice invests heavily in research, development and testing and is a leader in sustainable agronomics. Built 500m native frogs rely Australian growers’ production on 70 years of investment, we are leaders in rice research, on rice farm habitats. than the global average. development and production. Our pure seed program, our best in class research facility and our commitment to rice research and innovation allows us to reduce our impact on the environment. We’re committed to environmental Helping create habitat More rice, less water Food from food waste sustainability, efficient resource use, water use efficiency and maintaining biodiversity. Australian rice farms provide habitat for Rice is better suited to the Australian climate than Since 1978, our Australian grown rice by-products more than 100 bird species, including you might think. As an annual crop, it's one we can have been used to make nutritious animal feed the endangered Australasian Bittern. The grow when there's water available, and leave out and sometimes, bedding. What's not used by our Our Focus Areas Bitterns in Rice Project adapts practices to of our farming rotations when there’s not. There's Australian Rice Pool Business – rice bran, hulls and provide habitat for this endangered bird always plenty of sunshine in our part of the world, brokens – is used by CopRice to create pet and species. which creates higher yields than in many other livestock products and then sold to customers via Agricultural Research countries. both agriculture retail and direct to farm channels. As well as birds, findings from The Broken rice grains are also used by our Rice Food University of Canberra have shown around With over 70 years’ experience, our rice growers are segment to make rice flour and ingredients that are Wasting Nothing 500 million native frogs are found on rice world leaders in advanced practices that allow us to on-sold to other food companies. farms, and we know that the endangered achieve some of the world's highest crop yields and Southern Bell Frog utilises rice farm use the least amount of water to achieve it. habitats. SunRice growers are implementing measures to ensure that native plants and wildlife can live in harmony with the rice-growing environment, including 612MWh noting and maintaining areas of native Improving the vegetation. recycle cycle reduction in Our long term goal is to have no single energy use.25 use packaging in SunRice operations. 24 Right now we are making sure as much Research that creates results 798.4 TCO2e as possible stays out of landfill. reduction in To date we have reduced materials in In Australia, our research partnerships our packaging by rethinking materials have led to new varieties of rice such as greenhouse and optimising pack sizes. More than Viand, a short-season variety that grows gases emitted.25 71 per cent of our Australian packaging government faster and so uses less water and other is now recyclable in kerbside recycling and university inputs; and Doongara, a low GI variety systems, while almost everything perfect for growing in the Australian else can be taken back to Coles or partnerships environment. Woolworths to be recycled by our Mr Duong Hoang Son and participants worldwide. Internationally, we are working on partner REDcycle, of which we are a founding member. of the RGA Established Leaders Program breeding, pure seed and varietal 25. This metric is an estimated value relating to FY2019. Due to at Cu Long Delta Rice Research Institute evaluation projects with leading reporting cycles, FY2020’s annual energy savings were not (CLRRI) in Vietnam. institutions such as Cuulong Delta Rice available at the time of publishing this report. Our focus in the coming year on improving our energy management Research Institute in Vietnam, Instituto systems is part of our program to continuously improve our ability to report this data. Nacional de Investigacion Agropecuaria in Uruguay and the National Agriculture Leeton Mill's new bench seat Research Institute in PNG. was made from 98% recycled material and around 21,500 SUNRICE ANNUAL REPORT 2020 / 29 pieces of soft plastic packaging. SUNRICE ANNUAL REPORT 2020 / 30 Our Approach to Sustainability 11 Continued Our focus is on the communities where we operate From 20 years’ of sponsorship of the Trukai Fun Run, involving 80,000 participants across PNG every year, to our U.S. countries in our global subsidiary SunFoods donating rice to rice supply chain help those in need during the COVID-19 Making a Difference We partner with communities to enrich lives socially and pandemic, we help people gather to celebrate their local communities, improve to Our Communities economically, leveraging our Taking Australian best practice to the world health and wellbeing, sponsor sporting teams, support cultural and minority expertise wherever we operate. celebrations and donate to hospitals. Creating a traceable, sustainably grown As a foreign-owned company that's been Our Focus Areas In some places this is about supply chain is good for our growers, planet able to achieve a rice export licence in Our impacts are felt not just in donating to support community and our business. It creates supply certainty Vietnam, we play a lead role in working with Australia, but across the globe and maximises our export markets. local partners to build on and enhance the Respecting People organisations, in other places, Vietnamese rice industry for the benefit of While about 60 per cent of our community investment remains local, in Australia, In the Riverina, SunRice has a strong our operations help grow entire tradition of grower-led supply with growers their communities, as well as the quality we make significant contributions to the and traceability of exported product. Sourcing Globally local economies. delivering high quality product for sale in Solomon Islands and PNG too. Australia, New Zealand and around the The SunRice Global Sourcing team is We have strong links to those world. This year’s launch of our Vietnam focused on a sustainable and reliable supporting health and wellbeing Thriving Communities operations has seen this approach global supply chain that can source the SunRice and Riviana Foods partners with exported to our international operations best rice from the best suppliers from Foodbank in Australia and others globally too. We are working with local Vietnamese all around the world. This focus on a to support food security, health and growers to design a complete supply sustainable supply chain is also in response 150+ wellbeing. In 2019 SunRice donated more chain approach that partners with them to the worldwide demand for clean, green than 168,000 meals through Foodbank to to improve practices, reduce chemical use produce, which is why it is a centrepiece of help people in need. and increase yield. This work will continue our 2022 Growth Strategy. in collaboration with local partners. CopRice has an impact in animal nutrition and welfare organisations supported CopRice supports animal nutrition in a in the communities we range of ways. CopRice helps volunteerbased organisations host local events that operate. bring animal lovers together and provides 2,000+ product to farmers in need, including donating 1.6 tonnes of feed to a Quirindi cattle farmer in FY2020 in conjunction with Riverina rice growers, which enabled him to retain his breeding stock through the peak of the drought. SunRice suppliers to be enrolled in We support our communities during disasters #1 SunRice’s Supplier During the recent devastating bushfires in Sustainability Code. Australia, SunRice and CopRice contributed product and our people contributed their time, to support affected families and animals. Our extensive distribution rice brand in PNG and networks in communities like PNG and the Bringing rice to the Solomon Islands. Solomon Islands means we are also well remote islands placed to support local disaster relief. Harry Morshead, Widgelli rice grower. SunRice is the leading supplier of rice in PNG and the Solomon Islands. Our Trukai business in PNG and our SolRice business in Supporting Stronger support for our suppliers the Solomon Islands employ approximately indigenous youth We are committed to industry best practice and actively 1000 locals directly and support thousands SunRice partners with the Clontarf seek to join the value chains of like-minded companies. more through family networks and indirect Foundation in Narrandera, near Leeton In FY2020, the SunRice Board approved a new SunRice employment across the supply chain. (home to our flagship mill), to support Supplier Sustainability Code, which will apply across the Trukai and SolRice also boast one of the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Group in FY2021. This code has been developed through most reliable and extensive distribution youth to improve education, life skills and a process of engagement with our internal supplier networks in the region, supporting food employment prospects. This is one of the relationship owners to ensure the program is integrated security, revitalising economic activity first academies in the region and we are in how we do business. We are now well placed to issue and ensuring supply support in case of proud to be a founding partner to help get our first Australian Modern Slavery Statement in FY2021. disasters. it started successfully. SUNRICE ANNUAL REPORT 2020 / 31 SUNRICE ANNUAL REPORT 2020 / 32 Our Approach to Sustainability Continued Making a Difference with 100% Nourishing Products of our white rice sold in the Solomon Islands and PNG is 50 We create nutritious products to vitamin enriched improve the lives of consumers to positively around the world. contribute to local Our Focus Areas health outcomes. all natural, gluten-free products Nourishing Products in our Roza's Gourmet range. Our Roza’s range Feeding the Pacific 54% Our products provide the staple of rice to many ~50 Established in 1991, Roza's Gourmet offers a premium range Pacific nations, reaching some of the most remote of condiments, pestos, dips, soups, crackers and olives. Proudly Australian made and owned, the brand was built on countries are supplied communities. In the Solomon Islands and PNG we the pillars of nutrition, community and environment. Nearly with quality SunRice have partnered with government, health and other experts to establish rice vitamin fortification with 30 years later, these principles remain integral to the brand product every year. the aim of working together to address the high of microwave pouch and business. The Roza’s Gourmet range contains products with ‘all natural’ ingredients, and caters for almost all dietary incidence of infant stunting and birth defects. and cup sales are requirements, including gluten free, vegan, Low FODMAP, brown rice varieties. dairy free, soy free, nut free and egg free. Help where it is needed In partnership with Australian growers, any excess rice or SunRice products nearing their use-by date are donated to Foodbank to help those needing food support, whether due to financial stress or natural disaster. Genetically pure rice seed forms the basis of our Rethinking our range Low GI is a go pioneering Australian Our SunRice brand in Australia Every year we bring the world Pure Seed Scheme. 8 billion In China, we have signed a offers a range of health and wellness ground-breaking partnership with products, as well as all our family a leading nutraceutical business Using blockchain technology favourites. Consumers are increasing that specialises in foods tailored to to support traceability their demand for brown rice, Low GI those visiting hospitals or require a Knowing where your food comes from and the rice and emerging favourites such regulated diet. We have commenced journey it takes to get to your home is more as Black Rice and rice and quinoa selling our Low GI rice cups through serves of rice, feeding around important than ever before. SunRice products blends. hospitals and online, helping to provide healthy alternatives to the 22 million people each day 26 have always been trusted and traceable, but as Supporting Improving fertility our supply chains and our product offerings grow, Over the past five years our fastest Chinese population, in which there 26. Based on a 75 gram serving size. we know we have to continue to explore new and Australian growers in cattle growing segment in Australia is are 100 million diabetics. improved ways to connect our stakeholders to our Did you know that in average crop the convenient microwave format, Our animal feed products are highly 5 star where our brown rice makes up more products. SunRice is at the forefront of innovation years, Australian-grown SunRice nutritious too, like CopRice’s Lac Cycle than half of our sales. SunRice has so it makes sense for us to explore how blockchain brands are exported as a premium a wide range of brown rice options, Health food for hospitals and other technology might support traceability product to consumers all over the Range, which has been formulated to support the long-term, sustainable including our super grain options Riviana Foods’ Pressed Pear Juice has for us and our customers. This year we partnered world, including in rice loving countries success of farming customers by with the addition of other interesting been selling into hospitals and aged with KPMG to pilot blockchain technology for our like Japan, Hong Kong and Singapore? increasing bovine fertility. and tasty healthy grains. Perfect for care facilities for two years. Cloudy Apple products. We continue to explore how insights It's by building trust and quality into all a quick and easy healthy lunch or Pressed Juice and Pear and Prune Pressed health rating achieved from that pilot can be brought into the supply our products that we have been able to dinner. Juice will soon be added to the range. by Riviana Pear Juice. chain to add value for our stakeholders and deliver create this global market for Australian even better visibility and confidence. grown products. SUNRICE ANNUAL REPORT 2020 / 33 SUNRICE ANNUAL REPORT 2020 / 34 Our Approach to Sustainability Overall CY19 yields were above five-year industry averages: Continued Average yield of 10.75 tonnes Our Growers: of paddy rice per hectare (all varieties, all locations) Creating a sustainable Top Reiziq yield of industry for future 15.36 tonnes of paddy rice per hectare generations Top Doongara yield of 14 tonnes of paddy rice per hectare (an industry record) Overall CY19 tonnages achieved per megalitre (ML) were strong: CY19 Rice Harvest Average 0.87 tonnes 54,000 70% Close to produced per ML (all varieties, all locations) Top return of Paddy tonnes harvested of Reiziq and Doongara crops were drill sown John Hawkins Finley rice grower 1.42 tonnes produced per ML (drill sown Reiziq crop) Meet our Growers In FY2020 we collaborated with the Ricegrowers' Association of Australia and Local Land Services in a project jointly funded by the National Landcare Program to develop a farmer-led sustainability framework for rice growers in the Riverina. Building on our work in 2018 and using the United Nations Sustainable Rice Platform (SRP) as a base for globally accepted standards in sustainable rice growing, our pilots have shown us that our Australian growers are meeting and in many cases exceeding these standards. The pilot culminated with our first ever Sustainability Academy, involving 20 growers sharing their insights on how a sustainability framework could add value to growers and support the rice industry. The vision as the project continues is a farmer-led sustainability framework that allows stakeholders to connect more deeply with how their rice is grown. Drawing on our 70 years of industry experience and SunRice’s relationships with growers and other industry stakeholders, we look forward to a framework designed by growers that encourages broad industry uptake. Scott, Pam and Carl Williams Ian Payne Peter and Renee Burke Murrami Coleambally Jerilderie As our global supply chain expands and supports our strategic growth, we consciously work with suppliers who share our values The Williams family have been SunRice growers since Ian has been a SunRice grower since 1984. SunRice growers since 1998, the Burkes were awarded and commitment to quality and community. This commitment will 1989. Son Carl recently returned from Sydney to When he’s not farming, he’s racing ski boats. both The Weekly Times Coles 2019 Farmer of the Year be strengthened by the roll out of our new Supplier Sustainability become a partner in the family farm business. and the inaugural 2019 SunRice Grower of the Year Code in FY2021. titles, thanks to excellence in yield and water savings. SUNRICE ANNUAL REPORT 2020 / 35 SUNRICE ANNUAL REPORT 2020 / 36 Our Approach to Sustainability Continued 86% of our new employees know what our values are. Striving for equality and inclusion SolRice, the trusted SunRice business in the Solomon Islands, 43.2 per cent women compared with 31.1 per cent of women27 in peer food leave of absences (e.g. parental leave) during remuneration reviews, are and its partners the Australian High manufacturing companies. However, all part of the processes in place to Listening to our people Our People: Commission, Solomon Islands we acknowledge we have more to maintain equal pay for equal work. We take the time to listen to our SunRice employees at every stage of their Ministry of Women, Youth, Children do given our goal to reach 40 per Further information about our diversity career journey. Our FY2020 onboarding survey results demonstrated a sense and Family Affairs, and the Royal cent women in all leadership roles by Creating great of belonging from the outset, with 94 per cent of those surveyed saying ‘I am feeling welcome here’ and 86 per cent reporting they know what our Solomon Islands Police Force, won the 2019 Australian Government FY2022. metrics is available at www.sunrice. com.au/corporate-governance. employee At SunRice, we are also proud 40% organisational values are and how their role contributes to SunRice's Growth Gender Equality Good Practice of our centralised approach to Strategy. Our FY2020 ‘Say it as you see it!’ engagement survey also showed Award. We continue to focus on remuneration, with multiple checks experiences high levels of autonomy and flexibility in our Australian workplaces. 85 per cent of our team said ‘I am able to arrange time out from work when I need to’ improving diversity at every level of our business. and balances, to ensure equality in how pay is determined. Ensuring and 84 per cent said ‘I know what I need to do to be successful in my role’. Workplace Gender Equality Agency there is no bias towards genders, of women in all SunRice’s employee value data for SunRice shows that in reviewing internal relativities on a like leadership roles by proposition is ‘Make a Difference’. Educating the next generation Australia we are ahead in the for like basis, as well as including any category of 'Senior Managers’ with employees who may be on extended FY2022 is our goal We have approximately 2,000 staff and believe our people really The SunRice Jan Cathcart Scholarship assists in do ‘make a difference’ every day by ensuring the long-term paying for the tertiary education of young women sustainability of our business and helping create sustainable in the rice industry and offers internships across communities in the countries in which they operate. the business to gain practical experience. To date Meet our Employees In turn, we aim to make a difference for them. the scholarship has provided six recipients with numerous opportunities, from funding their studies, to work experience and employment placements Our Focus Areas with SunRice, and professional and personal growth. This commitment to creating employment pathways Employee Experiences works in conjunction with our partnership with the Clontarf Foundation, with whom we provided our first work experience placement in FY2020. Dean Fraser, Janice Hiskett-Jones, Aina Davis, Head of Manufacturing Head of Rewards Rice Development Manager Lap Vo Mill, Vietnam SunRice Group, Sydney Trukai Industries, PNG 94.6% “I think our Cultural Intelligence “We use the same Australian legislated “Rice was introduced to PNG hundreds training is just as important as any standards across our sites in all the of years ago and is consumed as a staple other training – you could get by countries we operate in to ensure men food, but it’s not been widely cultivated. without it, but a lot of opportunities and women are paid equally. It’s my aim to be part of the team who completion rate could be missed through lack of understanding and confusion. It’s a rigorous process that ensures there is no bias in how we remunerate pioneer the development of rice varieties and commercialise local rice production of employee safety our people, no matter where they are.” for PNG.” training programs. Fig. 3: Our global employee base ~2,000 Male 74% 26% Female 18–24 years 9% 25–34 years 32% 35–44 years 29% 45–54 years 19% 55–64 years 10% < 2 years 30% 2–5 years 19% > 20 years 7% Australia 39% Pacific (PNG & SI) 49% South East Asia 6% 65 years or older 1% 5–10 years 26% 10–20 years 18% Middle East 2% Total Number of Employees America 4% Our focus on safety Supporting front line leaders In FY2020, AS/NZS 4801 Occupational Health and Safety Our unique partnership with TAFE NSW entered Management System certification was achieved in all its second year in FY2020. Fifteen future leaders Gender Age Length of Locations Australian business units for the first time. While both our are midway through a specially tailored TAFE NSW Service Lost Time Injury Frequency and Lost Time Injury Severity Certificate IV in Leadership and Management course, Rates reduced year-on-year, we were concerned to see aimed at helping our front line leaders boost their our Total Recordable Injury Frequency Rate increase leadership skills and better meet future workplace by 8 per cent to 12.9 (per million hours worked). We challenges, particularly in the Riverina. continue to focus on constant improvement via root cause analysis of all serious and high potential incidents and implementation of corrective and preventative measures to reduce recurrence. Safety training and workshops are also conducted across all levels of the business, with a completion rate of 94.6 per cent for FY2020. 27. Source: 2018-19 WGEA Competitor Benchmark Report (Food Manufacturing, All Sizes). Please note this metric relates SUNRICE ANNUAL REPORT 2020 / 37 to FY2019. Due to reporting cycles, comparable data was not available for FY2020 at the time of publishing this report. SUNRICE ANNUAL REPORT 2020 / 38 Our Approach to Risk Managing risk is critical for growing 1. Risk management oversight 2. SunRice’s approach to identifying risks • The SunRice Group has also embraced opportunities for our business through multi-decade investment in research a sustainable and resilient business SunRice’s Board oversees the establishment, implementation SunRice has established frameworks, processes and risk and development to enhance rice and farming systems to that can continue to deliver value to and review of the Group’s risk management framework, which identifies, assesses, monitors and manages operational, financial assessment tools to enable the business to identify and assess risks and the effectiveness of mitigating controls in place. In particular, mitigate some of the impacts of climate change, increase yield and reduce the use of water, fertilisers and other all of SunRice’s stakeholders. and compliance risks across all business units. The responsibility risks are categorised in a consistent manner to maintain reporting inputs. It also provides the Group with an opportunity to for ongoing review of risk management has been delegated to consistency across the Group (see Figure 4). This “bottom-up” share this expertise with different communities around It ensures we’re well placed to our Finance, Risk and Audit Committee, which reports to the approach focusing mainly on tactical risks is complemented by the world and to contribute to the development of more Board regularly. The management of health and safety risks a “top-down” approach involving the executive team and Board, anticipate disruption that could and compliance, while included in the overall enterprise risk which focuses on risks in the external environment and within sustainable local rice industries, producing better quality products. prevent us from achieving our management framework, is the responsibility of our Safety, Health operations that might impact the delivery of the strategy (strategic Following our commitment to working towards implementing strategic objectives and helps us and Environment Committee. SunRice’s management team is accountable for effective risk management processes and for risks). Our stakeholder engagement workshops contribute to this risk identification and assessment process, ensuring we also the recommendations of the TCFD, we have taken the following identify growth and diversification the reinforcement of a risk management culture throughout our capture the material concerns of our stakeholders (see SunRice's initial steps in FY2020: • SunRice management conducted a high-level gap analysis opportunities. company. Stakeholder Engagement Statement at www.sunrice.com.au/ sustainability-reports). against the requirements of the TCFD; Please see SunRice’s Corporate Governance Statement for • Climate has formally been incorporated as a specific cause As such, risk management forms further detail: www.sunrice.com.au/corporate-governance. Each risk identified in the business is measured against the Risk of risk and opportunity in the SunRice enterprise risk Appetite Statement approved by the Board and compliance is an entire part of our strategic reported quarterly to the Finance, Risk and Audit Committee. management framework with periodic risk management and operational decision making reporting to the Finance, Risk and Audit Committee; and Figure 4 – SunRice Risk Universe Feeding into the risk identification process is an understanding of • An initial management steering committee has process. the major external trends shaping our risk landscape. While our been established to oversee a more detailed TCFD Epidemics & global context is shared on pages 11–12, the following trends are implementation plan over the coming financial year. Pandemics particularly relevant to SunRice’s risk environment: Policies The SunRice Group acknowledges the existence of other short • Climate change: SunRice relies on the availability of natural and long-term physical and transitional risks and opportunities resources in Australia and around the world to supply induced by climate change, including severe weather events, Sovereign nutritious food products. Material changes in weather patterns carbon pricing mechanisms and changes in consumer and reduction in biodiversity, which are increasing with climate expectations. Additional efforts will be required to mitigate Economy & change, may negatively and durably influence arable lands Market Dynamic their consequences and conduct scenario analysis on global currently used for rice production, crop yields, nutritional warming. We expect this process could take up to three years to Legal and Global & Litigation People & composition of rice, farming cost and deplete the number achieve the full extent of disclosure intended by the Financial Regional Climate Change Regulatory Cu lture risks of farmers. In this context, water is increasingly becoming a Risks Stability Board for greater transparency of the effect of climate Risks Execution resource of political and strategic importance that may result in Regulatory change on our operations. tensions between communities, displacement of populations Corporate and drastic change in the current agricultural footprint of • Geopolitical instability and protectionism: the ongoing Organisation Governance environment of hardening international trade restrictions and affected countries. SunRice other protectionist measures such as tariffs and quotas has, Change In Australia, the availability of water to grow rice dictates our and may continue to, impact the global economy and notably People efforts to compensate for domestic shortages through global countries where SunRice operates, sources or trades rice. This Risk People & New Product sourcing. This, in return, exposes the Group to more complex Strategic Development & is particularly relevant in countries where rice importation is Incentive Culture Research & supply chain optimisation challenges and increases our regulated through ‘single desk’ government-controlled bodies Risks Universe Risks Development inherent risks as a supplier of food products. in order to protect domestic rice industries. Culture Mergers & The management of unpredictability in weather patterns The humanitarian crisis caused by the COVID-19 pandemic is Aquisitions and its consequence on our business has however long Capital Supply adding to this uncertainty and may result in further economic, Structure been embedded in both the Group’s Strategy and its social and political instability. Given rice is a staple of strategic Physical Risk Management activity; two core elements of the importance from a food security perspective, this may also Assets recommendations of the Task force on Climate-related Market reduce SunRice’s ability to source rice from countries affected Financial Business Financial Disclosure (“TCFD”) to manage risks and identify by the virus. Risks Operations & Environment opportunities as follows: Tax IT Risks • Consumer preferences and stakeholders' expectations: • A key element of our international growth strategy is the as an FMCG company, SunRice is both subject to the risk of establishment of a secure, sustainable and reliable global misunderstanding or failing to meet consumer preferences and Reputation Health & Safety supply chain which mitigates our exposure to isolated the opportunities to respond to this evolving demand. Fraud Risks weather events in any one region. This diversification SunRice’s 2022 Growth Strategy and new product development strategy was initiated more than 10 years ago by investing Performance take into account current trends and consumer expectations. Credit Quality in direct access to Californian rice and more recently by Investor These include healthy and easy to cook meals and snacks, safe Liquidity Relations Sales & Operating the acquisition of a mill in Vietnam. SunRice has also Accounting and nutritious sources of nutrients and socially responsible & Reporting Marketing IT & License established strategic relationships with key suppliers Cyber brands and packaging, especially as more countries are Security to access high quality rice from other countries such as climbing up the wealth curve. For more detail, see Our Strategy Cambodia, China, Taiwan, India, Italy, Myanmar, Pakistan, Brand Headlines on pages 13 14. Customer Spain, Thailand and Uruguay. Satisfaction SUNRICE ANNUAL REPORT 2020 / 39 SUNRICE ANNUAL REPORT 2020 / 40 Our Approach to Risk Continued 3. Key risks and responses As our operating environment is constantly changing, some other risks identified by the Group as being less key to our business The SunRice Group is exposed to a number of specific risks today may rapidly become of importance in the future. The current that may have an adverse impact on our current and future humanitarian challenge of the COVID-19 pandemic is an illustration operations, financial performance and, ultimately, our ability to and a stark reminder that risk management needs to remain achieve the Group’s strategic objectives. Most of those risks are a agile to adapt to multiple sources of business disruption and direct consequence of the trends and broader forces defining the opportunity. environment SunRice operates in, which were described on the SunRice’s key risks and our responses to them are noted below. preceding page. Key risks Mitigating actions Key risks Mitigating actions Supply levels of rice from the Riverina, water This risk is managed through various streams of work including: Quality and food safety The integrity and quality of our products is supported by robust availability, water affordability and competing crops processes and systems including: • Commitment to support the rice industry in the Riverina by As a food business, SunRice is inherently exposed to the risk of The variability of supply levels of Australian rice sourced from the continuously providing our growers with attractive prices for contamination or out-of-specification products that may result in • Food safety and quality management systems including constant Riverina region directly influences the intensity of our international rice against other competing crops. a failure to deliver on the quality promises carried by the SunRice product testing before release. supply chain operations and may impact the Group’s overall • In years where water availability is limited, offering fixed price brands and possibly cause harm to our consumers. • Food defence protocol. financial performance and the maintenance of brands and markets contracts commensurate with the price of water. • External certifications of our facilities. if no equivalent quality of rice can be sourced on competitive • Strong capabilities of our global trading arm to source the • Quality assessment of our suppliers. terms. missing volume from other acceptable markets. • Contract management and supplier management process to The level of supply of Australian rice is itself a factor of available • Sensory analysis database mapping consumer preferences in maintain product within contractual specifications. water at an affordable price and the competitiveness of rice each market with varietals responding to the concept of “Good, compared to alternative crops. A single year of small Riverina crop Better, Best” so that multiple sources of rice can be substituted • Business continuity plan in place for any required product withdrawl or recall. may result in a loss-making position for the Australian Rice Pool to suit consumers’ preferences and price elasticity. Business that is required to be absorbed by the Profit Businesses. • Carry-over stock management to maintain our workforce • Management and monitoring of customer and consumer Multiple consecutive years of small Riverina crops may also feedback and complaints. and manufacturing footprint in their optimum utilisation include the recognition of material non-recurring charges, such as configuration. restructuring and asset impairments, and could durably affect the Group’s business model and strategy. • Continuous engagement with state and federal government Reliance on key suppliers This risk is mitigated by constant interactions with our key authorities to increase allocations against General Security suppliers and more specifically through: The ability to engage in durable and strategic relationships with water entitlements for annual irrigated agriculture in the key suppliers is essential to maintain continuity of supply in our • Our supplier relationship management process. Riverina. markets. • Ongoing review of service level agreements and other • Actions to repurpose or diversify the use of our asset base in contractual obligations to manage discussions. the Riverina to reduce dependence on annual crop size. The reduction in supply or loss of our key suppliers may disrupt SunRice operations and result in increased costs and loss of profit • Establishing long-term and strong partnering relationships to and markets to competition. deliver tangible and intangible mutual benefits. Global sourcing In years of small Australian crops, our global sourcing arm becomes • Consideration and assessment of alternative suppliers to our primary response to mitigate this risk. This diversification This risk is more prominent when SunRice doesn’t have access With two small consecutive Australian crops in CY19 and CY20, the to Australian rice and is required to compete with other players diversify risks. strategy is supported by rigorous processes including: large majority of our demand will need to be filled through global internationally to secure high quality rice. • Rigorous due diligence and contract approval processes to sourcing in FY2021. • A strong and experienced local management team with the mitigate risks, including around continuity of supply and more technical expertise and relationships to secure rice from particularly around continuity of supply, ethical business This multiplication of sourcing origins adds additional complexity various markets. practices and protection of intellectual property. in our supply chain with numerous associated risks, including sovereign risks, supplier quality validation and ongoing • Due diligence on supply chain partners and the risks associated • Long and short positions mitigated through the ability to management, continuity of supply, logistics and shipping with procuring out of a new country. substitute varietals and origins within our supply chain to disruption, optimisation of supply chain to minimise costs and • Robust sensory testing process to map out consumer continue to meet consumer preferences. contract management. preferences with various rice qualities (“Good, Better, Best”). • Partnership with universities to test samples of rice qualities. • Monitoring of market conditions, key drivers and continuous intelligence gathering to allow SunRice to take positions in market at the best possible outcome. • Growth strategy to acquire or develop manufacturing capabilities offering geographical diversification, such as the U.S. and Vietnam. • Strong relationship with ocean freight carriers, with multiple alternative options to manage potential logistics disruptions. SUNRICE ANNUAL REPORT 2020 / 41 SUNRICE ANNUAL REPORT 2020 / 42 Our Approach to Risk Continued Key risks Mitigating actions Competition and pricing SunRice is continuously managing this risk to preserve margins and deliver on our 2022 Growth Strategy through: Rice is a globally traded staple food subject to economic and geopolitical dynamics influencing its availability and pricing. • Investment to maintain and grow brand equity to differentiate from competition. Without being an exhaustive list, multiple factors such as foreign exchange fluctuations, economic conditions in countries dictating • Premiumisation of our products for sale to discerning affordability, weather conditions, levels of global stockpiles, tariffs consumers. and other trade barriers can influence prices and the intensity of • Investment in research and development and new product competition the Group is facing. development to remain current in our markets and meet evolving consumer expectations and preferences. This may result in loss of market, revenue, margins or even loss of opportunities impacting growth. • Monitoring of industry activity on both the buy and sell sides of our business. • Risk mitigation strategies to secure volumes of rice at fixed prices. • Hedging strategies in place (refer to note 4g to the financial statements). • Growth strategy to acquire or develop manufacturing capabilities offering geographical diversification, such as the U.S. and Vietnam. Dual class share structure, limited voting While SunRice has an unusual capital structure, the risk of not rights and B Class Shareholding Limit being able to raise capital is, to an extent, shared with any other The SunRice Group’s dual class share structure, the limited voting listed company. We manage this risk by: rights attached to B Class Shares, and the B Class Shareholding • Maintaining a sound and healthy balance sheet. Limit of 10 per cent distinguish us from other ASX listed companies. • Negotiating sufficient credit facilities to pursue accretive A Class shareholders must also, in accordance with the SunRice merger and acquisition activities, even if they were to be Constitution, be Active Growers producing a certain volume of rice funded largely or exclusively by debt. over a set period of time, which can be challenging in periods of • Maintaining the delivery of our market guidance. drought. A depletion in the number of growers would concentrate control between a smaller number of A Class shareholders. • Our established dividend policy. • Continuing to build trust over time with both existing and These non-standard elements may make B Class Shares less potential investors, based on SunRice’s strategy, resilience and attractive as an investment compared to an investment in shares established experience in successfully managing the interests in a typical ASX listed entity. As a result, B Class Shares may trade of both A and B Class shareholders, including during times of at a lower price than if these elements did not exist and or limit the adversity. ability of the Group to raise capital. • The Board’s discretion to defer redemption of any A Class Share, notwithstanding the criteria set by the Constitution, or revisit the criteria set by the Constitution for qualification as an Active Grower. Following the recommendation of a sub-committee comprising Non-Grower Directors, this right was exercised in FY2020. It enables the SunRice Board to defer redemption of A Class Shares of Members who have failed to deliver the minimum quantity of paddy rice to SunRice, if the Directors believe that the Member will resume being an Active Grower. SUNRICE ANNUAL REPORT 2020 / 43 SUNRICE ANNUAL REPORT 2020 / 44 Our Outlook The SunRice Group continues We will continue to actively manage the risks posed by the reduced In Riviana Foods, strategic initiatives to be explored in FY2021 Australian crop, and ensure any shortfalls are managed to meet include: to deliver against our 2022 that demand. We are also continuing to pursue commercial • Further scaling to increase Riviana’s share of the ‘entertainment Growth Strategy and is focused opportunities to utilise our AGS storage assets to store grains other platter’ and the premium food category in Australia; than rice on a temporary basis. on the further expansion and • Growth of the Always Fresh, Fehlbergs and Roza’s Gourmet In the Rice Food, Riviana Foods, CopRice and International Rice diversification of earnings. segments, the innovation pipeline remains strong, with the launch brands through continual new offerings in retailers; and • Continuing to pursue and integrate value accretive merger and Australian drought conditions are expected to continue impacting of several initiatives in FY2021 aligned with our 2022 Growth acquisition opportunities. the Group through FY2021. As the year closed, a CY20 crop of Strategy expected to deliver benefits across the coming year. These approximately 45,000 paddy tonnes was harvested and delivered include: All capital investments are made strategically to ensure SunRice to our storage network. This outcome was only possible due to • Launch of SunRice’s new infant rice-based product range in delivers high-quality and efficiently produced products to compete SunRice offering record fixed price contracts of $750 per tonne Australia and China; effectively in key markets and increase earnings. for medium grain Reiziq and up to $1,500 per tonne for specialty • Continued growth of our expanding rice snack portfolio In line with our business strategy, our sustainability focus for varieties. Given low water availability and high water prices, these through broader distribution channels internationally; FY2021 remains connected to the individual initiatives for each of incentives were required to attract the necessary rice production to ensure the Group was able to replenish vital seed stocks for the • Further strengthening and diversification of international our segments. However, as a Group, we are focused on: future and maintain key Riverina operations. supply chains and infrastructure to source quality rice during a • Continuing to improve the governance framework around period of high demand and macroeconomic instability; sustainability measurement, supporting our move to articulate While the CY20 crop is lower than CY19, when coupled with • Maintaining SunRice as the leading supplier of rice flour to food and share sustainability targets and goals for our key focus crop carried over from prior years, this reduced volume of rice is manufacturers focused on meeting demand for ‘free-from’ areas, including energy, packaging and climate related expected to maintain a base milling program in the Riverina in the foods; programs and disclosures; foreseeable future and allow key skills to be retained, which will • Increased product innovation and export opportunities • Supporting our Riverina growers to better capture and enable the Australian Rice Pool Business to flex back up should communicate their sustainability performance; and following the establishment of Brown Rice Chip production in seasonal conditions improve and crop sizes increase. While we are hopeful that these conditions will improve, we will continue to Australia; and • Implementation of our new Supplier Sustainability Program assess our operational footprint in the Riverina based on the actual • The upgrade of our Leeton microwave rice facilities to reduce with a focus on Labour Standards in our supply chain. FY2021 operating costs and improve product innovation and quality, will see the introduction of our first Modern Slavery Statement conditions that will prevail in the future. which is due for completion in FY2021. in response to the requirements of the Australian Modern As previously announced, persistent low water availability and high Slavery Act 2018 (Cth). water prices in Australia also mean the $2 billion revenue target for Strategic opportunities will continue to be explored in both our CopRice and Riviana Foods segments during FY2021. As a business we are committed to enhancing our reliable the Group under the 2022 Growth Strategy will now take longer to sustainable supply chain partnerships and building on our trusted achieve. In CopRice, strategic initiatives are planned to further scale the portfolio of products. We remain focused on maintaining markets We are closely monitoring a range of factors that have the potential business across the ruminant, companion animal and equine and tightly managing costs, whilst making prudent commercial to impact revenue and margins in the short term. These include sectors and to reduce its traditional dependence on Australian rice decisions and purposefully investing to leverage the Group’s strong rising international prices, a fluctuating Australian dollar, ongoing products. These include: balance sheet and deliver the 2022 Growth Strategy. deteriorating economic conditions in PNG, aggressive pricing • Building our industry-leading animal nutrition business with In our 70th year, we have once again seen the resilience of the strategies from competitors and global uncertainty due to the initiatives spanning dairy, sheep, beef, equine and companion SunRice Group’s business model in action, ensuring we continue COVID-19 pandemic. More detail on our approach to risk can be animals; to trade profitably and efficiently balance the objectives of both found on pages 39 – 44. • Bringing ‘FMCG thinking’ to agricultural retail with products our A and B Class shareholders, as well as the broader stakeholder In parallel, as mentioned previously, our strategic focus on sourcing that cater to the whole life cycle of companion animals; groups that we engage with. from existing and new supply chains remains a key focus to ensure • Investment in our manufacturing processes to deliver further that the SunRice Group has profitable options to service growing operational efficiencies; and demand in global markets. • Continuing to pursue and integrate value accretive merger and acquisition opportunities. SUNRICE ANNUAL REPORT 2020 / 45 SUNRICE SUNRICEANNUAL ANNUALREPORT 2020//46 REPORT2020 46 Corporate Management Team Rob Gordon Rob joined SunRice in 2012 as CEO and Managing Director. Rob’s career spans more than 35 years' of experience in the FMCG and Tom Howard Tom joined SunRice in 2015 and is now responsible for the management and expansion of the Group's global manufacturing, Chief Executive Officer agribusiness sectors, including over 20 years in CEO and Managing General Manager, supply chain, engineering, R&D, commercial sourcing (origination), BSc (Hons) CEng MAICD Director roles for companies including Viterra Inc, Dairy Farmers Ltd Global Operations and sustainability, storage and handling, and grower services capabilities. and Goodman Fielder (Meadow Lea and Consumer Goods divisions). Agribusiness Tom is also a Director of Ricegrowers Singapore and Ricegrowers He also held various senior executive roles with Unilever in Europe Vietnam. A highly experienced agribusiness executive, Tom has over BAg Ec, MBA and Australia. For Directorships, please refer to page 53. 25 years’ experience in international business and the domestic and international grains industry. He has previously held senior positions with Emerald Grain (Sumitomo Corporation), the top 50 Irish company UniPhar and a leading Australian grains cooperative. Dimitri Courtelis Dimitri was appointed Group CFO of SunRice in 2018, following an extensive global career in accounting, finance and corporate Chief Financial Officer roles. A qualified chartered accountant (ICANZ) and fraud examiner David Keldie David joined SunRice in 2001 and is responsible for the Middle East, North and South East Asia, and the Pacific which includes BCompt (UNISA), CA (ICAA), (ACFE), he spent 10 years in professional services in South Africa, General Manager, the Solomon Islands, Australia and New Zealand markets. With CFE (ACFE) Australia and Dubai in external audit, transaction advisory and forensic services for firms such as Ernst & Young and Deloitte. Prior Global Consumer Markets 30 years’ experience in the FMCG sector, David is a Director of BA Ricegrowers Singapore, SunFoods (USA), Trukai Industries (PNG), to joining SunRice, Dimitri spent seven years in senior finance roles SolRice (Solomon Islands), Ricegrowers Middle East (UAE) and Aqaba with the Etihad Airways Group in Abu Dhabi, Serbia and Germany, Processing Company (Jordan). including as the Group CFO of AirSERBIA and Group CFO of Air Berlin PLC in transformation and restructuring roles. Peter McKinney Peter joined SunRice in 2017, bringing extensive senior marketing Matt Alonso Matt joined SunFoods LLC in 2010 and is responsible for all and general management experience from roles with blue-chip aspects of the U.S. business, from raw material procurement and General Manager, CopRice consumer companies YUM Brands and George Weston Foods, Chief Executive Officer, plant operations, to domestic sales and marketing. With over 20 BComm (Marketing), GAICD in both the Quick Serve Restaurant and FMCG industries. Peter SunFoods LLC years’ experience in the U.S. agriculture and rice industries, Matt also previously held a senior management position at ASX-listed BSc (AgEngr), MBA has previously worked for Pacific International Rice Mills and is a company Pacific Smiles Group. Board member of the California Rice Commission and the USA Rice Federation. Paul T. Parker Paul joined SunRice as GM of People and Culture in 2019, bringing Mandy Del Gigante Mandy first joined SunRice in 1990 as a Financial Accountant and over 20 years' of experience working in human resources. Prior to held a range of positions within the business, including Financial General Manager, joining SunRice, Paul was the Chief Human Resource Officer for Company Secretary Controller and Company Secretary. Following three years as People and Culture Royal Caribbean. Paul led the design and implementation of a BComm, CPA, AGIA, ACIS, GAICD Secretary of the Rice Marketing Board for the State of New South People Strategy focused on organisation-wide career enhancement, MBA Wales, Mandy returned to SunRice in 2005. Prior to working in critical talent management, building strength from diversity and the rice industry, she worked in the commercial and chartered creating an environment of flexibility and choice. accounting fields for international firms. Greg Worthington Greg joined Trukai Industries in 2013 as CEO and is responsible Stephen Forde Stephen joined Riviana Foods in 2013 as CEO, bringing more than for all aspects of the PNG business, including management of 24 years' of strategic sales, marketing and general management -Eyre sovereign risk, agricultural and food security projects and the Chief Executive Officer, experience in the FMCG industry. During his 20-year career with development of PNG’s first commercial rice industry. Prior to Riviana Foods Pty Ltd Chief Executive Officer, Reckitt Benckiser, he was Global Customer Director, UK and this role, Greg was Managing Director at Pink Hygiene Solutions General Manager, New Zealand. Before joining SunRice, Stephen Trukai Industries Limited and Ambius Australia, after time spent in Singapore as Senior spent four years as General Manager, New Zealand for Campbell Honorary Doctorate, MBA, MAICD Vice-President for Initial Asia Pacific. Greg started his career at Arnott’s. Unilever and over the course of 30 years held numerous positions across Australia and Asia. In 2018, Greg was awarded an Honorary Doctorate in Technology from the University of Technology in PNG. SUNRICE ANNUAL REPORT 2020 / 47 SUNRICE ANNUAL REPORT 2020 / 48 Corporate Governance Overview Corporate governance is of vital Board composition, skills and areas of focus Table 1 – Board Skills Matrix importance to SunRice and our In accordance with the Constitution, an election for four SunRice Key Skill Demonstrated by these attributes Board Strength* Board is committed to ensuring that Non-executive Grower Directors was conducted in FY2020. Under Rule 11.19a(2), Grower Directors are required to hold an A Class Good working knowledge of the structure, its framework, policies and practices Share. The Board took proactive steps to encourage a diverse range Rice industry experience operations and opportunities in the Australian rice are of the highest standard. of suitable and appropriately skilled candidates, resulting in seven candidates, including one female. industry. To deliver on this commitment On 22 August 2019 the following changes were made to the NonFood Processing and Distribution Successful recent experience in a relevant part of requires the SunRice Board to have executive Grower Directors on SunRice’s Board: and/or FMCG experience the food or FMCG industry. a sound understanding of current • Glen Andreazza and Mark Robertson retired. Proven knowledge, background and experience governance requirements and • Jeremy Morton and Julian Zanatta were elected. Risk management expertise with balancing commercial imperatives with practices, as well as keeping abreast • Laurie Arthur and Leigh Vial were re-elected. agreed risk appetites. of emerging trends and changing During FY2020 the following changes were made to Board Financial management expertise Successful executive experience with financial accounting, corporate finance, treasury, tax and Committees: stakeholder expectations. • Glen Andreazza and Mark Robertson retired from the Grower internal controls. In this section, we’ve outlined selected components of SunRice’s Services and Safety, Health and Environment Committees. Experience in, or commissioning of corporate governance framework, highlighting the key governance • Jeremy Morton and Julian Zanatta were appointed to Research & Development (R & D) and evaluating R & D activities. matters and areas of focus in FY2020. the Grower Services and Safety, Health and Environment Throughout the period, SunRice’s corporate governance approach Committees. Successful strategy, growth and business Track record of creating long term value was consistent with the ASX Corporate Governance Principles and • Dr Leigh Vial was appointed Chairman of the Safety, Health and development experience, including with for shareholders and identifying suitable Recommendations (third edition) published by the ASX Corporate Environment Committee and appointed to the Grower Services mergers and acquisitions (M & A) opportunities. Governance Council (ASX Recommendations). Consistent with Committee. Leigh ceased to be a member of the Finance, Risk Exposure to relevant disclosure regimes, prior years, the Board does not consider that all of the ASX and Audit Committee. ASX board and other relevant understanding of contemporary governance Recommendations are appropriate for our company given the • Ian Mason was appointed to the Finance Risk and Audit board experience practices. related provisions in our Constitution regarding Board composition Committee and ceased to be a member of the Grower Services and shareholding requirements. However, where SunRice has not Committee. Experience with import/export practices, followed an ASX Recommendation, this has been identified in the International markets and trade knowledge of relevant trade law and appreciation Corporate Governance Statement, together with the reasons why The Board Skills Matrix (Table 1) summarises current Director skills of market opportunities. it has not been followed. Copies of the Corporate Governance and experience. The Board considers that its current members have an appropriate mix of skills and experience in order to discharge its Experience with appointing and evaluating senior Statement, key policies and practices and the charters for the responsibilities and deliver on SunRice’s strategic imperatives. Executive leadership management, succession planning and monitoring Board and its current Board Committees are available at corporate performance. www.sunrice.com.au/corporate-governance. The key areas of focus for the Board during FY2020, in addition to standing agenda items, are set out in Table 2. The focus areas for Including large organisation experience, audit SunRice is committed to continuous improvement and ensuring Audit and compliance including responsibility the Board Committees, in addition to standing agenda items, are committee expertise, setting and monitoring compliance against the ASX Recommendations (fourth edition), for culture and ethical standards set out in Table 3, and Director attendance is set out in Table 4. appropriate standards. where appropriate given the related provisions in our Constitution, and we will formally report against these for FY2021. Importance for SunRice Current Board strength (how many Directors the Board believe is the minimum (the number of Directors assessed as having that skill) number of Directors required to have that skill) Board qualifications Industry experience Directors’ average tenure Gender diversity The Board has qualifications The Board views relevant The Board considers it has an SunRice has not set a target in one or more of the skills and experience as appropriate mix of new, mid for female representation following fields. adding strength to the Board. and longer tenured Directors. on the Board however will The average tenure of the continue to seek to improve 3 Agricultural Science 4 Food Processing & FMCG Board is 5.3 years. the gender balance. 2 Engineering 8 Rice industry 5 3 1 2 18.2% 81.8% 2 Commerce/Economics 4 ASX/Board 1-3 years 4-6 years 7-9 years 10+ years Female Male 4 Financial management SUNRICE ANNUAL REPORT 2020 / 49 SUNRICE ANNUAL REPORT 2020 / 50 Corporate Governance Overview Continued Table 2 – Board key focus areas for FY2020 Focus areas Committee Focus areas Board • Overseeing the 2019 SunRice Grower Director Board elections and the subsequent induction of two People & Remuneration • Continued focus on increasing the representation of women in all leadership roles to 40 per cent new Directors to ensure they are well positioned to understand their responsibilities and add value to by FY2022 in line with our 2022 Growth Strategy. Further details are available in the Corporate the Board. Governance Statement on the website. • Appointment of a Board sub-committee to oversee the implementation of the recommendations • Reviewing and monitoring progress with the Group's Diversity and Inclusion Policy, including of the 2019 external Board evaluation. This has seen important changes proposed regarding Board ongoing improvement in the ‘no gender pay gap’ principle, which is a key part of the policy. composition, and changes to size, tenure and a comprehensive review of Board and Committee • Setting senior management objectives, for fixed and variable remuneration, including incentive Charters that reflect the ASX Recommendations (fourth edition). and equity plans. • Overseeing an executive development program and succession planning, thereby strengthening key • Overseeing the remuneration strategy, framework and reporting. talent to deliver on the 2022 Growth Strategy. • Overseeing executive succession planning and talent development. • Group performance in a challenging operating environment, including financial performance, health • Developing and making recommendations to the Board regarding employee engagement and and safety performance and progression of the 2022 Growth Strategy. workplace culture. • Reviewing the risk management framework, including the Risk Appetite Statement, to refresh and strengthen the approach to identifying, reporting and managing risk. This work resulted in SunRice being well positioned to respond to challenges such as COVID-19 and able to ensure business Nominations • Overseeing the process for external and internal Board, Board Committee and Non-executive continuity and the health and safety of our people, while meeting unprecedented consumer demand Director reviews and evaluations. for our products. • Recommendations to the Board regarding Board composition, size, tenure and skills. This included • Assessment and pursuit of strategic growth options for SunRice, which included leveraging our strong reviewing Director training and development needs and considering succession plans. balance sheet to optimise and integrate existing and new assets, such as FeedRite and our new • Overseeing the selection of Non-Grower Director candidates for re-election in light Vietnam Mill, and further develop international supply chains. of the skills, diversity and independence requirements of the Board. • Identifying ways to strengthen company culture commenced and will continue in FY2021, including • Overseeing the election process for SunRice Grower Directors. This included holding information reviewing the Code of Conduct, ongoing cultural intelligence training, promoting our updated Whistle sessions and encouraging candidates with the required skills, diversity and independence to Blower Policy and reporting on cultural metrics to improve Board visibility. nominate as candidates, including greater female representation. • Increased water advocacy with the NSW and Federal Governments on behalf of growers and the • Ensuring Director training and development needs were taken into account in preparing and Riverina rice industry to increase availability of water for rice production. implementing induction programs. • Monitoring against our sustainability framework (see www.sunrice.com.au/sustainability-reports), including Group performance, actions of management and systems that deliver on the promise in the Board Sustainability Charter: to lead in environmental, social and ethical business performance. Safety, Health & • Participating in reviews on safety, health and environment matters. Environment • Reviewing and monitoring safety culture systems, capability and risk, including overseeing initiatives to improve safety, health and environment performance. Table 3 – Board Committees' key focus areas for FY2020 • Monitoring health, safety and environment incidents and issues and ensuring effective resolution and process improvement by management. Committee Focus areas Grower Services • Reviewing and developing initiatives to produce Riverina rice. Finance, Risk & Audit • Overseeing the financial information production process, and in particular SunRice’s half-year and full • Developing and implementing policies that relate to on-farm rice, including Pure Seed, planning, year reports, to ensure their integrity and the appropriateness of accounting policies and principles quality assurance and traceability. applied and information disclosed. • Improving procedures that relate to harvest management receival and post-harvest reviews. • Overseeing the successful refinancing process in FY2020 to update and secure banking facilities • Reviewing and improving provision of payments to growers. and covenants on favourable terms, including the extension of long term facilities until 2024. This extension ensures SunRice is positioned to pursue opportunities in line with our 2022 Growth Strategy. • Managing relationships with growers and continuous improvement on services provided to growers. • Overseeing the delivery of the external audit, including considerations of the observations and recommendations issued by the external auditor. • Reviewing the effectiveness of SunRice’s governance and risk management systems to identify, assess and mitigate existing or emerging risks (including cyber security, COVID-19, climate and foreign exchange rates). • Overseeing the Internal Audit function including the assessment of the independence, objectivity, performance and effectiveness of internal auditing practices. • Monitoring issues, incidents and risks identified in the Internal Audit Reports and ensuring clear accountability to close out relevant issues. SUNRICE ANNUAL REPORT 2020 / 51 SUNRICE ANNUAL REPORT 2020 / 52 Corporate Governance Overview Continued Dr Andrew Current appointments Directors’ Committees: Member, Finance, Risk and Audit. Director, Crane Viridis Ag Pty Ltd; Viridis Ag Services Pty Ltd. Chair, Lawson Grains Pty Ltd; RAC WA Holdings Ltd. Chancellor, Curtin University. Non-executive Independent Director Previous appointments Non-Grower CEO, CBH. Director, CBH Joint Venture, Interflour. General Manager, Board of Directors BSc (Hons) PhD FAICD Strategy and Business Development, CBH; Marketing and Trading, CBH. Various manufacturing, purchasing and international sales The names of the persons who have been Directors, or appointed as Directors, during Director since 2018 roles in the European malting and brewing industry. Member, the the financial period and up to the date of this Annual Report are outlined as follows, Prime Minister’s B20 Leadership Group (2014). together with their tenure, qualifications, directorships and previous appointments. Laurie Arthur Current appointments Ian Glasson Current appointments Directors’ Committees: Chair, People and Remuneration. Member, Directors’ Committees: Chairman, Nomination. Member, People Chairman and Remuneration. Director, Aqaba Processing Company Ltd Non-executive Finance, Risk and Audit; Nomination. Director, Clover Corporation Non-executive Director (Jordan). Independent Director Limited. Grower Non-Grower Previous appointments BAgSc GAICD Previous appointments BEng (Hons) MIE Aust GAICD CEO, PGG Wrightson Ltd; Gold Coin Group/Zuellig Agriculture; President, Ricegrowers’ Association of Australia Inc. Commissioner, Sucrogen. Managing Director, Gresham Rabo Food and Moulamein Grower Director since 2016 National Water Commission. Agribusiness PE Fund; International Ingredients Division, Goodman Director since 2007 Chairman since 2014 Acknowledgements Fielder. Various management and engineering positions in Esso Honorary Councillor, Ricegrowers' Association of Australia Inc. Australia and its parent Exxon. Rob Gordon Current appointments Gillian Kirkup Current appointments Directors’ Committees: Member, Finance, Audit and Risk; People and Chairman, Ricegrowers Singapore Pte Ltd; Ricegrowers Vietnam LLC. Chief Executive Officer Director, Aqaba Processing Company Ltd (Jordan); Trukai Industries Ltd Non-executive Director Remuneration; Nomination. Member, Rice Marketing Board for the Executive Director (PNG); and various other non-operating subsidiaries of SunRice. Grower State of NSW; Riverina Local Land Services. Representative, Irrigation MAICD Research Extension Committee. Non-Grower Director, Ingham’s Group Limited. Member, Agribusiness Advisory Board, Rabobank. Yanco Grower Previous appointments Director since 2005 Chairman, Murrumbidgee Irrigation Limited. Member, NSW BSc (Hons) CEng MAICD Previous appointments Agricultural Consultative Committee to the Bureau of Meteorology; Director since 2012 Director, Bread Research Institute of Australia Ltd. Member, Advisory Reference panel for the Prime Minister’s Working Group on Soil, Water Board, Gresham Private Equity. Deputy Chair, Australian Food and and Food. Director, Basin Community Association; NSW Irrigators’ Grocery Council. Council. Delegate, National Irrigators’ Council. For executive experience please refer to the Corporate Management Acknowledgements Team profiles on page 47. Named one of the Top 100 Women in Australian Agribusiness (2014). Honorary Councillor, Ricegrowers' Association of Australia Inc. John Bradford Current appointments Directors’ Committees: Chair, Grower Services. Chairman, Trukai Ian Mason Current appointments Directors’ Committees: Member, Finance, Risk and Audit; Safety, Non-executive Director Industries Limited (PNG). Member, Rice Marketing Board for the Non-executive Director Health and Environment. Director, Trukai Industries Limited (PNG). Grower State of NSW. Grower Member, Rice Marketing Board for the State of NSW; Southern MAICD Previous appointments MAICD Growers. Mayrung Grower Chairman, Southern Riverina Irrigators. Alternate Delegate, Finley Grower Previous appointments Director since 2015 Deniliquin Branch, Ricegrowers' Association of Australia Inc. Director since 2017 Chairman, AgriFutures Australia Rice Advisory Panel. Luisa Catanzaro Current appointments Directors’ Committees: Chair, Finance, Risk and Audit. Member, Jeremy Morton Current appointments Directors’ Committees: Member, Grower Services; Safety, Non-executive People and Remuneration; Nomination. Director, The BeCause Non-executive Director Health and Environment. Member, National Irrigators’ Council; Independent Director Movement Foundation Ltd. Ex-Officio Member, Museum of (appointed on 22 August 2019) Ricegrowers' Association Water Committee. Ricegrowers' Non-Grower Contemporary Art Australia Finance Committee. Grower Association Delegate, National Farmers Federation Water BComm FCA GAICD Taskforce. Previous appointments MAICD Director since 2018 CFO, Lynas Corporation Limited. CFO and Company Secretary, Moulamein Grower Previous appointments Dairy Farmers; The Australian Agricultural Company Limited. Senior Director since 2019 President and Chairman, Ricegrowers' Association of Australia. finance roles, Pioneer International Limited. Senior Audit Manager, Graduate, Rice Industry Emerging Leaders and Established Leaders Arthur Andersen. Programs; Australian Rural Leaders Program. SUNRICE ANNUAL REPORT 2020 / 53 SUNRICE ANNUAL REPORT 2020 / 54 Corporate Governance Overview Continued Directors’ interests in shares Independence of Directors Dr Leigh Vial Current appointments Directors’ Committees: Chair, Safety, Health and Environment. Directors’ interests in A and B Class Shares of Ricegrowers Limited The Board regularly reviews the independence of each Director, Non-executive Director Member, Grower Services. Director, Agripak Pty Ltd. Adjunct Fellow, are shown in the Remuneration Report on pages 59 73. having regard to the ASX Corporate Governance Principles and Grower University of Queensland. Recommendations. In accordance with those Principles and Recommendations, a Director will be considered independent BAgrSc (Hons) MEc PhD GAICD Previous appointments Directors’ benefits if they are a Non-executive Director who is free of any interest, Moulamein Grower Head of Experiment Station, International Rice Research Institute The Directors have direct dealings with the company on the position or relationship that might influence, or reasonably be Director since 2015 (Philippines). Representative, AgriFutures Rice Research Committee. same terms and conditions that apply to all members whether by perceived to influence, in a material respect his or her capacity to contractual arrangements or otherwise. No Director has received or bring an independent judgement to bear on issues before the Board become entitled to receive a benefit by reason of a contract made and to act in the best interests of the company and its shareholders generally as a whole, rather than in the interest of an individual Julian Zanatta Current appointments Directors’ Committees: Member, Grower Services; Safety, Health and by the company or a controlled entity with the Director or a firm of which the Director has a substantial financial interest other than a shareholder or other party. Non-executive Director Environment. benefit included in the aggregate amount of emoluments received Each Non-executive Director is required to provide to the Board (appointed on 22 August 2019) or due and receivable by Directors as shown in the Remuneration Previous appointments all information that may be relevant to the assessment of their Report. Several Directors sit on local boards which have dealings Grower Nil. independence status. with the rice industry. MAICD Directors who hold A Class Shares are also rice growers who supply Benerembah Grower rice to the Group. While these Directors supply rice on the same Director since 2019 terms as all other rice growers, the Board recognises that there may be a perception that the rice supply relationship between the Group and these Directors may influence the decision making of these Directors. Accordingly, while they are able to bring an independent judgement to bear on Board decisions, Directors who supply rice to Glen Andreazza Current appointments the Group have not been characterised as independent due to this Councillor, Griffith City Council. Table 4 – Directors' meetings potential perception concern. Non-executive Director Previous appointments (retired on 22 August 2019) Mirrool Branch Alternate Delegate, Ricegrowers’ Association of Grower Australia Inc. Board Finance, Grower People & Nomination Safety, Adv Dip Agr FAICD Risk & Audit Services Remuneration Committee Health & Willbriggie Grower Committee Committee Committee Environment Director 2011 – 2019 Committee Attended Possible Attended Possible Attended Possible Attended Possible Attended Possible Attended Possible Mark Robertson Current appointments: LJ Arthur* 9 9 5 5 4 4 5 5 5 5 Nil. G Andreazza 3 3 2 2 1 1 Non-executive Director Previous appointments: (retired on 22 August 2019) J Bradford 9 9 4 4 Director, Trukai Industries Limited (PNG). Grower L Catanzaro 9 9 5 5 5 5 5 5 MAICD A Crane 9 9 5 5 Berriquin Grower I Glasson 9 9 5 5 5 5 5 5 Director 1996 – 2019 R Gordon** 9 9 5 5 4 4 5 5 5 5 3 3 G Kirkup 9 9 5 5 5 5 4 5 Mandy Refer to the Corporate Management Team profiles on page 47. I Mason 9 9 2 2 2 3 3 3 Del Gigante J Morton 6 6 2 2 2 2 M Robertson 3 3 1 2 1 1 Company Secretary L Vial 9 9 3 3 3 3 J Zanatta 6 6 2 2 2 2 In addition to the above meetings, Directors met regularly out of session, as required, and weekly during April 2020 in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. * LJ Arthur is not a member of the Finance, Risk and Audit Committee or the Grower Services Committee however attends meetings ** R Gordon attends all Committee Meetings G Andreazza and M Robertson retired on 22 August 2019 SUNRICE ANNUAL REPORT 2020 / 55 J Morton and J Zanatta commenced on 22 August 2019 SUNRICE ANNUAL REPORT 2020 / 56 Directors Directors’ Report Report Directors’ Report Continued Your Directors present their report on the consolidated entity (referred to hereafter as SunRice or the Group) consisting of Ricegrowers Limited and the 10. Likely developments and expected results of operations entities it controlled at the end of, or during the financial year ended 30 April 2020. Likely developments in the operations of the Group have been disclosed in the Our Outlook section on pages 45 and 46 of this Annual Report. 1. Information on Directors and Company Secretary 11. Environmental regulation Details of the Directors, Company Secretary and their qualifications, including current and previous directorships, are available in the Corporate Governance Overview on pages 53 to 55. The Group is subject to environmental regulation in respect of its land development, construction and manufacturing activities in Australia and other international operations including: 2. Directors’ independence, interests in shares, benefits and meetings • Land development planning approvals under the NSW Environmental Planning and Assessment Act 1979 and Development Victoria Act 2003; Details of the Directors’ independence, interests in shares, benefits and attendance at the various meetings held during the year are available in the and Corporate Governance Overview on page 56 and the remuneration section of this Director’s report. • Compliance with Protection of the NSW Environment Operations Act 1997, Victoria Environment Protection Act 2017, the NSW Environmentally 3. Principal activities Hazardous Chemicals Act 1985, the Waste Avoidance and NSW Resource Recovery Act 2001, QLD Environmental Protection Act 1994, California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) 1970, PNG Environment Act 2000 and Jordan Environmental Protection Law No. 52 of 2006. The principal activities of Ricegrowers Limited and its controlled entities consist of the receipt and storage of paddy rice, milling and processing of rice, manufacturing, procurement, distribution and marketing of rice and related products, animal feed and nutrition products and other grocery, gourmet and SunRice has 18 registered Environmental Protection Authority (EPA) licenses in NSW, one in California, USA and one Development Approval in Queensland entertainment food products and the research and development into the growing of rice. requiring annual returns. All Australian sites completed and submitted their annual returns during the financial year, and: 4. Dividends Dividends distributed to members during the financial year were as follows: • Any complaints received in relation to environmental issues were and continue to be investigated and action plans were and continue to be implemented to reduce the impact of the SunRice Group’s activities. 2020 2019 $000's $000's • Any non conformances were managed through the internal compliance management system Final dividend for the year ended 30 April 2019 of 33 cents (2018: 33 cents) per outstanding ordinary B • Three pollution reduction programs have been completed at the licensed facilities, two at Leeton CopRice Mill and one at Leeton Mill (one at Class share 19,212 18,780 Leeton CopRice Mill and one at Leeton Mill were opened and closed in the same reporting year) T o t a l di v i den d di s t r i bu t ed 19,212 18,780 Greenhouse gas and energy data reporting requirements Since the end of the financial year, the directors have recommended the distribution of a fully franked final dividend of 19,540,000 (33 cents per fully paid The Group is subject to the reporting requirements of the Australian National Greenhouse and Energy Reporting (NGER) Act 2007. outstanding ordinary B Class Share) to be paid on 30 July 2020 out of retained profits at 30 April 2020. SunRice assessed its Australian energy usage and submitted its Australian National Greenhouse and Energy Report to the Clean Energy Regulator during the year, reporting on scope 1 and 2 emissions within Australian Operations. The following table reports outcomes for the past five years. 5. Consolidated entity result Financial Year AU Gigajoules of energy# AU TCO2e Scope 1,2 Emissions# Non AU SRG TCO2e Scope 1,2 The profit before income tax of the Group for the period was $31,110,000 (2019: $48,411,000). Emissions* The net profit after income tax of the Group for the period was $22,680,000 (2019: $32,767,000). 2014-2015 543,226 99,274 N/A The net profit of the Group for the period after income tax and after non-controlling interests was $27,013,000 (2019: $31,498,000). 2015-2016 424,349 68,461 N/A 6. Review of operations 2016-2017 422,923 71,152 N/A A comprehensive review of operations is set out in the Our Financial Performance and Position section of this Annual Report on pages 17 to 25. 2017-2018 487,956 84,547 25,099 7. Response to COVID-19 2018-2019 385,456 60,021 35,845 As noted in the Corporate Governance Overview section of this annual report (page 56), in addition to regular meetings, the Directors met briefly on an ad #SunRice NGER Report for 2018-2019 taxation financial year hoc basis, as required, and weekly during April 2020, in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. Further details about the Group’s response to this event are *SunRice Group (SRG) Sourced from SunRice Sustainability Data 2018-2019 crop year non Australian Emissions may be subject to variations available in the Our Financial Performance and Position section of this Annual Report on pages 17 and 18. Note: at the time of publishing this report, 2019-2020 data is not yet available 8. Significant changes in the state of affairs During the year, the SunRice Group’s division, CopRice, completed the acquisition of 100% of the extrusion assets of FeedRite Pty Ltd (FeedRite). On 8 July 2019, Ricegrowers New Zealand Ltd, a wholly owned subsidiary of Ricegrowers Limited, was incorporated in New Zealand. In the opinion of the Directors, there were no other significant changes in the state of affairs of the Group that occurred during the financial period under review, not otherwise disclosed in the annual report. 9. Events since the end of the financial year Other than the declaration of a fully franked dividend of 33 cents per ordinary B Class Shares (refer to section 4 of this Directors’ Report), the Directors are not aware of any matter or circumstance, since the end of the financial year, not otherwise dealt with in this annual report that has significantly, or may significantly, affect the operations of the consolidated entity, the results of those operations, or the state of affairs of the consolidated entity in subsequent financial periods. SUNRICEANNUAL SUNRICE 2020// 57 REPORT2020 ANNUALREPORT 57 SUNRICE ANNUAL SUNRICE REPORT 2020 ANNUAL REPORT 58 2020 // 58 Directors Directors’Report Report Directors’ Report Continued Continued 12. Remuneration report (audited) Executive Summary At SunRice, our remuneration strategy is designed to create value for our shareholders by aligning the Total Rewards Strategy to the achievement of Message from the Chairman of the People and Remuneration Committee business goals determined in the context of our long term strategy. Dear A and B Class Shareholders, Rewards Philosophy On behalf of the People and Remuneration Committee of the SunRice Board, I am pleased to present the Remuneration Report for the FY2020 Financial At SunRice: Year. As outlined earlier in this Annual Report, FY2020 was an extraordinary year for the Group. However, in the face of a range of challenges including deteriorating conditions in key global markets (particularly in the Pacific), continued small Riverina crops, and impacts of COVID-19, the Group’s  We attract, motivate, engage and retain talented employees who deliver on our strategic goals and that of our shareholders, rice growers, and the Management team achieved strong results against agreed objectives and targets and continued to deliver value for both A and B Class Shareholders. communities in which we operate. The Board has carefully considered its remuneration arrangements and determined they are appropriate to drive performance of the business and delivery  We meaningfully differentiate rewards based on individual performance and behaviours, team and cross-functional contribution, business and of value to A and B Class Shareholders into the future. We will be engaging with A and B Class Shareholders in the lead up to the 2020 AGM in relation to this grower mindset, company affordability and market positioning. report.  We offer competitive Total Packages, aligned with a globally consistent framework, yet adapted to changing local business conditions. FY2020 remuneration outcomes  Our value proposition across our diverse workforce is unique with opportunities aligned with being an Australian owned, global organisation. The outcomes set out below reflect the strong performance of the Management team in delivering against agreed objectives in the face of the difficult circumstances the Group encountered in FY2020.  Our strategy is underpinned by fairness and consistency in our approach and we aim to be at the forefront of our competitors. Specifically, despite the significant headwinds discussed above, the Management team demonstrated enormous effort in achieving or exceeding most  We care for our employees and provide opportunities to strengthen their health and well-being. agreed objectives and targets. This included delivering Group Net Profit After Tax, declaring a fully franked dividend for our Shareholders in line with the prior year, and continuing to execute against the 2022 Growth Strategy. Examples included activating new global supply chains, developing new innovative  We retain and develop key talents who deliver on our long-term strategy and demonstrate career potential in areas critical to our long-term strategy. product offerings across multiple segments and expanding production capabilities. The Group also offered high fixed price contracts to Riverina growers in  We recognise employees who Make a Difference. FY2020, which ensured plantings for the 2019 crop year in the face of high water prices, low water allocations and continued drought. The Board was also pleased to see a recovery in the share price since mid-way through FY2020 and maintained throughout the global COVID-19 pandemic. Outline of this Remuneration Report Whilst the Management team has been able to deliver strong overall Group performance through global initiatives, it has been a difficult year in some of the The Remuneration Report has the following sections: Australian and Pacific businesses. Accordingly, Short Term Incentive payments were below target in those areas.  Overview Market-related increases on average were applied to Key Management Personnel (KMP) fixed remuneration during the reporting period, in line with our  Key Management Personnel remuneration philosophy to reward high performance.  Remuneration Governance at SunRice  Executive Remuneration Policy and Framework It is the first year of Long Term Incentive (LTI) vesting since the reintroduction of equity plans in FY2017. We are pleased to award the first participant group  Remuneration Tables an LTI outcome reflective of the Group’s strong performance over the past three years despite the drought and external challenges that SunRice has faced  Remuneration of non-executive Directors over this period. The Board remains committed to continuing to review the progress against the LTI performance conditions and the importance of  Shareholdings and other mandatory disclosures retaining critical talent at SunRice.  Voting and comments made at Ricegrowers Limited’s Annual General Meeting New LTI Plan for the CEO This Remuneration Report has been audited and prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Corporations Act 2001. The Board considers equity incentive plans an important tool to attract, retain and motivate talented senior executives, particularly in the current Five-year financial performance challenging environment impacted by consecutive years of extremely small Riverina rice crops, COVID-19 and deteriorating conditions in key markets, particularly in the Pacific. SunRice aims to align our executive remuneration to our strategic objectives and the creation of shareholder wealth. The table below sets out the measures that show the Group’s financial performance over the past five years. However, these are not necessarily consistent with the The Board has determined that with the conclusion of CEO Rob Gordon’s current LTI performance period on 30 April 2021, it is imperative to put in place the measures used in determining the variable amounts of remuneration to be awarded to Key Management Personnel (KMP) as outlined in section next LTI Plan to retain and appropriately incentivise the CEO. Accordingly, the Board has invited Mr Gordon to participate in a new three-year LTI plan 12.4. Therefore, there may not be a direct correlation between the statutory related key performance measures and the variable remuneration commencing on 1 May 2021. Since commencing as CEO in 2012, Mr Gordon has demonstrated strong leadership to SunRice through increases to paddy awarded. prices paid to Riverina growers and strong financial performance in both favorable and challenging market conditions. Mr Gordon also oversaw the successful listing of the SunRice Group on the Australian Securities Exchange in April 2019. Mr Gordon has also developed the 2022 Growth Strategy, to 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 further diversify earnings and deliver increased value to both A and B Class Shareholders, and is now leading execution of that strategy. This includes leveraging SunRice’s strong balance sheet to continue pursuing value-accretive merger and acquisition opportunities. He has also diversified SunRice’s Group NPBT ($000s) 31, 110 48,411 62,862 40,289 73,172 international rice sourcing capabilities to ensure growing global demand for branded products can be met across its approximately 50 international Medium Grain Paddy Price ($/t) 500. 00 411.19 378.66 415.00 403.60 markets. Basic Earnings per B Class Share (cents) 45. 8 54.5 75.9 61.3 88.0 The Board will be seeking approval for the granting of B Class Share rights to Mr Gordon under the FY2022-FY2024 LTI Plan at a B Class Shareholder meeting Return on Capital employed (%) (1) 6. 6% 9.9% 15.1% 10.3% 15.1% to be held after the SunRice Group’s 2020 AGM. On behalf of the SunRice Board and People and Remuneration Committee, I invite you to read the FY2020 Dividend (cents per B Class Share) 33. 0 33.0 33.0 33.0 33.0 Remuneration Report and welcome your feedback. Increase / decrease in share price (%) -20. 8% 62.9% -6.8% 1.9% -8.7% Average STI payment as a % of target STI opportunity for Key Management Personnel (2) 156. 2% 113.1% 135.3% 26.7% 83.7% 1. Return On Capital Employed is defined as the ratio of Profit Before Income Tax and Interest to Net Assets excluding Cash and Borrowings. 2. SunRice Chief Executive Officer is excluded and participates under a separate STI plan. Ian Glasson Chairman, People and Remuneration Committee SUNRICEANNUAL SUNRICE 2020// 59 REPORT2020 ANNUALREPORT 59 SUNRICE ANNUAL SUNRICE REPORT 2020 ANNUAL REPORT 60 2020 // 60 Directors Directors’Report Report Directors’ Report Continued Continued 12.1 Overview 12.4 Executive Remuneration Policy and Framework The Directors are pleased to provide shareholders with this Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 April 2020, which outlines the Board’s approach to The Remuneration Strategy, as approved by the Board for implementation during the FY2020 reporting period, provided guidance and parameters for remuneration for Non-executive Directors, the Executive Director and other KMP. governing Executive remuneration. The Board recognises that to deliver the Company’s strategy for growth, the Group needs to attract, motivate and retain high-quality employees and Executives. The Remuneration Framework outlined below is designed to fit the objectives of the Group, having regard to the size In accordance with the Constitution of Ricegrowers Limited, certain Directors are appointed as Directors of the Company based on their status as elected and complexity of the Group’s operations. members of the Rice Marketing Board (RMB). The information in this report has been audited as required by section 308(3C) of the Corporations Act 2001. SunRice Business Strategic Goals – SunRice’s 2022 Growth Strategy The Remuneration Framework has been designed to support the SunRice 2022 Growth Strategy., an outline of which is available on pages 13 and 14 of 12.2 Key Management Personnel this annual report. For the purpose of this Remuneration Report, the term ‘Executive’ is used to describe current and former Executives of the Group listed below (including the Executive Director). These Executives, in addition to the Non-Executive Directors represent the KMP of the Group for the 2020 financial year (FY2020), being Remuneration Framework for the FY2020 reporting period persons who, during the year, had authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group, directly or indirectly (as Total Fixed Remuneration (TFR) Variable ‘at risk’ remuneration defined under Australian Accounting Standards). The KMP of the Group for the year ended 30 April 2020 were: Total Fixed Remuneration Short Term Incentive (STI) Long Term Incentive (LTI) Name Position Set at a competitive level to attract, retain and Aligned to the achievement of SunRice’s business The Chief Executive Officer, Executives and key A. Current Directors (including the Executive Director) maintain engagement at all levels, with superior objectives measured over the short term. individuals are eligible to participate in LTI plans LJ Arthur Non-executive Director and Chairman offerings for our key talents and employees Details of the Chief Executive Officer’s STI plan are that are focused on the achievement of targets set considered critical to the long-term growth of outlined in section 12.4.4. by the Board over a three-year period. RF Gordon Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer the company. It is reflective of building long-term value for the GA Andreazza (retired August 2019) Non-executive Director For participants in the Group STI Plan, financial Remuneration takes into consideration: and non-financial KPIs based on performance organisation and its shareholders. JMJ Bradford Non-executive Director (RMB elected member)  Size and complexity of the role goals consist of: L Catanzaro Non-executive Director (Independent)  Skills and competencies needed to  Maximising Paddy Prices for growers, net AJ Crane Non-executive Director (Independent) generate results profit after tax across the Group and net profit ID Glasson Non-executive Director (Independent)  Internal and external alignment before tax within each Business Unit or GL Kirkup Non-executive Director (RMB elected member)  Performance of the Company, and Subsidiary individual  Business Unit/Subsidiary specific targets that JJ Morton (appointed August 2019) Non-executive Director  Succession planning and retention. focus on functional KPIs, quality and IR Mason Non-executive Director (RMB elected member) In some circumstances, the local economic and conversions costs DM Robertson (retired August 2019) Non-executive Director  The achievement of Safety, Health and market conditions may require further refined LK Vial Non-executive Director Environment targets market positioning. JL Zanatta (appointed August 2019) Non-executive Director  Individual performance aligned with the B. Current Executives performance management philosophy of measuring both the ‘what’ and ‘how’. DC Courtelis Chief Financial Officer DJP Keldie General Manager, Global Consumer Markets Total Rewards Strategy The Total Rewards Strategy supports the Business and People and Culture strategy to: 12.3 Remuneration Governance at SunRice  Deliver on our Rewards Philosophy and Total Rewards Strategy whilst supporting the Group with achieving our SunRice strategic goals The People and Remuneration Committee conducts a regular review of the Company’s remuneration policy and structure to ensure it remains aligned to  Build great foundations for leaders to have the knowledge, processes and tools to make business needs and meets our remuneration principles. informed rewards decisions From time to time the Committee engages external remuneration consultants to assist with this review as outlined below. The Committee is responsible for  Flex our strategic offer as required locally in our ever-changing global workforce making recommendations to the Board in respect of Directors’ and Executives’ remuneration, however makes no formal decisions on behalf of the Board.  Consider opportunities for thought leadership whilst aligning the financial interests of Committee members are outlined in the Corporate Governance Overview section of this report on pages 53 to 55 and the People and Remuneration executives and shareholders Committee Charter is available on the Group’s website.  Ensure our strategy balances risk and reward to deliver ongoing company sustainability and growth Remuneration Consultants  At all times, embed our values, in “what” we do and “how” we do it. In line with the Rewards strategy, Deloitte and Guerdon Associates were approved by the People and Remuneration Committee to provide market benchmarking on the Executive Remuneration Framework and in particular the incentive schemes and policies. The strategy is delivered across all aspects of our SunRice Total Rewards offer including:  Remuneration; The information is being considered as part of reviewing the effectiveness of the incentive schemes and the upcoming Long Term Incentive Plan and  Incentives; Employee Share Scheme to ensure SunRice remains competitively positioned and able to attract and retain our Executive talent through what has been  Benefits; and continues to be a challenging period due to the ongoing drought conditions and worldwide COVID-19 pandemic.  Health and Well-being; For the purposes of the Corporations Act, it is noted that the consultants did not provide remuneration recommendations.  Recognition; and  Career Paths. Corporate Governance The Total Rewards offer aims to provide a competitive offer across all aspects of Total Rewards, Further information on the Committee’s responsibilities and the Group’s governance practices can be found in our Corporate Governance Statement, as inclusive of all life stages and accommodating of a diverse workforce. available on the Group’s website. SUNRICEANNUAL SUNRICE REPORT2020 ANNUALREPORT 61 2020// 61 SUNRICE ANNUAL SUNRICE REPORT 2020 ANNUAL REPORT 62 2020 // 62 Directors Directors’Report Report Directors’ Report Continued Continued 12.4.1 Remuneration mix The Board believes it is appropriate to have a Remuneration Framework that comprises a fixed salary component as well as an at-risk component Executives STI Plan comprising short and long-term incentives. Objectives 1. Support SunRice’s annual strategic goals by rewarding Executives for the achievement of objectives directly linked to the The Group’s mix of fixed and “at risk” components for the KMP as at the end of the FY2020 reporting period, expressed as a percentage of total target reward, business strategy. are as follows: 2. Drive short-term Company performance with acceptable risk and appropriate governance. 3. Be market competitive, ensuring SunRice is able to compete to attract and retain high quality talent to continue to improve C E O S unRice G roup C F O SunRice Gr oup G M G lo bal Co nsume r Ma rket s the Group’s performance. Eligibility KMP (excluding the Chief Executive Officer), Executives and Leaders Instrument Cash Opportunity Target: 40% of TFR for the Chief Financial Officer, and 40% of TFR for the General Manager Global Consumer Markets, with a stretch component for outperformance applicable. Target opportunity for other eligible employees varies based on job level. Performance 1 May 2019 to 30 April 2020 period Assessment of Each period, KPIs are selected for both Group and business unit measures and sub-measures of performance. The weighting of TFR 45.4% STI 22.7% LTI 31.9% TFR 60.6% STI 24.2% LTI 15.2% TFR 64.5% STI 25.8% LTI 9.7% performance KPIs reflects the individual Executive roles and responsibilities. KPIs are focused on the improvement in profit, maximisation of return to growers and strategic and operational goals. Executive KMP KPIs for FY2020 were: 12.4.2 Total Fixed Remuneration Total Fixed Remuneration (TFR) includes base salary, superannuation plus other short-term benefits and/or allowances. Weighting Link to strategy Detail Adjusted Group Net Profit 40%–50% Strong financial growth will Awarded on a straight-line performance approach Executives may elect to take a range of benefits as part of their remuneration package, including novated leased vehicle, additional superannuation or After Tax (NPAT) lead to sustainable returns between 95% of target (at which point 50% is remote housing subsidy (where applicable). to shareholders. awarded) and 110% of target (at which point stretch The Group’s remuneration policy is to offer competitive Total Fixed Remuneration and utilise ‘at risk’ variable pay to reward outstanding performance and is applicable). contribution. Business Unit 40%–50% Strong financial and/or nonEach Executive is set targets for their respective The remuneration offer for employees targeted as our “talent group” is at a more attractive position as part of the Total Rewards philosophy, including LTI specific KPIs financial performance Business Unit and key drivers for success. and career development opportunities where appropriate nationally and/or internationally. in each Business Unit leads Stretch is applicable. to strong overall results 12.4.3 Short-Term Incentive (STI) plan and greater returns for The STI component of remuneration is a cash plan focused on rewarding participants for the delivery of financial and non-financial measures required to shareholders. achieve the Group’s critical business objectives. Business Unit – 10% SunRice is committed to SHE targets for each Business Unit, vary based on key The Directors rigorously test the annual STI performance measures to ensure the performance required to achieve “on target” results is appropriately Safety, Health & achieving Zero Harm. priorities, including measuring a decrease in Total stretching. Environment (SHE) Achieving this goal is Recordable Injury Frequency Rate and/or the focus important in ensuring the on lead indicators. To continue the key focus on driving a safe working culture, the Directors approved additional Safety metrics as part of the FY2020 STI plan. sustainable success of our Leaders also have leadership safety activities to The overall structure of the FY2020 STI plan is illustrated below: business. proactively drive a safety focused culture. Stretch is applicable. Total 100% At target – excluding stretch Individual Performance 0%-150% The continuous Each Executive is set individual performance (as a Multiplier) development measures relating to their role as an individual = + STI Target Group Business Individual of our leadership team is contributor. Value Targets Unit Targets Performance imperative to ensuring the The final performance rating correlates to a Group continues to percentage of between 0% and 150% (100% adapt to strategic equivalent to achieving performance). challenges. This percentage is then multiplied with the overall total achievement (including stretch) of adjusted The Chief Executive Officer participates in a separate STI plan, the details of which are outlined at section 12.4.4. Group NPAT, Business Unit KPIs and SHE KPIs to determine a final outcome. Assessment The People and Remuneration Committee reviews the performance assessment of each Executive, and recommends the STI payments to the Board committee for approval. SUNRICEANNUAL SUNRICE 2020// 63 REPORT2020 ANNUALREPORT 63 SUNRICE ANNUAL SUNRICE REPORT 2020 ANNUAL REPORT 64 2020 // 64 Directors Directors’Report Report Directors’ Report Continued Continued 12.4.4 FY2020 Chief Executive Officer STI Plan 12.4.7 Details of Executive (and other eligible employees) LTI Plans The Chief Executive Officer participates in a cash settled STI plan. The Chief Executive Officer’s target STI opportunity is 50% of TFR and may increase to 150% of TFR where stretch performance outcomes for the year have been achieved. FY2018-FY2020 LTI plan FY2019-FY2021 LTI plan FY2020-FY2022 LTI plan The People and Remuneration Committee reviews and approves the Chief Executive Officer’s annual performance assessment and STI payments at the end Quantum Quantum is determined based on a Quantum is determined based on a target Quantum is determined based on a target of the performance period. Details of the Chief Executive Officer’s KPIs, relative weighting and key achievement outcomes for FY2020 are outlined below: target percentage of Total Fixed percentage of Total Fixed Remuneration, percentage of Total Fixed Remuneration, Remuneration and the B Class Share and the volume weighted average price and the VWAP of B Class Shares traded on Total Value price applicable to the 2018 Grower (VWAP) of B Class Shares traded on the the ASX over the last five days prior to 1 (excluding FY2020 CEO STI Share Purchase Plan ($3.92). NSX over the last five days prior to 1 May May 2019, being the commencement of stretch) Achievement Total plan participants (including KMP): 2018, being the commencement of the the performance period ($6.58). Objective Rationale link to strategy STI measurement Percentage 155,350 B Class share rights granted. performance period ($3.99). Total plan participants (including KMP): #1 Maximise Grower Returns Developing a plan for a sustainable An approved plan and progress on 25% Achieved stretch Chief Financial Officer (KMP): not Total plan participants (including KMP): 175,050 B Class Share rights granted. Riverina cost base that maximises identifiable steps to maximise the crop performance eligible 204,890 B Class Share rights granted. Chief Financial Officer (KMP): 25,660 B Grower returns Chief Financial Officer (KMP): 40,730 B Class Share rights granted. General Manager Global Consumer #2 Maximise Group Net Profit After Strong financial growth will lead to Group NPAT 25% Achieved stretch Class Share rights granted. Markets (KMP): 24,400 B Class Share General Manager Global Consumer Tax (NPAT) sustainable returns to B Class performance rights granted. General Manager Global Consumer Markets (KMP): 11,410 B Class Share rights Shareholders Markets (KMP): 19,000 B Class Share rights granted. #3 Ensure the Welfare and Safety of Creating a safe workplace is essential to Completion of proactive Safety measures 10% Achieved 91% granted. our People ensure sustainable business including Leadership activities, Action outcome performance Register Closure rates, and Compliance Grant date 16 March 2018 1 October 2018 1 August 2019 Activity Completion rates Performance 1 May 2017 to 30 April 2020 1 May 2018 to 30 April 2021 1 May 2019 to 30 April 2022 #4 Successful launch, profile and Successful ASX listing with appropriate Various KPIs determined by the Board 15% Achieved Target period investor relations with ASX listing investor relations program #5 Successful delivery of the M&A Achieving successful acquisition, Various KPIs determined by the Board 25% Achieved Target Fair Value of B The fair value of the B Class Share rights The fair value of the B Class Share rights at The fair value of the B Class Share rights agenda expansion and operational set up to Class Share at grant date was estimated by taking grant date was estimated by taking the at grant date was estimated by taking the deliver on growth agenda rights granted the market price of the company’s B market price of the company’s B Class market price of the company’s B Class 100% 1, 044, 613 Class Shares on that date ($4.00) less Shares on that date ($7.20) less the present Shares on that date ($4.80) less the the present value of expected dividends value of expected dividends that will not be present value of expected dividends that 12.4.5 FY2020 STI Outcomes that will not be received by the received by the participants on their B Class will not be received by the participants on The outcomes of the STI plan reflect a strong delivery against targets in FY2020, resulting in stretch achievements on NPAT. Business Unit specific KPI results, participants on their B Class Share Share rights during the three year vesting their B Class Share rights during the three as well as Safety outcomes for both the CFO and GM, Global Consumer Markets also resulted in stretch payouts. Taking into consideration the Individual rights during the three year vesting period, resulting in the fair value (for year vesting period, resulting in the fair Performance element that impacts the overall STI results for the KMP (excluding the CEO), the payouts outlined below were achieved from a potential period, resulting in the fair value (for accounting purposes) of $6.33. value (for accounting purposes) of $3.93. 187.5% maximum opportunity: accounting purposes) of $3.15. Target STI KPIs included 50% financial measures: 50% financial measures: 20% Achievement of the progress on the KMP opportunity $ As a % of TFR STI Outcome $ % Achieved % Forfeited in • Total Net Profit Before Tax • Return on Capital Employed (ROCE) 2022 Growth Strategy, including Performance International and Riverina priorities or • Return on Capital Employed • Maximising Grower Return over time. Chief Executive Officer $700,613 50% $1,044,613 149% hurdles M&A long term growth strategy (as (ROCE) 50% strategic measures determined in Chief Financial Officer $270,000 40% $421,875 156% applicable) 50% strategic measures determined in line with the Group’s strategic initiatives General Manager Global Consumer Markets $200,200 40% $312,812 156% 20% Realisation of unadjusted Earnings line with the Group’s strategic initiatives and long-term objectives. Per Share (EPS) growth and long-term objectives. 12.4.6 Long-Term Incentive (LTI) plan 20% Maximisation of Grower Return over The LTI plan is an equity-based plan, whereby eligible participants are invited to accept B Class Share rights that will vest over a three-year term, subject to time or launch of products in new the achievement of performance hurdles and service criteria. markets (as applicable) LTI plans are expected to be granted annually to reward superior performance and the achievement of long-term goals and encourage retention of critical 20% Strategic review refresh key talent. LTI components are consistent across all Executive plans. 20% People and High performance culture objectives Executive LTI Component Vesting Performance is assessed over the threePerformance is assessed over the threePerformance is assessed over the threeEligibility Executives and other employees invited to participate. schedule year period from 1 May 2017 to 30 April year period from 1 May 2018 to 30 April year period from 1 May 2019 to 30 April Instrument 2020 and vests on 30 April 2020 (with B 2021 and vests on 30 April 2021 (with B 2022 and vests on 30 April 2020 (with B Equity. Class Shares issued immediately Class Shares issued immediately Class Shares issued immediately Performance period Three-year performance period commencing 1 May of the first year of the performance period. following release of the audited following release of the audited financial following release of the audited financial Performance financial results). results). results). The Board selected relevant performance measures to align with increased shareholder value and growers’ interest hurdles applicable for each plan. B Class share rights will lapse if performance conditions are not met. Forecasted/Ac Based on the achievement of the The vesting for KMP based on the current The vesting for KMP based on the current tual vesting performance hurdles for the overall status of the performance hurdles for the status of the performance hurdles for the Vesting schedule Performance is assessed over the three-year period and vests at the end of the performance period (with shares issued plan and participating KMP, the LTI B overall plan, is anticipated to be 75%, overall plan, is anticipated to be 100%, immediately following release of the audited financial results). Class Share rights vested at 99.8%, resulting in an expected 25% forfeiture. resulting in an expected 0% forfeiture. Termination The Board retains discretion to cancel any unpaid, unvested or deferred LTI in part or in full in the event of financial resulting in a 0.2% forfeiture. misstatements. B Class Share rights will be forfeited on cessation of employment unless the Board determines otherwise. SUNRICEANNUAL SUNRICE 2020// 65 REPORT2020 ANNUALREPORT 65 SUNRICE ANNUAL SUNRICE REPORT 2020 ANNUAL REPORT 66 2020 // 66 Directors Directors’Report Report Directors’ Report Continued Continued 12.4.8 FY2019-FY2021 Chief Executive Officer LTI Plan 12.4.10 Employee Share Scheme (ESS) (myShare Plan) In accordance with the Chief Executive Officer’s employment contract, the Board invited the Chief Executive Officer to participate in the FY2019-FY2021 LTI in Following the Board’s approval in September 2017, the following offers under the Employee Share Scheme (ESS) to eligible employees who are Australian the form of B Class Share rights. Tax Residents have been made: Chief Executive Officer LTI Component Employee Share Scheme (ESS) Eligibility Group Chief Executive Officer only. Instrument The plan operates by way of either an after-tax employee payroll contribution with a company matching arrangement for either $250, $500, $750 or $1,000, and /or employees having the option to salary sacrifice between $1,000 and $5,000 (in specified increments), to Instrument Equity. purchase B Class Shares from their pre-tax salary. Quantum Quantum is determined based on a maximum incentive opportunity expressed as a percentage of Total Fixed A $7,000 limit per employee applies including the company matching portion. Remuneration. The target percentage was 72.9% of the CEO’s fixed remuneration on 1 May 2018. 507,932 B Class Share rights were granted. The Board at the time, also issued 507,932 unallocated B Class Shares to the Offer September 2018 Offer September 2019 Offer Ricegrowers Employee Share Trust in anticipation of the expected B Class Share requirements at the end of the performance period, assuming 100% of the B Class Share rights will vest. Any B Class share rights that do not vest may be Grant Date 24 September 2018 16 September 2019 used for future allocations as required (the decision to apply this approach for the CEO was based on the large quantity of B Issue Price $5.82, based on the Volume Weighted Average Price of B Class $5.72, based on the Volume Weighted Average Price of B Class Class Shares that may vest at the end of the performance period, unlike the Executives and other eligible employees’ plan, where the quantum was significantly less and likely to see increased forfeiture due to employees who may terminate prior Shares traded on the NSX over the last five days on which B Class Shares traded on the ASX over the last five days on which B Class to the B Class Shares vesting). Shares were traded prior to 28 June 2018. Shares were traded prior to 3 July 2019. Due to the matching offer in the plan, no discount was applied. Due to the matching offer in the plan, no discount was applied. Performance period Three-year performance period from 1 May 2018 to 30 April 2021. B Class 136,418 B Class Shares including the following B Class Shares for 53,300 B Class Shares including the following B Class Shares for Grant date 11 January 2019. Shares KMP who elected to participate in the ESS: KMP who elected to participate in the ESS: Fair Value of B Class The fair value of the B Class Share rights at grant date was estimated by taking the market price of the Company’s B Class issued 1,201 B Class Shares issued to the Chief Executive Officer, 1,201 B 348 B Class Shares were issued to the Chief Financial Officer and Share rights granted Shares on that date ($5.70) less the present value of expected dividends that will not be received by the Chief Executive Class Shares issued to the Chief Financial Officer and 1,201 B Class 348 B Class Shares were issued to the General Manager Global Officer on his B Class Share rights during the three-year vesting period, resulting in the fair value (for accounting purposes) of Shares issued to the General Manager Global Consumer Markets. Consumer Markets. $4.83. This also included 33,337 B Class Shares issued under the This also included 20,534 B Class Shares issued under the Vesting schedule Performance is assessed over the three-year period from 1 May 2018 to 30 April 2021 and vests on 30 April 2021 (with shares matching arrangement of the plan, of which: matching arrangement of the plan, of which: issued immediately following the release of the audited financial results for the FY2021 financial year). 171 were issued to the Chief Executive Officer, 171 were issued to 174 were issued to the Chief Financial Officer and 174 were Termination The Board retains discretion to cancel any unpaid, unvested or deferred LTI in part or in full in the event an act of fraud, the Chief Financial Officer and 171 were issued to the General issued to the General Manager Global Consumer Markets. misconduct, or where there has been deliberate and material financial misstatement in the Company’s accounts. Manager Global Consumer Markets. 1,222 B Class Shares were purchased on market for the Chief B Class Share rights will be forfeited on cessation of employment unless the Board determines otherwise. Executive Officer. This included 174 B Class Shares under the company matching arrangement. Performance The Board has selected the following performance measures to ensure that the Chief Executive Officer’s remuneration is hurdles aligned with increased shareholder value and growers’ interests: • 40% Achievement of the progress on the five-year strategic plan from 2017 to 2022. 12.5 Remuneration tables • 15% Realised Adjusted Earnings Per Share (EPS) growth Post• 15% Maximise Grower Return over time to achieve budgeted price per paddy tonne employment Short term benefits benefits (4) Long term benefits • 10% Strategic Growth – measured by the refresh of the SunRice Group’s strategic direction post 2022 NonAnnual and Share-based Other Long• 20% People and Culture KPIs include culture and Executive development and succession planning Cash Salary Cash Bonus Monetary Long Service SuperPayments Term Total Paid Performance B Class Share rights will lapse if performance conditions are not met. and Fees (2) Benefits (1) Leave (3) annuation (2) Benefits (2) and Payable related Forecasted vesting Based on the current status of the performance hurdles, it is anticipated that the LTI B Class Share rights will vest at 100%. Name $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ % 0% forfeiture is anticipated at present. R Gordon 2020 1, 380, 301 1, 044, 613 9, 486 69, 156 20, 924 818, 766 3, 343, 246 56% 12.4.9 FY2022-FY2024 Chief Executive Officer LTI Plan 2019 1,329,650 659,451 9,223 16,812 21,450 818,766 2,855,352 52% With the CEO’s current LTI performance period ending on 30 April 2021 (with vesting to occur on 30 April 2021 and shares issued immediately after the release of the FY2021 audited financial results), it is imperative that the Board puts in place the next LTI Plan to retain and appropriately incentivise the CEO. D Courtelis 2020 654, 076 421, 875 9, 486 37, 722 20, 924 99, 065 1, 243, 148 42% The Company considers equity incentive plans an important tool to attract, retain and motivate talented senior executives, particularly in the current 2019 629,549 398,505 9,223 24,212 20,451 65,450 1,147,390 40% challenging environment impacted by consecutive years of drought and the global COVID-19 pandemic. In line with previous LTI Plans, the Board has invited the CEO to participate in a new three year LTI plan commencing on 1 May 2021. Under the new plan, B D Keldie Class Share rights will vest in two stages subject to service and performance criteria, to ensure continued focus and alignment with increased shareholder 2020 479, 576 312, 812 9, 486 4, 372 20, 924 75, 568 902, 738 43% value and grower’s interests, similar to the current LTI plan. 2019 470,227 222,340 9,223 8,485 20,451 52,584 766,340 36% 1. Non-monetary benefits include benefits such as car parking and fringe benefits tax. In some cases, these are at the election of the Executives (salary sacrifice). Approval for the grant of B Class Share rights to the CEO under the FY2022-FY2024 LTI plan will be sought at the 2020 B Class Shareholder Meeting to be held 2. Cash bonus, Share based payments and other long term benefits are impacted by performance. after the Ricegrowers Limited 2020 Annual General Meeting. Details of the proposed LTI plan will be included in the Notice of B Class Meeting. 3. Annual and Long Service Leave represents the change in provisions during the reporting period. 4. There were no Termination benefits to be reported on. SUNRICEANNUAL SUNRICE 2020// 67 REPORT2020 ANNUALREPORT 67 SUNRICE ANNUAL SUNRICE REPORT 2020 ANNUAL REPORT 68 2020 // 68 Directors Directors’Report Report Directors’ Report Continued Continued 12.6 Remuneration of Non-executive Directors Short term benefits Post-employment benefits Total The Board sets Non-executive Director remuneration at a level that enables the attraction and retention of Directors of the highest calibre, while incurring a Cash Salary and Fees cost that is acceptable to shareholders. Cash Salary and Fees Other Controlled Entities Superannuation Current Directors $ $ $ $ The remuneration of the Non-executive Directors is determined by the Board on recommendation from the People and Remuneration Committee within a maximum fee pool. L J A rth u r 2020 180, 547 17, 152 197, 699 Non-executive Directors receive a base fee and statutory superannuation contributions. Non-executive Directors do not receive any performance based pay. 2019 176,143 16,734 192,877 Non-executive Director (NEDs) Remuneration Fees L C at an z aro In setting remuneration, the People and Remuneration Committee undertakes an annual process to ensure: 2020 101, 022 9, 597 110, 619  Remuneration is reflective of the market and historically has taken into consideration comparator companies and peers within the FMCG, 2019 59,182 5,622 64,804 agribusiness and rural sector; and A C ran e 2020 85, 450 8, 118 93, 568  Financial interests of non-executive Directors and shareholders are aligned. 2019 48,860 4,642 53,502 Fee pool I M as o n ( 1 ) The maximum amount of fees that can be paid to Non-executive Directors is capped by a pool approved by shareholders. 2020 86, 798 3, 146 8, 246 98, 190 At the 2019 Annual General Meeting, shareholders approved the current fee pool of $1,500,000 per annum. 2019 88,625 8,419 97,044 G L Ki rk u p The total fees paid in the reporting period (including superannuation contributions in respect of Directors’ remuneration and excluding payments made by Trukai Industries Limited which are excluded from the pool) was $1,082,787 (utilising 72% of the total fee pool). 2020 92, 939 8, 829 101, 768 2019 90,672 8,614 99,286 Directors attending to the business of the Group are reimbursed for the reasonable cost of travel and reasonable out of pocket expenses. These costs are J M B rad fo rd ( 2 ) excluded from the Director Fee Pool. 2020 85, 450 10, 660 8, 118 104, 228 Directors FY2020 fee structure 2019 83,367 6,845 7,920 98,132 The Directors’ fees (excluding superannuation) for FY2020 are set out in the table below. L K Vi al Chair fee $ Member fee $ 2020 88, 851 8, 441 97, 292 2019 91,254 8,669 99,923 Board 180,547 77,367 I G l as s o n Finance, Risk and Audit Committee 16,166 8,083 2020 98, 555 9, 363 107, 918 People & Remuneration Committee 13,105 7,489 2019 96,152 9,134 105,286 Grower Services Committee 8,083 4,042 J J M o rto n ( 3 ) Safety Health and Environment Committee 8,083 4,042 2020 57, 671 4, 989 62, 660 Nomination Committee 2019 Non-executive Directors of the SunRice Group who are Directors of Trukai Industries Limited also received annual Director Fees for their roles in recognition J L Z an at t a of the additional workload associated with travel to and management of an operation based in Papua New Guinea. The Chairman is entitled to an 2020 57, 671 5, 479 63, 150 annualised fee of $10,660 (PGK 25,000) and the Member an annualised fee of $8,528 (PGK 20,000). 2019 Non-executive Director Statutory Remuneration Former Directors The table on the next page outlines the aggregate of all Directors’ fees received by a Director in respect of the SunRice Group and any of its subsidiaries (including Trukai Industries Limited) during the current and previous reporting periods. G A A n d re az z a 2020 27, 797 2, 641 30, 438 2019 87,310 8,294 95,604 DM R o berts o n ( 4 ) 2020 26, 542 3, 565 2, 521 32, 628 2019 85,609 7,492 8,133 101,234 G F L at t a A M 2020 2019 37,781 3,589 41,370 1. Pro rated Fees paid reflect time as Member of the Directors of the Trukai Industries Limited Board. 2. Fees paid as Chairman of the Directors of the Trukai Industries Limited Board for the full year. 3. JJ Morton superannuation reflects the impact of a novated vehicle. 4. DM Robertson also received a Retirement Benefit of $117,412 based on a historical Directors Retirement Benefit Scheme that was terminated following shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting held on 27 August 2010. SUNRICEANNUAL SUNRICE 2020// 69 REPORT2020 ANNUALREPORT 69 SUNRICE ANNUAL SUNRICE REPORT 2020 ANNUAL REPORT 70 2020 // 70 Directors Directors’Report Report Directors’ Report Continued Continued 12.7 Shareholdings and other mandatory disclosures Details of B Class Shares issued to Directors and their related entities pursuant to the Grower Share Purchase Plan (GSPP) Service Agreements B Class Shares The remuneration arrangements for the SunRice Chief Executive Officer and the Executives are formalised in Service Agreements, as set out below: issued pursuant Related party name Nature of relationship to GSPP Name and Role Term of Agreement Notice Periods Mr Lawrence John Arthur Chairman and Director 5,216 R Gordon, Group Chief Executive Officer Rolling contract with no fixed end date 6 months Andrew Arthur and Amy Lolicato Andrew Arthur is the son of a Director (Laurie Arthur) 819 D Courtelis, Group Chief Financial Officer Rolling contract with no fixed end date 6 months John Neil Arthur Director’s son (Laurie Arthur) 482 D Keldie, General Manager – Global Consumer Markets Rolling contract with no fixed end date 3 months Director, Director’s mother and Director’s brother (Ian DJ Mason & IR Mason & PD Mason trading as DJ Mason & Sons 1,363 Mason) North Dale Pty Ltd Director’s company (Leigh Vial) 1,613 The Chief Executive Officer’s ongoing contract was issued dated 8 September 2016 with a termination period of six months if initiated by the Chief Executive JA Zanatta & I Zanatta Director (Julian Zanatta) 5,530 Officer. The employment contract is capable of termination by the Company on 12 months’ written notice. Share holdings F o rm er Di rec to rs It is the Company's guideline that each non-executive Independent Director has control over B Class Shares in the Company that are worth at least the GA & JA Andreazza Enterprises Pty Limited (trustee of the GA Director’s company (Glen Andreazza) 2,742 equivalent of one year’s fixed remuneration. and JA Andreazza Family Trust) trading as GJA Farming Daniel Paul Andreazza Director’s son (Glen Andreazza) 318 This guideline is expected to be met over a reasonable period (approximately five years). This guideline however will be considered in line with a review of the vehicles available to Non-executive Independent Directors to purchase B Class shares in the company. Movement in B Class Share rights held during the reporting period Directors’ and other KMP interests in A and B Class Shares of the SunRice Group Details of the movement in B Class Share rights in the Company, during the reporting period for each Executive KMP are detailed below. Held at 30 April 2020 Held at 1 May 2019 A Class B Class Net change in A Class B Class Balance at the Balance at the Director Shares Shares period Shares Shares start of the end of the year Vested Forfeited year L Arthur 1 266, 861 12,199 1 254,662 Movement in B Class J Bradford 1 35, 191 1,955 1 33,236 Share Rights during Granted as Other L Catanzaro FY2020 Unvested remuneration Number % Number % Changes Unvested A Crane I Glasson 22, 400 1,245 21,155 R Gordon 507,932 507,932 R Gordon 116, 428 7,622 108,806 D Courtelis 40,730 25,660 66,390 G Kirkup 1 77, 778 4,321 1 73,457 D Keldie 43,400 11,410 24,348 99.8 52 0.2 30,410 I Mason 1 151, 489 8,416 1 143,073 Number and Value of B Class Share rights granted, vested and forfeited under the LTI awards J Morton 1 144, 348 1,276 1 143,072 L Vial 1 122, 796 3,768 1 119,028 Details of the B Class Share rights granted as remuneration and held, and vesting profile as at 30 April 2020 for each Executive KMP is presented in the table J Zanatta 1 25, 511 10,804 1 14,707 below. B Class Share rights are granted for nil consideration (i.e. zero exercise price) and vest following performance testing. Vested in FY2020 Held at 30 April 2020 Held at 1 May 2019 Financial A Class B Class Net change in A Class B Class year in Former Director Shares Shares period Shares Shares which B Maximum Current Number of B Fair value at Class Share fair value Number of G Andreazza 1 84, 525 1 84,525 Executive Class Share grant date Rights may yet to vest Vested in Forfeited in ordinary B DM Robertson 1 227, 725 1 227,725 KMP Plan Rights Grant Date ($) vest ($) the year (%) the year (%) Class Shares R Gordon FY19 507,932 11-Jan-19 4.83 FY21 817,771 2020 B Class 2019 B Class Other Key Management Personnel Shares Shares D Courtelis FY19 40,730 1-Oct-18 6.33 FY21 128,910 FY20 25,660 1-Aug-19 3.93 FY22 67,229 D Keldie 21, 189 19,845 D Keldie FY18 24,400 16-Mar-18 3.15 FY20 99.8 0.2 24,348 D Courtelis 3, 552 3,026 FY19 19,000 1-Oct-18 6.33 FY21 60,135 FY20 11,410 1-Aug-19 3.93 FY22 29,894 The aggregate number of B Class Shares held by current Directors (including those having retired during the current reporting period) of the SunRice Group, their related entities and other Key Management Personnel at balance date was: Issuing entity 2020 2019 Ricegrowers Limited 1, 299, 793 1,246,317 SUNRICEANNUAL SUNRICE REPORT2020 ANNUALREPORT 71 2020// 71 SUNRICE ANNUAL SUNRICE REPORT 2020 ANNUAL REPORT 72 2020 // 72 Directors Directors’Report Report Directors’ Report Continued Continued Transactions with Directors and other Key Management Personnel 13. Insurance of officers and indemnities 2020 2019 During the year, Directors and Executive Officers of Ricegrowers Limited were insured as part of an insurance policy undertaken against a liability of a nature $ $ that is required to be disclosed under the Corporations Act 2001. Purchases of rice from Directors 1 ,3 7 4 ,5 5 5 728,012 In accordance with the Corporations Act 2001, further details have not been disclosed due to confidentiality provisions included in the insurance contract. Sale of inputs to Directors 1 9 ,9 4 0 13,117 Sale of stockfeed to Directors 66,233 14. Proceedings on behalf of the company Fees paid to Directors for participation on Irrigated Research and Extension Committee 1 0 ,4 9 9 No person has applied to the Court under section 237 of the Corporations Act 2001 for leave to bring proceedings on behalf of the company, or to intervene Consulting fees paid to Directors prior to their appointment 48,794 in any proceedings to which the company is a party, for the purpose of taking responsibility on behalf of the company for all or part of those proceedings. T o t a l t r a n s a ct i o n s wi t h D i r ect o r s a n d o t h er K ey M a n a g em en t P er s o n n el 1,404,994 856,156 No proceedings have been brought or intervened in on behalf of the company with leave of the Court under section 237 of the Corporations Act 2001. There were no transactions or loans provided to other KMP or their related parties as at the date of this report. 15. Non-audit services Purchases of rice from Directors were made on identical terms to purchases of rice from other growers. The company may decide to employ the auditor on assignments additional to their statutory audit duties where the auditor’s expertise and experience with 12.8 Voting and comments made at Ricegrowers Limited’s Annual General Meeting the company and/or the group are important. It t is noted that at the 2019 AGM held on 22 August 2019, of the votes cast, the Company received 80.33% ‘for’ vote on the Remuneration Report. Details of the amounts paid or payable to the auditor (PwC Australia) for audit and non-audit services provided during the financial year are set out in note Consequently, no additional disclosures have been triggered. 6c to the financial statements. The board of directors has considered the position and, in accordance with advice received from the Finance, Risk and Audit committee, is satisfied that the provision of the non-audit services is compatible with the general standard of independence for auditors imposed by the Corporations Act 2001. The directors are satisfied that the provision of non-audit services by the auditor, as set out in note 6c to the financial statements, did not compromise the auditor independence requirements of the Corporations Act 2001 for the following reasons: all non-audit services have been reviewed by the Finance, Risk and Audit committee to ensure they do not impact the impartiality and objectivity of the auditor none of the services undermine the general principles relating to auditor independence as set out in APES 110 Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants. 16. Auditor’s independence declaration A copy of the auditor’s independence declaration as required under section 307C of the Corporations Act 2001 is set out on page 75. 17. Rounding of amounts The company is of a kind referred to in ASIC Legislative Instrument 2016/191, relating to the ‘rounding off’ of amounts in the Directors’ report. Amounts in the Directors’ report have been rounded off in accordance with the instrument to the nearest thousand dollars, or in certain cases, to the nearest dollar. This report is made in accordance with a resolution of the Directors. For and on behalf of the Board. L Arthur R Gordon Chairman Director 25 June 2020 SUNRICEANNUAL SUNRICE 2020// 73 REPORT2020 ANNUALREPORT 73 SUNRICE ANNUAL SUNRICE REPORT 2020 ANNUAL REPORT 74 2020 // 74 Auditor’s Independence Financial Report Financial Report Declaration The following financial statements are consolidated financial statements for the Group consisting of Ricegrowers Limited and its subsidiaries. A list of subsidiaries is included in note 5a. The financial statements are presented in the Australian currency. Ricegrowers Limited is a company limited by shares, incorporated and domiciled in Australia. Its registered office and principal place of business is: Ricegrowers Limited 57 Yanco Avenue LEETON NSW 2705 Ricegrowers limited has a dual class share structure, with B Class Shares being able to be held by investors generally and A Class Shares being limited to Active Growers. Details of this structure are available in the Shareholder Information section of this Annual Report. Auditor’s Independence Declaration B Class Shares of Ricegrowers Limited are publicly traded on the Australian Securities Exchange (ASX) – code SGLLV. As lead auditor for the audit of Ricegrowers Limited for the year ended 30 April 2020, I declare that to A description of the nature of the Group’s operations and its principal activities is included within the directors’ report , which is not part of the financial the best of my knowledge and belief, there have been: statements. The financial statements were authorised for issue by the directors on 25 June 2020. (a) no contraventions of the auditor independence requirements of the Corporations Act 2001 in The directors have the power to amend and reissue the financial statements. relation to the audit; and All press releases, financial reports and other information are available at our Investors’ Centre on our website: https://investors.sunrice.com.au/Investors (b) no contraventions of any applicable code of professional conduct in relation to the audit. This declaration is in respect of Ricegrowers Limited and the entities it controlled during the period. Mark Dow Sydney Partner 25 June 2020 PricewaterhouseCoopers PricewaterhouseCoopers, ABN 52 780 433 757 One International Towers Sydney, Watermans Quay, Barangaroo, GPO BOX 2650, SYDNEY NSW 2001 T: +61 2 8266 0000, F: +61 2 8266 9999, www.pwc.com.au Level 11, 1PSQ, 169 Macquarie Street, Parramatta NSW 2150, PO Box 1155 Parramatta NSW 2124 T: +61 2 9659 2476, F: +61 2 8266 9999, www.pwc.com.au Liability limited by a scheme approved under Professional Standards Legislation. SUNRICE ANNUAL REPORT 2020 / 75 SUNRICE ANNUAL SUNRICE REPORT 2020 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 // 76 76 Consolidated Statement Statement Consolidated Balance Balance of Comprehensive Income Sheet For the year ended 30 April 2020 As at 30 April 2020 2020 2019 2020 2019 Note $000's $000's Note $000's $000's Sales revenue 2b 1 ,1 3 0 ,6 2 9 1,189,545 C u r r en t a s s et s Other revenue 2b 4 ,189 3,518 Cash and cash equivalents 4b 3 9,837 22,441 R ev en u e f r o m c o n t i n u i n g o per a t i o n s 1 ,1 3 4 ,8 1 8 1,193,063 Receivables 3a 196,986 168,251 Other income 2c 191 1,750 Inventories 3b 277,338 361,392 Changes in inventories of finished goods 591 12,658 Current tax receivable 699 1,981 Raw materials and consumables used (7 0 6 ,9 7 6 ) (736,296) Derivative financial instruments 3i 1,123 1,370 Freight and distribution expenses (1 0 6 ,3 0 3 ) (110,182) T o t a l cu r r en t a s s et s 515,983 555,435 Employee benefits expenses (1 4 2 ,9 9 0 ) (143,506) N o n cu r r en t a s s et s Depreciation and amortisation expenses (2 7 ,6 2 0 ) (21,681) Other financial assets 37 37 Finance costs (6 ,6 6 2 ) (8,805) Property, plant and equipment 3f 264,393 239,677 Other expenses 2d (1 1 3 ,9 3 9 ) (139,858) Investment properties 3g 2,900 2,900 Share of net profit / (loss) of associate accounted for using the equity method 1,268 Intangibles 3h 14,449 14,145 P r o f i t bef o r e i n c o m e t a x 3 1 ,1 1 0 48,411 Deferred tax assets 2f 17,566 14,872 Income tax expense 2f (8 ,4 3 0 ) (15,644) Investments accounted for using the equity method 5b 2,978 2,821 P r o f i t f o r t h e y ea r 2 2 ,6 8 0 32,767 T o t a l n o n cu r r en t a s s et s 302,323 274,452 I t em s t h a t m a y be r ec l a s s i f i ed t o pr o f i t o r l o s s T o t a l a s s et s 818,306 829,887 Changes in fair value of cash flow hedges 4f (6 3 4 ) 1,492 Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 4f 8 ,868 5,158 C u r r en t l i a bi l i t i es Income tax relating to items of other comprehensive income 4f 261 (377) Payables 3c 1 59,925 134,064 O t h er c o m pr eh en s i v e i n c o m e f o r t h e y ea r , n et o f t a x 8,495 6,273 Amounts payable to Riverina Rice Growers 3c 18,423 66,220 T o t a l c o m pr eh en s i v e i n c o m e f o r t h e y ea r 3 1 ,1 7 5 39,040 Borrowings 4d 63,637 39,465 Current tax liabilities 5,141 5,719 Provisions 3d 23,303 22,507 P r o f i t f o r t h e y ea r i s a t t r i bu t a bl e t o : Derivative financial instruments 3i 1,702 899 Ricegrowers Limited shareholders 2 7 ,0 1 3 31,498 T o t a l c u r r en t l i a bi l i t i es 272,131 268,874 Non-controlling interests (4 ,3 3 3 ) 1,269 22,680 32,767 N o n c u r r en t l i a bi l i t i es Payables 3c 1 ,830 1,707 T o t a l c o m pr eh en s i v e i n c o m e f o r t h e y ea r i s a t t r i bu t a bl e t o : Borrowings 4d 58,801 92,529 Ricegrowers Limited shareholders 3 4,255 37,031 Provisions 3d 4,185 3,873 Non-controlling interests (3 ,0 8 0 ) 2,009 T o t a l n o n c u r r en t l i a bi l i t i es 64,816 98,109 31,175 39,040 T o t a l l i a bi l i t i es 336,947 366,983 N et a s s et s 481,359 462,904 E a r n i n g s per s h a r e f o r pr o f i t a t t r i bu t a bl e t o B C l a s s S h a r eh o l der s Basic and diluted earnings (cents per B Class Share) 2e 45.8 54.5 E qu i t y Contributed equity 4e 1 28,440 122,852 Reserves 4f 16,101 7,355 Retained profits 4f 313,844 306,643 C a pi t a l & r es o u r c es a t t r i bu t a bl e t o R i c eg r o w er s L i m i t ed s h a r eh o l der s 458,385 436,850 Non-controlling interests 22,974 26,054 T o t a l equ i t y 481,359 462,904 The above Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes. The above Consolidated Balance Sheet should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes. SUNRICE SUNRICE ANNUAL ANNUAL REPORT REPORT 2020 2020 // 77 77 SUNRICE ANNUAL SUNRICE REPORT 2020 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 // 78 78 Consolidated Statement Statement Consolidated Cash Cash of Changes In Equity Equity Flow Statement For the year ended 30 April 2020 For the year ended 30 April 2020 Attributable to Ricegrowers Limited shareholders 2020 2019 NonNote $000's $000's Contributed Retained controlling Total equity Reserves Profits Total interests Equity C a s h f l o w s f r o m o per a t i n g a c t i v i t i es Note $000's $000's $000's $000's $000's $000's Receipts from customers (inclusive of goods and services tax) 1,140,584 1,219,830 Payments to suppliers (inclusive of goods and services tax) (8 2 4 ,8 1 3 ) (805,844) B a l a nce a s a t 1 M a y 2018 1 1 1 ,8 5 5 3 ,9 7 8 2 9 3 ,9 2 5 4 0 9 ,7 5 8 2 4 ,3 7 5 4 3 4 ,1 3 3 Payments to Riverina Rice Growers (6 8 ,8 2 1 ) (266,784) Payments of wages, salaries and on-costs (1 4 0 ,3 3 4 ) (142,709) Profit for the year 31,498 31,498 1,269 32,767 Interest received 295 421 Other comprehensive income 5,533 5,533 740 6,273 Interest paid (6 ,7 8 0 ) (8,627) Total comprehensive income for the year 5,533 31,498 37,031 2,009 39,040 Income taxes paid (1 0 ,5 9 8 ) (5,392) N et c a s h i n f l o w / (o u t f l o w ) f r o m o per a t i n g a c t i v i t i es 4c 8 9,533 (9,105) Transactions with owners in their capacity as owners: Contribution of equity, net of transaction costs 4e 7,455 7,455 7,455 C a s h f l o ws f r o m i n v es t i n g a ct i v i t i es Share-based payments issue of shares to employees 4f 586 (586) Payments for property, plant and equipment and intangible assets (3 1 ,2 9 4 ) (40,809) Share-based payments value of employee services 4f 1,273 1,273 1,273 Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 604 123 Issue of treasury shares 4f 2,956 (2,956) Payment for acquisition of business 5f (5,855) Allocation of treasury shares to employees 4f 113 113 113 N et ca s h o u t f l o w f r o m i n v es t i n g a ct i v i t i es (3 0 ,6 9 0 ) (46,541) Dividends distributed 4a (18,780) (18,780) (330) (19,110) 10,997 (2,156) (18,780) (9,939) (330) (10,269) C a s h f l o ws f r o m f i n a n ci n g a ct i v i t i es Proceeds from borrowings 5 30,579 356,680 B a l a n c e a s a t 3 0 A pr i l 2 0 1 9 122,852 7,355 306,643 436,850 26,054 462,904 Repayment of borrowings (5 5 1 ,6 0 4 ) (402,450) Principal element of lease (2019 – finance lease) payments (3 ,0 6 4 ) (188) Change in accounting policy 1 (6 0 0 ) (6 0 0 ) (6 0 0 ) Proceeds from issue of shares 686 R es t a t ed ba l a n c e a s a t 1 M a y 2 0 1 9 122,852 7,355 306,043 436,250 26,054 462,304 Dividends paid to Non Controlling Interests (330) Dividends paid to the company's B Class shareholders (1 3 ,9 3 2 ) (13,357) Profit for the year 27,013 27,013 (4 ,3 3 3 ) 22,680 N et ca s h o u t f l o w f r o m f i n a n ci n g a ct i v i t i es (3 8 ,0 2 1 ) (58,959) Other comprehensive income 7,242 7,242 1,253 8,495 Total comprehensive income for the year 7,242 27,013 34,255 (3 ,0 8 0 ) 31,175 N et i n c r ea s e / (dec r ea s e) i n c a s h a n d c a s h eq u i v a l en t s 20,822 (114,605) Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the financial year 10,440 122,902 Transactions with owners in their capacity as owners: Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 252 2,143 Contribution of equity, net of transaction costs 4e 5 ,4 7 1 5 ,4 7 1 5 ,4 7 1 C a s h a n d ca s h equ i v a l en t s a t t h e en d o f t h e f i n a n ci a l y ea r 4b 31,514 10,440 Share-based payments issue of shares to employees 4f 117 (1 1 7 ) Share-based payments value of employee services 4f 1,621 1,621 1,621 Dividends distributed 4a (1 9 ,2 1 2 ) (1 9 ,2 1 2 ) (1 9 ,2 1 2 ) 5,588 1,504 (1 9 ,2 1 2 ) (1 2 ,1 2 0 ) (1 2 ,1 2 0 ) B a l a n c e a s a t 3 0 A pr i l 2 0 2 0 1 2 8 ,4 4 0 1 6 ,1 0 1 3 1 3 ,8 4 4 4 5 8 ,3 8 5 2 2 ,9 7 4 4 8 1 ,3 5 9 The above Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes. The above Consolidated Cash Flow Statement should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes. SUNRICE SUNRICE ANNUAL ANNUAL REPORT REPORT 2020 2020 // 7979 SUNRICE ANNUAL SUNRICE REPORT 2020 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 // 80 80 Notes to the Financial Financial Notes to the Financial Statements Continued Statements For the year ended 30 April 2020 1 Basis of preparation 82 1. Basis of preparation 2 Group performance 86 Ricegrowers Limited (the Company) is a for-profit entity for the purpose of preparing financial statements. a. Operating segments 86 The consolidated financial statements of the Company for the year ended 30 April 2020 comprise the Company and its subsidiaries (together referred to as the Group). b. Revenue 89 Amounts in the financial statements have been rounded off to the nearest thousand dollar, or in certain cases, to the nearest dollar, in accordance with ASIC c. Other income 89 Corporations (Rounding in Financial/Director’s Report) Instrument 2016/191. d. Expenses 90 The general purpose financial statements included in this consolidated financial report: e. Earnings per B Class Share 90 • have been prepared in accordance with Australian Accounting Standards and Interpretations issued by the Australian Accounting Standards Board f. Income taxes 91 and the Corporations Act 2001; 3 Operating assets and liabilities 95 • comply with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB); and a. Receivables 95 • have been prepared on a historical cost basis, except for certain financial assets and liabilities (including derivative instruments) and investment property, which are measured at fair value. b. Inventories 96 There are no new standards that are not yet effective and that are expected to have a material impact on the Group in the current or future reporting periods c. Payables and amounts payable to Riverina Rice Growers 97 and on foreseeable future transactions. d. Provisions 97 Significant accounting policies have been: e. Employee benefits 98 • included in the relevant note to which each policy relates, other than the accounting policy for foreign currency, set out below; and f. Property, plant and equipment 99 • except for the adoption of AASB 16 – Leases, noted on the next page, consistently applied to all periods presented in these financial statements. g. Investment property 100 h. Intangibles 101 Judgements, estimates and assumptions i. Derivative financial instruments 102 The preparation of financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions. This may affect the application of accounting policies and reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses. Actual results may differ from these estimates. 4 Capital and financial risk management 104 Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the a. Capital risk management 104 estimate is revised and in any future periods affected. b. Cash and cash equivalents 105 Information about significant areas of estimation, uncertainty and critical judgements in applying accounting policies that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the consolidated financial statements are described in the following notes: c. Cash flow information and net debt reconciliation 105 • Note 2f: Income taxes – Deferred tax assets not recognised for capital and ordinary losses available for future use d. Borrowings 106 • Note 3a: Receivables – determination of loss allowances e. Share capital 108 • Note 3b and 3c: Inventories and amounts payable to Riverina Rice growers – Estimation of raw materials inventory and amounts payable to f. Reserves and retained profits 109 Riverina rice growers g. Financial risk management 111 • Note 3f and 3h: Property, plant and equipment and intangibles – Impairment of non-current assets (including goodwill) h. Fair value measurements 115 • Note 3d and 4j: Provisions and contingent liabilities – recognition and measurement of provisions and contingent liabilities i. Commitments 115 In addition, the known and potential impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic in the near future have been taken into consideration when determining significant estimates and judgements. Further details about the Group’s response to this event are available in the Our Financial Performance and Position section of j. Contingent liabilities 116 this Annual Report on pages 17 and 18. 5 Group structure 117 Foreign currency a. Investments in subsidiaries 117 Functional and presentation currency b. Investments accounted for using the equity method 118 Items included in the financial statements of each of the Group’s entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which c. Deed of cross guarantee 119 the entity operates (the functional currency). The consolidated financial statements are presented in Australian dollar ($), which is Ricegrowers Limited’s functional and presentation currency. d. Parent entity information 121 Transactions e. Subsidiaries with material non-controlling interests 122 Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates at the dates of the transactions. Foreign exchange gains f. Business combination 123 and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at year end exchange rates are generally recognised in profit or loss. They are deferred in equity if they relate to qualifying cash flow hedges or are 6 Other disclosures and events occurring after the reporting period 124 attributable to part of the net investment in a foreign operation. a. Related party transactions 124 Foreign exchange gains and losses that relate to borrowings are presented in the consolidated income statement within finance costs. All other foreign exchange gains and losses are presented in the consolidated income statement on a net basis within other income or other expenses. b. Share-based payments 124 Non-monetary items that are measured at fair value in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates at the date when the fair value was c. Remuneration of auditors 126 determined. Translation differences on assets and liabilities carried at fair value are reported as part of the fair value gain or loss. SUNRICE SUNRICE ANNUAL ANNUAL REPORT REPORT 2020 2020 // 81 81 SUNRICE ANNUAL SUNRICE REPORT 2020 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 // 82 82 Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements Continued Continued Group companies The change in accounting policy affected the following items in the balance sheet on 1 May 2019: The results and financial position of foreign operations (none of which has the currency of a hyperinflationary economy) that have a functional currency Increase / Amount different from the presentation currency are translated into the presentation currency as follows: Decrease $000's • assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are translated at the closing rate at the date of that balance sheet Right-of-use assets (included in property, plant and equipment) Increase 15,744 • income and expenses for each income statement are translated at average exchange rates (unless this is not a reasonable approximation of the effect Net deferred tax assets Increase 253 of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are translated at the dates of the transactions), and Lease liabilities (included in borrowings) Increase 16,257 Payables Increase 340 • all resulting exchange differences are recognised in other comprehensive income and presented in a foreign currency translation reserve. Retained profits Decrease 600 On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of any net investment in foreign entities, and of borrowings and other financial instruments designated as hedges of such investments, are recognised in other comprehensive income. When a foreign operation is sold or any borrowings Profit before income tax for the year ended 30 April 2020 decreased and assets and liabilities at 30 April 2020 increased as a result of the change in forming part of the net investment are repaid, the associated exchange differences are reclassified to profit or loss, as part of the gain or loss on sale. accounting policy. These impacts, as they relate to the Group’s segments, have been disclosed in note 2a. Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign operation are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign operation and Amounts relating to leases recognised in the Consolidated Balance Sheet translated at the closing rate. 30 Apr 2020 1 May 2019 Notes $000's $000's Changes in significant accounting policies R i g h t o f u s e a s s et s (i n c l u ded i n pr o per t y , pl a n t a n d eq u i pm en t ) The Group has applied all of the new and revised Standards and Interpretations issued by the Australian Accounting Standards Board that are relevant to Land & Buildings 3f 1 2 ,3 4 1 12,998 the Group’s operations and effective for the current reporting period. Plant & Equipment 3f 3 ,1 1 6 3,913 The Group had to change its accounting policies as a result of adopting AASB 16 – Leases. The Group elected to adopt the new rules retrospectively but 15,457 16,911 recognised the cumulative effect of initially applying the new standard on 1 May 2019. This is disclosed below. 30 Apr 2020 1 May 2019 The application of all other new and revised Standards and Interpretations has not had any material impact on the Group’s assets, profits or earnings per B Notes $000's $000's Class Share for the year ended 30 April 2020. L ea s e l i a bi l i t i es (i n c l u ded i n bo r r o w i n g s ) Adoption of AASB 16 – Leases (effective from 1 May 2019 as a replacement for AASB 117 – Leases) Current 4d 3 ,6 5 3 4,099 This note explains the impact of the adoption of AASB 16 – Leases on the Group’s financial statements. Non-current 4d 1 2 ,8 0 6 13,352 16,459 17,451 The Group has adopted AASB 16 applying a modified retrospective approach from 1 May 2019, but has not restated comparatives for the previous reporting period, as permitted under the specific transitional provisions in the standard. Amounts relating to leases recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income Amounts recognised on adoption of AASB 16 2020 2019 In the previous reporting period, the Group only recognised lease assets and lease liabilities in relation to leases that were classified as ‘finance leases’ under Notes $000's $000's AASB 117 – Leases. The assets were presented in property, plant and equipment and the liabilities as part of the group’s borrowings. D epr ec i a t i o n c h a r g e o f r i g h t o f u s e a s s et s (2 0 1 9 f i n a n c e l ea s es ) On adoption of AASB 16, the Group recognised additional lease liabilities in relation to leases which had previously been classified as ‘operating leases’ Land & Buildings 2 ,1 7 6 under the principles of AASB 117 – Leases. Plant & Equipment 2 ,1 7 3 591 These liabilities were measured at the present value of the remaining lease payments, discounted using the Group’s incremental borrowing rate as of 1 May 4,349 591 2019. The weighted average incremental borrowing rate applied to the lease liabilities on 1 May 2019 was 3.0%. 2020 2019 $000's Notes $000's $000's O per a t i n g l ea s e c o m m i t m en t s di s c l o s ed a s a t 3 0 A pr i l 2 0 1 9 19,338 O t h er ex pen s e i t em s Discounted using the Group’s incremental borrowing rate at the date of initial application (1,003) Interest expense on lease liabilities (included in finance costs) 523 110 Add: finance lease liabilities recognised as at 30 April 2019 1,194 Expense relating to short-term leases (included in equipment hire and other (Less): short-term leases recognised on a straight-line basis as expense (1,577) rental expense) 2d 3,336 (Less): low-value leases recognised on a straight-line basis as expense (23) Expense relating to leases of low-value assets that are not shown above as shortterm leases (included in equipment hire and other rental expense) 2d 111 (Less): contracts reassessed as service agreements (7,670) Add: adjustments as a result of a different treatment of extension and termination options 7,192 Amounts relating to leases recognised in the consolidated Cash Flow Statement L ea s e l i a bi l i t i es r ec o g n i s ed a s a t 1 M a y 2 0 1 9 (i n c l u ded i n bo r r o w i n g s ) 17,451 The total cash outflow for leases in cash flows from financing activities during the year was $3,064,000 (2019: $188,000). Of which are: Practical expedients applied Current lease liabilities 4,099 In applying AASB 16 for the first time, the Group has used the following practical expedients permitted by the standard: Non-current lease liabilities 13,352 • the use of a single discount rate to a portfolio of leases with reasonably similar characteristics 1 7,451 • the accounting for operating leases with a remaining lease term of less than 12 months as at 1 May 2019 as short term leases The associated right-of-use assets for Land & Buildings leases were measured on a retrospective basis as if the new rules had always been applied. • the exclusion of initial direct costs for the measurement of the right-of-use asset at the date of initial application, and The associated right-of-use assets for Plant & Equipment leases were measured at the amount equal to the lease liability, adjusted by the amount of any prepaid or accrued lease payments relating to that lease recognised in the balance sheet as at 30 April 2019. • the use of hindsight in determining the lease term where the contract contains options to extend or terminate the lease. The Group’s leasing activities and how these are accounted for The Group leases various offices, warehouses, equipment and motor vehicles. Rental contracts are typically made for fixed periods of 3 to 7 years but may have extension options as described in (i) on the next page. SUNRICE SUNRICE ANNUAL ANNUAL REPORT REPORT 2020 2020 // 83 83 SUNRICE ANNUAL SUNRICE REPORT 2020 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 // 84 84 Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements Continued Continued Contracts may contain both lease and non-lease components. The Group allocates the consideration in the contract to the lease and non-lease 2. Group Performance components based on their relative stand-alone prices. However, for leases of real estate for which the Group is a lessee, it has elected not to separate lease This section explains the results and performance of the Group for the year, including segment information, earnings per B Class Share and taxation. and non-lease components and instead accounts for these as a single lease component. Lease terms are negotiated on an individual basis and contain a wide range of different terms and conditions. The lease agreements do not impose any covenants other than the security interests in the leased assets that The Corporate Management Team evaluates results based on contributed NPBT, which is defined as net profit before tax and intersegment eliminations. are held by the lessor, but leased assets may not be used as security for borrowing purposes. Further information and analysis of performance is available in the Our Financial Performance and Position section of this Annual Report on pages 17 to 25. Until the 2019 financial year, leases of property, plant and equipment were classified as either finance or operating leases. Payments made under operating 2a. Operating segments leases (net of any incentives received from the lessor) were charged to profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease. From 1 May 2019, Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision maker. The chief operating leases are recognised as a right-of-use asset and a corresponding liability at the date at which the leased asset is available for use by the Group. Each lease decision maker, who is responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance of the operating segments, has been identified as the Corporate payment is allocated between the liability and finance cost. The finance cost is charged to profit or loss over the lease period so as to produce a constant Management Team. periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability for each period. The right-of-use asset is depreciated over the shorter of the asset's useful life and the lease term on a straight-line basis. If the Group is reasonably certain to exercise a purchase option, the right-of-use asset is depreciated over the The Corporate Management Team examines the Group’s financial performance from a product and service perspective under 6 reportable segments of its underlying asset’s useful life. business. In aggregating operating segments into reportable segments, the Group has considered the requirements of the accounting standards and notably the existence of similarities in economic characteristics, nature of products, market and customers. Assets and liabilities arising from a lease are initially measured on a present value basis. Lease liabilities include the net present value of the following lease payments: Rice Pool The receival, milling, marketing and distribution of Riverina rice, directly to customers across many channels. This includes supplying Australian markets and • fixed payments (including in-substance fixed payments), less any lease incentives receivable; exporting Riverina rice to global markets across the Middle East, Asia Pacific, the U.S and Europe. The Rice Pool also supplies the Group’s global subsidiaries, • variable lease payments that are based on an index or a rate; and, which can purchase rice from the Rice Pool at commercial prices to sell in their local markets, depending on availability. • payments of penalties for terminating the lease, if the lease term reflects the Group exercising that option. The Rice Pool is only available to Growers and A Class Shareholders. The net proceeds from the Rice Pool are not available to the Group’s B Class Lease payments to be made under reasonably certain extension options are also included in the measurement of the liability. The lease payments are Shareholders. discounted using an incremental borrowing rate, being the rate that the respective subsidiary of the Group would have to pay to borrow the funds necessary International Rice to obtain an asset of similar value in a similar economic environment with similar terms and conditions. The purchasing (whether from international sources primarily the U.S or Asia or the Rice Pool segment), processing, manufacturing, marketing and distribution of bulk or branded rice through intermediaries to consumers, food service and processing customers in world markets (including tender Right-of-use assets are measured at cost comprising the following: markets) and the Australian market where the varieties cannot be grown in Australia, including during times of low water availability. • the amount of the initial measurement of the lease liability; International Rice is an aggregation of the main following operating segments: • any lease payments made at or before the commencement date less any lease incentives received; and, • Global Rice and Ricegrowers Singapore, the global trading arms of the Group, sourcing and selling bulk or branded rice products in Australia or • restoration costs. overseas and in tender markets. Payments associated with short-term leases and leases of low-value assets are recognised on a straight-line basis as an expense in profit or loss. Short-term • Trukai, SolRice, SunFoods, Ricegrowers Vietnam, Ricegrowers New Zealand and Ricegrowers Middle East, which are separate legal entities that leases are leases with a lease term of 12 months or less. Low-value assets comprise IT-equipment. distribute rice either in their respective local markets or internationally. SunFoods, Ricegrowers Vietnam and Trukai also mill locally sourced rice. (i) Extension and termination options The nature of products manufactured, the distribution process and the type of customers are comparable between these segments. The economic Extension and termination options are included in a number of Land & Buildings leases across the Group. These terms are used to maximise operational characteristics of the larger operating segments, measured by their gross margin, is also largely comparable when considering past and expected flexibility in terms of managing contracts. The majority of extension and termination options held are exercisable only by the Group and not by the performance. respective lessor. International rice also includes Aqaba Processing Company (a packing facility in Jordan), the Group's research and development Company (RRAPL) and the (ii) Judgements in determining the lease term Brandon business in North Queensland. These operating segments present different performance profiles, but it is the Group's assessment that this does In determining the lease term, management considers all facts and circumstances that create an economic incentive to exercise an extension option, or not not materially impact the aggregated reportable segment due to the small contribution of these operating segments to International Rice. exercise a termination option. Extension options (or periods after termination options) are only included in the lease term if the lease is reasonably certain to be extended (or not terminated). For leases of Land & Buildings, the following factors are normally the most relevant: Rice Food The manufacturing, marketing and distribution of value-added rice-based products, including snacks, ingredients and pre-prepared meals, both in • If there are significant penalties to terminate (or not extend), the Group is typically reasonably certain to extend (or not terminate). domestic and global markets. • If any leasehold improvements are expected to have a significant remaining value, the Group is typically reasonably certain to extend (or not This reportable segment is an aggregation of the Rice Cakes, Rice Flour, Rice Chips, Microwave Rice and Microwave Meals operating segments. These terminate). operating segments have similar economic characteristics, including their gross margin. • Otherwise, the Group considers other factors including historical lease durations and the cost and business disruption required to replace the leased Riviana Foods (Riviana) asset. The distribution and sale of both imported and locally manufactured specialty gourmet and entertainment food products to retail and food service The lease term is reassessed if an option is actually exercised (or not exercised) or the Group becomes obliged to exercise (or not exercise) it. The assessment customers in Australia and select export markets. of reasonable certainty is only revised if a significant event or a significant change in circumstances occurs, which affects this assessment, and that is within CopRice the control of the Group. The manufacture, distribution and sale of bulk stockfeed to primary producers and branded packaged stockfeed and companion animal feed products During the current financial year, the financial effect of revising lease terms to reflect the effect of exercising extension and termination options was an through retail and wholesale channels to customers across Australia and select export markets. increase in recognised lease liabilities and right-of-use assets of $853,000. Potential future cash outflows of $1,098,000 have not been included in the lease Corporate liability because it is not reasonably certain that the leases will be extended (or not terminated). The Corporate segment captures the income and cost of holding and financing assets (property, plant and equipment and brands) that it owns and are Judgements in determining whether a contract contains a lease using the new definition in AASB 16 utilised by both the Rice Pool and the other segments. This includes intersegment charges for the use of SunRice brands and access to milling, packing, storage and warehousing assets. In determining whether a contract contains a lease under AASB 16, management has reviewed existing contracts and applied judgement based on the new standard. The right to control and the right of use of the asset for the period of the lease has been assessed by applying significant judgements on some of It also captures income and costs that are not allocated to other business segments, such as legal fees and costs associated with other corporate activity. the following areas: From time to time, the Corporate segment receives dividends from the Group’s subsidiaries. Because these transactions (which can be material and distort • determining as a lessee, whether there is reasonable certainty to extend or terminate a contract; the segment’s contributed NPBT) are eliminated in consolidation (but would represent an intersegment elimination), the reported contributed NPBT for the Corporate segment is presented after dividend elimination, in order to provide a more representative view of the underlying activities of this segment. • assessing the economic incentives that are exclusive to the Group from the contract; and AGS is aggregated into the Corporate segment. • evaluating whether a contract contains substantive service elements. SUNRICE SUNRICE ANNUAL ANNUAL REPORT REPORT 2020 2020 // 85 85 SUNRICE ANNUAL SUNRICE REPORT 2020 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 // 86 86 Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements Continued Continued Recognition and measurement The following table sets forth the segment results for the year ended 30 April 2019. Sales between segments are eliminated on consolidation. International Rice Pool Rice Rice Food Riviana CopRice Corporate Total The revenue from external customers, assets and liabilities are measured in a manner consistent with that of the financial statements. 2019 $000's $000's $000's $000's $000's $000's $000's Revenue from external customers is entirely recognised at a point in time. Total segment revenue 410,482 482,613 100,439 126,628 159,195 36,215 1,315,572 Australian cash and borrowing balances are not allocated to operating segments, as the treasury and financing of Australian operations is centrally managed. This creates an asymmetry in information because fixed assets and working capital that are financed by borrowings are allocated to Inter-segment revenue (84,556) (196) (658) (4,573) (36,044) (126,027) each operating segment. R ev en u e f r o m ex t er n a l cu s t o m er s 325,926 482,417 99,781 126,628 154,622 171 1,189,545 Other revenue 3,518 Current and deferred tax balances are also not allocated to the operating segment's assets and liabilities. T o t a l r ev en u e f r o m c o n t i n u i n g o per a t i o n s 1,193,063 Items of property, plant and equipment are allocated to the segment that owns the assets as opposed to the segment that uses those assets. As a result, items of property, plant and equipment used by the Rice Pool segment are allocated to the Corporate segment. Contributed Net Profit Before Tax 1,975 4,602 8,749 8,500 25,566 49,392 Intersegment eliminations (981) P r o f i t bef o r e i n c o m e t a x 48,411 The following table sets forth the segment results for the year ended 30 April 2020. International Depreciation and amortisation (5,170) (1,838) (434) (1,460) (12,779) (21,681) Rice Pool Rice Rice Food Riviana CopRice Corporate Total Impairment (123) (165) (288) 2020 $000's $000's $000's $000's $000's $000's $000's Acquisitions of non-current assets* 20,482 924 6,152 5,833 14,011 47,402 Total segment revenue 2 6 5 ,8 7 1 5 3 1 ,6 0 7 1 0 2 ,7 9 2 1 3 6 ,5 7 7 1 4 4 ,8 9 9 1 6 ,0 9 5 1 ,1 9 7 ,8 4 1 Segment assets 252,779 275,628 40,391 66,770 65,951 221,280 922,799 Inter-segment revenue (4 2 ,7 2 0 ) (1 7 3 ) (3 ,2 2 9 ) (4 ,9 9 5 ) (1 6 ,0 9 5 ) (6 7 ,2 1 2 ) Intersegment eliminations (119,891) R ev en u e f r o m ex t er n a l cu s t o m er s 223,151 531,434 99,563 136,577 139,904 1,130,629 Cash and cash equivalents 10,126 Other revenue 4,189 Current tax asset 1,981 T o t a l r ev en u e f r o m c o n t i n u i n g o per a t i o n s 1 ,1 3 4 ,8 1 8 Deferred tax assets 14,872 Contributed Net Profit Before Tax (4 ,0 7 2 ) (1 ,3 6 5 ) 4 ,6 2 6 8 ,0 5 5 3 ,5 9 4 1 8 ,3 2 0 2 9 ,1 5 8 T o t a l a s s et s 829,887 Intersegment eliminations 1 ,9 5 2 Segment liabilities 116,283 137,804 6,213 29,528 19,362 33,625 342,815 P r o f i t bef o r e i n c o m e t a x 3 1 ,1 1 0 Intersegment eliminations (113,545) Depreciation and amortisation (7 ,9 4 4 ) (1 ,9 9 5 ) (7 8 4 ) (2 ,2 1 1 ) (1 4 ,6 8 6 ) (2 7 ,6 2 0 ) Current tax liability 5,719 Impairment (6 0 0 ) (6 0 0 ) Borrowings 131,994 T o t a l l i a bi l i t i es 366,983 Acquisitions of non-current assets* 12,887 2,193 446 12,082 6,357 33,965 *Other than financial assets and deferred tax Segment assets 1 23,336 386,861 41,091 71,844 78,201 253,491 954,824 Intersegment eliminations (1 6 6 ,9 7 0 ) Geographical areas Cash and cash equivalents 12,187 The table below sets forth segment information for the key geographical areas the Group operates in. Current tax asset 699 Australia PNG Other Total Deferred tax assets 1 7 ,5 6 6 $000's $000's $000's $000's T o t a l a s s et s 818,306 2020 Segment liabilities 6 9,726 178,446 7,870 31,503 21,677 28,567 337,789 Revenue from external customers 516,541 237,222 376,866 1,130,629 Intersegment eliminations (1 2 8 ,4 2 1 ) 2019 Current tax liability 5,141 Revenue from external customers 517,027 264,131 408,387 1,189,545 Borrowings 122,438 Segment revenues are allocated based on the country in which the customer is located. T o t a l l i a bi l i t i es 336,947 *Other than financial assets and deferred tax No single external customer represents more than 10% of revenues in either the 2020 or 2019 financial reporting period. The total of non-current assets other than deferred tax assets located in Australia is $214,248,000 (2019: $201,757,000) and the total of these non-current The following table sets forth the impact of adopting AASB 16 (refer to note 1 for details) on the relevant segments for the year ended 30 April 2020. assets located in other countries is $70,508,000 (2019: $57,786,000). Segment assets are allocated to countries based on where the assets are located. Profit before income tax Assets Liabilities $000's $000's $000's Rice Pool International Rice (152) 5,222 5,089 Rice Food Riviana (6) 679 699 Coprice Corporate (323) 9,556 10,671 (4 8 1 ) 15,457 16,459 SUNRICE SUNRICE ANNUAL ANNUAL REPORT 2020 // 87 REPORT 2020 87 SUNRICE ANNUAL SUNRICE REPORT 2020 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 // 88 88 Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements Continued Continued 2b. Revenue 2d. Expenses 2020 2019 Profit before income tax includes the following specific expenses. $000's $000's 2020 2019 $000's $000's S a l es r ev en u e Sale of goods recognised at a point in time 1 ,130,629 1,189,545 C o n t r i bu t i o n s t o em pl o y ee s u per a n n u a t i o n pl a n s (7 ,3 2 9 ) (7,937) O t h er r ev en u e O t h er ex pen s es Interest received 295 421 Energy (1 4 ,4 4 8 ) (18,861) Other sundry items 3,894 3,097 Contracted services (2 4 ,9 3 9 ) (24,535) 4,189 3,518 Equipment hire and other rental expense (not qualifying as leases) (2019 operating lease (1 0 ,9 0 9 ) (13,737) expenditure and equipment hire) T o t a l r ev en u e f r o m c o n t i n u i n g o per a t i o n s 1,134,818 1,193,063 Advertising and artwork (1 6 ,8 8 0 ) (24,710) Repairs and maintenance (8 ,9 8 5 ) (10,433) Recognition and measurement Insurance (5 ,6 8 4 ) (4,455) Sale of goods Training (8 0 9 ) (2,156) Sales are recognised when control of the products has transferred, being when the products are delivered to the customer and the customer has full Internet, telephone and fax (2 ,5 8 2 ) (2,809) discretion over the channel and price to on-sell the products. Delivery occurs when the products have been shipped to the specific location, the risks of Motor vehicle and travelling expenses (7 ,4 1 9 ) (8,313) obsolescence and loss have been transferred to the customer and there is no unfulfilled obligation that could affect the customer’s acceptance of the Research and development (1 ,2 9 3 ) (617) products. Net loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment (477) Goods are often sold with discounts. Revenue from these sales is recognised based on the price specified in the contract, net of the estimated discounts. Impairment of assets (6 0 0 ) (288) Accumulated experience is used to estimate and provide for the discounts, using the expected value method, and revenue is only recognised to the extent Net foreign exchange losses (6 7 6 ) (7,850) that it is highly probable that a significant reversal will not occur. A refund liability (included in trade and other payables) is recognised for expected discounts ASX Listing costs (2,031) payable to customers in relation to sales made until the end of the reporting period. Other (1 8 ,7 1 5 ) (18,586) No element of financing is deemed present as the sales are generally made with a credit term of 30 to 60 days. T o t a l o t h er ex pen s es (1 1 3 ,9 3 9 ) (139,858) A receivable is recognised when the products are delivered as this is the point in time that the consideration is unconditional, because only the passage of time is required before the payment is due. 2e. Earnings per B Class Share Interest income 2020 2019 Cents Cents Interest income on financial assets at amortised cost is calculated using the effective interest method. Basic and diluted earnings per B Class share 45.8 54.5 Revenue from other sundry items Revenue from other sundry items is derived from grants received from the government and other ad-hoc services provided by the Group. Reconciliation of earnings per B Class Share Grants from the government are recognised at their fair value, where there is a reasonable assurance that the grant will be received and the Group will 2020 2019 comply with all attached conditions. Government grants are deferred and recognised as income over the period necessary to match them with the costs $000's $000's that they are intended to compensate. Profit for the year 2 7,013 31,498 Revenue from the provision of other ad-hoc services is recognised in the accounting period in which the services are performed. Weighted average number of B Class shares outstanding for basic and diluted earnings per share 58,959 57,809 Goods and Services Tax (GST) Revenues, expenses and assets are recognised net of the amount of associated GST, unless the GST incurred is not recoverable from the taxation authority. In this case it is recognised as part of the cost of acquisition of the asset or as part of the expense. Recognition and measurement Basic earnings per B Class share 2c. Other income Basic earnings per B Class share is calculated by dividing: 2020 2019 $000's $000's • the profit attributable to B Class shareholders of the company, excluding any costs of servicing equity other than B Class Shares Net gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment 191 • by the weighted average number of B Class Shares outstanding during the financial year, adjusted for bonus elements in B Class Shares issued during the year and excluding treasury shares Fair value adjustment to investment properties 1,750 Diluted earnings per B Class Share T o t a l o t h er i n co m e 191 1,750 Diluted earnings per B Class Share adjusts the figures used in the determination of basic earnings per B Class Share to take into account: • the after income tax effect of interest and other financing costs associated with dilutive potential B Class Shares, and; • the weighted average number of additional B Class Shares that would have been outstanding assuming the conversion of all dilutive potential B Class Shares SUNRICE SUNRICE ANNUAL ANNUAL REPORT REPORT 2020 2020 // 89 89 SUNRICE ANNUAL SUNRICE REPORT 2020 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 // 90 90 Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements Continued Continued 2f. Income taxes Deferred tax assets 2020 2019 Income tax expense $000's $000's 2020 2019 T h e ba l a n c e c o m pr i s es t em po r a r y di f f er en c es a t t r i bu t a bl e t o : $000's $000's Provisions 9 ,160 8,026 Current tax expense (1 0 ,3 6 9 ) (11,341) Accruals 5,328 4,016 Deferred tax benefit / (expense) 2,068 (4,397) Depreciation 2 ,9 8 4 2,871 Adjustments for income tax of prior periods (1 2 9 ) 94 Lease Liabilities 4 ,4 0 5 I n c o m e t a x ex pen s e a t t r i bu t a bl e t o pr o f i t f r o m c o n t i n u i n g o per a t i o n s (8 ,4 3 0 ) (15,644) Foreign exchange 378 278 Inventories 3 ,4 5 2 3,411 D ef er r ed i n c o m e t a x ben ef i t / (ex pen s e) i n c l u ded i n i n c o m e t a x ex pen s e c o m pr i s es : Tax losses 141 Increase / (decrease) in deferred tax assets 1 ,3 3 8 (1,942) Other 665 1,103 Decrease / (increase) in deferred tax liabilities 730 (2,455) 26,372 19,846 2,068 (4,397) Derivatives cash flow hedges 367 234 Numerical reconciliation of income tax expense to prima facie tax payable T o t a l def er r ed t a x a s s et s 2 6 ,7 3 9 20,080 2020 2019 $000's $000's Set-off of deferred tax liabilities pursuant to set-off provisions (9 ,1 7 3 ) (5,208) N et def er r ed t a x a s s et s 17,566 14,872 Profit from continuing operations before related income tax 31,110 48,411 Income tax expense calculated at the Australian rate of tax of 30% (2019: 30%) (9 ,3 3 3 ) (14,523) 2020 2019 Tax effect of amounts which are not taxable / (deductible) in calculating taxable income: $000's $000's Entertainment (5 7 ) (70) Deferred tax assets expected to be recovered within 12 months 19,296 15,846 Research & development 75 69 Deferred tax assets expected to be recovered after more than 12 months 7,443 4,234 Overseas attributable income (5 1 7 ) (1,436) T o t a l def er r ed t a x a s s et s 26,739 20,080 Difference in overseas tax rates 4 ,7 8 5 1,439 Sundry items (6 4 2 ) (207) 3,644 (205) 2020 2019 Movements $000's $000's Tax effect of tax losses and temporary differences not recognised (2 ,6 1 2 ) (1,010) O pen i n g ba l a n c e a t 1 M a y 2 0 ,0 8 0 22,101 Adjustments for income tax of prior periods (1 2 9 ) 94 Adjustment on adoption of AASB 16 4 ,961 I n c o m e t a x ex pen s e (8 ,4 3 0 ) (15,644) R es t a t ed ba l a n c e a t 1 M a y 2 5 ,0 4 1 22,101 Tax relating to items of other comprehensive income Credited / (charged) to income statement 1 ,338 (1,942) 2020 2019 Foreign exchange differences on translation 227 78 $000's $000's Credited / (charged) to other comprehensive income 133 (239) Cash flow hedges 261 (377) Business combination 82 C l o s i n g ba l a n c e a t 3 0 A pr i l 26,739 20,080 SUNRICE SUNRICE ANNUAL ANNUAL REPORT REPORT 2020 2020 // 91 91 SUNRICE ANNUAL SUNRICE REPORT 2020 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 // 92 92 Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements Continued Continued Deferred tax liabilities Deferred income tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their 2020 2019 carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements. However, deferred tax liabilities are not recognised if they arise from the initial recognition of $000's $000's goodwill. Deferred income tax is also not accounted for if it arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that, at the time of the transaction, affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss. Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates (and T h e ba l a n c e c o m pr i s es t em po r a r y di f f er en c es a t t r i bu t a bl e t o : laws) that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the end of the reporting period and are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax Prepayments 120 170 asset is realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled. Inventories 2,307 2,514 Deferred tax assets are recognised for deductible temporary differences and unused tax losses only if it is probable that future taxable amounts will be Depreciation 41 142 available to utilise those temporary differences and losses. Deferred tax liabilities and assets are not recognised for temporary differences between the Right-of-use-assets 4 ,0 2 5 carrying amount and tax bases of investments in foreign operations where the company is able to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary Investment property 525 525 differences and it is probable that the differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future. Foreign exchange 1 ,4 7 7 1,104 Current and deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset, the balances relate to the same taxation authority Brands acquired through business combination 488 518 and the Company intends either to settle on a net basis, or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. Other 126 43 Current and deferred tax is recognised in profit or loss, except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in 9,109 5,016 equity. In this case, the tax is also recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, respectively. Derivatives cash flow hedges 64 192 Tax consolidation legislation T o t a l def er r ed t a x l i a bi l i t i es 9,173 5,208 Ricegrowers Limited and its wholly owned Australian controlled entities have adopted the tax consolidation legislation. As a consequence, these entities are Set-off of deferred tax liabilities pursuant to set-off provisions (9 ,1 7 3 ) (5,208) taxed as a single entity and the deferred tax assets and liabilities of these entities are set off in the consolidated financial statements. Both the head entity N et def er r ed t a x l i a bi l i t i es and the subsidiaries will continue to recognise deferred tax balances. All current tax balances will be assumed by the head entity. Any deferred tax assets arising from unused tax losses and unused tax credits will also be recognised in the head entity. 2020 2019 Investment allowances and similar incentives $000's $000's Companies within the Group may be entitled to claim special tax deductions for investments in qualifying assets or in relation to qualifying expenditure (eg the Research and Development Tax Incentive regime in Australia or other investment allowances). The Group accounts for such allowances as tax credits, Deferred tax liabilities expected to be settled within 12 months 5,244 4,023 which means that the allowance reduces income tax payable and current tax expense. A deferred tax asset is recognised for unclaimed tax credits that are Deferred tax liabilities expected to be settled after more than 12 months 3,929 1,185 carried forward as deferred tax assets. T o t a l def er r ed t a x l i a bi l i t i es 9,173 5,208 2020 2019 Movements $000's $000's O pen i n g ba l a n c e a t 1 M a y 5,208 2,219 Adjustment on adoption of AASB 16 4 ,708 R es t a t ed ba l a n c e a t 1 M a y 9,916 2,219 (Charged) / credited to income statement (7 3 0 ) 2,455 Foreign exchange difference on translation 115 21 (Credited) / charged to other comprehensive income (1 2 8 ) 138 Business combination 375 C l o s i n g ba l a n c e a t 3 0 A pr i l 9,173 5,208 Significant estimates and judgements Deferred tax assets not recognised for capital and ordinary losses The Group does not recognise deferred tax assets for capital losses, as the Group does not believe it is probable that taxable capital gains will generally arise against which capital losses can be utilised. The Group has not recognised deferred tax assets of $6,654,000 (2019: $4,546,000) for ordinary tax losses available in some of the jurisdictions in which it operates, as the Group considers there remains uncertainty in the ability of the subsidiaries located in these jurisdictions to generate enough future taxable profits against which these losses can be utilised. The Group will continuously reassess this position should conditions in these jurisdictions improve in a sustainable manner. Recognition and measurement The income tax expense for the period is the tax payable on the current period’s taxable income based on the applicable tax rate for each jurisdiction, adjusted for changes in deferred tax assets and liabilities attributable to temporary differences and unused tax losses, where they are recognised. The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of the tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the end of the reporting period in the countries where the company and its subsidiaries operate and generate taxable income. The Group periodically evaluates positions taken in tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax regulation is subject to interpretation. It establishes provisions where appropriate on the basis of amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities. SUNRICE SUNRICE ANNUAL ANNUAL REPORT REPORT 2020 2020 // 93 93 SUNRICE ANNUAL SUNRICE REPORT 2020 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 // 94 94 Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements Continued Continued 3. Operating assets and liabilities Trade receivables are written off when there is no reasonable expectation of recovery. Indicators that there is no reasonable expectation of recovery include, amongst others, the failure of a customer to engage in a repayment plan with the Group, a significant amount of days past due (generally more than 6 This section provides details of the Group’s operating assets used and liabilities incurred in generating the Group’s trading activities and performance. months), or information about the customer entering bankruptcy or financial reorganisation. 3a. Receivables Loss allowances on trade receivables are presented within other expenses. Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against the 2020 2019 same line item. $000's $000's Recognition and measurement C u r r en t Trade receivables Trade receivables 1 96,092 165,110 Trade receivables are amounts due from customers for products sold in the ordinary course of business. They are generally due for settlement within 30 to Loss allowance (6 ,7 7 3 ) (3,596) 60 days from the date of recognition and are therefore all classified as current. 189,319 161,514 Trade receivables are recognised initially at the amount of consideration that is unconditional. The Group holds the trade receivables with the objective to Other receivables 1,384 935 collect the contractual cash flows and therefore measures them subsequently at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less loss allowance. GST receivable 2,350 2,294 Goods and Services Tax (GST) Prepayments 3 ,933 3,508 Receivables are stated inclusive of the amount of GST receivable. The net amount of GST recoverable from, or payable to, the taxation authority is included T o t a l r ec ei v a bl es 196,986 168,251 with other receivables or payables. Risk exposure Significant estimates and judgements Information about the Group’s exposure to foreign exchange risk and credit risk is provided in note 4g, with further details around the loss allowance Loss allowance available below. Trade receivables for sales of goods are subject to the expected credit loss model. The Group applies the AASB 9 simplified approach to measuring expected 3b. Inventories credit losses, which uses a lifetime expected loss allowance for all trade receivables. To measure the expected credit losses, trade receivables have been 2020 2019 grouped based on shared credit risk characteristics and the days past due. $000's $000's The expected loss rates are based on the payment profiles of sales over a period of 12 to 36 months (depending on the country in which the sales are made) Raw materials 121,152 209,618 prior to the balance sheet date and the corresponding historical credit losses experienced within this period. The historical loss rates are adjusted to reflect current and forward looking information on macroeconomic factors affecting the ability of the customers to settle the receivables. Finished goods 134,490 133,899 Packaging materials 10,068 8,057 Additional allowances are also taken where specific and known risks have been identified for some customers. As a result, the loss allowance for trade Engineering and consumable stores 11,628 9,818 receivables was determined as follows: T o t a l i n v en t o r i es 277,338 361,392 Greater than 0 to 30 days 31 to 60 days 61 to 90 days 90 days past 30 April 2020 Current past due past due past due due Total Significant estimates and judgements Raw materials inventory and associated amounts payable to Riverina Rice Growers Expected loss rate (inclusive of specific known risks) 0.3% 1.5% 3.4% 16.5% 57.3% Gross carrying amount of trade receivables $000's 1 42,007 29,782 10,817 5,287 8,199 196,092 The valuation of paddy rice included in raw materials inventory and the associated amounts payable to Riverina Rice Growers generally require an L o s s a l l o wa n c e $000's 400 435 370 873 4,695 6,773 assumption of the paddy price for the relevant pool. This assumption is based on the Directors’ most recent estimate of the performance of the Rice Pool business and the relevant fixed price contracts that may be applicable to any given crop year. Greater than 0 to 30 days 31 to 60 days 61 to 90 days 90 days past 30 April 2019 Current past due past due past due due Total Recognition and measurement Raw materials, finished goods, packaging materials and engineering and consumables stores have been valued on the basis of the lower of cost or net Expected loss rate (inclusive of specific known risks) 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.1% 60.1% realisable value. Gross carrying amount of trade receivables $000's 121,089 22,085 13,335 2,634 5,967 165,110 Cost includes the reclassification from equity of any gains or losses on qualifying cash flow hedges of foreign currency purchases of inventory but excludes L o s s a l l o wa n c e $000's 8 1 1 2 3,584 3,596 borrowing costs. Cost in relation to processed inventories comprises direct materials, direct labour and an appropriate allowance for milling, fixed and The directors are satisfied that debtors are fairly valued with respect to credit risk. Of the total trade receivables outstanding at 30 April 2020, 72% (2019: 73%) variable overheads less by-products with recovery on the basis of normal operating capacity. are current and 28% (2019: 27%) are overdue. The directors have no reason to believe that amounts not provided for will not be collected in full in a Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the normal course of business less the estimated costs of completion and estimated costs necessary to subsequent period. make the sale. The closing loss allowances for trade receivables at the balance sheet date reconcile to the opening loss allowances as follows: Raw materials, finished goods, packaging materials and engineering and consumable stores inventory are determined from a combination of weighted 2020 2019 average purchase price and standard costs and after deducting rebates and discounts. $000's $000's At 1 May 3 ,5 9 6 1,055 Loss allowance recognised during the year 3 ,205 2,579 Receivables written off during the year as uncollectible (1 9 8 ) (17) Amounts subsequently collected (1 6 ) (95) Foreign currency differences on translation 186 74 A t 3 0 A pr i l 6,773 3,596 SUNRICE SUNRICE ANNUAL ANNUAL REPORT REPORT 2020 2020 // 95 95 SUNRICE ANNUAL SUNRICE REPORT 2020 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 // 96 96 Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements Continued Continued 3c. Payables and amounts payable to Riverina Rice Growers Significant estimates and judgements 2020 2019 Provisions and contingent liabilities $000's $000's The Group exercises judgement in measuring and recognising provisions and the exposures to contingent liabilities related to pending litigation or other C u r r en t outstanding claims subject to negotiated settlement, mediation, arbitration or government regulation, as well as other contingent liabilities. Trade and other payables 1 59,925 134,064 Judgement is necessary in assessing the likelihood that a pending claim will succeed, or a liability will arise, and to quantify the possible range of the Amounts payable to Riverina Rice Growers 18,423 66,220 financial settlement. Due to the inherent uncertainty in this evaluation process, actual losses may be different from the originally estimated provisions. 178,348 200,284 Recognition and measurement N o n cu r r en t Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is probable that an outflow of resources Trade and other payables 1 ,830 1,707 will be required to settle the obligation and the amount can be reliably estimated. Provisions are not recognised for future operating losses. 1,830 1,707 Where there are a number of similar obligations, the likelihood that an outflow will be required in settlement is determined by considering the class of obligations as a whole. A provision is recognised even if the likelihood of an outflow with respect to any one item included in the same class of obligations Recognition and measurement may be small. Trade payables Provisions are measured at the present value of the Group’s best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the present obligation at the end of the reporting period. The discount rate used to determine the present value is a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money Trade payables represent liabilities for goods and services provided to the Group prior to the end of the financial year which are unpaid. The amounts are and the risks specific to the liability. The increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as interest expense and any change in the unsecured and are usually paid within 30 to 90 days of recognition. Trade and other payables are presented as current liabilities unless payment is not due underlying provision amount is recognised in profit or loss. within 12 months after the reporting period. Trade and other payables are recognised initially at their fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. 3e. Employee benefits Amounts payable to Riverina rice growers Leave obligations Amounts payable to Riverina rice growers comprise the balance of pool and fixed price contracts payments owed to growers. They also comprise the next Employee benefits include leave obligations which cover the Group’s liabilities for long service leave and annual leave, which are classified as either other financial year’s pool or fixed price contracts payments where paddy rice for the next crop year is received before the end of the financial year. long-term benefits or short-term benefits. The portion of the payable in respect of the current financial year is based on the final paddy price for the year (or applicable fixed price). The portion in respect of paddy rice received for the next financial year is based on that year’s budgeted paddy price (or applicable fixed price). The current portion of this liability includes all of the accrued annual leave, the unconditional entitlements to long service leave where employees have completed the required period of service and also for those employees that are entitled to pro-rata payments in certain circumstances. These amounts are Amounts payable to Riverina rice growers are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for presented as current, since the Group does not have an unconditional right to defer settlement for any of these obligations. However, based on past at least 12 months after the balance sheet date. experience, the Group does not expect all employees to take the full amount of accrued leave or require payment within the next 12 months. The following Risk exposure amounts reflect leave that is not expected to be taken or paid within the next 12 months but for which the obligation is presented as current: Information about the Group’s exposure to foreign exchange risk is provided in note 4g. 2020 2019 $000's $000's 3d. Provisions 2020 2019 Current leave obligations expected to be settled after 12 months 4,389 4,338 Current Non-current Total Current Non-current Total $000's $000's $000's $000's $000's $000's Recognition and measurement Short term obligations Employee benefits (note 3e) 23,021 3,833 26,854 22,210 3,873 26,083 Employee allowances 89 89 104 104 Liabilities for wages and salaries, including non-monetary benefits and accumulating sick leave that are expected to be settled wholly within 12 months after Directors' retirement benefits 193 193 193 193 the end of the period in which the employees render the related service are recognised in respect of employees’ services up to the end of the reporting Make good 352 352 period and are measured at the amounts expected to be paid when the liabilities are settled. The liabilities are presented as current employee benefit obligations. T o t a l pr o v i s i o n s 23,303 4,185 27,488 22,507 3,873 26,380 Long term obligations Directors' The liabilities for long service leave and annual leave are not expected to be settled wholly within 12 months after the end of the period in which the Employee Employee retirement employees render the related service. They are therefore measured as the present value of expected future payments to be made in respect of services benefits allowances benefits Make good Total provided by employees up to the end of the reporting period using the projected unit credit method. Consideration is given to expected future wage and $000's $000's $000's $000's $000's salary levels, experience of employee departures and periods of service. Expected future payments are discounted using market yields at the end of the reporting period of high-quality corporate bonds with terms and currencies that match, as closely as possible, the estimated future cash outflows. Ca r r y i ng a m ou nt a t 1 M a y 2019 26,083 104 193 26,380 Remeasurements as a result of experience, adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are recognised in profit or loss. The obligations are presented Additional provision recognised 771 352 1,123 as current employee benefit obligations if the entity does not have an unconditional right to defer settlement for at least twelve months after the reporting Amount used during the year (1 5 ) (1 5 ) period, regardless of when the actual settlement is expected to occur. C a r r y i n g a m o u n t a t 3 0 A pr i l 2 0 2 0 26,854 89 193 352 27,488 Superannuation plan contributions Contributions to employee superannuation plans are charged as an expense as the contributions are paid or become payable. Ca r r y i ng a m ou nt a t 1 M a y 2018 26,257 172 325 26,754 Incentive plans Amount used during the year (9) (68) (132) (209) The Group recognises a liability and an expense for short and long term cash incentives based on a formula that takes into consideration financial Business combination (165) (165) performance metrics for the Group and the eligible employees’ personal performance indicators. The Group recognises a provision where contractually C a r r y i n g a m o u n t a t 3 0 A pr i l 2 0 1 9 26,083 104 193 26,380 obliged or where there is a past practice that has created a constructive obligation. For share based payments incentive plans, refer to note 6b. SUNRICE SUNRICE ANNUAL ANNUAL REPORT REPORT 2020 2020 // 97 97 SUNRICE ANNUAL SUNRICE REPORT 2020 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 // 98 98 Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements Continued Continued Termination benefits Significant estimates and judgements Termination benefits are payable when employment is terminated by the Group before the normal retirement date, or when an employee accepts Impairment voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benefits. The Group recognises termination benefits at the earlier of the following dates: Property, plant and equipment are tested for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying amount may not be • when the Group can no longer withdraw the offer of those benefits; and recoverable. An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the asset’s carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less costs of disposal and value in use. For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the • when the entity recognises costs for a restructuring that is within the scope of AASB 137 and involves the payment of terminations benefits. lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash inflows which are largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets or groups of assets In the case of an offer made to encourage voluntary redundancy, the termination benefits are measured based on the number of employees expected to (cash-generating units). Specific circumstances impacting individual assets within those cash generating units are also considered. accept the offer. Benefits falling due more than 12 months after the end of the reporting period are discounted to present value. The recoverability of the Group’s assets is generally dependent on the Group's ability to continuously innovate, improve manufacturing efficiency, increase 3f. Property, plant and equipment the volume of throughput and improve product mix in order to meet targets. It is also subject to long term weather patterns in the Riverina and could be Land & Leasehold Plant & Assets under Right of Use impacted by a prolonged period of drought conditions. Any fair value less cost of disposal estimates are based on market-available data and various other Totals assumptions. Changes in economic and operating conditions impacting these judgmental assumptions could result in the recognition of impairment Buildings Improvements Equipment Construction Assets charges in future periods. The Group will continue to closely monitor the performance of the cash generating units. 2020 $000's $000's $000's $000's $000's $000's Assets that suffered an impairment are reviewed for possible reversal of the impairment at the end of each reporting period. Cost 249,547 13,397 308,760 17,129 23,245 612,078 Accumulated depreciation and impairment (1 2 9 ,5 1 3 ) (5 ,0 9 8 ) (2 0 5 ,2 8 6 ) (7 ,7 8 8 ) (3 4 7 ,6 8 5 ) Recognition and measurement Car r y i ng am ount 1 2 0 ,0 3 4 8 ,2 9 9 1 0 3 ,4 7 4 1 7 ,1 2 9 1 5 ,4 5 7 2 6 4 ,3 9 3 Freehold land is held at cost and is not depreciated. In some countries, the Group also holds land use rights. These rights are stated at historical cost less depreciation and are depreciated over the period of time that they have been granted by the local authorities using the straight line method. C a r r y i n g a m o u n t a t 3 0 A pr i l 2 0 1 9 117,993 7,920 85,871 27,893 239,677 Right-of-use assets are recognised and measured based on the principles detailed in note 1. Adjustment on adoption of AASB 16 (1 ,1 6 7 ) 16,911 15,744 Other items of property, plant and equipment are stated at historical cost less depreciation and are depreciated over their estimated useful lives using the R es t a t ed ca r r y i n g a m o u n t a t 1 M a y 2019 117,993 7,920 84,704 27,893 16,911 255,421 straight line method. Additions 3 0 ,8 7 3 3 0 ,8 7 3 Historical cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the items. Cost may also include transfers from equity of any gains or Recognition of right-of-use-asset 2 ,6 7 1 2 ,6 7 1 losses on qualifying cash flow hedges of foreign currency purchases of property, plant and equipment. Subsequent costs are included in the asset’s carrying Capital works in progress reclassifications 8,846 577 31,445 (4 0 ,8 6 8 ) amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the Transfers (including to intangible assets) / Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably. The carrying amount of any component accounted for as a separate asset is derecognised when (6 ) (1 ) (2 9 3 ) (1 ,4 3 5 ) (1 ,7 3 5 ) disposals / scrapping replaced. Government grants relating to the purchase of property, plant and equipment are presented by deducting the grant in arriving at the carrying Depreciation expense (7 ,9 4 2 ) (5 7 8 ) (1 3 ,1 1 2 ) (4 ,3 4 9 ) (2 5 ,9 8 1 ) amount of the asset. All other repairs and maintenance are charged to profit or loss during the reporting period in which they are incurred. Impairment (6 0 0 ) (6 0 0 ) The expected useful lives are as follows: Foreign exchange difference on translation 1,143 381 1,330 666 224 3,744 C a r r y i n g a m o u n t a t 3 0 A pr i l 2 0 2 0 120,034 8,299 103,474 17,129 15,457 264,393 Buildings 25 to 50 years Leasehold improvements Shorter of 7 to 15 years or lease term In the 2020 reporting period, the Group’s division, CopRice, completed the acquisition of the extrusion assets of FeedRite Pty Ltd (FeedRite). Due to its nature, this acquisition did not qualify as a business combination. Accordingly, assets acquired were included in property, plant and equipment and no goodwill Plant and equipment 3 to 20 years arose as a result of this transaction. The assets’ residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at the end of each reporting period. An asset’s carrying amount is Land & Leasehold Plant & Assets under Right of Use written down immediately to its recoverable amount if the asset’s carrying amount is greater than its estimated recoverable amount. Gains and losses on Totals Buildings Improvements Equipment Construction Assets disposals are determined by comparing proceeds with carrying amount. These are included in other income or other expenses. 2019 $000's $000's $000's $000's $000's $000's Cost 238,855 12,370 281,114 27,893 560,232 Assets pledged as security Accumulated depreciation and impairment (120,862) (4,450) (195,243) (320,555) There is a fixed and floating charge over fixed assets as disclosed in note 4d. Car r y i ng am ount 117,993 7,920 85,871 27,893 239,677 3g. Investment property 2020 2019 Ca r r y i ng a m ou nt a t 1 M a y 2018 121,319 6,695 81,739 7,959 217,712 At fair value $000's $000's Additions 40,564 40,564 O pen i n g ba l a n c e a t 1 M a y 2 ,9 0 0 1,150 Recognition of finance leases 833 833 Net gain from fair value adjustment 1,750 Additions through business combination 681 681 C l o s i n g ba l a n c e a t 3 0 A pr i l 2,900 2,900 Capital works in progress reclassifications 3,789 1,574 15,031 (20,394) Transfers (including to intangible assets) / (25) (496) (1,335) (1,856) disposals / scrapping Recognition and measurement Depreciation expense (7,783) (540) (11,721) (20,044) Investment property comprises freehold land and buildings that were previously owner occupied. Owner occupation ceased and these properties are now Impairment (92) (196) (288) classified as “Investment properties” as they are held for long term capital appreciation. Foreign exchange difference on translation 785 191 681 418 2,075 These properties are carried at fair value, representing the open-market value as determined by external valuers. Changes in fair value are recorded in other C a r r y i n g a m o u n t a t 3 0 A pr i l 2 0 1 9 117,993 7,920 85,871 27,893 239,677 income or other expenses. In the 2019 reporting period, Ricegrowers Singapore Pte Ltd (a wholly owned subsidiary of Ricegrowers Limited) acquired a rice processing mill in Dong Thap Province, Vietnam. Due to its nature, this acquisition did not qualify as a business combination. Accordingly, assets acquired were included in property, plant and equipment and no goodwill arose as a result of this transaction. SUNRICE ANNUAL SUNRICE ANNUAL REPORT 2020 // 99 REPORT 2020 99 SUNRICE ANNUAL ANNUAL REPORT SUNRICE REPORT 2020 100 2020 // 100 Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements Continued Continued 3h. Intangibles Sensitivity to changes in assumptions Goodwill Brands Software Other Total The recoverability of the Group’s assets (including goodwill) is generally dependent on the Group's ability to continuously innovate, improve manufacturing 2020 $000's $000's $000's $000's $000's efficiency, increase the volume of throughput and improve product mix in order to meet growth targets. Cost 8,658 11,730 10,088 1,304 31,780 The directors and management have considered and assessed reasonably possible changes to the key assumptions detailed above and all other key Accumulated amortisation and impairment (8 ,5 2 7 ) (8 ,0 4 5 ) (7 5 9 ) (1 7 ,3 3 1 ) assumptions included in the budgets and forecasts used as a basis for the value in use calculations and have not identified any instances that could cause Car r y i ng am ount 8,658 3,203 2,043 545 14,449 the carrying amount of the Riviana, CopRice and Global Rice CGUs to exceed their recoverable amount. Recognition and measurement Ca r r y i ng a m ou nt a t 1 M a y 2019 8,658 3,599 1,086 802 14,145 Goodwill Additions 421 421 Transfers (including from property, plant and equipment) / Goodwill represents the excess of the consideration transferred, amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquired assets and acquisition date fair value 1,435 1,435 of any previous equity interest in the acquired entity, over the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired. disposals / scrapping Amortisation charge (4 8 3 ) (8 9 9 ) (2 5 7 ) (1 ,6 3 9 ) Goodwill is not amortised but is tested for impairment annually, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that it might be impaired. Foreign exchange difference on translation 87 87 An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the asset’s carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount. Goodwill is carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses. C a r r y i n g a m o u n t a t 3 0 A pr i l 2 0 2 0 8,658 3,203 2,043 545 14,449 Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units for the purpose of impairment testing. The allocation is made to those cash-generating units or groups of Goodwill Brands Software Other Total cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the business combination in which the goodwill arose, identified according to operating segments. 2019 $000's $000's $000's $000's $000's Acquired patents and brands Cost 8,658 11,241 8,179 1,301 29,379 Separately acquired patents and brands are shown at historical cost. Patents and brands acquired in a business combination are recognised at fair value at Accumulated amortisation and impairment (7,642) (7,093) (499) (15,234) the acquisition date. Car r y i ng am ount 8,658 3,599 1,086 802 14,145 All patents and brands have a finite useful life and are subsequently carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses. Capitalised software Ca r r y i ng a m ou nt a t 1 M a y 2018 4,829 2,448 685 1,062 9,024 Costs associated with maintaining software programmes are recognised as expense as incurred. Additions 234 11 245 Additions through business combination 3,829 1,250 5,079 Development costs that are directly attributable to the design and testing of identifiable and unique software products controlled by the Group are recognised as intangible assets when relevant criteria are met. Directly attributable costs that are capitalised as part of the software include employee costs Transfers (including from property, plant and equipment) / 1,335 1,335 and an appropriate portion of relevant overheads. Capitalised development costs are amortised from the point at which the asset is ready for use. disposals / scrapping Amortisation charge (432) (945) (260) (1,637) Amortisation methods and periods Foreign exchange difference on translation 99 99 Intangible assets are amortised on a straight line basis over the periods of their expected benefit: C a r r y i n g a m o u n t a t 3 0 A pr i l 2 0 1 9 8,658 3,599 1,086 802 14,145 Acquired patents and brands 5 to 20 years Details of the business combination are provided in note 5f. Capitalised software 3 years Goodwill Research and development costs Goodwill is specific to each cash generating unit (CGU) and is allocated as follows: Research expenditure and development expenditure that do not meet the relevant criteria for recognition as intangible assets are recognised as expense as 2020 2019 incurred. Development costs previously recognised as expense are not recognised as intangible asset in a subsequent period. $000's $000's 3i. Derivative financial instruments Global Rice 34 34 2020 2019 Riviana Foods 8 ,4 3 9 8,439 $000's $000's CopRice 185 185 C u r r en t a s s et s T o t a l G o o dw i l l 8 ,6 5 8 8,658 Forward foreign exchange contracts (cash flow hedges) 1 ,123 1,370 The recoverable amount of a CGU is determined based on value-in-use calculations. These calculations use 5 year cash flow projections based on financial 1,123 1,370 budgets approved by the Board for the forthcoming year and management forecasts for the years thereafter. Cash flows beyond the explicit period of C u r r en t l i a bi l i t i es projection are extrapolated using the estimated growth rates stated below, which are generally aligned with current inflation rates in the country of the CGU. Interest rate swaps (cash flow hedges) 1 ,1 7 7 899 Significant judgement and assumptions used for value in use calculations Forward foreign exchange contracts (cash flow hedges) 525 Long-term Growth Rate Pre Tax Discount Rate 1 ,7 0 2 899 2020 2019 2020 2019 CGU % % % % Hedge effectiveness Global Rice 2.2 1.8 9.3 11.6 Hedge effectiveness is determined at the inception of the hedge relationship and through periodic prospective effectiveness assessments to ensure that an Riviana Foods 2,2 1.8 10.7 13.0 economic relationship exists between the hedged items and the hedging instruments. CopRice 2.2 1.8 10.7 13.0 For hedges of foreign currency sales and purchases, the Group enters into hedge relationships where the critical terms of the hedging instruments match The discount rates reflect the risks relating to each CGU to the extent that the risk components are not already included in the cash flow forecasts. exactly with the terms of the hedged items. The Group therefore performs a qualitative assessment of effectiveness. If changes in circumstances affect the terms of the hedged items such that the critical terms no longer match exactly with the critical terms of the hedging instruments, the Group uses the SUNRICE ANNUAL SUNRICE 2020 // 101 REPORT 2020 ANNUAL REPORT 101 SUNRICE REPORT 2020 ANNUAL REPORT SUNRICE ANNUAL 2020 // 102 102 Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements Continued Continued hypothetical derivative method to assess effectiveness. In hedges of foreign currency sales and purchases, ineffectiveness may arise if the timing of the 4. Capital and financial risk management forecast transaction changes from what was originally estimated, or if there are changes in the credit risk of SunRice or the derivative counterparty. This section outlines how the Group manages its capital structure and its exposure to financial risk and provides details of its balance sheet liquidity and The Group also enters into interest rate swaps that have similar critical terms as the hedged items, such as reference rate, reset dates, payment dates, access to financing facilities. maturities and notional amounts. The Group does not hedge 100% of its bank loans, therefore the hedged items are identified as a proportion of the outstanding bank loans up to the notional amount of the swaps. As all critical terms matched during the year, the economic relationship was 100% effective. 4a. Capital risk management Hedge ineffectiveness for interest rate swaps is assessed using the same principles as for hedges of foreign currency sales and purchases. It may occur due to The Group’s and Company’s objectives when managing capital are to safeguard their ability to continue as a going concern, continue to grow the business, the credit or debit value adjustment on the interest rate swaps which is not matched by the loan, and differences in critical terms between the interest rate provide returns for A and B Class shareholders and benefits to other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital. swaps and underlying bank loans. There was no ineffectiveness during 2020 or 2019 in relation to the interest rate swaps. In order to maintain or adjust its capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to B Class shareholders, return capital to B Class shareholders, issue new B Class shares or sell assets to reduce debt. Recognition and measurement Consistent with others in the industry, the Group monitors capital on the basis of a gearing ratio. This ratio is calculated as net debt divided by net debt plus Derivatives and hedging activities total equity. Net debt is calculated as total borrowings less cash and cash equivalents. Total equity is calculated as ‘equity’ as shown in the consolidated Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured to their fair value at the balance sheet (including non-controlling interests). The gearing ratios at 30 April 2020 and 30 April 2019 were as follows: end of each reporting period. The accounting for subsequent changes in fair value depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging 2020 2019 instrument, and if so, the nature of the item being hedged. The Group designates certain derivatives as either: Notes $000's $000's • hedges of the fair value of recognised assets or liabilities (fair value hedges), or Net debt 4c 82,601 109,553 • hedges of a particular risk associated with the cash flows of recognised assets and liabilities and highly probable forecast transactions (cash flow Total equity 4 8 1 ,3 5 9 462,904 hedges). G ea r i n g r a t i o 15% 19% At inception of the hedge relationship, the Group documents the economic relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, including whether When considering the Group’s gearing, it is important to note that the Papua New Guinea Kina (PGK) is a restricted currency not freely traded on currency changes in the cash flows of the hedging instruments are expected to offset changes in the cash flows of the hedged items. The Group also documents its markets. As a result, the cash balance accumulated by Trukai Industries (see further details in note 4g – liquidity risk) may not always be repatriated on risk management objective and strategy for undertaking its hedge transactions. demand. This may result in additional borrowing cost to finance the Group’s working capital in the future and, if this amount of cash was to become The full fair value of a hedging derivative is classified as a non-current asset or liability when the remaining maturity of the hedged item is more than 12 unavailable for the Group, the Group’s gearing ratio would materially increase compared to its current level. months; it is classified as a current asset or liability when the remaining maturity of the hedged item is less than 12 months. Cash flow hedges that qualify for hedge accounting Franked dividends 2020 2019 The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised in the cash flow hedge $000's $000's reserve within equity. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in profit or loss, within other income/expenses. When forward contracts are used to hedge forecast transactions, the Group generally designates the full change in fair value of the forward contract (including Final dividend for the year ended 30 April 2019 of 33 cents (2018: 33 cents) per outstanding ordinary B forward points) as the hedging instrument. Class share 19,212 18,780 Amounts accumulated in equity are reclassified in the periods when the hedged item affects profit or loss, as follows: T o t a l di v i den d di s t r i bu t ed 19,212 18,780 • Where the hedged item subsequently results in the recognition of a non-financial asset (inventory or fixed assets), the deferred hedging gains or losses Subsequent to year end, the directors have recommended the payment of a final dividend of 33 cents per outstanding ordinary B Class share for the year and the deferred time value of the deferred forward points are included within the initial cost of the asset. The deferred amounts are ultimately ended 30 April 2020. The aggregated amount of the proposed dividend not recognised as a liability at 30 April 2020 is $19,540,000. The franked portion of the recognised in profit or loss as the hedged item affects profit or loss (for example through the use of inventory or depreciation of fixed assets). final dividend recommended after 30 April 2020 will be franked out of existing franking credits or out of franking credits arising from the payment of income tax in the year ending 30 April 2021. • The gain or loss relating to the effective portion of the interest rate swaps hedging variable rate borrowings is recognised in profit or loss within finance costs at the same time as the interest expense on the hedged borrowings. 2020 2019 $000's $000's When a hedging instrument expires, or is sold or terminated, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative deferred gain or loss and deferred costs of hedging in equity at that time remains in equity until the forecast transaction occurs. When the forecast transaction is no Franking credits available for subsequent financial years based on a tax rate of 30% (2019 30%) 7 6 ,2 3 5 80,146 longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss and deferred costs of hedging that were reported in equity are immediately reclassified to profit or loss. The above amounts represent the balance of the franking account as at the end of the reporting period, adjusted for franking credits that will arise from the Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting payment of the amount of the provision for income tax. The amounts include franking credits that would be available to the parent entity if distributable Certain derivative instruments do not qualify for hedge accounting. Changes in the fair value of any derivative instrument that does not qualify for hedge profits of subsidiaries were paid as dividends. The impact on the franking account of the dividend recommended by the directors since the end of the accounting are recognised immediately in profit or loss and are included in other income and expenses. reporting period, but not recognised as a liability at the reporting date, will be a reduction in the franking account of $8,446,000 (2019 – $8,305,000). Risk exposure Dividend Reinvestment Plan Information about the Group’s exposure to foreign exchange risk and interest rate risk is provided in note 4g. The company’s dividend reinvestment plan (see note 2e) was in operation in 2020 with regards to the distribution of the 2019 dividend. The plan will remain operation in 2021 with regards to the distribution of the 2020 dividend. Share buy-back In December 2019, the SunRice Board approved a proposal to conduct an on-market buy-back of B Class Shares, funded via a combination of cash and existing undrawn debt facilities. The buy-back is part of the Group’s commitment to efficiently manage its capital, while maintaining balance sheet flexibility to pursue future growth and investment opportunities. At the time of making the decision, the SunRice Board believed that the current B Class Share price did not reflect the value of the SunRice business or its future growth prospects. The buyback may also provide additional liquidity which could facilitate the increase of B Class Share value over time. At 30 April 2020, no B Class Shares were yet to be bought back under the scheme. SUNRICE ANNUAL SUNRICE 2020 // 103 REPORT 2020 ANNUAL REPORT 103 SUNRICE REPORT 2020 ANNUAL REPORT SUNRICE ANNUAL 2020 // 104 104 Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements Continued Continued 4b. Cash and cash equivalents Net debt reconciliation 2020 2019 2020 2019 $000's $000's Net debt $000's $000's Cash at bank and on hand 3 9 ,8 3 7 22,441 Cash and cash equivalents 3 9,837 22,441 Borrowings repayable within one year (including overdraft) (6 3 ,6 3 7 ) (39,465) T o t a l ca s h a n d ca s h equ i v a l en t s 39,837 22,441 Borrowings repayable after one year (5 8 ,8 0 1 ) (92,529) N et D ebt (8 2 ,6 0 1 ) (109,553) Reconciliation to cash at the end of the year Cash and cash equivalents 39,837 22,441 The figures above are reconciled to cash at the end of the financial year as shown in the consolidated cash flow statement as follows: Gross debt fixed interest rates (4 6 ,0 0 0 ) (46,000) 2020 2019 Gross debt variable interest rates (7 6 ,4 3 8 ) (85,994) $000's $000's N et debt (8 2 ,6 0 1 ) (109,553) Cash and cash equivalents 3 9 ,8 3 7 22,441 Less: Bank overdraft (note 4d) (8 ,3 2 3 ) (12,001) Other Assets Liabilities from financing activities B a l a n c es per c o n s o l i da t ed c a s h f l o w s t a t em en t 3 1 ,5 1 4 10,440 Lease liabilities due Lease Borrowings Borrowings Cash / bank within one liabilities due due within due after one Recognition and measurement overdrafts year after one year one year year Total For the purpose of presentation in the consolidated cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand, deposits held at call with $000's $000's $000's $000's $000's $000's financial institutions and bank overdrafts. Bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current liabilities. N et debt a t 1 M a y 2 0 1 8 122,902 (522) (483) (85,670) (78,721) (42,494) Goods and Services Tax (GST) Cash flows (114,605) 188 59,000 (13,230) (68,647) Cash flows are presented on a gross basis. The GST components of cash flows arising from investing or financing activities which are recoverable from, or Acquisition finance leases (833) (833) payable to the taxation authority, are presented as operating cash flows. Foreign exchange adjustments 2,143 2,143 Risk exposure Interests on lease liabilities (included in operating cash (302) 758 (158) (20) 278 The Group may be exposed to liquidity risk in relation to the availability of the USD currency in PNG. Details are presented in note 4g. flows) and other non cash movements N et debt a t 3 0 A pr i l 2 0 1 9 10,440 (636) (558) (26,828) (91,971) (109,553) 4c. Cash flow information and net debt reconciliation Adjustment on adoption of AASB 16 (3 ,4 6 3 ) (1 2 ,7 9 4 ) (1 6 ,2 5 7 ) Reconciliation of profit after income tax to net cash inflow / (outflow) from operating activities R es t a t ed n et debt a t 1 M a y 2 0 1 9 10,440 (4 ,0 9 9 ) (1 3 ,3 5 2 ) (2 6 ,8 2 8 ) (9 1 ,9 7 1 ) (1 2 5 ,8 1 0 ) 2020 2019 Cash flows 20,822 3,064 (2 5 ,2 0 5 ) 46,230 44,911 $000's $000's Acquisition right-of-use-assets (2 ,6 7 1 ) (2 ,6 7 1 ) Profit for the year 22,680 32,767 Foreign exchange adjustments 252 252 Interests on lease liabilities (included in operating cash Depreciation and amortisation 27,620 21,681 (2 ,6 1 8 ) 3,217 372 (2 5 4 ) 717 flows) and other non cash movements (Gain) / loss on sale / disposal of property, plant and equipment (1 9 1 ) 477 N et debt a t 3 0 A pr i l 2 0 2 0 3 1 ,5 1 4 (3 ,6 5 3 ) (1 2 ,8 0 6 ) (5 1 ,6 6 1 ) (4 5 ,9 9 5 ) (8 2 ,6 0 1 ) Net exchange differences (including changes in the fair value of derivatives) 3,674 352 Impairment of non-current assets 600 288 4d. Borrowings Share-based payment expense 1,621 1,273 2020 2019 Deductions under Employee Share Plan and Grower Share Purchase Plan 279 1,755 $000's $000's Share of associate's net profit (1,268) C u r r en t S ecu r ed Net operating assets acquired through business combination 12 Bank overdrafts 8,323 12,001 Fair value gain on investment property (1,750) Bank loans 52,205 27,000 C h a n g es i n o per a t i n g a s s et s a n d l i a bi l i t i es Net accrued interest and capitalised borrowing costs (5 4 4 ) (172) Increase in trade and other receivables (2 7 ,8 6 1 ) (19,147) Lease liabilities (note 1) 3,653 636 (Increase) / decrease in other operating assets (8 7 4 ) 2,053 T o t a l bo r r o w i n g s 6 3 ,6 3 7 39,465 Decrease in inventories 84,054 145,401 N o n cu r r en t S ecu r ed Decrease in amounts payable to Riverina Rice Growers (4 7 ,7 9 7 ) (207,969) Bank loans 46,000 92,230 Increase in trade and other payables and employee entitlements 2 7 ,0 9 2 4,718 Net accrued interest and capitalised borrowing costs (5 ) (259) Decrease in current tax receivable and liability 704 5,855 Lease liabilities (note 1) 1 2 ,8 0 6 558 (Increase) / decrease in deferred tax balances (2 ,0 6 8 ) 4,397 T o t a l bo r r o w i n g s 5 8 ,8 0 1 92,529 N et c a s h i n f l o w s / (o u t f l o w s ) f r o m o per a t i n g a c t i v i t i es 89,533 (9,105) SUNRICE ANNUAL SUNRICE 2020 // 105 REPORT 2020 ANNUAL REPORT 105 SUNRICE ANNUAL SUNRICE ANNUAL REPORT 2020 // 106 REPORT 2020 106 Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements Continued Continued Significant terms and conditions of bank facilities 4e. Share capital The Seasonal bank facility (including a trade finance and transactional banking facility) was renegotiated in 2020. The Seasonal bank facility limit of $222,400,000 increased by $42,400,000 compared to the prior year ($180,000,000) and the maturity date was extended to April 2021. The trade finance and A Class Shares transactional banking component of the facility ($120,000,000) remained as an uncommitted facility. A Class Shares have no nominal value but are voting shares held by active Riverina rice growers only. A Class Shares are not classified as equity. The Core bank facility of $220,000,000 was renegotiated in 2020 and the facility limit of $220,000,000 remained unchanged. The April 2021 ($120,000,000) At 30 April 2020, 605 (2019: 706) A Class shares were on issue. maturity date was extended to April 2024, while the April 2023 ($100,000,000) maturity date remained unchanged. The Board has the discretion to defer redemption of any A Class Share. This right was exercised in 2020 when the SunRice Board determined that it does not The Group’s Seasonal and Core bank borrowings are secured by registered equitable mortgages over all assets of the Obligor Group and a cross-guarantee intend to redeem an A Class Share in July 2020 if the Share is held by a person or entity that ceases to be an Active Grower as a result of their failure to deliver between each member of the Obligor Group (the composition of which has been detailed in note 4g). the minimum quantity of paddy rice to the company and is nevertheless able to satisfy the company that it intends to recommence growing and supplying Under the terms of the banking facilities, the Group is required to comply with a set of financial covenants. The Group complied with these covenants the minimum quantity of paddy rice to the company in the future. throughout the reporting period. Further details about the non-standard elements of the SunRice Group’s Constitution, including information about the Group’s dual class share structure In 2020, Trukai Industries continued to benefit from a PGK 75,000,000 (AUD 32,703,000) uncommitted overdraft facility. This facility is secured against the are included in the shareholder information section of this Annual Report. assets of Trukai Industries under a General Security Agreement. B Class Shares Risk exposure B Class Shares are non-voting shares and entitle the holder to participate in dividends. B Class shares have no par value and are classified as equity. Details of the Group’s undrawn bank facilities and exposure to risks arising from current and non-current borrowings are set out in note 4g. The Group’s bank The number of B Class Shares on issue is set out below: borrowings are categorised as follows: 2020 2019 2020 2019 Number of shares Number of shares $000's $000's Total B Class Shares outstanding at 30 April 59,211,998 58,217,481 Seasonal debt 52,205 27,000 Total treasury Shares (B Class) at 30 April 5 07,932 507,932 Core debt 46,000 92,230 Total B Class Shares on issue at 30 April 5 9 ,7 1 9 ,9 3 0 58,725,413 98,205 119,230 Movement in ordinary B Class Shares R epr es en t i n g : Current bank loans 5 2,205 27,000 2020 2019 2020 2019 Non-current bank loans 4 6 ,0 0 0 92,230 Number of shares Number of shares $000's $000's 98,205 119,230 B a la nce a t 1 M a y 58,725,413 56,769,031 122,852 111,855 Issue under Dividend Reinvestment Plan 941,217 949,628 5,280 5,423 Seasonal debt Issue under Grower Share Purchase Plan 222,404 1,270 Seasonal debt represents borrowings used for the purpose of funding net working capital requirements. Issue under Employee Share Scheme purchased shares 3 2 ,7 6 6 143,081 191 762 Core debt Issue under Employee Share Scheme shares offered for 20,534 33,337 117 194 no consideration Core debt represents borrowings used to fund fixed assets and investments. Treasury shares issued 507,932 2,956 Issue under the FY16/FY18 Chief Executive Officer Long Recognition and measurement 100,000 392 Term Incentive Plan Borrowings B a l a n c e a t 3 0 A pr i l 59,719,930 58,725,413 128,440 122,852 Borrowings are initially recognised at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred. Borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost. Dividend Reinvestment Plan Any difference between the proceeds (net of transaction costs) and the redemption amount is recognised in the consolidated income statement over the The Company has established a Dividend Reinvestment Plan (DRP) under which holders of ordinary B Class Shares may elect to have all or part of their period of the borrowings using the effective interest method. dividend entitlements satisfied by the issue of new ordinary B Class Shares rather than by being paid in cash. Fees paid on the establishment of bank facilities are recognised as transaction costs to the extent that it is probable that some or all of the facility will be B Class Shares have been issued under the DRP at a 2% discount to the prevailing market price at the time of the DRP offer in both 2020 and 2019. drawn down. In this case, the fee is deferred until the draw down occurs. To the extent there is no evidence that it is probable that some or all of the facility will be drawn down, the fee is capitalised as a prepayment for liquidity services and amortised over the period of the facility to which it relates. Grower Share Purchase Plan Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the The Company has established a Grower Share Purchase Plan (GSPP) under which eligible growers are given the opportunity to acquire ordinary B Class balance sheet date. Shares based on the number of paddy tonnes they deliver in any given crop year. Borrowing costs No offers were made under the GSPP in 2020. In 2019, B Class Shares were issued under the GSPP at a 2% discount to the prevailing market price at the time of the GSPP offer. General and specific borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset are capitalised during the period of time that is required to complete and prepare the asset for its intended use or sale. Qualifying assets are assets that necessarily take a Employee Share Scheme substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use or sale. Investment income earned on the temporary investment of specific borrowings The Company has established an Employee Share Scheme (ESS) under which eligible employees are given the opportunity to acquire ordinary B Class pending their expenditure on qualifying assets is deducted from the borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation. Shares out of their benefit entitlements or after tax funds. Under the matching arrangement of the ESS, eligible employees may also be granted B Class Other borrowing costs are expensed in the period in which they are incurred. Shares for no consideration (see further details in note 6b. B Class Shares are issued under the ESS at the prevailing market price at the time of the relevant annual ESS offer, with no discount. In the prior period, B Class Shares issued under the ESS also included 40,000 B Class Shares issued to the non-executive independent directors of Ricegrowers Limited under the FY18 ESS offer and which had not been able to be issued prior to 30 April 2018. Non-executive independent directors were not given the opportunity to participate in the 2020 and 2019 ESS offers. SUNRICE ANNUAL SUNRICE 2020 // 107 REPORT 2020 ANNUAL REPORT 107 SUNRICE ANNUAL SUNRICE ANNUAL REPORT REPORT 2020 2020 // 108 108 Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements Continued Continued Treasury shares 2020 2019 Treasury shares issued in the prior period are B Class Shares in Ricegrowers Limited that are held as unallocated B Class Shares by the Ricegrowers Retained profits $000's $000's Employee Share Trust for the purpose of allocating B Class Shares that may be delivered in the future under the FY2019-FY2021 Chief Executive Officer Long R epo r t ed ba l a n c e a t 1 M a y 3 0 6 ,6 4 3 293,925 Term Incentive Plan. Change in accounting Policy Adoption of AASB 16 (note 1) (6 0 0 ) Chief Executive Officer Long Term Incentive Plan B Class shares issued in the prior period related to vested ordinary B Class Shares under the FY2016-FY2018 Chief Executive Officer Long Term Incentive Plan. R es t a t ed ba l a n c e a t 1 M a y 3 0 6 ,0 4 3 293,925 Net profit for the year 2 7,013 31,498 Recognition and measurement Dividends provided for or paid (1 9 ,2 1 2 ) (18,780) Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new B Class Shares are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds. B a l a n c e a t 3 0 A pr i l 313,844 306,643 Where any Group company purchases the company’s equity instruments, for example as a result of a B Class Share buy-back or a share-based payment plan, the consideration paid, including any directly attributable incremental costs (net of income taxes) is deducted from equity attributable to the owners of Nature and purpose of reserves Ricegrowers Limited as treasury shares until the B Class Shares are cancelled or reissued. Where such B Class Shares are subsequently reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the related income tax effects, is included in equity attributable to General reserve the owners of Ricegrowers Limited. The general reserve has accumulated over prior periods with the purpose of retaining funds within the business. B Class Shares held as unallocated shares by the Ricegrowers Employee Share Trust are disclosed as treasury shares and deducted from total equity. Asset revaluation reserve 4f. Reserves and retained profits The asset revaluation reserve is used to record increments and decrements on the revaluation of non-current assets. 2020 2019 Foreign currency translation reserve $000's $000's Exchange differences arising on the translation of the foreign controlled entities’ financial information are taken to the foreign currency translation reserve. General reserve 28,453 28,453 The reserve is recognised in profit and loss when the net investment is disposed of. Asset revaluation reserve 4,917 4,917 Hedging reserve cash flow hedges Foreign currency translation reserve (9 ,1 0 7 ) (16,722) The hedging reserve is used to record the changes in the fair value of the following hedging instruments: Hedging reserve cash flow hedges (4 ) 369 Foreign currency Transaction with non-controlling interests (7 ,9 5 6 ) (7,956) forwards Interest rate swaps Total hedge reserve Share-based payment reserve 2 ,7 5 4 1,250 Cash flow hedge reserve $000's $000's $000's Treasury shares reserve (2 ,9 5 6 ) (2,956) O pen i n g ba l a n c e a t 1 M a y 2 0 1 8 (374) (372) (746) T o t a l r es er v es 16,101 7,355 Change in fair value of hedging instruments net of reclassification to the cost of R et a i n ed pr o f i t s 313,844 306,643 inventory or profit or loss 1,860 (368) 1,492 Deferred tax (488) 111 (377) Movements C l o s i n g ba l a n c e a t 3 0 A pr i l 2 0 1 9 998 (6 2 9 ) 369 2020 2019 Change in fair value of hedging instruments net of reclassification to the cost of Reserves $000's $000's inventory or profit or loss (3 5 6 ) (2 7 8 ) (6 3 4 ) Deferred tax 178 83 261 F o r ei g n cu r r en cy t r a n s l a t i o n r es er v e C l o s i n g ba l a n c e a t 3 0 A pr i l 2 0 2 0 820 (8 2 4 ) (4 ) Balance 1 May (1 6 ,7 2 2 ) (21,140) Net exchange difference on translation of overseas controlled entities 8 ,868 5,158 Transactions with non-controlling interests Non controlling interest in translation differences (1 ,2 5 3 ) (740) This reserve is used to record the effects that arise as a result of transactions with non-controlling interests that do not result in a loss of control. Balance 30 April (9 ,1 0 7 ) (16,722) Share-based payment reserve H edg i n g r es er v e c a s h f l o w h edg es The share-based payments reserve is used to recognise: Balance 1 May 369 (746) • the grant date fair value of B Class Share rights issued to employees but not yet vested under the Employee Long Term Incentive Plan (including the Change in fair value of hedging instruments net of reclassification to the cost of inventory or profit or loss (6 3 4 ) 1,492 Chief Executive Officer Long Term Incentive Plan), as described in note 6b, and Deferred tax 261 (377) • the grant date fair value of B Class Shares issued to employees for no consideration under the matching arrangement of the Employee Share Balance 30 April (4 ) 369 Scheme, as described in note 6b. S h a r eba s ed pa y m en t r es er v e Treasury shares reserve Balance 1 May 1 ,250 563 Treasury shares are B Class Shares in Ricegrowers Limited that are held as unallocated B Class Shares by the Ricegrowers Employee Share Trust for the Share-based payment expense 1,621 1,273 purpose of allocating B Class Shares that may be delivered in the future under the FY2019-FY2021 Chief Executive Officer Long Term Incentive Plan. B Class Shares issued to employees under the Employee Share Scheme (1 1 7 ) (586) Balance at 30 April 2 ,754 1,250 T r ea s u r y s h a r es r es er v e Balance 1 May (2 ,9 5 6 ) (113) Treasury shares issued under the Employee Share Scheme (2,956) Treasury shares allocated under the Employee Share Scheme 113 Balance at 30 April (2 ,9 5 6 ) (2,956) SUNRICE ANNUAL SUNRICE 2020 // 109 REPORT 2020 ANNUAL REPORT 109 SUNRICE ANNUAL SUNRICE ANNUAL REPORT REPORT 2020 2020 // 110 110 Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements Continued Continued 4g. Financial risk management Sensitivity analysis The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks, including market risks (such as foreign exchange risk and interest rate risk), credit risk and At 30 April 2020, had the US dollar increased by 5 cents to the Australian dollar, with all other variables held constant, the Group’s profit after tax for the year liquidity risk that are actively mitigated to reduce the Group's exposure. The Group’s overall risk management program focuses on the unpredictability of would have been $468,000 lower (2019: $409,000 lower) and other equity would have been $491,000 lower (2019: $154,000 higher). financial markets and seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the financial performance of the Group. At 30 April 2020, had the US dollar decreased by 5 cents to the Australian dollar, with all other variables held constant, the Group’s profit after tax for the year The Group uses derivative financial instruments such as forward foreign exchange contracts and interest rate swaps to hedge certain risk exposures. would have been $546,000 higher (2019: $467,000 higher) and other equity would have been $751,000 higher (2019: $167,000 lower). Derivatives are only used for economic hedging purposes and not as speculative investments. The tightening of the USD currency availability in Papua New Guinea (PNG) has affected Trukai’s ability to settle its intercompany trade payable during the The Group uses different methods to measure the different types of risks to which it is exposed. These methods include sensitivity analysis in the case of year, exposing the Group to the risk of a sudden devaluation of the PNG Kina (PGK). At 30 April 2020, the outstanding amount due from Trukai was USD interest rates and foreign exchange risks and ageing analysis for credit risk. 47,636,000 (AUD 72,626,000) compared to USD 26,150,000 (AUD 37,119,000) at 30 April 2019. If the USD/PGK exchange rate was 5 cents lower (0.2360 instead of 0.2860), with all other variables held constant, Trukai’s intercompany trade payable would have been higher in its local currency, resulting in an additional Financial risk management is executed under guidance from the Treasury Management Committee, in accordance with policies approved by the Board of foreign exchange loss in the Group’s profit after tax for the year of $8,888,000 (2019: $4,465,000). Directors. The Board provides written principles for overall risk management, as well as written policies covering specific areas, such as mitigating foreign exchange, interest rate and credit risks, the use of derivative financial instruments and investing excess liquidity. The Group’s exposure to other foreign currency exchange movements (including the EUR) is not considered material. Interest rate risk Market risk Exposure Foreign exchange risk The Group’s main interest rate risk arises from bank borrowings and bank overdrafts, which expose the Group to cash flow interest rate risk. The Group’s Exposure policy is to maintain a portion of its long-term bank borrowings at fixed rate, using floating-to-fixed interest rate swaps to achieve this when necessary. The table below sets out the Group’s main exposure to foreign currency risk at the reporting date, expressed in the foreign currency. The amounts presented Generally, the Group enters into long-term bank borrowings at floating rates and swaps them into fixed rates that are lower than those available if the Group reflect balances held in Group entities where the USD and EUR are not their functional currency. borrowed at fixed rates directly. 2020 2019 During 2020 and 2019, the Group’s bank borrowings at variable rate were mainly denominated in Australian dollar. The Group had the following variable USD $000's EUR $000's USD $000's EUR $000's rate borrowings and interest rate swap contracts outstanding (an analysis by maturities is provided in the liquidity risk section of this note: Weighted average Balance Cash 868 87 4,889 98 3 0 A pr i l 2 0 2 0 interest rate % $000's Trade receivables 6 8,616 79,755 Trade payables (8 6 ,1 2 4 ) (3 ,7 4 1 ) (63,005) (7,290) Bank loans and bank overdrafts 1 .8 (9 8 ,2 0 5 ) Foreign exchange contracts: Interest rate swaps (notional principal amount) 2 .3 46,000 selling foreign currency (6 4 ,0 5 0 ) (81,250) N et ex po s u r e t o c a s h f l o w i n t er es t r a t e r i s k (5 2 ,2 0 5 ) buying foreign currency 2 3 ,1 9 0 6 ,8 1 1 28,162 12,593 Weighted average Balance N et ex po s u r e s el l i n g c u r r en c y (5 7 ,5 0 0 ) 3,157 (31,449) 5,401 3 0 A pr i l 2 0 1 9 interest rate % $000's Instruments used by the Group Bank loans and bank overdrafts 2.9 (119,230) The Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk, primarily the US dollar (USD). Foreign exchange risk arises from future Interest rate swaps (notional principal amount) 2.3 46,000 commercial transactions and recognised assets and liabilities denominated in a currency that is not the functional currency of the relevant Group entity. N et ex po s u r e t o c a s h f l o w i n t er es t r a t e r i s k (73,230) Translation related risks are not included in the assessment of the Group’s exposure to foreign exchange risk. The risk is measured through cash flow forecasting and is hedged with the objective of minimising the volatility of the Australian currency equivalent of firm Instruments used by the Group commitments or highly probable forecast sales and purchases denominated in foreign currencies. The Group’s treasury’s risk management policy is to Swaps currently in place cover 100% (2019: 50%) of the Obligor Group Core debt outstanding. The Obligor Group is a sub-group of Ricegrowers Limited that hedge a portion of the forecast foreign currency cash flows for sales, inventory and fixed assets purchases for up to twelve months in advance, subject to a jointly guarantees the Core and Seasonal banking facilities contracted in Australia (see note 4d). The following entities are part of the Obligor Group: review of the cost of implementing each hedge. The Group uses foreign currency forwards to hedge its exposure to foreign currency risk. Under the Group’s • Riviana Foods Pty Ltd policy the critical terms of the forwards must align with the hedged items. Access to foreign currency forwards is however not always available in all the countries in which the Group operates (e.g, PNG). • Australian Grain Storage Pty Ltd Effects of hedge accounting on the financial position and performance • Rice Research Australia Pty Ltd The effects of the foreign currency related hedging instruments on the Group’s financial position and performance are as follows: • Solomons Rice Company Limited 2020 2019 • Sunshine Rice Inc. $000's $000's • Ricegrowers Singapore Pte Ltd F o r ei g n c u r r en c y f o r w a r ds • Silica Resources Pty Ltd Carrying amount asset 598 1,370 • Sunshine Rice Pty Ltd Notional amount selling foreign currency (6 4 ,0 5 0 ) (81,250) • SunFoods LLC Notional amount buying foreign currency 30,001 40,755 Maturity date M a y 2020 M a r ch 2021 May 2019 March 2020 • Roza’s Gourmet Pty Ltd Hedge ratio* 1 :1 1:1 The fixed interest rates of the swaps range between 2.22% and 2.48% (2019 – 2.22% and 2.48%) and the variable rates of the loans are between 1.10% and Change in fair value of hedging instruments since 1 May (3 5 6 ) 1,860 1.75% (2019 – 2.69% and 3.30%). The swap contracts require settlement of net interest receivable or payable every 90 days. The settlement dates coincide Change in value of hedged items used to determine hedge effectiveness 356 (1,860) with the dates on which interest is payable on the underlying debt. U S D 0 .66 :A U D 1 USD0.71:AUD1 Weighted average hedged rate for the year E U R 0.57:A U D 1 EUR0.63:AUD1 * The foreign currency forwards are denominated in the same currency as the highly probably future sales and purchases, therefore the hedge ratio is 1:1 SUNRICE ANNUAL SUNRICE 2020 // 111 REPORT 2020 ANNUAL REPORT 111 SUNRICE REPORT 2020 ANNUAL REPORT SUNRICE ANNUAL 2020 // 112 112 Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements Continued Continued Effects of hedge accounting on the financial position and performance Financing arrangements The effects of the interest rate swaps on the Group’s financial position and performance are as follows: The Group had access to the following undrawn borrowing facilities at the reporting date: 2020 2019 2020 2019 $000's $000's $000's $000's I n t er es t r a t e s w a ps F i x ed a n d f l o a t i n g r a t e: Carrying amount liability (1 ,1 7 7 ) (899) Bank overdraft expiring within one year 2 4,380 19,983 Notional amount 4 6 ,0 0 0 46,000 Bank loans expiring within one year 160,622 137,283 Maturity date 2020 / 2021 2020 / 2021 Bank loans expiring beyond one year 1 74,000 127,770 Hedge ratio* 1 :1 1:1 359,002 285,036 Change in fair value of hedging instruments since 1 May (2 7 8 ) (368) The bank overdraft facilities and $118,000,000 of the 2020 bank borrowing facilities (portion relating to trade finance and transactional banking), may be Change in value of hedged items used to determine hedge effectiveness 278 368 drawn at any time and may be terminated by the bank without notice. Additional information on significant terms and conditions of bank facilities is Weighted average hedged rate for the year 2.3% 2.3% available in note 4d. * The interest rates swaps are denominated in the same currency as the underlying debt, therefore the hedge ratio is 1:1 Maturities of financial liabilities Sensitivity analysis The tables below analyse the Group’s financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on their contractual maturities for all non-derivative At 30 April 2020, if interest rates had changed by + / 25 basis points from the year end rates, with all other variables held constant, profit after tax for the year financial liabilities and net and gross settled derivative financial instruments for which the contractual maturities are essential for an understanding of the would have been $130,000 lower/higher (2019: $128,000 lower/higher), mainly as a result of higher/lower interest expense on variable bank loans. timing of the cash flows. The amounts disclosed in the tables are the contractual undiscounted cash flows. Balances due within 12 months equal their carrying balances as the impact of discounting is not significant. For interest rate swaps, the cash flows have been estimated using forward interest rates Credit risk applicable at the end of the reporting period. Credit risk arises from cash and cash equivalents, favourable derivative financial instruments and deposits with banks and financial institutions, as well as Total Total credit exposures to domestic and export customers, including outstanding receivables. Less than Between 1 Between 2 contractual carrying Risk management 12 months and 2 years and 5 years Over 5 years cash flows amount 30 April 2020 $000's $000's $000's $000's $000's $000's Credit risk is managed on a Group basis. For banks and financial institutions, only independently rated parties with a minimum rating of Moody’s A3 or Standard & Poor’s A minus are accepted N o n der i v a t i v es unless such rating is not available in a country in which SunRice operates. Non-interest bearing 1 78,348 1,830 180,178 180,178 Variable rate 5 3,428 828 46,823 101,079 98,205 Domestic customers are assessed for credit quality, taking into account their financial position, past experience, trade references, ASIC searches and other factors. The majority of export customers trading terms are secured by letters of credit, cash against documents or documentary collection and prepayment Fixed rate 1 2,595 5,615 4,881 2,528 25,619 24,782 in accordance with the Treasury policy. Individual credit limits for both domestic and export customers are set in accordance with the limits set by the Board T o t a l n o n der i v a t i v es 2 4 4 ,3 7 1 6 ,4 4 3 5 1 ,7 0 4 4 ,3 5 8 3 0 6 ,8 7 6 3 0 3 ,1 6 5 and compliance with credit limits is regularly monitored by the Group. There are no significant concentrations of credit risk, whether through exposure to D er i v a t i v es individual customers, specific industry sectors and/or regions. Interest rate swaps net settled 294 883 1 ,1 7 7 1 ,1 7 7 For derivative financial instruments, the Group has established limits so that the portfolio of instruments held with the various financial institutions does not Foreign currency contracts gross settled create a material counterparty risk to the Group. outflow 1 64,119 164,119 598 Security (inflow) (1 6 3 ,5 2 1 ) (1 6 3 ,5 2 1 ) For some trade receivables the Group may obtain security in the form of guarantees, deeds of undertaking or letters of credit which can be called upon if the T o t a l der i v a t i v es 892 883 1,775 1,775 counterparty is in default under the terms of the agreement. Total Total Impairment of financial assets Less than Between 1 Between 2 contractual carrying Cash and cash equivalents are subject to the impairment requirements of AASB 9. However there was no identified impairment loss in the current or 12 months and 2 years and 5 years Over 5 years cash flows amount previous reporting period. 30 April 2019 $000's $000's $000's $000's $000's $000's Trade receivables for sales of goods are subject to the expected credit loss model. Further details on loss allowances recognised in the current and previous N o n der i v a t i v es reporting period are available in note 3a. Non-interest bearing 200,284 1,707 201,991 201,991 Variable rate 30,439 94,942 125,381 119,230 Liquidity risk Fixed rate 12,848 395 184 13,427 13,195 Prudent liquidity risk management implies maintaining sufficient cash and marketable securities and the availability of funding through an adequate T o t a l n o n der i v a t i v es 243,571 95,337 184 1,707 340,799 334,416 amount of committed credit facilities to meet obligations when due and to close out market positions. Due to the dynamic nature of the Group’s underlying businesses, Group Treasury maintains flexibility in funding by maintaining availability under committed credit lines. D er i v a t i v es Interest rate swaps net settled 318 581 899 899 The Group monitors rolling forecasts of the Group’s liquidity reserve (comprising the undrawn borrowing facilities disclosed on the next page) and cash and cash equivalents on the basis of expected cash flows. In addition, the Group’s liquidity management policy involves projecting cash flows in major currencies Foreign currency contracts gross settled and considering the level of liquid assets necessary to meet business needs and satisfy internal and external compliance requirements. outflow 187,247 187,247 As previously discussed, the tightening of the availability of the USD currency in PNG has affected Trukai’s ability to repay its intercompany payable. This in (inflow) (188,617) (188,617) (1,370) turn triggered an increase in the cash balance accumulated by Trukai, which increased to PGK 24,081,000 (AUD 10,500,000) at 30 April 2020 compared to T o t a l der i v a t i v es (1,370) 318 581 (471) (471) PGK 9,387,000 (AUD 3,878,000) at 30 April 2019. To maintain access to the USD currency and support its local net working capital needs, Trukai maintained a local uncommitted working capital facility of PGK 75,000,000 in the current year (see further details in note 4d). The Group continues to closely monitor economic conditions in PNG to proactively manage the liquidity risk. Potential impacts on gearing have also been discussed in note 4a. SUNRICE ANNUAL SUNRICE 2020 // 113 REPORT 2020 ANNUAL REPORT 113 SUNRICE ANNUAL REPORT SUNRICE ANNUAL 2020 // 114 REPORT 2020 114 Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements Continued Continued 4h. Fair value measurement 4j. Contingent liabilities The Group's assets and liabilities carried at fair value are mainly related to currency and interest rate derivatives. The Group had the following contingent liabilities not provided for in its financial statements at 30 April: The Group's financial instruments that are carried at fair value are valued using observable market data, as there is no price quoted in an active market for 2020 2019 the financial instruments held (level 2). The fair value of derivative financial instruments are determined based on dealer quotes for similar instruments. The $000's $000's valuation inputs are calculated in accordance with industry norms and the inputs include spot market exchange rates and published interest rates. Letters of credit 7,009 13,879 The Group does not have any financial instruments that are carried at fair value using inputs classified as level 1 inputs. Guarantees of bank advances 2,564 1,839 Only the investment property is classified as level 3, as the fair value is determined by an independent valuation. T o t a l co n t i n g en ci es 9,573 15,718 The following table presents the Group’s financial assets and liabilities measured and recognised at fair value on a recurring basis: 2020 2019 Letters of credit in both years are mainly contracted in relation to the purchase of rice in Asia. Level 2 Level 3 Total Level 2 Level 3 Total Recurring fair value measurements $000's $000's $000's $000's $000's $000's Significant estimates and judgements Provisions and contingent liabilities A s s et s Investment properties 2,900 2,900 2,900 2,900 The Group exercises judgement in measuring and recognising provisions and the exposures to contingent liabilities related to pending litigation or other outstanding claims subject to negotiated settlement, mediation, arbitration or government regulation, as well as other contingent liabilities. Derivatives used for hedging Foreign exchange contracts 1,123 1,123 1,370 1,370 Judgement is necessary in assessing the likelihood that a pending claim will succeed, or a liability will arise, and to quantify the possible range of the financial settlement. Due to the inherent uncertainty in this evaluation process, actual losses may be different from the originally estimated provisions. T o t a l a s s et s 1,123 2,900 4,023 1,370 2,900 4,270 At 30 April 2020, the Group does not expect any material adverse outcome from any open or pending cases. L i a bi l i t i es Derivatives used for hedging Foreign exchange contracts 525 525 Interest rate swaps 1 ,1 7 7 1 ,1 7 7 899 899 T o t a l l i a bi l i t i es 1,702 1,702 899 899 There were no transfer between levels for recurring fair value measurements during the year. The Directors consider the carrying amounts of other financial instruments approximate their fair value, due to either their short-term nature or being at market rates. These financial instruments include trade receivables, trade payables, bank overdrafts, bank loans and amounts payables to Riverina rice growers. 4i. Commitments Capital commitments (property, plant and equipment) 2020 2019 $000's $000's Commitments for capital expenditure contracted for at the reporting date but not recognised as liabilities 6 ,8 8 9 3,530 Non-cancellable operating lease commitments The Group leases various offices, equipment and vehicles under non-cancellable operating leases expiring within one to seven years. The leases have varying terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights. On renewal, the terms of the leases are renegotiated. The table below sets forth non-cancellable operating lease commitments that applied under the AASB 117 rules up to 30 April 2019. From 1 May 2019, the Group has recognised right-of-use assets for these leases, except for short-term and low-value leases. See note 1 for further information. 2020 2019 $000's $000's Commitments in relation to non-cancellable operating leases contracted for at the reporting date but not recognised as liabilities: Within one year 6,693 Later than one year but not later than five years 12,645 19,338 SUNRICE ANNUAL SUNRICE 2020 // 115 REPORT 2020 ANNUAL REPORT 115 SUNRICE REPORT 2020 ANNUAL REPORT SUNRICE ANNUAL 2020 // 116 116 Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements Continued Continued 5. Group Structure 5b. Investments accounted for using the equity method This section provides details of the Group structure and the entities included in the consolidated financial statements. 2020 2019 $000's $000's 5a. Investments in subsidiaries Shares in associates 2 ,9 7 8 2,821 The consolidated financial statements incorporate the assets, liabilities and results of the following subsidiaries. Information relating to the associate is set out below. Direct / indirect interest in ordinary shares / equity Ownership interest Country of 2020 2019 Name of company Principal activity 2020 2019 Name of entity Incorporation Principal activities % % Pagini Transport (incorporated in Papua New Guinea) Transport 30.44% 30.44% Australian Grain Storage Pty Ltd * Australia Grain storage assets 100 100 The associate operates on a non-coterminous year-end of 31 December. The directors believe that the financial effects of any events or transactions Rice Research Australia Pty Ltd Australia Research into rice growing 100 100 occurring since the last available financial information have not materially affected the financial position or performance of the associate. Importation / manufacturing / distribution of Riviana Foods Pty Ltd * Australia 100 100 food products Recognition and measurement Roza's Gourmet Pty Ltd Australia Manufacturing / distribution of food products 100 100 Associates Silica Resources Pty Ltd * Australia Holding company 100 100 SunRice Australia Pty Ltd Australia No current activities 100 100 Associates are all entities over which the Group has significant influence but not control or joint control. This is generally the case where the Group holds SunRice Fund Limited (ex-Bligh Funds between 20% and 50% of the voting rights. Australia No current activities 100 100 Management) Investments in associates are accounted for using the equity method of accounting. Under the equity method of accounting, the investments are initially SunRice Trading Pty Ltd Australia No current activities 100 100 recognised at cost and adjusted thereafter to recognise the Group’s share of the post-acquisition profits or losses of the investee in profit or loss, and the SunShine Rice Pty Ltd Australia No current activities 100 100 Group’s share of movements in other comprehensive income of the investee in other comprehensive income. Dividends received or receivable from Aqaba Processing Company Ltd Jordan Rice packing / storage 80 80 associates are recognised as a reduction in the carrying amount of the investment. Ricegrowers New Zealand Ltd New Zealand Distribution of rice and other food products 100 0 When the Group’s share of losses in an equity-accounted investment equals or exceeds its interest in the entity, including any other unsecured long-term Rice Industries Limited PNG Property 66.23 66.23 receivables, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the other entity. Trukai (Wholesale) Limited PNG Distribution of rice 66.23 66.23 Unrealised gains on transactions between the Group and its associates are eliminated to the extent of the Group’s interest in these entities. Unrealised Trukai Industries Limited PNG Processing and distribution of rice 66.23 66.23 losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred. Accounting policies of equity accounted Procurement and trading of rice and other food investees have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group. Ricegrowers Singapore Pte Ltd Singapore 100 100 products Solomons Rice Company Limited Solomon Islands Distribution of rice 100 100 Ricegrowers Middle East DMCC UAE Distribution of rice and other food products 100 100 SunFoods LLC USA Processing and distribution of rice 100 100 Sunshine Rice, Inc USA Holding company 100 100 Ricegrowers Vietnam Company Limited (ex-Lap Vietnam Processing of rice 100 100 Vo Dong Thap Food Company Limited) *Entities part of a Deed of Cross Guarantee that are relieved under the ASIC Corporations (Wholly-owned Companies) Instrument 2016/785 from preparing a separate financial report (see note 5c). Non-controlling interests Non-controlling interests hold 540,320 ordinary shares in Trukai Industries Ltd, being 33.77% of the ordinary issued capital of that entity. Summarised financial information for this subsidiary has been disclosed in note 5e. Non-controlling interests hold 6,000 ordinary shares in Aqaba Processing Company Limited, being 20% of the ordinary issued capital of that entity. Recognition and measurement Subsidiaries Ricegrowers Limited (“company” or “parent entity”) and its subsidiaries together are referred to in these financial statements as the Group or the consolidated entity. Subsidiaries are all entities over which the Group has control. The Group controls an entity when the Group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power to direct the activities of the entity. Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group. They are deconsolidated from the date that control ceases. Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group companies are eliminated. Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the transferred asset. Accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group. Non-controlling interests in the results and equity of subsidiaries are shown separately in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, consolidated statement of changes in equity and consolidated balance sheet respectively. SUNRICE ANNUAL SUNRICE 2020 // 117 REPORT 2020 ANNUAL REPORT 117 SUNRICE REPORT 2020 ANNUAL REPORT SUNRICE ANNUAL 2020 // 118 118 Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements Continued Continued 5c. Deed of cross guarantee Consolidated balance sheet Ricegrowers Limited, Silica Resources Pty Ltd, Riviana Foods Pty Ltd and Australian Grain Storage Pty Ltd entered into a deed of cross guarantee on 28 April Set out below is a consolidated balance sheet as at 30 April 2020 of the closed Group. 2016 under which each company guarantees the debts of the others. By entering into the deed, the wholly-owned entities have been relieved from the 2020 2019 requirement to prepare a separate financial report and Directors’ report under the ASIC Corporations (Wholly-owned Companies) Instrument 2016/785. $000's $000's Consolidated statement of comprehensive income and summary of movements in consolidated retained earnings C u r r en t a s s et s The previously mentioned companies represent a “closed Group” for the purposes of the ASIC Corporations Instrument, and as there are no other parties to Cash and cash equivalents 1 2,018 9,336 the deed of cross guarantee that are controlled by Ricegrowers Limited, they also represent the “extended closed Group”. Receivables 1 85,417 166,419 Set out below is a consolidated statement of comprehensive income and a summary of movements in consolidated retained earnings for the year ended 30 Inventories 1 65,862 276,109 April 2020 of the closed Group. Derivative financial instruments 435 1,022 2020 2019 T o t a l cu r r en t a s s et s 363,732 452,886 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income $000's $000's N o n cu r r en t a s s et s Receivables 667 Sales revenue 7 0 7 ,3 6 7 966,220 Other financial assets 33,298 11,141 Other revenue 4 7,211 25,027 Property, plant and equipment 194,643 183,585 R ev en u e f r o m c o n t i n u i n g o per a t i o n s 754,578 991,247 Investment properties 2 ,900 2,900 Other income 716 1,750 Intangibles 1 3,300 12,772 Changes in inventories of finished goods 2 ,789 (8,110) Deferred tax assets 12,397 11,036 Raw materials and consumables used (4 3 2 ,7 6 2 ) (612,611) T o t a l n o n cu r r en t a s s et s 256,538 222,101 Employee benefits expenses (1 0 7 ,3 7 6 ) (115,520) T o t a l a s s et s 620,270 674,987 Depreciation and amortisation expense (2 0 ,1 1 0 ) (16,836) Finance costs (5 ,6 2 8 ) (8,697) C u r r en t l i a bi l i t i es Other expenses (1 4 8 ,4 4 7 ) (192,763) Payables 1 12,396 119,040 P r o f i t bef o r e i n c o m e t a x 43,760 38,460 Amounts payable to Riverina Rice Growers 1 8,423 66,220 Income tax expense (5 ,1 6 3 ) (13,083) Borrowings 41,999 27,404 P r o f i t f o r t h e y ea r 38,597 25,377 Current tax liabilities 766 4,311 Provisions 2 0,405 20,027 I t em s t h a t m a y be r ec l a s s i f i ed t o t h e pr o f i t o r l o s s Derivative financial instruments 1,702 899 Changes in fair value of cash flow hedges (9 7 1 ) 1,492 T o t a l c u r r en t l i a bi l i t i es 195,691 237,901 Income tax relating to items of other comprehensive income 291 (377) N o n c u r r en t l i a bi l i t i es O t h er c o m pr eh en s i v e i n c o m e f o r t h e y ea r , n et o f t a x (6 8 0 ) 1,115 Payables 1 ,706 1,419 Borrowings 5 4,195 92,482 T o t a l c o m pr eh en s i v e i n c o m e f o r t h e y ea r 3 7 ,9 1 7 26,492 Provisions 2,439 2,195 2020 2019 T o t a l n o n c u r r en t l i a bi l i t i es 58,340 96,096 Summary of movements in consolidated retained earnings $000's $000's T o t a l l i a bi l i t i es 254,031 333,997 R epo r t ed ba l a n c e a t 1 M a y 2 0 1 ,1 5 3 194,556 N et a s s et s 366,239 340,990 Change in accounting policy adoption of AASB 16 (4 7 3 ) R es t a t ed ba l a n c e a t 1 M a y 2 0 0 ,6 8 0 194,556 E qu i t y Net profit for the year 3 8,597 25,377 Contributed equity 1 28,440 122,852 Dividends provided for or paid (1 9 ,2 1 2 ) (18,780) Reserves 1 7,734 16,985 Retained profits 220,065 201,153 B a l a n c e 3 0 A pr i l 220,065 201,153 T o t a l equ i t y 3 6 6 ,2 3 9 340,990 SUNRICE ANNUAL SUNRICE 2020 // 119 REPORT 2020 ANNUAL REPORT 119 SUNRICE ANNUAL SUNRICE ANNUAL REPORT REPORT 2020 2020 // 120 120 Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements Continued Continued 5d. Parent entity information The entities have also entered into a tax funding agreement under which the wholly-owned entities fully compensate Ricegrowers Limited for any current tax payable assumed and are compensated by Ricegrowers Limited for any current tax receivable and deferred tax assets relating to unused tax losses or unused tax credits that are transferred to Ricegrowers Limited under the tax consolidation legislation. The funding amounts are determined by reference to Summary financial information the amounts recognised in the wholly-owned entities’ financial statements. Assets or liabilities arising under the tax funding agreement with the tax The individual financial statements for the parent entity show the following aggregate amounts: consolidated entities are recognised as current amounts receivable from or payable to other entities in the Group. Any difference between the amounts 2020 2019 assumed and amounts receivable or payable under the tax funding agreement are recognised as a contribution to (or distribution from) wholly-owned tax $000's $000's consolidated entities. B a l a n ce s h eet Share-based payments Current assets 2 78,703 378,240 The grant by the company of rights over its equity instruments to the employees of subsidiary undertakings in the Group is treated as a capital contribution T o t a l a s s et s 498,496 555,706 to that subsidiary undertaking. Current liabilities 1 62,270 206,877 The fair value of employee services received, measured by reference to the grant date fair value, is recognised over the vesting period as an increase to T o t a l l i a bi l i t i es 225,082 305,681 investment in subsidiary undertakings, with a corresponding credit to equity Shareholders equity Issued capital 1 28,440 122,852 5e. Subsidiaries with material non-controlling interests Reserves General reserve 1 8 ,6 5 7 18,657 Trukai Industries Limited – Summary financial information Share-based payment reserve 2 ,5 4 2 1,196 Set out below is summarised financial information for Trukai Industries Limited. The amounts disclosed are before inter-company eliminations but after Treasury shares reserve (2 ,9 5 6 ) (2,956) homogenisation to the Group accounting policies. Hedging reserve cash flow hedges (6 0 3 ) (312) 2020 2019 Retained profits 1 27,334 110,588 $000's $000's T o t a l s h a r eh o l der s eq u i t y 273,414 250,025 B a l a n ce s h eet P r o f i t f o r t h e y ea r 3 1 ,9 2 8 13,273 Current assets 128,565 108,001 Non-current assets 40,209 31,948 T o t a l c o m pr eh en s i v e i n c o m e 3 1 ,6 3 7 14,182 Current liabilities (9 0 ,3 1 6 ) (57,709) Non-current liabilities (7 ,5 7 3 ) (2,347) Guarantees entered into by the parent entity Ca s h f l ows The parent entity has entered into cross guarantees in respect of all banking facilities, including bank borrowings, foreign exchange facilities and bank overdrafts with Riviana Foods Pty Ltd, refer to note 4d. Cash flows from operating activities 16,659 (79,961) Cash flows from investing activities (4 ,8 9 9 ) (6,642) No liabilities subject to the deed of cross guarantee at 30 April 2020 are expected to arise to Ricegrowers Limited and its subsidiaries, as all such subsidiaries Cash flows from financing activities (1 ,0 0 8 ) were financially sound and solvent at that date. Net increase / (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 10,752 (86,603) Contingent liabilities of the parent entity Significant restrictions 2020 2019 The tightening of the availability of the USD currency in PNG affected Trukai’s ability to repay its intercompany trade payable during the year (details of $000's $000's which are available in note 4g – market risk). This is turn triggered an increase in the cash balance held by Trukai (details of which are also available in note Guarantee of bank advances 2 ,2 0 4 1,479 4g – liquidity risk). This situation exposes the Group to the risk of a sudden devaluation of the PGK. T o t a l co n t i n g en ci es 2,204 1,479 It is also important to note that the PGK is a restricted currency not freely traded on currency markets. As a result, the cash balance accumulated by Trukai Industries may not always be repatriated on demand. This may result in additional borrowing cost to finance the Group’s working capital in the future and, if Contractual commitments of the parent entity for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment this amount of cash was to become unavailable for the Group, the Group’s gearing ratio (disclosed in note 4a) would materially increase compared to its current level. At 30 April 2020, the parent entity had contractual commitments for the acquisition of property, plant or equipment totaling $6,865,000 (30 April 2019: $3,024,000). These commitments are not recognised as liabilities at the end of the reporting period as the relevant assets have not yet been received. The Group continues to closely monitor economic conditions in PNG to proactively manage those risks. Recognition and measurement The financial information for the parent entity, Ricegrowers Limited, has been prepared on the same basis as the consolidated financial statements, except as set out below: Investments in subsidiaries Investments in subsidiaries are accounted for at cost in the financial statements of Ricegrowers Limited. Tax consolidation legislation Ricegrowers Limited and its wholly-owned Australian subsidiaries have implemented the tax consolidation legislation as at 1 May 2004. The head entity, Ricegrowers Limited, and the controlled entities in the tax consolidated Group account for their own current and deferred tax amounts. These tax amounts are measured as if each entity in the tax consolidated Group continues to be a stand alone taxpayer in its own right. In addition to its own current and deferred tax amounts, Ricegrowers Limited also recognises the current tax liabilities (or assets) and the deferred tax assets arising from unused tax losses and unused tax credits assumed from controlled entities in the tax consolidated Group. SUNRICE ANNUAL SUNRICE 2020 // 121 REPORT 2020 ANNUAL REPORT 121 SUNRICE ANNUAL SUNRICE ANNUAL REPORT REPORT 2020 2020 // 122 122 Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements Continued Continued 5f. Business combination 6. Other Disclosures In the prior period (on 19 September 2018), Riviana Foods Pty Ltd (a wholly owned subsidiary of Ricegrowers Limited) acquired 100% of the shares in Roza’s Gourmet Pty Ltd (RG) for a total cash consideration of $5,855,000. The assets and liabilities recognised as a result of the acquisition were as follows: 6a. Related party transactions $000's Parent entity Cash and cash equivalents 83 The ultimate parent entity and controlling party within the Group is Ricegrowers Limited. Receivables 659 Inventory 433 Subsidiaries Property, Plant and Equipment 681 Interests in subsidiaries are set out in note 5a. Brand 1,250 Payables (622) Directors and other Key Management Personnel Provisions (165) Directors and other Key Management Personnel compensation Deferred tax (293) Identifiable net assets acquired 2,026 2020 2019 Add: Goodwill 3,829 $ $ N et a s s et s a cqu i r ed 5,855 Short term employee benefits 5 ,4 3 9 ,6 2 5 4,729,222 None of the goodwill is deductible for tax purposes. Post-employment benefits 1 5 6 ,2 6 6 152,122 Share-based payments 993,399 936,800 Acquisition related costs of $150,000 were included in other expenses and operating cash flows. T o t a l c o m pen s a t i o n 6,589,290 5,818,144 The acquired business contributed revenues of $6,605,323 and net profit after tax of $150,468 to the Group for the period from 19 September 2018 to 30 April 2019. If the acquisition had occurred on 1 May 2018, contributed revenue and contributed profit after tax for the year ended 30 April 2019 would have been Detailed remuneration disclosures are provided in the remuneration report available in the Directors report. $9,750,193 and $190,961 respectively. Directors and other Key Management Personnel shareholding Details of the Directors and other Key management personnel interests in A and B Class Shares of Ricegrowers Limited, details of B Class Shares issued to Recognition and measurement Directors and their related entities pursuant to the Grower Share Purchase Plan, details of the movement in B Class Share rights held by Key Management The acquisition method of accounting is used to account for all business combinations regardless of whether equity instruments or other assets are Personnel during the reporting period and details of the number and value of B Class Share rights granted, vested and forfeited under the Long Term acquired. The consideration transferred for the acquisition comprises the: Incentive awards during the year are provided in the remuneration report available in the Directors report. • fair values of the assets transferred, Transactions with Directors and other Key Management Personnel • liabilities incurred to the former owners of the acquired business, Held at 30 April 2020 Held at 30 April 2019 $ $ • equity interest issued by the Group, Outstanding Outstanding Transactions Transactions • fair value of any asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement, and Transactions and outstanding balances Balances Balances • fair value of any pre-existing equity interest in the subsidiary. Purchases of rice from Directors 1,374,555 1,354,453 728,012 663,464 Sale of inputs to Directors 19,940 13,117 Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are, with limited exceptions, measured initially at Sale of stockfeed to Directors 66,233 their fair values at the acquisition date. Fees paid to Directors for participation on Irrigated Research and Extension 10,499 The Group recognises any non-controlling interest in the acquired entity on an acquisition-by-acquisition basis either at fair value or at the non-controlling Committee interest’s proportionate share of the acquired entity’s net identifiable assets. Consulting fees paid to Directors prior to their appointment 48,794 Acquisition related costs in business combinations are expensed as incurred. 1,404,994 1,354,453 856,156 663,464 The excess of the consideration transferred, amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquired entity and acquisition date fair value of any previous There were no transactions with other Key Management Personnel. equity interest in the acquired entity over the fair value of the Group’s share of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. If those amounts Purchases of rice from Directors were made on identical terms to purchases of rice from other growers. are less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised directly in profit and loss as a bargain purchase. Where settlement of any part of cash consideration is deferred, the amounts payable in the future are discounted to their present value as at the date of 6b. Share-based payments exchange. The discount rate used is the entity’s incremental borrowing rate, being the rate at which a similar borrowing could be obtained from an independent financier under comparable terms and conditions. Contingent consideration is classified either as equity or a financial liability. Amounts Employee Long Term Incentive Plan classified as a financial liability are subsequently remeasured to fair value with changes in fair value recognised in profit or loss. Under the Group’s Employee Long Term Incentive Plan (LTI), participants are granted rights to ordinary B Class Shares of Ricegrowers Limited. B Class Share If the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition date carrying value of the acquirer’s previously held equity interest in the acquiree is rights are granted annually and vest at the end of a three year performance period. They automatically convert into one ordinary B Class Share each on remeasured to fair value at the acquisition date. Any gains or losses arising from such remeasurement are recognised in profit or loss. vesting, aligned to the performance outcome. B Class Share rights do not entitle their holders to receive any dividends during the vesting period. If a participant ceases to be employed by the Group within the performance period, the B Class Share rights will be forfeited, except in limited circumstances that are approved by the Board on a case-by-case basis. 2020 2019 Number of B Class Share rights granted on 1 August 2019 (2019: 1 October 2018) 175,050 204,890 Fair value of B Class Share rights at grant date $3.93 $6.33 SUNRICE ANNUAL SUNRICE 2020 // 123 REPORT 2020 ANNUAL REPORT 123 SUNRICE ANNUAL SUNRICE ANNUAL REPORT REPORT 2020 2020 // 124 124 Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements Continued Continued The fair value of the B Class Share rights at grant date was estimated by taking the market price of the company’s B Class shares on that date (2020: $4.80, Employee Long Term Incentive Plan (including the Chief Executive Officer Long Term Incentive Plan) 2019: $7.20)] less the present value of expected dividends that will not be received by the participants on their B Class Share rights during the three year The fair value of B Class Share rights granted under the Ricegrowers Limited Employee Long Term Incentive Plan is recognised as an employee benefits vesting period. expense with a corresponding increase in equity. The total amount expensed is determined by reference to the fair value of the B Class Share rights granted, excluding the impact of any service and non-market performance vesting conditions (e.g. Group financial and personal targets and remaining an employee Chief Executive Officer Long Term Incentive Plan of the Group over a specified period of time). The total expense is recognised over the vesting period, which is the period over which all of the specified In the prior period, the Chief Executive Officer was granted 507,932 rights to ordinary B Class Shares of Ricegrowers Limited under the FY2019-FY2021 CEO vesting conditions are to be satisfied. Long Term Incentive Plan. Subject to vesting, each B Class Share right entitles the CEO to one B Class Share. At the end of each reporting period, the Group revises its estimates of the number of B Class Share rights that are expected to vest based on the non-market Vesting of the B Class Share rights is conditional on the Board being satisfied that the CEO has achieved the performance measures identified in the plan at vesting and service conditions. It recognises the impact of the revision to original estimates, if any, in profit or loss, with a corresponding adjustment to the end of the three year performance period from 1 May 2018 to 30 April 2021. However, the Board may, at its discretion, consider vesting prior to the end of equity. that three year performance period, if a change of control of the company occurs. In circumstances where the CEO ceases to be an employee during the Plan administration performance period as a result of death, termination by the company on the basis of redundancy or termination by or with the agreement of the company based on permanent incapacity, vesting of the CEO’s B Class Share rights will be considered on a pro rata basis to reflect the portion of the performance The Employee Share Scheme and the Employee Long Term Incentive Plan are administered by the Ricegrowers Limited Employee Share Trust, which is period which elapsed before the employment ceased. If the CEO ceases to be employed by the company for other reasons prior to the end of the consolidated in accordance with the principles detailed in note 5a. performance period, his B Class Share rights will lapse. B Class Share rights that have not vested at the end of the performance period will also lapse. 6c. Remuneration of auditors The Board selected performance measures that are consistent with the CEO’s remuneration being aligned to increasing shareholder value and growers During the reporting period, the following services were paid or payable to the auditor of the parent entity, its related practices and non-related audit firms: interests. Key performance measures are directed to the achievement of the long-term strategic plan for the Group as agreed by the Board, realising Audit services adjusted earnings per share growth, the maximisation of grower returns over the long-term, the development of the next strategic review to ensure continued growth for the organisation and driving a highly engaged workforce, with a strong performance culture focused on sustainability and succession. 2020 2019 $ $ B Class Share rights do not entitle the CEO to receive any dividends prior to vesting. 2020 2019 Fees paid to PricewaterhouseCoopers Australian firm 5 04,646 563,969 Fees paid to related practices of PricewaterhouseCoopers Australian firm 176,354 183,731 Number of B Class Share rights granted on 11 January 2019 507,932 Fees paid to non-PricewaterhouseCoopers audit firm 54,143 36,728 Fair value of B Class Share rights at grant date $4.83 T o t a l r em u n er a t i o n f o r a u di t s er v i c es 7 3 5 ,1 4 3 784,428 The fair value of the B Class Share rights at grant date was estimated by taking the market price of the company’s B Class Shares on that date ($5.70) less the Other assurance services present value of expected dividends that will not be received by the CEO on his B Class Share rights during the three year vesting period. 2020 2019 No LTI offer was made to the CEO in the current reporting period and details about a proposed new CEO LTI plan for the period from 1 May 2021 to 30 April $ $ 2024 are provided in the remuneration report available in the Directors report. Fees paid to PricewaterhouseCoopers Australian firm 3 3,000 239,800 Employee Share Scheme Fees paid to related practices of PricewaterhouseCoopers Australian firm 5 ,762 16,524 Employees who are Australian tax residents are eligible and may elect to participate in the Group’s Employee Share Scheme (ESS). Under the matching T o t a l r em u n er a t i o n f o r o t h er a s s u r a n ce s er v i ces 38,762 256,324 arrangement of the scheme, eligible employees may be granted up to $1,000 worth of fully paid ordinary B Class Shares in Ricegrowers Limited annually for Taxation services no cash consideration. B Class Shares issued under the ESS may not be sold until the earlier of three years after issue or cessation of employment by the Group. In all other respects, the B Class Shares rank equally with other fully paid ordinary B Class Shares on issue. 2020 2019 $ $ 2020 2019 Fees paid to PricewaterhouseCoopers Australian firm 6 14,132 733,897 Number of B Class Shares offered for no cash consideration under the plan to participating employees 20,534 33,337 Fees paid to related practices of PricewaterhouseCoopers Australian firm 3 3,854 36,690 Each participant was issued with B Class Shares on a market price (with no discount) of $5.72 (2019: $5.82), which was also determined as the grant date fair T o t a l r em u n er a t i o n f o r t a x a t i o n s er v i ces 647,986 770,587 value of these B Class Shares. 6d. Events occurring after the reporting period Expenses arising from share-based payment transactions Other than the declaration of a fully franked dividend of 33 cents per ordinary B Class Shares (refer to note 4a), the Directors are not aware of any matter or Total expenses arising from share-based payment transactions recognised during the period as part of employee benefit expense were as follows: circumstance, since the end of the financial year, not otherwise dealt with in this Annual Report that has significantly, or may significantly, affect the operations of the consolidated entity, the results of those operations, or the state of affairs of the consolidated entity in subsequent financial periods. 2020 2019 $000's $000's B Class Share rights granted under the Employee Long Term Incentive Plan 686 261 B Class Share rights granted under the Chief Executive Officer Long Term Incentive Plan 818 818 B Class Shares issued for no consideration under the Employee Share Scheme 117 194 T o t a l s h a r e ba s ed pa y m en t ex pen s e 1 ,6 2 1 1,273 Recognition and measurement Employee Share Scheme Under the matching arrangement of the Ricegrowers Limited Employee Share Scheme, B Class Shares are issued by the Ricegrowers Employee Share Trust to employees for no consideration and these B Class Shares vest immediately on grant date. On this date, the fair value of the B Class Shares issued is recognised as an employee benefits expense with a corresponding increase in equity. SUNRICE ANNUAL SUNRICE 2020 // 125 REPORT 2020 ANNUAL REPORT 125 SUNRICE REPORT 2020 ANNUAL REPORT SUNRICE ANNUAL 2020 // 126 126 Notes to the Financial Statements Directors’ Continued Independent Auditor's Declaration Report In the Directors’ opinion: (a) the financial statements and notes set out on pages 76 to 126 are in accordance with the Corporations Act 2001, including: i. complying with Australian Accounting Standards, the Corporations Regulations 2001 and other mandatory professional reporting requirements; and Independent auditor’s report To the members of Ricegrowers Limited ii. giving a true and fair view of the consolidated entity’s financial position as at 30 April 2020 and of its performance for the financial year ended on that date, and Report on the audit of the financial report (b) there are reasonable grounds to believe that Ricegrowers Limited will be able to pay its debts as and when they become due and payable. (c) at the date of this declaration, there are reasonable grounds to believe that the members of the extended closed Group identified in note 5c will be Our opinion able to meet any obligations or liabilities to which they are, or may become, subject by virtue of the deed of cross guarantee described in note 5c. In our opinion: Note 1 confirms that the financial statements also comply with International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the International Accounting The accompanying financial report of Ricegrowers Limited (the Company) and its controlled entities Standards Board. (together the Group) is in accordance with the Corporations Act 2001, including: The Directors have been given the declarations by the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer required by section 295A of the Corporations Act 2001. (a) giving a true and fair view of the Group's financial position as at 30 April 2020 and of its financial performance for the year then ended The declaration is made in accordance with a resolution of the Directors. (b) complying with Australian Accounting Standards and the Corporations Regulations 2001. For and on behalf of the Board. What we have audited The Group financial report comprises:  the consolidated balance sheet as at 30 April 2020  the consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended L Arthur R Gordon  the consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then ended Chairman Director  the consolidated cash flow statement for the year then ended 25 June 2020  the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies  the directors’ declaration. Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with Australian Auditing Standards. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial report section of our report. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. Independence We are independent of the Group in accordance with the auditor independence requirements of the Corporations Act 2001 and the ethical requirements of the Accounting Professional and Ethical Standards Board’s APES 110 Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (including Independence Standards) (the Code) that are relevant to our audit of the financial report in Australia. We have also fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with the Code. Our audit approach An audit is designed to provide reasonable assurance about whether the financial report is free from material misstatement. Misstatements may arise due to fraud or error. They are considered material if individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial report. PricewaterhouseCoopers, ABN 52 780 433 757 One International Towers Sydney, Watermans Quay, Barangaroo, GPO BOX 2650, SYDNEY NSW 2001 T: +61 2 8266 0000, F: +61 2 8266 9999, www.pwc.com.au Level 11, 1PSQ, 169 Macquarie Street, Parramatta NSW 2150, PO Box 1155 Parramatta NSW 2124 T: +61 2 9659 2476, F: +61 2 8266 9999, www.pwc.com.au SUNRICE ANNUAL REPORT SUNRICE ANNUAL 2020 // 127 127 REPORT 2020 Liability limited by a scheme approved under Professional Standards Legislation. SUNRICE ANNUAL REPORT 2020 / 128 Independent Auditor’s Report Continued We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial report as a whole, taking into account the geographic and management structure of the Group, its accounting processes and controls and the industry in which it operates. Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial report for the current period. The key audit matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial report as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. Further, any commentary on the outcomes of a particular audit procedure is made in that context. Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Sales revenue In obtaining sufficient, appropriate audit evidence, our (Refer to note 2b) [$1.1bn] procedures included, amongst others: Materiality The recognition of sales revenue was a key  consideration and assessment of the Group’s audit matter due to the financial accounting policy;  For the purpose of our audit we used overall Group materiality of $7.5 million, which represents significance of sales revenue to the approximately 0.65% of the Group’s revenue from continuing operations. consolidated statement of comprehensive  testing, for a sample of transactions, whether  We applied this threshold, together with qualitative considerations, to determine the scope of our income. revenue had been recorded at the correct audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of amount and in the correct financial period, in misstatements on the financial report as a whole. accordance with the Group’s revenue recognition policy. This included assessing  We chose revenue from continuing operations because, in our view, it is an appropriate benchmark whether: against which to measure the performance of the Group. We utilised a 0.65% threshold based on our o evidence of an underlying arrangement professional judgement, noting it is within the range of acceptable thresholds. with the customer existed; Audit scope o appropriate performance obligations and consideration had been identified;  Our audit focused on where the Group made subjective judgements; for example, significant o amounts allocated to the performance accounting estimates involving assumptions and inherently uncertain future events. obligations were made with reference to their standalone selling prices and  The Group comprises of entities located in Australia, Papua New Guinea (“PNG”), the United States discount/rebate arrangements, where of America (“USA”), Singapore and other locations across the Asia Pacific and the Middle East, with relevant; and the most financially significant operations being those located in Australia and PNG. Accordingly, we o the timing of revenue recognition had structured our audit as follows: been appropriately considered and o The group audit was led by our team from PwC Australia (“group audit team”). The recognised at the appropriate time group audit team completed audit procedures in respect of the special purpose financial information of businesses operating in Australia, Singapore and the USA used to  evaluating the related financial statement prepare the consolidated financial statements. disclosures for consistency with Australian o Under instruction from and on behalf of the group audit team, component auditors in Accounting Standards requirements. PNG performed an audit of the special purpose financial information for that location used to prepare the consolidated financial statements. Inventory We focused our efforts on developing an understanding (Refer to note 3b) [$277.3m] and testing the methodology for which the Group  The group audit team decided on their level of involvement needed in the work performed by the recognises and measures inventory. We considered the component auditor, to be satisfied that sufficient appropriate evidence had been obtained for the purpose of our opinion. Review of the work undertaken by the component team, and regular Inventory was a key audit matter due to appropriateness of the Group’s accounting policies to dialogue between the teams up to the reporting date, supplemented the specific direct written the: requirements of Australian Accounting Standards. instruction provided by the group audit team which augmented the reporting provided by the  financial significance of inventory component auditor. In obtaining sufficient, appropriate audit evidence, our to the consolidated balance sheet; procedures included, amongst others:  The group audit team undertook the remaining audit procedures, including over significant financial  the geographically diverse statement items controlled at the Group level, the Group consolidation and the audit of the financial  attending, observing and assessing stocktakes locations where inventory is report and remuneration report. performed by the Group at a sample of stored; and locations and performing independent test counts where appropriate; SUNRICE ANNUAL REPORT 2020 / 129 SUNRICE ANNUAL REPORT 2020 / 130 Independent Auditor’s Report Continued Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial report  the principles applied in the  reviewing the application of the Group’s cycle Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial report as a whole is free determining the valuation of count procedures; from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that inventory. includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with the Australian Auditing Standards will always detect a material  obtaining confirmations of inventories held at misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material a sample of locations; if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial report.  evaluating whether any required adjustments identified from our count attendance, cycle A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial report is located at the count procedures or confirmations were Auditing and Assurance Standards Board website at: appropriately reflected; http://www.auasb.gov.au/auditors_responsibilities/ar1.pdf. This description forms part of our auditor's report.  testing, for a sample of inventory items, whether the cost was recorded at the correct amount; Report on the remuneration report  assessing the Group’s inventory provisioning Our opinion on the remuneration report policy by comparing the prior period inventory We have audited the remuneration report included in pages 59 to 73 of the directors’ report for the provision to inventory sold below cost or year ended 30 April 2020. written off in the current period; and In our opinion, the remuneration report of Ricegrowers Limited for the year ended 30 April 2020  evaluating the related financial statement complies with section 300A of the Corporations Act 2001. disclosures for consistency with Australian Accounting Standards requirements. Responsibilities The directors of the Company are responsible for the preparation and presentation of the Other information remuneration report in accordance with section 300A of the Corporations Act 2001. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the remuneration report, based on our audit conducted in accordance with The directors are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the Australian Auditing Standards. information included in the annual report for the year ended 30 April 2020, but does not include the financial report and our auditor’s report thereon. Our opinion on the financial report does not cover the other information and accordingly we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon. In connection with our audit of the financial report, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial report or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If, based on the work we have performed on the other information that we obtained prior to the date of PricewaterhouseCoopers this auditor’s report, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard. Responsibilities of the directors for the financial report The directors of the Company are responsible for the preparation of the financial report that gives a true and fair view in accordance with Australian Accounting Standards and the Corporations Act 2001 and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of the Mark Dow Sydney financial report that gives a true and fair view and is free from material misstatement, whether due to Partner 25 June 2020 fraud or error. In preparing the financial report, the directors are responsible for assessing the ability of the Group to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Group or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so. SUNRICE ANNUAL REPORT 2020 / 131 SUNRICE ANNUAL REPORT 2020 / 132 Shareholder Information Shareholder Information Shareholder Information Continued The Shareholder Information set out below was applicable as at 23 June 2020. The continuation of the B Class Shareholding Limit is required to be approved by A Class Shareholders at SunRice’s tenth annual general meeting after Listing and at each third annual general meeting thereafter. However, any removal of or variation to the B Class Shareholding Limit will require a special Distribution of equity securities (B Class Shares only) resolution (75% majority of the votes cast) of the A Class Shareholders and of the B Class Shareholders. If the requisite voting majorities to either retain or The analysis of numbers of equity security holders by size of B Class shareholding is set out in the table below: change the B Class Shareholding Limit are not achieved, the existing 10% B Class Shareholding Limit will remain in place through the Constitution, until such time as Shareholders can agree on a new B Class Shareholding Limit. Holding Number Dual class share structure and limited voting rights 1 1000 231,089 SunRice has a dual class share structure, with B Class Shares being able to be held by investors generally and A Class Shares being limited to Active Growers. 1,001 5,000 2,159,341 This structure is designed to meet the needs of SunRice and its existing Shareholders, while giving investors exposure to the financial performance of 5,001 10,000 3,253,232 SunRice. 10,001 100,000 30,460,288 Investors in SunRice hold B Class Shares, which have limited voting rights. In particular, B Class Shares do not confer on their holders the right to vote at a 100,001 and over 23,615,980 general meeting of SunRice and will only have voting rights on matters that constitute a variation of the B Class Share class rights and as required by the ASX 59,719,930 Listing Rules. B Class Shareholders do not have the right to vote on the election of Directors or (except in relation to amendments which constitute a variation of the B Class Share class rights) on amendments to the Constitution. These matters are controlled by the A Class Shareholders. There were 17 holders of less than a marketable parcel of ordinary B Class Shares. It should be noted that the interests of A Class Shareholders are in achieving returns through Paddy Prices. The interests of B Class Shareholders are in Equity security holders (B Class Shares only) achieving dividends on B Class Shares and improvement in the market price of B Class Shares. These interests have diverged since SunRice’s dual class The names of the twenty largest holders of quoted B Class equity securities are listed below: share structure was put in place on incorporation, and the proportion of B Class Shares held by A Class Shareholders has decreased. In making any decision, the SunRice Board must have regard to its duties under the Corporations Act and the general law to act in the best interests of the SunRice Group as a Rank Shareholder No. of B Class Shares % of issued B Class Shares whole. SunRice Directors have actively managed these divergent interests for more than 10 years and the Directors believe they have demonstrated a strong track record in balancing the interests of both classes of Shareholders. In addition, the Board has adopted procedures to manage any potential conflict or 1 AUSTRALIAN FOOD & AGRICULTURE COMPANY LIMITED 2,365,086 4% divergence of interests which may arise, including delegating the decision to a committee of unconflicted Directors. These procedures are set out in the 2 LOLLYPOP CREEK PTY LTD 2,153,474 4% SunRice Conflict of Interest Policy and the Paddy Pricing Policy. Copies of both policies are available on SunRice’s website. 3 PACIFIC CUSTODIANS PTY LIMITED 998,761 2% Summary of SunRice’s non-standard elements 4 GERMANICO SUPER PTY LTD 850,035 1% The structure of Ricegrowers Limited contains non-standard elements, including: 5 DELLAPOOL NOMINEES PTY LTD 807,809 1% 6 MENEGAZZO ENTERPRISES PTY LTD 688,117 1% 1. The Company has a dual class share structure with differential voting rights: 7 MR ALAN DAVID WALSH 492,285 1% o A Class Shares, which are redeemable preference shares, confer on their holders the right to vote at general meetings of the Company. A Class 8 AMBO FARMS PTY LTD 444,279 1% Shareholders have no right to dividends or distributions, other than the right to be repaid the amount paid up on the A Class Shares on 9 TAURIAN PTY LTD 402,529 1% redemption or a winding up of the Company. A Class Shares are not quoted on the ASX and can only be held by Active Growers. 10 INDUSTRY DESIGNS PTY LTD 381,790 1% o B Class Shares, which are quoted on ASX, confer on their holders the right to receive dividends but no right to vote at general meetings. The right 11 NIGEL GEOFFREY LAMOND & KATHARINE JANET LAMOND 379,631 1% of B Class Shareholders to vote on matters relating to the Company is limited to proposals involving a variation to their class rights (including 12 FRANK ANTHONY DAL BON & JAN BRONWEN DAL BON 350,548 1% those matters deemed to vary their class rights under the Company’s Constitution) and as required for the purposes of the ASX Listing Rules. 13 OJ MINATO PTY LTD 335,795 1% 2. The Company’s Constitution imposes the following shareholding limits on A Class Shares and B Class Shares: 14 NEIIL WILLIAM ROSE & BEVERLEY EDNA ROSE 328,413 1% o A Class Shareholding Limit: a person must not hold more than 5 A Class Shares. 15 GF & SB LAWSON PTY LTD 327,139 1% 16 AQUARIAN SUPER PTY LTD 322,860 1% o B Class Shareholding Limit: a person must not hold a number of B Class Shares which, when aggregated with any B Class Shares held by all 17 FS FALKINER & SONS PTY LTD 300,170 1% associates of that person, exceeds 10% of the total number of issued B Class Shares. 18 YARRANVALE ESTATES PTY LTD 295,294 0% 3. Under the Company’s Constitution, the board of directors of the Company can include up to 11 directors, comprising: 19 PETER SALVESTRO LANDFORMING PTY LTD 280,818 0% o up to three Grower Directors who are elected members of the Rice Marketing Board for the State of New South Wales (RMB). These directors will 20 DENNIS MURRAY GLEESON, AMANDA JANE GLEESON & JUDITH KA 258,616 0% hold office for the same period as their term of office as elected members of the RMB; 12,763,449 21% o up to four other Grower Directors. These directors will hold office for four years or such other periods as the A Class Shareholders may determine *Shareholdings related to KMP including Directors are detailed in the Remuneration Report. in a general meeting; and The above table reflects the shareholdings of individual entities in their own right. o up to four Non-Grower Directors, one of whom may be an employee of the Company. These directors will hold office for such term as the A Class Shareholders may determine in general meeting, except that the managing director is not subject to the retirement requirements of the Substantial holders (B Class Shares only) Constitution. There are currently no substantial B Class shareholders in the company. Under the Ricegrowers Limited Constitution, a B Class Shareholding Limit restricts a person (together with their associates) from holding more than 10% of the total number of B Class Shares on issue. In this context, a person will be deemed to “hold” a B Class Share if they have a relevant interest in that Share. If a person acquires B Class Shares in excess of the B Class Shareholding Limit, all rights (including voting and dividend rights) of that person in respect of the excess B Class Shares will be suspended, and the Directors may procure the disposal of the excess B Class Shares. SUNRICEANNUAL SUNRICE 2020 // 133 REPORT 2020 ANNUALREPORT 133 SUNRICEANNUAL SUNRICE REPORT 2020 ANNUALREPORT 134 2020 // 134 Corporate Directory Corporate Directory SunRice Registered Office Ricegrowers Vietnam Company Corporate 57 Yanco Avenue, Limited Management Team Leeton, NSW, 2705 Tan An Hamlet Binh Thanh Trung Commune Rob Gordon Australia Lap Vo District Dong Thap Province Chief Executive Officer Tel +61 2 6953 0411 Vietnam Dimitri Courtelis Subsidiaries +84 88 922 7700 Chief Financial Officer Riviana Foods Pty Ltd Ricegrowers New Zealand Ltd Level 1, Tower 1, Stephen Forde Private Bag 92518 1341 Dandenong Road, Chief Executive Officer, Riviana Foods Pty Ltd Wellesley Street Auckland 1141 Chadstone, VIC, 3148 New Zealand Tom Howard Australia General Manager, Global Operations, Tel +61 3 8567 1000 Aqaba Processing Company Origination and Agribusiness Aqaba Special Economic Zone Roza’s Gourmet Pty Ltd Southern Seashore Aqaba David Keldie 2/87 Jijaws Street Tel +962 3 201 4285 General Manager, Global Consumer Markets This page has been left intentionally blank Sumner Park QLD 4074 Australia Directors Paul T Parker Tel +61 300 667 357 General Manager, People and Culture Laurie Arthur Australian Grain Storage Pty Ltd Chairman Peter McKinney 57 Yanco Avenue Non-executive Director – Grower General Manager, CopRice Leeton NSW 2705 Rob Gordon Australia Matt Alonso Chief Executive Officer Tel +61 2 6953 0411 Chief Executive Officer, SunFoods LLC Executive Director – Non-Grower Rice Research Australia Pty Ltd Greg Worthington-Eyre Luisa Catanzaro 57 Yanco Avenue Chief Executive Officer, Trukai Industries Ltd Non-executive Independent Director – NonLeeton NSW 2705 Grower Auditor Australia Tel +61 3 5886 1391 Ian Glasson PricewaterhouseCoopers Non-executive Independent Director – NonOne International Towers Trukai Industries Limited Grower Watermans Quay Mataram Street, Lae, MP 411 Barangaroo, NSW 2000 Andrew Crane Australia Papua New Guinea Non-executive Independent Director – NonTel +675 472 2466 Grower Share Registry Solomons Rice Company Limited Gillian Kirkup Link Market Services Limited Trading as SolRice Non-executive Director – Grower (Elected Locked Bag A14 Ranadi, Honiara RMB Director) Sydney South, NSW 1235 Solomon Islands Australia Tel +677 30826 John Bradford Tel +61 1300 554 474 Non-executive Director – Grower (Elected SunFoods LLC RMB Director) Notice of Annual 1620 E. Kentucky Avenue Woodland Ian Mason General Meeting California, USA Non-executive Director – Grower (Elected The annual general meeting of Ricegrowers Tel +1 530 661 1923 RMB Director) Limited will be held at the Jerilderie Civic Hall, 33 Jerilderie Street, Jerilderie, and Ricegrowers Singapore Pte Ltd Jeremy Morton virtually, with registration commencing at 47A/B Duxton Road Non-executive Director – Grower 9.30am on Friday 28 August 2020. Singapore 089511 Tel +65 6904 5633 Julian Zanatta Stock Exchange Listing Non-executive Director – Grower Ricegrowers Middle East DMCC Ricegrowers Limited’s B Class Shares are Dr Leigh Vial listed on the Australian Securities Unit 25 F&G, Level 25, Almas Tower Non-executive Director – Grower Exchange (ASX) – code SGLLV. Jumeirah Lake Tower Dubai, UAE Tel +971 4458 5480 Company Secretary Website www.sunrice.com.au Mandy Del Gigante SUNRICE SUNRICE ANNUAL ANNUAL REPORT REPORT 2020 135 2020 // 135 SUNRICE ANNUAL REPORT 2020 / 136 www.sunrice.com.au SUNRICE ANNUAL REPORT 2020 / 136
