TREASURY WINE ESTATES LIMITED 2020 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PRINCIPLES SUMMARY OF ACTIONS 2020 PAGE REF. HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1 Maintained a policy framework designed to protect human rights, including 6–7, 9–11 Protection of Code of Conduct and Whistleblower, New Market Entry, and Workplace Health, human rights Safety and Wellbeing Policies. Continued to embed human rights roadmap which details how TWE plans to 29–30 Principle 2 enhance its response to potential and actual human rights and labour impacts No complicity within its operations and supply chain. in human Conducted a Human Rights Impact Assessment (HRIA) across TWE operations 30 rights abuse and launched a Human Rights Business Charter. Maintained reporting to the Board via the Audit and Risk Committee 6, 30 on matters that have been raised through the whistleblower process. Maintained Human Resources assistance channels across four operating 23–27 regions with matters being investigated and resolved through TWE’s People and Capability function. Continued to commit suppliers to uphold human rights through the Responsible 30 Procurement Code (RPC). Implemented supplier onboarding and risk assessment system, that facilitates 30 that ability for TWE to assess risk associated with suppliers. LABOUR Principle 3 Upheld the right to freedom of association of TWE people. 30 Freedom of association and Recognise the right to collective bargaining. 30 right to collective Committed suppliers to uphold freedom of association and collective bargaining 30 bargaining rights through the RPC. Principle 4 Adhered to local laws and regulations. 29 Elimination of forced and Maintained a policy framework designed to prevent and protect against the 30 compulsory labour use of forced and child labour within TWE operations and its supply chain, including the RPC and Global Payroll, Employing and Engaging Minors, and Whistleblower Policies. Principle 5 Abolition of Implemented supplier onboarding and risk assessment system, that facilitates 30 child labour that ability for TWE to assess risk associated with suppliers. Principle 6 Maintained a policy framework that encourages diversity and inclusion among 7, 10, 26–28 Elimination of TWE people, which is designed to prevent and protect against discrimination, discrimination harassment and bullying. The Executive Leadership Team, including the Chief Executive Officer, 26 continued to support the achievement of diversity and inclusion measures and targets as part of their annual key performance objectives. Committed to 50% women in leadership roles by 2025. 27 Development of Leadership Framework and programs designed to create 25 a high performing, culturally rich and diverse organisation. Launch of TWE DNA and the Managing People at Treasury program. 25 1 | TREASURY WINE ESTATES LIMITED 2020 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS TREASURY WINE ESTATES LIMITED 2020 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PRINCIPLES SUMMARY OF ACTIONS 2020 PAGE REF. ENVIRONMENT Principle 7 Continued to drive improved environmental performance and measurement 7, 15 Precautionary through the Sustainable Future program. approach to environmental Maintained a record of zero incidents, fines or penalties related to breaches 5 challenges of environmental regulations. Introduced Global Packaging Guidelines with ambitious targets. 5, 14, 20 Reduced water, energy and emissions across TWE business. 5, 17–19 Principle 8 Maintained critical global sustainability certifications and in addition acquired 15 Environmental Haute Valeur Environnementale (HVE) for TWE’s French vineyard. responsibility Supported local community through fundraising and charitable donations 31 to support recovery post bushfires. Implemented conservation and rehabilitation projects across our New Zealand 15, 17 and Australian operations. Identified several best practices through the Sustainable Future program, 15–21 which were shared across the Company’s supply and non-supply network. Assessed and optimised selected glass, plastic and cardboard product packaging 35–36 through light weighting. Continued to progress our Taskforce for Climate Related Financial Disclosures 6, 9, 12 (TCFD) Roadmap. Commenced work on Climate Scenario Analysis (CSA) as part of our 6, 12, 16 TCFD Roadmap. Principle 9 Invested in water, energy and waste efficient technology and processes 16–21 Environmentally for vineyards, wineries and packaging centres. friendly technologies Deployed drone technology to complement existing aerial imagery at selected 19 vineyards to easily and accurately locate zones of water stress, leaks and soil variation. Continued to install pulse cooling infrastructure across winery and packaging 19 networks to conserve water and/or energy. Implemented fluidised bed cold stabilisation technology. ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10 Complied with the third edition of the ASX Corporate Governance Principles 10 Work against and Recommendations. corruption Maintained a policy framework that supports TWE’s commitment to a zero 10, 30 tolerance approach to bribery and corruption, including the Code of Conduct and Whistleblower, Share Trading, Anti-bribery and Corruption, Gifts, and Entertainment and Unacceptable Payments Policies. Strengthened Legal and IP online training module and Personal Data Policy. 10 Maintained reporting to the Board via the Audit and Risk Committee on 30 matters that have been raised through the whistleblower process. 2 | TREASURY WINE ESTATES LIMITED 2020 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS
