Sustainability Report 2019 Contents 01 How we came here CEO’s greetings 5 We are Framery 6 Highlights and challenges 9 02 Sustainability at Framery Our sustainability work 11 Economic value creation 16 Social responsibility 22 Environmental efficiency 30 03 Reporting principles How our report was created 38 HOW WE SUSTAINABILITY ECONOMIC SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING 3 CAME HERE AT FRAMERY VALUE CREATION RESPONSIBILITY EFFICIENCY PRINCIPLES About this report This is our first sustainability report. Our aim is to show our progress and work on sustainability, as well as our management approaches that back up our three focus areas: economic value creation, social responsibility and environmental efficiency. The report has been compiled according to the Global Reporting Initiative Standards: Core option. The GRI is the world’s most widely used responsibility reporting framework. You can find the GRI Standards index at the end of this report. 01 HOW WE SUSTAINABILITY ECONOMIC SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING 4 CAME HERE AT FRAMERY VALUE CREATION RESPONSIBILITY EFFICIENCY PRINCIPLES How we came here CEO’S GREETINGS 5 WE ARE FRAMERY 6 HIGHLIGHTS AND CHALLENGES 9 Sustainability Report 2019 HOW WE SUSTAINABILITY ECONOMIC SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING 5 CAME HERE AT FRAMERY VALUE CREATION RESPONSIBILITY EFFICIENCY PRINCIPLES CEO’s greetings Sustainability has always been an integral part of the way we work. It is a part of our values and represents an important message that we want to convey to everyone we work with. However, we also recognize that simple words are not enough — we need to show too, that we walk the talk. Coding our DNA into our about 330 people in just nine years. sustainability processes I am happy to say that we have succeedWe can be proud of the fact that there ed in doing this in a sustainable manner. has been a clear call from our employWe wish to continue our growth-path ees to make our daily sustainability and move from a tight-knit family into choices even more evident to all our a well-functioning power team. stakeholders. This, our first sustainabilIn order to continue as a viable comity report, is therefore a perfect way to pany, we still need to put more pressure put our actions into words. on our supply chain and create more In 2019, we took our first steps in ways to work according to circular econmaking sustainability an official part of omy principles. I believe we still have our processes, projects and our manmany global achievements ahead of us. agement systems. Through this report, And … dear employees, customers we hope that all our employees and and investors, please use our report inpartners can get a better grip on our formation in your work and ask us for concrete sustainability work achieved more information. We want to better to date and on our target state as the understand your needs and requests world’s best producer of pods and with regards to our sustainability work. office phone booths. Let´s create together a phone booth business that makes the world happier! Sustainability in a fast-growing company We have grown from a start-up of two people into a global market-leader of HOW WE SUSTAINABILITY ECONOMIC SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING 6 CAME HERE AT FRAMERY VALUE CREATION RESPONSIBILITY EFFICIENCY PRINCIPLES We are Framery Framery is the pioneer and the world’s leading manufacturer of pods, phone booths and soundproof private spaces for solving noise and privacy issues in the offices. Our products make employees happier and more productive in the offices of dozens of the world’s leading companies, including Microsoft, Puma and L’Oréal. In fact, 40% of all ‘Forbes 100’ companies use Framery. Today, our end-customers can be found in all inhabited continents. Framery is one of the fastest growing companies in Europe and the fastest growing in the whole Nordic region. In 2019 our revenue was EUR 106 million euros. In 2019 the next three years growth is expected to continue rapidly. Today, we are 330 people working in 13 countries. Our headquarters are in Tampere, Finland, where 90% percent of us work. With a strong focus on research and a commitment to practice what we preach inside our own company, we are determined to find keys to overall work-life happiness – in a sustainable manner. HOW WE SUSTAINABILITY ECONOMIC SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING 7 CAME HERE AT FRAMERY VALUE CREATION RESPONSIBILITY EFFICIENCY PRINCIPLES WE ARE FRAMERY Our journey 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2010 2014 Framery is founded 2013 2 2012 employees Revenue: 2011 €12.8K 4 4 6 9 17 78 175 229 320 employees employees employees employees employees employees employees employees employees Revenue: First deliveries First Revenue: Win Framery Q Win Equity investor Vaaka Win €157K to Sweden and deliveries €1.26M Best of NeoCon: The Internationalization Partners buys the Financial Times: Denmark to the USA Gold Award for Revenue: award of the President majority of Framery 1000 Europe’s Framery O €17.6M of Republic of Finland Framery products sold to fastest growing Revenue: Framery O all inhabited continents companies – €567K Revenue: Revenue: Framery was ranked Revenue: €5.1M €39.9M Framery 2Q 20th €592K Revenue: Revenue: €63.5M €106M HOW WE SUSTAINABILITY ECONOMIC SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING 8 CAME HERE AT FRAMERY VALUE CREATION RESPONSIBILITY EFFICIENCY PRINCIPLES WE ARE FRAMERY 99% of the Framery value chain purchasing volume comes from the EU and of this, over 50% ALUMINUM from Finland. AND STEEL ACOUSTIC FOAM FABRICS Supply chain Tampere HQ Distribution GLASS Production Dealers Customers over 80 suppliers to 78 countries Packaging FSC AND PEFC CERTIFIED PLYWOOD Our new wooden boxes for packaging save transportation space and materials used. Did you know? We have a logistics center in been a smart way to decrease our emissions Michigan, USA together with a partner to make since we need to ship our products by air less deliveries more smooth in the US. This has also than before. Ships rule! HOW WE SUSTAINABILITY ECONOMIC SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING 9 CAME HERE AT FRAMERY VALUE CREATION RESPONSIBILITY EFFICIENCY PRINCIPLES Highlights and challenges CHALLENGES HIGHLIGHTS It’s now or never Since we have just started out on our “official sustainability” path, we have only recently understood that there have been a few low-hanging fruits that we should have been able to tackle earlier. One example of this relates to We made it official! Employee wellbeing Chipping in for Basking in our newly implemented Framery Sustainability in focus a children’s hospital solar power plan to collect comprehensive data on our CO2 The year 2019 was a lot about From September to December Every year, Framery chooses In 2019, Framery made a emissions and energy making sustainability more 2019, we paid extra-special a campaign or a fundraiser to contract with Tampreen consumption so we can visible in all our processes. attention to the wellbeing of support. Last fall, we came across Sähkölaitos. Tampereen offer new ways to miniOne example of this is that we our employees. During those the Tampere Children’s Hospital Sähkölaitos is an energy mize our global footprint collected all the information on months, Framerians had the Support Foundation which has group that produces Finnish and increase our handour mission, vision and culture, opportunity to e.g. try out actively been raising funds for energy and develops energy print. We are also looking and published it in our Culture CrossFit, ice swimming or to the Tampere University Hospital, solutions. For the next five forward to starting better Handbook. take part in a group that focused and particularly its children’s years, Framery will rent 60 discussions with our supOn the environmental side, on achieving better sleep. section. Framery’s O and Q pods sun panels, as well have ply chain. Furthermore, as 2019 was all about creating were placed in the Child and a guarantee of origin for in sustainability foremore robust projects and proRead more on page 26. Adolescent Psychiatry, Paediaric renewable energy. We are runners in our market, we cesses. We also increased our Haematology and Oncology secproud to say that we are hope to also inspire other knowledge on our product’s tions of the hospital to increase running on 100% renewable businesses to consequently entire life-cycle and our emispersonal privacy and safe spaces electricity! walk the talk. sions across all scopes. for sensitive discussions. Read more on page 21. 02 HOW WE SUSTAINABILITY ECONOMIC SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING 10 CAME HERE AT FRAMERY VALUE CREATION RESPONSIBILITY EFFICIENCY PRINCIPLES Sustainability at Framery OUR SUSTAINABILITY WORK 11 ECONOMIC VALUE CREATION 16 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 22 ENVIRONMENTAL EFFICIENCY 30 Sustainability Report 2019 HOW WE SUSTAINABILITY ECONOMIC SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING 11 CAME HERE AT FRAMERY VALUE CREATION RESPONSIBILITY EFFICIENCY PRINCIPLES We constantly Our sustainability In addition, Framery is a member of seek to make our BIFMA, a not-for-profit trade association for business and institutional footprint smaller work furniture manufacturers, FEMB, the and handprint European Office Furniture Federation, Kasvuryhmä Suomi ry, an organization bigger to be sure that brings together the most ambitious we are not just scaleups in Finland, as well as Tampere Chamber of Commerce and Industry, creating happiness a leading business organization in the today, but Tampere Region. happiness also for Our most material topics future generations. In order to report and focus on the right issues in our sustainability work, we have conducted several surveys with our stakeholders. In 2019, we held We have always had responsible people the people that fall within our operaa workshop for the key management working for us and we believe that our tions, as well as our global customers. and conducted surveys for our dealers, choices and actions as a company have We aim to make three million people architects, customers, competitors and been reasonable and fair. However, we happier with our pods and we provide employees. According to this workshop have now understood the link between thousands of workplaces, directly and and the surveys our most material corporate sustainability and the need to indirectly. On the other hand, we also topics are: report on our most material questions use mother earth´s valuable offerings in an open and transparent way to all in our products. We constantly seek to • Occupational health and safety our stakeholders. make our footprint smaller and hand• Job satisfaction print bigger to be sure we are not just • Sustainable materials that last Our role in a sustainable world creating happiness today, but happiness • Energy and emissions We understand the serious environalso for future generations. • Certifications and standards mental and social threats we are all • Customer satisfaction facing, globally. These critical challenges Memberships in association include climate change, resource Since 2018, Framery has been committed Based on these results, we have scarcity, loss of biodiversity and the to the United Nations Global Compact created our own sustainability agenda ever-changing work-life challenges. corporate responsibility initiative and and grouped these topics into three We realize that Framery has both its principles in the areas of human focus areas. In addition, we have a positive and negative impact on the rights, labor, the environment and also included other relevant topics to environment and that we also impact anti-corruption. ensurea sustainable future for Framery. HOW WE SUSTAINABILITY ECONOMIC SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING 12 CAME HERE AT FRAMERY VALUE CREATION RESPONSIBILITY EFFICIENCY PRINCIPLES Our sustainability agenda An agenda that addresses eight topics identified as material to us. Economic Social Environmental value creation responsibility efficiency Customers The Framerian culture Materials Investors Employees and the Circular economy wider workforce Society Energy and greenhouse gas emissions HOW WE SUSTAINABILITY ECONOMIC SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING 13 CAME HERE AT FRAMERY VALUE CREATION RESPONSIBILITY EFFICIENCY PRINCIPLES Our management approach Our guidelines and policies steer our sustainability work in the right direction. Find out more how we lead each of our focus areas below: Employees and the Circular Energy and greenCustomers Investors Society The Framerian culture Materials wider workforce economy house gas emissions Culture Handbook, Culture Handbook, Culture Handbook, Culture Handbook, Vaaka Partner’s Code of Conduct, Code of Conduct, Code of Conduct, Environmental Policy, Code of Conduct, Policies Code of Conduct ESG policy Supplier Code of Supplier Code of Supplier Code of Supplier Code of Conduct Conduct Conduct Conduct UN Global Compact, UN SDG’s 12,13,15, ISO 14001. We are committed to continuously improving our environmental performance, taking the whole life-cycle into UN Global Compact UN Global Compact consideration. Products designed based on sustainable, UN Global Compact, UN Global Compact, UN Global Compact, Commitments (Anti-corruption), UN (Labor), UN SDG’s healthy materials, long lifetime, modularity, recyclability. UN SDG 3, 12 UN SDG 16 UN SDG 3, 8 SDG 16 3, 5, 8 Improved processes to reduce energy and material use, emissions and environmental risks. We commit to minimizing our footprint and maximizing our handprint. Our purpose is to offer our customer’s employees better workday Increased efficiency Conduct our concentration, collaboration and at work. Reduction business ethically. Our vision is that We are committed Offering Reduce the recovery, leading to lowered stress of sick leave and Our employees live Framery offers Increase the mato creating sustaincircular soluamount of GHG Goals and targets levels and improved efficiency. healthcare cost. We by our values. Our hundreds of peoterial efficiency in able value for our tions for our emissions in Our vision via our products is to create jobs in our suppliers follow the ple provenly the our supply chain. investors. customers. our operations. make three million people happier supply chain and Supplier Code of best place to work. by the year 2022. pay taxes. Conduct. Management team, Head Management team, of Sales, Head of Product, Management team, Management team, Head of People & Responsibilities, Product and offering Steering CEO, board meetings Sustainability Sustainability Culture. HR team, Management team, Sustainability Steering Group Resources Group, Future Steering Steering Group Steering Group team leaders, OHS Group committee HOW WE SUSTAINABILITY ECONOMIC SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING 14 CAME HERE AT FRAMERY VALUE CREATION RESPONSIBILITY EFFICIENCY PRINCIPLES Employees and the Circular Energy and greenCustomers Investors Society The Framerian culture Materials wider workforce economy house gas emissions Flat hierarchy and instant feedback face-to-face. Utilizing QR code in booths for Close relationships our Impraise program feedback. Contact via and open commuenabling feedback bewww-pages Contact via nication with our tween people online. (sustainability@ www-pages suppliers. Strategic HSEQ Online program for environmental observation Regular board Intranet improveGrievance mechanisms frameryacoustics.com) (sustainability@ purchasers and and incident reporting. Contact via www-pages meetings ment ideas feedback Contact with global sales frameryacoustics quality engineers (sustainability@frameryacoustics.com) system. Happiness team members. Normal .com) in dialogue with insurance process. claim processes. suppliers. HSEQ Online for occupational health and safety incidents and observations. Joint study with Firstbeat measuring stress levels before and after users have experienced a Starting to Framery pod. Results indicate pilot Framery that employees experience Starting Subscribed. recovery while working and collaboration with Packaging develCircular taking breaks in Framery pods. Code of Conduct, local electricity Collaboration with opment project Economy Also, happier due to lower stress culture handbook utility company in schools and univerfor increased maIntegration levels. Conducted extensive Annual ESG review including our order to obtain sities. Collaboration terial efficiency. in the Nordic Specific actions; marketing research. Recruited at board meeting. values and Supplier Supervisor trainsolar electricity with local activity Starting the cirIndustry for Projects, processes, 21 new salespersons globally Decision to start Code of Conduct ings, Wellbeing from their solar center. Annual culation of metal enhanced programs, initiatives and implemented our 4-wheel publishing annual released. Over 90% months panel park. charity donation to pallets between sustainability drive sales approach. Dealer sustainability report. of suppliers signed Kilometri-kisa Tampere children’s suppliers instead and competiportal was taken in more widely. the Supplier Code of encouraging hospital. of disposable tiveness Salesforce CRM-system was Conduct. employees to cycle wooden pallets. (CIRCit) taken in use. New September to work instead of research product release including using private cars. project improvements and new features participation. for our products. Environmental Product Declarations (EPD) published. Defined in our Code of Conduct our Further developed internal Created the Code of Created a writtenConducted assessment of environmental risks and First sustainability approach to charity, and external processes. Conduct in 2019. In down policy for our ISO 14001 external audits were conducted. Internal audits, report for investors donations and politMajor 2020 renewal and 2020, will create and employees in 2019. incident reports, supplier audits were conducted regularly How did we do? in 2019. Developing ical activity. Decision relaunch of dealer portal implement antiWill make it a part throughout 2019. Building our Design for Environment (DfE) the report further in to systematically seand creation of sales corruption training of our everyday in R&D process even more robustly in 2020. 2020. lect and support only e-learning training. for our employees. practices in 2020. one bigger charity cause per year. HOW WE SUSTAINABILITY ECONOMIC SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING 15 CAME HERE AT FRAMERY VALUE CREATION RESPONSIBILITY EFFICIENCY PRINCIPLES Our stakeholder engagement We believe that only a happy Framerian can make our customers more happy. This can only be ensured through respecting, listening to and understanding our other stakeholders, since we are all in a continuous chain of actions and reactions. This is how we engaged with our stakeholders in 2019. Stakeholder group Expectations and needs How we responded Improving our management system, going through a safety review, launching a training and perHappiness, safety, complying with agreements, maintaining jobs, ITsecurity, sonnel plan, taking care of occupational health, cooperation with pension insurance companies, Employees and the wider workforce equality and welfare at work, career development and feedback, personal following labor unions' demands, continuing our Happiness insurance, providing lunch, and sport growth, job satisfaction, equitable salary. & culture benefits. Enhancing our management system work, certificates, adding informative labels to our products, Top-notch product features, safety, quality, responsibility and sustainability, Customers communication, enhancing eco-efficiency in our material design, effective customer service and construction rules, specifications, information on the products. claim handling system, product quality improvement -projects. Open communication, product quality improvement -projects, customer service for suppliers, Suppliers Reliable relationship, on-time payment, ability to forecast, accuracy of specification. supplier audits. Safety, quality, responsibility and sustainability, construction rules, specifiAdjusting our management system work, certificates, adding informative labels to our products, Dealers & partners cations, informative labels, safety when assembling, knowing delivery and open communication, enhancing eco-efficiency in our material design, having certified asseminstallation times, having support and a reliable relationship. bling partners, precise requirement surveys, effective claim handling systems. Owners, board & financiers Responsible action, profitability, long-term growth Open communication, board ESG review Creating and following a global PR strategy that holds different themes within thought leadership, product placement and companywide news. Active Proactive media work towards all relevant media in our field of business as well as in the business Media approach seeking new editorial opportunities with strategic themes, collabomedia. Keeping website and social media channels up to date. rations with major influencers in design industry and submitting Framery or its products to relevant design award programs. Training and thesis positions, employment opportunities, research subjects, Training and thesis positions available, apprenticeship positions, hosting factory visits, Universities lecturers, excursion possibilities. participating in career events. Obeying the laws, offering employment possibilities, approvals on product Authorities Open communication safety, accuracy of reporting. HOW WE SUSTAINABILITY ECONOMIC SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING 16 CAME HERE AT FRAMERY VALUE CREATION RESPONSIBILITY EFFICIENCY PRINCIPLES Economic value creation CUSTOMERS 19 INVESTORS 20 SOCIETY 21 Sustainability Report 2019 HOW WE SUSTAINABILITY ECONOMIC SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING 17 CAME HERE AT FRAMERY VALUE CREATION RESPONSIBILITY EFFICIENCY PRINCIPLES Economic value creation Framery has been able to become the pioneer and trendsetter in its field by creating a completely new global market for pods and office phone booths. In 2019, our turnover was MEUR 106. With our strong growth we can also support society, create a better working environment for our customers and accumulate sustainable growth for our investor’s portfolios. A fast-growing pioneer the year. In 2019, our revenues were Framery has led the emerging market EUR 106 million. This result means that of open office noise solutions, growing we have grown 8312,7% during the last organically from EUR 1 million to over five years. EUR 106 million during the last five years. Despite more than 100 direct Our key solutions to growth competitors entering the field during What´s our secret to sustainable growth? this time, Framery has been successful Well, simply, we don’t engage in any in further strengthening its position as funny business. We pay our taxes fair the global market leader. At the same and square; we do honest deals with our time, we have managed to create a partners and dealers; we pay fair wages product that makes people happy all and we offer our customers the best over the world. possible product. Furthermore, we have In 20th place, Framery is the highest continued to keep all our production at ranked Nordic company in the FT1000. our Tampere headquarters in Finland. The FT1000 is compiled by the Financial This way, we can support our local Times and Statista, ranking the European community by offering jobs in our home businesses that achieved the highest anmunicipality of Pirkanmaa. nual net sales growth between 2014-2017. We set ambitious growth targets for Biggest turnovers come from exports 2019. We were already able to achieve Over 90% of our turnover comes from these goals during the third quarter of exports. We have a large network HOW WE SUSTAINABILITY ECONOMIC SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING 18 CAME HERE AT FRAMERY VALUE CREATION RESPONSIBILITY EFFICIENCY PRINCIPLES Net Sales, MEUR of distributors taking our products to No end justifies our dealers in 73 countries. We want to maintain a good relationship with all our the means, and suppliers and dealers and remind them that’s why we about our sustainability needs through have a zeroour Supplier Code of Conduct. Currently, 98% of our suppliers have signed the tolerance policy Code. In addition, we do not support any on corruption. monopoly dealer arrangements in any country. In order to make sure that we have both functional and rapid deliveries to the United States, in 2019, we started a new logistics hub in Michigan, together with a partner. This way, we can offer our customers fast deliveries, as well as minimize our carbon footprint, since we can now ship large deliveries of pods without using cross-continental flights. 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Read more about our environmental 5,1 17,6 39,9 63,5 106,0 work on page 30. Zero tolerance for corruption No end justifies the means, and that’s why we have a zero-tolerance policy on corruption. The biggest risks regarding corruption can occur when working with our suppliers and dealers. To that end, we make sure supplier contracts are clear and the suppliers’ responsibilities are evident. In addition, we have set clear in-house rules on who can sign our major contracts. This way we can also minimize the risks of exploitation and bribery. There were no incidents of corruption recorded during 2019, nor indeed have there been any since our founding in 2010. HOW WE SUSTAINABILITY ECONOMIC SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING 19 CAME HERE AT FRAMERY VALUE CREATION RESPONSIBILITY EFFICIENCY PRINCIPLES Customers Daily, nearly 50,000 booths and pods Sky-high growth in turnover serve our over 4000 end-customers, In 2019, we had two targets when it came contributing to their wellbeing all to our customers and sales. The first target the way from usability and acoustics, aimed at growing our turnover from EUR to aesthetics and sustainability. Many 63 million to EUR 87 million. This target of the world’s leading companies use was reached in November and we achieved our products to help make their people EUR 106 million by the end of the year. happier and to save time, space and Our second target was to reinforce our money. Around 40% of all ‘Forbes 100’ sales team. This was also achieved. In addicompanies use Framery products, intion, a new sales strategy was created and cluding Microsoft, Puma and L’Oréal. successfully implemented. Furthermore, a new CRM tool was taken into use, helping Sustainability is not all about us to keep in constant contact with our how we do it but why we do it customers and our authorized dealers. How often have you had to take a private phone call in the bathroom, or More impact, more happiness occupied a conference room on your We collect feedback from our customers own just to take a phone call? How globally through our everyday contact. many times have you had to put on In addition, we have QR-codes built your headphones to help you ‘ignore’ into every single door of each one of our the loud phone call your colleague is products where users can leave instant making next to you? Open office spaces feedback or comments. We have received have many plus sides, but silence (and a lot of useful feedback so far, but we are privacy) is not one of them. still looking for the best way of finding We want to offer a more stress-free the right contact points and methods to environment to our customers. We engage with our end-customers. like to think that our products also We still have a great deal of work to help our customers work in a more do and more people to make happier. productive way, creating even more We are looking into incorporating pods economic value around us – as well and booths into e.g. hospitals, schools, as, finally, happiness. Therefore, our universities, airports and production target is to make three million people plants because we need to facilitate the happier around the world by 2022. making of private and sensitive calls Sustainability through happiness also in public spaces. represents a core mission that runs through everything we do. What are our pods made of? Find out more starting from page 31. HOW WE SUSTAINABILITY ECONOMIC SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING 20 CAME HERE AT FRAMERY VALUE CREATION RESPONSIBILITY EFFICIENCY PRINCIPLES Investors In 2017, Framery received a new boost Principles for Responsible Investment when the Finnish Private Equity in its investment activities and aims Investor, Vaaka Partners, became the to improve long-run risk-adjusted majority shareholder in the company. returns from its investments by taking Vaaka Partners has proven to be a very into account ESG-factors (environimportant enabler of growth. mental, social, governance). Together with Vaaka Partners, Framery has been able to bring onA sustainability nudge board valuable knowhow and talent from the investors that enables us to respond to the All investor related questions regarding challenges our accelerating growth sustainability come through Vaaka has delivered over the past year. Vaaka Partners. Framery holds its board meetPartners and its co-investors own 60% ings once a month. Vaaka Partners has of the company. The rest of Framery is two seats on the board where repreDirect economic value created, MEUR owned by Framery´s founders, operasentatives named by Vaaka Partners sit. tive management and private investors. Vaaka Partners has steered Framery into 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 The investors of the private equity taking sustainability questions one step funds managed by Vaaka Partners are further. This first published report is, Operating costs leading Finnish and international infor example, evidence of how Framery 4,6 13,6 31,6 51,0 90,8 stitutional investors. Pension insurance has taken the guidance into action, Employee wages companies and fund-of-funds are the since we also believe that sustainability and benefits 0,8 1,9 4,7 7,4 12,6 largest investor groups. Vaaka Partners should be transparently communicated Payments to prois registered with the Financial Services and integrated into the strategy and viders of capital 0,0 0,1 0,4 0,8 0,0 Authority in compliance with the management approaches of our compaCommunity investAlternative Investment Fund Manager’s ny. We will continue the journey down ments 0,0 0,0 0,0 0,0 0,0 act. Vaaka Partners follows the UN this road in the future as well. HOW WE SUSTAINABILITY ECONOMIC SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING 21 CAME HERE AT FRAMERY VALUE CREATION RESPONSIBILITY EFFICIENCY PRINCIPLES Society Our biggest economic impact on our employees are also able to spread society flows from our tax footprint and the happiness outside work and across the jobs we offer directly and indirectly wider society as a whole. By employing through our own pay list, as well as people we can also create more wealth through our suppliers and dealers. and well-being around us. Our tax footprint Spreading happiness As a responsible taxpayer, Framery comEvery year, Framery chooses a mits to all applicable tax laws, rules and campaign or a fundraiser to support. In regulations in all jurisdictions where it 2019, we chose the Tampere Children’s conducts its business activities. Hospital Support Foundation, which Since all of our production and most has been actively raising funds for the of our employees are situated in Tampere University Hospital. Finland, the country also receives most After hearing more about the of our taxes. In 2019, Framery paid hospital’s needs, we soon understood Tax footprint: Taxes collected, MEUR Tax footprint: Taxes borne, MEUR EUR 2,5 million in taxes to governments that thousands of families experience in countries where it has operations. a lack of privacy in hospitals around 3,00 20,0 A total of EUR 19,1 million was paid the world. Framery was happy to directly (taxes borne) while EUR 4,8 provide Oand Q-pods for the Child million was collected on behalf of and Adolescent Psychiatry, Paediatric 2,25 15,0 governments. Haematology and Oncology sections to add much-needed privacy and safe 1,50 10,0 Jobs created spaces. During the past five years, Framery has Our charity cause for 2020 will employed over 300 people directly and, focus on donating to a cancer foun0,75 5,00 most notably during 2019, employed dation fighting breast cancer. We are 175 new recruits. Furthermore, as we also looking into the possibilities also have an ever-widening network of collaborating with a foundation 0,00 0,00 of suppliers and dealers, our indirect working towards increasing breast 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 employment is consequently even largcancer awareness in the United States. er. As we advance our aim of creating VAT Corporate income tax Read more about how we support our Employee’s social security happier jobs at Framery, we believe that Employer charges employees on page 26. HOW WE SUSTAINABILITY ECONOMIC SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING 22 CAME HERE AT FRAMERY VALUE CREATION RESPONSIBILITY EFFICIENCY PRINCIPLES Social responsibility THE FRAMERIAN CULTURE 23 EMPLOYEES AND THE WIDER WORKFORCE 26 Sustainability Report 2019 HOW WE SUSTAINABILITY ECONOMIC SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING 23 CAME HERE AT FRAMERY VALUE CREATION RESPONSIBILITY EFFICIENCY PRINCIPLES Social responsibility We want to take special care of our employees, customers and all the people we work with. We have a strong organizational culture backing up our sky-high growth and the happiness of our people. The Framerian culture We are committed to complying with products, our commitment to our national and international legislation people and in the way we work. and ethical principles, which are binding on all our employees. In addition, Our vision is to make three million we have created a unique Framerian people happier by the year 2022 culture that emphasizes transparency, because they can use our products. fair decision-making and openness. Framery will also offer hundreds of people around the world a provenly Our mission and vision are the happy and fulfilling place to work. By foundations of our culture working by our mission and vision, Our mission is clear: we are serious we can create a world that is a little bit about happiness. Happiness drives better than it would be without us. our work and is our sole purpose, since it is the essence and reason for Framery lives by its values everything we do. Happiness can Every one of us is responsible for living be found through the impact of our according to our values. Our values are HOW WE SUSTAINABILITY ECONOMIC SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING 24 CAME HERE AT FRAMERY VALUE CREATION RESPONSIBILITY EFFICIENCY PRINCIPLES the abilities and practices that we espeOur organization cially appreciate in our colleagues, as well as what we base our decision-making is flat: no strong on. They are at the core of our culture hierarchy, no and create our shared practices, rules and unnecessary middle goals. The values we expect each of us and future colleagues to live by are: management, no hidden secret • Respect • Courage processes. • Transparent communication • Impact • Curiosity • Good judgment • Responsibility When we recruit new colleagues, conclusions at the managerial level that consider pay raises or individual growth, employees are forced to act upon. Hence, we always keep our values in mind. open and engaging communications and events have a big role in our culture. We Our flat organization creates have created a working combination for a unique culture different needs: While there are great cultures in many companies, our unique way of working Frequent events: makes Framery a one-of-a-kind. One of the key elements of a happy • Framery talks once a month to all company is transparency. The idea is employees on topical questions. simple: our organization is flat – no • Company partner updates on fistrong hierarchy, no unnecessary middle nancial performance and quarterly management, no hidden secret processreports. es. All the information regarding the • ‘Thank God it’s Wednesday’ -coffees operation of our company is available at the Framery headquarters provide to Framerians on our internal Wiki weekly updates to the employees. -intranet. • Team meetings also reflecting inforAnother major contributor to workmation from the executive team. place happiness is fair decision-making • Frevents (Framery + events = – we want to invite everybody into the Frevents!) give everyone the chance decision-making process and not make to organize leisure activities. HOW WE SUSTAINABILITY ECONOMIC SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING 25 CAME HERE AT FRAMERY VALUE CREATION RESPONSIBILITY EFFICIENCY PRINCIPLES Channels for internal communications: Still not happy? We want to be sure everyone feels included and content • Slack is our instant messaging tool and that’s why we have the world’s for sharing information related to first happiness insurance. It’s simple: everything we do. if a Framerian feels that something at • Framery’s Decision App is a digital work strongly decreases their general decision-making tool that makes happiness, as a company we will do decision-making 100% transparent. everything we can to fix it. If we don’t Employees can see the arguments succeed, the person will receive EUR why each decision is being made 5,000 compensation. In 2019, conversaand also contribute if they have a tions were conductedwith four people, good idea to make Framery happier. and the insurance settlement has not • Wiki is our very own Wikipedia been deemed necessary once. where employees can find all there is to know about Framery. Our guideThe Culture Handbook lines, materials, processes, teams… In 2019, we collected all the informayou name it! tion on our mission, vision and culture • Our news bulletin Framery News in our Culture Handbook. The Culture contains info about on-going or upHandbook reveals how our culture coming projects, events and greetis defined and how we can support ings from teams. Framerians. The Culture Handbook also contains our promises to our current We feel that it is important that evand future employees on what kind of a erybody has the chance to speak up workplace we can offer. and there should be no hesitation in The handbook was created as a joint bringing any questions or ideas into mission between a working group, the open conversation. We believe everyexecutive team and the entire staff. one should feel comfortable in grabEmployees had the chance to e.g. take bing even our CEO by the sleeve and part in open workshops about values. sharing their thoughts. One of the key Internally, the Culture Handbook crechannels for internal communication ates our Code of Conduct, but for external and development for every Framerian use we have created a separate document. is a close relationship and interaction You can request the document from with their team leader and People & sustainability@frameryacoustics.com. Culture Business Partner. HOW WE SUSTAINABILITY ECONOMIC SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING 26 CAME HERE AT FRAMERY VALUE CREATION RESPONSIBILITY EFFICIENCY PRINCIPLES Sadly, 2019 didn’t end without a bump In 2019, we in the road. We had to hold employee introduced cooperation negotiations with four people working in the design team. Objective and The goal of this process was not to find Key Results economic savings but to make sure that our products remain interna(OKRs) to help tionally well known as well as best in measure our market. Additionally, the process was also looked at in terms of how we can performance. respond to the cyclical nature of our design work better. Finding the right talent Employees and For us, recruitment is not a one-way the wider workforce selection process; instead, we want to find people who also want to be part of the Framery story. We want to employ new colleagues who wish to develop themselves and Framery with us. We From a small family into a dream team employee’s opportunities to develop in an search for the world’s best people and Framery employs approximately 330 evolving environment. However, this means offer them the chance to develop. We people in over 10 different countries. that we must also take special care of our want our employees to be able to flourOur growth has been considerable – employees’ health and wellbeing. Employees by contract type, number ish in their work and to get to use their in 2019, the number of Framerians In order to become a high-performpotential to the full. However, finding increased by 175 new workers. All of ing team, we introduced several new 350 the right talent isn’t always easy. In our production happens at our headstructures and management approaches 2019, we had, for example, big needs 300 quarters in Tampere, Finland where we in 2019. Every year we set new strategic to fulfil our fast-growing pace of orders have 131 employees working to get our goals. During 2019, we focused on: 250 in our production and supply chain products ready for our clients. Our sales functions. team is our most ‘global’ team, working • Training our supervisors 200 in 30 different locations around the • Improving our internal 150 Keeping the team motivated world. In our production unit we also communications and developing Only well-trained supervisors can help start all employments as leased work our wellbeing agenda and talent man100 our employees find their right paths and with an opportunity to continue the agement. career plans. In 2019, every one of our 50 six-month period on our own pay lists. • We have been pleased to see that our supervisors participated in supervisory Growing at a fast pace creates opporwork on supporting our supervisors has 0 training. We look forward to continuing tunities, as well as challenges. Thanks been appreciated, receiving a score of our supervisor training throughout 2020. to continuous growth we can offer our 4.3/5 in our employee questionnaires. Permanent Temporary Part-time Full-time We want to also keep all our employees HOW WE SUSTAINABILITY ECONOMIC SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING 27 CAME HERE AT FRAMERY VALUE CREATION RESPONSIBILITY EFFICIENCY PRINCIPLES on their best performance levels. All Understanding This is also evidently very important still fighting against two main issues Framerians can take part in trainings. These questions are usually discussed and valuing to our own employees. When we had our headquarters renewed, our own when it comes to health. Musculoskeletal system diseases and mental and decided on at a team level, togethdifferent employees requested gender-neutral health issues are the most common er with their supervisor. personalities is toilet facilities. Today, we have two reasons for longer periods of sick At Framery, performance reviews gender-neutral toilets also being used leave at Framery. are ongoing throughout the year. In also a key part by our visitors, also in the use of our In order to support the wellbeing of 2019, we introduced Objective and of our culture visitors creating sometimes intriguing our employees, we pay special attenKey Results (OKRs) to help measure discussions with our global partners tion to three focus areas: our performance and to ensure that ­­— and a key to and customers. each employee has clear goals and thriving in global In 2019, we received no reported 1. We create a culture that supports begets ongoing feedback and support to grow. The purpose of OKRs is to competition. incidents of discrimination. ing yourself in your everyday work. We want to have everyone come as connect company, team, and personHealth and safety they are. al goals to measurable results while We cannot perform at the highest 2. We promote taking care of yourself. having all team members and leaders level as a team if we are unable to We offer information and the tools work together in one unified direcgive our absolute best as individuals. on e.g. nutrition, ergonomics and tion. We are aiming to develop our This requires an understanding of sleeping. This year we have, for OKRs system during 2020. our own limits, recovery times and example, collaborated with Hintsa Framerians have a large degree of suitable working practices, if we are Performance coaching. freedom and responsibility in what to get the maximal potential out of 3. We continue on our search for the they do. However, they have found the ourselves and our work. Health and best high-performance culture, bonus program helps them keep up to safety issues are managed in our where we can offer a model where date in the direction they should be goPeople & Culture function and are everyone has a chance to take part ing. We have a fair bonus system in place. also a part of daily work in producand act. We believe that through tion. In 2019, we renewed our work frequent feedback and having the Come as you are safety operations, and held elections best management approaches we We believe that we must be kind to for new health and safety representacan get there. ourselves and show empathy to our coltives. We also have an active occupaleagues. As Framerians come in many tional health and safety committee In addition, to support our emshapes and sizes, promoting equality that has representatives from all ployees’ mental health, we offer a and diversity is important. employee groups. mental training Slack channel in We come from different cultures, we collaboration with our occupational have different kinds of work experiHelping employees take healthcare. The channel offers an ences, we represent different genders care of themselves occupation healthcare professional and we come in all ages. Understanding Framerians are happy with their ready to discuss everyday concerns and valuing different personalities is work and we have even received a of our employees and helps bring also a key part of our culture – and a Great Place To Work certification in mental health services closer to key to thriving in global competition. recognition of this. However, we are our people. HOW WE SUSTAINABILITY ECONOMIC SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING 28 CAME HERE AT FRAMERY VALUE CREATION RESPONSIBILITY EFFICIENCY PRINCIPLES Injury rate 2019 Safety is taken seriously 4,91% *per 1 million hours worked Framerians come first when it comes to workplace safety. No customer order can ever shake our safety standards – no matter how big. Our biggest safety risks are in our production, but during 2019 we have Lost day rate 2019 started paying more attention also to 31,1% *per 1 million hours worked work safety at the office. Most typical injuries are related to small cuts in the production of day-to-day tasks. Each employee has a duty to intervene if they believe that they see ways of working that are deficient in terms of occupational welfare or safety. All Absentee rate 2019 accidents, anomalies, observations and 4,69% improvement suggestions related to safety must be entered in the Framery HSEQ-Online occupational safety system. This is such an important question that we have wanted to reward the best occupational safety observations with cinema tickets at our Framery Wednesday coffee. In 2019, there were 245 safety observations entered into the system. Production supervisors go through the entries in their weekly occupational safety reviews. If an employee makes CASE OUR CAFETERIA IS A SOCIAL HOTSPOT an entry in HSEQ-Online, they will receive an answer within two weeks. This is Would you like to have your morning porridge for just 50 cents or The answer always states what actions a family a salad for four euros? The Framery cafeteria is situated right in the we are taking or will take, and on what center of Framery’s headquarters in Tampere. Sure, the cafeteria tradition we schedule. helps to stop the coffee tooth from aching (yes, that’s a saying in won’t This well-established process allows Finnish) and our stomachs from rumbling, but all in all it serves a the occupational health and safety be giving much higher purpose. Our employees can connect daily and meet organization to find out about all safetyup on! colleagues they normally wouldn’t. In addition, we have been able related events. It also means we can to keep our prices low because the cafeteria doesn’t seek to make constantly improve employees’ safety a profit. Even though we are looking to become a dream team and and working conditions. not a family, this is a family tradition we won’t be giving up on! HOW WE SUSTAINABILITY ECONOMIC SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING 29 CAME HERE AT FRAMERY VALUE CREATION RESPONSIBILITY EFFICIENCY PRINCIPLES Framery received the Great Place to Work® (GPTW) Certification in 2017, 2018 and 2019. We are a great place to we can even better meet our employwork – provenly ees’ individual needs in the future. CASE FROM JUNGLE JUICE POP UPBAR TO A BETTER NIGHT’S SLEEP Framery received the Great Place to We also conduct in-house-surveys Work® (GPTW) Certification in 2017, on our employee’s engagement level – THE WELLBEING MONTHS AT FRAMERY 2018 and 2019. The certification is three times a year and a work health a way for an organization to measure survey once a year. We want Framerians have been able to hold leisure time events, Frevents, the level of its corporate culture, to continue for several year now by offering a monthly budget. In 2019, we to compare it to the results of the It was a heck of a year – now what? supporting kicked it up a notch. During September and December, the norbest companies to work for, and to We went through a heavy set of mal budget limitation was ‘thrown in the trash’ and we started our employees develop the business to a new level. changes last year. In 2020, we will our wellbeing months. People have been trying out boxing, The GPTWorganization has a very make sure all the new systems are in balancing CrossFit and climbing and many also went to the theater. In straightforward goal to develop well in place, and develop our talents a healthy life. addition, we have had an expert deliver a talk on realizing better companies throughout the world; to meet the needs of the future. In choices in your everyday life and a Jungle Juice pop-up in our better business – better jobs for addition, we will continue developing cafeteria, highlighting the importance of healthy snacks during people – a better society. In 2018, we our leadership work and running it to the afternoon. were ranked as the 22nd best place become a true attraction point for us. to work. We also need to work on our emWe have also taken more notice of health issues. Together with Although the GPTW competition ployer branding to make sure we are our health care provider, we have started groups to get rid of is just once in a year, the framework known also outside the Pirkanmaa nicotine dependence and to get better sleep. Our wellbeing helps us to keep our finger on the municipality and get a better reach months in 2019 have been an excellent try-out in preparation for pulse and implement systematic on true talents from e.g. Helsinki and this year 2020. We want to continue supporting our employees in follow-up actions to understand how beyond. The world is not enough! balancing a healthy life. HOW WE SUSTAINABILITY ECONOMIC SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING 30 CAME HERE AT FRAMERY VALUE CREATION RESPONSIBILITY EFFICIENCY PRINCIPLES Environmental efficiency MATERIALS 32 CIRCULAR ECONOMY 34 ENERGY AND GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS 35 Sustainability Report 2019 HOW WE SUSTAINABILITY ECONOMIC SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING 31 CAME HERE AT FRAMERY VALUE CREATION RESPONSIBILITY EFFICIENCY PRINCIPLES Environmental efficiency We are aware of the serious environmental threats that our world is facing; climate change, resource scarcity, loss of biodiversity. This challenging context motivates us to do our part in helping to create a more sustainable world. The shift towards a circular economy is indispensable. By converting our business models to be more circular, we are future-proofing our business and respecting planetary boundaries at the same time. How we work Each step we take to increase our Our strategic focus areas for the year At Framery, we have two clear goals: environmental efficiency is also 2019 were framed against our strategic moving us towards a circular econgoals. We were able to reach our short1. We want to minimize our footprint and omy. We also follow the ISO 14001 term environmental targets: maximize our handprint and environmental management system 2. We want to move from a take-makestandard and have received external 1. Developing our home base: we waste -culture into a circular economy. verification for it. increased environmental efficiency In order to achieve our goals, the in our processes. We approach these environmental year 2019 was all about creating 2. Famous and desirable brand: we questions through systematic envimore robust projects and processes. boosted our transparency (by e.g. ronmental management and continIn addition, we increased our knowlstarting to work on this report!) uous improvement of our environedge on e.g. our products’ life-cycle and released Environmental mental performance by taking the and our emissions in all scopes. Now, Product Declarations (EPD) based whole life-cycle of our products into we are more prepared to offer facton Life-Cycle Assessments (LCA) on consideration. based information to our stakeholdthe O and Q pod. Our Environmental Policy is the starters. 3. Best customer value: we developed ing point for our work. We need everyone In 2019, we also conducted targetbetter eco-efficient solutions and at Framery to commit to this policy, to ed environmental trainings for 34 applied circular economy ideas to work together, and to remember that Framerians working with the supply our products (Subscribed model). even the smallest contribution matters. chain and product development. HOW WE SUSTAINABILITY ECONOMIC SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING 32 CAME HERE AT FRAMERY VALUE CREATION RESPONSIBILITY EFFICIENCY PRINCIPLES The wood we Materials creating and selecting alternatives that manufacturing process. All of our alumihave a smaller environmental impact and are designed with circularity in use also provides num and steel parts are recycled during the initial manufacturing processes. Creating environmentally mind. In the future, we look forward to a carbon sink sustainable pods for our customers creating pods that are enduring, easy to during the long Recycled premium felts We create durable, safe and eco-effirenew and update and can be effortWe build all our pods using felt that is cient pods for our customers. All of lessly taken apart and rebuilt. life-cycle of our made from 60-70% recycled plastics. our pods are manufactured at our pods. Polyethylene terephthalate (PET) and headquarters in Tampere, Finland. Energy efficiency Polyethersulfone (PES) are, for example, Almost all of our components are Motion sensor lights are installed in our made from old recycled plastic bottles. sourced from the EU, and mostly pods by applying specially-designed, The felt is dust-free and does not irritate from Northern Europe. Furthermore, automatically-adjusting LED lamps and skin or lungs or release harmful partia large percentage of these compoventilation systems into them. Framery O cles into indoor air. nents are sourced nationally; over conforms to Low Voltage Directive (LVD) 50% of the purchased volume comes 2006/95/EC. The power consumption is Safe acoustic foam from Finland and the rest from 13 W when in use, and 0.8 W in standby. We use only the highest-quality acousEurope. This cuts down transport Likewise, Framery Q consumes 20 W tic foam in our pods. The foam is made emissions, as well as reduces risks and after leaving the pod, consumption from 60% recycled, heat-bound polyesrelated to the supply chain. drops 90% to around 2.1 W. So, even fast ter fibers, and has been granted an M1 In our material selections we charging your mobile phone may require Emission Classification. Furthermore, our prioritize long-lasting, renewable, more energy than using our pods. Materials by weight, metric tons chosen foam has been acknowledged by recyclable and non-toxic materials. the Finnish Allergy and Asthma Framery pods are made primarily Nordic birch plywood 4500 Federation, since it does not absorb of plywood, glass, steel, aluminum, We make our structural elements humidity or provide a breeding ground polyester, polyamide, PMMA plastic, from plywood. We prefer to use birch for any harmful microbes. We are also 3375 polyurethane foam, nylon, and wool. plywood from Finland, Scandinavia looking forward to seeing new innovaOver half of all the materials used or the Baltic States. All of our wood tions in manufacturing foam from e.g. are renewable and 16% is recycled. material suppliers have either FSC® or 2250 renewable cellulose. To further prolong the long service PEFC™ certificates. The wood we use life of our products, they can also also provides a carbon sink during the Safety comes first be subjected to maintenance procelong life-cycle of our pods. One phone 1125 Our design and engineering teams go dures. Only worn parts need to be booth pod can bind up to 1,760 kg of through immense research and testing replaced. CO2 during its entire life-cycle. to ensure Framery pods won’t cause any R&D also plays a key role in our 0 harm – whether it be from dangerous environmental work. The life-cycle Soundproof glass and steel panels 2017 2018 2019 emissions from the pod or fire, or other environmental impact can be evaluatWe use laminated safety glass, which is natural disasters outside the pod. Actued and determined during the design specially made for soundproofing. Our non-renewable materials ally, our pods can even be safer than the process. We can make a difference by glass is 15% recycled during the glass renewable materials room where they are situated. HOW WE SUSTAINABILITY ECONOMIC SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING 33 CAME HERE AT FRAMERY VALUE CREATION RESPONSIBILITY EFFICIENCY PRINCIPLES Currently, 98% of our suppliers have signed our Supplier Code of Conduct. Our products are certified • Our products have been tested in We want to make sure our pods are accordance with M1 Emission provenly safe and eco-efficient. Classification in laboratories We have acquired the following accredited under ISO/IEC 17025. certificates: • All our wood is FSC® or PEFC™ certified • Framery’s environmental manage• All our fabrics are EU Ecolabel ment system is certified according marked to ISO 14001 • We have conducted Life-Cycle AsWorking together with sessments according to ISO 14040 our suppliers and 14044 We are committed to selecting CASE LESS PACKAGING MATERIALS, LESS EMISSIONS • Environmental Product Declalike-minded partners who are ready rations which conform to ISO to collaborate with us on environ14025 and have a cradle to grave mental matters. Together, we can seek Thanks to Snip, clip and send! Our new wooden boxes enable a more scope. They are type III EPD with solutions to reduce the negative, and this innovation sustainable way of shipping our pods out to the world. Thanks third-party certification, including increase the positive environmental to this rather simple innovation we have been able to renew the we have external verification and external impact throughout the supply chain. transport packaging of our products in a way that enables us to been able critical review: O EPD and Q EPD This is important because our main save an estimated 363,000 kg of timber per year. Additionally, • Published and complete Health environmental impact is caused by to save more pod packages can be transported at once and an empty Product Declarations with full upstream processes of raw material an estimated package can be disassembled without breaking it, which enables disclosure of known hazards in production and the manufacturing 363,000 kg its reuse. We have also been able to minimize the amount of compliance with the Health of components. Currently, 98% of our of timber trucks we need, since we can fit more pods in one delivery. This Product Declaration open suppliers have signed our Supplier way we have also been able to reduce our emissions since we per year. Standard: O HPD and Q HPD Code of Conduct. need less kilometers per shipment of pods. Easy, economical and eco-efficient can truly come in one package. HOW WE SUSTAINABILITY ECONOMIC SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING 34 CAME HERE AT FRAMERY VALUE CREATION RESPONSIBILITY EFFICIENCY PRINCIPLES Waste intensity ratio Circular product design Circularity is also shown in our 8 product design. Our pods are modular, they can be easily disassembled and reassembled. This enables their 6 reuse. Also spare parts are provided for updating and maintaining our products. Another design related 4 circularity example is that for our 2Q standard meeting space, we took the 2 center piece of O pod door and turned it into a table. Materials are chosen so Circular that they support circularity: the felts 0 and are made from 60-70% recycled economy plastic bottles. 2017 2018 2019 metric tons of waste / MEur Read more about the materials in chapter Understanding our circular We are constantly finding opportutrend line Materials page 32. economy opportunities nities to avoiding waste in the first In order to gain more comprehensive place and increasing the recycling and in-depth understanding of the rate. One concrete example is that opportunities provided by a circular we got rid of the disposable transeconomy, Framery participated in port stands on our glass component Waste, by type and the Nordic CIRCit research project deliveries. These days, we’re reusing disposable method (kg) 2017 2018 2019 during 2019. We focused on three and circulating durable metal stands different work packages: Closing the between ourselves and the glass Hazardous product cycle, Circular value chains manufacturers. and Circular business models. In 2019, 64% of our waste was recyRecycling, metric tons 0,07 0,04 0,30 At the same time we also started runcled, 34% turned into energy, 1% taken Non-hazardous ning ‘product as a service’ pilot project to the landfill and 0.4% composted. in Finland and Sweden, called Framery Due to our production processes, Energy recovery, metric tons 170,9 178,3 172,7 Subscribed. It represents a new business we don’t have any risks of spills of model promoting circular economy chemicals, oils, fuels or other subRecycling, metric tons 65,7 91,4 328,4 thinking in our field. stances, since most of our production materials come as readymade compoLandfill, metric tons 0,0 0,0 5,2 Circularity in our production nents. We don’t use any water in our Minimizing waste at the office and at processes either, thus there’s no need Composting, metric tons 1,3 1,9 1,9 the production site is important to us. for industrial wastewater handling. HOW WE SUSTAINABILITY ECONOMIC SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING 35 CAME HERE AT FRAMERY VALUE CREATION RESPONSIBILITY EFFICIENCY PRINCIPLES GHG intensity ratio 15 10 5 Energy and greenhouse 0 2017 2018 2019 gas emissions metric tons of CO2 equivalent / MEur trend line Minimizing our footprint market-based greenhouse gas emisIn 2019, Framery made screening calsions, we voluntarily purchase 100% culations on its different scopes of GHG renewable electricity (hydropower) emissions. Now we can better underguaranteed of origin irrespective of stand the impact of different parts of our landlord. We also support the local our operations. production of renewable energy as we We own two company cars, which made a contract to start leasing 60 solar means our direct GHG emissions panels from Tarastejärvi solar plant for (Scope 1 ) are very low. five years from year 2020 forward. Greenhouse gas emissions CO2 equivalent Our indirect GHG emissions from the According to our LCA’s, the biggeneration of purchased energy (Scope 2 ) gest percentage of our environmental 2017 2018 2019 are formed from electricity and district impacts arises from our upstream heat that we use in our headquarters processes. We continue to work closely Scope 1, metric tons of CO2 and production. As our headquarwith our suppliers to make sure we equivalent 5,5 11,6 6,2 ters is a rented establishment, we can can help further mitigate the impact of therefore only try to bring forth more climate change. Scope 2 market based, sustainable choices to our landlord by We look forward to offering better metric tons of CO2 equivalent 507,0 538,0 611,9 e.g. encouraging the move into LEDinformation on other indirect GHG Scope 2 location based, lamps or purchasing biobased district emissions (not included in Scope 2 ) metric tons of CO2 equivalent 781,1 929,1 912,1 heat. In order to reduce our Scope 2 in our value chain (Scope 3 ) in 2021. HOW WE SUSTAINABILITY ECONOMIC SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING 36 CAME HERE AT FRAMERY VALUE CREATION RESPONSIBILITY EFFICIENCY PRINCIPLES Our pods enable excellent video conferencing possibilities, and therefore make it possible for our users to avoid unnecessary business travel. Maximizing our handprint considerably more energy and materials Minimizing our footprint is important, than manufacturing a pod, particularly but on the other hand, we can also be in a situation where a space needs to proud of the fact that that our prodbe remodeled or demolished. Furtheructs create a strong carbon handprint, more, our pods can be moved to a new by offering climate change mitigation location, and they also save space, as potential to our customers. meetings usually take place between For example, our pods enable excel2-4 people. In addition, the power lent video conferencing possibilities, required to run a large and infrequently and therefore make it possible for our used meeting room is not energy effiusers to avoid unnecessary business cient, whereas our pods use close to no travel. The annual carbon footprint of electricity when not in use. our O pod is 284 kg when calculated for the whole life-cycle of 10 years. This Read more about the Energy equals the carbon footprint of a return efficiency on page 32. CASE ZERO FOR HERO flight from Helsinki to Amsterdam for one person. If the pod helps to reduce Towards a vision and strategy For the next five Anything can happen just from an initiative from three the same amount of traveling per year, During early 2020, we are aiming to years, Framery Framerians. On the 18 December, 2019, Framery signed all other traveling avoided from this create a more robust environmental a contract with Tampereen Sähkölaitos and announced the news will rent 60 sun point is carbon negative, meaning that program by creating a detailed vision to our delighted employees. For the next five years, Framery will panels along our solution is responsible for producand strategy for our environmental rent 60 sun panels along with guarantees of origin for renewable ing a handprint rather than a footprint. work. The work of 2019 was of much with guarantees energy. We are proud to say that we are now running on 100% Our products also tackle the probuse in terms of making more advised of origin for renewable electricity and that we are the second biggest solar lem of building unnecessary meeting choices and in choosing the most renewable panel renter of Tampereen Sähkölaitos! rooms. Building a meeting room takes impactful paths. energy. Reporting principles 03 Sustainability Report 2019 HOW WE SUSTAINABILITY ECONOMIC SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING 38 CAME HERE AT FRAMERY VALUE CREATION RESPONSIBILITY EFFICIENCY PRINCIPLES How our report was created Reporting period following stakeholder groups and areas: This report covers our sustainability operations for the calendar year • Economic value created: investors, beginning January 1, 2019 and ending customers, employees, society at December 31, 2019. It contains data for large Framery’s operations, excluding leased • Employees and the wider workforce: workers, dealers and suppliers, unless our employees, wider workforce clearly stated. The report is Framery´s • Environmental efficiency: envifirst sustainability report and will conronmental causes throughout our sequently be published annually. products life-cycle, society at large Reporting boundaries Accordance with GRI and assurance This report is based on our most maThis report has been prepared in acterial issues. Our material topics were cordance with the GRI Standards: Core Contact us identified through several research option. GRI is a non-profit organization projects conducted in 2019 (read more that promotes sustainability and leads on page 32). in the field of non-financial reporting. We understand more, and continue The report has been read and approved For more information about Framery’s to learn more, about our impact on the by the executive team at Framery. work on sustainability, responsibility people and the environment around us. The information contained in the report and happiness, please contact us at: We see our operations impacting the has not been externally assured. sustainability@frameryacoustics.com. HOW WE SUSTAINABILITY ECONOMIC SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING 39 CAME HERE AT FRAMERY VALUE CREATION RESPONSIBILITY EFFICIENCY PRINCIPLES GRI Standards index Code GRI content Location Comments GRI 102: General disclosures Organizational profile 102-1 Name of the organization Cover page 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services We are Framery p. 6-8 102-3 Location of headquarters We are Framery p. 6 We are Framery p. 6, Framery value chain p. 8, 102-4 Location of operations Sales team locations: https://www.frameryacoustics.com/en/contact/contact-sales/ 102-5 Ownership and legal form Economic value creation, Investors p.20 102-6 Markets served We are Framery p. 6 102-7 Scale of the organization Our journey p. 7 Framery and its employees have chosen to work gender neutral. But for the sake of the GRI report it will report the numbers in the index: Permanent: women 91, men 236. 102-8 Information on employees and other workers Employees and the wider workforce p. 26 Temporary : women 4, men 8. Part-time: women 3, men 12. Full-time: women 92, men 232. 102-9 Supply chain Framery value chain p. 8, Materials p. 32 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain CEO’s greetings p. 5 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach GRI index Framery follows the Precautionary Principle. 102-12 External initiatives Our sustainability work p. 11 102-13 Membership of associations Our sustainability work p. 11 Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker CEO’s greetings p. 5 Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior The Framerian culture p. 23-25 HOW WE SUSTAINABILITY ECONOMIC SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING 40 CAME HERE AT FRAMERY VALUE CREATION RESPONSIBILITY EFFICIENCY PRINCIPLES Code GRI content Location Comments GRI 102: General disclosures Governance structure Our management approach p. 13-14, Executive team: 102-18 Governance structure https://www.frameryacoustics.com/en/company/executive-team/ , https://www.vaakapartners.fi/en/portfolio_page/framery/ Stakeholder engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Our stakeholder engagement p. 15 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements GRI index 85 percent of our workers are covered by a collective bargaining agreement. Stakeholder groups have been identified by listing key business stake102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Our stakeholder engagement p. 15 holders and partners and the actors interested in the impact of our work. 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Our stakeholder engagement p. 15 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Our stakeholder engagement p. 15 Reporting practice As a non-listed company Framery has not published any financial 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements GRI index statements publicly. 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries Our sustainability work p. 11, How our report was created p. 38 102-47 List of material topics Our sustainability work p. 11-12 This is Framery’s first sustainability report, hence no restatements 102-48 Restatements of information GRI index of information. 102-49 Changes in reporting GRI index This is Framery’s first sustainability report, hence no changes in reporting. 102-50 Reporting period GRI index This report covers the calendar year 2019. 102-51 Date of most recent report GRI index This is Framery’s first sustainability report. 102-52 Reporting cycle GRI index Framery plans on annual reporting on sustainability. 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report How our report was created p. 38 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards How our report was created p. 38 102-55 GRI content index GRI index 102-56 External assurance How our report was created p. 38 HOW WE SUSTAINABILITY ECONOMIC SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING 41 CAME HERE AT FRAMERY VALUE CREATION RESPONSIBILITY EFFICIENCY PRINCIPLES Code GRI content Location Comments GRI 103: Management approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Our management approach p. 13-14 103-2 The management approach and its components Our management approach p. 13-14 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Our management approach p. 13-14 ECONOMIC VALUE CREATION GRI 201: Economic performance 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Economic value creation, Investors p. 20, Society p. 21 GRI 203: Indirect economic impacts 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts Economic value creation, Society p. 21 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY GRI 403: Occupational health and safety 2016 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost 403-2 Social Responsibility, Employees and the wider workforce p. 26-29 days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities GRI 404: Training and education 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee Social Responsibility, Employees and the wider workforce p. 26 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assis404-2 Social Responsibility, Employees and the wider workforce p. 26, 29 (case) tance programs Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and 404-3 Social Responsibility, Employees and the wider workforce p. 26 career development reviews GRI 406: Non-discrimination 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken Social Responsibility, Employees and wider workforce p. 26 ENVIRONMENTAL EFFICIENCY GRI 301: Materials 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume Environmental efficiency, Materials p. 32 301-2 Recycled input materials used Environmental efficiency, Circular economy p. 34 GRI 305: Emissions 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Environmental efficiency, Energy and greenhouse gas emissions p. 35 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Environmental efficiency, Energy and greenhouse gas emissions p. 35 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Environmental efficiency, Energy and greenhouse gas emissions p. 35 GRI 306: Effluents and waste 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Environmental efficiency, Circular economy p. 34 HOW WE SUSTAINABILITY ECONOMIC SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING 42 CAME HERE AT FRAMERY VALUE CREATION RESPONSIBILITY EFFICIENCY PRINCIPLES
