R R October 2020 Sustainability Report Statement from our CEO At Plougmann Vingtoft, we wish to contribute to a Secondly, we assist SMEs and universities in pursuing sustainable global development. We are aware that potentially groundbreaking ideas. We help make sure the impact of initiatives taken in-house in an office that innovative thinking pays off. like ours is limited. However, we are convinced that Thirdly, we are committed to helping start-ups to be our line of work makes an actual difference in the successful with their sustainable ideas. Every year, we world, as we help our clients move innovative donate a number of hours of expert consulting advice solutions forward. to a start-up with a solution that impacts one or several of the UN global goals directly. This initiative is We are part of the process of turning good, sustainable marketed under the name “IP Matters”. initiatives into profitable, long-lasting businesses. Thus, our social responsibility is embedded in our brand and IP does in fact matter when firms are turning their bright in our daily work with three types of clients. ideas into viable solutions that replace “the old ways”. We aim to show this in our COP report this year. Firstly, we work with industry leaders within the fields Further, we will describe our actions to improve the inteof renewable energy, new technologies, pharma, and gration of the UN Global Compact and its principles into healthcare. As should be expected of corporations in our daily operations. leading market positions, they push the sustainable agenda and focus on making a positive impact on the I hereby reaffirm Plougmann Vingtoft’s support for planet we inhabit – and we assist them in driving new, the UN Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, sustainable technologies to market. Labor, Environment, and Anti-Corruption. Further, and on behalf of the firm, I commit to promoting the initiative and sharing this information with stakeholders. We are part of the Enjoy the read! process of turning good, sustainable initiatives Finn Strøm Madsen into profitable, longCEO lasting businesses. Page 2 Plougmann Vingtoft © 2020 Pro bono initiatives IP MATTERS At Plougmann Vingtoft, we wish to contribute to WINNER OF IP MATTERS 2020: sustainable global development. The best way for us LIFELINE ROBOTICS to do so is to move innovative solutions forward and ensure that sustainable initiatives turn into good The world’s first automatic swab robot was businesses. Therefore, we have introduced an launched in Denmark on Wednesday May 27th, initiative under the name “IP Matters”. 2020, by a team of researchers at the University of Southern Denmark. This was the beginning of IP Matters is Plougmann Vingtoft’s annual donation of the start-up journey for Lifeline Robotics. our expert IP-consulting services worth of 50.000 DKK. “At Lifeline Robotics we aspire to ensure health “We cannot save the world and well-being for all, including a bold commitment to democratise access to safe and effective with IP-consulting. But we pandemic tests using available and innovative can make sure that the talented, robotic solutions,” says co-founder Søren Stig. Danish entrepreneurs, who are introducing sustainable solutions, Sustainable Development Goals: #3 Good Health & Well-being. get the support they need to turn their idea into a successful business. That is exactly what they will get from this donation.” Finn Strøm Madsen, CEO at Plougmann Vingtoft Each year, we select a Danish start-up that we consider able to influence one or several of the 17 Global Goals. The start-up will have access to a team of IP-experts with industry specific knowledge about the product or service in question. This way, we can help them move forward and closer to the market with their idea. Photo: Lifeline Robotics By 2030, we hope to have enabled 12 start-up firms to make a difference for our planet. Page 3 Plougmann Vingtoft © 2020 Involvement We are involved in several communities that back MEDICON VALLEY ALLIANCE entrepreneurship and sustainable development locally Medicon Valley Alliance (MVA) is a non-profit memas well as globally. Below, you will find a list of organizabership organization in the Danish-Swedish life science tions that we support and contribute to. cluster Medicon Valley. The activities in MVA focus on strengthening conditions for a vibrant life science ecoDANISH IP FAIR system in Medicon Valley trough networking events, inDanish IP Fair assembles all Danish Research Institutions creased collaboration, analysis, and communication acand their new technologies. The fair is a place for compativities. nies, investors, and entrepreneurs to meet and network about business opportunities. We support the annual DANSK BIOTEK event and use it as a platform for exchanging knowledge Dansk Biotek takes steps to increase the public knowwith students, researchers, and entrepreneurs. ledge about modern biotechnology. The organization publishes books and articles, participates in the public TECHBBQ debate, and teaches about biotech research conditions, TechBBQ is the biggest start-up and innovation summit genetic modification, and ethical matters. in Scandinavia. It represents a huge network of start-ups as well as industry leaders who can benefit massively DANISH BUSINESS ANGELS (DANBAN) from protecting their ideas – therefore, we support the DanBAN is a non-profit organization that connects aporganization and its purpose of bringing people together. prox. 200 Danish investors, who support national as well as international entrepreneurs and help them scale up. HIGH TECH SUMMIT Plougmann Vingtoft teaches DanBAN members about High Tech Summit is part conference and part exhibithe IP system. Further, DanBAN is involved in finding tion powered by DTU (Technical University of Denmark). candidates to receive the IP Matters donation. Their vision is to create the largest research-based meeting place in Denmark within the field of digitization. We are present as speakers and exhibitors. DANISH FOOD CLUSTER Our life science experts within food and agriculture participate in groups working to improve practices within food technologies. One of them is the Danish Food Cluster in which the efforts are aimed at bringing Danish Research Solutions in to the Global Sustainable Food Production. Page 4 Plougmann Vingtoft © 2020 Knowledge sharing & education Several of our IP attorneys work as lecturers or examiners at educational institutions such as the University of Copenhagen, the University of Aarhus, the University of Aalborg, and the University of Southern Denmark. Others provide lectures and presentations at institutions such as Copenhagen School of Design and Technology (KEA) and the innovation program at Copenhagen Business Hub (Iværksætterhuset). Aside from sharing knowledge with educational institutions, Plougmann Vingtoft takes on the responsibility of educating young professionals in the IP industry. We have a comprehensive trainee program that provides new employees with all the necessary knowledge to pass the exams that are required to achieve a career within IPR. Page 5 Plougmann Vingtoft © 2020 Employee satisfaction As should be expected, we commit to high ethical and to improve the job satisfaction in direct dialogue with the professional standards, and we take care of our employtop management. ees and their bright minds. In addition, we apply a situational management principle in order to keep a close dialogue whenever needed. Put simply and yet sincerely: we want to be the preferred For example, we have an ongoing dialogue concerning employer and the best place to work. To maintain emworkload, which is part of our efforts to enhance job ployee satisfaction we have three focus areas: physical satisfaction and prevent stress. environment, psychosocial environment, and the experience of personal development. Finally, we plan sessions between our employees and their managers. These sessions deal with employee perPHYSICAL ENVIRONMENT formance, development, need for training as well as a disWe dedicate resources to monitor, remedy, and eliminate cussion of what the individual can do to take responsibienvironmental and safety risks through our work envility for his/her contribution to the team and overall to the ronment committee. The members are elected by and company. Some of these topics lead to the final branch of among the employees for a three-year period during employee satisfaction: personal development. which they receive mandatory work environment courses. Part of the committee’s work is to carry out regular PERSONAL DEVELOPMENT workplace assessments and make sure to follow up on Several of our attorneys have completed the European expressed needs from employees. Qualifying Examination (EQE) and many of our paralegals are Qualified Intellectual Property Administrators Further, employee insurance is a priority and a mandato(QIPA’s). We encourage our employees to further educate ry part of the Plougmann Vingtoft employment contract. themselves and to keep updated on the most current All contracts entail a personal accident insurance as well trends in the IPR world. as an extra health insurance, which provides all employees with quick and competent treatment in case of We support employees, who pursue educational opporillness. Additionally, we offer employees a vaccination tunities – both financially and in terms of flexibility in the against the flu. This initiative is free of charge and of work schedule. course optional. In other words, it is a priority to keep investing in our emPSYCHOSOCIAL ENVIRONMENT ployees and make sure that they experience a personal We have established a work life-committee, which concareer development and feel confident in meeting the sists of employees from different departments who work demands of constantly changing industries. Page 6 Plougmann Vingtoft © 2020 Plougmann Vingtoft in facts & figures We set our team of experts regardless of age/seniority, ethnicity, nationality, and gender, and we have several languages and cultures represented in our offices. IN TOTAL ION BUT R I WE SPEAK 11 DIFFERENT LANGUAGES GENDE RD IST Male Female M ANAGEMENT 43 % IN RO 57 % ON L DER DISTRIB ES GEN Female UT 44 % Male I 56 % WE HAVE 66 FULL TIME EMPLOYEES (58 FTE) 46 THE AVERAGE AGE IS 46 44 % OF OUR EMPLOYEES HAVE BEEN 10 AT THE COMPANY MORE THAN 10 YEARS 6 STUDENT WORKERS ARE EMPLOYED PART-TIME Page 7 Plougmann Vingtoft © 2020 The impact of IPR In a knowledge-based society, new ideas and inventions that improve operational performance, productivity or are the backbone when creating and maintaining a efficiency while reducing costs, inputs, energy consumpsuccessful business, and therefore it is often essential for tion, waste or pollution. companies to ensure their intellectual property rights. We assist global corporations in protecting their breakPlougmann Vingtoft is able to contribute with great throughs in renewable energy transition. Further, we value when guiding companies in the global IPR system, have experts who consult on matters concerning helping them to make the right decisions in order to energy efficiency and water conservation. protect their business the best way possible. As mentioned earlier, we believe this is crucial in order Creators of clean technology need patent protection for good, creative and sustainable ideas to win territory for their inventions and investments, as it secures their and market shares globally. business and stimulates further innovation on climate action – for the common benefit of our society. Below is a short look into how our line of work makes an actual difference in the world. COMMUNICATION ON SUSTAINABLE INVENTIONS Working with frontier technologies and solutions deLIFE SCIENCE mands a keen attention to secrecy. However, we are alThe Life Science industry is one of our top strategic ways delighted to share and promote the stories behind priorities. We acknowledge the fact that food is rapidly the different inventions as soon as this is appropriate. becoming a scarce resource globally, and humankind needs to find new ways of preventing widespread On our website, we share stories about innovation that famine. We assist R&D within foods for which Denmark changes the world for the better. Since our last COP, we is renowned throughout the world by introducing the have highlighted stories about: benefits of the global IP system to the industry. A technology that prevents work-related injuries and We work with world leaders of the health-care industry, improve the general work environment. as well as first-movers within industrial biotech and An energy efficient solar shading solution. medical technology. Each of them have innovative and sustainable solutions for life on land, life below water, A cleantech solution that turns plastic waste into fuel. and good health and well-being on the agenda. A sensor system for bathrooms that decreases the overconsumption of water. CLEANTECH The industry of clean technology is also worth mentioA biotech solution that improves brain and prostate ning. Clean technology relates to products and services cancer diagnosis. Page 8 Plougmann Vingtoft © 2020 Matching the UNGC 10 principles Human Rights PRINCIPLE 1: Businesses should support In Denmark, the labor market is governed by and respect the protection of internationally many laws ensuring human rights to a very high proclaimed human rights; and degree, and we experience very few violations of said laws. PRINCIPLE 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. We are devoted to monitoring our foreign business partners with a view to assessing their compliance with human rights. Labor PRINCIPLE 3: Businesses should uphold We offer employments regardless of age/ the freedom of association and the effective seniority, ethnicity, nationality, and gender. recognition of the right to collective bargaining; We provide employee representatives with PRINCIPLE 4: the elimination of all forms appropriate facilities to assist in the development of forced and compulsory labor; of effective collective agreement. This is obvious in our work life& work environment committees. PRINCIPLE 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and We offer regular dialogue sessions to monitor job satisfaction as well as the employee’s individual PRINCIPLE 6: the elimination of discrimination in workload and stress level. respect of employment and occupation. Environment PRINCIPLE 7: Businesses should support a preWe offer pro bono work that supports solutions cautionary approach to environmental challenges; to environmental challenges. PRINCIPLE 8: undertake initiatives to promote We focus strategically on industries such as greater environmental responsibility; and cleantech and life science. PRINCIPLE 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption PRINCIPLE 10: Businesses should work against According to Transparency International’s Corcorruption in all its forms, including extortion and ruption Perception Index, Denmark ranks as the bribery. least corrupt country in the world. Page 9 Plougmann Vingtoft © 2020 Concluding remarks As an office-based consultancy, the nature of our operations makes our direct environmental impact relatively small as compared to e.g. production plants. However, we are constantly on the outlook for ways to act environmentally sound. For example, we focus efforts into developing digital tools that can ease our procedures and decrease our consumption of resources. Also, our offices run on sustainable energy. We are proud to continue our full support for the UNGC initiative. Page 10Plougmann Vingtoft © 2020 WWW.PV.EU COPENHAGEN // AARHUS // MADRID // MUNICH // OSLO
