BDO EAST AFRICA UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS JULY 2020 UN GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT | OUR 2019 STORY BDO East Africa is a key member of the BDO global network of public accounting, tax and advisory firms. The firms have representation in 167 territories, with over 88,120 people working out of over 1,890 offices. The fee income of the member firms in the BDO network, including the members of their exclusive alliances, was $10 billion as at 30 September 2019. Being a member of the BDO global network allows us to meet the needs of clients who are growing and trading internationally. 167 COUNTRIES AND TERRITORIES GLOBAL PRESENCE $10bn TOTAL REVENUES GLOBAL HEADCOUNT NUMBER OF GLOBAL AVERAGE PROFESSIONAL 88,120 OFFICES STAFF TO PARTNER RATIO OF 10:1 1,809 1 STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT BY CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER As a firm operating in East Africa, we are pleased to be part of one of the largest professional networks in the world (BDO) which fully supports the United Nations Global Compact. Our firm in East Africa has tailored our structure and polices to adhere to the 10 principles of the Global Compact. We recognise that the world is changing, especially after the impact of COVID 19 on different economies and that, as while our past achievements are a strong foundation, we must focus on defining our future and becoming the BDO of tomorrow. At BDO our focus is to continue growing with our clients and markets as well as helping our people realise their dreams along the way. As financial experts and business advisers, our teams work each day to support our clients in making the most viable business choices to allow them to operate smoothly in the region and globally. Our auditors provide access to trustworthy financial information to shareholders, employees and the public. Our tax advisers support individuals and businesses to comply with their tax obligations. Our risk and advisory specialists make sure that companies push for quality internal controls to keep their business decisions on track and provide quality solutions to a myriad of business decisions. Achieving this is based on our core purpose: ‘People helping people achieve their dreams’ and is underpinned by our Values. We believe this notion feeds into the goals of the UN Global Compact. In this issue on Communication on Progress, we describe how our actions reflect our commitment to The Ten Principles through our business strategy, culture and daily operations and how we look to continually improve our adoption in these changing times. Yours sincerely, Sandeep Khapre, CEO BDO EAST AFRICA 2 Implementing activities to follow the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact BDO East Africa became a member of the United Nations Global Compact in July 2019 and this is our first Communication on Progress submission. However, prior to becoming a member, our firm has embraced the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact. 3 HUMAN RIGHTS At BDO we are committed to ensuring all our staff, and those working in our supply chain, have their human rights respected and that we uphold the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights throughout our values, practices, polices, and culture. Implementation The BDO Manual contains clauses regarding workplace harassment. New staff are given access to copies of this manual and requested to ensure that they familiarise themselves with the contents. A bonus policy has been introduced which rewards staff according to their performance based on firm results. A policy to contribute to bereavement expenses of staff and close relations has been adopted. This is in addition to the contributions when staff are married or have children. A suggestion box has been placed in a discreet area of the office for staff suggestions. The box is opened in advance of our quarterly office team building meetings and the contents are discussed at the meetings with management giving them serious consideration. Staff have been addressed by counsellors who can provide assistance in dealing with personal and work related issues. A plan to provide external counselling to staff is being investigated. Measurement of outcomes Office vehicle provided to facilitate staff and their families to weddings and funerals. Series of informal luncheons held to discuss treatment of staff and forge a way forward. 4 LABOUR At BDO we are committed to implementing the highest standard of labour practices and to complying with Regional laws in all cases. Implementation BDO appraise staff on workplace performance twice yearly. The results of the appraisal are used in the salary and promotion decisions for the next year. BDO ensure that all staff receive a fair living wage. They also provide medical insurance for staff, spouse and up to two children. Staff are provided with lunch daily either in the office or while out in the field. During the period when the country was “locked down” as a result of the COVID 19 response, measures were put in place to enable staff to work from home. As support staff were not able to carry out their duties during this period, through no fault of their own, they continued to receive their full salary. Measurement of outcomes Staff adjusting to working from home and finding that they can be even more productive by avoiding the time-involved in the daily commute to the office. Although staff miss their daily office-provided lunch, the savings in transport costs compensates for this. 5 ENVIRONMENT ANTI CORRUPTION Implementation BDO holds itself to the highest standards of ethical behaviours and has a zero tolerance When attending functions in the field staff are approach to all forms of corruption and reminded that they should collect all rubbish bribery. This is embedded in our values and and dispose of it in waste bins. implemented throughout our supply chain. Office waste is collected and taken to the collection point in the office building. Implementation BDO have a whistleblower policy which An initiative to recycle waste is currently encourage staff to report any corrupt pracbeing investigated tices. Measurement of outcomes The BDO Administrative Policies and Procedures Manual describe the firm gift policy Staff at venues where office functions are held which is designed to discourage corrupt pracare appreciative of the support given by BDO tices. in keeping their premises in good order. BDO is registered with the Financial Intelligence Authority (FIA) which monitors money laundering Measurement of outcomes Submitted annual return to the FIA 7 CONTACT US UGANDA TANZANIA 6th Floor, Block C 1st Floor, InfoTech Place Nakawa Business Park Mwai Kibaki Road Plot 3-5 New Portbell Road PO BOX 9912 P O Box 9113 Ofc Tel +255 746 339900 Tel: +256 414 220 371 Dar es Salaam Tanzania E-mail: uganda@bdo-ea.com KENYA MAURITIUS C1 Sameer Business Park Essar Building Mombasa Road 10, Frere Felix de Valois Street P O Box10032-00100 Port Louis Nairobi, Kenya Tel: +230 202 95000 Tel: +254 20 224 6314 Fax: +230 202m9993 Fax: +254 20 224 6345 E-mail: bdo@bdo.mu Email: kenya@bdo-ea.com ETHIOPIA RWANDA Bole Sub city, Kabele 03/05 Career Center Building, 8th Floor, 5th Floor, Salfaz Building KG 541st P.O. Box 6593, KIGALI RWANDA. P O Box 14001, Addis Ababa Tel: +(250) 738 304070 Tel: +251 11 663 1196 Tel: +(250) 788 309225 Fax: +251 11 663 1205 www.bdo-ea.com E-mail: million.kibret@bdo-ea.com
