BALDHA GROUP ! Communication on Progress YEAR 2020 ! • About the company • Message of the CEO • PRINCIPLE 1 HUMAN RIGHTS Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights • PRINCIPLE 2 HUMAN RIGHTS Businesses make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. • PRINCIPLE 3 LABOUR STANDARDS Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining • PRINCIPLE 4 LABOUR STANDARDS the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor • PRINCIPLE 5 LABOUR STANDARDS the effective abolition of child labor • PRINCIPLE 6 LABOUR STANDARDS the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation • PRINCIPLE 7 ENVIRONMENT Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges • PRINCIPLE 8 ENVIRONMENT Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility • PRINCIPLE 9 ENVIRONMENT Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies • PRINCIPLE 10 ANTI-CORRUPTION Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery ! About Baldha Group Baldha is an Italian Word; it means ‘The Best and the self-confident’. In the memory of The Baldha Garden which is located in the old part of city of Dhaka, Bangladesh (1909); the Company started its Journey in June , 2010. Empowering the strategy followed by integrity and efficiency the company has been growing very successful businesses in sectors ranging from garments to agriculture, Telecom, media, publication and Properties.Each successive venture demonstrates our devotion to pick the right market and the right opportunity.Our companies are part of a family rather than a hierarchy. We want to make our dream into solution which is the growth and development of businesses for mankind. Mission We want to support mankind through our innovation, strategy and business platform. Vision We want to be known around the world for our values and extraordinary creation. ! ! From the CEO This is the year of corona Virus Pandemic , the year of tragedy and disaster . Big business to small business ventures everyone have been affected from this virus . WFH ( working from home )is the new concept of business . From our Baldha group team we are also following this social distancing rule by working from home . We have created some awareness videos from our production house to create social awareness for maintaining distance , domestic violence , corruption and Environment . This year we have focused mainly on Gender Equality , women empowerment, Reduced Inequality , Life On Land , Decent work and Economic Growth and Peace , justice and strong institutions for SDGS . Theses SDGs are connected to also human rights , labour rights , Environment rights and anticorruption . We also have involved ourselves in the local and Global net works seminars and training to enhance our skills for the local and global business implantation and the enhancement of local and global networking . ! As Baldha Group we believe it is important to take responsibility for how people , the environment and society are affected by our operations and , ultimately the operations of our clients .We actively strive to reduce our own impact on the environment and society are affected by our operations and ultimately the operations of our client .Within the SDG with the new business platform we are facing new challenges in terms of security , transparency and resource. The SDG agenda gives us the opportunity and enormous boosts to make business a force for good . I am pleased to confirm that Baldha Group reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption.Global Compact’s ten principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication . Sincerely Farah Mazid Saddha CEO Baldha Group We support UN Global Compact ! Human Rights Baldha Group should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights And make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. COMPANY POLICY Baldha Group follows the local and international legislation regarding the aspect of human rights. The values we support are concern for our customers, employees, partners and shareholder. Our aim is to influence our employees, all our business partners and stake holders to understand and respect the fundamentals of Human rights.We wanted to make sure that all the employees of our organisation are treated equally and they do not become the victims of their race, nationality, ethnic background, language, religion, social status, sexual orientation. These procedures are periodically updated by the members of the managerial team and by the team in the Quality Assurance department. Our employees have the right to equal salary for equal work, to an equitable and satisfying remuneration, right to medical care, to social security and to social services. Our shareholders, suppliers, partners and collaborators respect the human rights. In the relations among employees, we encourage integrity and honesty. Through the educational projects developed in partnership with our nonprofit organisation NGO ANDRA we share fundamental moral values and we make sure that all our business serves the man kind. ! ACTIONS TAKEN In this year from Baldha group of companies for Human rights SDG 5.Gender Equality Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls Gender Equality means equal rights for male and female . There should not be any differences between them because all human being are created equal . For Gender Equality tins Year we have taken these targets . End Discrimination Against women and Girls :End all forms of discrimination against all women and girls everywhere. End all violence against and Exploitation of women and girls :Eliminate all forms of violence against all women and girls in the public and private spheres, including trafficking and sexual and other types of exploitation Ensure Ensure Full participation in Leadership ad decision making :Ensure women’s full and effective participation and equal opportunities for leadership at all levels of decision-making in political, economic and public life. Promote Empowerment Of women Through Technology :Enhance the use of enabling technology, in paretic ! Empowerment Of women Through Technology :Enhance the use of enabling technology, in particular information and communications technology, to promote the empowerment of women. Our online news portal thekalerjatra.com has continued to thrive on the women’s rights and gender equality by publishing articles and news to create awareness for the greater mass. About kalerjatra.com thekalerjatra.com a new-generation multimedia global news portal disseminates round-the-clock news from a highly interactive platform. A concern of the Baldha Group Ltd. (www.baldha.com),thekalerjatra.com is a most dynamic platform that brings news fast and accurate. For people across the globe, it is also a haunt for refreshing entertainment.! Actions Taken places • We have continuously published the news to encourage more and more readers to know and aware about the gender equality and women empowerment http://thekalerjatra.com/celebrating-international-womens-day-2/ • We have published news about the change makers and young leaders . • We have given the opportunity to freelance authors and journalist to publish articles on gender equality and human rights • Our news chief news reporter is a female and she has done excellent job for us and as a team leader she has taken a lot of risks to portrait some news about violence against women. • In our team meetings we have shared with our stake holders and board of director about the importance and awareness of human rights . • We have launched a new open communication method where CEO , Directors , Stake holders , Team members of Thekalerjatra.com share their thoughts and out puts about human rights and build a team work provided with refreshment. ! SDG 5.Gender Equality Achieve gender equality Tarar Porne Production house limited Tarar Porne means the house of stars which is an attribute to our CEO’S grandparent house ‘Tarar Porne’ located in Borisal, Bangladesh.Tarar Porne Production House is a full-service Documentary, film, video and multimedia company; managing the production process from script to screen. As a reliable resource for everything from crews to location scouting, grip and electric packages to high definition and standard definition post production and duplication, we offer solutions and resources to assist in your project be it film or TVCs the company bears a solid grasp on a highly targeted vertical market, advertising sales has become an important part of the company's business. The Tarar Porne brand is heavily based on the content that it procures. The staff of the company is constantly seeking cutting-edge films, ads and documentaries that the audience would enjoy.We believe truth is beauty and beauty is truth, Creativity comes from truth and beauty, it brings divine blessings .Along with this blessing we want to expand our horizon towards the eternity forever . Actions Taken place this year ! • We have produced Documentary and Awareness Videos against domestic Violence for women during the lockdown for corona virus . Domestic violence has increased a lot during the Corona virus Pandemic because of the lock down . Justice needs to be served By the Government and law enforcement service . http://thekalerjatra.com/women-on-domestic-violence-during-coronavirus-pan demic/ • Our team members , board of directors and stake holders have participated in the awareness meetings by the on line Apps in order to maintain the prevention of corona virus pandemic . Result : No Conflict or Discrimination has been reported for human Rights ! Environment Rights • PRINCIPLE 7 ENVIRONMENT Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges • PRINCIPLE 8 ENVIRONMENT Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility • PRINCIPLE 9 ENVIRONMENT Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Company policy Baldha Group supports the UNGC principles on the Environment. The principles have been included in our CSR policies and our Code of Conduct. As leader on the media, our company assumes responsibility towards the environment, by promoting good practices in environmental issues and cultivating these values through its policies of partnerships, through involvement in programs developed by organisations from the business environment and our nongovernmental sector Andra. We are very much aware of climate change and its impact . We try to maintaining out business and pursue our ventures environment friendly and want to make sure that that we meet the global goals to create action to combat climate change . ! About Baldha Agro Limited The main purpose of the corporation is to develop and market chemical free fruits , vegetables and ALOE VERA gel . In Bangladesh its very difficult to find chemical free vegetables , fruits and herbs.These chemicals are very dangerous for human body .We produce directly these products in our land and sale them to the public . Aloe Gel is very prudent and essential for health .The main reason of popularity of the Aloe Vera derivatives is the perception of natural ingredients is used in the finished product. Aloe powder, gel, vitamin tablets, shampoo and other Aloe cosmetics are being produced from the plant and no other chemicals are being used as ingredients, except some preservatives and artificial perfume.This year we have focused on flowers and we have started to grow flowers to deliver to flower stores. Our marketing team has been continued to put their efforts to deliver the message to the mass media about the benefits of the products of mother nature and the awareness for environment pollution and the caring and nurture for mother nature . ! Goal 13: Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts Targets Build Knowledge and capacity to meet climate change Improve education, awareness-raising and human and institutional capacity on climate change mitigation, adaptation, impact reduction and early warning. Actions taken place • We have continued our ‘Save the nature ‘ campaign to create awareness about climate change and its impact ,Pls check the news and video http://thekalerjatra.com/baldha-group-supports-ungc-environment-rights/ • Our team members , board of directors and stake holders have participated in the awareness meetings and we have shared them the policy hand out for Climate change and its impact . ! Fish Farm SDG 14 Life below water Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas and marine resources for sustainable development We have continued our fish farm project where we produce fresh water chemical free fish . Bangladesh is a country of rivers and pond but due to the environmental pollution the ponds and rivers are dying and the water is getting Poisoned by the plastics , chemicals and other garbages are thrown there . This littering and water mismanagement has big destructive impact on the life underneath the water . The marine species are suffering and dying because of this pollution . Actions taken place • Our fresh firm fishes are not only targeted for profit, introduction of such natural products to the consumers will enhance health consciousness as a whole • We have established sustainable production and consumption programme we have identified the environmental threat and the awareness to protect the life below water. ! • we have stablished two way communication with our stake holders • We have adopted voluntary charters and code of conduct • Our marketing team has produced the awareness videos to keep water clean and save life below water http://thekalerjatra.com/environment-less-toxicduring-the-coronavirus-pandemic/ With the collaboration of our non profit organisation and media house we have targeted to our community to spread out the message ‘ Safe the life below water ‘ Result 0 Environment risk has been reported ! Labour Rights • PRINCIPLE 3 LABOUR STANDARDS Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining • PRINCIPLE 4 LABOUR STANDARDS the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor • PRINCIPLE 5 LABOUR STANDARDS the effective abolition of child labor • PRINCIPLE 6 LABOUR STANDARDS the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Company Policy Our company encourages equal opportunities. Neither employee is subject to any form of discrimination based on gender, race or physical abilities, or religion. Any form of physical or verbal harassment is strictly forbidden. All employees are free to be part of any association or nongovernmental foundation. ! Every employee has the right to negotiate his/her salary Our shareholders, suppliers, partners and collaborators respect the Labour rights. In the relations among employees, we encourage integrity and honesty. Baldha apparel Ltd Baldha Apparel Ltd is a marketer, manufacturer, and distributor of high quality branded knit, woven and sweater apparel. Company specialises in selling a variety of wear tops and bottoms, for the ever-changing apparel market.Baldha Apparel mission is to become a recognised manufacturer, importer and distributor of high quality apparel and textile products to the USA Canada and Europe at the lowest possible price and with delivery times superior to any in the industry. It is equally committed to always exceeding the customer expectations and shareholder value. ! SDG 8 Decent work and Economic Growth Promote sustained , inclusive and sustainable economic growth , full and productive employment and decent work for all Targets FULL EMPLOYMENT AND DECENT WORK WITH EQUAL PAY By 2030, achieve full and productive employment and decent work for all women and men, including for young people and persons with disabilities, and equal pay for work of equal value. PROTECT LABOUR RIGHTS AND PROMOTE SAFE WORKING ENVIRONMENTS Protect labour rights and promote safe and secure working environments for all workers, including migrant workers, in particular women migrants, and those in precarious employment. PROMOTE BENEFICIAL AND SUSTAINABLE TOURISM By 2030, devise and implement policies to promote sustainable tourism that creates jobs and promotes local culture and products. ! Action Taken • When we place any order to the factories we make sure that factory is complaint with the international labor rights.We make sure our employees have decent work environment to be productive . • During the manufacturing Process we always make sure that the workers are paid for over time, receive the sick leave and treated with respect. • We promote high standards of health and safety in our manufacturing facilities • We invest in technologies that reduce the risk of human error and accidents in production . • We always arrange monthly team meetings to share our employees about their expectations,contributions and ideas for the future road maps of the organisation • All employees have benefitted from private medical insurances and annual medical check up • At the company’s premises have been arranged facilities necessary to disabled persons • We prioritise the eradication of modern day slavery and child labour in production supply chains . Action Taken Beautiful Bangladesh Produced By Tarar Porne production House LTD To Promote sustainable Tourisom , To create jobs To promote culture and products . We have continued to travel 64 states of Bangladesh to promote the heritage and culture of Bangladesh . From producer and Director to the whole crew have given tremendous effort to produce this show . Bangladesh is truly beautiful , full of history , culture and heritage . These shows are on aired on Local tV channels RTV , Bangla Vison and you tube . https://youtu.be/9pQDacq0TgM ! Goal 10: Reduce inequality within and among countries Target ENSURE EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES AND END DISCRIMINATION Ensure equal opportunity and reduce inequalities of outcome, including by eliminating discriminatory laws, policies and practices and promoting appropriate legislation, policies and action in this regard. Actions taken place • This year we have added more factories which are in compliance with international labour rights and regulations . • We have made sure that male and female workers are paid equally • They have suitable working environment for the female employees . • They have provided day care service for their female employees . • I have never seen so many female workers in any other suppliers I am working with .http://thekalerjatra.com/ women-empowerment-at-business/ • They have Trained and educated the employees about equal rights . Result No conflict or discrimination report has been submitted ! PRINCIPLE 10 ANTI-CORRUPTION Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery COMPANY POLICY Baldha Group fights against any forms of corruption including bribery, political influence, external pressure or extortion. SDG 16 Peace , Justice and Strong institutes Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable development , provide access to justice for all and build effective , accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels . ACTIONS TAKEN • We have developed and updated the company’s anti-corruption manual; every employee is trained and audited for knowing and applying it. • The possibility for signalling any corruption or bribing act was made available to all employees • We have continued our awareness program for Peace , Justice and strong institutions by our ‘ The Golden Boat Show • http://thekalerjatra.com/stand-against-corruption-during-the-corona-viruspandemic/ • We have promoted among our partners, customers, and public to aware about corruption and held seminars on ‘zero corruption’. • We have designed and implemented a robust anti bribery and corruption compliance program . • We have demonstrated ethical leadership by publishing a statement on human rights consistent with the UN guiding principles on business and human rights and shared with our stake holders and employees . RESULTS No employee has been involved in corruption actions ! Participation in Local and Gobal Network : • Participation in local net work is very important for us as it is equally important to participate in the Global net work . • Through the Local and Global net work’s Seminar and meetings on Multiple topics encourage and help us to move forward with our goals . • These trainings give us the opportunity to meet other networks Around the world • Most of the Seminars are based on team play role and we enjoy to know other companies and team members . • With refreshment and after a whole day training we are rewarded with certificates . • These Events and seminars also helps us with cutting edge Knowledge and technology to utilise in our business venture • This year we have joined UN ESCAP Sustainable Business Network, 7th meeting w. The meeting was held at United Nations Conference Centre (UNCC) Bangkok, Thailand 31 October 2019. ! ! How will we publicise this information? The 10 Principles will be made available to employees, suppliers, shareholders, mass media, as well as to the large audience on our website www.baldha.com Contact person Farah Mazid Saddha CEO Baldha Group +8801729860251 ceo@baldha.com, saddha.baldha@gmail.com, farahmazid@yahoo.com ! Thank you .
