UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2020 ® Great at Control Version 1.0 2020 Contents Statement of Continued Support 4-5 Human Rights Principles 6-7 Labor Rights Principles 8-9 Environmental Protection Principles 10-11 Anti-corruption Principles 12-13 ® Great at Control COP Report 2020 Statement of 4-5 Continued Support March 2, 2020 Mita-Teknik develops, produces and distributes advanced Our CSR Policy, which includes our Code of Conduct and control automation technology. Mita-Teknik has been part of Business Ethics, has been approved by the Mita-Teknik Global the control automation industry since 1969, and in the wind Management Team and the Board of Directors. industry since the early 1980s. We are one of the world’s leading suppliers of wind turbine control systems, and Our CSR Policy is based on the Ten Principles of the United has been an important contributor in developing the wind Nations Global Compact. industry to where it is today, as we have supplied more than 50,000 high performance control systems for wind turbines We have identified our prioritized sustainability issues, and in demanding environments around the world. In 2019, Mitahave initiated a process of optimizing these. We follow up on Teknik celebrated our 50th anniversary. A clear proof of a our progress on a yearly basis. strong track record and commitment to the industry. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our Our global customer base is divided on +47 active markets, actions to continually improve the integration of the UN Global which we serve from our global locations. Mita-Teknik’s Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture headquarter is located in Rødkærsbro in Denmark and with and daily operations. development activities in Ukraine, production, sales and support activities in China. We also commit to share this information with our employees, customers, suppliers and other stakeholders. I am pleased to confirm that Mita-Teknik reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anticorruption. Sincerely yours, Klaus Kromann Knudsen This is our Communication on Progress CEO, Mita-Teknik in implementing the principles of the United Nations Global Compact. We welcome feedback on its contents. ® Great at Control 6-7 Human Rights Performance Evaluation GDPR: In the past year, Mita-Teknik has not been subject to any In 2018, we implemented the new EU General Data Protection investigations, legal cases or incidents involving human rights Principles Regulation (GDPR). The GDPR replaced the Data Protection violations. No incidents or violations of the human rights Directive 95/46/EC and has been designed to harmonize data principles have been reported to the Global Management privacy laws across Europe, to protect and empower all EU Team. citizens’ data privacy and to reshape the way organizations across the region approach data privacy. In 2019, we continued our focus on GDPR and has been working on how to optimize the ways we work with data privacy in Mita-Teknik. CSR: We want to ensure that our suppliers are familiar with our CSR Commitment Implementation policies. Therefore, we have added an appendix to our existing partnership contracts with our suppliers that includes article Mita-Teknik respects cultural differences and does not do We take several actions to implement our CSR Policy and Code 24 ‘Code of Conduct’. business with a supplier if the supplier practices discrimination of Conduct in our global divisions. at work based on race, religion, gender, age, nationality or Action KPI Status * Target Include article New purchase Strategic sexual orientation. We have completed self-assessment surveys with all global 24 ‘Code of contracts must suppliers: divisions in order to ensure compliance. 100% for Conduct’ in include article 100% strategic and Currently, Mita-Teknik employs 147 people from 9 different new purchase 24 ‘Code of preferred contracts Conduct’ Preferred nationalities, working in 4 global divisions. 38% of our suppliers suppliers: employees are women and 62% are men. In our Global 68,00% Management team 42% are women and 58% are men. In the Other suppliers: 50% for other Board of Directors 33% are women and 67% are men. 20,00% suppliers No employee should ever be exposed to any physical punishment, threats of violence or physical, sexual, * Based on purchase in 2019 psychological or verbal harassment or maltreatment in the work place or in work-related situations. Mita-Teknik actively supports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We respect human rights within our sphere of influence and operate our business in a transparent and trustworthy way. Mita-Teknik sees no significant risks that the company or its suppliers violate the UN Global Compact Principles 1-2. ® Great at Control 8-9 Labor Rights Performance Evaluation Working Environment: In the past year, Mita-Teknik has not been subject to any In Mita-Teknik, we continuously collect information from our investigations, legal cases or incidents involving labor rights Principles global divisions in order to ensure complete compliance to violations. No incidents or violations of the labor rights international minimum standards in regards to working hours, principles have been reported to the Global Management compensation and absences. Team. We monitor the overall sickness absence on a monthly basis in order to detect employee health issues, and assess if follow-up actions are required. Action KPI Status Target Monitor the The overall sickness sikness 1,05% 2% Commitment Implementation absence absence must be below 2% Mita-Teknik commits to provide a competitive compensation We take several actions to implement our CSR Policy and Code package, a safe and comfortable working environment, openly of Conduct in our global divisions. communicated career paths and well-established performance In order to ensure safe working conditions, we also follow-up and development evaluation tools. We have completed self-assessment surveys with all global on all accidents and near-miss accidents. divisions in order to ensure compliance. Mita-Teknik respects the rights of workers and operate our Action KPI Status Target business with safe and attractive working conditions. We Certifications & Standards: Ensure safe Working 0 accidents 0 accidents working accidents respect the employees’ right to organize and enter collective Mita-Teknik’s Management System is audited annually to conditions Near-miss 0 near-miss 0 near-miss labor agreements and have zero tolerance for forced labor, ensure continued compliance with the ISO9001 standard. In accidents accidents accidents child labor and discrimination. 2018, we updated our ISO system and was globally audited against the ISO9001:2015. In 2019, we completed the ISO Mita-Teknik has a dedicated Health and Safety Committee in 9001:2015 Certification Audit in Denmark and Ukraine. place to regularly assess and evaluate the working environment in Mita-Teknik. Further, Mita-Teknik (Ningbo) is audited annually to ensure compliance with the OHSAS18001 standard. in 2019, we Mita-Teknik sees no significant risks that the company or its successfully passed the external EHS (Environment, Health suppliers violate the UN Global Compact Principles 3-6. and Safety) Audit in Ningbo. We are continiously working on implementing the APQP4Wind standard. The main goal for Mita-Teknik to implement the APQP4Wind is our continuously focus on improving product quality. ® Great at Control Environmental 10-11 Protection Principles Commitment At Mita-Teknik, we encourage the development and diffusion Travel Activity: of environmentally friendly technologies. We actively support a We continue to focus on reduced travel activity. Global travel sustainable environmental progress through the development policies have been implemented to ensure that we reduce our and distribution of intelligent control solutions for the wind travel activities as much as possible with respect for running industry, which improves the performance of wind turbines, our business. and the overall competitiveness of ‘clean’ wind generated energy. Performance Evaluation Mita-Teknik supports a precautionary approach to environmental challenges, and undertakes initiatives to In the past year, Mita-Teknik has not been subject to any promote greater environmental responsibility. investigations, legal cases or incidents involving violations to the environmental protection principles. No incidents or Overall, we consider our production process to have a relatively violations of the environmental protection principles have low impact on the environment, however we do recognize that been reported to the Global Management Team. parts of our production and transports have a negative impact on the environment, and we constantly work to minimize these effects. Implementation At Mita-Teknik, we actively support a sustainable and environmentally friendly progress. We have completed self-assessment surveys with all global divisions in order to ensure compliance. Waste Management: Our waste management is in compliance with all applicable national laws and regulations, and we educate our employees in this area. ® Great at Control Anti-corruption 12-13 Principles Commitment Corruption and bribery are recognized as barriers to sustainable In 2017, we introduced a global whistleblower scheme. During development and free trade, and Mita-Teknik supports the 2019, we did not receive any cases. work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Action KPI Status Target Global Cases that call 0 cases 0 cases whistle-blower for legal action Mita-Teknik acknowledges that minor business gifts and programme moderate entertainment, including meals, are accepted ways to build relationships. This practice must however always be conducted in a transparent way, and only to an extent appropriate to our integrity guidelines and business ethics. Performance Evaluation In the past year, Mita-Teknik has not been subject to any Implementation investigations, legal cases or incidents involving anticorruption violations. No incidents or violations of the Guidelines for handling issues of corruption, hospitality (gifts anti-corruption principles have been reported to the Global and entertainment) and donations are provided to employees Management Team. through our Business Ethics document, CSR Policy and Code of Conduct. All presents that are sent from customers and suppliers to employees at Mita-Teknik are collected and distributed via lottery. It is not allowed to have presents from customers or suppliers sent to a private address. Presents to employees must be sent to Mita-Teknik. The same applies for prizes and gifts that are won in a competition, in which they participate via their job. This policy is stated in our Employee Handbook. We have completed self-assessment surveys with all global divisions in order to ensure compliance. ® Great at Control ® Great at Control We Make Wind Competitive © 2020 Mita-Teknik. All rights reserved. Content may not be reproduced in any form without written permission from Mita-Teknik Denmark Version R1_0, 2020
