Report on Sustainability 2020 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change CEO message As I write this, the world is contending with the health and economic effects of a global pandemic which has not only impacted lives, but has brought about disruptions to financial markets, businesses, and the way we work and live. Mark Little president and chief executive officer This crisis is highlighting how interconnected environmental, social and economic systems are. Responding and recovering from the effects of the pandemic and fostering resiliency will require cooperation and collaboration among all stakeholders. Our collective actions can have an enormous impact when we work together to find solutions. At Suncor we use our purpose – Our purpose embodies to provide trusted energy that enhances people’s lives, while caring for each other and our commitment to the earth – to guide our decisions and actions. sustainability and is our As much as our world has changed through COVID-19, Suncor remains fully committed to our strategy, sustainability leadership and our role in the energy transition to a low-carbon future. guide in these times of Our commitment is unwavering and continues to be at the heart of everything we do. uncertainty. We all have a We continue to see outstanding progress being made on the social goal we’ve set, including role to play in our shared increasing the participation of Indigenous Peoples in energy development. In 2019, we spent more than $800 million with Indigenous businesses, representing 8% of our total supply chain energy future. spend. We have also increased the number of Petro-Canada™ stations that are Indigenous-owned Mark Little and operated. But success is more than just metrics; we also continue to reflect on whether our president and chief executive officer efforts are leading to cultural shifts and behavioural changes in how we work with and learn from Indigenous Peoples. That said, ongoing racist and discriminatory events in the United States and Canada have underscored deep and systemic societal bias – highlighting that more work is required, and deepening Suncor’s commitment to inclusion and diversity, and creating a respectful workplace. ™ Trademark of Suncor Energy Inc. Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 2 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change CEO message Ensuring the personal safety of our employees and contractors is a Petro-Canada™ stations across Canada, which we completed in 2019. continuing priority. Safety is at the core of Suncor’s values and we We know our customers want options to reduce their carbon footprint, moved quickly to respond to the COVID-19 pandemic to ensure the and Canada’s Electric Highway™ is one way that Suncor, through its health and safety of our workforce in all our locations. We used our Petro-Canada™ brand, can support reducing emissions by providing discipline in health and safety to work with health officials to think Canadians with lower carbon choices for their energy needs. through every scenario and develop detailed protocols, which we When it comes to our environmental performance, I am proud of the shared with industry and companies around the world. While I’m proud progress in key areas such as improved water recycling rates at our Oil of our response to the pandemic, our operational safety performance in Sands Base Plant. I’m also pleased with the progress we’ve made on 2019 demonstrates that we still have work to do. We saw an increase tailings. With the implementation of permanent aquatic storage system in personal safety incidents, reminding us we must focus on safety (PASS), we now treat more tailings than we produce in a year which every day so that we all go home healthy. means we’re reducing the inventory of legacy fluid tailings on site. When we consider what sustainability for the future looks like, we have I encourage you to read the 2020 Report on Sustainability to learn about to address one of the most complex challenges the world faces and a all the ways Suncor is working to operate in a sustainable manner. critical focus for Suncor – climate change. We continue to take steps to reduce emissions across all our facilities. This means continuing to Our purpose embodies our commitment to sustainability and is our guide work towards our 2030 commitment to reduce our total emissions in these times of uncertainty. We all have a role to play in our shared intensity by 30% as well as developing more ambitious approaches to energy future. The more people that are engaged, and the more we sustainability beyond our 2030 commitments. collaborate with our peers, governments and others, the greater our likelihood of success. When we look back years from now, we will be In support of our current climate goal, we announced a $1.4 billion proud of our collective action of working together to build a better future. investment in a new cogeneration facility at our Oil Sands Base which will replace coke-fired boilers with more energy efficient, natural gasfired cogeneration units, and is expected to reduce GHG emissions from our Base Plant by approximately 25%. I am equally excited about our plans to invest in the $300 million Forty Mile Wind Power Project in southern Alberta, which once in commercial service, will generate double-digit economic returns through zero carbon power generation. Unfortunately, we have had to extend the timeline to develop both projects by up to two years due the current market situation – a strong reminder that our investments in low-carbon innovations depend on Mark Little the financial health of our business. president and chief executive officer Another way we are contributing to Canada’s climate commitments is through the country’s first electric highway – a coast to coast network of more than 50 fast-charging electric vehicle chargers at ™ Trademark of Suncor Energy Inc. Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 3 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change ESG highlights ~10% reduction* $33 million 351 million in GHG emission intensity since 2014 community investments total barrels of oil equivalent Additional 10% sanctioned produced and refined $3.1 million Canada’s largest 22.78 million tonnes CO e employee donations ethanol facility 2 Absolute GHG emissions in 2019 400 million litres produced in 2019 $836 million New 2°C supply chain spend with Indigenous businesses in 2019 ~5,000 scenario vendors across Canada helps us assess the resilience of our long-term strategy FORT MCMURRAY EDMONTON ST. JOHN’S VANCOUVER LONDON CALGARY REFINERY MONTREAL MINING AND IN SITU OPERATIONS TORONTO OFFSHORE OPERATIONS WIND POWER PROJECT BIOFUELS DENVER PETRO-CANADA™ ELECTRIC VEHICLE CHARGING NETWORK 49% 2,400MW Completed Canada’s Electric Indigenous ownership in the operational and sanctioned $1.0 billion East Tank Farm low-carbon power equivalent to Highway™ 2.25M homes’ electricity a coast-to-coast electric vehicle (EV) use per year fast-charging network spanning more than 50 Petro-Canada™ stations *We expect there to be impacts to our GHG intensity due to government mandated production curtailment and COVID-19 impact on demand. Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 4 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change ESG highlights Greenhouse gases BASELINE 2014 Driving real reductions in the global energy system CO2 Energy efficiency • >50% lower GHG intensity at our newest 2030 TARGET Fort Hills mine vs. oil sands average New technology • ~2.5 Mt/y GHG reductions from newly sanctioned GHG cogeneration facility goal equivalent to avoiding emissions from 550,000 Reducing Low-carbon fuels passenger vehicles per year emissions intensity by • ~0.4 Mt/y GHG emissions avoided from newly 30% by sanctioned Forty Mile Wind Power Project 2030 Low-carbon power equivalent to avoiding emissions from 85,000 passenger vehicles per year Water, tailings and reclamation High water recycle rates in upstream operations 100% 2,795 ha increase in annual fluid tailings reclaimed since 1967 treatment with new PASS process, 92% reducing legacy tailings equivalent to 5,223 football fields Oil Sands Base Plant 96-100% Suncor’s Wapisiw Lookout Firebag & MacKay River in situ facilities First reclaimed oil sands tailings pond Technology and innovation Governance Board diversity Next generation extraction Management diversity • 50-70% potential GHG reductions and lower water use through solvents-based processes 25-year history of Advanced low-carbon fuels sustainability reporting $830M • Lower downstream emissions Carbon is a principal risk technology • Converting waste streams to useful products with full board oversight investment Digitalization 40% 34% 66% 60% Executive remuneration • Improved safety and costs FEMALE FEMALE MALE MALE tied to ESG performance • Autonomous haul trucks • Drones and remote sensing 100% independent chair and committees Cleantech venture capital • Evok Innovations • ArcTern Ventures Indigenous representation on board since 2000 • Enerkem Inc. • LanzaTech Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 5 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change Table of contents n Executive summary n Environment 68 CEO message 2 Air quality 69 ESG highlights 4 Water stewardship 71 Tailings management 76 n About our report 7 Land and reclamation 79 n Strategy and governance 9 Biodiversity 81 Our purpose 10 n Communities 84 Sustainability Q and A 11 Community investment 85 Sustainability goals 13 Indigenous relations 88 UN Sustainable Development Goals 14 Social goal 89 Corporate governance 16 Strengthening relationships 90 Risk management 18 Partnering with Indigenous youth 91 Innovation 20 Partnering with Indigenous businesses 92 Engagement 25 and communities Improving Indigenous workforce 93 n Our business 26 development Operations summary 27 Economic impact 29 n Appendix 94 Supply chain 30 Performance data 95 Personal and process safety 33 Performance data footnotes 101 Inclusion and diversity 37 Independent assurance statement 110 GRI and SASB disclosure index 112 n Climate change 39 TCFD disclosure index 124 CFO message 40 UNGC communication on progress 125 Our perspective 41 Advisories 127 Leading energy system transformation 42 Governance 45 Climate-related risk management 46 Strategy 49 Metrics and targets 60 Low-carbon innovation 65 Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 6 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change About our report Our Report on Sustainability reflects our commitment to continually monitor and assess the impacts and benefits of our business, and effectively share these efforts. We value disclosure as a foundation for engagement and support efforts to drive consistency and comparability of sustainability performance data. Scope Reporting frameworks We present our sustainability priorities and key performance metrics, We use a number of reporting frameworks to identify and report on reflecting consolidated company-wide data only for the assets we our material sustainability factors, including: operate (unless otherwise stated). More detailed facility and business • Global Reporting Initiative Standards – in accordance with Core segment performance, where applicable, is available for download on standards, and informed by oil and gas sector supplement guidelines sustainability.suncor.com. • IPIECA sector-specific sustainability reporting guidance for the oil Our 2019 Annual Report provides financial performance and and gas industry information about our business. • Sustainability Accounting Standards Board industry-specific standards • Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosure Reporting period recommendations Performance data presented in this report reflects our activities from • United Nations Global Compact – this report fulfills our Jan. 1 to Dec. 31, 2019, unless otherwise stated. Where possible (or as Communication on Progress, and supports their 10 principles guiding appropriate) we’ve included historical data trends. Information regarding our approach to sustainability events or activities in the first half of 2020 may also be included. • United Nations Sustainable Development Goals – we support Third-party review and assurance these 2030 global development priorities, and share our perspectives on contributing to a number of these goals through our work. Ernst & Young LLP performed review-level assurance on selected performance indicators for the year ended Dec. 31, 2019 driven by For more information about our disclosures against these reporting various reporting frameworks and sector disclosures. Refer to the standards, see the Appendix. Appendix for the 2020 independent assurance statement. Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 7 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change About our report Materiality: Identifying Material sustainability priorities sustainability priorities Indigenous Peoples and communities and our stakeholders consider these priorities critically important and, for our business to be successful, they An important step in preparing our Report on Sustainability is to review require innovative, strategic approaches and commitment to operational the most relevant sustainability priorities for our business and those that excellence across all functions of our organization. matter most to our stakeholders. In early 2018, we conducted a formal materiality assessment to ensure Safety and reliability we accurately considered a broad range of perspectives. We were Suncor is committed to incident prevention and believes that a zerosupported by a third party with expertise in sustainability reporting and incident workplace is achievable. We continue to work to improve facilitating materiality assessments to evaluate our priority topics for our process safety and reliability performance – safety above all else. Report on Sustainability. We review priorities for our report annually to define issues that are of Climate change relative significance to environmental, social, governance and economic The world needs action to reduce carbon emissions and avoid the priorities and their impacts (both positive and negative) to both our worst effects of climate change. business and to our stakeholders. The following internal practices are used to identify and assess sustainability priorities across our business Indigenous relations and topics for our report: As a pillar of our social goal, the trust and support of stakeholders and Indigenous communities are valuable to Suncor Input and foundational to successful energy development. • Stakeholder engagement: Build and maintain relationships with local communities, Indigenous Peoples and stakeholders, and meaningfully Water stewardship consider their issues and concerns affected by our operations or Water is a shared and precious resource. Suncor’s integrated water who could, through their actions, affect our business. For more management approach balances optimizing our water use practices information please see the Engagement section of this report. with technological innovation to sustainably manage water. • Issues research: Conduct ad hoc issue research, peer benchmarking and review of previously identified priority sustainability topics. Other significant priorities • Trends: Assess trends and conduct best practice analysis, including Other significant priorities were also identified and our performance or reporting best-practices. approach to these priorities are listed below and included throughout our report. Topics that were evaluated, but not reported on, are Analysis managed, tracked internally and monitored in the context of an • Rank and prioritize topics considering a range of perspectives internally ever-changing external landscape. Our approach to technology and and externally through both workshops and knowledge sharing. innovation is a key theme of this report and is closely related to many of • Evaluation in line with our annual enterprise risk management process. the priorities identified in our materiality assessment. • Informed by a number of sustainability reporting frameworks to Our business Environment determine relevance. • governance and ethics • tailings management • health and wellness • land use and reclamation Assessment • compliance • biodiversity The prioritization of topics, which could have a significant impact on • economic impact • air quality Suncor’s business success or that would substantively influence the • public policy • cumulative impacts assessments and decisions of stakeholders over the next one-three years. • inclusion and diversity • spills • market access Social • community investment and social innovation • stakeholder engagement Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 8 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change To live Suncor’s purpose of providing trusted energy, we’ve embraced long-term thinking and strategies. With sound governance and committed leadership, we have a created a strong foundation for resilient and sustainable energy development. › Our purpose › Sustainability Q and A › Sustainability goals Strategy and › UN Sustainable Development Goals › Corporate governance › Risk management governance › Innovation › Engagement Understanding our purpose Q and A with our chief sustainability officer $830 million invested in technology development, deployment and digitalization How we contribute to 17 United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change Our purpose To provide trusted energy that enhances people’s lives, while caring for each other and the earth Our purpose is an important link between our commitment to Energy plays a fundamental role in everyone’s lives. The energy we provide sustainability and our business strategy. It reflects Suncor’s role in is secure, reliable and essential, enabling mobility, heat, and light to power society and how we see ourselves producing profitable solutions to communities. Energy underpins our health, quality of life, and economy. societal and environmental challenges and opportunities. Our purpose But providing trusted energy is a complex challenge, especially as we aligns what we do, who we are and what we stand for. By guiding our try to find a path forward that has a positive impact on both people decisions and actions, our purpose helps us build resilience in a world and the planet. It will take all of us, working together across the energy facing global challenges and shapes our future. system, to enable Canada’s transformation towards a low-carbon future. Living our purpose Throughout the COVID-19 response, we have been focused on caring for each other and our communities. Here are some of the ways we are living our purpose. Special delivery to the north After conversations with the federal government, Suncor procured, donated and delivered 40,000 N95 masks to Nunavut, the Northwest Territories and the Yukon – communities the Government of Small acts of kindness Canada determined most needed Repurposing our work Petro-Canada™ provided $3 million to thank these essential supplies. We reallocated funding, equipment and essential workers and recognize Canadians expertise from wastewater treatment across the country. Associates at our Petroresearch to Western University in Canada™ locations gave out everything Ontario to develop a fast and affordable from fuel discounts to showers and meals. COVID-19 home-test kit. The same technology and equipment to sequence genes in bacteria found in wastewater is the same as identifying genes in algae to produce proteins from COVID samples to use in test kits for antibodies. Every contribution counts Suncor and the Suncor Energy Foundation Working with partners donated outdated SunCares T-shirts to Suncor provided financial support to Exergy be repurposed into face-mask ties (nonSolutions to create 200 emergency ventilators medical grade) for front-line responders that were donated to Alberta Health and local communities in southern Alberta. Services to support the COVID-19 response. Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 10 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change Sustainability Q and A Q and A Martha Hall Findlay joined Suncor as chief sustainability officer in early 2020. As a member of Suncor’s senior executive team, she provides leadership in environmental and social performance, in supporting Suncor’s public policy, communications and government relations as well as deepening the company’s Indigenous and stakeholder relationships. With a fresh perspective on sustainability at Suncor, Martha discusses the challenges, what we are doing to continue – and enhance – our track record as a sustainability leader, and what the future holds. Martha Hall Findlay chief sustainability officer Canada and the world have been greatly impacted by that a healthy core business is what enables us to look after people, several global challenges – COVID-19, challenging financial ensure prosperity for Canadians, and make the investments needed to markets and a dramatic decline in economic activity. What transform to a low-carbon economy. does this mean for Suncor? Can you tell us more about Suncor’s approach to If anything, the first few months of 2020 have highlighted the sustainability? importance, and the full meaning, of sustainability. The UN 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development refers to itself as “a plan of ESG metrics – environmental, social and governance criteria – are action for people, planet and prosperity.” The world has been increasingly the global measurement standards for sustainability. reminded that true sustainability involves all three together. At Suncor, Although considerable efforts are underway to detail those metrics, the long-term focus on people, the planet, and prosperity – is built into ESG basics are pretty clear: operate with care for the environment, our purpose, “To provide trusted energy that enhances people’s lives, for society and the people in it, and do so honestly and transparently. while caring for each other and the earth.” These three focus areas have been key to Suncor’s principles and values for decades – new labels don’t change that. This report goes into great Throughout the pandemic, we provided an essential service, supplying detail on our work in all areas, our pride in our successes, and our the trusted, reliable and affordable energy required for heating efforts to do more. and lighting our homes; all manner of manufacturing; growth and production of food; transportation of supplies and goods across Although the ‘S’ and ‘G’ are both critical parts of the full ESG Canada; and the health, education and myriad of other services we requirements, as an energy company, particularly with operations in the depend on. As a newcomer to Suncor, I have been particularly proud oil sands, our environmental performance is under particular scrutiny. of the focus on the health, safety and economic well-being of our We agree that reducing emissions is key, and because GHGs don’t pay employees, their families and the communities we work in and with. attention to political borders, it is a global challenge that requires global cooperation. Suncor is focused on finding reductions through improving On the economic front, COVID-19 has created deep challenges for our existing processes and developing new energy technologies, and us. And it’s meant that unfortunately we have had to delay some also engaging both nationally and globally to collaborate with others to important sustainability efforts such as replacing our coke-fired boilers find solutions. If there is a positive aspect to COVID-19, it’s highlighted at Base Plant with low-carbon cogeneration units and our Forty Mile what can be accomplished when businesses, governments and society Wind Power Project. In all, the pandemic has provided a stark reminder work together. Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 11 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change Sustainability Q and A As for the Social and Governance components, many parts of the Not only is this part of offering our customers low-carbon choices, it world, including many energy supplying jurisdictions, struggle with encourages more people to consider an electric vehicle by reducing corruption, human rights abuses, intimidation of media and other ‘range anxiety’ – a key barrier to significant market penetration. forms of oppression. As a proudly Canadian company, we at Suncor We have more than 20 years of sustainability reporting, demonstrating appreciate Canada’s rule of law, our strong regulatory system, and our commitment to improve social systems, generate economic value the high standards we have for corporate governance and financial and improve our environmental performance. We also know there is markets. And people and communities are integral to our purpose. much more work to be done. That’s another reason I joined Suncor – Sustainability at Suncor also includes strengthening relationships with the opportunity to find ever more solutions is ours to seize. Indigenous communities to build greater trust – listening, learning, and seeking mutually beneficial ways to partner with them in energy What does energy transformation mean for Suncor? development. And our people are critical. Good jobs, fair pay, respect, inclusion and diversity are all things we strive for within our company. It means being a part of the global movement to low-carbon and noWe also want to encourage our industry peers, our suppliers and our carbon forms of energy that are affordable and accessible. Our business customers to consider all elements of sustainability and to join us to is energy. By definition, transformation takes time, and during that continuously improve. time, Suncor has, and will have two key roles: • for as long as there is global demand for oil, to supply that oil as What would you say to those who say that the oil sands environmentally and as socially responsibly as possible; and are part of the problem and not the solution? • to continue as a leading energy supplier by meeting the desire for For the governments, producers, suppliers and consumers concerned lower carbon energy sources. about GHG emissions – and for us as Suncor – oil sands activities are As a fully integrated energy company, we’re well poised to be part of a GHG challenge that we are working to solve. We are continuously that transformation because we know all aspects of the business, and innovating to meet evolving energy needs while tackling pressing can apply our knowledge, collaborating with others, in many areas of environmental challenges like climate change. There isn’t an easy or research and development. quick solution to transform to a low-carbon energy future. It will take original thinking, collaboration and commitment. Your sustainability goals take you to 2030. What’s the plan The more we reduce per barrel, the closer we are to establishing after that? Canadian oil as a lower GHG source than others. We are working hard We’re encouraged to see ambition around the world for net zero and to make Canada’s oil a lower carbon, preferred source of oil. we share that ambition. Right now, we are focused on determining To that end, the oil sands industry is one of Canada’s largest markets more precisely what our goal should be, and how we’ll get there – the for, and investors in, clean technology. Suncor has decades of investments we need to make and the actions we need to take now, expertise, skill and knowledge being applied to the emerging energy and for the long term. I’m excited about the thoughtful work we’re diversification economies. doing, so that when we announce our sustainability ambitions, it’s clear to our stakeholders and our communities that we are serious about What progress has Suncor made so far? taking action and allocating capital towards it. We’ve already achieved more than a third of our goal of reducing our What do you wish people asked you but didn’t? emissions per barrel by 30% by 2030, with another third identified in sanctioned projects. This includes our new cogeneration facility and our I would love more people to ask me why I joined Suncor, given Forty Mile Wind Power Project, which will help green Alberta’s electrical that I loved the work I was doing in public policy. I’ve been lucky to grid and avoid the equivalent emissions of 635,000 passenger vehicles experience different careers in law, business and politics. In all cases, per year. While we’ve had to push the timeline on these projects as a I felt a drive to help make a difference and to improve the social and result of market conditions, intensity improvements will be significant economic prosperity of Canadians. I have also been an environmentalist when both come online. for as long as I can remember. I knew Suncor as a company of people with great purpose, principles, values and ambition. Right now, we are We’re also proud of the completion of Canada’s Electric Highway™ at a critical juncture within the global energy industry – which provides in 2019: the country’s first coast-to-coast a network of fast-charging an extraordinary time of opportunity – for Suncor and for Canada. I am electric vehicle (EV) chargers at more than 50 Petro-Canada™ stations thrilled for the chance to be part of the path forward. across Canada, enabling a fully-electric drive across the entire country. Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 12 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change Sustainability goals Suncor’s sustainability goals reflect our focused efforts on strengthening relationships with Indigenous Peoples and communities in Canada, and harnessing technology and innovation to reduce our greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity. We established our social and GHG goals in 2016 as guideposts to drive performance improvement. More detail about these goals and our commitments are in various sections of this report. › Social goal › GHG goal Strengthening our relationships with Indigenous Reducing our GHG emissions intensity communities across Canada We share in the global challenge to address climate change by Our social goal reflects our commitment to change the way we harnessing technology and innovation to set us on a pathway think and act as an organization to build greater mutual trust to a low-carbon energy system. We aim to reduce total and respect with the Indigenous Peoples of Canada. The goal emissions intensity of the production of our oil and petroleum outlines four areas to focus on where we can work together products by 30% by 2030. to advance greater participation of Indigenous Peoples and communities in energy development. Our plans for water stewardship and biodiversity › Water › Biodiversity Suncor is committed to water stewardship and we are developing Suncor is committed to preserving and promoting biodiversity a robust framework that will more meaningfully focus our future in all areas where we work. This includes the conservation of efforts on water. high-value areas and habitats, and reclamation of the sites we disturb. Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 13 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change UN Sustainable Development Goals Suncor supports the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals and shares the view that businesses have a key role to play in the implementation of these goals. The United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) define global development priorities for 2030. They address the global challenges including those related to poverty, inequality, climate, environmental degradation, prosperity, and peace and justice, and reflect an integrated conversation on sustainability. The objective is for businesses, governments and civil society to cooperate and collaborate on a defined set of targets to drive meaningful change. We recognize Suncor’s business activities can have both a positive and a negative impact on the SDGs. Through our initiatives and activities, our work contributes to all 17 goals. We have prioritized Suncor’s focus areas for specific SDGs and have highlighted our contributions in action: Achieve gender equality and Ensure access to affordable, reliable, empower women and girls sustainable and modern energy for all • inclusion and diversity strategies and action • advancing a portfolio of technologies to lower plans across the enterprise the carbon intensity of producing bitumen • unconscious bias training to provide learning opportunities to and improve cost competitiveness eliminate bias and increase cultural competency • our renewable power portfolio, including a partnership with • workshops with involvement from employees and leaders Aamjiwnaang First Nation in the Adelaide Wind Power Project across Suncor to ensure employee voices are heard near Sarnia, Ont. • using cogeneration, a carbon-efficient form of baseload power generation at our oil sands facilities, and exporting excess low-carbon electricity to the Alberta provincial grid Ensure availability and sustainable • investing in biofuels, including the largest ethanol facility in management of water and Canada and investments in biofuel technologies sanitation for all • partnering with Canada’s Oil Sands Innovation Alliance (COSIA) to achieve the COSIA water goals, and to generate water-related technologies and innovative ideas targeting efficiency improvements across the oil and gas industry Once again, we are pleased to • convened under COSIA, Suncor and the Water Technology Development Centre (WTDC) partners, Canadian Natural, demonstrate our support for the United Husky and CNOOC International, developed the $140 million Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and its WTDC, a first-of-its-kind demonstration site for oil sands project partner companies to test water treatment technologies at a 10 principles, which guide our approach commercial scale to human rights, labour, environment and • implementation of water efficiency and treatment programs anti-corruption for all our operations. at our refineries Mark Little president and chief executive officer Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 14 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change UN Sustainable Development Goals Promote sustained, inclusive and Ensure sustainable consumption and sustainable economic growth, full production patterns and productive employment and • developing a supply chain sustainability decent work for all strategy to accelerate progress on the • partnering with companies and organizations environmental and social impacts of our such as Evok Innovations, COSIA and Clean Resource procurement decisions Innovations Network (CRIN) to promote and support the • investments in businesses such as Enerkem, a company which growing ecosystem of entrepreneurship focused on clean manufactures biofuels and renewable chemical products from energy research and technology solutions household garbage that would otherwise be landfilled • implementing Suncor’s social goal to partner with Indigenous • launching Canada’s first coast-to-coast electric charging businesses and communities, including: network through Petro-Canada™ – an equity partnership in the East Tank Farm Development with Mikisew Cree First Nation and Fort McKay First Nation in northern Alberta. The East Tank Farm Development agreement was chosen as a best practice example for the Take urgent action to combat climate Sustainable Development Goals Emerging Practice Guide change and its impacts by the Canadian network of the United Nations Global • actively working towards our long-term GHG Compact, Global Compact Network Canada goal to reduce emissions across our operations – an equity partnership in PetroNor, a distributor of petroleum • understanding and reporting on carbon risk products owned and operated by the James Bay Cree First and resiliency, and being a signatory to the Task Force on Nation in Quebec Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) • supporting organizations who share our vision in developing • partnering with industry to launch the Alberta Carbon Conversion skills and ensuring career success for youth, women, and Technology Centre to test carbon capture, and conversion Indigenous communities, such as Keyano College technologies alongside other researchers and innovators Build resilient infrastructure, Our approach to sustainability continues to contribute directly promote inclusive and sustainable and indirectly to the UN 2030 agenda. We look for partnership industrialization and foster opportunities to deliver change at scale. We are committed to innovation supporting a number of aligned initiatives, including: • partnering with COSIA to develop the Alberta • The UN Global Compact’s 10 principles. Our commitment to and Carbon Conversion Technology Centre, a test facility for implementation of the principles are integrated throughout this report. initiatives such as the NRG COSIA Carbon XPRIZE • The ambition of the Paris Climate Agreement and contributing to • being a founding member of CRIN, an organization which development of low-carbon policies, such as the Pan-Canadian focuses on creating connections for our resource sector, to Framework on Clean Growth and Climate Change. advance technologies for use in Canada and global markets • The Truth and Reconciliation Commission’s Call to Action for • participating in Energy Futures Lab, which aims to strengthen the corporate sector to adopt United Nations Declaration on the Alberta and Canada’s position as a global energy leader Rights of Indigenous Peoples as a reconciliation framework for its and Engineering Change Lab, a collaborative platform for relationship with the Indigenous Peoples in Canada. stewarding the application of science and technology Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 15 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change Corporate governance Through sound governance and committed leadership, we have created a strong foundation for resilient energy development. Suncor’s robust governance structure includes our board and its committees, together with our executive management team, whose remuneration is impacted by corporate performance on environmental, social and governance initiatives. The board’s responsibilities include governance, strategic planning and the stewardship of Suncor, including identifying and mitigating principal risks such as carbon risk. A diverse and experienced board Suncor’s board aims to have directors with a range of perspectives, insights and views on the issues affecting the organization. It searches for members from diverse backgrounds, having regard to gender, members of visible minorities, Indigenous status, age, persons with disabilities, business experience, professional expertise, personal skills, stakeholder perspectives, geographic background and other diverse attributes. The aspiration of the board diversity policy is to 30% Club of Canada maintain at least 30% gender diversity. The company has a diverse and experienced board, which has had Indigenous representation for two decades, and is comprised of 40% female directors. Suncor is a proud supporter of the 30% Club of Canada, a not-for-profit organization focused Board 25-year history of on the continued drive toward diversity sustainability reporting achieving greater gender balance Management at all levels, including a goal of diversity Carbon is a principal risk 30% women on boards by 2022. with full board oversight Suncor’s board is comprised of 40% 34% 66% 60% Executive remuneration 40% female directors. FEMALE FEMALE MALE MALE tied to ESG performance 100% independent chair and committees Indigenous representation on board since 2000 Environment, social and governance (ESG) ESG factors play a role in director recruitment, board evaluation and committee representation. The board revised its skills matrix in 2017 to ensure skills and experience in environment, health, safety and social responsibility were desired competencies. For more information on the Board Skill Matrix, visit our 2020 Management Proxy Circular Suncor’s board practices on performance evaluation and compensation consider ESG factors by: • evaluating senior executive performance annually against well-defined goals that support and reinforce our value drivers • considering our performance against enterprise-wide sustainability goals related to safety, environmental (including GHGs) and social performance in determining the amount of annual incentive payments to the CEO. Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 16 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change Corporate governance Chief sustainability officer (CSO) Suncor’s first-ever chief sustainability officer was appointed in 2017. In 2020, Martha Hall Findlay joined Suncor as chief sustainability officer following Eric Axford’s retirement. In this role, Martha plays a key role in stewarding Suncor’s many external relationships and strategic collaborations in support of the company’s ongoing economic, environmental and social performance leadership. Martha oversees Suncor’s sustainability strategy, public policy and government relations efforts, and internal and external communications. She is responsible for the continued deepening of the company’s Indigenous, stakeholder, and community relations, as well as being accountable for Suncor’s social innovation agenda, including through her involvement on the board of the Martha Hall Findlay, chief sustainability officer, presenting at GLOBE Forum 2020 Suncor Energy Foundation. Suncor’s governance structure Effective corporate governance comes from leadership and good corporate structure. Economic, environmental and social issues aren’t considered separately but evaluated holistically as part of Suncor’s strategic decision-making process. This continues to inform our corporate structure. Key features of this governance structure include: • our board and its committees, which have clearly defined and distinct oversight roles to protect the interests of our shareholders set out in terms of reference • the board’s Environment, Health, Safety and Sustainable Development (EHS&SD) Committee, which monitors management’s performance in areas within its mandate • our executive management team, which integrates key operational and functional accountabilities for maximum efficiency and effectiveness, including a chief sustainability officer. EHS&SD Committee The EHS&SD Committee of the board oversees and manages matters relating to environmental, health, safety and sustainable development. The committee meets quarterly to review: • recommendations to the board about Suncor’s strategies and policies on environmental, health, safety and sustainable development • Suncor’s Operational Excellence Management System (an overarching framework to manage operational risk) • management’s performance and emerging trends and issues in the environmental, health, safety and sustainable development space to ensure we are anticipating future challenges and positioning ourselves to minimize risks • management stewardship reports as well as the findings of significant external and internal environmental, health and safety investigations, assessments, reviews and audits. Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 17 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change Risk management Risk management is fundamental to achieving our business goals and requires a culture of operational discipline. We make risk-informed decisions that reflect our culture of embedding Identifying principal risks sustainability considerations and are governed by our guiding principles Principal risks are risks that have the potential to materially impact our for risk management. ability to meet or support our strategic objectives. In the constantly This requires ongoing identification, assessment, treatment and evolving energy business, new risks can emerge and established risks monitoring of risks inherent to our assets, activities and operations. can take on new forms or orders of magnitude. Some of these risks are common to operations, while some are We manage identification of new principal risks through our critical unique to Suncor. Our risk management program is aligned with the and principal risk processes. These risks are further outlined in our International Organization for Standardization guidelines (the ISO Management’s Discussion and Analysis, and include: 31000 Risk management – Guidelines), which were also adopted by the Standards Council of Canada. The guidelines provide principles, a • carbon risk framework and a process for managing risk. • commodity price Our risk management practice is governed by our risk management policy, • cumulative impact and pace of change and supported through processes and tools such as risk management • government and regulatory policy standards and the risk matrix to effectively identify and assess risk across • digital and cybersecurity the enterprise. This policy and supporting tools drive a culture of being: • major operational incident (safety, environmental and reliability) • Proactive: We do the right thing by identifying and managing risk • market access in advance. • portfolio, development and execution • Transparent: We encourage openness and honesty about our risks. We actively provide and seek out information so we can make better decisions. • tailings management, dam integrity and mine closure. • Consistent: We are disciplined in doing the right thing, the right way to achieve excellence in risk management. Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 18 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change Risk management Risk governance aligned with our purpose to continually improve our performance. It further promotes: All levels of our organization are engaged in our enterprise risk management (ERM) program. Suncor’s Board of Directors and Audit • systematic management of operation risk committee are accountable for oversight of our principal risks and • achievement of our operational objectives ensure systems are in place to manage their impact. Individual business • prevention and mitigation of environmental and social impacts units and functions regularly identify, mitigate and report on critical • development and sharing of best practices. risks in their areas of business. This co-ordinated approach fosters a culture of risk governance throughout the enterprise. The management review cycle, with leadership engagement and support, ensures continual improvement and identification of material Risk responsibility, accountability and ownership are appropriately assigned opportunities to progress. Our ISO 14001 and 9001 certified facilities to ensure management of identified risks. Dedicated risk coordinators are are also subject to regular external audits. embedded in each function and are instrumental in building risk awareness and competency across the business to ensure proper oversight of risk. Measures are in place to ensure risk management decisions are properly Sustainability considerations in and effectively implemented and monitored. project development When initiating new projects, our governance framework ensures we All principal risks must be reported annually to the Board of Directors continually raise the bar by systematically embedding sustainability and Audit committee. Reporting includes details on what’s being done considerations into planning and decision-making. This process is consistent to address these risks, how the risks are being monitored and any with our purpose and commitment to strong environmental performance, changes in the risk profile. thoughtful collaboration and meaningful stakeholder relationships. Our 2019 Annual Information Form (dated Feb. 26, 2020) provides a We have a long history of building and maintaining relationships, comprehensive overview of significant risks applicable to Suncor and listening to community needs and concerns, and working together to its businesses. Since 2016, carbon risk has been included in these mitigate potential impacts while seeking opportunities. principal risks and subsequently undergoes an annual board review. The Environment, Health, Safety and Sustainable Development By integrating sustainability into our process for developing physical committee of the board also oversees this risk. assets we ensure: • environmental and social risks, as well as opportunities, are identified Risk assessment and evaluation as part of the project definition Once identified, risks are assessed and evaluated in terms of magnitude • development options are evaluated against sustainability criteria of impact and likelihood using an internal risk matrix tool. A single risk through the concept selection process matrix tool allows employees to consistently assess risks and evaluate • environmental and social risks are incorporated into the project’s risk the consequence and likelihood of risk events. It also helps to assign management process responsibility for different levels of residual risk. The consequence is based on the following five receptors on the risk matrix: • Suncor’s project portfolio supports our strategic purpose, sustainability goals and long-term vision. • Health and safety • Environmental Strategic integration of sustainability in project development promotes organizational understanding and competency related to emerging • Regulatory policy, environmental and societal considerations. It leverages • Reputation technology and advances the sustainability mindset to drive toward our • Financial impact. purpose. Suncor’s Asset Development Execution Model (ADEM) ensures collaboration and engagement early in the project development cycle. Operational Excellence For example, climate change implications are considered in the initial stages of the asset development process, before we commit significant Management System resources. This ensures we mitigate risks and make the most of Operational excellence is a disciplined framework to conduct our opportunities that will enable us to achieve our goal of reducing carbon business using consistent practices and requirements. This enables emission intensity by 30% by 2030. Suncor to operate in a way that is safe, reliable, cost efficient and Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 19 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change Innovation We are continuously innovating to meet evolving energy needs while tackling pressing environmental challenges like climate change. There isn’t an easy or quick solution to transform to a low-carbon energy future. It will take original thinking, collaboration and commitment. Transforming the energy system requires all of us – producers, suppliers, governments and consumers – to make changes that will position Canada for success in a low-carbon environment. Innovation is We are committing our expertise and our resources to the development of leading-edge making today’s technologies that have the potential to change the way the world generates and uses energy. energy better We are collaborating and partnering with a wide range of individuals, organizations, associations, and tomorrow’s government, suppliers, consumers, businesses and communities to challenge the status quo energy possible. and discover new ideas. We are listening to and learning from others to challenge our thinking to create a strong future together, including strengthening our work with Indigenous businesses and communities to create mutually beneficial partnerships. Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 20 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change Innovation We look at technology development across our business to reduce our environmental footprint and costs. This includes technology that drives our sustainability focus areas: $830 million Reduce the GHG Reduce the land investment in technology development emissions associated impact associated and deployment in 2019, including with our products with our operations digital transformation renewable fuel from waste reducing the impact of our operations (such as municipal solid waste) on land resources renewable fuel from bio-mass accelerating the pace of reclamation Student Energy (such as forestry or agriculture) of disturbed lands Through connections that started and new products preserving biodiversity were nurtured at the Suncor Energy (such as renewable hydrogen) Foundation Gathering, Student Energy hosted their first Indigenous youth energy Reduce the Reduce water impacts summit in 2019, SevenGen. It brought GHG emissions associated with our together 200 Indigenous and nonof our operations operations Indigenous youth from across Canada to explore how to unite communities, build in situ development an integrated water management approach relationships and break social barriers in (such as solvents) that balances reducing, reusing the energy conversation. and returning mining and extraction development “The goal is to engage youth in climate (such as non-aqueous) and energy topics and equip them with upgrading and refining the confidence to be part of the larger (such as partial upgrading) conversation in the country,” reflects Cory Beaver, a Mount Royal University student, transformational technologies for power, member of the Stoney Nakoda First Nation steam and hydrogen and co-chair of the summit. “We’re not just doing this for the next Social innovation couple of years. We want to fight for a We all have a role to play in creating our energy future. Moving forward requires deep better reality for our children, and our conversations – with stakeholders, governments, community members and industry partners, grandchildren and future generations,” among others. These conversations help us understand multiple pathways and remember what adds summit co-chair Disa Crow Chief, we have in common – good quality of life, a healthy environment and vibrant communities. By a member of the Siksika First Nation. considering and working with whole systems, there is opportunity to transform ourselves, our organizations and society. We define social innovation as any initiative, product, process, program or design that challenges or changes society’s actions and beliefs. Successful social innovations create long-term transformative and positive impacts. As a part of our strategy, we aim to build capacity for social innovation – including within Suncor. Through the Suncor Energy Foundation, our community investment initiatives and through our relationships with communities, we work deeply with partners and communities to create value for society and address community issues of mutual interest in a way that seeks solutions and benefits everyone. You can learn more about our work in this area in the Communities section of this report. Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 21 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change Innovation Collaboration Opus-12 Transitioning to a global low carbon environment won’t happen overnight and as energy demand continues to grow, making today’s energy lower impact is a crucial part of the transition. We know we can’t do this alone. We are working together within our industry and beyond to share Through Suncor’s partnership with Evok our knowledge, learn from others, challenge the status quo and discover new ideas. Innovations, we have invested in advancing Opus 12, a company developing a device that Canada’s Oil Sands Innovation Alliance (COSIA) recycles CO2 into cost-competitive chemicals Suncor leads or participates in many technology studies and projects through Canada’s Oil Sands and fuels. The company’s technology bolts Innovation Alliance (COSIA), an alliance of companies representing roughly 90% of oil sands onto any source of CO2 emissions and production. By focusing on five environmental priority areas – greenhouse gases, land, tailings, transforms that CO2 into critical and valuable water, and monitoring – COSIA brings people together to face specific environmental challenges chemical products with only water and to shorten innovation timelines across the oil sands industry. To date, COSIA’s combined efforts electricity as inputs. have involved: • $1.4 billion portfolio of more than 1,000 technologies (technology development costs) • 294 current, active projects with a cost of $773 million. We are currently leading over 50 COSIA studies and joint industry projects. They include the Water Technology Development Centre, which began operations in 2019. Together with the project partners, we are accelerating testing of water technologies in a first-of-its-kind facility at Firebag. Suncor is also participating as a COSIA member company in the NRG COSIA Carbon XPRIZE. Evok Innovations Suncor is a co-founder of Evok Innovations, along with the BC Cleantech CEO Alliance and Cenovus Energy to accelerate early-stage technologies. Evok is a Vancouver-based fund that combines the pace and creativity of a Silicon Valley startup with the experience and insight of industry insiders. Evok drives innovation by deeply understanding industrial challenges, leveraging a global network of entrepreneurs to find solutions, and providing the investment, mentorship, and market access to accelerate deployment for game-changing results. Through the partnership, Evok invests in a global portfolio of innovative companies to address the most pressing and environmental challenges of the oil and gas industry. An important feature of Evok is the access provided to the end customers (Suncor and Cenovus) at an early stage in the life of the startup companies. Since 2016, Evok has funded 13 clean technology companies. Clean Resource Innovation Network (CRIN) Suncor is a leading member of the Clean Resource Innovation Network (CRIN), which aims to position Canada as a global leader in producing clean hydrocarbon energy from source to end use. The network unites oil and gas industry professionals, innovators, investors, startups, policy-makers, incubators and accelerators, researchers and students. Together they advance technologies aimed at improving our economic and environmental performance, and with the potential for export to global markets, emphasizing the potential impact our country can contribute to help address global challenges. Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 22 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change Innovation Enerkem A company which manufactures biofuels and renewable chemical products from household garbage that would otherwise be landfilled. In addition to investing in Enerkem, Suncor has seconded expertise and personnel into Enerkem’s Edmonton facility. LanzaTech A biofuels firm based in the United States that is advancing a proprietary gas phase fermentation technology to recycle waste gas and greenhouse gas emissions into sustainable fuels and chemicals. Strategic investments and partnerships Suncor monitors technologies being developed around the world to determine if, and when, an investment could make sense to advance a technology and adapt it for our business. Sometimes we seek out these companies, and other times they contact us directly through our technology proposal portal. Where appropriate we fund companies or venture capitalists, while other times LanzaJet we may commit to be the first customer when technology ideas align with the needs of our A company that produces operations or businesses. sustainable aviation fuel. Suncor has This type of technology development is carefully managed to ensure it provides economic partnered with LanzaJet to build a and environmental benefits to Suncor. It is a key strategy in a world of fast-changing products demonstration plant that will produce and services. renewable diesel from sustainable ethanol sources. Examples of investments ArcTern Ventures Emerald Technology Academic A venture capital firm investing Investments partnerships globally in breakthrough clean A clean technology venture capital Suncor is a longtime supporter of technology companies addressing pioneer we continue to invest in research and program work at leading climate change and sustainability. through an environmental water fund. Canadian universities. We aim to host our second Academic Technology Forum virtually in October. Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 23 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change Innovation Digitalization Digitization partnership We’re already extensively using information technology in our business, and the increasingly digital world brings new and exciting opportunities. As part of our approach to innovation, we are harnessing digital technology in areas such as improved data, advanced analytics and automation to help improve the safety, productivity, reliability and environmental performance of our operations. Focus areas include: • monitoring and data analytics • remote sensing technologies • using real-time analytics to improve reliability and performance • streamlining processes with robotic process automation. Autonomous haulage systems Autonomous haulage systems (AHS) continue to be a key part of Suncor’s strategy. Microsoft Canada Suncor has been proceeding with the phased implementation of AHS at our operated mine In late 2019, we announced a multi-year sites. The North Steepbank Extension mine reached a full autonomous haulage operation in strategic alliance with Microsoft Canada as a April 2018. AHS implementation began at the Fort Hills site in 2019 and is projected to reach part of our efforts to empower a connected and full autonomous haulage operation in 2020. collaborative workforce, upgrade data centres, Autonomous haul trucks operate using GPS, wireless communication and perceptive and increase analytics capabilities. Through technologies. The trucks operate predictably and employ a suite of safety features like this partnership, we are leveraging Microsoft’s prescribed route mapping and obstacle detection systems. full range of cloud solutions to enable the rapid deployment of new technologies to Evaluations have shown the technology offers many advantages over existing truck and shovel improve safety, productivity and sustainability operations, including enhanced safety performance, better operating efficiency and lower through artificial intelligence, machine learning, operating costs. enhanced automation, visualization and industrial Internet of Things. Although we are an industry leader in many respects we still have much to learn in the digital space, which is why we’re working with a number of organizations, including Microsoft. Mark Little president and chief executive officer Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 24 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change Engagement We are operating in a complex environment with increasingly polarizing views about the energy industry. We believe that engaging with others will help us find solutions to our shared challenges. We are working to ensure Suncor is regarded as a Canadian business We have also expanded our relationships and partnerships with leader on all dimensions of sustainability – economic, environmental various organizations to leverage their knowledge and expertise and and social – so that we are a welcomed and influential participant and collaborate on ways to reduce bias, address workplace barriers, and contributor to the energy system transformation. create opportunities that help work toward increasing workforce representation of women, Indigenous Peoples, members of the LGBT+ To support this, we work hard to engage with a wide range of community, visible minorities and other diverse communities. diverse stakeholders to consider their issues and concerns about our operations and the effects of proposed development. This includes We seek to engage with partners in an atmosphere of mutual respect, working together to mitigate potential social, environmental, and knowing there will be times when we work with partners that don’t economic impacts, and ensuring that local communities benefit support elements of our business or have different perspectives than from development. We engage with stakeholders in multiple ways, ours. We welcome different opinions and perspectives that help us including meetings, workshops, and conferences. Not only does broad work toward the greater good and drive positive change. engagement support the operation of our base business, it also helps When it comes to our workforce, we believe in engaging our us to: employees and building a culture where feedback is encouraged. • address our impacts and identify solutions Employee engagement is especially important in maintaining strong • explore new business opportunities business delivery in times of change. • support research, technology and innovation across the company Throughout this report, we highlight various 2019 engagement • embed sustainability across our whole energy system. activities with different stakeholders, as well as collaborative efforts with partners. The Embedding Project For over a decade, we have been a partner in the Embedding Project, a global public-benefit research project that helps companies embed social and environmental factors across their operations and decision-making. By harnessing the collective knowledge of the world’s top researchers and change agents from within global organizations, the Embedding Project creates publicly available resources and tools that support companies as they improve their sustainability performance and ultimately contribute to creating a more resilient society. We regularly participate in the project’s peer-to-peer knowledge exchange and supports the co-creation, piloting, and refinement of resources. Our work with them challenges us to do our part to contribute to the resilience of the communities and ecosystems where we operate. Through our participation, we better understand our own sustainability maturity and where we are best placed to contribute to positive systems change. At our FORGE supplier innovation forum in February 2020, the Embedding Project’s founder Dr. Stephanie Bertels, facilitated an interactive workshop that challenged us all to re-envision how we can collaborate across the value chain to bring about transformational change. Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 25 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change Suncor’s long-life, low-decline asset base, strong balance sheet and integrated model, with our connection to end consumers through our retail network, sets us apart from our peers. These advantages are complemented by our long-standing approach to sustainability, operational excellence, capital discipline, technology and innovation. › Operations summary › Economic impact › Supply chain Our business › Personal and process safety › Inclusion and diversity $9.9 billion spent on goods and services $836 million spent with Indigenous-owned businesses and suppliers $2.6 billion in royalties and taxes paid 34% women in management Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change Operations summary Suncor is Canada’s leading integrated energy company. Headquartered in Calgary, Alberta, Canada, Suncor’s operations include oil sands extraction and upgrading, onshore and offshore oil and gas production, petroleum refining and product Electric vehicle charging network marketing under the Petro-Canada™ brand, as well as renewable energy development. Oil Sands Suncor’s Oil Sands business, with assets located in the Athabasca oil sands of northeast Alberta, recovers bitumen from mining and in situ operations. Bitumen is either upgraded into synthetic crude oil (SCO) for refinery feedstock and diesel fuel or blended with diluent for direct sale to market through the company’s midstream infrastructure and its marketing activities. Exploration and Production Suncor’s Exploration and Production (E&P) segment consists of offshore operations located off the east coast of Canada as well as in the North Sea (the U.K. and Norway), and onshore assets in Libya and Syria. Due to political unrest, production in Libya remains partially shut-in and operations in Syria have been suspended indefinitely. Refining and Marketing Completed in 2019, we now have the first The Refining and Marketing segment consists of two primary operations, the Refining and cross-Canada network of more than 50 Logistics (R&L) and marketing operations, as well as the infrastructure supporting the marketing fast-charging electric vehicle (EV) chargers at and supply of refined products, crude oil, natural gas, power and byproducts. R&L operations Petro-Canada™ stations. These stations are refine crude oil and intermediate feedstock into a wide range of petroleum and petrochemical positioned no further than 250 kilometres products at our four refineries located in Edmonton, Alta.; Sarnia, Ont.; Montreal, Que. and apart, ensuring an EV charging station is within Commerce City, Colo. range on this electric highway and eliminating one of the significant barriers to EV adoption. FORT MCMURRAY EDMONTON ST. JOHN’S VANCOUVER LONDON CALGARY REFINERY MONTREAL MINING AND IN SITU OPERATIONS TORONTO OFFSHORE OPERATIONS WIND POWER PROJECT DENVER BIOFUELS PETRO-CANADA™ ELECTRIC VEHICLE CHARGING NETWORK Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 27 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change Operations summary Marketing operations sell refined petroleum products to retail, commercial and industrial customers through the more than 1,850 Petro-Canada™ branded retail and wholesale Indigenous partnership sites in Canada and other non-branded retail stations in the U.S. The Canadian network is supported by a nationwide commercial road transportation network and bulk sales channel. Renewables Wind power Renewable Energy includes interests in four wind farm operations in Ontario and Western Canada. Our wind power facilities located in Alberta, Saskatchewan and Ontario have a gross generating capacity of 111 MW, enough to power about 52,000 homes and to avoid approximately 179,000 tonnes of CO2 per year. St. Clair ethanol plant Suncor operates Canada’s largest ethanol facility – the St. Clair ethanol plant in the SarniaLambton region of Ontario. The St. Clair ethanol plant has a current production capacity of 400 million litres per year. The ethanol produced here is blended into Petro-Canada™ gasoline. The plant currently uses 40 million bushels of corn annually, approximately 20% of Ontario’s annual corn crop. The type of corn used as feedstock has traditionally been used to feed livestock. Once the starches are extracted from the corn to make ethanol, the remaining In support of Suncor’s social goal, we continue elements are used to make premium cattle feed. to create additional economic opportunities For more information on our operations, please refer to Suncor’s 2019 Annual Report. for Indigenous groups through both service provision and equity partnership opportunities. The jointly owned Adelaide Wind Power Project in southern Ontario has contributed to a positive working relationship between Suncor and Aamjiwnaang First Nation. Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 28 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change Economic impact As Canada’s leading integrated energy company, we believe environmental and social progress and economic performance are intertwined and integral to our success. $836 million goods and services with Indigenousowned businesses and suppliers $830 million technology development and deployment, including digital transformation $3.6 billion wages and benefits We continue to drive competitive and sustainable returns to shareholders through our integrated business model while maintaining financial strength, flexibility and our commitment $2.6 billion to environmental stewardship and sustainability. Our actions are intended to ensure the longroyalties and taxes paid term health of our business while reliably delivering critical energy to consumers. Our focus on operational excellence, commitment to capital discipline and investments For more information, please refer to Suncor’s in high-value projects underpins our ability to generate cash flow across a wide range of 2019 Annual Report. business environments. The unique integrated model provides a link from the energy source to the end consumer. This enables us to invest in enhancing the efficiency of our operations and improve the carbon intensity of the products we sell. The energy and products we provide are secure, reliable and essential to support our communities and society. They are critical to the quality of life we enjoy in North America and have additional benefits, including contributing to our economy. The revenue from the royalties and taxes we pay to government helps fund public sector programs, including education, health care and critical infrastructure. We also create thousands of jobs and provide significant revenue to a wide range of suppliers. Amidst today’s extraordinary market challenges we believe that Suncor is well positioned to succeed due to the company’s advantages: financial strength, capital discipline, a highly efficient, tightly integrated suite of assets, an industry-leading long life, low-decline oil sands reserves base, a sophisticated infrastructure and logistics network, strategic refineries and retail and wholesale network, and our investment in sustainability, technology and innovation. Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 29 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change Supply chain In 2019, we further integrated sustainability into our supply chain and field logistics business. Progress was made in order to affect environmental and social impacts of procurement decisions while improving business value. The focus on sustainability within our end-to-end supply chain processes and the partnerships we developed supports Suncor’s purpose and demonstrates leadership in environmental and social governance. FORGE 2020: Suncor charts new course with suppliers To help facilitate the sharing of innovative practices, in February 2020 we brought together more than 200 leaders from across Suncor and representatives from 40 of our suppliers and industry partners to participate in an interactive forum called FORGE. The two-day event took place at the Tsuut’ina Nation in Calgary and enabled Suncor and our key suppliers to listen, learn, co-create, innovate, and accelerate sustainability outcomes together. “Our forum was about new solutions, new Joe Vetrone speaking at FORGE 2020 partnerships and forging a new path forward,” says Joe Vetrone, senior vice-president, projects, Achieving high-level sustainability performance will demand effective collaboration and humility to supply chain and field logistics. “When we learn with and from our partners in a way that spurs disruptive innovation and embeds sustainability forge down a new path, anything is possible.” throughout our extended supply chain. Systematically assessing and tracing the flow of materials and information in our supply chain is critical to our success, as is building capabilities to strategically source in a fashion that is integrated across Suncor’s business, and leverages data and analytics. All suppliers sign off on Suncor’s Supplier Code of Conduct to align with our sustainable development approach. Together, we seek opportunities to reduce environmental impacts, support the communities in which we work, and collectively contribute to economic growth. To that end, we have taken further steps toward engaging with our suppliers on their sustainability performance, including: • collecting and assessing sustainability performance as part of prequalification and awarding of work • data gathering activities to create a baseline understanding of our supply chain and make more informed decisions • monitoring and auditing sustainability performance as part of our supplier performance and due diligence process • collecting sustainability risks and opportunities in our supply chain • building collaborative relationships with suppliers to accelerate innovation and sustainability performance. Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 30 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change Supply chain Measuring our progress To integrate sustainability in our supply chain, we look across our business. Our total supplier base spans Canada in all 10 provinces as well as the Northwest Territories and Yukon. We also purchase products and services from nearly 40 countries. Magnitude of spend We monitor our supply chain $$$ $$ $ spending and service delivery levels and strive to grow our involvement with Indigenous businesses. We continue to ensure agreements are mutually beneficial and build capacity and capability. 2018 2019 Total supplier spend $10.6B $9.9B Total Indigenous $726M $836M supplier spend Total supplier base 6,497 5,768 Indigenous supplier base 85 88 For additional notes about this chart and its data, please refer to performance data notes (#14 – notes on economic performance). Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 31 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change Supply chain In 2019, Suncor assigned an Indigenous business development representative to the crossfunctional teams that oversee requests for proposals. This participation ensures that Indigenous Suncor and Acden Tech Sonic adopt new technology for commitments are met and creates awareness of Indigenous business capabilities. mutual gain Our spend with Indigenous suppliers is approximately $836 million or 8% of our total. Since 1999, Suncor has spent more than $6 billion with Indigenous businesses. We are now reflecting on our progress to date to refine our approach and future targets. In 2019, we transitioned to tracking the percentage of Indigenous spend compared to our overall spend, as it better reflects the advancement of Indigenous business in high and low markets. We also track the number of new Indigenous suppliers and communities that we work with and have established a process to collect the percentage of Indigenous workforce engagement with all suppliers. Community partners have begun to illustrate business benefits within communities, which further helps Suncor to understand the value of working with competitive Indigenous suppliers. We have developed a great working relationship with Suncor Energy, and their dedication towards One way that Suncor is forging new advancing business participation with Indigenous partnerships with Indigenous businesses is through its collaboration with Acden suppliers is evident in all aspects throughout their Tech Sonic – ultrasonic industrial cleaning business. We appreciate their attention to detail and specialists. Athabasca Chipewyan First Nation, owner of Acden, has had a long and collaborative approach to bringing CRE and business prosperous partnership with Suncor since partners to where we are today. 1995. In recent years, the two companies have worked closely together to align Suncor’s Bernie Ness business development manager, needs, build upon Indigenous supplier Christina River Enterprises capability, expand scope and spend, and think differently about work execution. We are particularly proud of the efforts to support the advancement of Indigenous business in The combination of Acden Tech Sonic’s our Downstream. Leaning in with community partners and Indigenous suppliers in geographic industry-leading patented technology and areas that are new to both parties takes strong collaboration and trust. One example is the their highly dedicated, skilled and innovative growth in scaffolding and janitorial services which grew from $12 million in 2019 to more than team members has created significant $23 million in 2020. operational efficiencies. The results are an increased level of service at a reduced cost for exchanger cleaning at Suncor’s Base Plant. Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 32 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change Personal and process safety We place safety above all else. It’s our number one value and nothing matters more. Our Environment, Health and Safety (EH&S) team provides standards, were shared across the company, and a communication package and processes and systems to help ensure EH&S compliance and stewardship best practice checklist for site personnel was issued across our Regional across Suncor. The end result is ensuring work is done safely. Municipality of Wood Buffalo (RMWB) sites to reinforce knowledge and understanding of the hazards and mitigations related to driving and Unfortunately, in 2019 our safety performance was unfavourable, a working in and around light duty vehicles. Understanding, reflecting stark reminder that we cannot become complacent and that safety must and learning from this event is not only necessary, but also critical to always be a priority focus. It also means that employees and contractors reminding us that we can never stop thinking about safety for every must feel comfortable and empowered to speak up if they don’t feel safe task we do. or if they see an unsafe practice. Nothing is more important. Contractor safety Personal safety We believe safety above all else is essential. As such, we promote safety Each year, we hire thousands of contractors to work at Suncor job sites. In conversations and participation through a variety of activities and 2019, we tasked ourselves to look at contractor safety differently. Multiple processes, including: contractor safety forums were held to have open and honest safety discussions. This included engagement with companies before they • Incident management start work at our sites to ensure they have a complete understanding of • Serious injury and fatality (SIF) prevention the expectations and standards of executing work safely. • Life Saving Rules In April 2019, we suffered the tragic loss of a contractor colleague • Technology enablement at Fort Hills who was involved in a pedestrian/vehicle incident. Post• Journey to Zero. incident investigation, key incident findings and recommendations Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 33 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change Personal and process safety Health and wellness The well-being of our employees is of the upmost importance and something our leadership team fully supports. We strive to foster a culture of well-being that supports and enables our workforce to contribute their best every day. Supporting employee well-being results in a resilient workforce and thriving workplace. In 2019, well-being and existing wellness program awareness were a focus across the company. We continue to evaluate the needs of our people to support them in focusing on their overall well-being – and mental health is a large component of this. We recognize that foundational safety principles, such as mind on task, can only be achieved when our well-being is taken care of. Focusing on psychological safety and mental health As we live through a global pandemic, the focus on mental health and psychological safety has never been more important. Along with our Employee and Family Assistance Program (EFAP), Suncor has a mental health specialist on the team to support our employees. Indicators of psychological well-being include an employee’s level of happiness, life satisfaction, contribution, and positive mental health. We need to create a space where Therefore, it is important that our workers feel psychologically safe in the workplace to prevent harm to themselves or others. people feel safe to discuss when Mental health is also a critical component of being fit for duty.1 Those their mental health may be struggling with mental health issues can experience cognitive and affecting their fitness for duty. physical fatigue, which can impair decision-making, decrease reaction Those conversations can’t happen time and attention to detail, and increase incident rates. Mental health and psychological safety go hand in hand. without psychological safety. A core In order to help workers prioritize their mental health and ensure they component of psychological safety focus on personal safety, Suncor provides resources to help during times is the ability to discuss and address of uncertainty or stress. Leadership training and other mental health awareness activities are also underway to promote a psychologically safe problems in a constructive manner. environment and break the stigma around mental health issues. Iordanka Petzanova, mental health specialist During the early stages of the COVID-19 pandemic in 2020, our emergency response management teams and leaders connected daily to navigate our way through the unprecedented circumstances. We understood the responsibility we had, and still have, as an organization to help ‘flatten the curve,’ while continuing to provide the energy our society needs. Our main focus has always been on the well-being and safety of our people, their families, our customers and communities. This focus guided our decisions to move to essential personnel early and to introduce health and safety measures and protocols (shared internally and externally). Examples of measures include physical distancing, remote workforce enablement, flight changes, and increased sanitization across our operations and retail sites. 1 Being fit for duty means to be physically and mentally in a state to safely and acceptably perform assigned duties without any limitations, including the use or after-effects of alcohol or drugs. In March 2019, we worked with Unifor Local 707A (the union representing some employees at Suncor’s Base Plant and Firebag sites) to successfully implement random alcohol and drug testing for safety-sensitive positions and specified positions at all Suncor operations in the Regional Municipality of Wood Buffalo. Our fit for duty standard applies across our operations and is one of the next steps in our commitment to ensuring a workplace where everyone is fit for duty so we can all make it home safely. Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 34 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change Personal and process safety Emergency management We continue to see notable achievements in process safety. Our ongoing focus on asset reliability and monitoring has resulted in a Effective emergency management is integral to protecting our workers, significant decrease in unplanned releases. We also continue to improve the environment and our operations. To standardize emergency and strengthen our pipe inspection plans to provide up-to-date health management across the company, in 2019 we implemented a monitoring of our pipe conditions and life cycles. The robustness of our standardized emergency management system following the principles regulatory inspection programs ensures that we continue to operate of the international Incident Command System. This system provides a our assets with an eye on safety above all else. standardized enterprise-wide approach to improve our effectiveness and efficiency, as well as aligns to our governments, regulators and peers. We are also seeing progress made when it comes to our application of critical process safety programs. This includes the identification of Process safety and reliability instrumented safeguards, and the implementation of maintenance programs and stewardship to achieve the required level of risk mitigation, Process safety management helps reduce the frequency and severity and how we monitor and report on impacts to our operating parameters. of unexpected releases from process equipment like pressure vessels Ongoing attention on process hazard analysis workshops ensures we and pipelines. When we proactively reduce these incidents, we prevent keep an objective eye on changes in our operating plants. hazardous conditions that could harm employees or the surrounding environment. Improving process safety performance also has the benefit of reducing unscheduled maintenance and improving overall reliability, which in turn helps our facilities run more efficiently. An efficient operation is safer for employees, lowers production costs, uses less water and energy, and improves carbon intensity. Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 35 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change Personal and process safety Operational controls Recordable 15 16 17 18 19 As our business continues to grow, we are seeing and capitalizing on more opportunities injury frequency for regional and enterprise-wide safe work practices and procedures, as well as looking for Injuries per 200,000 hours worked opportunities for digital enablement. The front-line workforce is engaged in the creation of processes and we seek opportunities for standardizing how we work. We are also working to enhance our incident investigation training to ensure learnings are embedded Suncor employees 0.27 0.27 0.30 0.29 0.39 in our work practices and mitigating actions are implemented. Audits and management reviews Suncor contractors 0.56 0.36 0.45 0.41 0.39 are in place to ensure our practices are effective and prevent the reoccurrence of similar incidents. Total RIF 0.45 0.33 0.40 0.37 0.39 Health and safety performance Lost time 15 16 17 18 19 In 2019, we focused our safety efforts on personal and process safety performance. This includes injury frequency working toward reducing recordable injury frequency (RIF), loss of primary containment, and Injuries per 200,000 hours worked high-risk incidents. Recordable Injury Frequency Suncor employees 0.05 0.04 0.03 0.02 0.06 We finished 2019 with a combined employee and contractor Recordable Injury Frequency (RIF) Suncor contractors 0.04 0.05 0.04 0.03 0.03 performance of 0.39, higher than our 2019 target of 0.33. This is disappointing given our progress Total RIF 0.04 0.04 0.03 0.03 0.04 in reducing this over the past five years. Recordable incidents related to hand injuries were our leading trend. To control this trend, all incidents were investigated, root causes were identified (slips, trips and falls from winter conditions and ‘line of fire’ related incidents2.), and specific Loss of primary 15 16 17 18 19 corrective/preventive actions were assigned and completed. Incident findings and learnings were containment communicated to our workforce and business areas reinforced ‘line of fire’ safety requirements, Total # including safety inspections/observations targeted to hand injury prevention, We’re working to drive continuous improvement in employee and contractor recordable injury performance. Lost Time Injury Frequency Total LOPC 180 87 46 45 38 Our combined employee and contractors Lost Time Injury Frequency (LTIF) for 2019 was 0.04, which is relatively stable in relation to our five-year performance. The increase in 2019 employee For additional information about this chart and its data, please refer LTIF was also due to slips, trips and falls and ‘line of fire’ related incidents. To address slips, to performance data notes (#12 – notes on health and safety). trips and falls, we increased awareness on existing safety processes; proper personal protective equipment and use of mandatory traction aids; and hazard assessments before starting any activity. In early 2020, we rolled out the revised life saving rules that align with the International Association of Oil & Gas Producers and Energy Safety Canada, to provide additional focus to manage these hazards. Process safety Tier 1 and 2 loss of primary containment events We have seen Tier 1 and Tier 2 process safety events declining from 180 events in 2015 to 39 events in 2019 3.This improvement is due to our committed focus on process safety governance and initiatives. To further strengthen our process safety performance and culture, Suncor is committed to investigating safety events, including all Tier 1 and 2 process safety events, so we can: • take corrective actions to mitigate barriers • apply learnings across the enterprise. 2 Line of fire occurs when the path of a moving object or the release of hazardous energy intersects with an individual’s body. 3 Process safety Tier 1 and 2 loss of primary containment (LOPC) events are unplanned or uncontrolled release of any material from primary containment resulting in consequences as specified by American Petroleum Institute (API) Recommended Practice 754 Second Edition, 2016 and International Association Oil & Gas Producers (IOGP) Report 456: Process Safety Recommended Practice on Key Performance Indicators Version 2.0, 2018. The LOPC data is a sum of Tier 1 and 2 LOPC events. Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 36 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change Inclusion and diversity We believe part of our strength comes from leveraging our differences. We want to make Suncor a great place to work for all – where, no matter your background, attributes and perspectives, you feel valued and respected. Unleash the full potential of our people Our purpose, values and new leadership imperative launched in 2019 drive an inclusive culture. The imperative is a reminder of the role of Living our purpose can only be achieved by caring for each other. all people leaders in creating and modelling a respectful and inclusive People are at the centre of everything we do, so we want everyone to environment that’s safe, fair and trusted. feel safe, included, inspired, trusted and supported so they can be and achieve their best. Our commitment to inclusion Our goal is to create a respectful and inclusive place to work for and diversity everyone, which in turn enables leading workforce and organizational Recent events and conversations, across North America, around the globe performance. We have worked hard to build an inclusive culture where and within our organization, have heightened the need to deepen our differences are valued and our people feel a sense of belonging. commitment to an inclusive and respectful workplace and seek to address Measurement helps us to understand the demographics of our systemic bias. This commitment means we must listen, understand, learn, workforce. Representation, retention, and advancement data informs and adapt our practices to grow and support inclusion and diversity. our progress and helps us to identify and break down barriers – Along with other members of the Business Council of Canada, we have whether they are cultural, ethnic, generational or gender-based. signed a statement denouncing racism in all its forms, demonstrating Beyond statistics and metrics, we show our commitment to building our commitment to driving positive change to eliminate discrimination inclusion and belonging through raising awareness, listening, creating of all kinds. conversations, striving for fair treatment, and building skills. We believe this will positively contribute to strong employee engagement and business performance. An inclusive and diverse leadership, workforce and culture is a central principle in many of our commitments, policies, programs and tools. Suncor’s inclusion and diversity strategy includes initiatives and actions in five focus areas: • leadership • processes, policies and programs • understanding and skill development • employee involvement • community and industry partnerships. Leadership Suncor’s leadership is committed to progressing inclusion and diversity (I&D), beginning with our Board of Directors’ diversity policy, our company-wide goals as set by our CEO and the I&D Council made up of senior leaders across the organization. Together, these leadership bodies set goals, strategies, initiatives and action plans to address systemic barriers and foster opportunities to become a more inclusive workplace. Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 37 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change Inclusion and diversity Processes, policies and programs Our new Equal Opportunity and Inclusion Policy and supporting Respectful Workplace Standard, approved in 2019 and published in 2020, demonstrate our commitment to inclusion, equity and diversity. Welcoming a new baby Also in 2020, we introduced a Parental Leave Top-up Plan for Canadian employees that supports into your home is the families of all types. Open to birth and adoptive parents, of all genders, the plan enables gender start of an incredible equity and career development for women, while also helping all employees find a balance that adventure, and we want works best for their career and family. to help our employees Understanding and skill development find a balance that works We support and are building understanding by celebrating diversity days during the year, for them leading up to, including International Women’s Day, National Indigenous People’s Day, Black History Month, International Day for Cultural Diversity, Pride Month, Orange Shirt Day, International Day for during and coming back Persons with Disabilities, World Mental Health Day and many more. from their leave, with We support a variety of ways for employees to learn about, celebrate and recognize diversity, such our financial support. as employee stories on our intranet, newsletters, internal social platform Yammer, guest speakers, Paul Gardner workshops and events. We also have our continued formal programs, Unconscious Bias training and chief people officer Indigenous Awareness and Cultural training, and a collection of resources and tools for employees and leaders to learn more. Employee involvement Employees and employee networks play a critical role in fostering inclusion and respect for Board diversity The board has a written diversity diversity, equity, engagement and belonging in the workplace. policy with a measurable gender We now have seven employee networks that play a valuable role in building a sense of belonging, diversity target of 30%. Suncor supporting personal and professional development, learning and networking opportunities. exceeds this with 40% of the 2020 We recognize the importance of listening to employees and stakeholders to understand where directors being women. opportunities lie to improve inclusion and diversity, and to celebrate our successes. To ensure we are hearing feedback from all areas of our business, in 2019 our Inclusion and Diversity Council held 18 in-person inclusion labs with more than 130 employees and leaders across Suncor. Women in management 34% female representation Employee diversity 3.2% Indigenous representation in our workforce (our Social Goal target by 2025 is 4%) For additional information about this chart and its data, please refer to performance data notes (#13 – notes on workforce) Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 38 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change Our future will be shaped by how we respond to a number of complex – and sometimes competing – challenges. The amount of energy we require will continue to increase and, if we are to avoid › CFO message the worst impacts of climate change, we will have to collaboratively › Our perspective tackle the emissions challenge associated with that growth. › Leading energy system transformation › Governance › Climate-related risk management › Strategy Climate change › Metrics and targets › Low-carbon innovation Achieving a shared vision for energy system transformation requires collaboration and thoughtful engagement across the value chain Contributing to significant advancements in biofuels Scenario planning, including a new 2°C scenario, helps us assess the resilience of our long-term strategy Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change CFO message Alister Cowan chief financial officer Addressing climate change remains one of the world’s most complex and to remain successful in a rapidly transforming world including insights pressing challenges. It has the potential to affect all aspects of our society, from our new 2°C scenario. and collectively, we all have a part to play in transforming the energy Despite a challenging economic environment today, we continue to system to reduce emissions while supporting a prosperous and safe world. invest in reducing emissions from our base business as well as new In line with the rising urgency around climate change, interest and opportunities for energy system transformation, as these are critical to engagement from the capital markets have increased in recent years. business resiliency and long-term shareholder value. The energy sector, in particular, has drawn significant attention from While we have plans for further investment in the energy transition, the investors and financial institutions on climate change risk. Much of the market downturn and global pandemic have required us to adjust the financial sector including pension funds, asset managers, banks and timing of some initiatives. To ensure the financial health of the business, insurers, have coalesced around the recommendations from the Task we delayed the replacement of our coke-fired boilers and the Forty Force on Climate Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). Suncor publicly Mile Wind Power Project. These decisions are clear reminders that we declared support for the TCFD recommendations in 2018. depend on a financially healthy business today to support investments We recognize the importance of carbon risk and engaging with our in low-carbon innovations for tomorrow. shareholders and financial partners on this risk. As such, I am happy to Our portfolio of high-quality assets, prudent management and strong share the fourth edition of Suncor’s dedicated disclosure on climate risk investment-grade credit rating, along with our history of transparent and resilience. Carbon management has been a focus for our business climate disclosure and active engagement, have established Suncor as for decades and we’re making significant progress to achieve our a trusted provider of energy in Canada. Our strategy, commitment to current goal to reduce our GHG emissions intensity by 30% by 2030. shareholder value, and our focus on sustainability position us well in a We also value active engagement with investors and financial partners low-carbon future. directly and through organizations like Climate Action 100+ and Ceres. These opportunities allow us to share knowledge and seek bold new approaches for continued business success. We’ve used the TCFD recommendations to structure our report, provide information to support decision making, and continue supporting high-quality engagement. I encourage you to read about our GHG performance and robust governance approach. We also share some Alister Cowan of our notable investments in low-carbon technology and our strategy chief financial officer Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 40 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change Our perspective We support the Paris Agreement to limit global temperature rise to below 2°C. This requires an urgent and collaborative effort from all governments, businesses and individuals to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions while meeting the world’s energy needs. Solutions across all parts of the economy must be pursued, addressing improvements to existing energy systems and implementing new energy sources to advance the energy transformation the world needs. Suncor is well positioned for this transformation with a strong Performance highlights upstream portfolio integrated with efficient downstream refineries and We are aiming to reduce our emissions intensity by continuing to drive strategic investments in new technology and low-carbon innovation operational efficiency improvements while accelerating the adoption to reduce carbon emissions and lower costs across all aspects of of new technology. We are measuring our progress towards a goal of our business. In addition to stewarding our 2030 goal to reduce achieving a 30% GHG emissions intensity reduction of our products by GHG intensity, carbon risk is embedded within Suncor’s approach to 2030 relative to a 2014 baseline. At the end of 2019, we had achieved governance and decision-making. approximately 10% reduction against this baseline and we continue to We have supported the desire for consistency and transparency pursue opportunities to advance low-carbon energy 4. embodied in the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures In 2019, our total absolute GHG emissions rose approximately 4% (TCFD) recommendations since 2018, and view information disclosed in compared to 2018 primarily due to Fort Hills operating at higher rates alignment with those recommendations as foundational for stakeholder as it ramped up from commissioning in 2018; although this asset engagement. Information that follows provides GHG emissions trends, operated at lower-than-optimal utilization due to the Government of our strategy and progress toward our GHG goal, updated information Alberta mandatory production curtailment5. However, company-wide on our input into climate policy development, and our engagement GHG emissions intensity remained relatively flat, as 2018 and 2019 activities including embedding sustainability considerations within our performance reflect the benefits of the low-carbon paraffinic froth supply chain. treatment (PFT) technology deployed at Fort Hills. We also share our approach to innovation and how our foundational In order to meet our GHG performance goal there must be additional governance framework and risk processes ensure we address climate advances in technology. Suncor continues to significantly invest in threats and opportunities appropriately. New this year, we are introducing technology development and deployment, to optimize current assets and our 2°C scenario, developed to inform our long-term business planning develop next-generation facilities. We believe technology and innovation and corporate strategy. We welcome the evolution of standardized and have the potential to move emissions reduction from incremental to stepconsistent climate risk disclosure to meet the needs of all stakeholders change improvements, particularly beyond 2030 when many of these and contribute to understanding the requirements of transforming to a technologies are expected to be commercially available. low-carbon future. 4 We expect there to be impacts to our GHG intensity due to government mandated production curtailment and COVID-19 impact on demand. 5 https://www.alberta.ca/oil-production-limit.aspx Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 41 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change Leading energy system transformation Advancing solutions through engagement Transitioning an energy system requires a shift in social, cultural, • Partnering with the Energy Futures Lab, a multi-sector collaboration technological and economic parameters and a shared vision for the designed to convene a diverse range of stakeholders to help shape future. Through both Suncor and the Suncor Energy Foundation, we the energy future and strengthen Alberta and Canada’s position as a support organizations that engage Canadians in meaningful discussions global energy leader. on the energy system and the connections between the environment • Working collaboratively to support reconciliation with Indigenous and the economy. We are working with our foundation partners to Peoples through leadership development and building community promote an understanding of the changing energy realities of the 21st capacity including a focus on environmental priorities. century and raise awareness among Canadians of the role their choices • Hosting an annual Ceres6 – facilitated stakeholder panel to review and lifestyles play in reducing emissions. our sustainability progress. In 2019, we received valuable input Collective dialogue and collaboration are important elements of how we on our climate scenario analysis, thoughts on further advancing develop relationships to understand diverse perspectives, experiences sustainability within our supply chain and improving the usefulness of and viewpoints about the role we all play in creating our energy future. a sustainability prioritization framework. While our views on the pathways to achieving this future may not always – Key takeaways from this session included support for our use align, we can all agree on the need to sustainably produce energy that of scenarios, encouragement for more proactive leadership in enhances peoples’ lives while caring for each other and the earth. pursuit of strategic resilience, and the importance of advancing Over the past year, we engaged with stakeholders through meetings, social innovation initiatives. We’ve responded by providing added workshops and conferences. We also advanced supplier engagement disclosure on some of these topics both in this report and in our efforts and worked together to create more environmental and social Report on Sustainability. impact opportunities within Suncor and the broader marketplace. We • Holding a second engagement with Climate Action 100+. The are committed to engaging in different ways and we look forward to discussion ranged from Suncor’s vision for an energy transition, climate opportunities to build mutual understanding within the solution space. scenario analysis, and the need for emission reduction metrics within Examples of these collaborations and highlights over the past year include: compensation programs. We expect engagement to continue in 2020. 6 Ceres is a non-profit organization that works with investors and companies to build sustainability leadership and drive solutions for a healthy global economy. Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 42 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change Leading energy system transformation • Partnering with other companies and the investment community to hold an investor day of learning on the energy transition. • Participation in several events to advance climate policy and sustainable energy development such as the Energy Disruptors conference, Singularity U Canada Summit, Emissions Reductions Alberta Carbon+ conference, Clean Energy Ministerial Meeting, and sustainable finance expert panel consultations including sustainable finance taxonomy for Canada. Over the next year, we will continue engagement with investors, including the Climate Action 100+ initiative. Engagement with our supply chain In 2019, we worked to identify baseline risks and opportunities within our supply chain. Through the supplier prequalification process, we now gather data and screen potential suppliers based on sustainabilityFlight optimization related criteria. Annually we review our top 50 suppliers’ sustainability Collaboration between several Suncor teams and our airline partner, reports, codes of conduct and CDP Climate Change responses. We WestJet, led to further optimizing our charter flights to our Northern have mapped our suppliers on a global basis and are working to better Alberta operations in 2019. By consolidating flights, we increased flight understand the sustainability risks and opportunities available. utilization by 7% and decreased greenhouse gas emissions by 27% from We continue to hold strategic supplier meetings where we share 2018 to 2019. best practices to achieve continuous improvement in sustainability “Not only was it an opportunity to look at creating a regional working performance throughout the value chain. These discussions contributed team to standardize the travel model across our operating groups,” says to the formalization of a supplier performance assessment survey that Genevieve Dacambra, manager of aviation, “we also quickly saw the incorporates multiple sustainability factors, including questions to our broader value in focusing on greenhouse gas emission reduction and suppliers related to emissions. working closely with our vendors on our triple bottom line.” In early 2020, our senior leaders met with our key supplier community Flights were optimized by looking at passenger demand and upcoming and industry partners to signal Suncor’s intentions to transform work schedules to eliminate flights or change to smaller aircraft. relationships so we may accelerate innovation and sustainability Some flights were consolidated to reduce the number of aircraft used. performance. The event, called FORGE, created an opportunity to Operational directives to use less jet fuel based on passenger and collaborate across the breadth of Suncor’s supply chain toward a baggage load information the day of flight, resulted in even fewer sustainable future together. We intend to build off the efforts of FORGE emissions per flight segment. to embed sustainable practices in our supply chain, create opportunities for cross-value-chain strategic supplier engagement and enable supply In 2019, our aviation team also added six new Indigenous service chain contributions to innovation. providers from across Canada for charter fixed-wing flights, helicopter and drone services. Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 43 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change Leading energy system transformation Collaborating and partnering Suncor and other COSIA member companies are advancing to advance innovation the NRG COSIA Carbon XPRIZE, a global competition Innovation is best served by inviting the brightest minds and diverse where international teams, including Canada, are proving perspectives to collaborate both within and outside our industry. their technologies can be economically scaled up to We invest and participate in several initiatives all sharing the goal of capture and transform CO2 into valuable, useful products. addressing the most pressing environmental and economic challenges of the energy industry and amplifying climate actions, including: • Co-founding Evok Innovations with Cenovus Energy and the BC • Advancing the work of the Clean Resource Innovation Network Cleantech CEO Alliance Inc. This $100 million technology fund (to which (CRIN), an industry-led group created to leverage the oil and gas Suncor and Cenovus have each committed up to $50 million over industry’s strengths and contribute to a future in which Canada is a 10 years) focuses investments on enabling entrepreneurs to advance global leader in producing clean hydrocarbon energy from source to ideas to commercialize clean technologies and market them globally. end use. The network brings together diverse expertise and facilitates • Technology collaboration efforts through Canada’s Oil Sands connections to advance technologies for use in Canada, and Innovation Alliance (COSIA). Canada’s largest oil sands producers potentially for export to global markets. pool expertise and intellectual property to advance technologies • Investing in clean technology funds such as ArcTern Ventures, and improve performance in four environmental focus areas: GHG, a Toronto-based venture capital firm investing globally in water, tailings and land. COSIA also focuses on developing advanced breakthrough clean technology companies addressing climate monitoring technologies to increase the accuracy of area fugitive change and sustainability. emissions quantification from our tailings ponds and mine face. Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 44 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change Governance Board oversight of climate-related Role of senior leadership risks and opportunities As a member of the board, our chief executive officer leads an executive leadership team (ELT) that builds and implements a strategy Suncor’s Board of Directors and the management team are both to identify and realize high-quality opportunities while mitigating responsible for reviewing company-wide objectives, goals and risks. Collectively, our ELT establishes strategic financial direction strategies for achieving them. The board oversees our Enterprise Risk and operational objectives, and integrates carbon and climate Management (ERM) program, and annually reviews principal risks. change considerations into business planning and processes. The ELT Principal risks have the potential to impact or impair Suncor’s ability to also ensures we effectively deliver value chain integration, pursue meet its strategic objectives. Carbon risk is one of these principal risks, technology development, support public policy and government requiring the full board to review external trends, carbon risk pathways, interaction, and establish and maintain valuable external relationships. and Suncor’s mitigation plans at least once a year. To help inform the execution of our strategy, our leadership team also The Environment, Health, Safety and Sustainable Development receives guidance through several internal collaborative groups which Committee (EHS&SD) of the board reviews carbon risk quarterly. Its help guide decisions by providing advice and input on innovation and oversight responsibilities include monitoring the effectiveness and technology investments. integrity of Suncor’s internal controls related to operational risks of physical assets and other sustainability matters. The committee also Our chief sustainability officer helps to elevate sustainability reviews policies and practices respecting operational risks as they relate considerations and ensure they are properly represented in decisionto climate change. making. This position reports directly to our CEO and collaborates with other ELT colleagues in strategy, operations and other departments, In addition to overseeing principal risks, the board annually with focused climate-related accountabilities, including: reviews business plans (including capital budget), and in doing so endorses the strategies reflected in long-range plans. The board’s • communicating Suncor’s carbon risk and mitigation measures to Governance Committee also annually assesses Suncor’s planning and the board budgeting process. • translating the strategic sustainability direction from the board into corporate action Suncor‘s board practices on performance evaluation and compensation consider various environmental, social and governance factors by: • serving as a direct link to the Environment, Health, Safety & Sustainable Development (EHS&SD) Committee of the board who • evaluating senior executive performance annually against wellassess the risks and impacts of climate change issues on business and defined goals that support and reinforce Suncor‘s value drivers growth plans, review impacts of emerging climate legislation and • considering Suncor‘s performance against enterprise-wide regulations, and review public disclosures on carbon risk sustainability goals related to safety, environmental (including GHGs) and social performance in determining the amount of annual • playing a critical role in supporting Suncor’s public policy and government interaction and deepening Indigenous and stakeholder incentive payments to the CEO. relationships and collaboration. Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 45 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change Climate-related risk management Identifying, assessing and managing Additional processes and risk management evaluation techniques include: • an established strategic issues management process inclusive of climate-related risks climate change risks and opportunities Our commitment to a proactive Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) • an annual carbon price outlook developed to incorporate existing program contributes to effective decision-making through consistent regulations and expected cost and credit trajectories into the identification and assessment of risks inherent to our assets, activities economic evaluation of projects and assets in multiple scenarios and operations. Evaluation of potential climate-related risks and opportunities is integrated consistently along with other economic, • internal project and asset development model, which includes a environmental and social factors into these decision-making processes review of climate change implications early in the process and before and our overall ERM program. the commitment of significant resources • strategy formulation to enhance energy efficiency and to advance Climate-related risks can affect every aspect of our business. Our carbon reduction technologies through collaboration of cross functional integrated approach to identifying and assessing climate-related risks teams including environmental engineering, corporate technology addresses the influence and impacts of these risks across organizational development, corporate strategy, and capital portfolio management boundaries and allows co-ordinated efforts to manage and mitigate the risk for the entire company. Board-level oversight of these risks and • an annual business unit and functional level assessment of key mitigation efforts and dedicated executive management ensures an business risks and opportunities, including the potential physical risks integrated, co-ordinated approach across our business. posed by the effects of climate change, the outcomes of which feed into our overarching enterprise risk program and processes A dedicated risk matrix supports the assessment and prioritization of • facility-focused GHG emissions forecasts which inform the potential all risks and opportunities using a common measure of likelihood and impact of identified risks and optimize business planning. consequence to identify different types of risk, including reputational, financial and environmental impacts. Integrated approach to evaluating threats and opportunities Decisions and actions External Physical risks for operations, costs trends and adaptation and product sales requirements Short-term threats and Climate-related Emerging opportunities policies threats and regarding costs opportunities and operations Scenarios for what the future Decisions and actions Technology development could look like for strategy and capital allocations Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 46 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change Climate-related risk management Integration of carbon pricing into our In addition to carbon price, we incorporate other climate-related considerations including: decision-making processes • testing our portfolio against internal performance goals in the The energy system is changing, and our business is adapting to these context of longer-term GHG impacts of our decisions changes. We consider several inputs to our planning process. Each year, • understanding the impact to our business and long-term resilience by as part of our normal integrated business planning process, we develop evaluating multiple scenarios, including higher-carbon pricing linked multiple price assumptions for a variety of economic variables, including to 2°C pathways consistent with the Paris Agreement carbon price forecasts. • continued commitment to capital spending toward measurable For 2020 and all long-term planning, carbon prices consider existing reductions in our GHG emissions regulations and their expected trajectory as they apply to our assets. • exploring opportunities that lower the carbon intensity of our Our business planning process also stress tests lower commodity prices products during the project development phase combined with higher-carbon pricing, adding confidence to our capital decisions. These assumptions help evaluate all business, acquisition, • evaluating potential life-cycle emissions to determine credit divestiture, capital and strategic planning activities. generating opportunities. ON TI S A T V R O E N IN N CARBON IS A INTERNAL G & PRINCIPAL RISK CARBON PRICE T H TECHN $ & OL IENCE CO2 SIL OG RE Y CO2 AMBITIOUS TESTING STRATEGY GHG GOAL AGAINST FUTURE SCENARIOS L S O M W -C S TE AR SY BON ENERGY Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 47 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change Climate-related risk management Facility resilience to extreme Precipitation, droughts and wildfires weather events Most of Suncor’s operated facilities are not in stressed watersheds where the availability of water, or severe restrictions on water We assess specific risks to our physical assets, including the risk of withdrawals, could compromise our ability to operate. We manage extreme weather events, which are possible in the areas where we limits to oil sands water withdrawal during winter low-flow periods operate. We manage these risks through facility design and operational through on-site water storage where facility design permits. The procedures, and maintain insurance for damage to, or loss of, assets as Commerce City refinery, owned and operated by our U.S subsidiary well as production interruption. Suncor Energy (U.S.A) Inc., is located in a region with a future potential Temperature extremes risk for water stress7 where curtailment of water supply would require bringing in water by pipeline or truck. Water management is a priority Many of Suncor’s facilities routinely operate in an annual temperature at Suncor, driving industry-leading innovation at our facilities to reduce, range of -40 to +40°C and are built to mitigate extreme weather recycle, reuse and return water. events. Prolonged periods of extreme cold could force these facilities into extended shutdowns to ensure worker safety and prevent undue There is also a risk of seasonal flooding in certain areas where we stress on equipment. Prolonged periods of extreme heat may lead to operate, which we manage through contingency plans to protect production cuts if an adequate supply of cooling water is not available. facilities including backup generators and pumps to drain critical Suncor’s refineries in Montreal and Sarnia have access to extremely operating units and equipment. In May 2020, the Regional Municipality large bodies of cooling water, greatly reducing exposure to this risk. of Wood Buffalo experienced severe flooding as a result of the spring ice break up. Although Suncor’s oil sands operations were not affected, Hurricanes and icebergs some of the community of Fort McMurray was evacuated and Suncor Suncor’s Terra Nova floating production, storage and offloading (FPSO) and other industry partners housed evacuees at camps within the region installation, off the coast of Newfoundland, operates in an area of the and assisted in the response. Atlantic, which is subject to extreme weather conditions. Suncor’s oil sands facilities are located within Canada’s boreal forest Aboard the FPSO, we use a continuous weather tracking service to and wildfires pose a risk to our operations and the communities nearby. monitor storm systems in the North Atlantic, mitigating risks during To mitigate this risk, we manage our production facilities in line with hurricane season. There is also a risk in the region of icebergs causing FireSmart8 guidance. We have detailed emergency preparedness and damage to our installation. The risk is mitigated through facility design response plans in place to ensure emergency situations resulting from and a continuous monitoring system tracking iceberg locations. We wildfire risks are managed effectively. Suncor also partners with other complete regular flyovers to monitor movement of the icebergs and operators and the Regional Municipality of Wood Buffalo in mutual aid chart their paths. Where the course of an iceberg cannot be altered, an agreements to collectively manage emergencies. emergency response system allows the FPSO to disengage and move to safer water. While this results in production disruption, it protects the asset and mitigates environmental risks. 7 According to both the World Wildlife Fund’s Water Risk Filter Tool and the World Resources Institute’s Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas. These tools evaluate overall physical, regulatory and reputational risks at the watershed level and indicate that the Commerce City refinery in Colorado exists within a “medium-high” water stress region of the Mississippi River Basin, which indicates a future potential risk for water stress. 8 FireSmart Canada leads the development of resources and programs designed to empower the public and increase community resilience to wildfire across Canada. More information is available at firesmartcanada.ca Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 48 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change Strategy Suncor’s energy transition strategy is to steadily improve the efficiency and reduce the carbon footprint of our base business while investing in new lower-carbon forms of energy, consumer products and services, consistent with our new purpose – to provide trusted energy that enhances people’s lives, while caring for each other and the earth. Business strategy for a changing Upstream energy future Oil Sands The global oil and gas industry has made structural adjustments over Suncor’s Oil Sands operations are a concentrated oil play with a low the past decade, largely through technology that unlocked shale oil and decline, multi-decade resource base in the Athabasca oil sands located reduced the supply cost curve. As a new decade begins with focused in northeastern Alberta. We have operated here for more than 50 attention on pandemic recovery efforts, business plans of leading years, with most of our production coming from this region. In low companies must consider evolving trends and consumer preferences to oil demand scenarios and correspondingly low oil price environments, be capable of thriving in a range of possible scenarios. the substantial scale and physical integration of our operations help to enhance a number of inherent advantages, including: Emissions reduction strategies will need to consider broader technology • minimal finding and exploration costs or risk and policy pathways in order to deliver energy to a growing global population, particularly the increased energy needs in developing • long operating asset life, with steady output and low production economies. Fundamentally changing the energy mix moving forward decline rates will require a decoupling of economic growth and carbon emissions, • leveraging location and logistical synergies between facilities and we expect oil demand and the role of oil in the global energy allows us to drive efficiencies, improve reliability and enhance our consumption mix to change. environmental stewardship commitments including actions that support our GHG goal. As an integrated energy provider, we’re able to leverage a strong value chain with a resourceful approach to reduce costs and lower the carbon We continue to invest in strategic initiatives and technologies that intensity of our base business while investing in new forms of lowsupport continuous improvement across our operations at both carbon energy, consumer products and services. our Base Plant operations and Fort Hills. These include value chain optimization and automation of mining and upgrading through autonomous haul systems (AHS). This technology is now fully deployed at our North Steepbank Extension mine at Base Plant and full deployment at our Fort Hills mining project is projected in 2020. Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 49 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change Strategy Our ownership in the Syncrude joint operation creates opportunities to leverage our deep operating experience and to share technical and reliability best practices with the operator to further advance energy Cogeneration For an energy system in transition, cogeneration offers substantial benefits; efficiency improvements. in addition to providing a reliable, low-cost baseload, low-carbon source For our in situ operations, we’re advancing opportunities and of energy, cogeneration power can help to manage the intermittency investments to reduce the energy intensity of the extraction process for of renewable power generation sources like wind and solar. Where our existing and future assets. Work is progressing on solvents, wellbore we have invested in cogeneration, the excess power we generate is enhancement and decarbonizing steam generation. reducing the need for coal based power and other less efficient forms of power generation that have higher GHG emissions. Moreover, industrial Offshore oil production cogeneration investments produce excess electricity supplied to the grid Suncor has an interest in every major operating asset offshore of which creates increased reliability for the public without the capital burden Canada’s east coast. Suncor operates Terra Nova and has interests in at the expense of the public rate payers. the Hibernia, White Rose and Hebron projects. We are a non-operating partner in the Buzzard and Golden Eagle fields in the United Kingdom North Sea and have expanded our options in this area through the We currently have cogeneration units installed at our Oil Sands Base purchase of a participating interest in the Rosebank pre-development Plant, Firebag, and Fort Hills facilities, and we export low-carbon excess opportunity. We also have non-operated interests in the Oda and electricity generated from these units to the Alberta provincial grid. This Fenja developments located in the Norwegian Sea. With diligent synergistic opportunity continues to be a focus area for us producing management of produced methane, offshore crude oil is generally and exporting more affordable, low-carbon power to the provincial among the lowest carbon intensity sources of crude globally. electrical grid. Low-carbon and renewable power generation We plan to replace the coke-fired boilers with cogeneration units at The requirement for steam in crude oil extraction, processing our Oil Sands Base Plant. In addition to providing the facility with steam and refining facilities creates the opportunity for high efficiency needed for operations, the cogeneration units may export an additional cogeneration, which provides reliable steam and power to our facilities 800 megawatts (MW) of electricity to the provincial grid, equivalent to in addition to supplying surplus power to the electricity grid at a carbon roughly 7% of Alberta’s current electricity demand, and reduce emissions intensity lower than any other hydrocarbon-based generation. by approximately 2.5Mt/y, equivalent to displacing 550,000 cars from Our operations require heat and power MINING & IN SITU INPUTS Natural gas Water Cogeneration process OUTPUTS LOW-CARBON POWER EXCESS carbon Greening Electricity intensity Steam electricity grid Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 50 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change Strategy We expect demand to recover as governments lift stay-at-home Cogeneration and renewable power capacity restrictions and induce economic recovery through stimulus spending. Suncor’s combined investments in cogeneration and wind Long-term gasoline demand is expected to be moderated by efficiency power generation make us one of the largest and most improvements in internal combustion engines, policy actions by various carbon-competitive independent power producers in Alberta governments, and increased uptake of biofuels, as well as hybrid by generation capacity. Across our operations, we have and electric vehicle penetration rates. Suncor’s integrated model working interest in approximately 1,400 MW of renewable and that connects our reliable source of crude oil with our refining assets cogeneration capacity and provide approximately 740 MW to combined with our investments in biofuels technology will allow us to regional grids. Sanctioned projects are expected to add another continue to meet the demand for liquid fuels while at the same time 1,000 MW of capacity. reducing carbon intensity. Governments at all levels in Canada are seeking to diversify the road. The project is also expected to reduce GHG emissions intensity transportation fleets to use lower-carbon-intensity fuels and, as a result, at our Oil Sands Base Plant by approximately 25% by replacing coke, a the transportation fuelling landscape is expected to change over time. high-carbon fuel source with lower-carbon natural gas. The timeline of Reducing GHG emissions from the transportation sector is arguably one this project has been extended by up to two years due to the current of the toughest challenges, in that transportation is fundamental to market conditions, reminding us that a financially healthy base business economic productivity. is required to enable investments in low-carbon innovation. We believe diesel will remain the predominant fuel in North America We were an early entrant in the renewable power generation business for heavy haulage, aviation, marine and rail, and we see demand in 2002. Since then, we have developed eight wind projects totaling 395 MW. Today, we are partners in four operational wind power facilities with a generating capacity of 111 MW. In 2019, we sanctioned phase one (200 MW) of the Forty Mile Wind Power Project in Alberta. Similar to the replacement of our coke-fired boilers at Base Plant, this permitted and sanctioned project has also been delayed by up to two years due to current market conditions. Suncor has a strong portfolio of renewable power development sites across Canada that will further reduce reliance on higher-carbonintensive grids in regions like Alberta and Saskatchewan. We will continue to identify and develop low-carbon power generation opportunities that provide synergistic benefits to our base operations. As part of the investment evaluation of these opportunities, we assess economic, environmental and social benefits, including Indigenous partnerships. We also assess the potential for these investments to generate emission credits that can be used to offset the emissions in our operations. An enabling factor will be market design allowing for dynamic interaction between a renewable, but intermittent, power source and baseload sources like cogeneration. Downstream low-carbon fuels and new consumer solutions We are focusing our efforts in the downstream on producing low-carbon fuels, and offering new consumer services and solutions. Our downstream and marketing business was not immune to the global collapse in demand for liquid fuels caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 51 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change Strategy growth with increasing economic activity as the world recovers from Suncor owns and operates the largest ethanol plant in Canada, which the COVID-19 pandemic. Heavy-duty vehicle fuel efficiency standards provides the ethanol we blend into our gasoline. Heavy haul trucks, and biodiesel blending are expected to offset some of the economically aviation and marine fuels of the future will require advanced biofuel driven demand growth, and we see value in exploring the potential for blending. We are evaluating optimization work at our St. Clair ethanol renewable diesel production as a result of this shift. plant to increase the quality of our products and develop lower-carbonintensity ethanol. We are also increasing the bio-content of our diesel While it remains to be seen whether consumer adoption of alternative and gasoline. energy vehicles will wane in light of sustained low oil prices, we believe hybrid, plug-in hybrid, and electric vehicles will remain cost-effective Suncor also monitors technologies being developed by other parties additions to the passenger vehicle fleet and will, along with fuel to determine if, and when, an investment in the technology could efficiency standards, contribute to moderating growth in global gasoline be applied to our business. In 2019, we invested in Enerkem, which demand. We also believe safety, low-cost, consumer convenience and manufactures biofuels and renewable chemical products from improvements in carbon intensity mean liquid fuels will remain the household garbage that would otherwise be landfilled. We also primary fuel source in vehicle mobility for many years to come. continue to invest in sustainable fuel technology companies such as LanzaTech and LanzaJet. Suncor remains committed to providing our customers with multiple low-carbon fuelling choices. In addition to providing fast-charging EV infrastructure, we continue to reduce the emissions intensity of our liquid fuels in several other ways. One way is through biofuel blending. Focusing on our customers While we continue to reduce the emissions intensity of our liquid fuels, we are evolving and expanding our current product offering to meet growing customer demand. Through our Petro-Canada™ brand, we completed construction in 2019 of Canada’s Electric Highway™, a coast-to-coast electric vehicle (EV) fast-charging network spanning more than 50 Petro-Canada™ stations. These sites are positioned no further than 250 kilometres apart and provide universal charging options to a variety of electric vehicles. We invested in level three direct-current fast chargers, a step-change technology that is built beyond the needs of today’s EV technology and positioned for the future of EV charging in Canada. This exciting initiative supports customers wanting to reduce their carbon footprint with choices for their energy needs and enables us to learn more about this emerging market as we continue to evaluate options and respond to evolving customer needs. ™ Trademark of Suncor Energy Inc. Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 52 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change Strategy Scenario planning These scenarios also confirm the need to continually lower costs and carbon intensity throughout our business. However, as the energy Suncor uses three energy futures scenarios to 2050 and is introducing system transitions away from carbon intensive sources of energy, we a new 2°C scenario to 2100 to test and assess the resiliency of our believe some level of hydrocarbons will continue to be needed for business strategy. We consistently develop several distinct, challenging, consumer products, transportation, agriculture and industrial uses. relevant and plausible world trajectories, adjusting all variables in an internally consistent manner. Some of the aspects we consider in our Each scenario has an implied crude oil price range and climate change scenario development include demographics, economics, environment, regulatory impact. Two of the three reflect the current global aspiration (geo)politics, legal, social and cultural, and technology. toward reducing carbon emissions; what differentiates the scenarios is the context, pace and scale at which that comes about. Energy future scenarios to 2050 Of these scenarios, “Autonomy” is the scenario we consider best These scenarios9 are all plausible and could affect our operating represents the technology and policy context that would be essential to environment and business strategy in markedly different ways. meet the aspiration of limiting cumulative emissions to 450 ppm. Under each of these scenarios, including the one with the most The scenarios are used annually by the CEO, the executive leadership aggressive decline in oil demand, we believe a substantial amount of team and the Board of Directors to assess business and growth strategy oil will be required for decades as the world gets on track to meet and identify alternative strategic directions. This process continues to be its climate ambitions. This view is also supported by forecasts from a useful tool for stress-testing our business on several key dimensions, organizations such as the International Energy Agency and the U.S. including climate risk. Energy Information Administration. Meeting that demand at either low, or highly volatile, oil prices will be a challenge. Autonomy Rapid technological and societal change transforms the energy landscape in Autonomy, supported by a peaceful and collaborative world. • Millennial shift – focus on sustainability and Energy markets impact collaboration, sustainable urbanization. • Abundant and cost-effective supply of energy coupled with moderation and eventual decline in demand, particularly in transportation, drives oil • Falling costs and improved reliability of clean energy prices to stay low in the long term. allow developing countries to bypass large-scale • Oil exploration and production slows as investment moves to other sectors, hydrocarbon-based energy infrastructure. reducing but not choking supply. • Natural gas is a transitional fuel for power generation, • High cost supply falls off fast. but after 2030 increasingly renewable power generation • Oil is still required and continues to provide a significant share of the fuels a largely electrified energy system. world’s energy need. • Breakthrough battery technology development supports Expected impact on Suncor growth in electric vehicles. • No existing assets are stranded. • Oil’s role in geo-politics is substantially diminished • Existing long-life assets continue to produce, funding their own sustaining contributing to a generally stable geo-political capital or modest growth capital requirements for incremental production expansion. environment. Stable moderately strong economy. • New oil sands growth projects are challenged and unlikely to proceed. • Carbon-intensive industries face high regulatory costs • Oil sands continue to provide a stable dividend base while growth options and requirements. in other resource basins are considered. • No new export pipelines are built out of the Athabasca • Only the top tier refineries remain profitable – Suncor’s Downstream oil sands region. maintains a focus on reliable, efficient and low-cost operations. 9 These scenarios are substantially based on the IHS Markit Autonomy, Rivalry and Discord scenarios. IHS changed Vertigo to Discord in 2019. The scenario descriptions have been modified by Suncor for applicability to its business. Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 53 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change Strategy Rivalry In Rivalry, population growth, urbanization and growing middle class drive energy demand – diverse supply is required to satisfy demand, with intense competition for market share between energy sources. • Improving standard of living and greater personal Energy markets impact wealth, particularly in China. • High global energy demand fed by diverse energy supply. • Expanding use of advanced technologies increases • Refined products still dominate transportation fuels, but are losing market share to alternative fuels. demand for energy. • Fuel efficiency standards and technological innovation moderate growth in • Shift of economic power to millennials with the desire refined product demand. and means to address pollution and climate change. • Oil and natural gas are increasingly costly to produce and the oil price • Geo-political landscape remains tense and strong global continues to trend upwards with some cyclical downturns. economic growth shifts global influence. Expected impact on Suncor • Technology advancements allow access to greater oil • No existing assets are stranded. reserves, with unconventional supply growing. • High price and market access enable robust oil sands growth and further • Natural gas and LNG play a larger role in transportation. investment in improved extraction techniques. • Strong growth in renewable energy. • Continued focus on carbon footprint reduction through capital projects, • Carbon-intensive industries face high regulatory costs technology development and efficient operations. and strict standards. • Competitive downstream provides robust returns and enables physical integration of oil sands crude. Vertigo Continued conflict and geo-political instability are at the forefront of the world. Vertigo is a world with economic volatility, unbalanced wealth distribution, and overall weaker GDP growth. • International trend towards isolation and selfEnergy markets impact preservation with energy security a key concern. • Fossil fuels remain the primary source of affordable energy and dominate the global energy mix. • Air quality, traffic congestion lead to smaller, higher• The price of oil recovers from current levels but fluctuates widely with efficiency vehicles and some electric vehicle adoption. rapid shifts in demand and supply. • Extreme weather events lead to social unrest. • Slower economic growth and technological progress limit the proliferation • Investor risk aversion and tight capital markets constrain of electric and other alternative fuel vehicles; energy mix does not change significantly. both technology advancement and high capital projects. • Slower economic growth limits growth in energy, oil and refined • Pipeline projects constrained by stakeholder protests product demand. and investor risk aversion. Expected impact on Suncor • Unstable, boom/bust energy market. • No existing assets are stranded. • Environmental progress and climate change mitigation • Long-life assets able to deliver free cash flow through commodity price take a back seat to economic concerns. volatility, enabling Suncor to maintain competitive returns to shareholders. • Integrated model helps smooth oil price cycles. • Growth projects rigorously tested to ensure ability to deliver returns in volatile oil price environment. • Financial strength is leveraged to consolidate assets at the bottom of the cycle. Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 54 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change Strategy A new 2°C scenario generational pressures, technological innovation, and political unity bring enough of the world together to take dramatic and unified action In 2019, Suncor developed a new 2°C scenario with IHS Markit10 in line to change the trajectory of GHG emissions. with our support for both the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) and the Paris Agreement. This work is informing our This scenario provides a valuable reflection of both the current state of long-term business planning and corporate strategy and allows us to emissions, and continued demand for energy with the economic and understand what a pathway could entail to keep global temperatures technical challenges inherent with reducing emissions from that demand. from rising 2°C, or less, by 2100 compared with pre-industrial levels. This trajectory of rising emissions implies a sharper decline in GHG Developing this scenario pushed us to think critically about the emissions sometime after co-ordinated and unified action begins. characteristics of a plausible, relevant and consistent view of the future. Beyond a decline in GHG emissions, this transition necessitates a The process was valuable and provided us with a number of key takeaways significant period of negative emissions in the latter half of the century. including the need for co-ordinated global action on climate change, Requires co-ordinated and united action the power of carbon pricing to incentivize low-carbon technology, and the changing energy mix required to power the world’s economies Given the global nature of this challenge, our scenario indicates that amidst a growing population. Our work to develop this scenario is the an international alliance with a shared 2°C (or lower) ambition, along beginning of what we expect will be numerous opportunities to engage with transparent collaboration in technology, trade and environmental with stakeholders and other experts to refine it over time. approaches is essential. By the late 2020s, this scenario envisions an international group of nations taking a co-ordinated approach to Key insights pursuing more aggressive climate change action. Government plays Peak emissions an active role pricing carbon to discourage the consumption of high emissions intensity products and rewarding low GHG intensity products. Our 2°C scenario begins with a period of rising emissions, consistent Large organizations, including Suncor, also have a unique role to play in with the historical trend of increasing energy use and continues climate change solution scaling and commercialization. until approximately 2030. At this point, a combination of cost and Scenario pathways* Global GtCO2e/yr Suncor 2°C scenario pathway10 Additional 2°C or lower pathways 70 0 -30 2010 2020 2100 * Range of emissions pathways included in the chart above is an illustrative approximation derived from data consistent with 2°C or lower scenarios used or produced by organizations such as IHS Markit, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), the International Energy Agency (IEA) and other energy companies. For additional information about this chart and its data, please refer to performance data notes (#5.5 – additional GHG notes) 10 IHS Markit acted as external market consultant for this data and analysis, in 2019. The use of this content was authorized in advance by IHS. Any further use or redistribution of this content is strictly prohibited without written permission by IHS Markit. All rights reserved. Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 55 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change Strategy Broad-based carbon pricing Emissions reduction A price on carbon throughout the economy is required to reduce Our 2°C scenario takes a holistic view of emissions including both consumption and incent the adoption and improvement of low-carbon energy and non-energy sources. Today non-energy emissions represent technology. In this scenario, carbon prices are assumed to increase to approximately 25% of total GHG emissions. Aggressive emissions approximately US$300 per tonne CO2 (in real 2018 terms) by 2100 to reduction is required in all sectors, and solutions to remove GHGs from the compensate for the peak emissions period. atmosphere are required to reduce the total concentration of CO2 by 2100. In conjunction with carbon pricing, governments encourage marketAlthough there are challenges with reaching a net negative emissions based solutions within the alliance, including open carbon markets to state, this is seen to be more plausible than not having a peak emissions buy, sell and trade offsets across a vast economy. period in the early years of the scenario. It is in everyone’s interests to limit the peak emissions period; higher peak emissions will require more Shifting primary energy mix global effort for developing net negative emissions solutions which are Oil plays a continued, albeit diminished role to 2100, while renewables currently not feasible without new carbon capture technologies. and nuclear power become more prominent post-2050. 2°C scenario outcomes In the power sector, the demand for coal faces sustained pressure globally as a result of its relatively high emissions intensity. Renewables continue Conducting this 2°C scenario work is informing our collective to gain market share on improved cost profiles, dedicated policy support understanding of actionable steps as we transition to a low-carbon and the firm capacity offered by improved storage in the form of hydro, economy, including: batteries, and hydrogen. Nuclear power increases market penetration • adjusting our strategy to focus our leadership in areas where we can with lower costs, and new, safer technologies and policies. best support efforts to transition to a low-carbon economy In the transportation sector, the world shifts away from oil. Oil • developing a new ambition framework to complement our existing demand in the second half of the century transitions to demand for GHG intensity reduction goal petrochemical feedstock and materials. The decline is most pronounced • continuing to cultivate an integrated portfolio of low-carbon in the light duty vehicle segment where electrification, biofuel and investments into our base business such as low-carbon fuel and oil, hydrogen supply opportunities are assumed. The decline is slower in the low-carbon power, enhanced consumer engagement, and carbon heavy goods vehicle segment, and hydrogen as a transportation fuel capture and sequestration grows as costs come down. • continuing our participation in early stage investments in innovation, technology and clean energy venture capital funds to reduce GHG emissions. Scenario signposts Along with scenarios, we also develop and annually update our • while energy demand has been negatively impacted by signposts, which are milestones to identify critical shifts in the COVID-19, the long-term global energy mix shows signs of external context. The world is in a constant state of change, demand strength for all forms of energy sometimes moving faster than we expect; 2020 being a prime • volatility and uncertainty in geopolitical and global economic example with the COVID-19 pandemic paired with oil market turmoil. environments could hinder the growth of the global economy Tracking the pace and direction of the change is an integral part of our • technology continues to evolve at a rapid pace, which drives scenario work and helps us develop and evaluate strategic alternatives down costs and improves energy efficiencies for producers and for our business by incorporating both global and Canadian current consumers alike events, trends and actions. • economic priorities and geopolitical tensions appear to impede Signposts include changes in global energy demand and supply mix, co-ordination on climate change action political and economic indicators, climate data, policy and consumer • G20 member countries require further action to achieve their trends, and technology advances. Current signposts tell us: targets consistent with Paris commitments11. 11 United Nations Environment Programme (2019). Emissions Gap Report 2019. UNEP, Nairobi. Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 56 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change Strategy Leadership in climate policy • The development of provincial low-carbon policies such as: We operate in multiple jurisdictions across Canada and internationally, – Alberta’s Technology Innovation and Emissions Reduction Regulation requiring thoughtful constructive engagement with governments and – Quebec’s cap-and-trade program and Energy Transition Action Plan political parties, Indigenous Peoples, think tanks, universities, and – Ontario’s Emission Performance Standard and renewable environmental advocacy groups. These efforts help to advance the fuel regulations transition toward a low-carbon economy through the development of – British Columbia’s CleanBC Climate Action Plan and Renewable & smart policies that promote cost and carbon competitiveness. Low Carbon Fuel Requirements Regulation Good policy instills confidence in the industry, enables continued – Design of fair, efficient and openly competitive electricity policies. prosperity to help fund the low-carbon economy transition, and incents We also support several climate initiatives and participate in critical investment in technology and innovation that can lower emissions global energy discussions, including: globally. We continue to advocate for environmental policies and regulations that help us address climate change, including supporting • the Canadian Institute for Climate Choices, which assists government a broad-based price on carbon. If applied broadly across the economy decision-making through rigorous research and analysis, broad to producers and consumers, it can be one of many effective market engagement with experts, industry, and other key stakeholders and regulatory mechanisms to lower GHG emissions while promoting • the World Bank Carbon Pricing Leadership Coalition (CPLC), a low-carbon innovation. voluntary initiative that aspires to catalyze action toward the successful implementation of global carbon pricing We demonstrate our commitment to support fair, effective, practical and cost-efficient policy design by contributing to: • the World Economic Forum and the United Nations Climate Change Conference of Parties (COP). • The development of national low-carbon policies such as: – Pan-Canadian Framework on Clean Growth and Climate Change – Clean Fuels Standard (CFS) in Canada – Greenhouse Gas Pollution Pricing Act (GGPPA) which encompasses the development of the consumer fuel tax and the industrial outputbased pricing system and associated emissions trading program – Net-zero by 2050 and Just Transition legislation, both under development. Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 57 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change Strategy Carbon policy and impacts on Suncor Alberta Since the 2016 ratification of the Paris Agreement, the focus of A regulated carbon price applicable to large industrial sectors has governments globally is on the technology pathways and policy been in effect since 2007, and as of 2020 under the new provincial frameworks required to achieve a stable and responsible transition to Technology Innovation and Emissions Reduction Implementation Act a low-carbon energy system while continuing to meet rising global (TIER) our Oil Sands Base Plant, Fort Hills, Firebag, MacKay River, and demand for energy. We operate in many jurisdictions that regulate, or Edmonton refinery assets are subject to a carbon price of $30 per have proposed to regulate, industrial GHG emissions. Currently, 100% tonne. Starting in 2020, these facilities are also required to reduce of our Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions from assets and facilities we emissions by 10% and an additional 1% per year thereafter or assessed operate are in regions implementing various forms of carbon pricing at the prevailing carbon price. mechanisms and/or GHG reduction targets. Compliance costs in 2018 and 2019 under the previous Carbon We remain supportive of broad-based carbon pricing capable of Competitive Incentive Regulation were $47 million and $83 million. achieving sustainability and energy security objectives. It is also The Oil Sands Emissions Limit Act includes a precedent-setting 100 important that policies are designed to avoid the potential for carbon Mt emissions limit12 by 2030 on oil sands development. As a limit on and investment leakage by mitigating competitiveness impacts on emissions, rather than production, it allows production to grow as trade-exposed sectors while continuing to accelerate emissions long as the total emissions of the sector remain under the limit. The performance improvements. emissions limit is expected to encourage the innovation required to Additional information about environmental regulations and initiatives reduce both carbon and cost in the oil sands industry. related to climate change and GHG emissions relevant to our business is As of Jan. 1, 2020, the federal government partially imposed their available in our 2019 Annual Information Form. The following is a summary federal carbon pollution pricing system under the GGPPA where the of the direct impacts that carbon policies have on Suncor’s operations. federal economy-wide consumer carbon levy is applied on the use and combustion of fossil fuels in Alberta. Canadian federal government The federal Pan-Canadian Framework on Clean Growth and Climate Ontario Change (PCF) As a result of withdrawing its participation in the Western Climate • Requires all provinces and territories to implement a carbon price starting Initiative’s cap-and-trade program (WCI) with California and at $20 per tonne of CO2e in 2019, rising to $50 per tonne in 2022. Quebec in 2018, Ontario became subject to the two-part federal • Jurisdictions can implement an explicit price-based system, a carbon government GGPPA program in 2019. Suncor’s Sarnia refinery and St. levy and performance-based system, or a cap-and-trade system. Clair ethanol plant are both regulated facilities under the federal OBPS. Within these programs, provinces have discretion to manage In 2019, under the OBPS, the Sarnia refinery qualified for emissions competitiveness of their energy-intensive, trade-exposed industries. credits of $430,000, and the St. Clair ethanol plant’s compliance cost was $750,000. The Greenhouse Gas Pollution Pricing Act (GGPPA) Suncor continues to work with the provincial government as it explores • Serves as a regulatory carbon pricing backstop to the PCF for a proposed Emissions Performance Standards carbon pricing system for jurisdictions that request it or have not otherwise implemented a large emitters. The federal government’s GGPPA, however, may be in compliant carbon-pricing regime. place until provincial and territorial programs are reviewed in 2022. • Consists of an economy-wide consumer carbon levy on the use and combustion of fossil fuels and a regulatory emissions trading Newfoundland and Labrador system known as an output-based pricing system (OBPS). The OPBS Performance standards for large industrial facilities in Newfoundland is applied to heavy industrial sectors and is partially adjusted to and Labrador are legislated under the Management of Greenhouse Gas mitigate the competitiveness impacts on trade-exposed sectors like Act (MGGA) and associated regulations. Applicable to facilities that oil and gas. It imposes limits on emissions, a “credit” for entities that emit more than 25,000 tonnes of GHG’s per year, the MGGA’s carbon operate below their limit, and a “charge” for those who exceed it. price is consistent with the federal scheme for 2019 at $20 per tonne Clean Fuel Standard (under development) of CO2e increasing to $30 per tonne in 2020. • Objective of achieving annual CO2e emissions reductions of 30 megatonnes (Mt) by 2030 and is expected to be finalized and enacted 2022-2023. 12 Emissions from the production of power through cogeneration are excluded from this limit, as is an incremental 10 Mt of upgrading capacity. Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 58 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change Strategy Regulated facilities are assigned a GHG reduction target of 6% below U.S. GHG regulations their 2016 to 2017 historical average emissions-to-output ratio for The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (U.S. EPA) mandates that 2019. The reduction target rises to 10% below its 2016 to 2018 all large facilities (facilities emitting greater than 25,000 tonnes of historical average for 2020, then 10% below in 2021 and 12% below CO2e per year, including Suncor’s refinery in Commerce City, Colo.) in 2020 and subsequent years. Fixed process emissions are excluded must report their GHG emissions. The mandate of the U.S. EPA is and for offshore petroleum facilities, the MGGA further excludes both under review by the current administration. In 2019, Colorado passed methane from venting and fugitive emissions because they are already a suite of energyand climate-related legislation including state-wide federally regulated. The 2019 compliance obligation for our operated GHG reduction targets for 2025, 2030 and 2050. The legislation also Terra Nova asset was $2.3 million. includes rules to reduce emissions from the oil and gas sector and to transition Colorado’s electricity system to become 80% renewable by Quebec 2030, and 100% renewable by 2040. Suncor’s Montreal refinery in Quebec is regulated under a cap-andtrade program linked to the WCI. Regulated refining facilities receive Suncor continues to monitor these developments. The outcome of an allowance allocation that aligns with a performance benchmark these changes in approach to GHG emissions is currently unclear and accounting for competitiveness and trade exposure. In 2019, our the impact on Suncor, including its Commerce City refinery, is unknown Montreal refinery’s cost of compliance for stationary emissions was $2 at the time of publication. million. Fuel suppliers are also required to purchase allowances to cover the tailpipe emissions of all fuel sold, the cost of which is expected to be largely passed-on to the consumer, thus acting as a carbon price Impact of climate change regulations akin to an additional tax on fuel consumption. Our 2020 carbon price outlook applies provincial and federal carbon regimes within Canada and a price of $30 per tonne Transportation fuels policies in Canada of CO2e, assuming a steady increase to approximately $100 Transportation emissions account for approximately 25% of total per tonne on an increasing percentage of our emissions by emissions in Canada13. Jurisdictions across the country are considering 2040. As most of our facilities are regulated under various policy mandates and incentives for alternative fuels, as well as major carbon-pricing regimes, the impact of our outlook is built into public transit and urban planning initiatives intended to reduce the our planning assumptions. carbon intensity of transportation. New this year, we’ve evaluated the outlook and cost impacts British Columbia’s Renewable and Low-Carbon Fuel Requirement for emerging and evolving emissions regulations and how Regulation requires fuel suppliers to meet a provincial fuel pool they apply to GHG emissions (scope 1 and 2), from the carbon-intensity target through blending incremental renewable fuel working interests in both our upstream and downstream or investing in alternative fuels infrastructure. Federal and provincial assets. An improvement upon previous disclosures, these renewable fuel standards mandate blending of ethanol into gasoline estimates more accurately reflect the integrated nature of and blending biodiesel into diesel. Under these standards, fuel suppliers our business. The after-tax cost per barrel of our upstream net like Suncor incur a cost to acquire and blend the incremental renewable production over the next ten years is estimated at an average fuels, which is largely passed on to the consumer. of $0.33 cents per barrel. The estimated average after-tax cost per barrel of our downstream saleable yield over this same In addition, the federal government has recently proposed period is $0.13 cents per barrel14. implementing a national Clean Fuels Standard (CFS), applicable to liquid, gaseous and solid fuels used in Canada. Rather than increasing the federal carbon price, the CFS will compel producers, distributors and importers to increase the use of lower-carbon fuels, energy sources, and technologies. It is intended to be complementary and additional to other climate policies such as the federal carbon levy rising to $50/t in 2022. It is expected that the CFS will ultimately result in additional costs being passed on to Canadian consumers. 13 https://www.canada.ca/en/environment-climate-change/services/environmental-indicators/greenhouse-gas-emissions.html 14 These figures reflect our best understanding of carbon emissions regulations, policy impacts and production forecasts at the time of publication, many of which are in flux with a high degree of uncertainty. Upstream includes Oil Sands and Exploration & Production segments. Downstream includes Refining and Logistics and biofuels production, excluding distribution. Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 59 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change Metrics and targets GHG emissions and energy use The GHG performance in our other upstream oil sands operations was slightly higher than their three-year average. These variations are attributed 2019 GHG performance15 to a combination of factors such as curtailment, a longer-than-usual outage Through Suncor’s culture of operational excellence, we focus on safe, event at MacKay River which disproportionately affected production in reliable and energy-efficient operations. 2019, and higher steam-to-oil ratio (SOR) at the Firebag facility. In 2019, Suncor’s company-wide absolute GHG emissions were The emissions intensity of our downstream Refining and Logistics facilities 23 million tonnes of CO2e. 2019 was also the first full year of remained relatively flat in 2019, driven by maintained energy efficiency operations for the Fort Hills facility, although this asset operated at improvement initiatives and optimized refinery utilization rates. lower-than-optimal utilization due to the Government of Alberta GHG emissions are closely linked to energy use, with approximately mandatory production curtailment16. 90% of direct GHG emissions and nearly all indirect emissions While both the total emissions and production increased approximately accounted for by consumption of energy for operations. 4% year-over-year, the lower GHG emissions intensity associated with Suncor is committed to continuously improving energy management the paraffinic froth treatment (PFT) extraction process at Fort Hills helped and reducing GHG emissions as part of everyday operational excellence. to maintain the corporate emissions intensity flat compared to 2018, at Similar to the GHG trends, energy use slightly increased in 2019 with 62 kilograms (kg)of CO2e per barrel (bbl) of oil equivalent production. the addition of Fort Hills but total intensity remained relatively flat. Suncor-wide absolute GHG emissions Suncor-wide GHG emissions intensity thousand tonnes CO2 equivalents (CO2e) kg CO2e / barrel (bbl) of saleable product 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 30,000 80 60 20,000 40 10,000 20 0 0 Suncor total CO2e emissions 20,468 20,480 18,739 19,874 21,990 22,777* Actual CO2e emissions intensity 69 65 63 63 62 62* (per bbl OE) Oil Sands Base Plant – 3,515 3,662 3,026 3,816 3,299 3,953 Mining and Extraction Oil Sands Base Plant – Mining and Extraction 41 38 41 40 41 44 (per bbl bitumen) Oil Sands Base Plant – 5,027 5,023 4,112 4,638 4,569 4,687 Upgrading Oil Sands Base Plant – Upgrading 40 36 36 33 36 33 (per bbl SCO) Oil Sands Fort Hills – – – – 2,147 2,318 Oil Sands Fort Hills (per bbl bitumen) – – – – 41 36 Oil Sands In Situ 5,610 5,620 5,443 5,420 6,282 5,979 Firebag 4,903 4,991 4,810 4,710 5,330 5,156 Oil Sands In Situ (per bbl bitumen) 68 62 61 62 64 67 MacKay River 707 628 633 710 953 823 Exploration and Production Canada (per bbl OE) 38 40 44 55 54 46 Exploration and Production 684 568 581 650 615 520 Refining and Logistics (per bbl saleable yield) 32 32 32 30 29 29 Canada NAO 42 20 21 20 N/A N/A Biofuels (per bbl OE) 104 105 104 104 104 110 Canada Terra Nova 642 548 560 630 615 520 Refining and Logistics 5,467 5,438 5,410 5,187 4,917 5,152 Absolute CO2e emissions represents the total Scope 1 and 2 emissions with no credit taken for Commerce City 1,183 1,101 1,126 1,164 1,125 1,134 low-carbon power production. The power credit above is calculated using the cogeneration Edmonton 1,694 1,734 1,779 1,794 1,542 1,773 power exported to the Alberta grid and the intensity in which this power was generated. It is included in determining the GHG emissions intensities. Lubes 426 386 420 N/A N/A N/A Montreal 1,160 1,204 1,143 1,219 1,187 1,141 The Suncor-total intensity calculation incorporates net facility production, minus internal 1,017 transfers, resulting in a production value reflective of our product sales to market. Sarnia 918 918 862 932 982 Other (including Burrard terminal, 86 95 81 77 80 88 Our Oil Sands Base Plant operations reflect integration between mining activity that recovers oil Montreal Sulphur Plant and Pipelines) sands bitumen, and upgrading portions of this mined oil sands bitumen along-with some in situ production. The upgrader’s end product is refinery-ready synthetic crude oil (SCO). Biofuels 165 169 166 164 160 169 Converting corn into fuel is more energy intensive than turning hydrocarbons into fuel. We are Power credit 830 826 943 641 1,005 916 evaluating optimization work at our St. Clair facility to develop lower carbon intensity ethanol. The GHG benefit of biofuels is that the carbon emitted during end-use combustion came * Our total GHG emissions and total GHG emissions intensity figures have been reviewed from plants that recently captured CO2 from the atmosphere. Its combustion is considered net and assured by Ernst & Young LLP. neutral with regards to carbon emissions. For additional information about this chart and its data please refer to the performance data notes 3, 4 and 5 15 All GHG performance values reflect Suncor-operated facilities only and represent 100% of the direct and indirect emissions at these facilities. Data is not broken down by working interest and does not include non-operated facilities. 16 https://www.alberta.ca/oil-production-limit.aspx Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 60 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change Metrics and targets Performance highlights Refining and Logistics Total GHG emissions at our downstream facilities increased 5% to 5.2 Oil Sands Base Plant million tonnes of CO2e. Performance in 2019 was comparable to 2017, Despite the Government of Alberta mandatory production curtailments, as there were various turnarounds and shutdowns at refineries in 2018. 2019 production increased 12% due to major maintenance turnaround Emissions intensity held relatively steady compared to 2018, at 29 kg of events at the upgrader in 2018. As a result, absolute emissions from CO2e per bbl of oil equivalent, which is approximately 6% lower than operations increased 10% from 7.9 million tonnes of CO2e in 2018 the 2015-2017 average intensity. to 8.6 million tonnes of CO2e in 2019. Emissions intensity decreased slightly, to 72 kg of CO2e per bbl of oil equivalent, largely due to Low-carbon power and low-carbon fuels increased production. We are currently a partner in four operational wind power facilities with a generating capacity of 111 megawatts (MW), enough to power about Fort Hills mining 52,000 Canadian homes. In 2019, the Adelaide wind power facility in 2019 represented the first full year of operations at Fort Hills, Ontario that we operate, in partnership with Aamjiwnaang First Nation, resulting in 26% higher production compared to 2018. This asset was generated approximately 98,500 MWh of electricity. Performance disproportionately impacted by the mandatory curtailment and was data reflects operated wind farms only and is not adjusted to reflect not able to operate at full rates throughout 2019. Despite operating at ownership share. higher production rates than 2018, absolute emissions only increased 8%, with the facility accounting for 2.3 million tonnes of CO2e We’ve been blending ethanol in our retail fuels since 1992 and our compared to 2.1 million tonnes of CO2e in 2018. This is because the St. Clair ethanol plant is the single largest ethanol production facility facility was not operating as efficiently during ramp-up in 2018. in Canada. There were no notable changes in plant performance in 2019. Absolute emissions were 0.169 million tonnes CO2 and emissions The less energyand carbon-intensive extraction process used at Fort intensity was 110 kg of CO2e per bbl of oil equivalent. Converting Hills removes heavy hydrocarbon molecules to create a lighter, highercorn into fuel is more energy intensive than turning hydrocarbons into quality bitumen requiring less diluent for shipping. As a result, the fuel, and we are evaluating optimization work at our St. Clair facility to 2019 GHG intensity of production decreased by 13% to 36 kg of CO2e develop lower carbon intensity ethanol. The GHG benefit of biofuels is per bbl of oil equivalent and full life cycle (well-to-wheels) emissions that the carbon emitted during end-use combustion came from plants intensity was similar to the average refined barrel in the U.S.17 that recently captured CO2 from the atmosphere. Its combustion is considered net neutral with regards to carbon emissions. In Situ The absolute emissions at our steam assisted gravity drainage (SAGD) Cogeneration produces low-carbon-intensity power along with operations decreased 5% year over year to about 6.0 million tonnes industrial steam, and we operate units at our Oil Sands Base Plant, of CO2e, due to the Government of Alberta-mandated production Firebag, and Fort Hills facilities. Our owned and operated cogeneration curtailment that more significantly impacted the Firebag asset. Suncor’s power production at these sites was approximately 6.5 million MWh In Situ facility intensity was 5% higher compared to the previous in 2019, with about half in excess and exported to the provincial grid. year, at 67 kg of CO2e per bbl of oil equivalent in 2019. The intensity Suncor’s cogeneration units produce power at a GHG intensity at less increase was due to curtailment and a higher steam-oil-ratio at Firebag than half of the current Alberta grid. in 2019, and an extended outage at the MacKay River facility. Exploration and Production On the East Coast of Canada, Terra Nova emissions decreased 15% to 0.5 million tonnes CO2e in 2019. The 2019 emissions intensity decreased by 15% as well, from 54 kg of CO2e per bbl of oil equivalent to 46 kg of CO2e per bbl of oil equivalent. The reduction of emissions was due to a significant decrease in flaring in 2019. Terra Nova is the only East Coast Canada asset that Suncor operates. Other international and offshore production interests are joint ventures and not within our direct operational control. 17 IHS Energy Special Report: Comparing GHG intensity of the Oil Sands and the Average US Crude Oil. May 2014. Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 61 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change Metrics and targets Integrating our GHG performance goal While we’ve made progress since establishing our goal in 2016, we realize the scale of the challenge globally to pursue a low-carbon future. Our GHG goal is intended to embed low-carbon thinking into the day-to-day activities and decisions of our employees and challenge us Over the next decade, our goal will be driving operational, energy to harness technology and innovation necessary for transformational and fuel efficiency improvements, accelerating the development and solutions. Our progress will be measured by reducing the total implementation of new technologies, and encouraging the evaluation emissions intensity of the production of our oil and petroleum products of potential low-carbon business opportunities. The figure below by 30% by 2030, from a baseline year of 201418. reflects progress in reducing operational intensity up to 2020 and our current analysis of the contributions from several potential emissions This ambitious goal stretches us beyond our current technology, and reduction focus areas in helping to achieve our goal. We will continue ultimately aims to alter the trajectory of our absolute emissions while to work to close the gap in our goal progress over the next decade, still allowing us to grow, with the intent to make us a producer of lowrealizing the need to continue seeking opportunities to collaborate with carbon intensity crude, refined products and other sources of energy. solutions-oriented partners in reducing emissions in the energy system. GHG goal Reducing emissions intensity by 30% by 2030 Implementing & improving Developing and deploying Running operations Investing in energy efficiency new technologies on natural gas low-carbon power moving to low-carbon fuels Harnessing technology, innovation and collaboration to set us on a pathway to a low-carbon energy system Achieved ~10% intensity reduction achieved to date • Fort Hills extraction technology • Energy efficiency Sanctioned ~10% intensity reduction sanctioned • New cogeneration • Forty Mile Wind Power Project Identified and new opportunities • Biofuels technology investments • Renewables (wind) • Energy efficiency • Enhanced extraction technology • Collaborative, solutions-oriented partnerships 2014 2030 Baseline Reducing emissions intensity by 30% Target 18 We expect there to be impacts to our GHG intensity due to government mandated production curtailment and COVID-19 impact on demand. Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 62 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change Metrics and targets We are targeting emissions reductions in four key areas Energy efficiency and continuous Investing in low-carbon power improvement Our GHG goal is also driving us to seek and evaluate new We continue to drive energy efficiency at business opportunities in our value chain all our facilities, including: and within the evolving energy system. • implementation of new digital technologies such as advanced • All our oil sands facilities use cogeneration, and we are a net process control at Firebag, which through digital optimization can exporter of power to Alberta’s electricity grid. By producing both maximize steam generation, use this steam more efficiently, and industrial steam and electricity through a natural gas-fuelled process, increase oil production through optimized reservoir management cogeneration is the most energy-efficient form of hydrocarbon• development and roll-out of energy/GHG key performance indicators based power generation. The GHG intensity of the power produced (KPIs) at our upstream sites to continue to develop an energy from our cogeneration units is approximately 75% below that of an management mindset within Operations average coal-fired power plant and 30% below a combined-cycle • leveraging operational experience in the design of new facilities to natural gas facility. Excess power from our cogeneration facilities and significantly lower energy intensity our wind energy significantly contribute to reducing the overall GHG intensity of Alberta’s electricity grid. • use of extraction technology at Fort Hills that removed heavy hydrocarbon molecules at the source, and a facility design leveraging • We have sanctioned a project to replace the GHG-intensive cokehigh-efficiency cogeneration, recovery of warm process water, and fired boilers with a natural gas-fired cogeneration facility at our Oil closed-loop cooling for enhanced process heat capture. Sands Base Plant. In addition to providing the facility with steam and hot water needed for our operations, the cogeneration facility is expected to export up to 800 MW of low GHG-intensity electricity to Developing and deploying new the provincial grid in Alberta19. technologies • In addition to our current partnerships in wind power, in 2019, we Our goal pushes us to go beyond today’s capabilities, sanctioned phase one (200 MW) of the Forty Mile Wind Power and we are aggressively working on new technologies Project in Alberta. We continue to evaluate renewable energy that lower the costs and carbon emissions of our investments that deliver economic, environmental and social benefits. processes and products. We invested $830 million in technology development and deployment Moving to low-carbon fuels We continue to look for synergistic low-carbon opportunities and digital technologies in 2019 as part of a robust strategy to optimize in our operations and evaluate new business current assets and develop next-generation facilities. Emissions-related opportunities in sustainable fuels. technology development was approximately 50% of the technology development spend including solvents, upgrading technologies and biofuels. Out of the $830 million invested, this reflects: • In addition to providing low-carbon power, our sanctioned boiler • $224M technology development spend (includes COSIA, Syncrude replacement project at Base Plant will replace coke combustion with R&D and direct strategic investments such as Evok, Emerald, ArcTern lower carbon intensity natural gas. Ventures, Enerkem, LanzaTech) • We continue investing in renewable fuels including our 2019 • $250M on technology deployment spend on permanent aquatic storage investment in Enerkem which manufactures biofuels and renewable structure (PASS), our demonstration pit lake called Lake Miwasin, chemical products from household garbage that would otherwise autonomous haul systems (AHS) and other smaller deployments be landfilled. • $356M digital transformation • We are evaluating optimization work at our St. Clair ethanol plant to increase the quality of our products to develop lower-carbonintensity ethanol. • We also continue to invest in sustainable fuel technology companies such as LanzaTech and LanzaJet. 19 This project has been sanctioned. Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 63 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change Metrics and targets Goal methodology operations and indirectly within the energy system for the products we produce. We also continue to promote safe and efficient production in Suncor’s GHG goal is intended to improve decision-making, and our our non-operated assets. methodology is specifically designed to encourage business choices that will reduce emissions in the global energy system. To support this Capturing indirect credits for the actions and/or investments change, we have established principles that guide the implementation that reduce emissions outside our operational fence lines of the goal. The goal should: Indirect emissions are not directly attributed to our operations but are • Drive real emissions reductions in the energy system both within and required to produce our products and include the electricity, hydrogen, external to Suncor’s operations. or steam that we import from third-party suppliers. In addition to this, • Encourage new, lower-intensity production as part of our evaluation our low-carbon products can help reduce indirect emissions within the of new projects. Embedding the GHG goal and carbon price energy system. For example, the cogeneration power we transmit to assumptions within our asset development execution model enables Alberta’s electricity grid displaces high-carbon sources of power. a rigorous process to promote the selection of efficient assets Adjusting the goal to account for changes in asset mix and technology for any new oil sands, offshore, downstream and To drive emissions reductions to meet our goal, we adjust our baseline renewable projects. to account for change of product sales mix, asset acquisitions or We rely on the following criteria to measure progress against our goal: divestitures. For example, reducing the sales volume of premium synthetic crude could reduce Suncor’s direct emissions but would Tracking the GHG intensity of our production within the simply shift emissions downstream and not result in emissions facilities we operate reduction overall. Similarly, buying low-carbonor selling high-carbonOur goal focuses on the assets we control and operate. The baseline intensity assets simply transfers ownership and does not reduce global GHG emissions intensity of our operated assets therefore includes atmospheric emissions. If we change our product mix or portfolio of the direct (Scope 1) and indirect (Scope 2) emissions of our facilities. assets, we adjust our goal baseline so that these transactions do not We can then identify opportunities to reduce emissions directly in our benefit or hinder our ability to meet our goal. Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 64 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change Low-carbon innovation In today’s complex and rapidly changing world, it will take new technologies and innovative thinking to further reduce our environmental footprint. GHG: Technology development & deployment Discover Design Develop Deploy Improve carbon Technology Novel subsurface NRG COSIA Carbon XPRIZE ES-SAGD intensity of collaborations* geotechnologies (Expanding solvent – steam Suncor's base – COSIA Solvent+ assisted gravity drainage) business – CRIN High temperature reverse – Evok Innovations osmosis produced water Non aqueous extraction Paraffinic froth treatment – ArcTern Ventures treatment – Academic and Partial upgrading research institutions Alternative upgrading Alternative upgrading Integrated thermal Slurry phase hydrocracking processing New Low-carbon energy Natural gas decarbonization Sustainable liquid fuels Sustainable liquid fuels low-carbon generation opportunities LanzaTech and LanzaJet Municipal solid waste to energy Low-carbon ethanol ethanol (Enerkem) ventures Bitumen beyond combustion production and new products Available for commercial implementation Operational 0-3 Years 4-6 Years 7-10 Years Examples provided for illustration from the Suncor technology portfolio. Additional information is available at sustainability.suncor.com/innovation * Our technology collaboration efforts span across various stages of technology development and deployment. Information about our collaboration and partnership efforts to advance innovation are provided throughout this report. Our approach to innovation includes not only technological innovations before the downstream processing. The oil sands are the only place in to change our methods and processes of extraction and production but the world that alters the carbon content of oil at the production source it also includes an innovative mindset to work with and learn from others. before sending it to the market. In some instances, the development and deployment of the As a result of this partial decarbonization process, our greenhouse gas technologies we’re pursuing will take us beyond 2030. emissions for the average barrel extracted at Fort Hills are similar to the average crude refined in the United States20 on a full life cycle basis. Low-carbon mining technologies Non-aqueous extraction We are developing technologies that will allow us to produce crude oil Through partnerships with equipment suppliers and research from our oil sands projects at a supply cost and with an environmental organizations, we are pursuing new technologies to reduce the need footprint (production through refining and consumption) at or below for water in bitumen extraction from mining operations. Currently, that of conventional oil. This could be achieved in part through the warm water is used to separate bitumen from the sands. By replacing selective decarbonization of our oil sands products. that water with an alternative solvent, we have the potential to Paraffinic froth treatment significantly reduce tailings, costs, and our GHG emissions. We have Fort Hills uses paraffinic froth treatment (PFT) for secondary extraction. progressed early engineering of the field demonstration unit and This process selectively removes the low value, heavy fraction of the technology work continues with a number of partners to advance the mined bitumen and produces a lighter, higher-quality bitumen that technology. We are working with COANDA Research and Development, requires less diluent to transport and requires no additional upgrading Innotech Alberta, CanmetEnergy, Devon, and Exergy Solutions, as well as several academic institutions. 20 IHS Energy Special Report: Comparing GHG Intensity of the Oil Sands and the Average US Crude Oil. May 2014. Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 65 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change Low-carbon innovation Low-carbon in situ technologies In 2020, we completed the solvent injection period of the pad-scale demonstration at Firebag and we’re now in the monitoring phase Our current technology for in situ production, steam assisted gravity post injection, including solvent recovery. We continue to evaluate drainage (SAGD), employs two parallel horizontal wells to recover the opportunities to optimize solvent recovery. The estimated emissions bitumen. The top well distributes steam to heat the reservoir, allowing intensity reduction on a full well life cycle basis is 5 to 10%. We have the bitumen to flow to the lower well where it can be pumped to the regulatory approval for ES-SAGD to deploy on future commercial pads. surface. One of the challenges of SAGD is that it is energy intensive because the reservoir is typically heated to 200°C or more to get the bitumen to flow, consuming a significant amount of natural gas, and necessitating large amounts of water handling and treatment for steam production. We are advancing a portfolio of in situ technologies to lower the carbon intensity of producing bitumen and improve cost competitiveness for existing processes and for future assets. This means considering how to reduce steam as the dominant process and if successful, would significantly reduce our upstream GHG emissions intensity. We believe the solution will include a hybrid of the technologies we’re progressing with the aim to reduce energy and water use, lower capital and operating costs, and improve production rates and resource recovery. Solvents To reduce GHG emissions, we are focused on hydrocarbon solvents as an alternative to steam for bitumen production from in situ reservoirs. Our current focus on solvent recovery processes builds on our experience and background knowledge of solvent-dominated processes, gained from participation in pilots and testing for more than 20 years. In the solvent-based processes Suncor is pursuing, a light hydrocarbon solvent such as propane or butane is used as the primary means to mobilize the bitumen. We are beginning to pilot a suite of technologies Low-carbon upgrading technologies referred to as Solvent+, where the “+” refers to a range of heating We process crude oil into high-quality refined products consumers technologies that can be coupled with solvent injection. These include require. We continue to look for opportunities to minimize the wellbore heating, superheated solvent injection, electromagnetic-assisted environmental impact that results from the extraction and production of solvent extraction (EASE) and Enhanced Solvent Extraction Incorporating oil, and manufacturing and distribution of fuels. Electromagnetic Heating (ESEIEH®). If successful, Solvent+ offers the potential for several significant environmental improvements over SAGD Partial upgrading including reducing upstream GHG emissions intensity by 50 to 70%. We are advancing technology development to partially upgrade ES-SAGD bitumen, which would increase value by decreasing the cost to upgrade and reducing the amount of diluent required to transport this new Expanding Solvent SAGD (ES-SAGD) is an enhancement of SAGD bitumen product, and lower greenhouse gas (GHG) intensity from technology wherein a small volume of hydrocarbon solvent is co-injected extraction to the end user. The technology when realized could also with steam. The addition of the hydrocarbon solvent is expected to integrate with existing Suncor infrastructure. accelerate bitumen production and reduce steam requirements, process water requirements and greenhouse gas emissions. An important We are progressing research at the Western Research Institute in component of our evaluation of this technology is enhancing our Laramie, Wyo., where we are using the pilot facility for our partial understanding of solvent retention and recovery. upgrading development work in 2020 and 2021. ESEIEH® is a registered trademark of L3Harris Technologies Inc. in the US, Canada, and other countries. Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 66 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change Low-carbon innovation Low-carbon innovation in renewable LanzaJet liquid fuels LanzaJet will produce sustainable aviation fuel from ethanol derived from a variety of sustainable sources, including wastes and residues. As Since 2006, Suncor has been making a significant impact in Canada’s a founding investor alongside Mitsui & Co., Ltd. and LanzaTech, Suncor’s emerging biofuels industry. Our ethanol plant provides the ethanol that participation will enable the construction of a biorefinery at the Freedom we blend into our gasoline and we continue to research lower-carbonPines site in Soperton, Ga., and accelerate global commercial access to intensity ethanol. new sustainable fuels for the aviation sector as it seeks to decarbonize. We are advancing an active portfolio of projects with universities and companies aimed at developing pathways to produce advanced biofuels Enerkem from waste, forestry and agricultural excess biomass, and refinery gases. In 2019 we invested in Enerkem, which manufactures biofuels These biofuels have the potential to significantly reduce GHG emissions. and renewable chemical products from household garbage that Examples of our actions in this area include: would otherwise be landfilled. In addition to a financial investment, • participating in the Alberta-Based Biorefinery (AB-Bio) project with a number of Suncor employees have been seconded to Enerkem’s Alberta Innovates to de-risk sustainable Alberta-based feedstocks to facility in Edmonton. produce low-carbon fuels Low-carbon intensity ethanol • increasing renewable fuel options for our diesel and gasoline Working with Alberta-based forestry resources, Emissions Reductions blending, including investment in hydrotreated renewable diesel Alberta and LanzaTech, we are advancing a pilot scale production of (HRD) and fatty acid methyl ester (FAME) ethanol at a low-carbon intensity. The pilot project converts woody • investing in companies advancing clean and renewable fuel biomass into renewable ethanol through the gasification of the biomass production capacity. into syngas, and then the fermentation of the syngas into ethanol. By leading this initiative in a regional context, we have the opportunity LanzaTech to create a new value chain that would support the commercial LanzaTech’s carbon recycling platform uses novel gas fermentation development of advanced biofuels in Alberta. technology to capture CO-rich gases and convert the carbon to fuels and chemicals. For over 10 years, Suncor has partnered with LanzaTech to support the development of their patented technology portfolio for potential deployment within our existing operations as well as nextgeneration biofuel plants. Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 67 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change Suncor strives to be an industry leader in sustainable energy development by continued performance improvements in air emissions, water withdrawals, land reclamation and biodiversity. › Air quality › Water stewardship › Tailings management Environment › Land and reclamation › Biodiversity 92% water recycle rate at Oil Sands Base Plant operations 2.3x 2019 volume of fluid tailings treated vs. fluid tailings produced 365,000 tree and shrub seedlings planted at Base Plant Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change Air quality Suncor is committed to maintaining and improving air quality near all our operations. Suncor endeavours to become a leading sustainable energy supplier while maintaining and improving air quality near all our operations. Suncor participates in programs to improve our air Guided by our monitoring capability and understanding with the goal of reducing our air emissions intensity Environment, Health over time. This includes testing and piloting new technologies to grow our understanding of characterization of air emissions. and Safety Policy and through operational excellence Suncor works to reduce air emissions from our operations, through operational excellence, and bold innovation, we strive to project design and innovation and technology. Our focus for air quality management is centred manage and minimize impacts on air emissions (pollutants and greenhouse gases) and odours. Management of air emissions is important for employees and contractors, the surrounding communities and the environment. on the environment and improve performance. Compliance and monitoring programs Suncor participates in various provincial and regional emissions management framework programs. All our operations have controls and procedures in place to manage emissions. We also support air monitoring via various airsheds/organizations that monitor and report air quality, ensuring timely availability of results to the public and regulatory agencies in all areas of operations. Continuous improvement We have introduced a number of initiatives at several of our refineries, plants and worksites to help reduce releases of key air pollutants. Examples of technologies and measures implemented to mitigate air emissions include: • low nitrogen oxides (NOX) boilers and heaters • vapor recovery units to reduce volatile organic compounds (VOC) and hydrogen sulfide emissions • sulphur recovery units and scrubbers to reduce sulphur dioxide (SO2) emissions • leak detection and repair programs to manage and reduce fugitive emissions on site • VOC and total reduced Sulphur (TRS) annual monitoring plan to reduce fugitive emissions from mining operations • selective catalytic reduction technology will be implemented as part of Suncor’s Oil Sands Base Plant Coke Boiler Replacement Project to achieve lower NOX emissions. Collaboration Suncor regularly engages with community stakeholders, government, and other external agencies on odours, to discuss best practices and odour management strategies, and regularly organizes meetings between industry and community members to discuss any concerns. We’re also engaged in researching and testing new methods and technologies to monitor fugitive emissions. One way we do this is through our involvement in Canada’s Oil Sands Innovation Alliance (COSIA), where we support technology development and shared learnings with other partner companies. Other external groups we participate and engage with include the Wood Buffalo Environmental Association, and the Fort McKay Air Quality and Odours Advisory Committee. Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 69 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change Air quality SO2 emissions 15 16 17 18 19 intensity kg/bbl Oil Sands Base Plant 0.11 0.13 0.11 0.13 0.11 Oil Sands Fort Hills – – – 0.00 0.00 Oil Sands In Situ 0.00 0.01 0.00 0.00 0.01 E&P Terra Nova 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Refining and Logistics 0.03 0.04 0.04 0.04 0.04 Suncor total SO2 0.06 0.07 0.07 0.06 0.06 emissions intensity NOX emissions 15 16 17 18 19 intensity kg/bbl Air quality performance Our key focus areas for air emissions monitoring and reductions include SO2, NOX and VOCs. Oil Sands Base Plant 0.17 0.17 0.16 0.19 0.21 Oil Sands Fort Hills – – – 0.09 0.05 Sulphur dioxide Oil Sands In Situ 0.03 0.03 0.03 0.03 0.04 In 2019, SO2 emission intensity was relatively consistent with 2018 performance. Reliable E&P Terra Nova 0.16 0.18 0.20 0.19 0.21 Refining and Logistics 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.02 operations, fewer plant upsets and reduction in flaring have contributed to stable SO2 intensity Suncor total NOX 0.09 0.09 0.09 0.10 0.11 over the last five years. emissions intensity Nitrogen oxides We saw a 8% increase in NOX emissions intensity in 2019. This was primarily due to increased VOC emissions 15 16 17 18 19 intensity diesel consumption for the mine fleet as well as higher utilization of the coke boiler following kg/bbl a 2018 scheduled turnaround at Oil Sands Base Plant. When operational, Suncor’s Oil Sands Base Plant Coke Boiler Replacement Project will achieve lower NOX emissions through the use of selective catalytic reduction technology. Oil Sands Base Plant 0.13 0.15 0.14 0.17 0.13 Volatile organic compounds Oil Sands Fort Hills – – – 0.02 0.01 Oil Sands In Situ 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 In 2019, VOC emission intensity decreased by 24% relative to 2018 performance. This is mainly E&P Terra Nova 0.05 0.01 0.13 0.17 0.03 due to the repair of Terra Nova’s hydrocarbon blanket gas and recovery system as well as a Refining and Logistics 0.03 0.03 0.02 0.02 0.02 Suncor total VOC 0.07 0.07 0.08 0.08 0.06 decrease in annual fugitive emissions at Fort Hills and Base Plant driven by the annual monitoring emissions intensity campaign as per the VOC and TRS monitoring plan. The Suncor Commerce City refinery experienced two separate operational incidents (Q4 2019 For additional information about this chart and its data, please refer to performance data notes (#7 – notes on air emissions) and Q1 2020) resulting in catalyst being released from the Plant 2 fluidized catalytic cracker (FCC) unit. Incident investigations identified that for the 2019 incident, too much gas oil (also called torch oil) was added to the FCC during startup, and for the 2020 incident, faulty wiring in the air blower caused the event. A number of steps have been taken to help mitigate the reoccurrence of these incidents, including; updating the startup procedures, training on these procedures, clarifying roles and responsibilities during startup and repairs to equipment. Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 70 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change Water stewardship We believe water is a shared and precious resource that must be managed wisely using a balanced, integrated and sustainable approach. Suncor is committed to responsible development in all areas where we operate. Water management is critical to us as a company, to neighbouring communities and to our stakeholders. We strive to raise the bar on water performance and water management practices across all our operations. Water is an essential part of Suncor’s operations. We believe it is important to find ways to continuously improve our water use efficiency (including limiting water withdrawals and maximizing recycling and safe return) across our business units. Focus on water Suncor is committed to water stewardship Recognizing our role as a steward of a valuable natural resource, we have a water strategy in and we are developing a robust place that is enabled by the following principles: framework that will more meaningfully • Shared value of water: Understanding that water is a valuable natural resource that holds focus our future efforts on water. environmental, social, cultural and economic value. • Watershed management: Understanding our water use in the context of the watershed where we operate, taking into consideration all values, stakeholders, and users in the watershed. • Reduce-Reuse-Return: A truly sustainable integrated water management approach must simultaneously balance water reduce-reuse and return considerations. • Integrated options analysis: Ensuring we balance the trade-offs inherent in managing water and understanding water as one aspect of an interconnected ecosystem. Aligned with our purpose, we are committed to a culture of operational discipline where we manage our water use and reduce our impacts to protect the environment. We do this through compliance and monitoring programs, continuous improvement measures, collaboration, and investment in technology and innovation. Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 71 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change Water stewardship Compliance and monitoring programs Water Technology We comply with all water-related policy and regulations in the jurisdictions where we operate, as Development Centre well as the conditions in our project approvals21. Suncor monitors and assesses ecosystem impacts in the watersheds in which we operate on a local The Water Technology Development Centre level. In addition, through our enterprise risk management system and internal issues management (WTDC) is a first-of-its-kind demonstration processes we identify and help manage ecosystem, habitat and water-related risks and opportunities. site for companies to test water treatment For some operational sites there is more extensive monitoring in place. technologies at a commercial scale. The $140 million WTDC, attached to Suncor’s Firebag steam assisted gravity drainage (SAGD) central processing facility, began operations in August Oil Sands Monitoring Program 2019 and is testing a number of technologies to Suncor has been an active member of the Oil Sands Monitoring Program since improve environmental performance in water, 2012. The mandate of this program is to “provide comprehensive environmental land footprint, waste and GHG impacts. monitoring data and information to improve understanding of the long-term Convened under COSIA, Suncor and the cumulative effects of oil sands development.” As part of this program, monitoring WTDC partners, Canadian Natural, Husky and is conducted through approved workplans across multiple areas of focus including CNOOC International, are using the facility to air, water, wetlands and biodiversity. test multiple water technologies concurrently, enabling the partners to conduct more pilots than each could on their own, while sharing Continuous improvement the risks and costs. This will allow operators to Continuous improvement measures employ an economic incentive to use less water and allow us speed the development and implementation of to go beyond regulatory compliance. For instance, improvements in water efficiency allow Suncor new water treatment technologies, ultimately to consistently use less than half of our annual water licence allotment from the Athabasca shortening the current eight-year timeframe River. We optimize water reduction and recycling opportunities while trying to balance the net required to field test technologies and move environmental impact and associated costs of both. We also conduct risk assessments for each them to commercial application. asset to determine the highest-priority water issues. In May 2019, the WTDC was named JWN Energy Collaboration Excellence Awards champion in the Operational and Project Excellence – Oil Sands Category. Through discussions with Indigenous communities and stakeholders and our efforts to establish consultation agreements, we collaborate regularly with a variety of stakeholders on water-related Take a tour of the WTDC issues and opportunities. We engage with local communities during the development of our water management plans and also as projects progress. Through participation in the Athabasca River Basin initiative, a basin-wide collaborative effort with a variety of stakeholders, we were able to come together and establish a common understanding on the most significant issues and opportunities in the Athabasca River Basin. Suncor is also a member of a watershed planning and advisory council that evaluates changes to the Athabasca watershed over time and works to advise on potential policy and management actions. 21 We follow the Lower Athabasca Regional Plan (LARP) Surface Water Quality and Quantity Frameworks for monitoring, reclamation and closure and in the Regional Municipality of Wood Buffalo. Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 72 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change Water stewardship Technology and innovation Fresh water 15 16 17 18 19 When it comes to advancing water-related technology, we continue to invest in research and consumption development to increase efficiency (reduce and recycle) and optimize wastewater treatment. million m3 As Suncor works to advance water treatment technology and innovation, we are sharing best practices and lessons learned with our industry peers, through Canada’s Oil Sands Innovation Alliance (COSIA). By doing so, we are confident that together we can reduce industry’s footprint Oil Sands Base Plant 16.60 20.10 15.18 14.94 13.43 and better protect our valuable water resources. Oil Sands Fort Hills – – – 25.28 31.38 Oil Sands In Situ 1.67 1.33 1.17 1.05 1.25 Refining and Logistics 17.28 14.42 5.10 4.35 4.62 Water performance Biofuels 0.94 0.93 0.95 0.90 0.92 ■ Suncor total fresh 35.90 36.80 22.40 46.52 51.60 In 2019, we saw improved water efficiency at Base Plant; decreased production and water use at water consumption our in situ sites; increased water withdrawal and consumption at Fort Hills as production ramped up; and relatively consistent operations in Refining and Logistics. Fresh water 15 16 17 18 19 Our intake of fresh and non-fresh water for 2019 was 143 million cubic metres, similar to consumption 145 million cubic metres in 2018. The water intake is used for refining products, with the balance intensity m3/ m3 mainly being consumed in oil and gas production. Fresh water consumption Oil Sands Base Plant 0.87 1.31 0.80 0.89 0.71 In 2019, our absolute freshwater consumption increased by 10% and freshwater consumption Oil Sands Fort Hills – – – 3.35 3.30 intensity increased by approximately 7% compared to 2018 performance, as a result of Fort Hills Oil Sands In Situ 0.13 0.11 0.09 0.08 0.10 Refining and Logistics 0.63 0.53 0.18 0.16 0.17 building up on-site water inventory that will be reused and recycled. Incorporated into the Fort Hills Biofuels 3.68 3.68 3.79 3.67 3.83 design are plans to maintain a minimum water inventory required for a good recycle water quality. Suncor total fresh water 0.74 0.82 0.46 0.86 0.92 consumption intensity Water sources For additional information about this chart and its data, please refer to performance data notes (#8 – notes on water) River water Groundwater Precipitation Recycled wastewater Most of our water needs are met by the reuse and recycling of water within our operations. Cleaning Potable use Heating Cooling Refining Oil production Treated water that meets regulatory criteria is returned to the environment via rivers, watersheds and disposal wells. Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 73 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change Water stewardship Mining Oil Sands mining operators have not had Base Plant federal or provincial approval to release We continue to operate well below our annual water licence, withdrawing less water than we’re treated mine water since the beginning licensed to withdraw, even as our production levels increase. In 2019, Base Plant freshwater of operations. As a result, operators have withdrawal decreased by 10%. focused on efficiencies for recycling water At our oil sands Base Plant we continue to optimize wastewater recycle rates to decrease fresh to minimize water volumes on site. While water withdrawal from the Athabasca River. Approximately 92% of the water used by our mining recycling of mine water improves the and extraction operations in 2019 was recycled tailings water, which is up from 88% in 2018. utilization of water, over time the water quality deteriorates and the concentration Fort Hills of dissolved solids (salt and metal ions, Throughout 2018 and 2019, Fort Hills freshwater consumption and consumption intensity were including chlorides) increases. This situation relatively high due to ramp-up of production at the site and the need to build up initial water can lead to scaling and corrosion of inventory. In 2019, absolute freshwater consumption increased by 24%. As we better understand equipment, that can impact performance, our operational water use and efficiency at Fort Hills, we will continue to explore opportunities to requiring additional maintenance. Oil sands reduce water use and expect water withdrawals to decline in future years. mining companies are required by law to reclaim mine sites, which include land and In Situ water features in the final landscapes. The Firebag release of treated mine water is a key part of oil sands mine site reclamation and is Curtailment restrictions and site outages during 2019 for Firebag led to decreased freshwater necessary for progressive and long-term consumption. At our Firebag in situ site, approximately 96% of the water used is recycled. mine site reclamation. Firebag uses recycled wastewater from our oil sands upgrading and utilities operations, surface run-off water collected within the facility boundary and from groundwater wells. MacKay River In 2019, MacKay River was subject to curtailment restrictions and outages. The asset had also been offline for the month of December due to an unexpected incident. As a result, freshwater consumption decreased. MacKay River had a 99.6% water recycle rate, with the small amount of make-up water required coming from groundwater. Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 74 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change Water stewardship Refining and Logistics Commerce City refinery Our refineries use fresh water for heating and cooling. Our refineries In 2017, the Commerce City refinery upgraded the existing water use has remained relatively flat and there have been local wastewater treatment facility. It uses a unique technology called initiatives that have resulted in more efficient water use: membrane ultrafiltration to treat and filter the water. Our facility is one of the first in North America to use this technology in treating Edmonton refinery refinery wastewater streams. The Edmonton refinery uses water for heating and cooling. While Sarnia refinery the refinery’s water use over time has remained relatively flat, we are always looking for ways to limit the amount of water we use, The Sarnia refinery uses water from the St. Clair River as part of our onincluding the amount of fresh water directly withdrawn from the site cooling process. In an effort to reduce the impact of microbiological North Saskatchewan River. In 2019, approximately 43% of the total corrosion, we chlorinate incoming water. We then have a process to water used was from recycled wastewater supplied from the Gold Bar de-chlorinate the water before it returns to the river. We focus on water Wastewater Treatment Plant. quality and quantity that meets all regulatory requirements. Montreal refinery Exploration and Production Since 2014, Suncor’s Montreal refinery has processed increasing volumes In our East Coast Canada operations, water is either produced offshore of crudes from Western Canada. In 2017, Suncor partnered with Suez through desalination, or is transferred via vessel from St. John’s, Water Technologies and Solutions and performed extensive testing and N.L. On an annual basis, a cross-functional East Coast team reviews analysis to determine the best options for process improvement in the the produced water annual performance, and evaluates options for water treatment plant. Their work led to more stable performance of the chemical minimization and substitution where feasible. This work helps to water treatment system with no environmental exceedances, resulting in ensure effective operation of the produced water system, the floating higher quality water returned. production storage and offloading (FPSO) vessel and reservoir integrity. Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 75 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change Tailings management Suncor is working to reduce the size of our environmental footprint. Tailings reclamation is a story of ongoing collaboration, learning and innovation. Permanent aquatic storage structure Built upon the processes currently used in our TRO™ tailings management approach, Suncor has developed PASS, a fluid tailings treatment process to significantly increase the amount of fluid tailings we can treat in a more sustainable manner. PASS combines the TRO™ process with the addition of a coagulant to improve the quality of the water expressed from the treated fluid tailings. The treatment process allows us to rapidly dewater the fluid tailings as the clay particles Fluid tailings are the focus of our tailings technology improvements. Although sand separates adhere to the flocculant, safely expressing most quickly from the tailings, smaller particles of clay and silt remain in suspension and form fluid of the trapped water and providing an effective tailings, which in the past could take decades to separate. means for creating a lake that achieves our closure plan, and doing so in an accelerated timeline. Greater than 90% of the tailings form coarse tailings deposits that are used to backfill the mine and for construction purposes (e.g. tailings dams) and required no treatment before reclamation. To validate this closure concept, we have Less than 10% of what remains is fluid tailings that are treated to enable future reclamation into constructed a demonstration pit lake, now called either terrestrial or aquatic features of a healthy closure landscape. Finding ways to treat fluid Lake Miwasin (meaning “nice/beautiful” in Cree), tailings quickly and cost-effectively is critical to improving our overall reclamation performance. that contains PASS-treated fluid tailings and has an aquatic cover established in 2018. We plan Suncor is an industry leader in tailings management. Suncor manages tailings stability risk to monitor and adaptively manage the project through its tailings facility management system (TFMS). TFMS is a well-established process which for the next 15 years. Pit lakes are considered a is a supporting element of Suncor’s overall Operational Excellence Management System (OEMS). mining industry global best practice, and there Suncor’s tailings management system emphasizes: are a number of pit lakes in Alberta created • responsible corporate accountability for tailings from former coal mine pits that are now used for recreational fishing and swimming. • effective operations integrity and governance • robust dam safety management. Lake Miwasin was named by an Indigenous student in Fort McMurray as part of a Over the past several years, our holistic TRO™ tailings management approach and the naming contest. implementation of permanent aquatic storage structure (PASS) treatment process have allowed us to reduce our total fluid tailings inventory at Base Plant. In addition, we have reduced the total number of active tailings ponds by converting one to a fluid tailings treatment area, started the drainage of a second, and made a third trafficable using our coke capping technology. In 2019, PASS treated more than 25 million cubic metres of fluid tailings, a new annual treatment record. This represents 2.3 times the 2019 volume of fluid tailings produced. This has been a key reason why Base Plant’s untreated fluid tailings inventory is shrinking. The treatment is progressing well and the high-quality water demonstrates we are on track to support the accelerated reclamation timelines we predicted before implementation in 2018. ™ Trademark of Suncor Energy Inc. Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 76 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change Tailings management Regulatory requirements Coke capping technology Suncor has enhanced its management plans and tailings management approach to meet the requirements of the Tailings Management Framework (TMF), developed by Alberta Environment and Parks under the Lower Athabasca Regional Plan and implemented in 2015. In 2015 and 2016, Suncor was invited to work with Indigenous communities, the Alberta Energy Regulator (AER) and other stakeholders to support the development of the Fluid Tailings Management for Oil Sands Mining Projects (Directive 085). To meet the new requirements, Suncor received approval in 2017 to add treatment capacity to our operations at Base Plant. Meanwhile, Fort Hills received approval in 2019. Both updated plans are based on what we’ve learned through our implementation of TRO™ and from members of Canada’s Oil Sands Innovation Alliance (COSIA). In 2017, the AER Directive 085 was finalized. This regulation includes tailings management plan application and tailings performance reporting requirements aligned with the government’s Tailings Management Framework. Thanks to breakthroughs that have come from research and development, Suncor continues to Dam safety and integrity make progress in tailings management. We take tailings dam safety very seriously and have been implementing a robust dam safety Following the surface reclamation of Pond 1 program since we began operations in the Athabasca oil sands in the late 1960s. Our dam safety (now known as Wapisiw Lookout) in 2010, program protects the integrity of tailings dam structures through extensive checks and balances we began creating a trafficable surface on for design, construction and monitoring, including a series of internal and external reviews. Pond 5, with a reclamation technique called There are stringent requirements governing tailings and dam safety in Canada. Alberta regulators coke capping. The project was completed in released the new Dam and Canal Safety Directive in 2018 that establishes requirements for 2017, more than two years ahead of what was industry-leading practices for dam safety management. planned, thanks to teamwork and dedication. Suncor’s tailings management and dam safety practices have continuously improved with the The coke capping technology we developed ongoing development of geotechnical engineering practices and industry-leading tailings and and commercially deployed at Pond 5 involves dam safety guidelines and regulations. We employ specialized experienced engineers, referred placing a geofabric/geogrid on a tailings pond to as geotechnical engineers of record, for each tailings facility and/or dam structure. These and then placing petroleum coke (a byproduct individuals are qualified to lead the design work of each area, and work in collaboration with of upgraded bitumen) overtop to create a solid internationally experienced design consultants, referred to as geotechnical designers of record. surface that supports heavy equipment. Giant straws, called vertical strip drains, are added to In addition, an independent external review board called the Mine Development and Reclamation dewater the fluid tailings. In the future, we will Review Board reviews and critiques ongoing design, construction and operation of our tailings spread overburden or sand over the coke to facilities several times a year. allow for the placement of topsoil and vegetation Additional information is available in Suncor’s response to the Investor Mining and Tailings Safety (trees and shrubs). This is the first full-scale soft Initiative. Suncor has disclosed an extensive data table on our tailings facilities including location, tailings cap of its kind in the industry. dimensions, and status. An interpretation document has also been provided for additional context. Engagement Suncor is committed to the responsible development of oil sands resources, addressing tailings treatment, and engaging Indigenous communities and stakeholders. In 2019, Suncor used several opportunities to gather feedback from stakeholders on the approach to tailings management. One of these opportunities was the Suncor Sharing Session on Tailings with local community members to share information on Base Plant and Fort Hills tailings performance. The objective Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 77 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change Tailings management of the sharing session was to share information on tailings results and with this amount of treatment, the total inventories are now and plans, and to provide an opportunity for Suncor staff to gather reducing so that Base Plant is ahead of regulatory requirements. Since feedback and input from Indigenous community members. Suncor is 2018, fluid tailings treatment capacity has increased by commercially following up on this feedback and will work to incorporate suggestions implementing our PASS fluid tailings treatment process. This has into future engagement plans. We continue to enhance how allowed for a 5% reduction in untreated fluid tailings inventory as information about our tailings operations is shared. of the end of 2019 at Base Plant operations. Base Plant currently has about 263 million cubic metres of fluid tailings. As the mining industry reviews and improves leading practices for tailings management, Suncor will continue to maintain the highest Suncor is working to reduce the number of active tailings ponds. We standards and play an active role in collaborating with industry partners, have made progress over the last 10 years. Even with the start of a new communities, investors and other stakeholders. mining operation (Fort Hills), total number of active tailings facilities has been reduced between 2009 and 2019 with one being surface Fluid tailings management reclaimed and three more advancing to closure. As our mining operations have expanded, the volume of fluid tailings Moving forward, we will work toward our strategic priority of continuing has increased. However, with the implementation of TRO™ in 2010, to manage our tailings across their life cycle in a safe and environmentally fluid tailings volumes at site remained steady and have now begun to responsible way. In the next few years, another tailings pond will be reduce with the implementation of our PASS technology. removed from Base Plant operations because of our PASS technology. From 2015 to 2019, Base Plant alone has treated more than 100 million cubic metres of fluid tailings. Fluid tailings inventories peaked in 2010 Base plant tailings treatment profile Tailings ponds million m3 2009 2019 1000 Active 8 6 800 Inactive 1 1 600 Advancing to closure 1 3 400 Surface reclaimed 0 1 (tr ea D tm ec en t > line For additional information about this chart and its data, please 200 pro refer to performance data notes (#10 – notes on tailings) du cti on ) 0 1968 1973 1978 1983 1988 1993 1998 2003 2008 2013 2018 2023 2028 2033 2038 2043 PASS treatment Other treatments ■ Tailings inventory cumulative Mm3 cumulative Mm3 total Mm3 For additional information about this chart and its data, please refer to performance data notes (#10 – notes on tailings) Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 78 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change Land and reclamation Energy development disturbs land – there is no way around it. We help mitigate this by developing detailed reclamation plans that consider the impacts of our operations along with learnings from local Indigenous Peoples and community stakeholders before any kind of disturbance takes place. Suncor works on three primary areas to reduce the size and duration of our footprint, to facilitate the return of biodiversity and to sustain the function of nearby natural ecosystems in the boreal region: Naturally occurring reclaimed wetlands • Reducing the impact of our operations on land resources through scientific research and best management practices, while also working with neighbouring companies to reduce the cumulative effects of development through collaborative effort to reduce our footprint. • Accelerating the pace of reclamation of disturbed lands by taking advantage of opportunities for progressive reclamation. • Working internally, with industry peers and through multi-stakeholder organizations on initiatives to conserve and reclaim habitat for birds, mammals, fish and other species. End land use, how the land will be used at closure, is an important consideration throughout the life cycle of the project, from planning through reclamation. Management approach Most of the reclamation at Suncor’s Base Plant Mining completed so far has targeted upland forest types Before developing a new mine, life-of-mine closure plans are developed that identify how and found locally in the Athabasca oil sands region. when the disturbed areas will be reclaimed. These plans are updated regularly throughout the life Over time, as reclamation landforms have naturally settled, wetlands have formed in low lying areas. of the project. This allows project changes and updates to technology to be integrated into the These are called opportunistic wetlands. reclamation and closure plan, supporting the ultimate return of the land to self-sustaining boreal forest ecosystem. • Preliminary data suggests that more than 10% of our reclaimed uplands may have naturally The Alberta Energy Regulator (AER) must authorize reclamation and closure plans for all new converted to either temporary, seasonal or projects and authorizes updated plans as they are developed.22 permanent wetlands. • Some of these wetlands have been in-fill planted In situ with wetland-specific tree and shrub species to In situ oil sands operators are required to complete a project-level conservation, reclamation enhance their complexity and maturity. and closure plan for the AER’s review and authorization, and to update it every five years. • Suncor has initiated an assessment of the This integrated approach to planning and execution provides a project-level plan for achieving number, extent, quality, and type of these equivalent land capability and long-term, sustainable environmental outcomes after closure.23 opportunistic wetlands on our reclaimed lands. Once the opportunistic wetlands are classified as per the Alberta Wetland Classification System, using a combination of remote sensing and field verification, they will be incorporated into Suncor’s reclamation tracking and monitoring programs. Ultimately, the 22 As per Alberta regulations (SED 003), oil sands mine facilities report on land disturbed and reclaimed over time. These regulations specify biodiversity, vegetation, and soil conservation measures to support effective progressive and final presence of these reclaimed wetlands will result in a reclamation. For a new project, there is a lag time of years between initial development and when land reclamation can final reclaimed landscape which consists of a mosaic begin. As projects proceed there are more opportunities to reclaim disturbed areas when they are no longer required for operations, through progressive reclamation; this includes mine and tailings areas, roads, plant facilities and buildings, well of uplands interspersed with wetlands, very similar to pads, borrow pits and pipelines. what existed before disturbance. 23 Following the Alberta regulations (SED 001), in situ facilities report on land disturbed and reclaimed over time. Current reclamation opportunities at in situ operations are primarily borrow pits – the source of the clay fill used for the construction of wellpads, roads and central processing facilities. Reclaimed borrow pits will provide a matrix of uplands, wetlands and lakes, reflective of the local boreal forest. Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 79 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change Land and reclamation Reclamation performance Reclamation and disturbance tracking – Mining cumulative hectares Mining Since Suncor began operations at Base Plant in 1967, the project has disturbed 22,245 25,000 cumulative hectares (ha) of land in the Athabasca oil sands region. As of 2019, we have cumulatively reclaimed approximately 10.8% of the total land disturbance, including 2,352 20,000 hectares of terrestrial reclamation and 48 hectares of wetland and aquatic reclamation. 15,000 We planted approximately 365,000 tree and shrub seedlings in reclamation areas at Base Plant in 2019, bringing the total cumulative seedlings planted to close to 8.9 million. This is approximately 10,000 a 7% increase from 2018. 5,000 Fort Hills officially began production in 2018. As new mines are developed, the disturbance footprint increases significantly; however, Suncor continually looks for opportunities to minimize 0 our footprint and progressively reclaim areas no longer required for production. Even though Fort Base Plant Fort Hills Hills is newly in production, reclamation activities have already begun. ■ Temporary reclamation (terrestrial) ■ Permanent reclamation As of 2019, Fort Hills had an additional 84 hectares (ha) of temporary24 reclaimed land bringing ■ Soils placed (terrestrial; wetlands & aquatics) the cumulative total of temporary and permanent reclaimed land to 360 ha. ■ Ready for reclamation: no longer used for mine or plant purposes ■ Disturbed: used for mine or plant purposes In situ ■ Cleared In 2019, Suncor compiled a list of the reclamation certificates issued for old roads and observation wells no longer required to support the Firebag and MacKay River in situ operations. Reclamation and disturbance tracking – In situ Approximately 15 hectares of land has met the requirements for permanent reclamation and has cumulative hectares been certified and returned to the Government of Alberta. During the 2019 reclamation work, Suncor also planted more than 51,000 trees and shrubs between the two sites. By planting trees 1,600 and shrubs reflective of the local area, it is expected that a matrix of upland, wetland and deep 1,400 water ecosystems will establish and support various wildlife over time. 1,200 1,000 800 600 400 200 0 Firebag MacKay River ■ Temporary reclamation (terrestrial) ■ Permanent reclamation ■ Soils placed (terrestrial; wetlands & aquatics) ■ Ready for reclamation: no longer used to support the project ■ Disturbed: under construction, active or inactive operation ■ Cleared: under construction, active or inactive operation For additional information about this chart and its data, please refer to performance data notes (#10 – notes on land disturbance and reclamation). 24 Land reclaimed, either permanently or temporarily is land no longer being used for mine, plant, or in situ production purposes. This value is a subset of the total active footprint. Reclamation is presented as a cumulative number;therefore, the total number of hectares reported from year to year may increase depending on whether reclamation has occurred or whether re-disturbance of previously reclaimed areas was required. Permanently reclaimed lands have met the authorized plans for soil placement and re-vegetation but have not been certified by the Alberta Energy Regulator. Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 80 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change Biodiversity Suncor is committed to preserving and promoting biodiversity in all areas where we work. Our commitment drives the conservation of high-value areas and habitats and reclamation of the sites we disturb. Suncor’s operations are located in diverse landscapes, home to Approved wildlife mitigation and monitoring programs are in place for ecosystems comprising a variety of plants and animals. In the case our oil sands operations; biodiversity conservation is inherent in our of boreal woodland caribou, complex combinations of natural and reclamation practices. While biodiversity objectives are outlined in our human-caused factors have had an effect by creating landscape closure plans, to protect both our people and wildlife that use our sites changes and indirectly increasing predation, resulting in a decline in and nearby associated areas, our internal wildlife standard describes caribou populations. As an operator in the boreal forest, Suncor has a the responsibilities of all employees and contractors working on Suncor role to play in contributing to caribou recovery and conservation while sites within the Regional Municipality of Wood Buffalo. mitigating our impacts on them. We reduce the impact of our operations and promote accelerated Our reclamation planning and execution efforts focus on improving reclamation through scientific research and best management practices. the landscape biodiversity outcomes so we can return to the natural In collaboration with our industry peers, stakeholders and regulatory diversity of plants and animals at the end of an operating area’s life. agencies, we work with organizations such as the Alberta Biodiversity Guided by the mitigation hierarchy, a tool which aims to help manage Monitoring Institute (ABMI), the Canada-Alberta Oil Sands Monitoring biodiversity risk, we seek to avoid, minimize, restore and/or offset Program and Canada’s Oil Sands Innovation Alliance (COSIA) to: impacts to biodiversity from our operations. • mitigate and monitor the impacts of our operations • Our land use and management planning processes work to identify • reduce the cumulative effects of industrial development where disturbances can be avoided throughout our projects. • address regional biodiversity risk. • Disturbances are minimized to the extent possible while considering multiple factors, including safety, operation and the environment. As a member of the COSIA Regional Industry Caribou Collaboration, we work across tenure and lease boundaries with academia, the • We work internally and with industry peers and multi-stakeholder Government of Alberta and the ABMI Caribou Monitoring Unit to organizations on initiatives to conserve and restore habitat for co-ordinate restoration in priority areas, and to find new ways improve birds, mammals, fish and other species, including species at risk how we understand biodiversity and restore habitat throughout such as caribou. northeast Alberta. These efforts all play a role in caribou recovery. Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 81 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change Biodiversity Land conservation Suncor has partnered with Alberta Conservation Association (ACA) Boreal Habitat Conservation Initiative (BCHI) since 2002. This award-winning initiative helps protect intact boreal forest and wetlands, ensuring the larger boreal forest ecosystem remains undisturbed and biodiversity is preserved. Working with ACA, Suncor has secured more than 4,000 hectares of ecologically sensitive land across 43 different conservation sites. The BCHI proves win-win scenarios are possible: good for business, good for society, and good for biodiversity. By helping to protect intact boreal forest and wetlands, it is an important example of our commitment to sustainability leadership. ACA – Suncor Boreal Habitat Conservation Initiative (2003-2019) Honouring a colleague through conservation 700.0 4,500.0 In May 2019, the Alberta Conservation 4,000.0 600.0 Association (ACA) dedicated a 125 hectare 3,500.0 500.0 parcel of land in memory of a beloved 3,000.0 Suncor colleague, Peter MacConnachie 400.0 2,500.0 who passed away in 2017. A self-professed 300.0 2,000.0 fan of the boreal forest, Peter combined 1,500.0 his work in sustainability with a love of 200.0 1,000.0 the outdoors. Through his participation 100.0 500.0 in the Suncor Boreal Habitat Conservation 0.0 0.0 Initiative, ecologically-sensitive areas of 2003 2004 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2026 2018 2019 the boreal forest have been conserved in partnership with ACA and the Alberta Fish ■ Area (ha) Cumulative (ha) and Game Association. The dedication marked an important Evaluation criteria were developed between Suncor and ACA to enable the selection of habitat conservation milestone in the 15-year partnership the project sites that reasonably replicate the lands being disturbed by the footprint of Suncor’s oil sands operations. While it is recognized that an exact match is not possible, priority is placed on those lands that Suncor Energy Foundation and Suncor have high ecological value, which help create biological connectivity with existing protected areas and that have had with the ACA, reflected in the support sensitive or endangered species. Approved areas that meet the evaluation criteria are called focus site plaque: areas. Through the BCHI, habitat is secured by purchase of private lands located within these approved focus areas, outside of Suncor’s operations, by ACA often in partnership with other conservation agencies. “Dedicated in his memory, may the MacConnachie Conservation Area exist not just as a place on the map but also serve as a destination to enjoy Alberta’s boreal forest that Peter so appreciated and helped to conserve.” Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 82 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change Biodiversity Biodiversity monitoring Suncor monitors biodiversity in and around our oil sands in situ and mining operations and reclaimed sites as per our regulatory commitments and in support of broader regional initiatives. In 2019, cameras at reclaimed sites in northern Alberta recorded more than 6,100 sightings of 13 wildlife species. In the same reclaimed areas, acoustic recording units recorded seven species of bats, and wildlife surveys identified more than 59 species of birds and 14 species of small mammals. The wildlife program at MacKay River, conducted since 2001, was designed to monitor the effects of our operations on wildlife and show how wildlife is living in reclaimed sites and in the vicinity of our facilities. Remote cameras have been taking amazing photos of our wildlife, demonstrating that wildlife and human operations can coexist. This confirms that Suncor’s current measures are effectively protecting our wildlife. Roberto Torres environmental advisor, MacKay River Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 83 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change We work hard to build and maintain relationships with local communities, Indigenous Peoples and stakeholders, and meaningfully consider their issues and concerns about our › Community investment operations and the effects of proposed development. Creating › Indigenous relations vibrant communities requires developing trust, and collaborative › Social goal and proactive relationships. › Strengthening relationships › Partnering with Indigenous youth › Partnering with Indigenous Communities businesses and communities › Improving Indigenous workforce development $33 million contributed to Canadian and international charitable and non-profit organizations by Suncor and SEF 96,067 volunteer hours by Suncor employees in their local communities $836 million spent with Indigenous businesses and suppliers 50% increase in participation with Indigenous Mentorship Suncor Program Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 84 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change Community investment Suncor’s Community Investment (CI) team and the Suncor Energy Foundation (SEF) embody Suncor’s purpose of caring for each other and the earth by connecting business and community strengths to make a positive difference in society. Through partnership and relationship with those who are courageously seeking solutions, we help spark change and propel progress for generations ahead. We believe we have the opportunity – and responsibility – to help build • Co-create innovative solutions that address our shared challenges a better future. Since Suncor began operations in the oil sands more and opportunities and allow us to create the conditions for success than 50 years ago, this commitment has been demonstrated in our and action. work with communities across our operations, through the efforts of • Leverage the interests, strengths and capabilities of our employees our employees, and with the creation of SEF in 1998. to contribute to their community and help create solutions to We believe in partnering and building relationships for the long term. complex issues. These relationships must be across multiple sectors, as no one type of • Support communities near our operations to address their unique and organization can solve today’s complex challenges. specific needs that align with community priorities and business needs. Relating to these objectives, our strategy has three pillars: Our community investment strategy • Strategic funding priorities: Investing in societal change through CI and SEF invest in society while seeking solutions and benefits for others. others within three areas: Indigenous Peoples, energy future, and We believe in the capacity of all people to create solutions to complex community resilience. challenges, and that combining diverse perspectives can create change. • Community presence: Investing in local operating communities and Our strategic objectives are: employee engagement through SunCares. • Support communities to adapt and flourish when change requires • Social innovation capacity: Investing in societal change through new skills, mindsets, capabilities and approaches. SEFand CI-led programs and activities. • Amplify youth and community leadership so they are prepared to guide and influence the future. Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 85 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change Community investment Ashoka Canada Suncor & SEF contributed $33M in In 2018, Suncor and the Suncor Energy value to more than 1,950 charitable & Foundation (SEF) entered into partnership non-profit organizations across Canada with Ashoka Canada and began working and internationally. toward mutual learning for both of our organizations. Ashoka Canada supports young leaders to More than $4.9M invested develop the mindset and capacity to be the $15.1M contributed to by Suncor & SEF towards changemakers the future needs. Part of the Canadian charitable the goal of learning from organizations by SEF donation provided by SEF supports Ashoka and with Indigenous Peoples Canada’s work to adapt their processes based on Indigenous ways of knowing and doing, something we also continue to SunCares: how our employees showed up in community explore and learn about within Suncor. 96,067 hours volunteered The focus of the partnership is to: 29% of employees by Suncor employees in • drive positive social and environmental participated company-wide their local communities change with a priority of amplifying innovations that support Indigenous 1,501 community Over $5.8M contributed to communities organizations supported communities through SunCares • build capacity, empathy and resilience among Indigenous and non-Indigenous youth of Canada to become change leaders • build awareness and commitment to Strategic funding priorities social innovation and changemaking as a sustainable force for positive change Community Investment and the Suncor Energy Foundation have a long history of investing in societal change and communities through donations to external partners. We focus these Since the partnership began, we continue investments in three priority areas: to strengthen our relationship, learn from • Indigenous Peoples – Learn from and with Indigenous Peoples to accelerate a reconciliation one another, and connect on new initiatives mindset, youth engagement and Indigenous-led pathways to success such as Ashoka U, a program focused on changemaking within post-secondary • Community resilience – Enable communities to maximize opportunities and resources to adapt campuses around the world. and thrive through change • Energy future – We participate in energy system transition by combining the strengths of Suncor and community to seek solutions that prepare us for today and the future. Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 86 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change Community investment Community presence CI and SEF invest in local communities where Suncor has operations and offer employee SunCares Changemakers engagement opportunities through the SunCares program. In 2019, as part of our SunCares employee program, we launched SunCares SunCares inspires employees to contribute to communities and support the causes that Changemakers to recognize and celebrate are important to them – through volunteering, donation matching, SunCares Community employees who are having a positive Giving Networks and recognition programs such as SunCares Changemakers. impact in community. Five Suncor employees are selected through an annual Social innovation capacity nomination and internal committee CI and SEF describe social innovation as an initiative, product, or process that challenges review process, and identified as SunCares and/or changes the routines, resources, and beliefs of society. As a part of our strategy, Changemakers. Changemakers are then we aim to build capacity for social innovation – including within Suncor. By considering each given the opportunity to identify a and working with whole systems, and by using the tools and processes of social community organization of their choice to innovation to design and deliver programs, there is opportunity to transform ourselves, receive a one-time gift of $20,000. our organizations, and ultimately, society. Community Foundations of Canada In November 2019, SEF confirmed a new three-year partnership with Community Foundations of Canada (CFC) to help expand our knowledge and understanding in social finance under the pillar of social innovation. Social finance is an investment that has a positive social, cultural or environmental impact and also generates return for investors. Types of social finance can vary, and can include loans and investments – and they all make a positive difference. Suncor and SEF have previously worked with CFC on initiatives such as the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals and the setup of a community foundation in the Regional Municipality of Wood Buffalo. With this new partnership, CFC is expected to be able to expand their pilot project work and share their learnings with other foundations. Along the way, Suncor and SEF aim to learn more about social finance by participating in CFC’s work with the goal of advancing new, community-led, multi-sector approaches to raising money and deploying it where needed to support social good. Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 87 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change Indigenous relations Partnering with Indigenous communities is foundational to successful energy development. We engage to build and maintain relationships with Indigenous communities on the principles of respect and reciprocity. We will not presume to where we operate by listening to concerns about our operations and know what communities need or want. To create mutually beneficial the effects of proposed development. This includes working together to partnerships and outcomes, we look to external influencers and mitigate potential social and environmental impacts and ensuring local Indigenous thought leaders to regularly calibrate where we are and communities share in the benefits of energy development. where we need to go. We’re learning from traditional Indigenous ways and are evolving our business practices to incorporate and honour Our approach this. We’re also working to build internal capability that allows us to Guided by our purpose and policies, we work to maintain mutually understand where existing processes and structures may unintentionally beneficial relationships. We are committed to authentic, meaningful limit Indigenous inclusion. relationships with stakeholders and Indigenous Peoples and communities in Canada. Recognizing that there is work to do, we are Results updating our Indigenous Relations policy. We believe that partnering and learning with Indigenous Peoples is a way of improving environmental, economic and social outcomes. Beyond commitments outlined in the policies, we also have One way we measure the effectiveness of our efforts is through the agreements with Indigenous communities near our operations. These Canadian Council for Aboriginal Business (CCAB) Progressive Aboriginal agreements address how we work together on a range of matters Relations (PAR) program. PAR is Canada’s only certification program from project consultation to realizing the benefits of commercial and focused on best practices in Aboriginal relations. In 2017, Suncor business opportunities, as well as supporting skills/employment and became certified at a gold level; our renewal application was submitted training programs. for review in April 2020. Responsibilities and commitments The certification process includes external assessment of an All Suncor employees, contractors and managers as well as our joint organization’s performance in four key areas: employment, business venture partnerships are responsible for applying these policies. Suncor’s development, leadership actions and community engagement. chief executive officer is accountable to the Board of Directors for ensuring that Suncor’s Stakeholder Relations and Canadian Indigenous Relations policies are implemented. Our Board of Directors has included Indigenous representation since 2000. The Progressive Aboriginal Relations Relationships certification process is a chance for us to We are committed to learn about our shared history and mutually seek collaboration and partnerships with Indigenous Peoples. To get us there, reflect on our strengths and look for areas we’ve learned that we must build an inclusive workplace and develop of improvement. We are continuing to the skills to appropriately engage. Increasing the awareness of our evolve our partnerships with Indigenous staff to Indigenous cultures, history and rights and having Indigenous communities and we are learning about views reflected in the composition of Suncor staff and policies is vital. new ways of knowing and being. This includes seeking to apply Indigenous knowledge in planning, operations, reclamation and monitoring activity. Journeys is one of Suncor’s Sheila Innes general manager, Indigenous and community relations employee networks that supports Indigenous inclusion at Suncor. We understand that we need to get to know communities first by listening and seeking to develop relationships – relationships based Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 88 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change Social goal We are on a journey to change the way we think and act to increase the participation of Indigenous Peoples in energy development. Our social goal is a declaration of our intent to do things differently business spend. However, the feedback has also indicated we need to – to choose a new path that focuses on strengthening relationships consider the impact of these metrics and ensure it is leading to cultural with Indigenous Peoples and communities starting within Suncor. The shifts and behavioural changes within Suncor. goal outlines four areas to focus on through 2025 and beyond, where We are now reflecting on the feedback to gain a better understanding we can work together to advance greater participation of Indigenous of new opportunities and whether we are truly changing the way we Peoples and communities in energy development. think and act. Shifting culture, behaviour and systems takes time. Since announcing One opportunity we are focusing on is the use of storytelling, in our social goal in 2016, we have seen outstanding results in many addition to metrics. Storytelling is a traditional practice in some areas of Suncor. In 2019, we realized the need to pause and reflect Indigenous cultures that sustains and validates experiences, values and on activities and learnings related to the social goal. We then began beliefs by spoken word. a renewal process, which included a detailed review. We engaged employees, Indigenous organizations and thought leaders via surveys, Informal conversations and feedback play an important role in our facilitated focus groups, and conducted individual interviews. Through understanding of what is working and what is not for Indigenous this engagement, we received feedback that we have progressed in people. Some of this feedback comes from Indigenous employees, setting and achieving quantitative metrics such as increased Indigenous Indigenous suppliers and our Indigenous youth engagement. Strengthening relationships Social goal Partnering Partnering Partnering Partnering with with with with Indigenous Indigenous Changing the way Indigenous Indigenous youth youth we think and act businesses businesses to increase the participation of Indigenous Peoples in energy development Improving Indigenous workforce development Permission to use this Blackfoot concept of the Medicine Wheel was granted by Elder Casey Eagle Speaker Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 89 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change Strengthening relationships We can do more to learn about the history and experiences of Indigenous Peoples, so we can better understand one another and change the way we think and act. Journeys Our Journeys employee inclusion network plays an important and active role supporting Indigenous employees to feel a sense of belonging within the company, as well as strengthening Indigenous cultural awareness, relationships and employee personal development. The network has four circles: Leadership, Cultural Awareness, Community Impact, and Engagement. Within each circle, volunteers organize events and lunch and learns. The network also organizes: • a program for ambassadors to participate in outreach activities such as recruitment events and mentorship of Indigenous summer students • Indigenous Insights, which can be shared in Suncor meetings • Journeys newsletters Strengthening relationships is a priority for Suncor, and we have designed many supporting initiatives to enable our employees along the • events such as Indigenous Peoples Day and Orange Shirt Day way. We’re focusing on four key areas: (with activities across the country). • increasing awareness In 2019, Journeys held its first annual gathering to connect and build relationships, celebrate the success of the network, and plan • building understanding 2020 programs and events that foster inclusion. • shifting attitudes The network currently has more than 800 Indigenous and non• changing behaviours. Indigenous members. Journeys is viewed as a key stakeholder to By the end of 2019, 8,779 Canadian employees had completed the seek input from, for the design of Indigenous-related initiatives. web-based training and 1,460 Canadian employees had completed classroom training. We also offer our web-based training to the public. In addition to training, our employees have embraced various learning and cultural opportunities. These opportunities include the creation of a virtual Indigenous Learning Space on our company intranet and the introduction of the KAIROS Blanket Exercise at Suncor work sites. The advancements in Indigenous inclusion and In 2019, working with our Calgary office building owner/operator, we the fostering of positive change within Suncor were pleased to establish procedures to enable smudging for meetings culture that I have seen come through the and special events at the Suncor Energy Centre. Journeys network has been nothing short of We’ve also seen growth in various employee programs. Our Indigenous amazing. I am very proud to be a part of that Student Program has grown from 17 participants in 2017 to 80 in and look forward to our future endeavours, 2019, with placements in many areas of our operations including Wood Buffalo, Edmonton, Calgary and St. John’s. Our Indigenous Mentorship within Suncor and beyond. Program has increased by 50% since 2018 and Journeys, an employee Amanda Robert inclusion network, has evolved with new members and programs. maintenance planner, Fort Hills Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 90 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change Partnering with Indigenous youth We support the development of Indigenous youth leadership potential through meaningful connections within and outside of Suncor. The Indigenous Youth Advisory Council is an incubator for leadership and an opportunity for meaningful engagement between Canada’s largest energy company and Indigenous Youth. We witnessed an empowering exchange when we were seated in a boardroom of experts that were eager to answer our questions and Our partners and youth have taught us that organizations and programs rooted in culture and genuinely wanted to understand reconciliation lead to pride in self and culture, and we’re particularly focused on building stronger our perspectives. connections with Indigenous youth. Indigenous Youth Advisory Council members The Indigenous Youth Advisory Council (IYAC) was established in 2019 following many years of discussions with several young Indigenous leaders, including those who had attended Suncor Energy Foundation (SEF) Gatherings and participants from the Indigenous Student Program. The IYAC is an opportunity for the SEF board, our Indigenous and Community Relations team and various senior leaders and Indigenous youth to share, listen, reflect and act on issues of mutual interest that are impacting communities and the lives of Indigenous youth. Aligned with our social goal, it also supports young Indigenous leaders in developing their leadership potential while providing opportunities to participate in the energy system. The key objective of IYAC is to act as an advisory group to SEF and Suncor to: • support and inspire Suncor to fulfill its purpose • advise SEF on strategic areas of focus and future direction • support and provide advice to our Indigenous Relations VP Forum. Other objectives of IYAC include: • discussing and bringing forward Indigenous youth and community issues • promoting a transfer of knowledge between Indigenous youth, Elders, SEF and Suncor while building trust, rapport and strengthening relationships • strengthening Elder and youth relationships to support continued cultural learning and connection to the community. As the relationship between IYAC members, SEF and Suncor evolves, we will revisit these objectives on an ongoing basis. Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 91 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change Partnering with Indigenous businesses and communities We are increasing revenues to Indigenous businesses and communities through mutually beneficial marketing arrangements and procurement of materials and services. Siksika Nation Petro-Canada™ electric vehicle charger station ribbon cutting Relationships are essential to advancing business opportunities. Meaningful participation requires the ability to understand each other’s motivations, strengths and limitations. It can also require the willingness to have challenging conversations in an authentic and respectful way. Celebration Working with Indigenous businesses is essential to creating these partnerships, and it is one of Indigenous thing we can do to contribute to economic reconciliation with Indigenous Canadians. This is Business Partners aligned to the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples and the Truth and In 2019, our Independent Retail group Reconciliation Commission’s Call to Action for corporate Canada. held a feedback session just ahead of Suncor’s social goal includes a business development pillar to “increase spend with Indigenous the Indspire25 event in Calgary called suppliers.” For the procurement of materials and services, there is a target of $600M by 2025 Celebration of Indigenous Business Partners. which was achieved seven years early. In 2018, we spent $725 million and in 2019, we spent This was a summit to gather Indigenous $836 million with Indigenous businesses and suppliers. business partners together, celebrate successes, recognize achievements, As of 2019, we have 48 Petro-Canada™ retail and wholesale marketing arrangements with share experiences on how having a Indigenous communities across the country, surpassing the 2025 target of 40 we had Petro-Canada™ site has influenced their originally set. communities and most importantly, listen In 2018, Suncor’s president and CEO Mark Little also stepped forward to co-chair the Canadian to feedback on how we can improve. Council for Aboriginal Business’s national Aboriginal Procurement Champions program. The effort is designed to challenge companies to engage more Indigenous businesses in their supply chains. 25 Indspire is a national Indigenous registered charity that invests in the education of Indigenous people for the long-term benefit of these individuals, their families and communities, and Canada. Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 92 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change Improving Indigenous workforce development We are committed to an inclusive and diverse work environment where everyone feels valued and respected. We believe this kind of work environment will help us to attract, Indigenous Student Program retain and develop Indigenous employees. Creating an inclusive and Our Indigenous Student Program creates a talent pool and provides respectful environment is a leadership imperative at Suncor, supported Indigenous post-secondary students with an opportunity to gain by our executive leadership team. This corporate culture work is also valuable work experience at one of our locations. supported and championed by members of our Inclusion and Diversity (I&D) Council. The I&D Council was formed in 2017 and develops and The program is open to students in any post-secondary program at a champions the strategy to foster inclusion and respect for broad-based college, university or technical school, and candidates have come from diversity (e.g., race, ethnicity, gender, sexual orientation, experience, a wide range of programs at various stages of their school careers. We backgrounds, etc.). Suncor’s social goal includes a workforce work to place students in a position related to their field of study and development pillar to “increase Indigenous representation in our ensure they have a meaningful experience. workforce.” We’re improving Indigenous workforce development Since 2019, 169 students have participated in the program. Ten through hiring, retention and advancement of Indigenous employees students from the program now have full-time roles at Suncor, and across our businesses. three students from 2019 moved into co-op placements. Feedback from As of 2019, we have 3.2% Indigenous representation in our workforce. students has been positive. Our target is 4% representation by 2025. Through our Indigenous workforce development initiatives, we have an Indigenous workforce advisor and an Indigenous mentorship program. Since 2017, 21 mentees and 63 mentors have participated in the program. As an Indigenous summer student, “My time in the mentorship program was very good. We built trust Suncor made me feel like I had a voice and community as we shared many stories about our heritage, cultures in a larger picture. and families and how we speak to these.” – Dwayne McLeod, senior Matthew Hayden advisor, tailings Sarnia supply chain management student 2019 program Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 93 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change › Performance data › Performance data footnotes › Independent assurance statement › GRI and SASB disclosure index › TCFD disclosure index Appendix › UNGC communication on progress › Advisories Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change Performance data Our sustainability performance data provides annual (Jan. 1 to Dec. 31) operational, environmental, economic, health and safety, and workforce data for 2019, with five-year performance trends where possible. Business segment or facility-level information is also provided, where possible. Environmental performance indicators reflect assets operated by Suncor only, unless otherwise stated. Economic metrics are reported in a manner consistent with our 2019 Annual Report. Footnotes provide additional information for specific boundary conditions, changes in methodology, restatements, and definitions, where applicable. Any data point that is accompanied by the (A) symbol has been independently reviewed and assured by Ernst & Young LLP. Detailed information can also be downloaded on sustainability.suncor.com. Indicators – Suncor company totals 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Operational performance4 Total upstream and downstream production 48.24 44.71 48.53 53.95 55.85 (A) million m3 /yr Total upstream and downstream production 303.42 281.22 305.24 339.33 351.28 (A) million BOE/yr Upstream processed volumes and net production 27.29 24.23 27.22 34.19 36.00 (A) million m3 OE/yr Upstream processed volumes and net production 171.65 152.40 171.21 215.05 226.40 (A) million BOE/yr Downstream net production 27.62 27.23 27.98 26.92 27.57 (A) million m3 refined product/yr Downstream net production 173.72 171.27 175.99 169.32 173.42 (A) million BOE/yr Ethanol production 417.91 414.39 407.80 402.00 399.57 million litres of ethanol product/yr Wind energy generated 313,283 106,912 76,589 100,850 98,419 MWh Greenhouse gas (GHG) and energy 5,6 GHG (Scope 1 and 2) emissions 20,480 18,739 19,874 21,990 22,777 (A) thousand tonnes CO2e GHG (Scope 1) emissions – – – 20,577 21,432 thousand tonnes CO2e GHG (Scope 2) emissions –– – 1,413 1,345 thousand tonnes CO2e GHG emissions intensity 65 63 63 62 62 (A) kg/bbl GHG (Scope 3) emissions 1,549 1,623 1,881 1,525 1,607 thousand tonnes CO2e Energy use 310.40 285.80 301.98 336.10 346.31 million GJ Direct energy use 301.00 276.00 287.89 328.30 340.33 million GJ Indirect energy use 9.78 10.02 14.08 7.78 5.98 million GJ Energy intensity 1.02 1.02 0.99 0.99 0.99 GJ/bbl Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 95 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change Performance data Indicators – Suncor company totals 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Low-carbon cogen power generation 5.50 4.96 4.88 7.15 6.54 MWh Low-carbon cogen power export 3.03 2.76 2.33 3.69 3.33 MWh Air emissions7 SO2 emissions 18.40 21.10 20.51 20.50 20.78 thousand tonnes SO2 emissions intensity 0.06 0.07 0.07 0.06 0.06 kg/bbl NOX emissions 27.90 24.90 26.64 33.29 36.98 thousand tonnes NOX emissions intensity 0.09 0.09 0.09 0.10 0.11 kg/bbl VOC emissions 21.10 19.50 23.14 25.96 21.30 thousand tonnes VOC emissions intensity 0.07 0.07 0.08 0.08 0.06 kg/bbl Water use8 Water withdrawal 142.47 162.18 105.07 144.69 143.43 (A) million m3 Surface water withdrawal 118.92 124.78 74.90 106.88 110.99 million m3 Groundwater withdrawal 2.72 2.51 2.26 3.13 3.92 million m3 Municipality / city / district water withdrawal 4.27 4.22 4.20 4.12 4.16 million m3 Treated wastewater withdrawal 1.51 1.37 1.60 1.52 1.74 million m3 Industrial run off water withdrawal 15.05 29.30 22.10 29.04 22.61 million m3 Water withdrawal intensity 2.95 3.63 2.16 2.68 2.57 (A) m3/m3 Water returned 97.46 105.12 65.99 77.44 77.10 million m3 Water consumption 45.33 57.19 39.07 67.24 66.33 million m3 Water consumption intensity 0.94 1.28 0.81 1.25 1.19 m3/m3 Fresh water consumption 35.90 36.80 22.40 46.52 51.60 million m3 Fresh water consumption intensity 0.74 0.82 0.46 0.86 0.92 m3/m3 Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 96 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change Performance data Indicators – Suncor company totals 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Land disturbance and reclamation10 Total land disturbed 23,757 23,613 23,960 33,772 34,525 cumulative hectares Total land reclaimed 2,154 2,140 2,239 2,621 2,795 cumulative hectares Waste9 Total waste generated 2,391 2,148 2,123 2,487 2,420 thousand tonnes Hazardous waste generated 1,992 1,982 999 983 1,049 thousand tonnes Hazardous waste incinerated 2.38 3.60 3.54 4.14 3.46 thousand tonnes Hazardous waste deep well injection 1,980 1,963 985 958 1,010 thousand tonnes Hazardous waste landfilled 5.70 12.01 7.25 6.16 7.55 thousand tonnes Hazardous waste otherwise disposed or treated 4.09 3.15 3.27 15.04 28.22 thousand tonnes Non-hazardous waste generated 399 167 1,124 1,503 1,371 thousand tonnes Non-hazardous waste incinerated 1.56 0.69 0.09 0.17 0.02 thousand tonnes Non-hazardous waste deep well injection 0.80 0.87 986.85 1,315 1,174 thousand tonnes Non-hazardous waste landfilled 383 161 135 179 184 thousand tonnes Non-hazardous waste otherwise disposed or treated 13.92 4.27 1.62 9.71 13.08 thousand tonnes Waste recycled, reused or recovered 135.00 123.00 71.00 96.18 151.82 thousand tonnes Environmental compliance11 Environmental non-compliance – 5 4 8 7 # Environmental regulatory fines –275 413 282 113 thousand CND$ Significant spills –0 0 0 0 # Economic14 Revenues and other income 29,680 26,968 32,079 38,986 38,989 $ millions Operating, selling and general expense (OS&G) 8,607 9,150 9,245 10,573 11,244 $ millions Employee costs 3.30 3.40 3.20 3.30 3.60 $ billions Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 97 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change Performance data Indicators – Suncor company totals 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Royalties and taxes paid 1,805 105 1,489 1,695 2,555 $ millions Distribution to shareholders 2,565 2,889 3,069 3,230 3,439 $ millions Economic value retained 16,677 14,789 18,249 23,488 21,751 $ millions Enterprise value 67 89 89 76 81 $ billions Capital and exploration expenditures 6,667 6,582 6,551 5,406 5,558 $ millions Political donations 15 3 0 0 0 $ thousands Purchases of goods and services 12.80 11.91 11.64 10.62 9.90 $ billions Total Indigenous supplier – spend 599 445 521 703 836 $ millions Indigenous supplier – spend direct 593 428 497 628 804 $ millions Indigenous supplier – spend indirect 6 17 24 21 32 $ millions Community investments15 Total contributions to charitable, non-charitable and community groups 26,346 33,800 26,557 28,980 33,102 $ thousands Value of cash donations 24,425 22,843 25,466 27,843 32,747 $ thousands Value of time donations 408 83 800 161 160 $ thousands Value of in-kind donations 382 10,873 291 1,137 187 $ thousands Value of management cost donations 988 953 994 1,143 1,378 $ thousands Value of external resources leveraged 143 744 232 945 786 $ thousands Suncor’s donation to the Suncor Energy Foundation (SEF) 4,500 10,164 16,600 18,455 20,255 $ thousands Suncor Energy Foundation (SEF) donations 16,055 14,881 16,649 15,817 15,143 $ thousands SunCares Employee Program Employee participation – – 27 26 29 % Organizations supported – – 1,271 1,377 1,501 # Value of Suncor and SEF donations – – 1,668 2,822 2,660 $ thousands Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 98 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change Performance data Indicators – Suncor company totals 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Value of employee personal donations – – 1,313 2,719 3,138 $ thousands Volunteer hours – – 80,706 73,259 96,067 # Health and safety12 Total lost time injury frequency 0.04 0.04 0.03 0.03 0.04 # per 200,000 hours worked Employee lost time injury frequency 0.05 0.04 0.03 0.02 0.06 # per 200,000 hours worked Contractor lost time injury frequency 0.04 0.05 0.04 0.03 0.03 # per 200,000 hours worked Total recordable injury frequency 0.45 0.33 0.40 0.37 0.39 # per 200,000 hours worked Employee recordable injury frequency 0.27 0.27 0.30 0.29 0.39 # per 200,000 hours worked Contractor recordable injury frequency 0.56 0.36 0.45 0.41 0.41 # per 200,000 hours worked Fatalities 0 0 1 0 1 # Tier 1 and 2 loss of primary containment events 180 87 46 45 38 # Workforce13 Suncor employees 13,235 13,243 12,649 12,626 13,718 # Full-time employees 13,042 12,888 12,389 12,317 13,004 # Part-time employees 97 121 111 98 97 # Temporary/casual employees 96 252 149 211 617 # Long-term contractors 2,663 757 809 559 2,216 # Unionized workforce 34.50 34.60 32.80 33.20 31.62 % Women 23.40 24.50 23.80 23.20 24.73 % Men 75.70 75.50 76.20 76.80 75.27 % Indigenous Peoples 1.60 1.90 3.00 3.10 3.24 % Visible minorities 10.30 12.60 14.70 12.60 11.79 % Persons with disabilities 0.50 0.80 0.700 0.70 0.73 % Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 99 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change Performance data Indicators – Suncor company totals 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Women in management 24 29 27 28 34 % New employee hires Male new employee hires 70.70 77.00 76.90 69.70 73.01 % Female new employee hires 29.30 23.00 23.10 30.30 26.99 % Employee turnover 7.60 7.00 5.80 6.00 4.76 % Male employee turnover 6.50 6.40 5.40 5.80 4.37 % Female employee turnover 11.30 8.90 7.10 6.80 5.11 % Percentage of basic salary – – – – 97 % Management – – – – 96 % Individual contributor – – – – 97 % Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 100 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change Performance data footnotes 1 Overview Performance data provided throughout our Report on Sustainability in tables and graphs includes social, environmental and economic indicators from the 2019 reporting year with five-year trends, where feasible. Economic data is reported in a consistent manner with our 2019 Annual Report. These notes provide additional details on boundary conditions, and changes in methodologies, definitions, business segment structure changes or changes to historical data. We also implement our own internal guidelines and definitions for data gathering and reporting. 2 Reporting boundaries Other than royalties, which represent Suncor’s proportionate share of joint operations, environmental and social performance data is collected and reported for all facilities operated by Suncor (100%, not adjusted for Suncor’s ownership share), and our joint venture interests operated by other organizations are not included. Facilities are subject to annual planned and unplanned maintenance activities, which may impact consistent year-over-year trends. Facilities that are purchased and subsequently operated by Suncor in the middle of a reporting year are pro-rated based on the date of operatorship. 3 Summary of business segments and operations included in performance data: a. Suncor-totals reflect consolidation of data where relevant and applicable. b. Upstream (Oil Sands Base) include Millennium and North Steepbank mining, extraction and integrated upgrading facilities, integrated Poplar Creek cogeneration facility (owned and operated by Suncor as of 2015), and associated infrastructure for these assets, but does not include Syncrude. c. Upstream (Fort Hills) d. Upstream (Oil Sands In Situ operations) data includes oil sands bitumen production from Firebag and MacKay River operations and supporting infrastructure. e. Upstream Exploration and Production (E&P) includes: • E&P Terra Nova FPSO vessel situated off the east coast of Canada. • E&P North America Onshore natural gas assets operated by Suncor. Assets were significantly divested from 2013 to 2015 and in 2018 Suncor sold its mineral land holdings in north-eastern British Columbia to Canbriam Energy Inc. • Additional information about our E&P business can be found at www.suncor.com. f. Downstream (Refining and Logistics) includes refining operations in Montreal, Sarnia, Edmonton, and Commerce City Colo. Suncor previously operated a lubricants business in Mississauga, Ont, which was sold Feb. 1, 2017. 2017 performance data reflects this sale. Other assets include a petrochemical plant and sulphur recovery facility in Montreal, and product pipelines and terminals in Canada. Additional information about our downstream business is available at www.suncor.com. g. Renewables includes wind power facilities operated by Suncor, and in graphs are reported with the St. Clair ethanol plant, located in Ontario. 4 Notes on operational performance and production a. See “Advisories,” as barrels of oil equivalent and cubic metres of oil equivalent may be misleading indicators of value. b. Oil Sands Base production is gross sweet and sour synthetic crude oil associated with mining, extraction and upgrading and includes unprocessed volumes. This may be different than production reported in our 2019 Annual Report. c. Fort Hills production is partially upgraded bitumen associated with the paraffinic froth treatment process. d. In situ production is net bitumen sales associated with total plant saleable product. e. East Coast (Terra Nova) production is total amount of product sold, not flaring or internally produced fuel. f. Refining and Logistics net production is reported on a business unit level, where transfers between our facilities have been removed from facility production totals. Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 101 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change Performance data footnotes g. St. Clair ethanol plant production is ethanol produced and converted to cubic metres of oil equivalent, on an energy basis. h. Wind energy production is in megawatt hours, from Suncor-operated wind facilities, (100%not adjusted for ownership). i. Our refineries that blend ethanol into gasoline are Sarnia, Montreal, Commerce City and Edmonton. j. Production data is inconsistent with our 2019 Annual Report due different reporting boundaries. 5 Notes on greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) 5.1 GHG emissions factors Emissions factors allow us to estimate GHG emissions from a unit of available activity data (e.g. quantity of fuel consumed or product produced). The metric we use in our Report on Sustainability for reporting GHG emissions is metric tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e). This common unit for reporting GHGs represents volumes of gases that have been studied to have an impact on the global atmosphere. CO2e means that individual GHGs have been multiplied by their assessed global warming potential (GWP) compared to carbon dioxide (CO2). This report (and our 2015-2019 Reports on Sustainability) uses the 100-year GWPs issued by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change’s (IPCC’s) fourth assessment report (2007), which aligns to several jurisdictions of GHG reporting, including Environment Canada and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. The major impacts of using the GWPs issued by the IPCC’s fourth assessment report are that emissions from methane increase slightly due to an increase in the GWP factor from 21 to 25. Emissions from nitrous oxides (N2O) decrease slightly with that factor decreasing from 310 to 298. Other GHGs have also had their GWPs adjusted but have little to no material impact on our total GHG emissions. 5.2 Measuring potential GHG emission sources As an integrated energy company spanning multiple jurisdictions, sectors and operations, we use several different externally developed and publicly accepted emission factor protocols to develop facility-specific emission calculation methodologies. We select the appropriate protocol for the site-specific fuel type and composition, emission source, facility or jurisdiction being considered. As required by regulators and verified by external auditors, we use internationally accepted GHG protocols and methodologies in determining our overall emissions profile. In addition to using fuel-specific emission factors, some GHG emissions are calculated using processor equipment-specific consumption rates in units such as run-hours, and not fuel volumes. Many of our sites have complicated processes that require specific emission factors and methodologies to accurately calculate their emissions. Primarily, our sites use protocols and methodologies that are required by their operating jurisdiction. However, if no prescribed methodology is required, it may be necessary to use a combination of standardized methodologies at a single facility due to site-and sector-specific details that may not be completely covered by a single standard or regulation. On occasion, more accurate emission factors – measured, calculated from compositional data, or manufacturer-supplied – may be available for specific equipment. These are used whenever and wherever appropriate to ensure we gather the best quality data and use the most accurate measures. Specific emission factors are calculated from actual measured data rather than applying generic estimated default factors as frequently as possible. In other cases, such as when calculating indirect emissions from externally purchased electric power, we use factors primarily from site-specific factors if available, secondarily where prescribed by regulation and finally, from published emission factors for remaining emission sources. Due to the unique nature of each site, we have more than 1,400 standard emission factors in our Environmental Information Management System that are applied at different sites. This number does not include thousands of additional factors that are calculated daily for different fuels and sites based on fuel composition analysis. These factors give us real-time gas composition and resulting carbon content. 5.3 The role of regulation in GHG reporting Many jurisdictions have, or are in the process of developing, prescriptive regulations that specify which factors can be used. For example, the EPA and regulators in Western Climate Initiative jurisdictions such as Quebec and British Columbia all required operators to use specified factors for the 2019 reporting year. Alberta requires large emitting facilities to use the standard methodology and emission factors in the Carbon Competitiveness Initiative Regulation (CCIR). Each of our sites that report through the CCIR successfully generated positive (approved) verifications for the 2019 reporting year at a reasonable level of assurance. Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 102 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change Performance data footnotes 5.4 GHG standard practices and methodologies External agencies have developed industry-accepted standard methodologies that operators can choose to use in the absence of prescribed methods. The standard practices and methodologies we follow are widely accepted, well researched and documented so the numbers produced are verifiable by governments and third parties, and are consistently applied from year to year. A partial list of these standard methodologies and guidance documents includes: • American Petroleum Institute Compendium of Greenhouse Gas Emissions Methodologies for the Oil and Natural Gas Industry, 2009 • US EPA Mandatory Greenhouse Gas Reporting Rule • IPCC Fourth Assessment Report 2007 • World Business Council for Sustainable Development/World Resources Institute Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard 2004 • Environment Canada Greenhouse Gas Inventory 1990 – 2007 Report 2009 • Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change 2006 Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories • Western Climate Initiative (WCI) Design for the WCI Regional Program, July 2010 • National Renewable Energy Laboratory Life Cycle Assessment of Hydrogen Production via Natural Gas Steam Reforming • Alberta Quantification Methodologies for the Carbon Competitiveness Incentive Regulation and the Specified Gas Reporting Regulation (Version 1.4) • O. Reg. 390/18: Guideline for Quantification, Reporting and Verification of Greenhouse Gas Emissions 2019 • Regulation respecting mandatory reporting of certain emissions of contaminants into the atmosphere 2019 • Environment Canada Facility Greenhouse Gas Reporting Program: Canada’s Greenhouse Gas Quantification Requirements 2019 • Environment Canada National Inventory Report, 1990-2017 • Canadian Association of Petroleum Producers: Guide Calculating Greenhouse Gas Emissions, April 2003 5.5 Additional GHG notes a. GHG emissions are calculated using facility-specific and referenced methodologies accepted by the relevant jurisdictions each facility is required to report GHG emissions to. Methodology has been followed where a jurisdiction has a prescribed one and if none exist then the most applicable and accurate methods available are used to quantify each emission source. b. Absolute CO2e emissions represents the total Scope 1 and 2 emissions with no credit taken for low carbon power production. The power credit above is calculated using the cogeneration power exported to the Alberta grid and the intensity in which this power was generated. It is included in determining the GHG emissions intensities. c. The Suncor-total intensity calculation incorporates net facility production, minus internal transfers, resulting in a production value reflective of our product sales to market. Suncor-total intensity will therefore not equal the weighted average of business unit intensities. Upstream intensity is the production-weighted average intensities of our Oil Sands Base, Fort Hills, E&P and Fort Hills assets. d. In situ (MacKay River) indirect emissions methodology reported since 2014 include electricity purchased from the grid, purchased electricity and steam from the third-party TransCanada cogen. Firebag cogeneration units are owned and operated by Suncor and therefore all cogen emissions contribute to total direct emissions including emissions associated with generating electricity that is sold to the Alberta grid. e. Absolute (total) GHG emissions are the sum of direct and indirect emissions. f. Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions are from sources that are owned or controlled by the reporting company. Refining and Logistics direct emissions do not deduct CO2 transfers to third parties, such as the food and beverage industries. g. Indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions are energy-related emissions that are a consequence of our operations, but occur at sources owned or controlled by another company (e.g. purchases of electricity, steam, heat, and cooling). The indirect energy calculation methodology credits operations for electricity exported to external users and/or other Suncor facilities. Emissions are calculated based on actual supplier data where possible and published literature where supplier data is unavailable. Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 103 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change Performance data footnotes h. Indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions include hydrogen purchased from third parties and CO2 volumes sold from our facilities to third-parties for further processing, and can fluctuate annually depending on supplier demand. This is consistent with provincial government reporting requirements. Additional Scope 3 emissions include: • aviation (commercial and charter) • facilities (Suncor Energy Centre, East Canada and USA) • ground transportation services for employees and contractors • licensed fleet vehicles on site • lodges i. Annual variance in indirect (Scope 3) emissions from 2016 to 2019 is attributed to the following: • reporting more information (more complete data set) • emission factors were updated • scope changes • actual data instead of estimated j. Suncor’s GHG goal is designed to encourage business choices that reduce Suncor’s emissions and the emissions in the global energy system. To support tracking our goal progress, Suncor developed a methodology that includes both direct emissions reductions from our operated assets and indirect reductions from the use of our products. The data in the GHG performance section reflects our owned and operated assets emissions. Direct and indirect CO2e emissions are included for this report. No credit is taken for GHG reductions due to internally generated performance credits, purchased offsets, ethanol lifecycle GHG reductions or wind-generated offsets. k. Scenario pathways graph: Daniel Huppmann, Elmar Kriegler, Volker Krey, Keywan Riahi, Joeri Rogelj, Steven K. Rose, John Weyant, et al., IAMC 1.5°C Scenario Explorer and Data hosted by IIASA, release 1.1. Integrated Assessment Modeling Consortium & International Institute for Applied Systems Analysis, 2018. Accessed July 9, 2020, doi: https://doi.org/10.22022/SR15/08-2018.15429; url: https://data.ene.iiasa.ac.at/iamc-1.5c-explorer. 6 Notes on energy consumption a. Total energy is equal to the sum of direct and indirect energy. Electricity that is produced and sold to the provincial grids by oil sands and in situ cogeneration units and operated wind farms is converted to an equivalent amount in GJs and deducted from total energy use. b. Direct energy is primary energy consumed on-site by Suncor operated facilities. c. Indirect energy includes imported electricity, steam, heating and cooling from third parties. The indirect energy calculation method credits operations for electricity exported to external users and/or other Suncor facilities. d. The energy intensity of renewables business is based on energy input for ethanol production with wind energy production deducted from that total energy input. 7 Notes on other air emissions a. Air emissions data reported (NOX, SO2, and VOC) include point and non-point sources. b. Fort Hills 2018 VOC emissions were revised based on changes to emission factors and over-reporting of fugitive emissions. An outlier/ erroneous value was removed from the fugitive emissions dataset. c. We report to the Canadian National Pollutant Release Inventory and the US Toxic Release Inventory annually and additional information on our performance can be found through these reporting mechanisms. d. Graphs associated with SO2, NOX and VOC emissions intensity only include facilities that are material sources of these emissions for our business. Oil Sands estimation accuracy for VOC emissions intensity is greater than +/10% and limited by currently accepted methodology and measurement instruments. e. The increase in total NOX emission intensity was primarily due to increased diesel consumption for the mine fleet as well as higher utilization of the coke boiler following a 2018 scheduled turnaround at Oil Sands Base Plant. Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 104 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change Performance data footnotes 8 Notes on water use and return a. Total water withdrawal is the removal or purchase of water from any source, either permanently or temporarily. Also referred to as water abstraction or water intake. Fresh and non-fresh water sources are included. b. Total water return is the sum of effluents and other water leaving the organization’s boundary and released to surface water, groundwater or to third parties over the course of the reporting year. c. Fresh water is characterized by a low total dissolved solids content for which limits are defined by regulation in the jurisdiction of the Suncor activity. Where no regulatory definition of freshwater exists, default to the Alberta Environment limit of freshwater having less than 4000 mg/L of total dissolved solids. d. Water consumption is the total water withdrawn minus water returned and reflects quantity of water used and not returned to its proximate source or no longer available in its original form. e. Freshwater consumption and intensity graphs: Oil Sands Base Plant and Fort Hills in this graph do not include industrial runoff water, which is subject to annual variances based on precipitation. Withdrawal and consumption including industrial runoff volumes are shown in the performance data tables. Water measurement and estimation methodology on select Refining and Logistics operations is greater than +/10% uncertainty. f. Freshwater consumption intensity is the volume of fresh water consumed (m3) per volume of hydrocarbon produced (m3). g. Oil Sands base mining water withdrawal includes surface water, groundwater and industrial run-off water as per regulatory withdrawal licences and are subject to annual variances based on precipitation. Water returned comprised treated industrial waste-water and runoff from non-process areas that gets collected, diverted and eventually discharged to the environment (destination is the Athabasca River). h. In Situ water withdrawal includes licenced groundwater wells, treated wastewater and industrial run-off water. i. East Coast operations water withdrawal includes freshwater (transferred by vessel from St. John’s domestic water system) bunkered to the FPSO potable water tanks for domestic use on the facility. It also includes topside seawater intake flow used for process cooling and water injection for production purposes. j. Refining and Logistics surface water withdrawal sources and return destinations vary by refinery facility location. k. 2019 freshwater consumption increased due to increased production at Fort Hills. Fort Hills is building up water inventory for recycling. As we better understand our operational water use and efficiency at site, we will continue to explore opportunities to further reduce water use. 9 Notes on waste management a. Waste volumes are dependent on site activities or periodic equipment maintenance and may fluctuate annually. b. In Situ waste that is sent to deep well injection is primarily related to blowdown from our SAGD operations at Firebag, consisting of concentrated water impurities that accumulate during the steam generation process. This boiler feedwater is intentionally wasted from the boilers to avoid concentration of impurities during continuing evaporation of steam. Deepwell disposal methods of this nature are safe, viable and part of normal operating parameters and our operations are within the disposal limits for these waste streams (regulated by the Alberta Energy Regulator). Our operations also have exceptionally high water recycle rates, above regulated levels. c. Total 2019 waste generated volumes reflect decreased production at in situ sites, decreased construction at Fort Hills and relatively consistent Refining and Logistics operations. d. 2019 volumes for waste recycled, reused or recovered increased due to improved waste recycling programs throughout our operations. 10 Notes on land disturbance and reclamation/ tailings a. Total land disturbed presented in the performance data table represents the total active footprint of our Base Plant mining operations, Fort Hills operations and approved in situ projects, which include the cumulative hectares for areas cleared of vegetation, soil disturbed, ready for reclamation, soils placed, and permanently reclaimed. The categories used are consistent with reporting to the Alberta Energy Regulator in the annual reports. Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 105 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change Performance data footnotes b. Land reclaimed is land that is no longer being used for mine or plant purposes or in situ production purposes and has been permanently or temporarily reclaimed. This value is a subset of the total active footprint. Reclamation is presented as a cumulative number; therefore, the total number of hectares reported from year to year may increase depending on whether reclamation has occurred or whether re-disturbance of previously reclaimed areas was required. Permanently reclaimed lands have met the authorized plans for soil placement and re-vegetation but have not been certified by the Alberta Energy Regulator. c. Mining and In Situ reclamation data presented in the land and reclamation graphs: • Certified land is returned to the Crown and does not count toward the total active footprint • Disturbed means soil has been disturbed • Cleared means vegetation has been removed and soils are intact d. The dam safety regulation in Alberta is through the Water (Ministerial) Regulation and detailed in the Dam and Canal Safety Directive. The regulation and directive governs dam safety requirements for all dams and canals in the province, including defining dam classifications: • Active is defined as in operation for either ongoing tailings management or progressing to closure • Inactive is defined as not in operation but not yet closed • Closed is defined as having completed closure activities but still owned by the operator 11 Notes on environmental compliance a. In 2018, we improved the environmental compliance metrics we report on a company-wide level, which better align with our internal tools, processes and metrics and also to Global Reporting Initiative Standards. Our focus is always in incident prevention, and all spill events are recorded and investigated. Root cause is determined and remedial actions are implemented to minimize risk and chance of recurrence. Historical environmental compliance metrics using this improved methodology aren’t available; however, prior year environmental compliance information is accessible in past versions of our Report on Sustainability. b. Environmental non-compliance data aligns with our risk matrix (defined by Suncor) and guiding principles for managing risk and reflects at minimum an event triggering a regulatory exceedance or non-compliance, resulting in a regulatory investigation and administrative actions and/or more stringent penalties imposed on Suncor. c. Environmental regulatory fines also align to our risk matrix, and reflect financial penalties levied by the regulator or the courts and paid in the reporting year as a result of a regulatory non-compliance or exceedance. This includes administrative penalties, but not enforcement tickets. d. Significant spills reflect unplanned or accidental release of material whose impact off property takes longer than seven months to remediate, or on property one year or more to remediate or reclaim. These could be into the environment or into a location that does not usually contain the material, as specified by geographical regulation. e. Our enterprise-wide environmental compliance metrics help identify incidents with the greatest environmental and regulatory risk. The intent of these metrics is to learn from environmental incidents to prevent reoccurrence and promote the consistent enterprise-wide application of appropriate mitigations. f. In 2019, notice of non-compliance was issued by the regulator for an incident that occurred in 2018; therefore, we have restated 2018 environmental non-compliance for Fort Hills and Suncor-wide performance data. g. The sum of fines paid during the reporting period were due to violating waste requirements in the U.S., and for a release that occurred in 2015 at one of the terminals in our Refining and Logistics business. h. All compliance information reported in this filing is based on data as of March 1, 2020. Compliance data is subject to restatement for a full year as events are updated and reclassified to ensure consistency and accuracy in publicly available information. 12 Notes on health and safety a. Downstream Refining and Logistics health and safety data includes our St. Clair ethanol plant. Our U.S. operations use the Occupational Health and Safety Administration definitions to classify their injuries, which differ slightly from Canadian standards. Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 106 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change Performance data footnotes b. Beginning in 2018, the health and safety data reflects the new regional organizational structure for Suncor’s operations in the Regional Municipality of Wood Buffalo (RMWB). This now reflects health and safety data for Suncor’s Fort Hills operations and the Regional Services organization: a team that provides support services to Suncor’s assets in the RMWB. c. Lost time injury is a work-related injury that results in lost days from work. Fatalities are included in lost time injuries. Frequency is calculated as the number of lost time injuries multiplied by 200,000 (based on 100 workers working full-time for one year) divided by the actual exposure hours. This tells us how many workers who are injured for every 100. Prime contractor incident data is excluded from this metric. d. In 2018, one contractor event which was a medical treatment became a lost time in July 2019. Therefore, we have restated 2018 contractor lost time injury frequency for Regional Services and Suncor-wide performance data. e. Recordable injury frequency is the number of recordable injuries (including medical treatment, restricted work access and lost time) multiplied by 200,000 (based on 100 workers working full-time divided by the actual exposure hours). This tells us how many people are injured for every 100 workers in a calendar year. Prime contractor incident data is excluded from this metric. f. In 2018, one employee event which was a medical treatment was downgraded to a First Aid by the company physician in September 2019. Therefore we have restated 2018 employee recordable injury frequency for Downstream and Suncor-wide performance data. g. Contractors refer to any organization, company or individual who provides goods and/or services to Suncor. h. Fatalities are reported for employees and contractors (excluding prime contractors). The prime contractor for a work site is (a) the person in control of the work site; or (b) a person designated in writing by the person in control of the work site. Prime contractors have full care, custody and control meaning they manage their own work and are responsible for maintaining safe working environments. In 2017, a contract worker was fatally injured when inside an excavation. In 2019, we suffered the tragic loss of a contractor colleague at Fort Hills. i. Process Safety Tier 1 and 2 Loss of Primary Containment (LOPC) events are unplanned or uncontrolled release of any material from primary containment resulting in consequences as specified by American Petroleum Institute Recommended Practice 754 Second Edition, 2016 and International Association Oil & Gas Producers Report 456: Process Safety Recommended Practice on Key Performance Indicators Version 2.0, 2018. The LOPC data is a sum of Tier 1 and 2 LOPC events. j. All health and safety information reported in this filing is based on data as of April 1, 2020. Health and safety data is subject to restatement for a full year as events are updated and reclassified to ensure consistency and accuracy in publicly available information. 13 Notes on workforce a. New employee hires are any externally hired regular full-time or part-time employee whose permanent start date falls within the reporting period. b. Employee turnover is the percentage of employees who leave Suncor under any circumstance in the reporting year. Only terminations are included for full-time and part-time employees. c. Suncor employees include regular full-time, regular part-time, students, casuals or temporary employees. Leaves, other than long-term disability, such as maternity, paternity, personal leave, as well as short-term disabilities, are considered active and are included. d. Long-term contractors are individual workers engaged as a contractor to support short-term, variable work and have been determined by the number of contractors holding a position at Suncor in the organizational structure e. Unionized workforce data is only applicable in areas where there is a unionized environment. f. Certain operating regions prohibit collecting information on gender; therefore, diversity data may not reflect our entire workforce due to data availability. Workforce diversity is calculated based on information provided voluntarily by employees. Indicators referring to ethnicity and disability reflect only those employees who consented to release this information. g. Women in management is classified as members of the management committee or members of the corporate committee. In 2019, calculation methodology was updated and data has been restated for 2015 to 2018. h. All workforce information reported in this filing is based on data as of April 1, 2020. Workforce data is not consistent with the 2019 Annual Report, as data has been updated and reclassified to ensure accuracy in publicly available information. Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 107 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change Performance data footnotes i. Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men: • For the purpose of this calculation females are the numerator and males are the denominator. • Ratio only reflects full-time and part-time, salaried, and non-unionized employees. • Unknown genders are not included in the ratio calculation. • Salary band is used to calculate the ratio at each band level to group similarly paid individuals. A weighted average is applied to each band level to obtain the overall ratio for Individual Contributors and Management categories. • Annual salary conversion was applied to all countries based on finance department’s guidance on usage of the average yearly exchange rate for each currency. • Management is defined by the following leadership levels: front-line leaders, mid-level leaders, management committee and corporate committee. • Individual contributors are defined as positions with no direct reports. 14 Notes on economic performance a. Select economic figures have been calculated according to the International Financial Reporting Standards. For complete disclosure of our financial information, see our 2019 Annual Report. b. Operating, Selling and General (OS&G) expenses are subject to historical restatements due to reclassifications within our income statement. Employee costs are reported in our annual report under OS&G and include salaries, benefits and share-based compensation. Typically a portion of employee costs are capitalized as part of fixed assets. c. Royalties and taxes paid include monies remitted to government, including income, property, and other taxes, Crown royalties, and lease bonuses and rentals. d. Under GRI Standard 201-1, economic value retained reflects the direct economic value generated (revenues) minus economic value distributed (operating costs (including employee costs), taxes and royalties paid, distribution to shareholders and community investments). e. Capital and exploration expenditures includes capitalized interest. f. As of June 1, 2016, Suncor no longer makes political contributions as a matter of policy, except in exceptional circumstances. Any such contributions will continue to be disclosed in this report. g. Indigenous supplier-spend: • Direct spend is considered contracting work directly with an Indigenous business that includes those with a minimum of 51% ownership by Indigenous individuals or organizations. • Indirect spend is considered contracting with a non-Indigenous supplier who sub-contracts to an Indigenous business that is greater than or equal to 51% owned for work that is being performed on behalf of Suncor, contracting with an Indigenous supplier who has a minority ownership in a non-Indigenous business, or a non-Indigenous supplier who has a commercial agreement where revenue received from work being performed for Suncor goes back to the community. h. Values reported for Indigenous supplier revenues reflect amounts captured in our enterprise software data management system, minus 5% GST. i. Inclusion of contracts in the reporting year is based on the payment date, not the date of services rendered. j. In prior years, the enterprise value was mistakenly reported as market capitalization, with the difference between the two being that enterprise value includes debt and deducts cash and cash equivalents. Going forward, we will continue to report the enterprise value. For disclosure on market capitalization, see our 2019 Annual Report. 15 Notes on community investments a. Since 2014, values for community investments are calculated by Suncor and the Suncor Energy Foundation (SEF). The SEF is audited annually by KPMG. The value of total contributions includes cash, volunteer rewards and in-kind donations; also as of 2019 this includes Suncor’s contribution through Syncrude community investment. Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 108 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change Performance data footnotes b. Value of time donations is reported by employees to Suncor voluntarily. The hours represent hours volunteered during working hours. c. Value of management cost donations from 2015 to 2019 is for SEF only. d. External resources leveraged represents cash and in-kind value generated as a result of Suncor’s involvement, but which is not a cost to the company (e.g. employee contributions through our SunCares employee programs, food donations, and matching donations from other funders). e. The SEF is limited to providing donations to registered Canadian charitable organizations, and Suncor’s contribution to SEF represents donations, operating budget and appropriate allocations to a reserve fund which protects multi-year commitments going forward. f. Suncor launched a new SunCares employee program in 2017, and prior year data is not available. Suncor and SEF donations include corporate and volunteer rewards, matching donations and the value of volunteer time during work hours. Employee personal donations include employee and retiree donations and donations made through the public SunCares Community Impact Portal. Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 109 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change Independent assurance statement Ernst & Young LLP Tel: +1 403-290-4100 Calgary City Centre Web: www.ey.com 2200 – 215 2nd Street SW Calgary, Alberta Canada T2P 1M4 To the Board of Directors and Management of Suncor Energy Services Inc. (Suncor) Scope of our engagement Our responsibilities included providing limited assurance over a selection of performance indicators as presented in Suncor’s 2020 Report on Sustainability (the Report). Subject matter We have performed limited assurance procedures for the following quantitative performance indicators as presented in the respective sections of the Report and the overall performance data tables for the year ended December 31, 2019 (the Subject Matter). Unless otherwise noted, the indicators were assured on a corporate-wide basis. • Total upstream and downstream production (55.85 million m3/year) • Upstream net production (36.00 million m3 OE/year) • Downstream net production (27.57 million m3 refined product/year) • Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Scope 1 and 2 emissions (22,777 thousand tonnes CO2e) • GHG emissions intensity (62 kg CO2e/ bbl production) • Water withdrawal (143.43 million m3) • Water withdrawal intensity (2.57 m3/m3) • Employee and Contractor fatalities (1 fatality) • Total land disturbed (Oil Sands Base plant and Fort Hills) (32,704 cumulative hectares) • Total land reclaimed (Oil Sands Base plant only) (2,400 cumulative hectares) Criteria Suncor has prepared its performance data in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI Standards) and internally developed criteria (the Criteria). Suncor management responsibilities The Report was prepared by the management of Suncor, who is responsible for the assertions, statements, and claims made therein including the assertions we have been engaged to provide limited assurance over, collection, quantification and presentation of the performance indicators and the criteria used in determining that the information is appropriate for the purpose of disclosure in the Report. In addition, management is responsible for maintaining adequate records and internal controls that are designed to support the reporting process. Our responsibilities Our limited assurance procedures have been planned and performed in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 “Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information”. Our procedures were designed to obtain a limited level of assurance on which to base our conclusion. The procedures conducted do not provide all the evidence that would be required in a reasonable assurance engagement and, accordingly, we do not express a reasonable level of assurance. Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 110 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change Independent assurance statement While we considered the effectiveness of management’s internal controls when determining the nature and extent of our procedures, our assurance engagement was not designed to provide assurance on internal controls and, accordingly, we express no conclusions thereon. This assurance statement has been prepared for Suncor for the purpose of assisting management in determining whether the Subject Matter is in accordance with the Criteria and for no other purpose. Our assurance statement is made solely to Suncor in accordance with the terms of our engagement. We do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than Suncor for our work, or for the conclusions we have reached in this assurance statement. Assurance procedures We planned and performed our work to obtain all the evidence, information and explanations considered necessary in relation to the above scope. Our assurance procedures included but were not limited to: • Interviewing relevant personnel at the head office and at various sites to understand data management processes related to the selected performance indicators. • Checking the accuracy of calculations performed – on a test basis – primarily through inquiry, variance analysis and performance of re-calculations. • Checking that data and statements have been correctly transcribed from the corporate system into the Report. • Assessing risk of material misstatement due to fraud or errors relating to the selected performance indicators. • Evaluating the overall presentation of the Report, including the consistency of the Subject Matter. Limitations of our work performed Our scope of work did not include expressing conclusions in relation to: • The materiality, completeness or accuracy of data sets or information relating to areas other than the Subject Matter, and any site-specific information. • Information reported outside of the Report. • Management’s forward-looking statements. • Any comparisons made by Suncor against historical data. • The appropriateness of definitions for internally developed criteria. Independence and competency statement In conducting our engagement, we have complied with the applicable requirements of the Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants issued by the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants (IESBA). Our conclusion Based on our procedures for this limited assurance engagement as outlined above, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the Subject Matter is not, in all material respects, reported in accordance with the relevant criteria. Ernst & Young LLP Calgary, Canada July 14, 2020 Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 111 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change GRI and SASB disclosure index This Report on Sustainability has been prepared in accordance with: are classified within the Midstream categorization will be included • the Core option of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards within the Refining and Logistics section. We’ll continue to evaluate with additional use of the GRI’s Oil and Gas Sector Disclosures. additional SASB metrics for potential disclosure in future reports. This index describes: The disclosure index below contains information and additional links – which GRI Standards and material topics have been covered in that relate to specific content within the 2020 Report on Sustainability this report and other annual disclosures published by Suncor Energy, which supply – where to find additional information in this report, other public useful information for gathering a full understanding of the company. disclosures, or omissions Legend: – standards that have been externally assured • ROS – Suncor’s 2020 Report on Sustainability • the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) as • CRRR – Suncor’s 2020 Climate Risk and Resilience Report the most relevant to long-term value creation for the industry we • AIF – Annual Information Form dated February 26, 2020 operate in. We value disclosure as a foundational activity for investor engagement and support efforts which seek to drive consistency • MPC – Suncor’s 2020 Management Proxy Circular and comparability of sustainability performance data. Due to the • AR – Suncor’s 2019 Annual Report integrated nature of our business, we’ve elected to refer to several • CDP Climate – Suncor’s 2020 CDP Climate Change Response SASB standards including Metals and Mining, Oil & Gas – Exploration • CDP Water – Suncor’s 2020 CDP Water Security Response & Production, and Oil & Gas – Refining and Logistics. Any values that SASB code GRI code Description Response, link or additional information General 102-1 Name of the organization Suncor Energy Inc. 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services ROS – Operations summary 102-3 Location of headquarters Calgary, Alberta (Canada) 102-4 Location of operations ROS – Operations summary 102-5 Ownership and legal form AIF (p. 5) 102-6 Markets served ROS – Operations summary 102-7 Scale of the organization ROS – Operations summary ROS – Performance data AR (p. 3) EM-MM-000.B 102-8 Information on employees and other workers ROS – Performance data 102-9 Supply chain ROS – Supply chain 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and ROS – Performance data its supply chain AR (pp. 29-31) 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach ROS – Our purpose 102-12 External initiatives ROS – Engagement Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 112 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change GRI and SASB disclosure index SASB code GRI code Description Response, link or additional information 102-13 Membership of associations The following is a list of organizations and trade associations of which we are a member and that may engage in lobbying of governments. $50K $100K • Business Council of Canada • Canadian Chamber of Commerce • Canadian Manufacturers and Exporters • Ceres • Colorado Petroleum Association • Colorado Oil and Gas Association • Denver Metro Chamber of Commerce • Industrial Gas Users Association • Public Policy Forum • Resource Works Society • Strathcona Industrial Association • World Economic Forum >$100K • Canadian Propane Association • American Fuel and Petrochemical Manufacturers • Canadian Association of Petroleum Producers • Canadian Fuels Association • Canada’s Oil Sands Innovation Alliance • Colorado Asphalt Pavement Association • International Association of Oil and Gas Producers • Canadian Propane Association • Sarnia & Lambton Environmental Association For a listing of the groups that receive funding from the Suncor Energy Foundation, please refer to the Canada Revenue Agency website and search for Suncor. Additional information: ROS – Engagement ROS – Performance data 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker ROS – CEO message 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities ROS – Corporate governance ROS – Economic impact ROS – Performance data ROS – Risk management ROS – Sustainability goals CRRR AR (pp. 59-69) 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior Our commitment to integrity and ethics is the foundation for our Standards of Business Conduct code and the company policy guidance and standards that reinforce it. Suncor’s purpose and values The Way We Do Business Standards of Business Conduct Statement 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics Our commitment to integrity and ethics is the foundation for our Standards of Business Conduct code and the company policy guidance and standards that reinforce it. Suncor’s purpose and values The Way We Do Business Standards of Business Conduct Statement Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 113 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change GRI and SASB disclosure index SASB code GRI code Description Response, link or additional information Governance 102-18 Governance structure ROS – Corporate governance MPC – Schedule B: Corporate Governance Summary (p. B-1) 102-19 Delegating authority MPC – Schedule B: Corporate Governance Summary: Risk Oversight (pp. B-8 to B-9) Additionally, a Strategic Issues Management Process is in place to effectively manage our strategic issues. The process identifies, monitors and manages key environmental, economic and social issues most critical to our business and our external stakeholders and sets up a governance system to oversee the management of the issues. EM-EP-530a.1 102-20 Discussion of corporate positions related to ROS – Corporate governance EM-RM-530a.1 government regulations and/or policy proposals that We have several senior leadership positions whose roles include address environmental and social factors affecting sustainability oversight in the organization, including but not limited to: the industry • chief sustainability officer (directly reports to the CEO) • general manager, sustainability • general manager, Indigenous & community relations 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, ROS – Engagement environmental, and social topics ROS – About our report MPC – Schedule B: Corporate Governance Summary, Stakeholder Communications and Shareholder Engagement 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its AIF – Directors and executive officers (pp. 74-79) committees 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body MPC –Schedule C: Position description for independent board chair (p. C-1) 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body MPC – Schedule B: Corporate Governance Summary (pp. B2 to B3) MPC – Schedule C: Position description for independent board chair (p. C-1) MPC – Schedule E: Board Terms of Reference (p. E-3) 102-25 Conflicts of interest MPC – Schedule B: Corporate Governance Summary – Conflicts of Interest (pp. B-14 to B-15) 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, MPC – Schedule E: Board Terms of Reference – values, and strategy Part IV: Mandate of the Board of Directors (pp. E-4 to E-5) 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body MPC – Schedule B: Corporate Governance Summary – Orientation and Continuing Education (pp. B-13 to B-14) ROS – Corporate governance Additionally, our Board of Directors receives periodic reports from our chief sustainability officer. The Environment, Health, Safety & Sustainable Development committee of the board also receives quarterly updates and stewardship on our priority sustainability issues. 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body's The board completes an annual self-evaluation. performance MPC – Schedule B: Corporate Governance Summary – Annual Evaluation Process (pp. B-5 to B-6) Specific information about topics reviewed and action plans that are developed are confidential and not reported. 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental, The board oversees Suncor’s Enterprise Risk Management program. and social impacts MPC – Schedule B: Corporate Governance Summary – Risk Oversight (pp. B-8 to B-9) Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 114 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change GRI and SASB disclosure index SASB code GRI code Description Response, link or additional information 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes The board oversees Suncor’s Enterprise Risk Management program. MPC – Schedule B: Corporate Governance Summary – Risk Oversight (pp. B-8 to B-9) 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social The board oversees Suncor’s Enterprise Risk Management program. topics MPC – Schedule B: Corporate Governance Summary – Risk Oversight (pp. B-8 to B-9) 102-32 Highest governance body's role in sustainability Our Executive Leadership Team, including the CEO, review and reporting approve this report before publication. 102-33 Communicating critical concerns Issues of concern are elevated through the Strategic Issues Management Process to a senior leadership governance body. The Environment, Health, Safety & Sustainable Development committee of the board also reviews the effectiveness to which we achieve objectives pertaining to the environment, health, safety and sustainable development. This committee also receives a quarterly update and stewardship on our priority sustainability issues. 102-34 Nature and total number of critical concerns Throughout 2019, key issues remained focused on climate change, water and engagement activities with local stakeholders and Indigenous communities. In-depth discussions, goal setting and initiatives to address these issues have been ongoing and will continue to evolve. ROS – About our report 102-35 Remuneration policies MPC Board of Directors Compensation and Executive Compensation, (pp. 15-51) 102-36 Process for determining remuneration MPC Board of Directors Compensation and Executive Compensation, (pp. 15-51) 102-37 Stakeholders involvement in remuneration MPC Advisory Vote on Approach to Executive Compensation (p. 14) Stakeholder engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Our stakeholders include: • Indigenous Peoples • landowners and local community residents • trappers • shareholders • all levels of government • regulators • non-government organizations and environmental groups • community investment partners • business groups • customers and suppliers • employees ROS – Engagement EM-MM-310a.1 102-41 Percentage of active workforce covered under 31.6% collective-bargaining agreements ROS – Performance data EM-MM-310a.2 Number and duration of strikes and lockouts No work stoppages occurred in the reporting year due to strikes or lockouts 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders ROS – Engagement 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement ROS – Engagement Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 115 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change GRI and SASB disclosure index SASB code GRI code Description Response, link or additional information 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised ROS – About our report ROS – Indigenous relations ROS – Personal and process safety ROS – Water stewardship CRRR Reporting practices 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial AR (p. 28-30) statements 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries ROS – About our report ROS – Performance data 102-47 List of material topics ROS – About our report 102-48 Restatements of information Re-statements of information and associated justifications provided in earlier reports can be found in the footnotes of the 2020 Report on Sustainability, which support the performance data table. 102-49 Changes in reporting Significant changes from previous reporting periods in scope, boundary or measurement methods can be found in the 2020 Report on Sustainability notes supporting our performance data table. 102-50 Reporting period Jan. 1 – Dec. 31, 2019 (unless otherwise stated) 102-51 Date of most recent report July, 2020 102-52 Reporting cycle Annual 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 1-866-SUNCOR-1 (1-866-786-2671) or email us at sustainability@suncor.com 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the ROS – About our report GRI Standards 102-55 GRI content index The GRI content index is included in the appendix to Suncor’s 2020 Report on Sustainability or is available for download on sustainability.suncor.com 102-56 External assurance An independent third-party has provided assurance on selected key performance indicators for our Report on Sustainability. The assurance report and indicators that were reviewed can be found in the appendix to Suncor's 2020 Report on Sustainability or is available for download on sustainability.suncor.com Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 116 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change GRI and SASB disclosure index SASB code GRI code Description Response, link or additional information Management approach 103-1 Management approach for material topics Our management approach to material sustainability 103-2 priorities is represented in the following sections of our 103-3 2020 Report on Sustainability: • CEO message • Corporate governance • Engagement • Economic impact • Personal and process safety • Supply chain sustainability • Inclusion and diversity • Climate change • Water stewardship • Tailings management • Air quality • Land and reclamation • Biodiversity • Indigenous relations Economic 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed ROS – Economic impact ROS – Performance data 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and ROS – CEO message opportunities due to climate change CRRR CDP Climate – C2 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other AR (pp. 117-120) retirement plans 201-4 Financial assistance received from government Federal (Canada) and Provincial Government funding is publicly reported and available through the Office of the Commissioner of Lobbying of Canada. Additional information: ROS – Engagement ROS – Performance data 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported ROS – Economic impact ROS – Community investment ROS – Supply chain ROS – Social goal 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts ROS – Economic impact ROS – Community investment ROS – Supply chain ROS – Social goal 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers ROS – Economic impact ROS – Supply chain ROS – Performance data Anticorruption 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption Suncor’s Standards of Business Conduct AIF (p. 68) Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 117 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change GRI and SASB disclosure index SASB code GRI code Description Response, link or additional information EM-EP-510a.2 205-2 Description of the management system for ROS – Risk management EM-MM-510a.1 prevention of corruption and bribery throughout Suncor’s Standards of Business Conduct the value chain Suncor’s Supplier Code of Conduct Suncor’s Prevention of Improper Payments policy guidance & standard Anticompetitive behaviour 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, Suncor’s Standards of Business Conduct anti-trust, and monopoly practices Suncor’s Supplier Code of Conduct Suncor’s Prevention of Improper Payments policy guidance & standard No regulatory enforcement actions were initiated for anticompetitive conduct against Suncor in 2019. Suncor’s business code of conduct provides that Suncor shall in the conduct of its business (a) avoid all practices and activities that are a violation of any provision of competition law, and (b) support and encourage the maintenance of a competitive economy. Greenhouse gas emissions EM-EP-110a.1 305-1 (1) Gross global Scope 1 emissions 21,432,135 tonnes CO2e EM-RM-110a.1 (2) Percentage methane 1.2% EM-MM-110a.1 (3) Percentage covered under emission-limiting 100% regulations Provincial and federal emission-limiting regulations were effective in 2019. Additional information: ROS – Performance data CDP Climate – (C7) EM-EP-110a.2 305-1 Breakdown of gross global Scope 1 emissions: 21,432,135 tonnes CO2e EM-RM-110a.2 OG6 (1) Flared hydrocarbons 594,681 tonnes CO2e EM-MM-110a.2 (2) Other combustion 17,310,737 tonnes CO2e (3) Process emissions 1,594,379 tonnes CO2e (4) Other vented emissions 13,286 tonnes CO2e (5) Fugitive emissions 293,631 tonnes CO2e (6) Others 1,625,420 tonnes CO2e Additional information: ROS – Performance data CDP Climate – (C7) 305-2 Scope 2 GHG emissions 1,344,557 tonnes CO2e Additional information: ROS – Performance data CDP Climate – (C7) 305-3 Scope 3 GHG emissions 1,607,134 tonnes CO2e Additional information: ROS – Performance data CDP Climate – (C7) 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 62 kg/bbl Additional information: ROS – Performance data CDP Climate – (C7) EM-EP-110a.3 305-5 Discussion of long-term and short-term strategy Additional information: EM-RM-110a.2 or plan to manage Scope 1 emissions, emissions ROS – Sustainability goals EM-MM-110a.2 reduction targets, and an analysis of performance CRRR against those targets CDP Climate – (C7) Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 118 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change GRI and SASB disclosure index SASB code GRI code Description Response, link or additional information Air quality EM-EP-120a.1 305-7 Air emissions profile: EM-RM-120a.1 (1) SO2 20,776 tonnes EM-MM-120a.1 (2) NOX 36,977 tonnes (3) VOC 21,301 tonnes (4) PM10 4,255 tonnes (5) H2S 54 tonnes Additional information: ROS – Air quality Canadian National Pollutant Release Inventory (NPRI) US Toxic Release Inventory EM-RM-120a.2 Number of refineries in or near areas of dense Suncor operates four refineries in Edmonton, Alta., Sarnia, Ont., populations Montreal, Que. and Commerce City, Colo. (USA). Additional information: ROS – Operations summary Energy EM-MM-130a.1 302-1 Energy consumption: 302-2 (1) Total energy consumed 346.31 million GJ (2) Percentage grid electricity 1.5% (3) Percentage renewable 0.105% Additional information: ROS – Performance data CDP Climate – (C8) 302-3 Energy intensity 0.99 GJ/bbl Additional information: ROS – Performance data CDP Climate – (C8) 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 485,927 GJ Additional information: ROS – Performance data CDP Climate – (C8) Water EM-EP-140a.1 303-1 (1) Total fresh water withdrawn 86,183 megaliters/yr EM-RM-140a.1 303-2 (2) Total fresh water consumed 50,440 megaliters/yr EM-MM-140a.1 303-3 (3) Percentage recycled: We calculate site-specific We calculate site specific average annual water recycling rate. average annual water recycling rate. (4) Percentage of each in regions with high or We do not currently operate in water stressed areas. extremely high baseline water Additional information: ROS – Water stewardship ROS – Performance data CRRR CDP Water – (W1) EM-EP-140a.2 306-1 Water discharges: (1) Volume of produced water and flow back generated 39,349 megaliters/yr (2) Water discharged (%) Not reported at this time (3) Water injected (%) Not reported at this time (4) Water recycled (%) Not reported at this time Additional information: ROS – Water stewardship ROS – Performance data CDP Water – (W1) Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 119 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change GRI and SASB disclosure index SASB code GRI code Description Response, link or additional information EM-MM-140a.2 Number of incidents of non-compliance associated There were no incidents of non-compliance associated with water EM-RM-140a.2 with water quality permits, standards, and quality permits, standards and regulations in 2019. regulations Additional information: CDP Water – (W2) ROS – Performance data 306-5 Water bodies affected by water discharges and/or CDP Water – (W2) runoff ROS – Water stewardship ROS – Tailings management Waste EM-MM-150a.1 Total weight of tailings waste, percentage recycled ROS – Tailings management EM-RM-150a.1 306-2 Waste by type: (1) Hazardous waste generated 1,049 thousand tonnes (2) Non-hazardous waste generated 1,371 thousand tonnes (3) Recycled, reused, or recovered 151.8 thousand tonnes Additional information: ROS – Performance data Biodiversity EM-EP-160a.1 Description of environmental management policies ROS – Risk management EM-MM-160a.1 and practices for active sites ROS – Biodiversity Suncor’s Environment, Health and Safety Policy EM-EP-160a.2 306-3 Number and aggregate volume of hydrocarbon There were 0 significant spills in 2019. Significant spills reflect EM-MM-160a.4 spills, volume in Arctic, volume impacting shorelines unplanned or accidental release of material whose impact off with ESI rankings 8–10, and volume recovered property takes longer than 7 months to remediate, or on property one year or more to remediate or reclaim. These could be into the environment or into a location that does not usually contain the material, as specified by geographical regulation. Additional information: ROS – Performance data EM-EP-160a.3 304-1 Percentage of (1) proved and (2) probable reserves Approximately 50% of Suncor’s oil sands lease areas are within or EM-MM-160a.3 in or near sites with protected conservation status or near caribou range boundaries as identified within the Recovery endangered species habitat Strategy for the Woodland Caribou, Boreal population (Rangifer tarandus caribou), in Canada (2012). The determination considers that the oil sands comprise 96.2% of the total hydrocarbon reserves in FY 2018 and includes two assumptions. 1. Although boreal caribou range does not strictly meet the considerations described for areas of protected conservation status or endangered species habitat, they should be considered here based on the boreal population of woodland caribou being listed as threatened under Canada’s Species at Risk Act (SARA). 2. Proven and probable reserves are distributed evenly across oil sands lease holdings determined to be within or near surface expression of caribou range boundaries. 304-2 Significant impacts of activities, products, and ROS – Performance data services on biodiversity ROS – Biodiversity ROS – Land and reclamation 304-3 Habitats protected or restored, total land reclaimed ROS – Land and reclamation ROS – Performance data OG4 Biodiversity assessment and monitoring ROS – Biodiversity Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 120 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change GRI and SASB disclosure index SASB code GRI code Description Response, link or additional information Diversity and equal opportunity 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees ROS – Inclusion and diversity ROS – Performance data ROS – Corporate governance MPC – Schedule B – Inclusion and Diversity (pp. B-3 to B-5) 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women ROS – Performance data to men Rights of Indigenous Peoples EM-EP-210a.3 411-1 Discussion of engagement processes and due In 2019, Suncor did not have any formal grievances reported EM-MM-210a.3 diligence practices with respect to human rights, regarding incidents of violations involving Indigenous Peoples. Indigenous rights, and operation in areas of conflict Suncor works with Indigenous communities to address issues and concerns related to the environmental and social impacts associated with our operations. Additional information: ROS – Indigenous relations Suncor’s Canadian Aboriginal Rights Policy Suncor’s Human Rights Policy Community relations EM-EP-210b.1 413-1 Discussion of process to manage risks and ROS – Indigenous relations EM-MM-210b.1 opportunities associated with community rights and interests Public policy 415-1 Political contributions As of June 1, 2016, Suncor no longer makes political contributions as a matter of policy. ROS – Performance data Compliance 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and ROS – Performance data regulations 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the No material fines or non-monetary sanctions were levied on social and economic area Suncor in 2019 for non-compliance with laws and regulations. Occupational health & safety EM-EP-320a.1 403-2 (1) Total recordable incident rate(TRIR) Not reported at this time EM-RM-320a.1 (2) Fatality rate 0.003 per 200,000 hours worked EM-MM-320a.1 (3) Near miss frequency rate Not reported at this time (4) Average hours of health, safety, and emergency Not reported at this time response training for (a) full-time (b) contract, and Additional information: (c) short-service employees ROS – Personal and process safety ROS – Performance data EM-EP-320a.2 Discussion of management systems used to ROS – Personal and process safety EM-RM-320a.2 integrate a culture of safety Suncor’s Journey to Zero throughout the exploration and production lifecycle Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 121 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change GRI and SASB disclosure index SASB code GRI code Description Response, link or additional information 403-1 Workers representation in formal joint managementSuncor’s workforce at Oil Sands, In Situ, Exploration & Production worker health and safety committees and Refining and Logistics that include operations are represented in formal joint management worker health and safety committees. These committees address health and safety concerns and provide guidance on required next steps. Additional information: ROS – Personal and process safety OG13 Process safety events ROS – Personal and process safety ROS – Performance data Operational safety EM-MD-540a.2 Percentage of (1) natural gas and (2) hazardous 66% liquid pipelines inspected Suncor’s licensed pipelines in Alberta comply with strict integrity practices in accordance with Alberta Energy Regulator (AER) and the Canadian Standards Association national standard (CSA Z662 Oil and Gas Pipeline Systems). As part of its Integrity Management Program, Suncor completes extensive inspections on its pipelines on a regular basis to ensure safe and reliable operation. These inspections include aerial patrols, watercrossing and slope monitoring, in-line inspections for corrosion and other anomalies and pipe excavations for examination and repair when necessary. EM-MD-540a.4 Discussion of management systems used to integrate ROS – Risk management a culture of safety and emergency preparedness Oil and gas specific metrics EM-EP-420a.3 OG2 Amount invested in renewable energy, revenue The total capital invested in renewable energy was $84 million CAD, generated by renewable with a total offset value of $1 million CAD generated. energy sales These figures reflect Suncor’s investment in the newly sanctioned Forty Mile Wind Power Project and GHG-offset related revenue. Additional information: ROS – Operations summary EM-EP-420a.4 Discussion of how price and demand for ROS – Economic impact hydrocarbons and/or climate regulation influences CRRR the capital expenditure strategy for exploration, acquisition, and development of assets EM-EP-000.A OG1 Production of: Total upstream and downstream production in 2019 was (1) oil 351.28 million BOE (2) natural gas Additional information: (3) synthetic oil ROS – Performance data (4) synthetic gas EM-EP-000.B Number of offshore sites ROS – Operations summary AR (pp. 20-24) EM-EP-000.C Number of terrestrial sites ROS – Operations summary AR (pp. 20-24) EM-RM-000.A Refining throughput of crude oil and other Downstream (Refining and Logistics) net production in 2019 was feedstocks 173.42 million BOE Additional information: ROS – Performance data Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 122 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change GRI and SASB disclosure index SASB code GRI code Description Response, link or additional information EM-RM-000.B Refining operating capacity Suncor operates four refineries. Operating capacities are in barrels-per-day: • Edmonton, Alta.: 142,000 • Montreal, Que.: 137,000 • Commerce City, Colo.: 98,000 • Sarnia, Ont.: 85,000 AR (pp. 20-24) OG3 Renewable energy generation ROS – Performance data OG5 Formation or produced water ROS – Performance data OG7 Drilling waste ROS – Performance data OG8 Fuel content ROS – Performance data Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 123 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change TCFD disclosure index The information in the disclosure table below provides linkages to TCFD aligned information and recommendations, fully or in part, within this report. TCFD Recommendation Report Section Governance Disclose the organization’s Describe the board’s oversight of climate-related risks • Board oversight of climate-related risks and governance around climate-related and opportunities. opportunities risks and opportunities. • Role of senior leadership Describe management’s role in assessing and • Business strategy for a changing energy future managing climate-related risks and opportunities. • Scenario planning Strategy Disclose the actual and potential Describe the climate-related risks and opportunities • Business strategy for a changing energy future impacts of climate-related risks and the organization has identified over the short, • Carbon policy and impacts on Suncor opportunities on the organization’s medium, and long-term. • Facility resilience to extreme weather events business, strategy, and financial planning where such information Describe the impact of climate-related risks and • Scenario planning is material. opportunities on the organization’s businesses, • A new 2°C scenario strategy, and financial planning Describe the resilience of the organization’s strategy, taking into consideration different climate-related scenarios, including a 2°C or lower scenario. Risk management Disclose how the organization Describe the organization’s processes for identifying • Climate-related risk management identifies, assesses, and manages and assessing climate-related risks. • Leadership in climate policy climate-related risks. Describe the organization’s processes for managing • GHG emissions and energy use climate-related risks. • Low-carbon innovation Describe how processes for identifying, assessing, and managing climate-related risks are integrated into the organization’s overall risk management. Metrics and targets Disclose the metrics and targets Disclose the metrics used by the organization to • GHG performance and energy use used to assess and manage assess climate-related risks and opportunities in line • Integrating our GHG performance goal relevant climate-related risks with its strategy and risk management process. and opportunities where such information is material. Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2, and, if appropriate, Scope 3 GHG emissions, and the related risks. Describe the targets used by the organization to manage climate-related risks and opportunities and performance against targets. Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 124 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change UNGC communication on progress Suncor joined the UNGC in 2001; we have integrated our commitment and implementation of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) principles throughout the report, and provided corresponding linkages to principles addressed in the table below. Principles Progress 1 Businesses should support and respect the Suncor has a corporate responsibility to respect human rights and to ensure we are not complicit in protection of internationally proclaimed human rights abuses. We seek to avoid infringing on the rights of others and strive to remedy harms human rights that occur as a result of our activities. Suncor’s commitment to respecting human rights is based on the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and is informed by the international law and standards. 2 Business should make sure that they are not We are guided by the following published policies and standards; Standards of Business Conduct, complicit in human right abuses Human Rights Policy, Stakeholder Relations Policy, Canadian Aboriginal Relations Policy and our Report on Sustainability. These documents explicitly cover the basic rules, standards and behaviours that all employees, contractors, suppliers and business partners must follow. We are committed to training and communicating our approach to human rights as part of the implementation of these policies. The president and chief executive officer of Suncor is accountable to the Board of Directors for ensuring policies are effectively implemented. All Suncor employees engaged in activities under Suncor’s operational control are responsible for the application of this policy. We encourage employees to raise concerns about suspected violations of our business conduct code without fear of reprisal with these teams/departments: • Management • Legal – compliance • Corporate Security • Human Resources • Internal Audit In addition, we have established an integrity hotline that is available 24/7 to employees, contractors and the public. Any issues of a serious nature are investigated by Corporate Security or Human Resources. The audit committee receives regular updates on Integrity Hotline activities. As per the code, the vice-president responsible for internal audit is charged with maintaining the Integrity Hotline and ensuring all alleged code violations are thoroughly investigated. 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of Federal labour standards are established under Part III of the Canada Labour Code, which sets out association and the effective recognition of minimum standards that federally regulated employers and employees must follow. Suncor’s commitment the right to collective bargaining to providing an environment free from harassment, violence, intimidation and other disruptive behaviours is outlined in Suncor’s Harassment and Violence Free Working Environment Policy. 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and As stated in Suncor’s Human Rights Policy, Suncor’s employment policies adhere to all applicable domestic compulsory labour laws and honour internationally accepted labour standards, including those concerning freedom of association and collective bargaining, non-discrimination, forced labour, and underage workers in the 5 The effective abolition of child labour workplace. A process for human rights impact assessment, undertaken regularly, is essential to identify, prevent, mitigate and remedy our potential impacts on human rights. 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Based on the published document The Way We Do Business, no matter where we operate in the world, Suncor is committed to ensuring our business dealings are fair, honest and ethical. That means holding everyone who works with us accountable for always conducting business free of corruption. All the countries where Suncor operates have anti-corruption laws that make it illegal to offer a payment, gift or other benefit to a public official or private party to improperly obtain favourable treatment. Suncor’s Supplier Code of Conduct addresses topics such as safety, human rights, harassment, bribery and corruption and confidential information, among others. It also reinforces our commitment to sustainable development and encourages our business associates to work with us to seek ways to reduce environmental impacts, support the communities in which we work and collectively achieve economic growth. Compliance with the supplier code of conduct is a standard term of all Suncor supply chain contracts. Suncor is a large organization with operations across different geographies and a workforce comprised of diverse demographics and ethnicities. By listening to our employees we are challenging assumptions, understanding barriers and being honest with one another as continue to create a great place to work for everyone. Our Equal Opportunity & Inclusion Policy and supporting Respectful Workplace Standard demonstrates our commitment to inclusion, equity and diversity. Suncor is a member of the Mining Association of Canada and annually reports performance on the Towards Sustainable Mining (TSM) protocols, including Preventing Child and Forced Labour. Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 125 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change UNGC communication on progress Principles Progress 7 Businesses should support a precautionary Our purpose is to provide trusted energy that enhances people’s lives, while caring for each other approach to environmental challenges and the earth. Suncor uses a risk-management and sustainability-driven approach to anticipate, prevent and mitigate 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to harm to health, safety or the environment as stated in our Environment, Health & Safety Policy. Suncor promote greater environmental responsibility proactively identifies and implements opportunities to: 9 Businesses should encourage the • develop energy in a way that enhances economic prosperity, promotes social well-being and development and diffusion of preserves a healthy environment environmentally friendly technologies • conserve energy • reduce water use • reduce air emissions • minimize land disturbance and accelerate reclamation • reduce waste • leverage a life-cycle approach • pursue technology improvements We are working to reduce the impact of our operations through scientific research and best management practices, while also partnering with peers to reduce the cumulative effects of development. We share in the global challenge to address climate change by harnessing technology and innovation to set us on a pathway to a low-carbon energy system. We aim to reduce total emissions intensity of the production of our oil and petroleum products by 30% by 2030. Our focus on GHG emissions intensity reductions is in these key areas: • implementing and improving energy efficiency • developing and deploying new technologies • investing in low-carbon power • moving to low-carbon fuels Suncor leads or participates in many technology studies and projects through Canada’s Oil Sands Innovation Alliance (COSIA) an alliance of companies representing 90% of oil sands production. By focusing on five environmental priority areas – greenhouse gases, land, tailings, water, and monitoring – COSIA brings people together to face specific environmental challenges to shorten innovation timelines across the oil sands industry. Through our Supplier Code of Conduct, we are clear that we expect our business associates to be aligned with our sustainable development approach and that we will work together to seek ways to reduce environmental impacts, support the communities in which we work and collectively contribute to economic growth. 10 Businesses should work against corruption Our Standards of Business Conduct Statement outlines that employees and contractors are to never offer in all it’s forms, including extortion or accept any type of improper payment, including bribes, kickbacks or facilitating payments. Also, to never make political or charitable donations on Suncor’s behalf outside of our corporate donation processes. Suncor’s Prevention of Improper Payments Policy states explicitly that Suncor personnel are prohibited from committing or using corporate funds, facilities or assets directly or indirectly for any illegal or improper purposes, including but not limited to bribery, kickbacks, or diversion to separate funds or companies for personal use or for the purpose of disguising such payments Through the published document The Way We Do Business, Suncor’s Business Conduct Code is outlined and no matter where we operate in the world, we are committed to ensuring our business dealings are fair, honest and ethical. Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 126 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change Advisories Forward-looking statements Suncor’s 2020 Report on Sustainability contains certain forward-looking statements and forward-looking information (collectively, “forward-looking statements”) within the meaning of applicable Canadian and U.S. securities laws. Forward-looking statements in Suncor’s 2020 Report on Sustainability include references to: expectations that responding and recovering from the effects of the pandemic and fostering resiliency will require cooperation and collaboration among all stakeholders and that our collective actions can have an enormous impact when we work together to find solutions; that we continue to take steps to reduce emissions across our facilities, and continue to work towards our 2030 commitment to reduce our total emissions intensity by 30% as well as developing more ambitious approaches to sustainability beyond our 2030 commitments; the expectation that the $1.4 billion investment in a new cogeneration facility at our Oil Sands Base will reduce GHG emissions from our Base Plant by approximately 25%, and the expected timeline of the project; the belief that the Forty Mile Wind Power Project, once in commercial service, will generate double-digit economic returns through zero carbon generation and the expected timeline of the project; the expectation that we can support reducing emissions by providing Canadians with lower carbon choices for their energy needs; the expectation that when we look back years from now, our collective action of working together to build a better future will stand out; the expectation of a 50-70% potential GHG reduction and lower water use through solvent-based processes; that expectation that Suncor will continually monitor and assess the impacts and benefits of our business, and effectively share these efforts; Suncor’s belief that a ‘zero incident’ workplace is achievable; the belief that the world needs action to reduce carbon emissions and avoid the worst effects of climate change; that Suncor is focused on finding reductions through improving our existing processes and developing new energy technologies; the belief that Suncor will continue to strengthen our relationships and build greater trust with Indigenous communities, to listen and learn from communities and find mutually beneficial ways they can become more involved in energy development; statements about encouraging our industry peers and suppliers to consider all elements of sustainability and joining Suncor to continuously improve; the expectation that our new cogeneration facility will help green Alberta’s electrical grid and avoid the equivalent emissions of 550,000 passenger vehicles per year; the expectation that the Forty Mile Wind Power Project will help green Alberta’s electrical grid and avoid the equivalent emissions of 85,000 passenger vehicles per year; the belief that energy transformation means being part of a global movement to low-carbon and no-carbon forms and that Suncor’s roles are for as long as there is global demand for oil, so supply that toil as cleaning and socially responsible as possible and to continue as a leading energy supplier while meeting the demand for lower carbon energy sources; the belief that as an integrated energy company, we’re well poised to be part of the transformation to future energy sources because we know all aspects of the business, and can apply our knowledge, collaborating with others, in many areas of research and development; the expectation that we are committed to change the way we think and act as an organization and build greater mutual trust and respect with the Indigenous Peoples of Canada through a goal that outlines four areas to focus on through 2025 and beyond where we can work together to advance greater participation of Indigenous Peoples and communities in energy development; the expectation that committed to water stewardship and we are currently developing a framework that will enable an approach to more meaningfully focus our future efforts on water; that Suncor shares the belief that businesses have a key role to play in the implementation of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UNSDGs) and that through our initiatives and activities our work contributes to all 17 goals and statements about how our activities contribute to the goals; the expectation that we move toward the UNSDGs about gender equality, water sanitation, modern and sustainable energy, sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all, resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable industrialization, sustainable consumption and production patterns and urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts; that Suncor’s board aims to have directors with a range of perspectives, insights and views on the issues affecting Suncor with a goal to maintain at least 30% gender diversity; that as part of its social innovation strategy, Suncor aims to build capacity for social innovation, including within Suncor; the belief that Suncor is well positioned to succeed due to the company’s advantages: financial strength, capital discipline, a highly efficient, tightly integrated suite of assets, an industry-leading long-life, low-decline oil sands reserves base, a sophisticated infrastructure and logistics network, strategic refineries and retail network, and our investment in sustainability, technology and innovation; the expectation that Suncor will host its second Academic Technology Forum virtually in October; the belief that engaging with others will help us find solutions to our shared challenges; that we plan to create economic opportunities for Indigenous groups through both service provision and equity partnership opportunities; the expectation that achieving high-level sustainability performance will demand effective collaboration and humility to learn with and from our partners in a way that spurs disruptive innovation and embeds sustainability throughout our extended ecosystem; the expectation that Suncor continues to evaluate the needs of our people to support them in focusing on their overall well-being and mental health; the belief that Suncor will further strengthen our process safety performance and culture, and is committed to investigating safety events so that we can take corrective actions to mitigate barriers and apply learnings across the enterprise; the belief that Suncor shows its commitment to building inclusion and belonging through raising awareness, listening, creating conversations, striving for fair treatment and building skills because we believe this will positively contribute to strong employee engagement and ultimately our business performance; that Suncor endeavours to become a leading sustainable energy supplier while maintaining Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 127 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change Advisories and improving air quality near all our operations, and that Suncor participates in programs to improve our air monitoring capability and understanding with the goal of reducing our air emission intensities over time; that selective catalytic reduction technology will be implemented as part of Suncor’s Oil Sands Base Plant Coke Boiler Replacement Project to achieve lower NOX emissions; the belief that water is a shared and precious resource that must be managed wisely using a balanced, integrated and sustained approach, and that it is important to find ways to continuously improve our water use efficiency (including limited water withdrawals and maximizing recycling and safe return) across our business units; the belief that Suncor is committed to water stewardship and are developing a robust framework that will more meaningfully focus our future efforts on water; the belief that the partnerships under the Water Technology Development Centre will allow operators to speed the development and implementation of new water treatment technologies, ultimately shortening the current eight-year timeframe required to field technologies and move them to commercial application; the belief that finding ways to treat fluid tailings quickly and cost-effectively is critical to improving our overall reclamation performance; the belief that another tailings pond will be removed from Base Plant operations in the next few years because of PASS technology; the plan to monitor and adaptively manage the Lake Miwasin PASS project for the next 15 years; the plan spread overburden or sand over the coke at tailings ponds to allow for the placement of topsoil and vegetation; the plan to incorporate stakeholder feedback into engagement plans for tailings treatment and enhancing how information about tailings is shared; the expectation that Suncor will continue to maintain the highest standards and play an active role in collaboration with industry partners, communities, stakeholders and investors; that Suncor is working to reduce the number of active tailings ponds and that three are advancing to closure; the belief that Suncor is working towards our strategic priority of continuing to manage our tailings across their life cycle in a strategic and environmentally responsible way; the expectation that opportunistic wetlands will be incorporated into Suncor’s reclamation tracking and monitoring programs and the belief that these reclaimed wetlands will result in landscapes similar to what existed before disturbance; the belief that Suncor has the opportunity and responsibility to help build a better future; the expectation and beliefs about community investment and the Suncor Energy Foundation (SEF) and the benefits Suncor expects community investment and SEF to deliver; about Suncor’s partnership with Community Foundations of Canada and its expansion of their pilot project work; the belief that technology and energy innovation has the potential to move emissions reduction from incremental to step change improvement; the expectation that Suncor continues to work toward the requirements to achieve the aims and objectives of the Paris Agreement; the expectation that Suncor continues to invest in performance improvements and be part of energy system transformation as these are critical to business resiliency and long-term shareholder and stakeholder value creation; statements and expectations about Suncor’s goal to reduce total GHG emissions intensity from the production of our oil and petroleum products by 30% by 2030; expectations about the impacts to Suncor’s GHG intensity due to government mandated production curtailment and COVID-19 impact on demand; the belief that all energy sources, including Canada’s oil sands industry, will have a role to play in contributing to a low-carbon future; the belief that there will be further opportunities for advancing energy efficiency involving Syncrude; the expectation that Suncor’s facilities are resilient to extreme weather events, including temperature extremes, hurricanes and icebergs and precipitation, droughts and wildfires; the estimated impact of our carbon price outlook; that opportunities are created due to the requirement for steam at crude oil extraction and processing facilities; expectations relating to technology and the expected timing of, impacts and benefits therefrom, including, amongst others, technology being designed, developed or tested by Suncor and its partners such as SAGD, Solvent+, EASE, ESEIEH® ES-SAGD, non-aqueous extraction, froth treatment , permanent aquatic storage structure, paraffinic froth treatment, and autonomous haulage systems; the impact of scale on renewable power and the belief that equipping wind and solar sites with battery storage could further improve effectiveness; the belief that Suncor will continue to meet the demand for liquid fuels while reducing carbon intensity and the reason for such belief; the belief that a price on carbon can be a key market mechanism to lower emissions while promoting low-carbon innovation; expectations relating to hybrid, plug-in hybrid and electric vehicles; the expectation that Suncor will continue to significantly invest in technology development and deployment, and digital technologies to optimize current assets and develop next-generation facilities; the expectation that, over the next year, Suncor expects to continue engagement with investors, including the Climate Action 100+ initiative; the expectation that Suncor will embed sustainable practices in our supply chain, create opportunities for cross-value chain strategic supplier engagement, and enable supply chain contributions to innovation; the belief that Suncor’s transition strategy is to steadily reduce the cost and carbon footprint of our base business while investing in new lower-carbon forms of energy, consumer products and services; the belief that, as a new decade begins with focused attention on pandemic-recovery efforts, business plans of leading companies must consider evolving trends and consumer preferences in order to be capable of thriving in a range of possible scenarios; the expectation that Suncor will continue to invest in strategic initiatives and technologies that support continuous improvement across our operations at both our Base Plant operations and Fort Hills such as value chain optimization and automation of mining and upgrading through autonomous haul systems; the belief that, for our in situ operations, Suncor is advancing opportunities and investments to reduce the energy intensity of the extraction process for our existing and future assets; the plan to replace coke-fired boilers with cogeneration units at our Oil Sands Base Plant which is expected to reduce GHG emissions intensity at our Oil Sands Base Plant by approximately 25% by replacing coke, a high-carbon fuel source with lower-carbon natural gas; the belief that Suncor has a strong portfolio of renewable power Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 128 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change Advisories development sites across Canada that will further reduce reliance on higher-carbon-intensive grids in regions like Alberta and Saskatchewan; the expectation that Suncor will continue to explore the opportunity to develop our first utility-scale solar photovoltaic facility in Alberta to complement our experience in developing, constructing and operating wind power projects; the belief that, as climate regulations are implemented across jurisdictions, renewable power will benefit from greater scale which can improve the technology, efficiency and economic viability; the expectation that demand in our downstream and marketing business will recover from the COVID-19 pandemic as governments lift stay-at-home restrictions and induce economic recovery through stimulus spending; the belief that equipping wind and solar sites with battery storage to optimize the facility’s integration could further improve effectiveness; the belief that long-term gasoline demand is expected to be moderated by efficiency improvements in internal combustion engines and increased uptake of biofuels, as well as hybrid and electric vehicles; the belief that our connection to a reliable source of crude oil combined with our investments in biofuels technology will allow us to continue to meet the demand for liquid fuels while at the same time reducing carbon intensity; the expectation that governments at all levels in Canada are seeking to diversify transportation fleets to use lower-carbon intensity fuels and, as a result, the transportation fuelling landscape is expected to change over time; the belief that, in the longer term, diesel will remain the predominant fuel in North America for heavy haulage, aviation, marine and rail, and we see demand growth with increasing economic activity as the world recovers from the COVID-19 pandemic; the belief that heavy-duty vehicle fuel efficiency standards and biodiesel blending will offset some of the economically driven demand growth; the belief that hybrid, plug-in hybrid and electric vehicles will remain cost-effective additions to the passenger vehicle fleet and will, along with fuel efficiency standards, contribute to moderating growth in global gasoline demand; the belief that cost, carbon competitiveness and consumer convenience mean liquid fuels will remain the primary fuel source in vehicle mobility for many years to come; the expectation that heavy haul trucks, aviation and marine fuels of the future will require advanced biofuel blending; the belief that a substantial amount of oil will be required for decades as the world gets on track to meets its climate ambitions; the belief that as the energy system transitions away from carbon intensive sources of energy, some level of hydrocarbons will continue to be needed for consumer product, transportation, agriculture and industrial uses; statements about Suncor’s three energy futures scenarios to 2050 and the expected impact of these scenarios on the energy market and Suncor; the expectation that sanctioned cogeneration and renewable power projects will to add another 1,000 MW of capacity to the power grid; the expectation that new 2°C scenario will continue informing Suncor’s long-term business planning and corporate strategy and allows us to understand what a pathway could entail to keep global temperatures from rising 2°C, or less, by 2100 compared with pre-industrial levels; statements, key insights and expectations about our new 2°C scenario; the expectation that Suncor will continue to advocate for environmental policies and regulations that help us address climate change, including supporting a broad-based price on carbon; the belief that we are committed to continuously improving energy management and reducing GHG emissions as part of everyday operational excellence; the expectation that, over the next decade our goal will be driving operational, energy and fuel efficiency improvements, accelerating the development and implementation of new technologies and encouraging the evaluation of potential low-carbon business opportunities; the expectation that Suncor will continue to work to close the gap in our goal progress over the next decade, realizing the need to continue seeking opportunities to collaborate with solutions-oriented partners in reducing emissions in the energy system; the belief that, in today’s complex and rapidly changing world, it will take new technologies and innovative thinking to further reduce our environmental footprint; statements and expectations about Suncor’s targeted emissions in four key areas; the belief that our biofuels have the potential to significantly reduce GHG emissions; and the expectation that LanzaJet will produce sustainable aviation fuel from ethanol from recycled pollution and waste products. Some of the forward-looking statements and information may be identified by words like “expected”, “anticipated”, “will”, “estimates”, “plan”, “scheduled”, “intended”, “believes”, “projected”, “indicates”, “could”, “focus”, “vision”, “mission”, strategy”, “goal”, “outlook”, “proposed”, “target”, “objective”, “continue”, “should”, “may”, “aim”, “strives”, “would”, “potential”, “committed”, “opportunity” and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements are based on Suncor’s current expectations, estimates, projections and assumptions that were made by the company in light of information available at the time the statement was made and consider Suncor’s experience and its perception of historical trends, including expectations and assumptions concerning: the accuracy of reserves and resources estimates; the current and potential adverse impacts of the novel coronavirus pandemic; commodity prices and interest and foreign exchange rates; the performance of assets and equipment; capital efficiencies and cost-savings; applicable laws and government policies, future production rates; the sufficiency of budgeted capital expenditures in carrying out planned activities; the availability and cost of labour, services and infrastructure; the satisfaction by third parties of their obligations to Suncor; the development and execution of projects; the receipt, in a timely manner, of regulatory and third-party approvals; assumptions relating to demand for oil, natural gas, distillates, gasoline, diesel and other energy sources; the development and performance of technology; population growth and dynamics; assumptions relating to long-term energy future scenarios; and Suncor’s carbon price outlook. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve a number of risks and uncertainties, some that are similar to other oil and gas companies and some that are unique to Suncor. Suncor’s actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied by its forward-looking statements, so readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on them. Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 129 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change Advisories Risks, uncertainties and other factors that could influence the financial and operating performance of all of Suncor’s operating segments and activities include, but are not limited to, changes in general economic, market and business conditions, such as commodity prices, interest rates and currency exchange rates (including as a result of demand and supply effects resulting from the COVID-19 virus pandemic and the actions of OPEC and non-OPEC countries); fluctuations in supply and demand for Suncor’s products; the successful and timely implementation of capital projects, including growth projects and regulatory projects; risks associated with the development and execution of Suncor’s major projects and the commissioning and integration of new facilities; the possibility that completed maintenance activities may not improve operational performance or the output of related facilities; the risk that projects and initiatives intended to achieve cash flow growth and/or reductions in operating costs may not achieve the expected results in the time anticipated or at all; competitive actions of other companies, including increased competition from other oil and gas companies or from companies that provide alternative sources of energy; labour and material shortages; actions by government authorities, including the imposition or reassessment of, or changes to, taxes, fees, royalties, duties, and other government-imposed compliance costs; changes to laws and government policies that could impact the company’s business, including environmental (including climate change), royalty and tax laws and policies; the ability and willingness of parties with whom Suncor has material relationships to perform their obligations to the company; the unavailability of, or outages to, third-party infrastructure that could cause disruptions to production or prevent the company from being able to transport its products; the occurrence of a protracted operational outage, a major safety or environmental incident, or unexpected events such as fires (including forest fires), equipment failures and other similar events affecting Suncor or other parties whose operations or assets directly or indirectly affect Suncor; the potential for security breaches of Suncor’s information technology and infrastructure by malicious persons or entities, and the unavailability or failure of such systems to perform as anticipated as a result of such breaches; security threats and terrorist or activist activities; the risk that competing business objectives may exceed Suncor’s capacity to adopt and implement change; risks and uncertainties associated with obtaining regulatory, third-party and stakeholder approvals outside of Suncor’s control for the company’s operations, projects, initiatives and exploration and development activities and the satisfaction of any conditions to approvals; the potential for disruptions to operations and construction projects as a result of Suncor’s relationships with labour unions that represent employees at the company’s facilities; our ability to find new oil and gas reserves that can be developed economically; the accuracy of Suncor’s reserves, resources and future production estimates; market instability affecting Suncor’s ability to borrow in the capital debt markets at acceptable rates or to issue other securities at acceptable prices; maintaining an optimal debt-to-cash-flow ratio; the success of the company’s marketing and logistics activities using derivatives and other financial instruments; the cost of compliance with current and future environmental laws, including climate change laws; risks relating to increased activism and public opposition to fossil fuels and oil sands; risks and uncertainties associated with closing a transaction for the purchase or sale of a business, asset or oil and gas property, including estimates of the final consideration to be paid or received, the ability of counterparties to comply with their obligations in a timely manner; risks associated with joint arrangements in which the company has an interest; risks associated with land claims and Aboriginal consultation requirements; the risk the company may be subject to litigation; the impact of technology and risks associated with developing and implementing new technologies; and the accuracy of cost estimates, some of which are provided at the conceptual or other preliminary stage of projects and prior to commencement or conception of the detailed engineering that is needed to reduce the margin of error and increase the level of accuracy. The foregoing important factors are not exhaustive. Suncor’s Management’s Discussion and Analysis for the first quarter of 2020 dated May 5, 2020 and its Annual Information Form, Form 40-F and Annual Report to Shareholders, each dated February 26, 2020, and other documents it files from time to time with securities regulatory authorities describe the risks, uncertainties, material assumptions and other factors that could influence actual results, and such factors are incorporated herein by reference. Copies of these documents are available without charge from Suncor at 150 6th Avenue S.W., Calgary, Alberta T2P 3E3, by calling 1-800-558-9071, or by email request to info@suncor.com or by referring to the company’s profile on SEDAR at sedar.com or EDGAR at sec. gov. Except as required by applicable securities laws, Suncor disclaims any intention or obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Reclamation Land is considered permanently reclaimed when landform construction and contouring, clean material placement (as required), reclamation material placement and revegetation has taken place. Land cannot be listed under permanent reclamation until revegetation has occurred which is reflective of the approved Reclamation and Revegetation Plans. Suncor has reclaimed a cumulative total of 48.2 hectares of wetlands and lakes. Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 130 Executive Table of About our Strategy and Our Climate Environment Communities Appendix summary contents report governance business change Advisories BOEs and conversions Certain natural gas volumes have been converted to barrels of oil equivalent (boe) on the basis of one barrel to six thousand cubic feet. Any figure presented in boe may be misleading, particularly if used in isolation. A conversion ratio of one barrel of crude oil or natural gas liquids to six thousand cubic feet of natural gas is based on an energy equivalency conversion method primarily applicable at the burner tip and does not necessarily represent a value equivalency at the wellhead. Given that the value ratio based on the current price of crude oil as compared to natural gas is significantly different from the energy equivalency of 6:1, utilizing a conversion on a 6:1 basis may be misleading as an indication of value. Cubic metres of oil equivalent are calculated on the basis of one boe to 0.159 standard cubic metres. As cubic metres of oil equivalent are based on a conversion involving boe, all values are subject to the same limitations as boe, noted above. Suncor Suncor Energy Inc. has numerous direct and indirect subsidiaries, partnerships and joint arrangements (“affiliates”), which own and operate assets and conduct activities in different jurisdictions. The terms ‘‘we’’, ‘‘our’’, ‘‘Suncor’’, or ‘‘the company’’ are used herein for simplicity of communication and only mean that there is an affiliation with Suncor Energy Inc., without necessarily identifying the specific nature of the affiliation. The use of such terms in any statement herein does not mean that they apply to Suncor Energy Inc. or any particular affiliate, and does not waive the corporate separateness of any affiliate. Partnerships The use of “partnership” throughout Suncor’s 2020 Report on Sustainability does not necessarily mean a partnership in the legal context. Suncor Energy Inc. | Report on Sustainability 2020 | 131 Suncor Energy Inc. 150 – 6 Avenue S.W. Calgary, Alberta, Canada T2P 3E3 T: 403-296-8000 suncor.com
