MOVING FORWARD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT May 2019 April 2020 CEO STATEMENT MOVING FORWARD Between alarming scientific reports and student sustainable consumption and production strikes our newsfeeds have been filled with patterns by producing long-lasting products climate and sustainability-related updates. using more sustainable materials and production Sustainability seems to resonate more than ever processes. and in the world of fashion it’s slowly becoming fashionable to be sustainable. Still times are surreal. The corona virus pandemic took us by ONE STEP AT A TIME surprise and changed our world, lives and not Through our achievements during the fiscal year least how we do business. (May 2019 April 2020), we have defined our own policies, expanded our Nordic Swan Ecolabel product range, achieved an almost 100% OEKOHOPE IN THE DARK TEX® STANDARD 100 certification ratio and got But hope can be found, even in the darkest of our first EIM score to measure water, energy and times. Crisis is a catalyst for change, and it forces chemical use in production. Also, we performed all of us to take a step back and reflect. As a result, academy training both live and digital to coach new business models are disrupting the industry our salespeople and customers in sustainable and challenging traditional ways of producing methods and decisions. faster than we could ever imagine or hope for. Improvements in products and operations are We have set ambitious goals and within the next flourishing and innovation within measurement two years we continue to focus on the following of impact and reporting tools creates new achievements: opportunities for brands to articulate their progress and build trust through transparency. It 1. In every new collection we want to transition all indicates that the fashion industry is moving from using conventionally produced cotton to forward, and at COZE AARHUS, we are both cotton fibres that are grown, processed and dedicated and proud to be a part of that change. certified according to organic standards. 2. In every new collection we want to transition NOTHING IS 100% SUSTAINABLE from using conventionally obtained wood pulp But there is no such thing as 100% sustainable used for viscose to viscose made of wood pulp fashion. Everything produced has an derived from certified renewed (FSC or PEFC) environmental and social price and we still have wood sources. a long journey ahead of us. That’s why COZE AARHUS has been supporting the UN Global 3. We want to find and incorporate an alternative, Compact since 2014 and continues to promote safe solution to plastic in terms of all packaging. initiatives that demonstrate our commitment to the 10 principles. We also continue to support Last year we were looking ahead, this year we are the UN Sustainable Development Goals and moving forward. are still devoted to achieving the SDG goal 8, which involves the promotion of decent work Risskov, June 2020 and economic growth through long-term partnerships with our suppliers. We also reaffirm our contribution to the SDG goal 12 of ensuring Cecilia Winther CEO, COZE AARHUS TABLE OF CONTENTS ABOUT COZE AARHUS CEO statement 3 Achievements 2019-2020 6-7 Goals 2019-2022 8 Who we are 10 COZE AARHUS framework 11 WHAT WE’RE DOING Sustainable Development Goal 8 13 Sustainable Development Goal 12 14 We are certified 17 Long lasting products 18 19 Responsible production 20 21 CSR ambassadors 24 25 Proud employees 26 27 3 THIS IS WHAT WE’RE DOING ACHIEVEMENTS 2019 2020 LONG-LASTING PRODUCTS Reclamation rate: 1,77% (last year 1,93%) Goal: Max. 1%. 24,4% of all cotton used in our productions was processed and certified according to organic standards. 1,2% of all viscose used in our productions was ECOVERO™. (We have changed some major productions by the end of this fiscal year and our overall target for the coming year is therefore to exceed 50% use of ECOVERO™ in our productions). LAURIE • 86,6% of the finished garments in the SS19 collection were OEKO-TEX® Standard 100 certified. • Almost 100% (99,3%) of the finished garments in the SS20 collection were OEKO-TEX® Standard 100 certified (smell issue from denim laundry detergent was discovered post-delivery). LIGHTBLUE • Our first denim line in lightblue obtained an EIM score of 18. ECHTE • 97,3% of the finished garments in the SS20 collection were OEKO-TEX® Standard 100 certified (silk shirts in two colours were not compliant) • 100% of our ECHTE denim obtained the Nordic Swan Ecolabel. RESPONSIBLE PRODUCTION • All active Tier 1 suppliers have signed our business terms with amfori BSCI “Terms of Implementation”. • Business contracts with Tier 2 fabric suppliers are now defined and ready to be implemented. • Additional policies within animal welfare, anti-corruption and child labour have been defined. These policies will also be integrated parts of our business contracts with both Tier 1 and Tier 2 suppliers. • Internal samples of all kinds are now being delivered without plastic packaging. 6 ACHIEVEMENTS 2019 2020 CSR AMBASSADORS • Educational LauRie Academy videos. • Four co-labs with influencers on ECHTE. • Sustainability training of sales staff. PROUD EMPLOYEES • Quarterly HR performance measuring and a follow-up to ensure that employees thrive. Latest employee satisfaction survey score in 2020: 8,5, with a KPI of 8,8 towards 2022. • Focusing on healthy work-life balance with WeFocus. • Internal exercise competitions. 7 GOALS 2019 2022 LONG LASTING PRODUCTS • Organic cotton. • FSC/PEFC certified viscose. • Safe packaging material alternative to plastic. RESPONSIBLE PRODUCTION • All active Tier 1 suppliers must be registered and audited by amfori BSCI. After the second audit, the overall score must be no lower than D, with a maximum of two E sub-scores. After the third audit, all sub-scores must be A-D. CSR AMBASSADORS • Our goal is to keep doing what we do to influence and educate salespeople, B2B customers and B2C consumers about more sustainable choices of materials, productions and business conduct. PROUD EMPLOYEES • By using a new online HR performance tool quarterly, we decided on an overall ambitious score of 8,8 out of a maximum of 10 as our new goal. We will continue to evaluate and focus on maintaining a positive work environment. 8 WHO WE ARE WHO WE ARE COZE AARHUS has more than 30 years of experience in the fashion industry, but we always want to do better. Therefore, we are constantly trying to improve the way we make products, work with suppliers and educate our staff. It is important to us to make our sales representatives, B2B customers and consumers proud CSR ambassadors. In 2018, we changed our company name from LauRie A/S to COZE AARHUS A/S. The new name illustrates that we are now a multi brand company with the SS19 launch of our new brand ECHTE. Our two brands target two different segments and have two different aesthetics but share a common belief in the beauty of quality-consciousness, great design and a perfect fit. COZE AARHUS keeps evolving, and in spring 2020 we introduced our new secondary line called lightblue. LAURIE Since 1987, LauRie has been working with the mantra ‘It’s got to feel right.’ For us, that means that every decision has to feel right – all the way from the beginning of a design to the finished product the consumer holds in her hands. This mantra manifests itself in the service we provide along the way, the partnerships we enter and the business ethics we stand for. Every year, LauRie offers two main collections and two smaller collections brimming with timeless styles. LauRie is made for the fashion-conscious mature woman. LIGHTBLUE At LauRie, we have introduced a secondary line called lightblue. lightblue was created for women on the go. Women who desire an uncomplicated and feminine look, with an eye for well-chosen details. lightblue, just like LauRie, has an uncompromising focus on fit. Women should be able to feel comfortable in lightblue for many hours every single day. We ensure that comfortable feeling by creating simple, well-designed and well-made styles that are able to fulfil multiple purposes. lightblue focuses on a small selection of exquisite designs that are easy to combine with LauRie’s wider range. ECHTE ECHTE’s mission is to make effortless and uncomplicated silhouettes that celebrate the feminine figure. ECHTE cares to meet and match the demands of the modern working woman offering comfortable and more sustainable key items. We want to make sure that women of many shapes and sizes can wear ECHTE – and feel great while doing it. ECHTE is designed to last and tailored to be worn all day long. That is why the ECHTE collections are filled with essentials undefined by seasonal trends. Some call them must-haves. We just call them the foundation of any wardrobe. 10 COZE AARHUS FRAMEWORK PURPOSE/VISION To bring well-being to women all over the world. MISSION Through perfect fits, high quality, sustainability and fashion we aim to provide women with clothing that have the potential of becoming wardrobe favourites. Therefore, we create clothing to make women look and feel their best. Sustainability is the starting point of everything we do. We will take the lead to create a “new normal” in the fashion industry where collections evolve from responsibility to Earth and people. Finally, we want to make our customers, partners and employees proud to be a part of COZE AARHUS. CSR Long lasting products Responsible production CSR ambassadors Proud employees VALUES We act responsibly to improve the environment and working conditions We act to avoid harmful chemicals in all we do We provide excellent quality and service We act with loyalty, honesty and respect We consider change as a constant and we create a working environment of proud commitment and well-being 11 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), otherwise known as the Global Goals, are a universal call to action to end poverty, protect the planet and ensure that all people enjoy peace and prosperity. At COZE AARHUS, we are committed to help achieve SDG goal 8 and SDG goal 12. SDG GOAL 8: DECENT WORK AND ECONOMIC GROWTH The SDGs promote sustained economic growth, higher levels of productivity and technological innovation. Encouraging entrepreneurship and job creation are key to this, as are effective measures to eradicate forced labour, slavery and human trafficking. With these targets in mind, the goal is to achieve full and productive employment and decent work for all women and men by 2030. (Source: United Nations Development Programme) HOW WE WORK WITH SDG GOAL 8 To achieve higher levels of economic productivity through diversification, technological upgrading and innovation, we are: • Using the newest washing technology that saves significant amounts of water in production and pushing for a broader use of this, e.g. the EIM-scores in lightblue denim and in Nordic Swan Ecolabel. • Using laser technology as a replacement for the traditional chemical and labour intense methods of denim finishing like manual scrapping and chemical spraying, e.g. jeans in lightblue. • Encouraging automated technology processes for the cutting, sewing and washing stage instead of relying solely on human hands, e.g. laser cutting and decoration and use of pocket automates in sewing. To protect labour rights and promote safe and secure working environments for all workers, we are: • A dedicated member of amfori BSCI that audits our production sites. We visit all our production sites at least once a year and work closely with the people in charge of following up on the audit results. • Committed to following and supporting the UN Global Compact and its ten principles. 13 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS GOAL 12: RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION The efficient management of our shared natural resources and the way we dispose of toxic waste and pollutants, are important targets to achieve this goal. Encouraging industries, businesses and consumers to recycle and reduce waste is equally important, as is supporting developing countries to move towards more sustainable patterns of consumption by 2030. (Source United Nations Development Programme) HOW WE WORK WITH SDG GOAL 12 To achieve the environmentally sound management of chemicals and all wastes throughout their life cycle, we are: • Always producing long lasting products that are not only defined by seasonal trends. • Only chosing STANDARD 100 by OEKO-TEX® certified materials in our productions. • By 2022, only using cotton fibre that is grown, processed, and certified according to organic standards. • By 2022, only using viscose derived from certified renewable wood sources. • By 2022, finding and incorporating an alternative biodegradable and safe alternative to plastic for all our packaging. To ensure that people have the relevant information and awareness for sustainable development and lifestyle, we are: • Educating and working together with various CSR ambassadors. • Sharing our knowledge via digital platforms (newsletters, brand websites, Instagram and Facebook) • Finding alternative ways to create communication and dialog with our consumers (E.g our podcast Wear your values) To support developing countries to strengthen their scientific and technological capacity to move towards more sustainable patterns of consumption and production, we are: • Focusing on safe and responsible working conditions through factory visits at least once a year. • Finding, creating and evolving new relations to business partners that share a common belief in the beauty of quality-consciousness. • Developing the best conditions for an innovative environment that will ensure dedicated and proud employees both externally and internally. 14 16 WE ARE CERTIFIED COZE AARHUS is certified, and we believe in certifications, as they are a way to communicate validated values – both downstream (among suppliers) and upstream (among customers). But what do we mean, when we say that we are certified? OUR GARMENTS CONTAIN NO HARMFUL CHEMICALS – VALIDATED BY OEKO-TEX® STANDARD 100 Our certification OEKO-TEX® Standard 100 ensures that the chemicals used to make our garments are compliant with the OEKO-TEX Standard 100. This goes for both materials as well as production processes like printing, dying and washing. Clothing contain residue from chemicals that are gradually released as the clothing is used. This chemical residue ends up inside the person wearing the clothes, because the skin is a susceptible organ. In 2016, COZE AARHUS were certified with the STANDARD 100 by OEKO-TEX® as the first women’s fashion brand in Scandinavia and is re-certified every year. This guarantees that OEKO-TEX® certified clothing from COZE AARHUS is kind to both skin and the environment. WE CHALLENGE OURSELVES – GOING FULL CIRCLE WITH THE NORDIC SWAN ECOLABEL The Nordic Swan Ecolabel is the official ecolabel of the Nordic countries. The Nordic Swan Ecolabel creates stricter sustainable solutions based on a life cycle assessment and an overall goal to reduce the environmental impact from production and from consumption of goods. Tough requirements in all phases of a product’s life cycle and continuously tightening of these requirements to create a sustainable development is the foundation of the Nordic Swan Ecolabel. What distinguishes the certification from other certifications is that it’s an official, independent thirdparty certification. It forces us and our factories to work harder, smarter and more environmentally friendly and to think critically on the way to a final product. We have proudly expanded our range of Nordic Swan Ecolabel denim and offered styles expecting to hold the certification on both LauRie and ECHTE in the coming season. 17 LONG LASTING PRODUCTS We believe that long-lasting products with comfortable fits are the best way to ensure a more sustainable consumer consumption. That is why the brands of COZE AARHUS focus on timeless and well-thought-out designs that are made to be loved and worn season after season. It’s our responsibility to create products, which to the best of our knowledge do not harm the people who work for us, the environment or the people who wear our garments. ACTIONS REACHING (ALMOST) 100% At COZE AARHUS, 100% of our chosen materials are OEKO-TEX® STANDARD 100 certified. Still, a small margin of products can fail to obtain the OEKO-TEX® STANDARD 100 certification in production, which can be due to occurrences like expired certificates, non-compliant production processes or merely not enough knowledge at the print houses, laundries and dye houses about harmful chemicals. It is a process for all parties involved. Last year 86,6% of the products in LauRie’s SS19 collection were OEKO-TEX® STANDARD 100 certified. This year however, we are proud to emphasize that almost 100% (99,3%) of LauRie’s SS20 collection is OEKO-TEX® STANDARD 100 certified, and that the last 0,7% was due to the change of a laundry detergent, which was OEKO-TEX® STANDARD 100, but caused smell in a denim product after wash. This was discovered in our final control after receiving of the garments, and OEKO-TEX® STANDARD 100 labels were removed. The result both indicates that colleagues in our design team have a sustainable mindset from beginning to end without sacrificing their creative freedom, but also that Tier 1 and Tier 2 suppliers through our common effort have become more aware of the many traps, but also advantages, of successful sustainable manufacturing. FABULOUS FABRICS In 2020, our Quality and Compliance Manager finished our complete material guide for COZE AARHUS. The guide shows the properties of the different types of fabrics we use in our productions as well as our motives behind the non-usage of certain materials. We are now working on implementing the material guide on our websites and in our overall communication across brands and channels. We believe the guide will become an important tool to help us communicate values for different pieces of garments in our collections and shed light on more sustainable material selections, both upstream and downstream. MEASURING IMPROVEMENT In spring 2020 we introduced the secondary line lightblue. The line consisted of multiple denim styles, which were tested and given an EIM (Environmental Impact Measurement) score. EIM is a new software that measures the environmental impact within the garment finishing industry. The software measures water, chemical and energy consumption and how they affect the ecological footprint. Depending on the EIM score, the processes of each style are classified as a high, medium or low impact process. We believe that the first step towards minimizing our impact is to clearly assess where the impact is greatest. With technology like EIM measurement we are now able to identify areas of improvement, define future actions and monitor our progress from collection to collection. We are satisfied that our first EIM score on lightblue is 18 which benchmarks as a low impact process. 18 RESULTS FOR 2019-2020 • More than 60% of our collections consist of styles that have long-lasting designs. • More than 50% of our turnover derives from daily sales of long-lasting designs as basic models from stock. • We have no minimum order quantity, which means that our customers are not forced to buy styles or sizes that do not match their needs. • 100% of COZE AARHUS’ chosen materials were OEKO-TEX® STANDARD 100 certified. • 99,3% of the products in our latest LauRie SS20 collection were OEKO-TEX® STANDARD 100 certified. • 97,3 % of the products in our latest ECHTE SS20 collection were OEKO-TEX® STANDARD 100 certified. • The reclamation rate was 1,77%. The previous quality issues of a major product program have been resolved, but there have still been garments from the previous supplier in the shops, which we have replaced throughout the year. The replacements reflect the reclamation rate considerably. • We succeeded in expanding our range of Nordic Swan Ecolabel denim and have offered styles with the certification on both LauRie and ECHTE in autumn 2020. • We continued to focus on choosing materials from close and/or local manufacturers to avoid trade barriers, long transport with high carbon emission and bribery in customs. • We never throw away or burn our clothes. To minimize waste, we created the web shop category “Last Chance.” If our styles do not find a happy owner there, we donate them to the Danish non-profit humanitarian organisation Brighter Horizons that seeks to help the most vulnerable women from the streets in Sierra Leone, or the Rehabilitation Centre for Victims of Torture in Kolding, Denmark. • Cartons used for packaging are still all made of recycled carton and the filling for the cartons is recycled paper. • All carton, plastic and paper wastage in our company is still being collected and recycled, which enables us to dispose of the waste at a low cost. GOALS 2019-2022 • Continuously produce collections where at least 60% of the products are designs that never go out of style. • 100% of COZE AARHUS’ chosen materials must be OEKO-TEX® STANDARD 100 certified. • 100% of all our products regardless of brand must be OEKO-TEX® STANDARD 100 certified or certified by the Nordic Swan Ecolabel. • A maximum reclamation rate of 1% to ensure a high-quality standard. • Only use cotton fibres that are grown, processed and certified according to organic standards. • Only use viscose derived from FSC or PEFC certified renewable wood sources. • Find and incorporate an alternative and safe solution to plastic in terms of all packaging. 19 RESPONSIBLE PRODUCTION Changing the fashion industry requires an effort from all of us. We must rethink every step of our supply chain – from choice of fabric to customer aftercare. We seek long-lasting partnerships with suppliers who share our vision of sustainability and transparency. We only collaborate with European suppliers who have the will to make their production processes more sustainable, who respect the environment and who live up to human and labour rights according to our Code of Conduct. It’s all about the willingness to improve and the positive change we can make together. To obtain the best knowledge and control of the manufacturing of our products, we strive to achieve value chain transparency on all levels, as we have come to learn that transparency throughout production plays an important role in enhancing a more sustainable behaviour. ACTIONS RAISING THE BAR Amfori BSCI is still our formal way of following and monitoring the working conditions in our production and ensuring that our producers follow human and labour rights that have been internationally proclaimed. We include the amfori BSCI “Terms of Implementation” in our business contracts with all our Tier 1 suppliers to ensure that they accept the foundation of our collaboration. With these terms, the producers sign and accept the amfori BSCI Code of Conduct. They also accept that their working conditions will be monitored and reported to us through third-party audits. This year we decided to dig deeper and include contractual terms with our Tier 2 fabric suppliers, as we nominate them ourselves. These contracts will be presented to all fabric suppliers before production start of SS21. Furthermore, by the end of the fiscal year, we managed to finalize our policies for animal welfare, anti-corruption and child labour. These will also be integrated parts of our business contracts with both Tier 1 and Tier 2 suppliers. END OF THE ROAD All off our active Tier 1 suppliers must be registered and audited by amfori BSCI. But an audit is still just a snapshot, which is why we prioritise collaborations with suppliers that like us seek out possibilities for improvements. Therefore, the goal of the audits is not only to evaluate our supplier’s overall compliance but also to identify progress and stimulate improvements. To make sure that we are moving forward together, the overall score of a supplier must not be lower than D after a second audit, with a maximum of two E sub-scores. After the third audit all sub-scores must be A-D, with a max. of one D-score. Hidden subcontracting is common in the fashion industry because the sub-contractors are not formally included in the immediate understanding of the supply chain and therefore often avoids compliance audits. That’s why we also started mapping our sub-contractors and expect them to evolve and comply just like our Tier 1 suppliers. In July 2019, one of our sub-contractors had a firsttime audit with an audit E-score. Afterwards, they failed to show willingness to improve critical required conditions. Even though we had experienced a great will to change and evolve beforehand, it 20 became clear that there was no longer room for further improvements, and we terminated a yearlong and otherwise satisfactory collaboration as a result. A LOCAL LENS In 2019, our Quality and Compliance Manager Kari Brandt became the Chairman of amfori Network Denmark. She will carry the position as Chairman for two years. In that time the network will facilitate regular meetings and workshops to support participants to increase their knowledge of social and responsible supply chain operations and to share information on good practices in the industry. Amfori Network Denmark provides members with practical assistance, establishes constructive dialogue with relevant stakeholders and brings expert guidance through a local lens. RESULTS FOR 2019-2020 • In the pursuit to reach our 2022 goal to find and incorporate an alternative, safe solution to plastic in terms of all packaging we took it even further and tested non-wrapped garments in our own warehouse to minimize our plastic consumption altogether. The testing consisted of two product groups and almost 700 items. Even though this test did not convince us that no packaging protection is the right way, we will continue to find new inspiration to minimize the use of plastic packaging. • COZE AARHUS’ salesmen samples, proto samples and size sets are now being delivered without individual plastic packaging. • COZE AARHUS’ Quality and Compliance Manager Kari Brandt carries the position as Chairman for amfori Network-Denmark the next two years and she continues her participation in a material/ CSR network among peers to contribute to constructive dialogue on social and responsible supply chain operations across the Danish fashion industry. • All active suppliers have signed our business terms with amfori BSCI “Terms of Implementation” as a part of the agreement and first step towards a registration in the amfori database. • Audit results: All audited suppliers, accounting for more than 90% of our productions, have scores better than D. Only one sub-contractor got an E-score. GOALS 2020-2022 • All active Tier 1 suppliers must be audited by amfori BSCI. After the second audit, the overall score must be no lower than D, with a maximum of two E sub-scores. After the third audit all sub-scores must be A-D. • We are pushing for two of our Portuguese Tier 1 suppliers to register in the amfori BSCI database. We have personally visited the high-level factories three times in 2019 and 2020 but persistently push for a future registration and audits conducted by amfori BSCI, even though we feel certain they will get satisfactory scores. 21 IF WE TALK THE TALK ... WE MUST WALK THE WALK CSR AMBASSADORS Whether you are just beginning to learn about sustainability in fashion or if you are a fashion-conscious veteran, it can be difficult to determine just what sustainability means within the context of fashion. Therefore, we define a CSR ambassador as an individual who is susceptible to learning more about sustainable manufacturing and consumption and excited to spread COZE AARHUS’ sustainable vision. We want to make sure that our salespeople, B2B customers and end consumers are informed and aware that they have numerous choices. Our CSR ambassadors help us do just that. It’s a butterfly effect. No one can do everything, but everyone can do something. ACTIONS GOING DIGITAL In 2019, we started LauRie Academy. An academy that focused on knowledge sharing and education of our salespeople and B2B customers. This year we developed the concept further and made it digital. The result was eight educational videos that made it possible for us to share our stories and make B2B customers feel equipped to inform and influence the end consumers about sustainability and hence make them CSR ambassadors. Doing it digitally made it possible to distribute the knowledge even further than the events in Aarhus, Copenhagen, Stockholm and Oslo, which were our starting points in 2019. ACHIEVING THE SDG’S This year we had the chance to nominate a young talent for UN Global Compacts first Young SDG Innovators programme. Our PR & Communications Coordinator was nominated and chosen and began a ten-month course in September 2019. During this accelerator programme she will learn how to develop innovative solutions and sustainable business models to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals. For the last several months she has been working on a specific challenge and designing initiatives that will advance our sustainable agenda in COZE AARHUS. IN EYE LEVEL Once again, we have initiated multiple co-labs with influencers who set focus on sustainable living and consumption from a personal point of view. We have chosen to collaborate with women in their 30s. Women that are curious about sustainable fashion but are on a journey towards a more sustainable wardrobe and everyday life themselves. We believe that an honest communication in eye level is the right way to influence and inspire potential consumers to begin their own sustainable journey. Furthermore, we keep communicating our sustainable practices on various social media platforms. Statements like #buylesschoosewell and #wearyourvalues are used across channels to encourage and inspire consumers to make better choices. We are experiencing an increasing curiosity in material selection, certifications, production methods and social standards, which will only further encourage dialogue between our consumers and our brands in the future. 24 RESULTS FOR 2019-2020 • Eight educational LauRie Academy videos. • Four different co-labs with influencers. • All members of our sales staff have participated in educational training on one specific topic twice a year when we have met prior to the selling season. Examples of topics are the ten principles of the UN Global Compact, the SDGs, the amfori BSCI initiative, certifications, materials or responsible production. • Consultant from Nordic Swan Ecolabel introduced sales staff to the certification at LauRie sales meeting SS20. GOALS FOR 2019-2022 Overall, it is still our impression that salespeople, B2B customers and end consumers have only limited knowledge about working conditions, environmental and health issues in the fashion industry, so we will keep up with the actions from the past years that focusses on dialogue, knowledge sharing and education. This is how we do that: SALESPEOPLE Through at least two meetings a year we will educate our salespeople on sustainable manufacturing, environmentally friendly materials and the impact of harmful chemicals in textiles. B2B CUSTOMERS We will influence our B2B customers through salespeople, academies, newsletters, flyers, booklets, collection guides and point of sale displays to make sure that they are equipped to inform and influence the end consumers about sustainability in everyday life. END CONSUMERS We will reach the end consumer through social media, our own websites/online stores, newsletters, influencer co-labs, events and CSR statements on hangtags and garments. We will keep on encouraging dialogue and questions to make them feel comfortable enough to make more informed choices in the future. 25 PROUD EMPLOYEES Our employees are our most important asset. Their skills, enthusiasm and dedication are essential to our success and our impact as a company. COZE AARHUS strives to be an attractive workplace for everyone in the COZE AARHUS family and seeks to give everyone the opportunity to develop both professionally and personally. Why? Because employee development is key to their personal success as well as our business success. We want each employee at COZE AARHUS to be both part and proud of the value creation of our purpose, our vision and of our CSR-work. Our employees are our main CSR ambassadors in their everyday lives. ACTIONS A SAD GOODBYE The coronavirus pandemic has had major repercussions for the entire fashion industry. Right now, companies across the sector are struggling to stay afloat, while millions of workers in garment factories around the world fear for their livelihoods. Unfortunately, we are not unmarked by the events either. In spring 2020, we had to dismiss several valuable co-workers as a result of a declining revenue in this time of crisis. BENCHMARKING SATISFACTION At COZE AARHUS we conduct employee performance evaluations every three months, using an HR online performance tool, where all employees must answer questions about how they thrive at work. Quarterly, departmental follow-up assessments take place after each performance score, and individual development plans for our employees are formed once a year. Our goal is to reach an overall satisfaction score of 8,8 out of 10 across departments in COZE AARHUS. It is a rather ambitious goal as the industry benchmark is below 8. The latest result was 8,5. The score has improved slowly, but steadily throughout the year. BRAIN TRAINING To focus on the wellbeing of our employees and a healthy work-life balance at COZE AARHUS, we initiated a mental health project with WeFocus. The initiative had a span of three months and the purpose was to obtain new mental habits, do brain training every day, learn how to hold constructive breaks and execute on specific individual efforts that would result in balance, energy, focus and performance enhancement. It contributed to a lot of valuable discussions on what a healthy work-life balance really means within COZE AARHUS and more specifically in each department. We continue to offer employees flexible working hours to accommodate and respect employees’ family life. Our IT set-up makes it easy and convenient for employees to work from home which enhances more flexibility at work. This has shown to also be constructive during the time of the corona virus outbreak. 26 BY THE BOOK This year we chose to update and refresh our employee handbook. We believe that a thorough and representative handbook can make a new employee feel more equipped to handle his or her day-today work. Furthermore, it can also be crucial to building a positive workplace culture and align values and expectations from day one. The sustainable framework is the core of everything we do and every decision we make. Therefore, the handbook will give future employees an important insight into our values and vision and hopefully, they will be as proud and excited to spread the sustainable agenda of COZE AARHUS’ as we are. THE NEXT GENERATION Last but not least we have continued to encourage students to work with our sustainable framework in various assignments. We have begun a six-month internship with a student in our E-commerce department and have welcomed five international students from the career coaching program Tange Gruppen for a nine-week internship. RESULTS FOR 2019-2020 • Latest employee satisfaction survey score in 2020: 8,5, with a KPI of 8,8 towards 2022. • Flexible working hours to accommodate and respect employees’ family life. • Focusing on the wellbeing of our employees and a healthy work-life balance in COZE AARHUS with We Focus tool. • Internal exercise competitions that inspire and motivate our employees at COZE AARHUS headquarters. GOALS FOR 2019-2022 • An overall employee satisfaction score of 8,8 out of 10 across departments in COZE AARHUS. 27 SUSTAINABILITY NEVER GOES OUT OF STYLE
