Contents CEO’s review. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 Materiality. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 Aspect boundaries. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 Management of corporate responsibility. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7 Stakeholder interaction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8 CONTRIBUTOR TO A SUSTAINABLE SOCIETY Responsible journalism. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10 Social projects. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13 HIGH-QUALITY SERVICE PROVIDER Digital responsibility . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16 Responsible marketing. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18 RESPONSIBLE PARTNER Environmental impacts of operations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21 Responsibility throughout the supply chain. . . . . . . . . . . 25 Transparency and ethics in business. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28 GOOD EMPLOYER Equal and diverse work community. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31 Developing competence and well-being. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34 Calculation and data collection principles for CR reporting. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38 Contact information. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38 Environmental and employee-related figures for 2019. . . 39 GRI index. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42 Global Compact index. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46 2 From the President and CEO Alma Media’s task is to build sustainable environmental dialogue with key suppliers. growth for individuals, companies and We started using zero-emission electricity society. at all of our properties in Finland during the year under review. The international nonOur sustainability efforts are based on the profit CDP gave Alma Media a Leadershipcommitment of our company and employees level rating of A– in its Climate Change to operate in a socially, economically, Disclosure 2019 rating. This means that ecologically and culturally sustainable Alma Media is currently one of the leading manner. As a media company, our corporate companies in the global media sector when it responsibility has significant impacts on comes to mitigating climate change. society either directly or indirectly. The themes of our sustainability efforts are Alma Media had its fifth consecutive year of mitigating climate change, creating a better improved results in 2019. This provides us future for young people and promoting good with good financial resources for producing working life. high-quality content and services. A responsible Alma Media could not exist Climate change is one of the greatest without the committed and uncompromising challenges of our time and a significant Alma Media employees in 11 European factor of uncertainty. As a media company, countries. Together we are building a we can promote more sustainable choices participatory company culture, investing in by companies and consumers by increasing diversity and the quality of managerial work awareness and understanding of how and emphasising a high standard of ethics different decisions affect the environment. in business. We are committed to supporting Through our digital services, we can also help the universally accepted principles in Digital media and our digital services reach a when being committed to high-quality our customers make responsible choices in the areas of human rights, labour, the larger audience than traditional media, which journalism means having a significant major decisions regarding housing, cars and environment and anti-corruption laid out in means that our impact on the society around responsibility for providing accurate, timely working life, for example. the United Nations Global Compact initiative. us is expanding. As business continues to and relevant information to help people, become increasingly digital, defining our businesses and society get through the crisis. We strive to actively reduce CO2 emissions. In marketing, our goal is to not only provide a corporate responsibility requires us to assess In addition to being a reliable source of news, Our efforts in this area are guided by reliable and safe advertising environment but new kinds of impacts. we will also do everything we can as a media long-term science based targets (SBT). Our also increase our customers’ understanding company to help our communities through greenhouse gas emissions have decreased of responsibly conducted digital marketing. As I write this in March 2020, we have entered this difficult time. Our large audience gives us as a result of the digital transformation of our In this age of data, the transparent and secure a highly exceptional period as the spread of the opportunity to bring together those who business and we have also made determined processing of the information we collect on the coronavirus poses a threat to the normal can help and those who need help. efforts to improve the material efficiency our users and customers is an increasingly functioning of individuals, companies and of our printing facility and increased our important competitive factor for Alma Media. society. This is precisely the kind of moment Kai Telanne 3 Materiality Alma Media applies the materiality principle in its sustainability reporting, focusing on the impacts and corporate responsibility aspects that are assessed to be the most significant. Alma Media updated its materiality analysis in 2016. The materiality analysis was based on a comprehensive stakeholder survey, individual interviews and an industry analysis. Some adjustments have been made in the subsequent years, including changes to the names of the responsibility Contributor to High-quality Good Responsible themes in the materiality analysis. a sustainable service provider employer partner society Material: Strategic: Operational: financially significant in the short/ significantly affects the capacity to implement significant for other reasons, medium term the strategy in the medium/long term but not material or strategic Aspects that are Responsible Responsible unique to the journalism marketing media sector Aspects that have particular Digital consequences Social projects responsibility for the media sector Aspects that are common to all Developing Responsibility Transparency and Equal and diverse Environmental industries competence and throughout the ethics in business work community impacts well-being supply chain 4 Aspect boundaries As a media company, Alma Media’s most ensuring the availability of human resources in its sustainability reporting. In its reporting The aspect boundaries and GRI aspects significant sustainability impacts are related and the systematic development of employee on responsible journalism, however, the used in Alma Media’s sustainability reporting to the appropriate handling and management competence and well-being are essential Group still applies the GRI G4 framework, are presented in the table on the next page. of user data as well as the impacts of the from the perspective of maintaining Alma because the Global Reporting Initiative More specific aspect boundaries concerning company’s online services and published Media’s competitiveness. has yet to publish updated guidelines for individual GRI aspects are indicated where media content on customers and society. As reporting on the sustainability impacts of the aspect in question is discussed in the text the company’s business is built on its highly Alma Media uses the GRI Standards of the journalism. of the report. professional and motivated employees, Global Reporting Initiative, where applicable, 5 Responsibility themes and areas Responsibility promise GRI aspects Boundaries CONTRIBUTOR TO A SUSTAINABLE SOCIETY Responsible journalism We will strengthen our media outlets’ reputation as Responsible journalism: Alma Media’s own operations (all media) Social projects the most trusted media brands and the number one Significant funding and other support received Society brands in their respective areas and communities, from non-governmental sources Customers and we will create long-term commitment among our Content production customers. Content sharing Political support Social projects: Media skills HIGH-QUALITY SERVICE PROVIDER Responsible marketing We develop our offering with a long-term view in Responsible marketing: Alma Media’s own operations Information security and data protection order to produce safe, accessible and easy-toIncidents of non-compliance concerning Customers use services and to deliver a first-class customer marketing communications experience for consumers and advertisers. Information security and data protection: Substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data RELIABLE PARTNER Transparency and ethics in business We develop the transparency and responsibility of our Transparency and ethics in business: Alma Media’s own operations Responsibility throughout the supply chain operations in dialogue with our stakeholders and by Direct economic value generated and distributed Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Environmental impacts of operations anticipating regulatory changes. Financial assistance received from government Partners and the supply chain Corruption and anti-competitive behaviour Non-compliance with laws and regulations Responsibility throughout the supply chain: Supply chain Environmental impacts of operations: Materials Energy Emissions Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken RESPONSIBLE EMPLOYER Equal and diverse work community We will enhance Alma Media’s employer image and Equal and diverse work community: Alma Media’s own operations Developing employee competence develop the expertise of our employees in response Diversity of governance bodies and employees and well-being to the competence needs required by the digital Non-discrimination transformation. Developing competence and well-being: Employment Occupational health and safety Developing competence 6 Management of corporate responsibility The most significant sustainability impacts industry. The development of corporate • Contractual terms and terms of sale conapproving the company’s statement of nonof Alma Media’s business are related to the responsibility at Alma Media is also guided cerning the advertising customers of Alma financial information. The Board of Directors media content published by the company by the company’s policies, guidelines and Media’s media sales discusses the corporate responsibility targets (responsible journalism) and digital services commitments as well as guidelines defined • The Board of Directors’ diversity policy and action plan as part of the company’s (digital responsibility and responsible by external parties that are significant to the • The company’s climate targets approved strategy. The Group Executive Team manages marketing). In accordance with the company’s operations. by the Science Based Targets initiative the development of responsibility, taking company’s purpose statement, the objective the changing business environment into of its responsibility programme is to boost The company’s internal control, risk Guidelines created by external parties: consideration. The Group Executive Team the sustainable growth of individuals, management and governance are described • The Council for Mass Media Guidelines for approves the strategic guidelines and targets companies, and society by taking advantage in more detail in the Corporate Governance Journalists and basic agreement of the responsibility programme as well as of the strengths of a digital media company. Statement and the Report by the Board of • The marketing rules of the International major corporate responsibility projects and Directors for 2019. Chamber of Commerce monitors their implementation. Alma Media’s sustainability efforts are also • Principles concerning good marketing guided by general principles that include The internal policies, guidelines and practices Business unit management and certain the company’s core values as well as the four commitments that guide Alma Media’s • Europe-wide self-regulation of targeted Group-level key employees are responsible UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) responsibility: online advertising (OBA self regulation) for the practical implementation of the that are the most relevant to Alma Media’s • Code of Conduct • Guidelines by the IAB digital marketing responsibility programme. They are supported business: health and well-being (SDG 3), • The corporate responsibility programme network by the Corporate Responsibility Manager and quality education (SDG 4), decent work and and its targets • The UN Global Compact initiative and the the Corporate Communications function, economic growth (SDG 8), and peace and • Disclosure policy UN Sustainable Development Goals which operate under Alma Media’s Senior justice (SDG 16, related to the media’s role as • Information security policy Vice President of Communications and Brand. a social institution). • Tax policy MANAGEMENT OF RESPONSIBILITY They support the units and functions in the • Investment and financing policy AT ALMA MEDIA achievement of responsibility targets, project THE GENERAL PRINCIPLES • Procurement policy Alma Media’s Board of Directors and Group implementation and communications. APPLIED IN THE MANAGEMENT OF • Equality and non-discrimination principles Executive Team monitor the development of CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY and equality and diversity plans corporate responsibility regularly. The Board The management of the various areas of Alma Media develops its responsibility in • Career development principles of Directors discusses corporate responsibility corporate responsibility at the business compliance with the legislation governing • Remuneration principles and remuneration matters at least twice a year, when assessing function level is discussed in this report in business activities and the media policy the risks related to the business and when the section concerning each area. 7 Stakeholder interaction Interaction with various stakeholders is a natural and important part of Alma Media’s business. As a media company, it is important for Alma Media to maintain its independence and impartiality with respect to various stakeholder interests. Key topics in stakeholder interaction Interaction channels and Alma Media’s response Readers and online users, Responsible journalism, reliability and quality of media content Long-term multi-channel development of content and services, technology purchases, consumers Data protection and information security responsible data management, developing employee competence, customer contacts and Supporting pluralism in society and democratic development feedback, customer and reader satisfaction surveys, social media, events, making editorial work more transparent Advertisers, corporate High-quality and secure advertising environment, service reliability, monitoring Long-term service development, technology purchases, developing employee competence, customers and management of advertising in the digital operating environment, data customer contacts and feedback, training and events for advertisers protection and information security, advertisement visibility and brand safety Investors, shareholders, Building sustainable business growth and creating value by leveraging the Regular and ongoing disclosure obligations including interim reports, financial statements bulletin, analysts opportunities presented by the digital transformation. report by the Board of Directors and financial statements, Corporate Governance Statement and Market environment and competitive landscape, objectives, reporting, strategy stock exchange releases. General Meeting of Shareholders, investor, analyst and media conferences and financial position and events, the Alma Media website, Carbon Disclosure Project reporting, responsibility reporting Employees Competence development and work ability, occupational well-being and safety, Training of supervisors and subordinates, competence development plans and one-totarget setting, ethical guidelines and issues, security, values and business one discussions, team meetings, employee surveys, unit-level equality, diversity and nonpractices, increasing trust, workers’ rights, equal and fair work community discrimination plans, Intranet, Teams channels, employee events, occupational health care, discussions with employee organisations, management forums Service producers Fair and equal treatment, supplier requirements, Alma Media’s Code of Conduct, Mutual sharing of knowledge and expertise, memberships in organisations, partnerships and Alma Media’s procurement policy cooperation to reduce emissions-related projects environmental impacts Associations Cooperation, mutual sharing of knowledge and expertise Memberships, partnerships and projects, communication, seminars and other events Media High-quality journalism and responsible marketing, regulatory compliance with Compliance with the Guidelines for Journalists, interviews and releases, surveys published by regard to data protection and information security, high-quality data. Alma Media, the company’s key publications, seminars, social media channels Openness, transparency, actively providing information, accuracy of content, quick response to enquiries Society and the authorities Regulatory compliance, supporting local wellbeing as well as a pluralistic and Regulatory compliance, reporting, high-quality and reliable democratic society content and services, Alma Media’s Code of Conduct and key corporate responsibility principles ADVOCACY AND MEMBERSHIPS Alma Media also manages its stakeholder relationships by being involved in cooperative bodies In addition to these, many members of Alma Media’s Group Executive Team and managers and associations. The company’s most significant memberships include the Confederation and experts hold board memberships in the Media Industry Research Foundation of Finland, of Finnish Industries EK, the Central Chamber of Commerce, the Finnish Media Federation Finnish Media Federation, the Finnish Periodical Publishers’ Association and Media Metrics (Finnmedia), the digital marketing and advertising growth-promoting organisation IAB Finland, Finland. Alma Media’s key partners in society during the reporting year were the Amos Rex art the FIBS corporate responsibility network, the City of Helsinki Climate Partners network and museum and the Finnish Children and Youth Foundation, with whom the company has signed the Responsible Media Forum. The goal is to engage in equal dialogue with other parties and key partnership agreements. anticipate changes related to the media industry and corporate responsibility. 8 Contributor to sustainable development 9 Responsible journalism Alma Media’s editorial teams take a responsible and transparent approach to their work. They promote pluralistic discussion in society and serve as trustworthy and reliable mouthpieces in their communities. MANAGING RESPONSIBLE Finnish media outlets. Alma Media’s editorial Council for Mass Media should be under The second target for responsible journalism JOURNALISM offices monitor the Council’s decisions 20 per cent of the total condemnatory is that Alma Media’s leading media brands Public trust in media and other institutions closely and view them as precedents that decisions issued in any given year. The large must set KPI targets concerning the in society has declined globally during the guide their operations. readership of Alma Media’s media outlets responsibility of their content in 2021 at the past few years. In Finland, the level of trust in Finland was taken into consideration latest. The inputs used in setting the targets remains high in international comparison, but Alma Media’s Editors-in-Chief and other in setting the target. This target was not include a survey initiated in 2019 whereby the the trend is declining. supervisors of the editorial teams are achieved in the year under review, as the readers of the media in question assess the responsible for creating a strong journalistic Group’s media brands’ combined share of reliability and responsibility of their content. Maintaining trust is vital for Alma Media’s culture by providing active guidance and the condemnatory decisions was 25 per cent. The participating media brands are Iltalehti, media brands. The company’s editorial feedback as well as by developing the The Council for Mass Media considered a Aamulehti, Talouselämä, Kauppalehti and teams are committed to truthful, open and editorial teams’ internal guidelines and total of 57 complaints in 2019 and issued a Uusi Suomi. pluralistic journalism. They comply with the style books. The aim is to ensure that all condemnatory decision on 16 of them. Four Guidelines for Journalists drafted by the employees of Alma Media’s editorial offices of the condemnatory decisions concerned OTHER DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS Council for Mass Media, which is the Finnish understand their professional responsibility. Iltalehti, which is owned by Alma Media. One DURING THE YEAR media sector’s self-regulatory organisation. In developing responsible journalism, the of the condemnatory decisions concerning In addition to having long-term responsibility The guidelines concerning ethical journalism supervisors of the editorial teams also Iltalehti involved surreptitious advertising, targets, Alma Media strives to develop the are in many ways stricter than the legislation monitor the results of reader surveys and one was related to a factual error in a news responsibility of its journalism by setting governing freedom of speech, freedom brand surveys as well as customer feedback article and the way the heading of the article annual objectives. One of the objectives set of expression and the media. The topics and the public discussion regarding the was phrased, and two of the decisions for 2019 was to increase the openness of the covered in the Guidelines for Journalists media. They are supported by Alma Media’s involved incomplete references to sources. journalistic process. Alma Media’s media include the principles of obtaining Working Group on Responsible Journalism. The cases in question have been reviewed by brands made a commitment to publish their information, the journalist’s professional the editorial teams to prevent the recurrence editorial principles and look into opportunities position and the rights of interviewees. The PROGRESS TOWARDS of the mistakes. Among Alma Media’s main to implement content elements that shed Guidelines also stipulate how media outlets RESPONSIBILITY TARGETS IN 2019 media brands, Aamulehti, Kauppalehti, light on the journalistic process. During the need to rectify their errors and separate Alma Media has set two long-term targets Talouselämä and Satakunnan Kansa, for year under review, the Working Group on journalism from advertising. by which it evaluates the journalistic example, did not receive any condemnatory Responsible Journalism assessed the use responsibility of its media outlets. decisions from the Council for Mass Media of elements that increase the openness of In addition to publishing guidelines during the year under review. The largest the journalistic process in connection with concerning ethics in journalism, the Council The first goal is that the Group’s numbers of complaints lodged with the news content. By the end of the year, all of for Mass Media handles dozens of complaints media brands’ combined share of the Council for Mass Media concern Finland’s Alma Media’s media brands had started a each year regarding content published in by condemnatory decisions issued by the largest media outlets, one of which is Iltalehti. process to publish their journalistic principles 10 but, for some of them, the publication of the disinformation as well as obtaining information Standards and the G4 reporting framework of Commerce and the Finnish Periodical principles was postponed to early 2020. by intrusive means. As part of the project, which preceded the GRI Standards, as Publishers’ Association. Iltalehti and Aamulehti drafted instructions the Global Reporting Initiative has not yet The other responsible journalism objective for in 2019 for their journalists who have been updated its media sector-specific aspects to G4-M2 METHODOLOGY FOR ASSESSING 2019 was to explore technical or other means targeted by hate speech or online shaming. match the new GRI Standards. AND MONITORING ADHERENCE TO of encouraging readers to engage in highIltalehti developed its internal system for CONTENT CREATION VALUES quality and appropriate online discussions in responding to hate mail sent to journalists. 201-4 FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE The reporting covers Alma Media’s media connection with content published by Alma Iltalehti also continuously monitors the RECEIVED FROM GOVERNMENT brands. Media’s media brands and to improve the effectiveness of moderation and discussion The reporting covers all of Alma Media. Alma Media’s media brands are committed to journalists’ ability to respond to increasing rules and introduced stricter moderation Alma Media’s media brands or other units did compliance with good journalistic practices attempts at exerting pressure on journalists, criteria in autumn 2019. The principles not receive any funding from governmental and the decisions made by the Council exercising influence through information and concerning the shutting down of discussion sources during the year. for Mass Media. More information on the threads were also clarified and specified in management practices used by Alma Media’s more detail at Iltalehti during the year. G4-M1 SIGNIFICANT FUNDING AND editorial offices to promote the development Council for mass media OTHER SUPPORT RECEIVED FROM of a strong and ethical journalistic culture is condemnatory decisions in NON-GOVERNMENTAL SOURCES FOCUS AREAS FOR THE DEVELOPMENT provided on page 7. Finland 2018-2019 OF RESPONSIBILITY IN 2020 The reporting covers all of Alma Media. NB % G4-M3 ACTIONS TAKEN TO IMPROVE The project focused on curbing hate speech During the year under review, Alma Media’s 50 50 will continue in 2020. Iltalehti, which has regional media received EUR 130,000 for ADHERENCE TO CONTENT CREATION the most active online discussions among a smart notification development project VALUES 40 40 Alma Media’s media brands, will continue to from a fund that supports the digital Reporting boundaries: The reporting covers work on improving the quality of the online transformation of news media and is owned Alma Media’s media brands. discussions associated with its news articles: by the technology company Google. The Council for Mass Media supervises 30 30 25% the moderation and discussion rules will be compliance with ethical operating principles updated based on all of the available data. 415-1 POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS in the media industry in the manner 23 Alma Media will strengthen its journalists’ The reporting covers all of Alma Media. described on page 10. Anyone can report a 20 20 ability to react to hate speech appropriately by Alma Media does not grant or receive complaint to the Council for Mass Media. 17% 16 organising an internal training event related to political contributions, and the year under 10 10 hate speech and online shaming. review was no exception to this rule. The Alma Media’s media brands have also set Group’s media brands are politically long-term or annual objectives for the 4 4 0 0 Alma Media’s editorial offices will carry out independent and they do not receive press development of responsible journalism 2018 2019 training focused on climate change journalism subsidies from the state. and they monitor the achievement of these in early 2020 to expand the climate-related objectives. The objectives for the year under Council for Mass Media expertise of their journalists. Alma Media aims to advocate for the review and 2020 are discussed on pages 10-11. condemnatory decisions (nb) interests of commercial media companies Condemnatory decisions on Alma Media's media (nb) ASPECTS OF GRI STANDARDS AND primarily through its involvement in In addition to these projects, Alma Media’s The Share of condemnatory THE GRI G4 FRAMEWORK RELATED key advocacy organisations, namely the media brands have a long-standing objective decisions on Alma Media vs. all TO RESPONSIBLE JOURNALISM Finnish Media Federation, the Finnish of increasing the relative share of young condemotary decisions (%) Alma Media reports on aspects related to Newspapers Association, the Confederation people among their readership. During the responsible journalism by using the GRI of Finnish Industries, the Central Chamber year under review, Alma Media’s media brands 11 Aamulehti and Satakunnan Kansa worked towards this goal by joining a national action commitment announced by Finnmedia and the IAB Finland network in spring 2019, which aims to strengthen the position of young people as content consumers and producers and to make the voice of young people heard when it comes to media content. G4-M4 CONTENT ACCESSIBILITY, PROTECTION OF VULNERABLE AUDIENCES AND INFORMED DECISION-MAKING Reporting boundaries: The reporting covers Alma Media’s media brands. In publishing content, Alma Media’s media brands comply with the relevant legislation governing the freedom of speech, the freedom of expression and the media sector as well as the ethical guidelines and decisions issued by the self-regulatory bodies of the media and marketing communications industries. Material that could potentially upset sensitive audiences, such as children and young people, is published by Alma Media’s editorial teams only when there are weighty journalistic reasons for doing so, and readers are given appropriate advance warnings in such cases. Alma Media’s editorial teams separate advertising and journalistic content in the manner required by the Council for Mass Media and they have implemented advertisement restriction policies with regard to the types of advertising they agree to publish on their websites. Alma Media’s media brands do not target audiences under 18 years of age with advertising. 12 Social projects Alma Media’s units carry out social projects with the aim of supporting the sustainable growth of local people, local businesses and society as a whole. MANAGEMENT OF SOCIAL PROJECTS PROGRESS TOWARDS industries. The multi-year Read Hour literacy the impact of its social projects and Alma Media’s units aim to increase the RESPONSIBILITY TARGETS IN 2019 campaign had the President of Finland as its media skills projects. This was achieved effectiveness of their social projects by Alma Media has set three long-term targets patron in the first year of the project. Alma through the more systematic selection focusing particularly on three socially by which it evaluates its performance in the Media and the marketing communications and implementation of projects and the significant themes defined in Alma Media’s area of social projects. group Dentsu Aegis are the project’s initiators development of the exchange of information responsibility programme in 2019: building and key influencers. Their commitment as well as cooperation and project better working life, mitigating climate change The first target, which extends to 2020, is and resources had a significant impact communication between units. and strengthening the participation and that volunteers from the ranks of Alma Media on the project’s success. The project was engagement of children and young people. employees should provide media education implemented in partnership between the Aside from the Read Hour campaign, Alma to at least 50 school classes in Finland each Finnish Newspapers Association, the Finnish Media’s most visible and impactful social Social projects as an area of activity is year. This target was achieved in 2019: more Periodical Publishers’ Association and projects in 2019 were carried out by the coordinated in Alma Media’s Finnish than 80 school classes and some 1,700 IAB Finland. The project’s planning and recruitment marketplace businesses Profesia operations by the Corporate Responsibility pupils attended media education activities implementation is coordinated by the Finnish in Slovakia and LMC in the Czech Republic. Manager and the Corporate Communications organised by Alma Media. Children and Youth Foundation, which is During the year under review, Profesia started function. They are in charge of the social a key partner of Alma Media. Many public two projects aimed at building a better projects carried out in cooperation with The second target is related to the Corporate sector entities, companies and foundations working life. One of the projects supports Alma Media’s key partners, they support Communications function, which plays a key participated in the project, which was the employment of people with reduced the Group’s media brands in their media role in the planning and implementation of implemented in collaboration between the work ability, while the other improves the education efforts and they also provide Alma Media’s social projects in Finland. The Finnish Children and Youth Foundation and commitment of teachers by developing assistance in other local projects as target is that the Corporate Communications the media and communications industry. the managerial skills of school principals. necessary. The Corporate Communications function must allocate at least 300 personThe project also featured 60 celebrities who The Czech subsidiary LMC continued to often works together with the HR function hours per year to social projects. This target wanted to inspire young people to read. The implement a programme under which it gives on projects aimed at strengthening the was also achieved. campaign received a great deal of praise and non-profit organisations the opportunity to skills and engagement of young people that positive attention in mass media as well as use its recruitment services in exchange for are implemented as part of Alma Media’s The third target is that Alma Media must carry social media. The project was also recognised a nominal fee of one euro. In 2019, the service cooperation with secondary schools. out at least one national-level social project with a UN Global Leadership award. was used by 570 Czech non-profits that hired or media education project in Finland each 6,400 permanent employees as part of the In the Group’s foreign units, decisions on year. In 2019, Alma Media started a spearhead OTHER DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS programme. The company also participated social projects are usually made by the social project with key companies in the DURING THE YEAR in several other projects in its home country business unit management. Finnish media and marketing communications Alma Media set a goal for 2019 of increasing to support causes such as the employment 13 of young people and those for whom it is FOCUS AREAS FOR THE DEVELOPMENT Among the Group’s projects related to the brands supported the media education efforts difficult to find work. OF RESPONSIBILITY IN 2020 theme of better working life, the most visible of schools in 2019 by again participating in the In 2020, Alma Media aims to further increase projects in 2020 will be the working life annual Newspaper Week campaign. During In Finland, resources in the area of social the impact of its social projects as well as projects carried out by Profesia and LMC. Newspaper Week, they offered school classes responsibility in 2019 were allocated not only develop cooperation and project coordination free access to their paid online editions and to the Read Hour campaign but also school between units. Resources will be particularly ASPECTS OF SOCIAL RESPONSIdistributed some 97,000 newspapers for use visits and organising Future Forerunners, a focused on the three social themes defined BILITY ACCORDING TO THE GRI G4 in teaching. In addition, all sixth-graders in student event with a focus on the future of in the company’s responsibility programme REPORTING FRAMEWORK Pirkanmaa were given the opportunity to working life. Alma Media implemented the and to which the company’s key brands are learn about Aamulehti’s operations in the Me event in collaboration with LocalTapiola and naturally linked. G4-M7: ACTIONS TAKEN TO EMPOWER & MyCity Pirkanmaa learning environment, KPMG as part of the companies’ partnership AUDIENCES THROUGH MEDIA which Aamulehti is a partner of. with the Amos Rex art museum. The same The spearhead projects linked to the theme LITERACY SKILLS DEVELOPMENT companies will organise an event in the early of skills and participation among young Reporting boundaries: The reporting covers The media brands in the Alma Consumer spring of 2020 with Telia also coming in as a people will be the Read Hour campaign, Alma Media’s media brands. unit supported the media education partner. which will take place again in autumn 2020, Alma Media primarily focuses its media skills of teachers during the year under the Future Forerunners event aimed at literacy projects on school pupils because review. On their shared Koulumaailma The exchange of information related to social developing young people’s working skills of the media consumption and reading habits (School World) website, they offered media projects between units was improved during the future. Another project with significance of children and young people are still being education content for use by teachers free the year under review in accordance with the to Alma Media’s editorial teams is the climate shaped as they mature. of charge, and Aamulehti partnered with previously set objective, and media education change journalism training programme, the Finnish Newspapers Association to offer visits were carried out in closer cooperation which is discussed in more detail on page 11. In addition to media education visits and media education training for teachers on than before. the Read Hour project, Alma Media’s media Aamulehti’s premises. 14 High-quality service provider 15 Digital responsibility As the digital transformation of business moves forward, digital responsibility has become an increasingly important part of Alma Media’s responsibility. THE MANAGEMENT OF DIGITAL PROGRESS TOWARDS year. The training was organised as planned by having an external partner conduct RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY TARGETS IN 2019 in 2019. To maintain competence related to information security assessments of online Alma Media takes a long-term approach to the Alma Media assesses its performance as a data protection, the company also organised services selected by the Group. development of its online services and aims to responsible digital operator primarily from three more in-depth training events on Alma offer secure and diverse services to consumers the perspective of the users of the company’s Media’s revised privacy policy. FOCUS AREAS FOR THE DEVELOPMENT and advertisers. The company wants the services. Accordingly, the company has OF RESPONSIBILITY IN 2020 users of its digital services to feel confident selected the security of its service as the focus OTHER DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS To date, Alma Media’s digital responsibility that their customer data is stored, managed area of its responsibility efforts. The company DURING THE YEAR has primarily concerned data protection and and used responsibly. It is equally important has set two annual targets in this area. In 2019, Alma Media started a project aimed information security. In 2020, Alma Media will that the customers feel that the services are at developing consent management related evaluate whether it should partially redefine competitive, effective and pleasant to use. The first target is that there should be no to the collection of personal data in online its digital responsibility to include themes serious data protection or information services and providing customers with a or objectives linked to the environmental To ensure the high quality of its digital security breaches in the company’s online better opportunity to choose how and for load of digital services or relationships with services, Alma Media focuses on digital services. Alma Media was not made aware of what purposes their data can be used. As audiences, for example. business development in its investments. any serious data protection or information part of the continued development of data The development of digital business is also security breaches in 2019. The most protection, the company is continuing to The need to update the definition of digital supported by actively monitoring changes in significant issue was found in Tunto, which assess the information systems of its online responsibility will be assessed internally in regulations pertaining to data protection and is Alma Media’s new Finnish online service services with the aim of establishing a the company and in connection with the information security as part of the company’s related to the employer image. A technical comprehensive picture of the systems used updated materiality analysis, which will risk management and by strengthening the vulnerability was found in the service in its in Alma Media’s digital services as well as the also include representatives of external employees’ digital competencies as well launch stage. The problem was detected and digital tools used by third parties involved stakeholders. as their knowledge of data protection and quickly rectified. The technical vulnerability in the maintenance and development of the information security. in the service concerned approximately 100 services. With regard to the current focus areas users. The Data Protection Ombudsman information security and data protection The management of the business units, and the customers whom it concerned were The key development measures related resources in 2020 will be particularly together with the ICT organisation and the notified. to information security were related to allocated to the continued development legal department, are responsible for the improving the proactive and reactive of consent management and the Group’s technical development of the online services Alma Media’s other target related to the information security capabilities of Alma monitoring capabilities pertaining to owned by the Group and for ensuring that they security of online services currently covers Media’s units based on the recommendations information security. New digital training comply with data protection and information Alma Media’s Finnish business operations. of the ISO-IEC 27001 standard. This effort materials will be used to strengthen the security recommendations and regulations The target is that Alma Media should was supported by the Group’s information data protection and information security as well as maintaining the appropriate level organise at least four training events on security policy, which was updated during competencies of the Group’s employees. of employee competence pertaining to data data protection and two training events on the year under review. The development protection and information security. information security for its employees each of information security was also supported 16 GRI ASPECTS RELATED TO DIGITAL RESPONSIBILITY 418-1 SUBSTANTIATED COMPLAINTS REGARDING BREACHES OF CUSTOMER PRIVACY AND LOSSES OF CUSTOMER DATA The reporting covers all of Alma Media. Alma Media was not made aware of any serious violations related to information security, data protection or privacy during the reporting period. 17 Responsible marketing The digital transformation of marketing is changing the focus of responsibility efforts. MANAGEMENT OF RESPONSIBLE Finland. The development of responsible advertising. In the case of a few advertising one of the major players in digital advertising MARKETING marketing at Alma Media is managed by campaigns, changes to the content of the and marketing in Finland will participate in The automation and internationalisation of Alma Media’s joint sales function (Alma Media advertising were demanded. In addition, IAB Finland’s quality standard programme. advertising and the increasingly complex Solutions) and by the marketing organisation Alma Media’s team responsible for content digital advertising ecosystem require Alma of each brand. In software procurement marketing materials refused to produce In 2019, Alma Media started a project aimed Media to make significant investments in related to digital marketing, assistance is a small number of campaigns during the at developing consent management related maintaining a high-quality and safe media provided by Alma Media’s Chief Digital reporting period because the campaigns in to the targeting of advertising in online environment. The company systematically Officer and the rest of the ICT organisation. question did not meet the ethical or legal services and making it easier for customers strengthens its technical capabilities and criteria. to choose how and for what purposes their employee competencies to ensure that no PROGRESS TOWARDS user data can be used. The development advertising fraud or advertisements that RESPONSIBILITY TARGETS IN 2019 OTHER DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS of contract management in Alma Media’s are contrary to good marketing practices Alma Media has set a target that its online DURING THE YEAR services will continue in 2020 with the aim are published in its online and mobile and mobile services should not feature any Alma Media’s most important objective of improving the transparency of targeted services, and that user data is not collected advertisements that violate the guidelines related to the development of responsible advertising and the collection of user data. or used inappropriately in connection of good marketing practices published by marketing during the year under review was with advertising. The Group prevents the International Chamber of Commerce. to find new ways of evaluating and monitoring During the reporting period, Alma Media problems that are particularly associated During the reporting period, Alma Media did the responsibility of advertising in the value also developed its capabilities related to with programmatic buying by auditing its not receive any complaints in its operating chain of digital and often automated the management of digital advertising in advertising sales partners and sales channels countries from the authorities that supervise advertising. Amongst other things, Alma connection with distressing news content and by selling the majority of its advertising ethics in advertising or the marketing Media has evaluated opportunities to create concerning accidents, for example. The inventory in closed auctions that can be industry’s own self-regulatory bodies, but a new quantitative target to support the implementation of an appendix to supplier entered only by approved buyers. the Council for Mass Media, which supervises monitoring of the responsibility of digital agreements in media sales that contains responsible journalism in Finland, issued one marketing. IAB Finland, which promotes the company’s responsibility principles Alma Media complies with the legislation condemnatory decision against Iltalehti for the development of digital marketing and was postponed, but the appendix will be governing marketing as well as the marketing surreptitious advertising in an article. advertising, launched a digital marketing introduced on a limited basis in media communications industry’s self-regulation quality standardisation project towards the sales agreements in the first half of 2020. in monitoring the advertising activities of its In 2019, Alma Media’s Finnish media sales end of the year. The project aims to create The appendix concerning responsibility customers and when engaging in marketing organisation turned down certain advertising advertising quality indicators for key players principles has already been incorporated into communications for its media brands and campaigns due to deficiencies observed in in the Finnish market, including publishers, agreements in the Group’s Finnish operations services. The company is actively involved in their approach to the collection of personal data providers and advertisers, and to concerning the subcontracting of printing the development of competence throughout data or because their content was not in validate their implementation. Once the services and, to some extent, in ICT-related the marketing communications industry in line with the guidelines concerning ethical project has taken shape, Alma Media — as subcontracting. 18 FOCUS AREAS FOR THE DEVELOPMENT GRI ASPECTS RELATED TO OF RESPONSIBILITY IN 2020 RESPONSIBLE MARKETING As a media company that operates at the national scale, Alma Media is actively involved 417-3 INCIDENTS OF NON-COMPLIANCE in the development of the Finnish marketing WITH REGULATIONS AND/OR communications industry’s expertise and VOLUNTARY CODES CONCERNING responsibility agenda. Alma Media also MARKETING COMMUNICATIONS takes the special challenges associated The reporting covers all of Alma Media. with digital marketing into consideration There were no incidents of advertising in the development of its own technical contrary to good practices in Alma Media’s and other capabilities. Alma Media ensures services in 2019 that would have led to a compliance with the obligations placed fine or penalty, and the company was not on digital advertising by the General Data penalised or reprimanded by the authorities Protection Regulation (GDPR) and IAB or the marketing communication industry’s Europe by allocating sufficient resources to self-regulatory bodies during the year. the related activities and by ensuring it has However, the editorial office of Iltalehti the appropriate information management was the subject of one condemnatory and data processing processes in place. In decision by the Council for Mass Media, the 2020, resources will be particularly allocated industry’s self-regulatory body in Finland, to ensuring a safe and high-quality media due to surreptitious advertising. The matter environment for advertisers in line with the is discussed in the section on responsible Brand Safety concept along with high-quality journalism in this report. targeting data. At the same time, through its own actions, Alma Media aims to increase general awareness and enhance the marketing industry’s understanding of the significance of a safe digital media environment. The GDPR and the browser-based measures taken by platform operators to restrict targeting based on cookies require media companies to more carefully assess alternatives related to contextual targeting, among other things. The Alma ID registration and sign-in system to be introduced across all of Alma Media’s media brands and services in 2020 and the shared Media Account system under broader development in the Finnish media industry will enable the delivery of increasingly relevant and safe advertising. 19 Responsible partner 20 Environmental impacts of operations Alma Media is committed to the long-term reduction of the greenhouse gas emissions arising from its operations. MANAGEMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL specified in the responsibility programme. It In 2019, Alma Media adjusted its reported according to the same calculation principle RESPONSIBILITY is assisted in this effort by the management Scope 1 and Scope 2 figures to eliminate the as the Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions. The In 2018, Alma Media became the third media of the business units as well as certain key impact of the business operations in Lapland new target is for the company to improve the company in the world to set long-term employees, including the Facility Manager, divested in 2018 and the former printing energy efficiency of its Finnish properties science based climate targets (SBT). The the printing facility’s Quality Manager and the facility, among other things. According to the by 7.5 per cent by 2025 (baseline: 2016). The targets encourage the company to focus its Group’s Chief Procurement Officer. adjusted figures for 2016–2018 (see page 23), target corresponds to the energy efficiency climate efforts on reducing the greenhouse the Group already achieved its emissions target set by Alma Media as part of the gas emissions arising from the properties Climate change and other environmental target concerning properties and cars in 2018. National Energy Efficiency Action Plan. it controls, company cars and its most risks are not estimated to present significant Significant reductions in emissions continued Progress towards the target was not made emissions-intensive business operations. financial or reputational risks to Alma Media’s during the year under review, with the Scope 1 in 2019 and the company estimates that Among Alma Media’s operations, the printing business in the short term. and Scope 2 emissions reported by the Group achieving the target by the specified year will facility’s materials purchasing and the falling by more than half compared to 2016. be challenging. Progress towards achieving delivery of publications generate the most PROGRESS TOWARDS the target is slowed down by the sale of Alma greenhouse gas emissions. RESPONSIBILITY TARGETS IN 2019 The reduction in emissions was mainly Media’s former printing facility. Extensive The first of Alma Media’s two science attributable to the electricity purchasing energy efficiency improvements were To achieve its climate targets, Alma Media based targets concerns the reduction of programme implemented by Alma Media achieved through renovations of the property has systematically improved the material greenhouse gas emissions arising from the in 2018–2019, which saw all of the Group’s before its sale but, once it was removed efficiency of its printing facility, increased its energy consumption of properties and the properties in Finland switch to zero-emission from Alma Media’s property portfolio, the environmental dialogue with key suppliers, fuel consumption of vehicles, while the other electricity. The programme was completed improvements no longer count towards the optimised delivery routes and developed target is focused on the reduction of indirect during the reporting year under an expedited Group’s target. emissions calculation procedures in delivery greenhouse gas emissions arising primarily schedule, one year ahead of the original operations. These measures are described in from procurement. Progress with respect to schedule. OTHER DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS more detail on pages 25-26 in the section on the latter target is reported on page 26. DURING THE YEAR responsibility throughout the supply chain. Other climate action taken in 2019, Alma In 2019, Alma Media had a goal of supporting To reduce the greenhouse gas emissions In accordance with the science based target Media’s energy consumption and the the achievement of its long-term emissions of the properties it controls, Alma Media concerning properties as well as cars owned company’s direct and indirect greenhouse targets by developing the emissions has improved the energy efficiency of its and used by the company, the company gas emissions are reported on page 23. reporting and electricity purchasing of its properties and switched to zero-emission aims to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions In addition to setting science based properties. In accordance with this goal, electricity as reported below. arising from the consumption of electricity, targets, Alma Media has also set an energy the company centralised the electricity district heating and district cooling (Scope efficiency target for its Finnish properties purchasing for its properties in Finland Alma Media’s Group Executive Team 2) and the emissions arising from fuel in its responsibility programme. The target during the year under review and introduced monitors the company’s progress towards consumption (Scope 1) by 21 per cent by 2025. was updated during the year under review changes to the collection of emissions data the environmental responsibility targets The baseline is the year 2016. when the reported figures were adjusted in the other operating countries. 21 FOCUS AREAS FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF RESPONSIBILITY IN 2020 In 2020, Alma Media will continue its systematic long-term efforts to minimise its climate emissions. 22 CO 2 emissions caused by Alma Media's own activities* Material efficiency in Alma Media's printing plant GOAL % % 100.0 GOAL 100.0 Reduce the amount 100 97.4 100 of wasted materials 21% reduction in 90.0 CO 2 emissions by 2% annually 83.0 82.0 80 80 60 60 47.5 42.1 40 40 20 20 0 0 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 Result Goal Result Goal *Includes Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions, i.e. CO 2 emissions caused by electricity, heating, and cooling of all Alma Media's facilities, and CO 2 emissions caused by leased cars in Finland and Czech Republic. Energy Efficiency in Alma Media's facilities in Finland kWh/m2 During the reporting year, Alma Media’s combined Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions fell by 58 per cent 300 GOAL compared to the reference year (2016), to 1,526 tCO2-eq, calculated using the market-based method. 7.5% reduction in energy Scope 2 emissions calculated on a location basis are presented in the tables at the end of this report. (electric and districht heating and cooling) consumption The significant decrease in Alma Media’s Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions in 2018–2019 is mainly attributable 290 to the electricity purchasing programme that saw the company switch all of its properties in Finland to zero284.9 284.0 284.0 emission electricity. 281.6 279.3 280 The reported figures have been adjusted for the impact of the business operations in Lapland divested in 276.9 2018 and the old printing facility, amongst other things. 271.4 Achieving Alma Media’s energy efficiency target will be challenging because the property portfolio controlled by 270 the company at the time of reporting does not have any significant need for improvement in energy efficiency. 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 When the energy efficiency target was set, Alma Media’s property portfolio in Finland still included the former Result Goal printing facility that was leased to an external party, and where comprehensive energy efficiency upgrades were carried out. Due to the sale of the building in 2018, the impact of the renovated property has been retrospectively eliminated from the energy efficiency figures for Alma Media’s Finnish properties until 2016. 23 GRI ASPECTS RELATED TO consumption data is available. If the data according to the measurement method used heating and supplier-specific emission ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY is not available and if energy is included in for the vehicles’ type inspection (NEDC or factors for district cooling. In other countries, the monthly rent for the property, energy WLTP). the Group uses the IEA’s country-specific ENERGY CONSUMPTION WITHIN THE consumption is calculated based on the floor factors. Supplier-specific factors are ORGANISATION: 302-1 area. The fuel consumption data for company The reported figures for 2019 are adjusted prioritised in the market-based calculation The reporting covers all of Alma Media. cars owned and used by Alma Media has figures from which the impact of the business of Scope 2 emissions. If supplier-specific In 2019, Alma Media’s consumption of been primarily collected from service operations in Lapland divested in 2018 have factors are not available, the calculations in electricity, district heating and district providers. Where the data was not available been eliminated. Finland use the Energy Authority’s residual cooling was on a par with the comparison (13 per cent of the fleet), the calculations are mix emission factors and the calculations year. In the year under review, the properties based on information on the average annual The calculations are based on the emission for Alma Media’s other operating countries controlled by the company consumed consumption of company cars used by the factors reported in the Lipasto emissions use the same country-specific IEA factors a total of 43,575 GJ, or 12,104 MWh, of Group’s Czech subsidiary LMC. database maintained by VTT Technical as the location-based calculations. Scope 2 electricity, district heating and district Research Centre of Finland. Scope 1 emissions consist primarily of carbon dioxide cooling. By comparison, in 2018, the total The energy consumption details for 2019 emissions consist primarily of carbon dioxide emissions (CO2). consumption was 43,330 GJ, or 12,036 MWh. are presented in the tables section on page emissions (CO2). The consumption of district heating was 39. The table includes data on Alma Media’s Alma Media’s reported Scope 2 were adjusted higher than anticipated due to an equipment consumption of electricity, district cooling ENERGY INDIRECT (SCOPE 2) GHG during the year under review retrospectively malfunction at Alma Media’s largest property, and district heating as well as the petrol and EMISSIONS 305-2 until 2016 to account for, amongst other the printing facility in Tampere. diesel consumption of cars owned and used The reporting covers all of Alma Media. things, the impact of the business operations by the company. The greenhouse gas emissions caused in Lapland divested in 2018 and the old The fuel consumption of cars owned and by the consumption of electricity, district printing facility that had been leased to an used by the company decreased by 11 per DIRECT (SCOPE 1) GHG EMISSIONS: heating and district cooling at Alma Media’s external party. Information on the company’s cent from the previous year and totalled 305-1 properties declined during the year under annual indirect greenhouse gas emissions 8,082 GJ (2018: 9,117 GJ). The decrease was Reporting boundaries: Company cars under review to 998 tCO2-eq (2018: 1,138 tCO2-eq), is provided in the tables at the end of the attributable to a reduction in the size of the Alma Media’s control in all country units. calculated using the market-based method. report, on page 39. fleet and the lower energy consumption of For 13 per cent of the reported vehicles, Reported according to the market-based company cars in Finland. the consumption calculations are based on method, Alma Media’s indirect greenhouse GHG EMISSIONS INTENSITY: 305-4 average consumption. gas emissions decreased by a total of 12 per The reporting covers all of Alma Media. The reported figures were adjusted in 2019 The Scope 1 emissions generated by cars cent in 2018–2019. The sharp decrease in Alma Media calculates its emissions intensity to account for, amongst other things, the owned and used by Alma Media in 2019 emissions was achieved mainly by gradually based on its Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions. impact of the business operations in Lapland amounted to 528 tCO2-eq (2018: 593 tCO2-eq). switching the company’s properties in Scope 2 emissions are calculated using the divested in 2018 and the old printing facility The emissions were reduced by the decrease Finland to zero-emission electricity. The market-based method. Emissions intensity is that had been leased to an external party. in the size of the fleet as well as the lower indirect emissions arising from electricity reported relative to the number of employees. energy consumption of the company cars in consumption and calculated using the Alma Media calculates the consumption Finland. Emissions calculations are based on market-based method totalled 0 tCO2-eq in In 2019, the company’s emissions intensity of electricity, district heating and district actual fuel consumption for cars for which 2019. was 0.8 tCO2-eq per employee. cooling at the company’s Finnish properties the required information was available from based on the invoices issued by the energy the service providers. For other cars, the In calculating location-based Scope 2 REDUCTION OF GHG EMISSIONS: 305-5 companies. The same practice is used emissions were calculated based on average emissions in Finland, Alma Media uses the The reporting covers all of Alma Media. in the other operating countries where driving using the fleet’s emissions average emission factors for electricity and district Alma Media began using zero-emission 24 electricity at its remaining properties in was adjusted and the energy efficiency of coldset offset printing method, which able to reduce its VOC emissions to a tenth of Finland during the year under review. As the lighting at the head office in Helsinki does not generate VOC emissions, and the previous level. a result of the switch, the greenhouse gas was improved. These changes reduced the consumption of printing ink has been emissions arising from the consumption the Group’s greenhouse gas emissions by reduced through enhanced automation. The VOC emissions of Alma Media’s printing of electricity, district heating and district approximately 19 tCO2-eq. No solvents containing VOCs are used in facility totalled 509 kg in 2019. The company’s cooling (Scope 2 emissions) at the company’s washing the printing press. operations do not produce other significant properties in Finland decreased by 32 per NITROGEN OXIDES (NOX , SULFUR airborne emissions. cent from the comparison year, to 504 tonnes OXIDES (SOX) AND OTHER SIGNIFICANT Alma Media’s printing facility is committed of carbon dioxide, calculated using the AIR EMISSIONS 305-7 to keeping its annual VOC emissions under NON-COMPLIANCE WITH market-based method. In 2018, the Scope The reporting covers all of Alma Media. 10,000 kg, and it has been successful in ENVIRONMENTAL LAWS AND 2 emissions for Alma Media’s properties in Small quantities of VOC emissions are keeping its emissions under that level REGULATIONS: 307-1 Finland amounted to 738 tCO2-eq. generated in Alma Media’s printing by a clear margin every year since it was The reporting covers all of Alma Media. operations, but these have been reduced established in 2013. In 2019, the VOC Alma Media’s business units were not Improvements made at properties through systematic development efforts, emissions reported by the printing facility subject to any penalties or reprimands for controlled by Alma Media helped achieve including the increased use of materials decreased significantly, by 86 per cent, non-compliance with environmental laws estimated energy savings of approximately with low VOC content and the development compared to the previous year (2018: 3,630 and regulations in their operating countries 119 MWh during the year under review. The of production and maintenance processes. kg). The change was attributable to the during the year under review. ventilation at the office building in Tampere Alma Media’s printing facility uses the producer of Alma Media’s printing ink being Responsibility throughout the supply chain Alma Media requires its subcontractors to operate responsibly and in compliance with the law. The company engages in regular dialogue with its key subcontractors regarding the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. DEVELOPING RESPONSIBILITY In addition to the responsibility by requiring documentation regarding the Media’s operating region. Alma Media units in THROUGHOUT THE SUPPLY CHAIN programme, Alma Media’s relationships with responsibility of the services or products all of the countries of operation make most of Taking action to mitigate climate change has subcontractors are guided by the company’s they produce. When the company signs a their purchases domestically or from nearby been defined as one of the focus areas in Code of Conduct, which unequivocally significant new subcontracting agreement, a regions where businesses are subject to Alma Media’s responsibility programme. The prohibits corruption, bribery, human rights visit is made to the production facility before supervision and regulation. reduction of greenhouse gas emissions is violations and other inappropriate treatment the final choice of supplier. also a key aspect of the responsibility efforts of employees. Alma Media reserves the right Country-level management is in charge of aimed at the company’s supply chain. to monitor the responsibility of its suppliers The responsibility risks associated with the responsibility of the supply chain in Alma by conducting audits at their premises or procurement are also reduced by Alma Media’s foreign units. In Finland, the Chief 25 Procurement Officer is in charge of developing permanent reduction caused by digitalisation OTHER DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS tendering to encourage subcontractors to the responsibility of the procurement policy and the transition from print to digital. DURING THE YEAR reduce their emissions. and Group-level purchasing. Alma Media set a goal for its printing To support the achievement of the science facility for 2019 to work together with The use of the Alma Media responsibility PROGRESS TOWARDS based target, Alma Media set a material key subcontractors to assess the climate appendix in subcontractor agreements was RESPONSIBILITY TARGETS IN 2019 efficiency target for its printing facility in emissions caused by the production of expanded to include agreements with ICT According to the science based target 2018. The target extends to 2025 and requires raw materials and opportunities to reduce suppliers, as planned. concerning Alma Media’s indirect the company to reduce material waste them. These assessments were carried out greenhouse gas emissions arising mainly in production by two per cent annually, as planned. As a result, Alma Media will FOCUS AREAS FOR THE from purchasing (Scope 3 emissions), the primarily by reducing the amount of waste update the emissions calculations for its key DEVELOPMENT OF RESPONSIBILITY company must reduce its emissions by 10 paper (baseline year: 2016). Increasing the publications in 2020 in cooperation with the IN 2020 per cent by 2023. Alma Media’s indirect efficiency of paper use has a significant paper suppliers. The company reached an The use of the responsibility appendix in greenhouse gas emissions in 2016 are used as impact on the Group’s indirect greenhouse agreement with the subcontractor that prints Alma Media’s subcontractor agreements will the baseline for this target. gas emissions as a whole. Alma Media’s magazines to have recycled be expanded further in early 2020. plastic used primarily in the wrapping of Alma Media’s indirect Scope 3 emissions were In 2019, the amount of waste paper, known magazine supplements going forward. GRI ASPECTS RELATED TO significantly reduced during the reporting as maculature, was reduced by 1.3 per cent TRANSPARENT AND ETHICAL year due to a decrease in emissions-intensive compared to the previous year. Maculature The target for reducing waste generated BUSINESS purchases. The Group’s emissions were was reduced by improving the accuracy of by printing operations was not achieved significantly reduced by the lower total the end of production runs as well as by because the relative share of small print SUPPLY CHAIN: 102-9 volume of paper purchasing, which resulted increasing the maintenance and cleaning of runs increased during the year. This led to an Reporting boundaries: A more detailed from a decline in print volumes per print machinery and equipment. While the annual increase in the amount of waste relative to description of the supply chain has only been job. Additionally, in 2019, Alma Media no target was not fully achieved due to lower printing volume, although the total amount of possible for the Group’s operations in Finland. longer purchased paper products whose printing volumes, Alma Media’s printing waste was reduced. Alma Media’s supply chain in Finland consists production method generates high emissions facility has reduced maculature since 2016 at of more than 3,300 subcontractors. The per tonne of paper. Significant year-on-year a rate that nearly corresponds to the rate of Alma Media also worked to reduce the largest group comprises small enterprises reductions were also achieved in flyingimprovement in material efficiency required greenhouse gas emissions generated by that primarily provide content production related emissions and emissions caused by to meet the target of two per cent per year the delivery of publications by developing services to Alma Media’s editorial offices. In transport and waste handling. As a result until 2025. The development of material dialogue with subcontractors and emissions 2019, these sole proprietorships operating of the reduction in purchases, the Group’s efficiency at the printing facility is described calculations in delivery operations. During in content production, established by one Scope 3 emissions fell below the science in the chart on page 23. the year, Alma Media engaged in discussions journalist or photographer, accounted based target set for indirect emissions. with its key transport service providers on for nearly a quarter of Alma Media’s Alma Media’s Scope 3 emissions during the The figures for Alma Media’s indirect opportunities to reduce the greenhouse subcontractors in Finland. Alma Media had 37 reporting year were 15 per cent lower than in emissions were adjusted in 2019 gas emissions arising from transport and large key suppliers, which mostly consisted the comparison year 2016. Nevertheless, Alma retrospectively until 2016. The effect of the worked together with its main subcontractor of providers of delivery, printing and ICT Media maintains its current science based business operations in Lapland, which were to improve the emissions calculations of services. target concerning indirect Scope 3 emissions divested in 2018, on the reported purchases trunk deliveries. Alma Media’s distribution because the company wants to make sure was eliminated from the figures. function adopted the Euro emissions ratings Alma Media’s procurement function in that the decrease in emissions represents a of delivery vehicles as a criterion used in Finland operates with a two-tier approach. In 26 addition to centralised procurement at the years because paper produced from recycled The sources of the emission factors for the Group level, there are also local purchases. fibre is also in high demand outside the relevant categories are DEFRA and Helsinki Alma Media’s editorial offices, for example, Nordic region. During the year under review, Region Environmental Services Authority purchase their content production services the availability of recycled fibre in Finland HSY. The Scope 3 emissions figures have independently because the production and was improved by the Chinese government’s been adjusted to eliminate the impact of the procurement of relevant content requires decision in the previous year to impose divestment of the business operations in a high degree of familiarity with the target import restrictions on recycled paper. Lapland. audience and the special characteristics of the local market. The consumption of the key materials used in WASTE BY TYPE AND DISPOSAL Alma Media’s printing operations is described METHOD: 306-2 During the reporting year, Alma Media’s in the summary table at the end of the report, Reporting boundaries: The reporting purchases from service providers and on page 40. The table shows that the lower covers the Group’s only material intensive suppliers totalled MEUR 131. production volume of the printing facility function-printing operations which also reduced the consumption of printing ink generates waste as a byproduct. MATERIALS USED BY WEIGHT OR during the year under review. Alma Media’s printing operations do not VOLUME: 301-1 generate any waste that is not recycled or Reporting boundaries: The reporting only OTHER INDIRECT (SCOPE 3) GHG recovered as energy by incineration. covers Alma Media’s printing operations, EMISSIONS 305-3 which is the Group’s only material-intensive The reporting covers all of Alma Media. The total amount of waste generated by function. Alma Media’s other indirect greenhouse printing operations declined during the In 2019, Alma Media’s printing facility gas emissions declined during the year year under review as the printing facility’s consumed 19,987 tonnes of paper. The under review to 39,838 tonnes of carbon production volume and maculature were amount of paper consumed decreased by dioxide (2018: 44,895 tCO2-eq) as a result both reduced. The amount of hazardous about one-fifth compared to the previous of a reduction in emissions-intensive waste increased slightly due to the enhanced year (2018: 25,436 t) due to a reduction in procurement. Alma Media’s most significant maintenance of the machinery at the printing operations as well as the Group’s Scope 3 emissions arise from the purchasing printing facility. The increased frequency newspapers having lower circulation volumes of the printing facility’s key materials as of machine servicing and cleaning led to and fewer pages. well as distribution operations. Compared higher consumption of cleaning agents and to the previous year, the Scope 3 emissions solvents. All of the paper purchased by Alma Media’s arising from paper purchasing declined to printing facility was from forests managed a particularly significant degree in 2019 and In 2019, the production activities at Alma in an ecologically, socially and economically they amounted to 4,009 tCO2-eq. Media’s printing facility generated a total sustainable manner and certified under the of 2,468 tonnes of waste (2018: 2,805 t), with international PEFC or FSC framework. The Alma Media reports on its other indirect 92 per cent of this amount recycled. The recycled fibre content of the paper used by greenhouse gas emissions in accordance remaining seven per cent was disposed of Alma Media was 41 per cent (2018: 32%), with with the international GHG Protocol. An by incineration. Of the waste disposed of by the remainder being virgin fibre from trees. itemisation of the company’s Scope 3 incineration, 40 per cent, or 65 tonnes (2018: emissions is provided in the summary table 54 t) was classified as hazardous waste. There have been shortages of recycled fibre on page 39. Scope 3 emissions consist in the Finnish market in several of the past primarily of carbon dioxide emissions (CO2). 27 Transparency and ethics in business Alma Media’s business is built on the foundation of consumer and advertiser trust in the company’s content and services, and the company’s credibility as an independent, reliable and responsible operator must not be compromised. MANAGEMENT OF ETHICAL AND Alma Media’s employees have access to Czech Baltic Other TRANSPARENT BUSINESS an anonymous whistleblowing channel for Collected and payed taxes Finland Republic Slovakia countries countries Total Alma Media does not condone the use reporting any observations of misconduct. Corporate income tax 7.5 3.9 1.1 0.7 0.7 14.0 of unethical business practices by its Alma Media’s whistleblowing team receives The effective tax rate 19.5% 19.5% 21.8% 14.6% 18.0% 20.6% employees or suppliers. The company the notifications and reports them to the takes a serious stance against corruption Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. Employer contributions 0.7 3.1 0.7 0.3 0.3 6.2 and bribery. These and other key ethical Other paid taxes 0.2 1.6 0.0 0.0 0.0 1.9 principles are documented in Alma Media’s The Group’s executive management is Code of Conduct. The Code of Conduct responsible for the regulatory compliance, Payed taxes total 8.4 8.7 1.8 0.2 1.0 22.1 forms the basis of the company’s responsible ethicality and transparency of business approach to business. Digital learning operations. Net VAT 25.8 7.3 1.5 1.3 2.0 38.5 materials pertaining to the Code of Conduct Employer taxes 21.5 0.0 0.4 1.2 0.6 23.9 are included in the induction training of new ALMA MEDIA’S TAX FOOTPRINT Other collected taxes 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 employees. Subcontractors are informed IN 2019 Collected taxes total 47.3 7.3 1.9 2.5 2.5 62.4 of Alma Media’s Code of Conduct and Alma Media reports its tax footprint annually responsibility programme in an appendix to to ensure the transparency of its operations. Collected and payed taxes total 55.8 16.1 3.7 4.2 3.5 84.5 supplier agreements, the use of which has The Group’s tax policy is to pay taxes in the been gradually expanded in the company’s country where the result is generated. The Finnish operations. Group complies with the current legislation, tax instructions and international transfer Alma Media does not receive or grant pricing guidelines in its operations. unethical business conduct. The company OTHER DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS political or other contributions that could reports annually on whether any such DURING THE YEAR compromise its independence. Alma The corporate income tax rates in Alma incidents have occurred. Making the Group’s responsible operating Media’s media brands grant discounts Media’s operating countries vary from 15 per culture an established element of dayon advertising to non-profits and noncent in Latvia and Lithuania to 22 per cent in During the year under review, the company to-day work requires that all Alma Media governmental organisations as well as parties Sweden. was not made aware of any business ethics employees have internalised the company’s and candidates in election advertising, but violations by the authorities or other external Code of Conduct. In 2019, particular attention the terms of the discounts are the same for PROGRESS TOWARDS parties, nor did the company receive any was paid to old employees, many of whom everyone. RESPONSIBILITY TARGETS IN 2019 such reports through its whistleblowing were not previously familiar with the digital Alma Media has a zero tolerance policy for system or other internal channels. learning materials on the Code of Conduct. 28 The company set a goal of having a growing NON-COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS AND number of old employees complete the REGULATIONS IN THE SOCIAL AND CREATING ADDED VALUE SERVICE PROVIDERS training on the Code of Conduct. This goal ECONOMIC AREA: 419-1 Purchases from subcontractors FOR STAKEHOLDERS MEUR 131 was pursued by increasing communications The reporting covers all of Alma Media. aimed at supervisors to urge them to make During the year under review, Alma Media use of the learning materials in question. was not the subject of any reprimands from EMPLOYEES the authorities or rulings pertaining to Employee expenses MEUR 135 By the end of the year under review, non-compliance with laws and regulations approximately 49 per cent of Alma Media’s governing social and economic responsibility. SHAREHOLDERS employees had completed the training ALMA Dividends MEUR 29 CUSTOMERS module after it was introduced in 2018. DIRECT ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED Revenue MEDIA AND DISTRIBUTED: 201-1 MEUR 343 PUBLIC SECTOR FOCUS AREAS FOR THE DEVELOPMENT The reporting covers all of Alma Media. Corporate tax, social security OF RESPONSIBILITY IN 2020 Alma Media’s services are the leading contributions and other taxes paid In 2020, Alma Media will strive to further services in their segments in many of the MEUR 22 promote the Code of Conduct among Group’s countries of operation and they employees. are also perceived as attractive employers. CREDITORS They accelerate the economic activity in Net financial expenses MEUR 0.3 In accordance with the EU Shareholder their communities by paying taxes and Rights Directive, Alma Media published the purchasing products and services from More information on the added value created by Alma Media for stakeholders is also remuneration policy of its governing bodies, their subcontractors. The following chart provided in the value creation model on page 9 of the Report by the Board of Directors. namely the Board of Directors and the illustrates the economic value generated by President and CEO, in February 2020. Alma Media for its stakeholders. The chart does not include financial support received GRI ASPECTS RELATED TO by Alma Media from public or private sources, TRANSPARENT AND ETHICAL such as foundations. Those are addressed on BUSINESS page 14 (G4-M1). They represent a very small CONFIRMED INCIDENTS OF proportion of the company’s revenue stream. CORRUPTION AND ACTIONS TAKEN: 205-3 LEGAL ACTIONS FOR ANTICOMPETITIVE BEHAVIOUR, ANTI-TRUST AND MONOPOLY PRACTICES: 206-1 The reporting covers all of Alma Media. There were no incidents of corruption or anti-competitive behaviour at Alma Media in 2019. There are also no investigations by the authorities in progress at present. 29 Good employer 30 Equal and diverse work community Alma Media is committed to building a pluralistic and pro-diversity organisational culture by providing all employees with equal rights and opportunities and by treating everyone equally. DEVELOPING AN EQUAL AND DIVERSE Audit Committee of the Board of Director and Juvonen, regarding suspected employment organised to support the company’s efforts in WORK COMMUNITY takes action as necessary. discrimination. In its ruling, the District Court the area of equality and diversity. The foundation for Alma Media’s found that the defendants did not put the development of an equal and diverse work Building an equal and diverse work applicant Päivi Anttikoski in an inferior position FOCUS AREAS FOR THE community is provided by regular employee community is a shared goal for all Alma because of her gender. The decisions of the DEVELOPMENT OF RESPONSIBILITY surveys, among other things. The survey Media employees. Development in this area is District Court are final. IN 2020 results, salary analyses and other employee supported by the Group HR function. Alma Media will further improve its data are used as the starting point when OTHER DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS capabilities related to the creation and Alma Media’s Finnish business units update PROGRESS TOWARDS DURING THE YEAR development of diverse teams in 2020. The their non-discrimination, diversity and RESPONSIBILITY TARGETS IN 2019 The purpose of Alma Media’s HR strategy is significance of diversity will be emphasised equality plans in two-year intervals under Alma Media has a zero tolerance policy to support the development of the Group’s even more than before in supervisor training the guidance of the HR function. The plans regarding the discrimination and inappropriate business and the execution of strategy. and training aimed at the development of the cover topics such as differences in pay, the treatment of employees. The company reports During the past few years, the company has work community. justification for fixed-term employment annually on whether any such incidents have particularly focused on enhancing the digital relationships and the job-specific gender occurred. During the year under review, Alma competencies of its employees and creating GRI ASPECTS RELATED TO THE distribution in each unit. Media was not made aware of any incidents an employer image and employee experience DEVELOPMENT OF AN EQUAL AND involving the inappropriate treatment or of Alma Media as a responsible employer with DIVERSE WORK COMMUNITY In accordance with Alma Media’s Code of discrimination of employees, and the company a strong capacity for renewal. DIVERSITY OF GOVERNANCE BODIES Conduct, recruitment and employment was not the subject of any reprimands or AND EMPLOYEES: 405-1 are based on aptitude and competence, penalties by the authorities regarding the With regard to the development of an equal Alma Media’s Board of Directors had seven regardless of their gender, age, religious inappropriate treatment or discrimination of and diverse work community, the company members in 2019. Two (29%) of them were beliefs, sexual orientation, nationality and employees. placed attention during the year under women. Four of the Board members were disabilities. review on the transparency of recruitment approximately 50 years of age, two were 60 An investigative and legal process pertaining and the assessment of the current situation years of age and one was aged under 70. Every Alma Media employee has an to suspected employment discrimination with regard to equality and diversity in the obligation to report any observations of in the recruitment process of the Editor-inwork community. Alma Media introduced a Alma Media’s Group Executive Team discrimination. Such incidents can be Chief of Aamulehti was concluded in 2019. regular employee survey that gauges the consisted of 10 members during the year reported through employee representatives, In December 2019, the District Court of extent to which equality and diversity is under review, three (30%) of whom were Group HR or the anonymous whistleblowing Pirkanmaa dismissed the charges against realised in the company and published its women. Half of the members of the Group channel. Alma Media’s whistleblowing team Alma Media’s President and CEO Kai recruitment policy on the company website. Executive Team were aged 50 or younger, receives the notifications, reports them to the Telanne and SVP, Human Resources Virpi A guest lecture on unconscious bias was and the rest were over 50. 31 The proportion of women among the Group’s employees as a whole was unchanged from the previous year at 47 per cent. Women accounted for 41 per cent of supervisors in the Group as a whole and 46 per cent of supervisors in Finland. More detailed information on the age and gender distribution of employees is provided in the summary table on page 41. INCIDENTS OF DISCRIMINATION AND CORRECTIVE ACTIONS TAKEN: 406-1 No incidents of discrimination were reported during the year via the internal reporting channels available to employees or by the authorities. Alma Media was also not subject to any reprimands or penalties by the authorities due to discrimination. 32 The proportion of employees in The number of employees in different regions in 2018-2019 (12/2019)* different regions (12/2019)* % 5 KPL 4 2,000 17 1,500 1,210 1,224 6 1,000 3 65 500 292 311 62 52 113 116 82 81 80 100 Finland Sweden 0 Baltics: Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania Finland* Sweden Baltics: Estonia, Czech Slovakia Other Czech Republic Latvia, Lithuania Republic countries Slovakia 2018 2019 Other countries *Total percentage may not be equal to 100 due to the *The number does not include deliverers or telemarketers. At the end of 2019, there were 769 deliverers fugures being rounded separately. and 291 telemarketers (2018: 1088 in total). Alma Media had operations in 11 countries in 2019. The number of employees at Alma Media increased during the year to 1,884 (2018: 1,838). New Some 35 per cent of the Group’s employees worked employees were hired particularly in the recruitment business, including the Czech subsidiary in units outside Finland. Telemarketers and delivery LMC and the Croatia-based TAU Online. Telemarketers and delivery employees are excluded employees are not included in the reported figures. from the reported figures. Alma Media agreed in 2019 on the outsourcing of the early morning delivery of its newspapers in Pirkanmaa and Satakunta to Posti Group. The delivery employees previously employed by the company were transferred their new employer as existing employees effective from the beginning of 2020. 33 Developing employee competence and well-being Alma Media takes a business-driven approach to the development of employee competence in order to respond to current and future competence requirements. DEVELOPING EMPLOYEE The development of employee competence PROGRESS TOWARDS of the work community and Alma Media COMPETENCE AND WELL-BEING and well-being at Alma Media is supported RESPONSIBILITY TARGETS IN 2019 as an employer. The most extensive of In a constantly changing operating by the Group HR function. Its tasks include Alma Media measures its performance in these surveys is the annual Quality of environment, competence development the steering, prioritisation and specification engaging the commitment of employees Work Life (QWL) survey conducted in all of plays a key role in ensuring future of functions and processes related to and competence development by means Alma Media’s units. The target set for the competitiveness. Alma Media’s HR strategy pay, benefits, employee reporting and of annual employee surveys, which provide QWL survey is 75 per cent. This target was supports the company’s business through competence development. a comprehensive picture of employee exceeded in the year under review, with the the goal-driven development of employee perceptions regarding the effectiveness score being 78.9 per cent. The state of the competence, amongst other things. Alma Media’s goal-driven competence Occupational accidents, accidents during work-related travel and resulting lost days For the past several years, the majority of the development is based on competence in Finland occupational accidents and accidents during targets, which are defined at the team work-related travel at Alma Media have happened level at a minimum. The company’s aim is NB DAYS to delivery employees. The accidents have typically involved tripping, falling or slipping. to have a personal plan prepared for each 200 1,600 employee to support the development of 1,381 1,409 Alma Media includes occupational accidents, their competence. Goal-driven competence 1,229 accidents during work-related travel and lost 1,112 days for delivery employees in its reporting for development is followed up in one-to-one 150 1,048 1,200 2019. This information will no longer be reported discussions between supervisors and for delivery employees in the future, following employees. Alma Media arranges training Alma Media’s agreement in summer 2019 to outsource the early morning delivery of its programmes that support the development 100 800 newspapers in Pirkanmaa and Satakunta to Posti of employee competence and invests in the effective from the beginning of 2020. collaborative learning of employees and In 2019, Alma Media’s units in Finland recorded knowledge sharing by organising mentoring 50 400 a total of 221 occupational accidents and programmes, training by internal coaches, accidents during work-related travel, with competence workshops and theme events, delivery employees being involved in 168 of 127 171 107 231 221 these accidents. Of the 1,229 days of sick leave amongst other things. The company takes a 0 0 granted following these accidents, 99 per cent long-term approach to the development of involved delivery employees. 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 managerial work and builds an international The total days of sick leave in the Group’s Finnish network of supervisors to support the sharing Occupational accidents and accidents during work-related travel (nb) operations amounted to 17,473, with delivery of best practices related to leadership and Lost days (days) employees accounting for 58 per cent of the total. management. 34 work community is also measured annually OTHER DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS Alma Media will continue to develop In addition to the large number of delivery by finding out how willing the employees are DURING THE YEAR managerial work in 2020 by organising a employees, another special feature of to recommend Alma Media as an employer. In the development of employee training programme for employees who are in Alma Media’s Finnish operations was as The target is a score of at least 7.5 on a scale competence and well-being, the focus in the early stages of their career as a manager in previous years the considerable use of of 1–10. The score for 2019 was the first to also 2019 was on managerial work and improving or plan to pursue a managerial career in the freelancers by the Group’s media brands. include units outside Finland. The overall the use of operating methods that promote future. Each year, the Group’s media brands employ score was 8.2. continuous learning. A mentoring programme dozens of photographers and journalists across unit boundaries was offered to GRI ASPECTS RELATED TO THE on freelance contracts in addition to their In addition to using surveys, Alma Media experienced managers, and the Group also DEVELOPMENT OF COMPETENCE in-house resources. The media brands evaluates its performance as an employer by offered individual development programmes AND WELL-BEING order stories, videos and photos from the monitoring the long-term retention of new aimed at providing managers with tools freelancers based on their needs. employees. The target is for 90 per cent of for strengthening their identity as a leader. INFORMATION ON EMPLOYEES AND new employees to stay with the Group for at In the area of competence development, OTHER WORKERS: 102-8 In the year under review, the largest age least two years after being hired. Alma Media the objective was to increase the use of Reporting boundaries: The reported group in all of Alma Media’s country units previously reported on this target only for its personal and team-specific competence information has not been itemised by gender was 30–50. In Sweden and Finland, the operations in Finland. Following a change to targets in teams and to expand the use of as recommended in the GRI reporting second-largest age group was employees the HR information system implemented two the agile training approach launched in the guidelines. over 50 years of age, who represented about years ago, the company’s reporting on this previous year, which is based on Alma Media In all of Alma Media’s country units, at a quarter of all employees. In the other indicator now includes international units employees sharing their knowledge and least nine out of ten employees were in a operating countries, the second-largest age starting from 2019, with the exception of the expertise with each other. permanent employment relationship in the group was employees under 30 years of age. Group’s operations in Sweden. year under review, and most of them worked The proportion of employees under 30 years Workshops were arranged during the year full time. As in previous years, the proportion of age was the highest in Slovakia, where they Alma Media did not achieve the target set to enhance the employees’ ability to act of full-time employment relationships was represented 28 per cent of the employees. for the retention of new employees in 2019. as mentors. A joint event for Alma Media’s the lowest in Alma Media’s Finnish operations, Of the employees who joined the company Finnish units was organised in the autumn where part-time employment relationships More detailed region-specific information two years ago as new employees, 78 per for employees to share their knowledge and accounted for 45 per cent of the total. The on employment contract types, the age cent remained with the company during expertise with each other in various ways. large number of part-time employees was due distribution and the duration of employment the year under review. There were, however, to the significant share of part-time newspaper is provided in the charts on page 33 and on substantial differences between Alma FOCUS AREAS FOR THE DEVELOPMENT delivery staff among the employees. page 36. Media’s units and operating countries in OF RESPONSIBILITY IN 2020 this regard. The reasons for the differences In 2020, Alma Media aims to further improve its In 2019, Alma Media agreed on the included the labour market situation in the employees’ opportunities for the continuous outsourcing of the early morning delivery of various countries of operation. In Central development of their competence. This will its newspapers in Pirkanmaa and Satakunta Eastern Europe, in particular, labour mobility include the increased use of online learning to Posti Group, and the delivery employees is high due to the low rate of unemployment materials to give employees even more equal previously employed by the company were and active job market created by strong opportunities to improve their competence transferred to Posti as existing employees in economic growth. regardless of where they are based. January 2020. 35 100 Employees by contract type in different regions (12/2019)* Duration of employment (12/2019)* % % 100 100 100 2 10 100 6 8 45 5 8 15 6 4 8 7 98 13 14 95 94 96 20 92 90 92 92 27 17 80 85 80 20 17 36 15 23 14 60 60 18 55 18 40 40 69 61 57 59 49 20 20 41 0 0 Finland* Sweden Baltics: Estonia, Czech Slovakia Other Finland Sweden Baltics: Estonia, Czech Slovakia Other Latvia, Lithuania Republic countries Latvia, Lithuania Republic countries Permanent Fixed-term Full-time Part-time Under 5 years 6-10 years 11-20 year Over 20 years * Large proportion of deliverers among employees explains the high share of part-timers in Finland. * Total percentage may not be equal to 100 due to the figures being rounded separately 36 PROGRAMMES FOR UPGRADING competence of employees and increasing regarding the reduction of employees are transparent and open. Managers and EMPLOYEE SKILLS AND TRANSITION insight regarding artificial intelligence. necessary, Alma Media assesses various subordinates are encouraged to hold regular ASSISTANCE PROGRAMMES: 404-2 Employees were also encouraged to solutions to support any dismissed discussions during the year, and targetReporting boundaries: Collecting the data complete a voluntary digital course on employees financially. Alma Media also setting workshops are organised for teams has only been possible in Finland. artificial intelligence, and a targeted training supports its employees’ capacity to find new to set their targets for the coming year under Alma Media aims to respond to the programme was customised for marketing employment by providing opportunities the guidance of the team’s supervisor. competence challenges presented by specialists. to participate in voluntary re-employment digitalisation and the transformation of the training offered by an external provider or The company monitors the implementation media sector by providing its employees A total of 87 Alma Media employees by providing financial retraining support, for of this operating model by means of with various opportunities to add to their (including delivery employees) took study example. employee surveys. Employees who expertise while they work. The development leave during the year to pursue longer-term participate in the survey are asked whether of online learning materials is seen as training offered by an external provider. As in In connection with statutory personnel they have discussed their development and important because it provides employees previous years, Alma Media provided financial negotiations, Alma Media always evaluates performance with their supervisor during with equal opportunities for continuous support to employees who took study leave whether the employees concerned could be the past year. In the survey conducted in learning regardless of where they are based. if the training in question was considered to offered new positions within the Group to early 2019, 76 per cent of the respondents Employees are also offered opportunities improve the employees’ competence and avoid dismissals. indicated that they had held performance for internal job rotation and peer learning. ability to make a valuable contribution to the and development discussions with their Targeted training activities are customised company. 404-3 PERCENTAGE OF EMPLOYEES supervisor. Another survey conducted during for teams or groups of employees to improve RECEIVING REGULAR PERFORMANCE the year asks the employees to rate their competencies in selected areas, and The operating environment in the media AND CAREER DEVELOPMENT REVIEWS professional development opportunities at employees can also participate in seminars sector has changed significantly during the Reporting boundaries: Collecting the data Alma Media on a scale of 0–5. The average and training organised by external providers. recent years. This has made it necessary for has only been possible in Finland. score in the survey conducted at the media companies to adapt their operations For several years now, Alma Media has used beginning of 2019 was 3.86 (2018: 3.8), with the The most extensive area of training in the to the new circumstances, which has led to a one-to-one discussion model aimed at target being 3.5 at a minimum. internal training activities organised by reductions in employees from time to time. increasing the amount of feedback given Alma Media in 2019 was related to the digital Whenever statutory personnel negotiations to employees and making target-setting 37 Calculation and data collection principles for CR reporting Alma Media publishes a corporate The figures concerning environmental CONTACT INFORMATION responsibility report annually. As with the responsibility have primarily been collected The table below contains information on the individuals in charge of the development of corporate annual report and financial statements, this from suppliers and the company’s own responsibility at Alma Media. corporate responsibility report covers the invoicing. Location-based emissions period 1 January–31 December 2019. The calculations are based on emission factors Name Position Unit previous report was published in March 2019. provided by Statistics Finland, Finnish Responsible journalism Energy, Motiva and the IEA. Market-based Arno Ahosniemi Executive Editor-in-Chief Alma Talent media The corporate responsibility data was emissions calculations are based on Erja Yläjärvi Senior Editor-in-Chief Iltalehti collected from the Group’s internal statistical supplier-specific emission factors and the Tomi Lähdeniemi Senior Editor-in-Chief Satakunnan Kansa systems, subcontractors and partners. The EU Member States’ residual mix emission Jussi Tuulensuu Senior Editor-in-Chief Aamulehti calculations are made according to the factors. Supplier-specific factors and the Responsible marketing GRI Standards, with the Group’s reporting IEA’s emission factors have been used in Tiina Järvilehto Senior Vice President, media sales Alma Media Solutions on responsible journalism being the only calculating the emissions of district cooling. Elina Kukkonen Senior Vice President, Alma Media exception. Reporting on responsible The IEA emission factors have been updated Communications and Brand journalism is based on the G4 framework in accordance with the latest IEA15-17 Responsibility for employees that preceded the GRI Standards because GHG Protocol. Information pertaining to Virpi Juvonen Senior Vice President, Alma Media the media sector supplement has not been social responsibility is collected from HR Human Resources updated yet. information systems and sources such as the Environmental responsibility Group’s insurance company. The information Jussi Pekkarinen Quality Manager Alma Manu (printing business) The financial reporting included in Alma concerning journalism is collected from the Antti Moilanen Logistics Manager Alma Manu (delivery purchasing) Media’s corporate responsibility reporting Council for Mass Media. Jarno Lintunen Facility Manager Alma Media complies with the International Financial Responsibility throughout the Reporting Standards (IFRS) and the figures Any boundaries pertaining to the reported supply chain pertaining to economic responsibility aspects are indicated in the report in the Risto Jauhiainen Chief Procurement Officer Alma Media are taken from the financial statements. section in question. Transparency and ethics in Reporting related to corporate governance business, risk management complies with the legislation governing The 2019 report has not been subject to Mikko Korttila General Counsel Alma Media listed companies and the Finnish Corporate independent assurance. Juha Nuutinen Chief Financial Officer Alma Media Governance Code for listed companies. Information security and data protection Santtu Elsinen Chief Digital Officer Alma Media Matti Venho Data Protection Officer Alma Media Social projects Senior Vice President, Elina Kukkonen Communications and Brand Alma Media 38 Environmental and employee-related figures in 2019 A summary of Alma Media’s environmental and employee-related figures for 2019 is presented in the table below. Alma Media and environment Unit 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Comments The environmental data from 2016-2018 has been re-calculated in 2019. The impact of Lappland business and the old printing facility, both sold in 2018, was removed. Energy consumption Petrol GJ 5,741 6,258 6,300 6,130 Diesel GJ 2,878 3,084 2,816 1,951 Electricity GJ 32,537 31,811 32,798 30,211 District heating and cooling GJ 10,530 9,527 10,531 12,688 Emissions Direct emissions (Scope 1) tC0 2-ekv Fuels 558 607 593 528 Indirect emissions (Scope 2) tCO2-ekv District heating, cooling and electricity 3,065 3,009 1,138 998 consumption, market-based District heating, cooling and electricity n/a 2,169 2,200 2,159 consumption, location-based Other indirect emissions (Scope 3) tC0 2-ekv Purchased goods and services 27,059 29,765 26,860 22,851 The reported figures deviate from those published in Alma Media’s CDP reports because the DEFRA factors used in emissions calculations were changed in 2018 to reflect the annual average EUR/GBP exchange rate according to the Bank of Finland’s statistics instead of the previously used exchange rate on 30 December. The emissions calculations for 2016 and 2017 have been revised using the average EUR/GBP exchange rate of the year in question. Upstream transportation and distribution 15,558 16,531 14,496 14,012 Waste generated in operations 3,042 2,773 2,516 2,150 Business travel 241 248 215 144 Employee commuting 5 5 4 4 Use of sold products 242 242 308 289 End-of-life treatment of sold products 505 536 496 389 Scope 3 emissions, total 46,651 50,100 44,895 39,838 39 Alma Media’s printing business and environment Unit 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Comments Materials used in printing Paper tonnes 26,305 27,551 25,436 19,987 Paper, certified tonnes 26,305 25,374 25,436 19,987 Share of recycled fiber in paper percent 35 32 32 41 CO2 intensity of the paper used kg CO2 / 167 153 139 136 paper tonne Inks tonnes 551 636 598 424 Coldset Offset as printing technology tonnes 551 636 598 424 Printing plates tonnes 135 146 139 142 Water consumption of printing Municipal water m3 3,465 3,387 3,566 4,068 VOC emissons of printing VOC emissions kg 4,442 2,328 3,630 509 Waste caused by printing Waste incineration Hazardous waste tonnes n/a 65 54 65 The reporting of 2016 has been corrected. In 2016 all waste to be incinerated was falsely reported as hazardous waste. In reality, in 2017, for example, less than half of the incinerated waste was hazardous. All waste to be incinerated 150 156 136 163 Recycling Non-hazardous waste tonnes 3,063 2,917 2,669 2,270 40 Alma Media and Personnel The number of employees in different countries 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 The share of different sexes in the personnel (12/2019), % Women Men Finland 1,460 1,293 1,210 1,224 Finland 45 55 Sweden 94 100 62 52 Sweden 56 44 Baltics: Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania 267 100 113 116 Baltics: Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania 77 23 Czech Republic 263 268 292 311 Czech Republic 46 54 Slovakia 60 74 82 81 Slovakia 56 44 Other countries 79 99 80 100 Other countries 49 51 Total 2,223* 1,934 1,838 1,884 In the entire group 47 53 * The number of personnel in 2016 and in other years is not comparable because, along with deliverers, also telemarketers have been excluded from the reported numbers from 2017 onwards. The share of different age groups in the personnel (12/2019), % Under 30 yrs. 30-50 yrs. Over 50 yrs. The share of women in managerial positions in Women as managers Men as managers different countries (12/2019), % Finland 21 52 27 Sweden 7 69 24 Finland 46 54 Baltics: Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania 23 73 4 Sweden 36 64 Czech Republic 21 77 2 Baltics: Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania 60 40 Slovakia 28 71 1 Czech Republic 24 76 Other countries 26 70 4 Slovakia 43 57 Other countries 44 56 In the entire group 41 59 41 GRI index GRI indicator Location Comments Organizational profile 102-1 Name of the organization Report by the Board of Directors p. 3 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Report by the Board of Directors p. 3, 7–8, 9 102-3 Location of headquarters https://www.almamedia.fi/en/contacts 102-4 Location of operations Financial Statements p. 73 102-5 Ownership and legal form Report by the Board of Directors p. 25, Financial Statements p. 73 102-6 Markets served Financial Statements p. 40 102-7 Scale of the organization Financial Statements p. 46 102-8 Information on employees and other workers p. 31, 41 102-9 Supply chain p. 25 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain p. 25, Financial Statements p. 73 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Financial Statements pp. 37–39 102-12 External initiatives p. 7 102-13 Membership of associations p. 8 Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker p. 3 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Report by the Board of Directors pp. 20-23 Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior Report by the Board of Directors pp. 7–9 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics pp. 28-29 Governance structure 102-18 Governance structure Corporate Governance Statement p. 4 102-19 Delegating authority Corporate Governance Statement p. 4 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, and social topics p. 34 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, and social topics p. 6 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees Corporate Governance Statement pp. 5–8 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body Corporate Governance Statement p. 5 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body Corporate Governance Statement p. 5, 9 102-25 Conflicts of interest Corporate Governance Statement pp. 5–8, Financial Statements p. 79 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values, and strategy Corporate Governance Statement pp. 5–8 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body Corporate Governance Statement p. 8 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s performance Corporate Governance Statement p. 10 42 GRI indicator Location Comments 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental, and social impacts Corporate Governance Statement pp. 18–19 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes Corporate Governance Statement pp. 18–19 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social topics Corporate Governance Statement p. 19 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting p. 7 102-33 Communicating critical concerns Report by the Board of Directors pp. 20–23 102-34 Nature and total number of critical concerns Report by the Board of Directors pp. 20–23 102-35 Remuneration policies Corporate Governance Statement pp. 10–12 102-36 Process for determining remuneration Remuneration policy 102-40 List of stakeholder groups p. 8 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Information about the number of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements is available from our operations in Finland and Sweden. Starting from the beginning of 2018 all of Alma Media’s employees in Sweden are covered by local bargaining agreements. In Finland the share of personnel covered is 83%. Also in the other countries where Alma Media operates the Group complies with local labor laws Stakeholder engagement 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders p. 8 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement p. 8 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised p. 8 Reporting practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements Financial Statements p. 73 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries pp. 4-6 102-47 List of material topics pp. 4-6 102-48 Restatements of information p. 5, 38 102-49 Changes in reporting p. 5, 38 102-50 Reporting period p. 38 102-51 Date of most recent report p. 38 102-52 Reporting cycle p. 38 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report p. 38 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards p. 38 102-55 GRI content index p. 42 102-56 External assurance p. 38 Management approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary p. 6 103-2 The management approach and its components p. 7 43 GRI indicator Location Comments 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach p. 7 Targets set for Alma Media’s corporate responsibility aspects are presented in the corporate responsibility report on the pages 8-36. Economic standards Economic performance 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed p. 29 201-4 Financial assistance received from government p. 10 Anti-corruption 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken p. 28 Anti-competitive behavior 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices p. 28 Environmental standards Materials 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume p. 26 Energy 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization p. 23 Emissions 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions p. 23 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions p. 23 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions p. 26 305-4 GHG emissions intensity p. 23 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions p. 23 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), and other significant air emissions p. 24 Effluents and waste 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method p. 26 Social standards Training and education 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs p. 36 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career p. 36 development reviews Diversity and equal opportunity 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees p. 30 Non-discrimination 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken p. 31 Public policy 415-1 Political contributions p. 10 44 GRI indicator Location Comments Marketing and labelling 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing communications p. 18 Customer privacy 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy p. 16 and losses of customer data Socioeconomic compliance 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area p. 28 GRI G4 indicator Standards for media sector G4-M1 Significant funding and other support received from non-governmental sources p. 10 G4-M2 Monitoring ethics in journalism p. 10 G4-M3 Developing ethical practices for journalism p. 10 G4-M4 Actions taken to improve performance in relation to content dissemination p. 11 issues (accesibility and protection of vulnarable audiences and informed decision making) and results obtained G4-M7 Actions taken to empower audiences through media literacy skills development p. 13 45 Global Compact content index Principle Location Human rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Code of Conduct Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Code of Conduct, Corporate Responsibility Report pp. 25-26, 28-29 Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Corporate Responsibility Report p. 42 Principle 4: Businesses should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Code of Conduct, Corporate Responsibility Report pp. 25-26, 28-29 Principle 5: Businesses should support the effective abolition of child labour. Code of Conduct, Corporate Responsibility Report pp. 25-26, 28-29 Principle 6: Businesses should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Corporate Responsibility Report p. 21 Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Corporate Responsibility Report p. 27 Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Code of Conduct, Corporate Responsibility Report pp. 25-26 Anti-corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Code of Conduct, Corporate Responsibility Report pp. 25, 28-29 46
