Publication Registration Number 2019-20 KORAIL Sustainability Report This report was printed using soy ink and eco-friendly paper. Public Relation-02-20081-01 2019-20 KORAIL Sustainability Report Connecting the People, World, and the Future Railroad of the Republic of Korea Connecting the People, Future Connecting the World and the Future the People, the World and the Future People World 240 Jungang-ro, Dong-gu, Daejeon (34618), Republic of Korea Korea Railroad Corporation www.korail.com Culture Promotion Division, Public Relations Team Tel : +82-42-615-3162 About this Report Contents KORAIL is committed to fulfilling its mission to become the ‘Railroad of the Republic of Korea that Connects the People, the World, and the Future,’ generating various economic, environmental and social values while working toward achieving that mission. KORAIL has been transparently disclosing all of its activities and performance to its stakeholders through its annual sustainability reports. Since 2008, KORAIL has been publishing annual sustainability reports, and this is the twelfth sustainability report published by KORAIL. Standard This report has been prepared in accordance with the Core Option of the GRI (Global Reporting 22 Sustainability Issues Initiative) Standards and ISO 26000 Guidance on Social Responsibility. It reports primarily 24 Korean Railway, connecting the Republic of Korea on material issues identified through a materiality assessment and includes the management Safe railroad for everyone approach to those material issues. The future railroad representing Korea Realizing social values for the people Period, Scope and Boundaries 42 Korean Railway, connecting customers This report reveals sustainability management activities conducted by KORAIL headquarters and Customer-oriented convenient railway service its regional divisions and includes activities carried out by some of its affiliates from January 2019 to December 2019. The qualitative performance data from the past three years (20172019) 48 Korean Railway, connecting the family have been included to show the improvements and changes made over the years, and it also Growing together with partners contains some data generated during the first half of 2020 considering its importance in terms People-oriented happy workplace of timeliness. In addition, we have identified and covered the impact of core issues drawn from a materiality assessment on our key stakeholders within the value chain of KORAIL. 58 Korean Railway, connecting the local communities There have been no significant changes related to the scope, structure, reference year and Warm Sharing with the local communities ownerships from the previous year, but footnotes have been added on some changes in Eco-friendly railroads for future generations calculating data and stating contents. Some of the performance data and information that have not changed since the previous year have been restated to help readers better understand the content of this report. 02 Introdution 72 Sustainability Management System Assurance An independent third-party assurance review has been carried out to ensure the objectivity and 02 About this Report 74 Governance reliability of this report. The third-party assurance provider has verified that this report complies 04 CEO Message 76 Ethical Management with the Core Option of the GRI Standards. 06 Special Issue Report: 78 Human Rights Management KORAIL joins the efforts to get 80 Risk Management through the COVID-19 pandemic. 81 Stakeholders’ Participation Additional Information 10 Highlights 2019-2020 84 Materiality Assessment Sustainability reports are published in Korean and English versions and can be downloaded as PDF files from the website of KORAIL. If you have any inquiries about this report, please contact the company via the following details. 14 Company Overview 86 Appendix 16 ‌ Company Profile 87 Sustainability Performance 18 Business Portfolio 92 Independent Third-Party Assurance Statement Office of Public Relations and Cultural Affairs, Public Relations Team, 20 Vision & Strategy 94 GRI & ISO 26000 Index Korea Railroad Corporation 96 UN SDGs Implementation Status > Address 240 Jungang-ro, Dong-gu, > Website www.korail.com 97 Joining and Supporting UNGC Daejeon (34618), Republic of Korea > Email graynest@korail.com 98 Awards and Memberships > Phone 042-615-3162 99 Sustainability Reporting Bodies 04 05 CEO Message KORAIL Sustainability Report 2019-20 KORAIL will Rise to the Challenges of a Post Coronavirus World and New Normal Era. In 2020, KORAIL is going through an unprecedented year of trials and foundation for the East Asian railroad community by joining forces with challenges that began with Coronavirus (COVID-19). The number of the government policies and strengthening exchanges and cooperation railway passengers has decreased to less than half, and the operating with the relevant countries. losses are expected to exceed 1 trillion won. We will take the lead in implementing the ‘New Deal Korea’ We are witnessing fundamental changes in which the lifestyles and program in the era of the 4th Industrial Revolution. value systems of people in our society have been changing completely. Railway is a low-carbon and eco-friendly means of transportation and KORAIL will wisely meet the current challenges that we are facing based has the potential to lead the era of the Fourth Industrial Revolution. on “Overcome the COVID-19 Crisis,” and “New Deal Korea” through To this end, we will install IoT sensors on tracks and facilities, build an watertight disease prevention measures, preemptive safety precautions, automatic detection and remote monitoring system, and boldly adopt and intensive structural reform, new technologies such as big data and VR for the digital New Deal in Just as we have been writing the long history of Korean railroads the SOC field. In addition, we will strive to develop Green New Deal constantly for more than 100 years, KORAIL is vigorously preparing for technologies such as solar power generation business using railway the future without being swayed at all. infrastructure and the operation of hydrogen hybrid trains. Through We will ensure ‘Safe KORAIL’ that everyone can use with confidence. these measures, we will take the lead in the innovation of the railroad KORAIL is strengthening its protection efforts against COVID-19 industry so that people can enjoy the railroad services more safely and to ensure that the people can use the trains again with a sense of conveniently security. Every day, we are disinfecting stations and trains, and we We will emphasize the value of “National Railroad’ and “Public Railroad.” are campaigning for the continued mandatory use of face masks and As a public railway operator, we are committed to providing universal railway hand sanitizers in order to prevent the spread of COVID-19 and other services and revitalizing the national economy. We will further expand the infectious diseases. public concessionary fare policy and reservation policy for the transportation In the face of our first-ever operating loss, we are tightening our belts disadvantaged, and strive to improve transportation convenience for to save everything, except for investment in safety measures, which is residents living in remote areas. We are developing more tourism products directly linked to the safety of the people. This year alone, we invested to revitalize the local economies stagnated and affected by the COVID-19 about 1.7 trillion won by increasing the safety investment by 70% pandemic and natural disasters. We are actively participating in urban compared to last year to replace old vehicles and improve facilities. regeneration projects, such as improving the residential environment of Above all, in order to prevent accidents, we will adhere to the principles ‘shanty town (Jeonbangchon)’ around the station and preparing business of ‘We will not drive trains if it’s not safe, we will not work if it is not safe.’ spaces. We will promote win-win cooperation with social economy Thanks to such principles, not a single accident has happened ─ even enterprises and strive to create decent quality jobs for the youth and the in the record floods we experienced this year. We will spare no efforts underprivileged for the better public interest. to ensure a safe railroad for both passengers and KR employees by Just as railroad tracks run side by side, the paths before us are preventing accidents and improving the system with our limitless sense even more beautiful when we walk together alongside each other. of responsibility and mission for railroad safety. Constructive criticism and the sincere support and care of all We will secure future growth engines through intensive ‘Structural stakeholders have been the greatest source of power that has brought Reform and Organizational Reform.’ KORAIL to where we now stand. We welcome your continued strong We will pursue structural reform, organizational innovation, and interest and unwavering encouragement and support for our efforts as management efficiency continuously in order to overcome the we advance toward an exciting new era for the railway. Thank you! KORAIL will lead the future railway management crisis and flexibly adapt to the non-face-to-face society. To this end, we plan to enhance the efficiency of the headquarters’ August 2020 organization, secure organizational resilience by consolidating 12 regional President of KORAIL in the ‘Contactless and New Normal Era,’ headquarters across the country, and utilize the reforms to improve the Son Byung-seok work system, increase safety, and secure more manpower in new fields. protecting the value of ‘Public Railway and the People.’ In addition, we will actively develop the inter-Korean and Continental railways and overseas rail markets to gear up for our entry into new markets in order to secure future growth engines. We intend to lay the 06 07 Special Issue Report KORAIL Sustainability Report 2019-20 KORAIL joins the efforts to get through the COVID-19 pandemic. KORAIL thoroughly disinfects all railway stations twice a day and major the KORAIL HR Center dormitory as a temporary residence facility for them. stations at least six times daily, and attaches antibacterial film to places that As such, we are proactively supporting social distancing of overseas visitors. KORAIL's efforts to are often accessed by users to prevent indirect contact. Hand sanitizers are provided in major passageways, reception rooms, and platforms of the In compliance with the government’s quarantine guidelines, we are actively practicing social distancing, such as implementing the flexi-time work stations, and ‘transparent partitions’ are installed at the general information system and telecommuting system, and we have delayed the written test prevent COVID-19 center and ticket counters to minimize contact between customers and station staff. In addition, KORAIL has established a strict quarantine system, for hiring new employees twice until June, making every effort to prevent the spread of COVID-19. KORAIL’s efforts against COVID-19 were recognized installing 106 thermal imaging cameras in 95 major stations. We are also as best practices in the international community, and we shared our knowstriving for the prevention of the pandemic inside the trains. Quarantine and how at a video seminar co-hosted by the UN ESCAP (Economic and Social disinfection are carried out when trains enter and leave the railway depot and Commission for Asia and the Pacific) and OSJD (Organization for Cooperation whenever they stop operating at the destination station. The KTX high-speed of Railways). railway continues to conduct intensive quarantine at least 4.5 times a day on In addition, we are helping to boost the national economy by taking the lead average, and ITX-Saemaul and Mugunghwa trains more than twice a day. in supporting damaged small businesses as well as small and medium-sized Meanwhile, KORAIL is actively participating in social distancing and is enterprises (SMEs) affected by COVID-19, by reducing the rent and operating The COVID-19 pandemic broke out in 2019, playing its role for the public interest. When assigning train seat, we assign charges of shops in the stations and all sales fees of travel agencies. and has gravely changed people’s daily the window side seat first to minimize the use of adjacent seats between The worsened management performance due to COVID-19 has led to passengers, fully expand the operation of trains with non-reserved seats lives all over the world. during rush hour, and separate the traffic lines for passengers boarding reduction or suspension of operation of other means of transportation such as airlines and buses, but KORAIL minimizes the reduction of all trains and and arriving at the main entrances and exits of 10 major stations. The KTX Masks and hand sanitizers have become daily necessities, and anxiety metropolitan railways as it is regarded as the last resort to guarantee the high-speed railway and ‘ITX-Youth’ trains that run on weekends and public about the public spaces used by the majority of people has been on the people’s right to travel. KORAIL, which the public uses 24 hours per day, 365 holidays were reduced to participate in the efforts to prevent mass infection rise. KORAIL has maintained a watertight quarantine system, so that all days per year, will fulfill its responsibilities as a public railway for all of the in areas where entertainment facilities are concentrated, and the travel time passengers can safely use the railroad with confidence. people until the COVID-19 pandemic ends, and defeat corona virus together of late-night electric trains was shortened by one hour. From March 28, we with the people. have been operating KTX train and airport buses for immigrants, and provide KORAIL’s response to COVID-19 Installing thermal-imaging cameras (Seoul Station) Separating the traffic lines for passengers boarding and arriving at the entrance and exit gates Sharing know-how during web seminar with UN ESCAP-OSJD Waging campaign for wearing masks (Yongsan Station) 08 09 Special Issue Report KORAIL Sustainability Report 2019-20 KORAIL joins the efforts to get through the COVID-19 pandemic KORAIL provides free passes of all types of trains for medical KORAIL supports the personnel traveling to fight against COVID-19 to encourage the medical dedication of medical personnel struggling on the frontline of pandemic disease. Free railway transportation for medical volunteers started on February 28 this year, KORAIL's efforts to prevent COVID-19 personnel. and as of the first half of 2020, a total of 3,355 medical personnel had traveled by train. KORAIL makes efforts to enhance the convenience for medical Establishing thorough quarantine system personnel by providing both general and special trains so that medical personnel can take a comfortable rest during travel, and providing free parking service at railway stations. In addition, we streamline the use process so that medical volunteers can use all trains free of charge by presenting documents of proof at the station ticket counter, and if the fare has already been paid, the fare can be refunded in full within one year. In addition, we continuously encouraged medical volunteers by posting Disinfecting railway stations Quarantine train Installing thermal imaging Placing hand sanitizers Separating traffic messages on the website and smartphone application “KORAIL Talk” camera Two or more times daily 4.5 times per day for in the stations, lines for passengers to support medical volunteers fighting against COVID-19 and posting (Six times per day at main stations) KTX high-speed railway 100 units at 90 major (More than twice per day for ITX-Saemaul stations and attaching boarding and arriving relevant promotional materials at stations. and Mugunghwa trains) antibacterial film at the entrance Thanks to the medical volunteers dedicated to the health of the people, we are gradually recovering a healthy daily life. KORAIL will continue to Practicing social distancing provide free trains support for the dedicated medical personnel who volunteer across the country to prevent the spread of COVID-19. Expanding trains with non-reserved Providing KORAIL HR Center as a Postponing tests for new Supporting medical personnel fighting against COVID-19 seats during rush hours temporary residence facility for employee recruitment till June Free trains As of the first half of 2020, 3,355 medical volunteers have used the free trains. overseas immigrants Supporting efforts to overcome COVID-19 damage 2,906 persons used the KTX high-speed railway 449 persons used the general railway Other support Reducing rental fees and operating charges of Donating KRW 200 million to Daegu City together with shops in the stations by 20% the members of Korean Railway Workers' Union Supporting free parking at the Station staff have messages Streamlining use process station parking lots encouraging medical volunteers 10 11 2019-2020 Highlights KORAIL Sustainability Report 2019-20 Holding a Conference of General Directors of OSJD Railways in Seoul Holding a Fair for Shared Growth with Partners The ‘34th Conference of General Directors of OSJD Railways,’ called the UN General Assembly of Continental Railway, was held in Seoul (April 8, 2019~April 12, 2019). About 300 railroad We held the ‘Fair for Shared Growth’ to explore ways of shared growth with SMEs, officials from home and abroad, including delegations from 20 countries around the world, small business owners, and social enterprises. The Fair provides product exhibitions attended and discussed various agendas to enhance the competitiveness of continental developed with partners and technology consultations programs, as well as 1 5 railways. The 34th Conference of General Directors of OSJD Railways was the first international presentations of KORAIL business performance for shared growth and best practice railway conference held and attended as an official member country after the Republic of of representative partners. KORAIL is committed to building a healthy railway Korea became an official member in 2018. KORAIL not only strengthened cooperation among industry ecosystem by continuously exploring measures to grow together with member countries through the conference, but also confirmed the strong support of OSJD partners. member countries on the connection of inter-Korean and continental railways. Introducing ‘Zero Pay’ system for the first time among the Conducting 2019 Safe Korea Exercise (SKX) public enterprise corporations The ‘2019 Safe Korea Exercise’ was conducted at the Daegu Gomo Maintenance Depot KORAIL introduced ‘Zero Pay,’ a mobile-based simple payment system, for the jointly with the private, public, and military. Safe Korea Exercise was conducted under first time as a public enterprise corporation at the stations. Customers can pay the assumption that the KTX train passing through the tunnel was derailed due to falling using ‘Zero Pay’ which can be conveniently used in railway shops nationwide, and 2 6 rock caused by an earthquake, and a fire occurred, focusing on rapid lifesaving and initial purchase tickets using ‘Zero Pay’ at the ticket counter and mobile app ‘KORAIL Talk’. response and strengthened cooperation with the competent authorities. KORAIL will Following ‘Zero Pay’ for the Android version, KORAIL launched “KORAIL Zero Pay” further enhance its emergency response capabilities by reinforcing the cooperation system for iPhone, promoting win-win growth with small business owners and consumers, with competent authorities so that people can use the railway with confidence. and constantly pursuing services that enhance their convenience. ISO 45001 certification, an international standard for occupational Expanding support for young job-seekers health and safety KORAIL takes the lead in realizing social values as a public corporation by implementing KORAIL has obtained the international standard for occupational health and safety differentiated programs to support youth employment. In 2019, we provided free system (ISO 45001) for its headquarters. For this certification, KORAIL has reorganized training on railway certificates to young job seekers to give hands-on opportunity to its safety management system in accordance with international standards, and has been 3 7 strengthen young people’s job skills, and supported the education of a total of 320 striving to upgrade systematic safety and quality management by identifying risk factors young job seekers. In addition, we held the ‘Job Fair for the Young, and Officers and throughout the work environment and facilities. We will make best efforts to manage Soldiers to provide jobs in SMEs, providing customized employment support programs safety and quality so that the occupational accident prevention management system can for 800 job seekers, helping young people to prepare for tomorrow. be firmly established in the railway field. KTX, proves its worth as an eco-friendly transportation means both Expanding the Benefits of ‘KTX N Card’ internally and externally The benefits and types of ‘KTX N Card,’ a card ticket for pre-determined time and KTX high-speed railway Honam line was selected as the ‘Green Product of the Year’ in routes in set number of travel of customer’s choice at reasonable price have been service sectors in 2019 with high evaluation for its eco-friendliness. In addition, KTX expanded. ‘KTX N Card’ is a mobile-based discount card providing price discount up to Gangneung line, which connects Seoul and Gangneung, has been recognized for its eco4 8 40% for pre-determined time and routes. KORAIL has launched the new ‘KTX N Card friendliness by acquiring the ‘Carbon Footprint’ certification. The Carbon Footprint is a for 2 persons’ with which a group of two passengers can designate the route and enjoy certification granted by the Ministry of Environment to low-carbon eco-friendly products, discount and a card for ‘Three sections’ with which one person can designate three and by obtaining the certification, KTX Gangneung line proved itself as an eco-friendly sections and use it, in order to increases the convenience of users. transportation means that reduce carbon emissions. KORAIL Sustainability Report 2019-20 24 hours, 365 days The Korean Railway operates around the clock. Railway must run even in severe heat and cold, broad daylight and late at night. On January 26 at 2 a.m., the temperature felt above the pole is minus 35 degrees Celsius; No matter how many clothes you wear, the wind blowing over the pole will feel chilly. On August 1 at 2 p.m., the temperature on the track on the gravel field with no shade exceeds 50 degrees Celsius. It is difficult to stand still, but we must check the condition of the rails that can deform in such a heat. Responsibility for 3.5 million people makes KORAIL be ready for tomorrow. For railways used by 3.5 million people per day, even one accident causes great inconvenience to the public, so all KORAIL employees take great responsibility for safe operation of the railway. All KORAIL employees are striving for tomorrow's new operation around the clock even when the people are taking a break. KORAIL Sustainability Report 2019-20 Company Company Business Vision & Let’s KORAIL Overview Profile Portfolio Strategy Company Profile KORAIL Sustainability Report 2019-20 16 17 C o m p a n y O v e r v i e w Overview Organization chart Organizational Structure Composition of Shareholders The history of railway of the Republic of Korea is the history of KORAIL. Starting from the KORAIL operates 7 headquarters, 6 offices, 6 division, and 65 departments at the headquarter, (As of December 31, 2019) Standing Audit Committee member CEO founding of the Railway Bureau in 1894 and the launch of Gyeongin Line in 1899, KORAIL has and 12 regional headquarters and 14 affiliated organizations Audit Office written the history of railway of Korea. KORAIL has been the key driver of economic growth in Safety Administration HQs Korea by connecting people and transporting goods along the railway tracks nationwide over Office of Public Relations and Cultural Affairs Railway Traffic Control Center vice president the past 100 years. KORAIL, through the railway that will be connected to the continent, will lay Government of the a stepping stone for peace on the Korean peninsula, and we will prepare for the future where Office of Management Passenger Transport Logistics Business Metropolitan Business Office of Future Planning and Trans Korean Railway and Technology HQs Innovative Strategy Overseas Business Division Planning HQs HQs Railroad HQs Development HQs Republic of Korea Korean people and supplies advance into the world. Research Center Office of Planning and Marketing & Customer IT Operation Center 100% Coordination Office of Human Resources Management Service Division Train Operation Department Rolling Stock Engineering Division Railway Maintenance Department Company Korea Railroad Corporation Competent Ministry of Land, Infrastructure Civil Engineering Division Name (KORAIL) Authority and Transport HR Center Special Vehicle Operation High-speed Railway Facility Department Office of Financial Department Private Equipment Office President Son Byung-seok Type of company Market based public corporation Management Electrical Technology and Innovation Division Date of June 28, 1894 Accounting High Speed Electric Vehicle Department Total Assets KRW 22.6606 trillion Integration Center Establishment (KRAIL: January 1, 2005) Regional Division Seoul Information and Communication Office 240, Jungang-ro, Dong-gu, Operating income/ KRW 108,304 million/ Head quarters Daejeon, Republic of Korea Net income KRW 46,922 million Overview of Overseas Office Korea Railroad Corporation Act Legal Basis No. of Employees 29,281 KORAIL opened overseas branches in France, China, Russia, the Philippines and Tanzania, and (Act No. 7052, December 31, 2003) has strengthened global competitiveness through the expansion of international exchanges * ‌O rganization information: As of June 30, 2020 (Employees as of 2019)/ Financial information: As of December 31, 2019 (K-IFRS consolidated) and cooperation as well as overseas business. In addition, we have strengthened the networks Overview of Overseas Office and cooperation systems with those nations along the continental railway tracks to prepare for Overseas Branches France the inter-Korean railway connection by dispatching our employees to International Union of Facilities and Transportation Performance (As of December 31, 2019) Dispatch UIC (France) Railways (UIC) and OSJD as part of endeavors to follow the government’s new Northern policy and form East Asian railway communities. The branch in France supports efficient procurement Trains Length of Railway Lines Average Transported Stations Russia of components for rolling stock by building network with advanced European nations in 16,180 cars 698 stations Volume per Day Overseas Branches terms of the railways, while our China-based branch promotes exchanges & cooperation with Dispatch OSJD (Poland) those nations along the continental railroad tracks to prepare for the connection to Eurasian > KTX 1,530 cars > Locomotive 429 cars > Railway length 4,087.1km (99 lines in total) > Passengers 3.604 million > 346 local stations continental railways, working hard to attract Chinese tourists, and implementing a project of > Passenger car 821 cars > Diesel crane 15 cars > Double-track railway 2,573,7km (63.1%) > Freight 80,000 tons > 306 whistle stop stations directly purchasing components for rolling stock. > Diesel train 2,913 cars > Freight car 10,359 cars > Electrified track length 2,990.1km (72.1%) > 2 yards > Generator car 113 cars > 44 signal stations and signal stations We also established our branch in Russia in August 2018 to proactively conduct exchanges with Russia including various joint researches and studies for the railway cooperation project among the two Koreas and Russia and the connected operation between TKR and TSR. We are pursuing 1894 Established the Railway Bureau by a 2004 Opened High-Speed Railway 2017 Opened KTX Gangneung Line/Pohang-Youngdeock Donghae Line profitable businesses including railway operation consulting services and so forth by dispatching central government office during the 2005 Launched the Korea Railroad Corporation 2018 Became an Official Member of OSJD our employees to the Philippines and Tanzania to explore overseas railway markets with KORAIL’ Joseon Dynasty period 2010 Opned Gyeongbu High-Speed Railway Phase 2 2019 Held a Conference of General Directors of OSJD Railways in Seoul s outstanding railway technologies and operation-related experience. We plan to continuously 1899 Opened Gyeongin Railway Line (33.2km Opened KTX Gyeongjeon Line Used ‘KORAIL’ in Korean, a short for the Korean Railway Corporation Overseas Branches Tanzania expand the target area and scope of overseas business. between Noryangjin and Jemulpo) Overseas Branches China Overseas Branches Philippines Subsidiaries KORAIL has formed its subsidiaries in order to secure expertise in specific business areas. 1800's 2000's 1894~2019 History of KORAIL By coordinating businesses among the subsidiaries, KORAIL strengthens its competitiveness and creates synergy by managing the group. By stabilizing the revenue base of its subsidiaries, KORAIL supports sustainable growth. 1900's Company Name KORAIL Retail CEO Park Jong-bin Business Commercial Facility Operation, Advertising Media No. of Employees 492 Capital (KRW 100 Million) 100 (As of June 30, 2020) Sales in 2019 (KRW 100 Million) Shares (%) 3,128 100.0 Operation KORAIL Logis Yoon Yang-soo Railway-Connected Logistics Business 797 77 476 92.1 KORAIL Tourism Kim Soon-chul Tourism & Leisure, In-Train Retail/Crew Business 1,400 40 644 51.0 Development Labor Management and Customer Center 1974 ‌Opened Seoul Metropolitan Subway 2011 Opened KTX Jeolla Line KORAIL Networks Kang Kwi-seop 1913.8 72 967 89.5 Consignment, Parking Lot Operation Lines (Seoul-Suwon, Guro-Incheon, 2015 Opened Honam High-Speed Railway/ KTX Donghae (Pohang) Line KORAIL Tech Lim Jae-ic Management of Tracks and Electrical Facilities, 5,257 19 2,035 97.3 Maintenance of Trains, Keeping Stations Clean Yongsan-Seongbuk) 2016 Opened Gyeonggang Metropolitan Line/ Donghae Metropolitan Line Sooseo high speed railway transportation business and SR Co., Ltd. Kwon Tae-myeong 667 2,500 6,670 41.0 incidental business *(Reference) SR Co., Ltd. is designated as a quasi-market-based public corporation on February 11, 2019. Business Portfolio KORAIL Sustainability Report 2019-20 18 19 C o m p a n y O v e r v i e w Business Areas Key Achievements in Logistics Business (As of December 31, 2019) Daily Operation Daily Sales Freight Average KORAIL is doing its best to ensure safe and convenient railway operations to achieve its (Tuesdays Transported Comprehensive Transport Daily Sales Freight transport to Thursdays) Volume logistics foundation purpose: contributing to the development of the railway industry and the national economy. We are providing advanced services under the vision of ‘Korea’s Future, People’s 28,664 tons 208 times 7.9 tons (Freight) KRW 807 million KRW 338.4 billion KRW 37.5 billion Main Business KORAIL,’ and achieving our goals in various business areas. Asset development business KORAIL provides various services around its stations to contribute to management improvement through the development of assets with high added value. In addition, we are contributing to boosting local business and culture and enhancing the value of people’s lives by developing Transport Business Development Maintenance & Repair the surrounding areas. KORAIL is focusing on securing organizational sustainability through the Passenger Transport Business Asset Development Business Rolling Stock Maintenance creation of new growth engines by fostering and establishing future businesses, and realizing •Passenger transport business through train services •Development and operation of businesses by & Rental and Facilities Maintenance Business new values by diversifying its business. •Development and operation of railway tourism utilizing the corporation’s assets including stations, •Rolling stock maintenance and rental products by establishing railway tourism infrastructure areas nearby stations, and lands nearby railways •Train facilities maintenance and management Overseas Business & International Cooperation •Maintenance of tracks, subway power facilities, Key Achievements in Asset Development Business (As of December 31, 2019) Metropolitan Railroad Business signaling systems and other structures Revenues from Revenues from •Passenger transport business through metropolitan •O&M of and consultation for overseas railways, Total Assets Development Assets Utilization subways and ITX-Cheongchun line export of used locomotives, international railway •O&M business for private railways and biddingtraining programs KRW 7.7 billion KRW 157.1 billion KRW 164.8 billion based line •Efforts to advance into continental railway Logistic Business •Transport of containers, cement, steel, etc. Overseas Business & International Cooperation •Loading and unloading, storage, warehousing KORAIL carries out overseas business based on railway operation know-how and technologies it has acquired over the past 120 years. We are promoting the outstanding technology of Korean railroads throughout the world by developing and operating overseas railway projects and Passenger Transport Business cooperating with foreign railways and international railway organizations. Since 2018, we have KORAIL is generating revenues by providing transportation services including high-speed trains Key Achievements in Overseas Business (As of December 31, 2019) strived to build trust between the two Koreas by creating a taskforce for the inter-Korean railway (KTX), general trains (ITX-Saemaeul, Mugunghwa trains, etc.), and other main passenger trains, Revenues from operation to understand the current status of the inter-Korean railway and collect relevant data. New Business Orders while operating trains, transporting passengers, establishing infrastructure related to railway Overseas Businesses In addition, we were able to gain a foothold in 28 continental railways after becoming an official tourism and developing relevant products. By providing precise and universal railway transport member of OSJD. KORAIL held a 2019 Conference of General Directors of OSJD Railways in Key Achievements in Passenger Transport Business (As of December 31st, 2019) services based on the value of safety first, we are contributing to the advancement of the Seoul, preparing for the new era where KORAIL can be connected to the continent through national economy and promoting welfare services through railway transportation. Furthermore, the inter-Korean railway. We plan to continuously expand the overseas markets, explore new No. of Passengers Daily Operation 141,192,000 persons we are concentrating on the improvement of transport convenience for the public and on KRW 7.6 billion 135 orders businesses and secure new growth engines based on our outstanding technologies. (Tuesdays to Thursdays) 613 times the enhancement of public good by increasing the operation of trains, establishing efficient Average Daily connection & transfer systems and expanding services for the underprivileged. Transported Volume 390,000 persons Overseas Business Orders Rolling Stock Maintenance & Rental and Facility Maintenance Business (Accumulated) (As of December 31, 2019) Average Daily Sales KRW 6,944 million No. of No. of Amount of KORAIL has established a scientific system for maintaining rolling stock and managing facilities Metro Railway Business Business Orders Train High speed 99.8% Countries Projects (Accumulated) in order to guarantee safe train operations. We have established a facility management system Punctuality Starting with 29 stations in 1974, KORAIL’s metropolitan railways have now become indispensable that deals with seasonal disasters and environmental factors, and upgraded our work processes General 99.5% for citizens living in the Seoul metropolitan area, transporting approximately 3.2 million users by converting the maintenance system to an ICT-based system to prevent rolling stock failures daily through 261 stations as of 2019. KORAIL improves its customers’ time value by increasing and accidents. By doing so, we are working hard to realize a reliable railway that the people can the operation of express subway trains, reducing transfer times, improving connection & transfer 18 countries 58 projects KRW 82.5 billion use with confidence by minimizing rolling-stock failure rates and facility error rates through the systems and securing metropolitan railway network. In addition, we are constantly striving to continued improvement of outworn facilities and performance improvement activities. become a metropolitan railway loved and trusted by people through continued expansion of new lines and service innovation. Key Achievements in Facilities Maintenance Business (As of December 31, 2019) Rolling Stock Failure Rate Facility Error Rate KTX Failure Rate Key Achievements in Metropolitan Railroad Logistics Business Business (As of December 31, 2019) 0.074 Case/One Million ㎞ 1.333 Cases/1,000㎞ 0.060 Case/One Million ㎞ No. of Passengers 1,189,213,000 persons KORAIL operates a comprehensive logistics business that includes transporting, loading, (One failure per 13,430,000 km) (25 cases/18,759*km) (One failure per 16,646,000 km Daily Operation *total line + railway track extended 2,562 times unloading, storage, and warehousing mainly containers, cement, steel and other core items. (Tuesdays to Thursdays) Average Daily High-efficiency and eco-friendly railway is the ideal means of transportation for long-distance, Transported Volume KRW 322.2 million large-scale transport. KORAIL puts its energy into developing products befitting railway Average Daily Sales KRW 2,162 million transport and to improving the nation's transportation system aiming at reducing logistics costs Reduction in General Trains of law materials, which are fundamental for the nation’s industrial development and securing Commuting 26 times Hours Express Trains 22 minutes competitiveness to lead the era of continental railway. Vision & Strategy KORAIL Sustainability Report 2019-20 20 21 C o m p a n y O v e r v i e w Management value system Sustainability Vision and Strategy Under the vision of ‘Korea’s Future, People’s KORAIL,’ we provide safe and convenient railroad Vision Korean Railway Connecting the People, the World and the Future services, boosting people’s happiness and strengthening our social responsibility. In addition, we are striving to lead the new era of Korean railroads by connecting the inter-Korean and continental railways and securing future growth engines. Trust Responsibility Ardor Innovation Nature Growing into a reliable corporation Completing its responsibility as a Laying the groundwork for Growing into the world’s best Enhancing the status of KORAIL as based on its righteous public institution by conducting employees to concentrate all their railway corporation by improving a green railway by implementing Strategies management by spreading ethical social contribution activities capabilities on the development of human and physical services and eco-friendly policies, reducing Service Slogan KORAIL’s Management Value System culture throughout the corporation specialized in the railway, making the corporation by achieving nonsafety matters and continuously greenhouse gases, realizing lowand its employees, expanding antishared growth with local discriminatory HR policies such as innovating various policies for carbon green growth and Mission Korea Railroad, Connecting the People, World and the Future corruption and integrity culture communities, providing technical an open recruitment culture and customers preventing various kinds of and internalizing ethics support for SMEs and actively provision of equal opportunities, environmental contamination Vision VISION 2025, Korea’s Future, People’s KORAIL pursuing shared growth policies taking care of grievances and health care of employees to enhance their satisfaction Sustainability Implementation Process Core Service Values Safety Customers Communications Decision-Making Sustainability Implementation Process Core Committees on Sustainable Establishing visions and making Values Management Providing decisions on management activities Implementing and Operating Sustainability Carefully and Win-win Professional Advice Caring Safety of the Ability to Customer Employee Communication Laborconsidering sustainable growth Warmly and Setting Directions People Secure Safety Satisfaction Happiness with the Public Management Relations Environmental Advisory Environmental Green Growth Eco-Friendly Policies Committee Management Management Providing Human Error Research Committee Employee Safety Health Promotion Mental Health Safe Railway Convenient Railway Railway of the People Railway of the Future CEO Principles Driving Elimination of Unsafe Reliably and Strengthening Value-Oriented Force Railway Safety Review Committee Absolute Safety Safety Technologies Trust Five Main Smart Railway Future Growth Corporate Culture Conditions Pleasantness Public Value Customer Strategies Safety Engine Innovation Transparent and Ethical Ethical Anti-Corruption and of the Railway Services Fair Trade Management Committee Management Integrity Implementing Building an Realizing Achieving a Social Contribution Steering Contribution to Local Optimizing Internalizing and Providing Happiness Sharing Talent Sharing advanced system KORAILtransparent, fair and Board of Directors Committee Communities Like Your railway network future core Feedback for the railway safety type social responsible Families and operations Technologies Communication management value management system Customer Evaluation Team Customer Services Feedback Friendliness Channels Like Your Expanding Expanding Pursuing win-win Friends Strengthening Establishing preventionmultifaceted Labor universal connected traffic centered safety business management services services Divisions implementing Sustainability and Their roles Strategic investment portfolios relations Tasks Main Implementing Improving railways Laying the Strategies Roles and Tasks Convenience Strengthening Realizing ICTSubcommittees Bodies Convenience environment groundwork for the Creating pleasant and Comfort people-oriented based railway Sustainability Conducting overall management of sustainability and handling external affairs / Inspecting and consulting about Cultural Affairs and energy inter-Korean and workplaces railway safety services Subcommittee progress and performance of each area / Increasing awareness-levels and strengthening promotions Department management overseas railways Reliable Corporation Integrity Integrity Implementing policies and institutions on anti-corruption and integrity / Internalizing employee ethics (conducting Improving railway Expanding Strengthening Building optimal Improving Inspection Subcommittee training and improving institutions) / Supporting integrity and strengthening incentives safety awareness number of financial future railway IT-based work Department and culture decent jobs soundness network process Social Social Value Realization Subcommittee / Conducing overall management of social value realization activities throughout Shared Value Contribution the corporation / Strengthening the public nature of the railway work• Producing results on social values that the Creation Fulfilling Social Subcommittee people can benefit from Department Responsibilities Materials Shared Growth Establishing and implementing shared growth policies / Supporting SMEs by encouraging them to develop new Management Subcommittee products under the condition of purchasing them Sustainability Value System Department Human Complying with the Labor Standards Act and conducing overall management of government policies / Making nonKORAIL regards ‘protecting the safety and life of the people’ as the mission of public railroads, Personnel Resource discriminatory and fair recruitments (employment, appointment and others) / Implementing programs to develop Realizing a Subcommittee Management and pursues sustainable growth by realizing social values through specialized social responsibility employees’ capabilities / Operating welfare policies to achieve GWP Passionate Department activities. Sustainability management activities of KORAIL are operated by 10 sub-divisions Organization Welfare Health Conducting overall management of industrial accident prevention policies/ Promoting VOC channel and collecting Management centered on the Office of Public Relations and Cultural Affairs, Public Relations Team, which is the Subcommittee opinion/ Handling VOC and operating information protection system Department supervising team, and a committee composed of internal and external experts for each division Customer Establishing and implementing policies on improving customer services / Facilitating communication channels with Safety Planning Innovative Subcommittee customers and collecting their feedback / Handling VOC and operating information protection system Department identifies and implements the tasks for sustainable growth of the corporation such as tasks Corporation Satisfying Service for economy, society, ethics, environment, etc. KORAIL continuously reviews its sustainability Safety Customers Establishing and implementing policies on railway safety / Implementing customer safety management system Innovation Subcommittee management strategy and roadmap, responds to risks proactively, and practices sustainability Department Environment Establishing and managing policies on environment-related jobs / Establishing and implementing waste management Environment management across the corporation. In addition, we are creating the future value of the railroad Eco-Friendlyand Subcommittee system / Introducing and utilizing eco-friendly technologies Management industry by communicating with various stakeholders and actively reflecting their opinions in Green Railway Energy Establishing and managing policies on saving energy/Implementing energy efficiency programs / Developing and Energy management activities. Subcommittee utilizing new renewable energy / Implementing polices on reducing greenhouse gas emissions Department KORAIL Sustainability Report 2019-20 Sustainability Korean Railway, connecting the Korean Railway, connecting Korean Railway, Korean Railway, connecting local Let’s KORAIL Issues connecting families Republic of Korea customers communities KORAIL Sustainability Report 2019-20 25 S u s t a i n a b i l i t y Iss u e s Korean Railway, connecting the Safe Railroad for Everyone Republic of Korea Business & In addition to natural disasters, the number of factors that threaten the safety of the railroad is increasing as the Social Context occurrence of abnormal weather such as heatwaves in summer increases. Most importantly, KORAIL prioritizes safety management, as minor carelessness in railroad operation can result in major accidents. Accordingly, KORAIL is establishing a safety culture that considers safety as its basic mission, and places safety as the top priority over punctuality. For the safety of the public, we have established a prevention-oriented safety system that identifies and deals with risk factors in advance, and we are striving to create the safest possible railroad environment by actively introducing advanced technologies. In addition, KORAIL expands its safety manpower and strengthens its capabilities to respond quickly and accurately to unexpected accidents and disasters, and we are committed to making a safe railroad where all the people can feel safe by upgrading the information security management system for cyber safety management. Progress Inspiring a field-based Securing safety facilities to prevent railroad safety culture safety-related accidents affecting users Establishing a smart safety system utilizing Upgrading information cutting-edge technolo gies security infrastructure Future Plan Establishing a field participation-based Continuously securing facilities required preventive safety system for public safety Strengthening safety by expanding Continuously providing safe railroad service cutting-edge technology-based facilities through a multi-directional information security system 2019-2020 Key Performance Safety Management Rate* Rolling Stock Failure Rate* Facility Error Rate* Personal Information Leakage *Customer Damage Cases/One Million km *Rolling Stock Failure Cases/One Million km *Facility Error Cases/One thousand km Accident and Cyber Infringement 1.982 0.074 1.333 ZERO Future railroad Realizing social Link to SDGs Related Stakeholders Related Department Safe railroad for representing values for the everyone Korea people Employees / Customers / Safety Administration HQs Government Korean Railway, KORAIL Sustainability Report 2019-20 26 27 S u s t ai n a b ili t y I ss u e s Connecting the Republic of Korea Human-oriented Safety Management Raising Safety Fences Safety of Partners Safety of Employees We are reinforcing the safety management system to enhance the safety of our partners. When Industrial accident rate in 2019 Compared to the previous year selecting partners, KORAIL strives to raise the safety awareness of partners by restricting the Inspiring a Field-Based Railroad Safety Culture participation of accident-causing companies and encouraging the participation of companies 0.017%p reduction (0.418% in 2018 → 0.401% in 2019) KORAIL has reinforced field-based railroad safety management to maintain world-class railroad with a high level of safety. In addition, we have reinforced construction quality by signing 1.8m contracts with excellent companies that have abundant high-quality human resources by safety. To this end, we declared ‘safety first’ as a management principle, and the CEO took the initiative to participate in safety activities. We revamped our safety management organization 1.2m 0.6m reflecting the ratio of full-time employees of partners in the evaluation items. Furthermore, we International Standard for Occupational Health including the Industry Safety Department and the Joint Railroad Facility Safety Innovation are realizing an accident-free railroad business by reinforcing safety management support for and Safety (ISO 45001) Division to continuously improve the system related to accidents and failure. In addition, we have the employees of our partners. In order to reduce the risk of railroad track work, KORAIL has increased the electric rail safety managers in high-voltage adjacent construction projects by 33%, Certification obtained established a safety management system tailored to the characteristics of the railway field by operating the Railway Safety Management Committee, in which the representatives of the labor Before improvement After improvement and has fulfilled its social responsibilities by supporting the insurance premiums for small repair and management participate for the first time to intensively discuss safety management issues. works of less than KRW 10 million. The construction project management service was expanded In addition, KORAIL has provided on-the-job training to increase the number of safety and health Death of Partners’ Employees in 2019 by 49% to prevent safety accidents due to overloaded supervisory work, and a mobile terminal personnel and to strengthen their capabilities, and systematically identified and managed the risk with a train approach warning app was provided to the contracting workers so that they can factors of industrial accidents by introducing the international standard for occupational health and safety management systems (ISO 45001). Furthermore, we are making various efforts to ZERO also check on train approaches. In addition, we focused on securing the safety of the contracting workers by expanding and installing an automatic train supervision (ATS) device to prevent trains prevent industrial accidents, such as expanding investment to improve the working environment, from entering the track in operation, and as a result, we achieved zero deaths for employees of securing safe working hours, and thoroughly implementing risk assessment at the workplace to Conducting accident prevention activities in partners in 2019. eliminate unsafe factors in advance. In addition, we are motivating the workers through rewards stations and trains to ensure safety of users for people of merit in preventing railroad accidents and making efforts to establish a field-based Increasing installation of AED in stations and trains Safety of Customers railroad safety culture. •Addition of eight stations (63 → 71) We are expanding safety facilities to prevent safety accidents for railway passengers. We have •Installation of an additional 33 AEDs (546 → 579) expanded the air conditioning zones on platforms in 100 stations and waiting room in 91 stations Realizing Safe Work Places Accepted by Employees •Conducting regular training for 3,633 in preparation for heatwaves, and installed and replaced new escalators and elevators. In addition, employees in the field In order to ensure the safety of subcontractors, KORAIL has adopted Safety Call, a system that 622 elevator auxiliary brakes were installed to prevent reverse driving, and the height of the safety Falls and electric shocks requests the suspension of work upon occurrence of a dangerous situation. To ensure the safety Conducting unique promotion on elevator safety fence was raised by 0.6m in 74 stations. As such, we have improved the accident-prevention Compared to the previous year of track workers, we have updated the app on train approach to promptly check alarms when facilities in stations. As a result, in 2019, we successfully minimized the casualty accidents involving •Installing ‘3D hologram’ drawing customers’ the train approaches. In addition, we have built customized safety equipment that guarantees 50% reduction (Four cases in 2018 → Two cases in 2019) the life and safety of workers. KORAIL has focused on establishment of safety facilities reflecting attention ⇢ Improving safety experience when using an elevator •Conducting joint safety campaigns passengers and the public. In addition, KORAIL installed safety messages in ‘3D hologram’ drawing the attention of users in order to secure elevator safety, installed 33 additional AEDs in stations the working environment, such as installing safety scaffolding at 2,106 locations, and expanding (Korea Elevator Safety Agency) and trains, and conducted CPR training for station staff and crew members, which enabled us to safety facilities at 320 locations to prevent fall accidents, installing solid-insulated switchgear to rescue 23 customers at Yongsan Station, Daegok Station, and Gwangmyeong Station, respectively, Safety Helmet prevent electric shock accidents, and providing individual electroscopes. Thanks to such efforts, Improving accident prevention facilities in stations in 2019. We also waged railroad safety campaigns. We publicized the railroad safety at the 5th job accidents caused by falls or electric shocks in 2019 decreased by 50% compared to the •Installing 662 auxiliary elevator brakes to Korea Safety Industry Fair, attended by about 58,000 people in order to create a traffic safety prevent accidents such as reverse driving previous year. In addition, KORAIL has provided safety vests with improved visibility to ensure culture with the public, and provided support for better understanding on railroad safety by •Raising height of platform safety fences the safety of night track workers, and secured more shelters for employees in consideration of (at 74 stations) conducting railroad safety campaigns involving 8,732 persons. Increase in and spread of public the increase in manpower. We have created safe workplaces for workers by improving outdated awareness of safety decreased the number of those attempting to take their own lives on the shelters to build a safety system focusing on people and accident prevention. railways by 52% in 2019 compared to the five-year average. Introducing Cutting-edge Safety Equipment related to Train Approach KORAIL has introduced advanced equipment linked to the train approach app in order to ensure the safety of railroad workers. The existing train approach app gave only an alarm sound when Focus Issue Contest Renewing Safety Practicing Resolution of KORAIL Employees the train approached, so workers were not aware of its approach if there was noise in the field. On November 4, 2019, KORAIL held the ‘Contest Renewing Safety Practicing Resolution of KORAIL Employees’ Performance result To improve this, KORAIL has upgraded the train approach app and introduced advanced appto break down the existing practices and to implement safety. All employees, including Son Byung-seok, CEO Job accidents related to Total train delayed hours based safety equipment. We have improved the function of the train approach warning app (President) of KORAIL, participated in the event and made a resolution for ‘absolute compliance with regulations railway operation due to accident. Failure (terminal), so that the track workers and engineers can mutually recognize the status of rails in and rules, thorough confirmation and consultation, and selection of the safest method’ for safety, which is the core value and priority of the railroad business. In addition, after sharing accident cases and risk factors which operation in advance, and thereby supported not only employees of KORAIL but also external Reduced 28.6 % might happen before work with the support of employees at the Daejeon-Chungnam Regional Division, we compared to the Reduced 40.9 % companies to use them together. In addition, we adopted wearable equipment such as a safety demonstrated the process of replacing the parts of all of our lines according to the work manual that strengthened safety. Son Byung-seok, CEO (President) of KORAIL remarked, “We can make no compromise on previous year (786 hours in 2018 helmet speaker that can detect train approach by vibration to prevent the workers from not (Seven cases in 2018 → 464 hours in 2019) safety under any circumstances and under any conditions, and employees should have a clear will to practice recognizing an alarm sound due to noise during work, and we also installed a horn and LED Contest Renewing Safety Practicing → Five cases in 2019) safety themselves.” Resolution of KORAIL warning lights to further enhance worker safety. As a result, job accidents related to railroad operation decreased by 28.6% compared to the previous year, and the total train delayed hours due to accidents and failure decreased by 40.9%. Korean Railway, KORAIL Sustainability Report 2019-20 28 29 S u s t ai n a b ili t y I ss u e s Connecting the Republic of Korea Train and Facility Safety 2019 Emergency Response Drill Strengthening Disaster Management Competency Monthly Failure Rate of Elevators Expanding railway safety facility 11,908times KORAIL classifies emergency response stages into prevention, preparation, response, and recovery, and strives to strengthen its capabilities at each stage in order to protect the safety and 15.2% reduction (1.57cases/100 units in 2018 → 1.33 cases/100 units in 2019) We have expanded the railway safety facility to create railroad spaces that anyone can use safely. The height of the fences of the high platforms of the metropolitan railway has been raised to (1,266 times increased compared to the previous year) lives of people in the event of a disaster. We formed the Joint Railroad Facility Safety Innovation Division, an organization dedicated to cooperation between construction and operation block access to railway in operation in advance, and thermal imaging cameras for drones have divisions, increased safety manpower, and expanded safety investment to secure safety PSD Safety Door Accidents (2 years in a row) been introduced to prevent unauthorized intrusion into the track and to block access by animals through improvement of railroad infrastructure, replacing rolling stocks and performing facility and people. In addition, we have expanded the installation of protective fences to prevent maintenance works. In preparation for ‘Disaster’, we have established a smart disaster safety accidents in contact with trains, expanding the facilities with the aim of a complete blockade by Emergency Drill against Railway Accident management system based on IoT, and shifted the safety paradigm focusing on prevention ZERO 2022. We installed safety scaffolding at 15 stations where the distance between the platform by classifying the emergency response process by types, subjects, and time zones. We have and the train is 100 mm or more to prevent foot loss accidents, while getting on and off the prepared company-wide safety measures focusing on restoring the trust of the people in order trains. KORAIL has also established a response system that can quickly and safely respond to to respond to disasters such as the KTX derailment on the Gangneung Line. We operated a unusual situations. In preparation for emergency stop of KTX, emergency barriers exit doors situation judgment team to recover from accidents safely and utilize the golden hour, and Expanding safety facilities and preparing quick were installed in 8 stations for quick escape, and an organization specialized in platform safety focused our capabilities on minimizing customers’ inconvenience by establishing guidelines for response system doors (PSD) was newly established to enhance the ability to respond immediately to failures. In customer movement in case of accidents and failures, and sharing train operation information. Securing KTX emergency exit door addition, by simplifying the reporting procedure, we made a report on an emergency situation In addition, we have strengthened emergency response drills such as national crisis response such as a railroad accident reported to number ‘110’ be directly connected to the control center, exercises and KTX derailment drills. On the other hand, we also operated a field response team Main Line and we established a remote broadcasting system at the control center to announce information to prompt recovery from disasters, and made every effort to prevent casualties of customers Up Emergency Down on accident from the center to all stations simultaneously. through rapid relief measures. We have strengthened our disaster management competency track track exit doors platform platform such as maintaining railroad function of transportation through connected transport upon Advanced Technology-based Facility Safety occurrence of disasters including typhoons, and contributed to the improvement of public safety. KORAIL has introduced and expanded advanced technologies such as drones and IoT into the Simplifying railway accident reporting procedures railroad maintenance system to strengthen railroad safety. KORAIL has trained professional Before improvement After improvement manpower to promote facility inspections using drones, conducted in-depth inspections using Cyber Safety (4-stage) (2-stage) drones at railway facilities where engineers cannot inspect, and increased the level of safety Report → information on Report → Control Center Information Security Strategy report number → Customer (Direct) (connected after inspection by expanding the inspection using drones at dangerous locations by 36%. Meanwhile, re-report → Connection to phone call) control center we introduced IoT technology to detect the degree of deflection of the electric lane in real time KORAIL has established an information security strategy to build a complete cyber-attack with an ultrasonic sensor in order to secure safety against abnormal climates, prevented the response system. With the goal of achieving ‘Zero Personal Information Leakage Accidents Automatic connection tension deflection of the electric lane in advance by transmitting the results through wireless Personal Information Leakage Accident and Zero Cyber Infringement Accidents,’ we raised security awareness, strengthened personal communication. An automatic watering system was developed to prevent rail deformation /Cyber Infringement Accident information protection and information security management system, and advanced information when the rail temperature rises to prevent rail deformation. As a result, in 2019, the power security infrastructure. As a result, in 2019, we achieved 0 (zero) personal information leakage The lowest power-supply failure in history supply failures decreased by 50% compared to the previous year, recording the lowest rate ever, ZERO accidents and zero technical cyber infringement accidents. and failures due to broken rail decreased to zero. In addition, slow track operation rate during 50% reduction (Seven cases in 2017 → heatwaves decreased by 73% compared to the previous year. Furthermore, we have installed Information Security Management System (ISMS) Information Security Activities Two cases in 2018 → One case in 2019) video devices that automatically detect birds’ nests on railway tracks by applying artificial intelligence technology, and developed an artificial intelligence algorithm with 95% accuracy for Certified for four We are protecting the people’s valuable information assets by strengthening the protection of The Construction, Facility Safety Innovation the first time in Korea, thus contributing to improving the accuracy and efficiency of railroad years in a row personal information. KORAIL added information security indicators to the internal management evaluation so that the security culture can be properly instilled, and provided training on security Outstanding Practice Contest maintenance. Such efforts have allowed KORAIL to win the Excellence Award at the 2019 (Hosted by Korea's Ministry of Land, accident prevention for employees working at the headquarters to strengthen expertise in the Construction and Facility Safety Innovation Technology Contest hosted by Korea's Ministry of Result of MOLIT’s simulation training Infrastructure and Transport in 2019) in preparation for cyber attack security area, and improved emergency response competency through simulation training to Land, Infrastructure and Transport. Best Award Excellent (for eight consecutive years) respond to crises. In addition, security has been reinforced at each stage from collection to management, provision, and destruction of personal information. To this end, we are striving to thoroughly protect the personal information of 17 million persons by revising the company rules Disaster Safety and procedures for personal information protection, strengthening the personal information Establishing Disaster Management System management consignment contract, and destroying and encrypting unnecessary personal information in PC in the office. In addition, we have strengthened our information security Based on the know-how in railroad operation and scientific analysis method, KORAIL has management system, receiving information security management system (ISMS) certification advanced its disaster management system that can quickly respond to disasters and abnormal for 4 consecutive years, to increase cyber threat response capabilities, and we have updated events. In particular, we are striving to establish a safety management system in which people information security infrastructures by expanding big data security control to all systems, and can feel safe through disaster management focused on preemptive prevention and spreading introducing a ticket terminal protection system to prevent infringement accidents. KORAIL will safety culture. To this end, we split emergency response stages into 4 stages, implement tasks to remain committed to realizing personal information protection and cyber safety through an allstrengthen competency at each stage, and make every effort to ensure customers’ safety. round update of information security system. Korean Railway, KORAIL Sustainability Report 2019-20 30 31 S u s t ai n a b ili t y I ss u e s Connecting the Republic of Korea Logistics Business Future Railway Representing the Republic of Korea Items for National Growth Base Expanding Transportation Service KORAIL has expanded transportation services to increase the efficiency and competitiveness Attracting 970,000 tons of railroad logistics. Breaking out of the existing marketing method that had high dependence on transport companies, we conducted owner-oriented marketing, and improved the process by actively reflecting customers’ requirements, such as flexible fares and adjustment of train Business & As the national railroad that will lead the future of Korea, KORAIL strives to secure new growth engines by utilizing the timetables, to enhance satisfaction. In addition, as a result of efforts to overcome the limitations Social Context unique assets and competitiveness of the railroad. We are dreaming of a tomorrow that overcomes limitations of freight of existing transportation services, we changed the counseling system to a one-person, onetransport businesses, increases demands for the public nature of the railway assets, and connects people and goods of customer-only system from the existing method where a small number of employees were Korea to foreign nations through the inter-Korean railway. Furthermore, we are exerting our best efforts to open up a in charge of customer companies, and operated a TF to increase transportation volume sustainable future by utilizing the world's best railroad technology to explore a wide range of overseas railway markets. to overcome the limitations in the existing transportation services. As a result, despite the negative factors such as continued decline of the economic growth rate, we successfully attracted 970,000 tons of items for the national growth base in 2019. In addition, KORAIL has Progress Creating revenue from transportation business through expansion of transportation service improved the railroad logistics transportation process. By establishing transportation by shuttle and optimization of logistics system operation system, we changed the transportation container method from a hopper car and a container/ Maximizing value creation through utilization of railway assets container wagon to a container/container transportation system, and integrated two one-way Strengthening foundation for advancement of inter-Korean and continental railways transportations into one shuttle transportation system, reducing the return of empty cars by Exploring new overseas railroad markets 219 km. Through this, the shortage of freight cars has been resolved, and the transport volume has increased by 140,000 tons, thereby enhancing the productivity of trains through stable responding to demand. Future Plan Establishing and operating railroad logistics process optimized for customers Transportation by Shuttle Creating continued value through utilization of railway assets Container  trengthening exchange and international cooperation network for advancement to S Container + Container Wagon + Container Wagon continental railway and expansion of overseas business Donghae Ipseok-ri Donghae Ipseok-ri Station Station Station Station Unloading iron ore Unloading Empty car return 145㎞ Loading bituminous bituminous coal coal Loading Unloading bituminous coal bituminous coal Container + Empty car Container Hopper Car return 33㎞ 2019-2020 Key Performance Wagon Donghae Yemi Station Station Yemi Empty car return 107㎞ Station Loading iron ore Unloading Loading iron ore iron ore Punctuality Rate of Freight Train (Unit: %) Optimization of Logistics System Operation 85.8 We have optimized the operation of the logistics system to respond to changes in the logistics Creating Revenue from Railway Station 83.9 OSJD Creating Revenue from Overseas Business 80.0 environment, such as a decrease in demand for rail transport resulting from changes in the Development industrial structure. In consideration of the market situation, we reorganized the train operation Holding a Conference of General Directors of OSJD Railways 5 KRW billion KRW 7.6 billion system such as reducing the number of freight trains operation by 730 times per year, and established a real-time operation monitoring system to increase the punctuality rate by 1.9%p compared to the previous year. We expanded the number of freight trains with one engineer and 2017 2018 2019 increased the operation of high-speed and long & large-sized trains to enhance the efficiency of train operation. On the other hand, we improved the way of operating wagons and stations Link to SDGs Related Stakeholders Related Department by converting surplus wagons to non-business use, reducing the maintenance cost of wagons, and reinforcing the transport system at base by reducing the number of freight handling stations Trans Korean Railway and Overseas to 84 stations. In addition, we have reorganized the organization considering the volume of Government / Employees Business Division / Logistics HQs transportation and workload, strengthened marketing and monitoring for each station activity, / Business Development HQs and strived to lay the foundation for sustainable growth of the logistics business. As a result, operating expenses in 2019 decreased by KRW 56.9 billion from 2018, and the operating coefficient improved by 5.3%p. Korean Railway, KORAIL Sustainability Report 2019-20 32 33 S u s t ai n a b ili t y I ss u e s Connecting the Republic of Korea Expanding Communication Channel for Stakeholders and Potential Customers Before and after the development of Developing Station and Improving Outdated Facilities Sungkyunkwan University Station KORAIL has expanded the external communication channels to diversify the logistics industry Before the development of We have carried out a project for developing outdated stations and secure more parking lots to Sungkyunkwan University Station and respond to rapidly changing trends. We formed the logistics business review committee meet the demands of railway users for facility improvements. KORAIL has completed the project and academic and research working groups to strengthen communication with domestic of developing Sungkyunkwan University Station into a complex building by installing entrances, stakeholders, and participated in the Organization for Cooperation between Railways (OSJD) elevators, escalators and other convenient mobility facilities to contribute to the improvement of Freight Subcommittee Meeting and the East Asia Railway Forum to establish overseas convenience for customers. At the same time, we entered into a service agreement with LH to communication channels. In addition, we have increased our external competitiveness by upgrade Geumcheon-gu Office Station into a complex building and reviewed the improvement expanding marketing channels across the logistics industry, such as participating in the logistics plan through analysis on facilities to be introduced into a complex building. In addition, we industry youth recruitment fair to secure future potential customers. started the improvement projects of nine outdated stations, including Mangwol, Banghak, and Shinimun, which will be completed by 2023. KORAIL achieved KRW 5 billion in revenue in 2019 Communication Channel with the Stakeholders in Logistics Business as it developed an old and narrow station into a modernized complex station. On the other Domestics Overseas Potential Customers hand, we have established and are operating a parking building development plan to provide •‌Forming logistics business review committee •‌OJSD Freight Subcommittee Meeting and the East Asia convenient transfers through linkage between car driving and railroad use. For the development •‌Participating in the logistics industry youth After the development of (April 2019) Railway Forum (4th) Sungkyunkwan University Station of the parking lot at Gwangmyeong Station, KORAIL selected a private investor and started recruitment fair (hosted by MOLIT and Ministry of •‌Forming academic and research working groups the construction in December 2019, and we decided to develop parking buildings at Gwangju •‌Establishing regular communication channel with RZD Employment and Labor) (September 2019) ⇢ ‌Introducing current and future status of railway Songjeong and Jeonju Stations and commissioned design services respectively. When the •‌Meeting for private, industry and academic experts •‌Signing MOU between Korea and Poland, and Korea and logistics and consulting about recruitment, etc. debate and information exchange China parking buildings at Gwangmyeong Station, Gwangju Songjeong Station, and Jeonju Station are completed, the total parking spaces are expected to increase by 2,684 cars, generating KRW 7.8 billion in annual revenue. Solar Power Business Boosting the Value of Railway Assets Developing Unused Railroad Land Private Solar Power Business Using Railway Building As the downtown hollowing phenomenon is accelerating due to the lack of housing facilities for the youth and the ordinary people in the station area, KORAIL is supplying high-quality KORAIL actively utilizes buildings that are railway assets, to promote private solar power KORAIL residential facilities for the youth and the ordinary people on unused land near stations where business. After selecting the roof of a building such as a station as a target site, we proceed with transportation is convenient. In August 2020, we plan to supply 299 rental housing units near bidding for private power-generation companies, and sign a lease agreement with the selected Wangsimni Station, and to start the construction of 1,208 officetel units near Bupyeong Station Provision of company to receive rental fees for the provision of railway buildings. In 2019, we designated the Rent in 2020 as we obtained the construction permit. We started the construction of 145 urban infrastructures Siheung-Byeongjeom vehicle depot and the onboard parking lot at Busan Station as target sites, housing units near Yeongdeungpo Station and expect to complete the construction in 2021. In executed the bidding, signed a lease agreement, and supported the solar power business. As a Power addition, in cooperation with local governments and LH to build public housing at unused sites generation result, it produced 3,468MW of eco-friendly energy per year, created 56 jobs, and secured a total business near the Geumcheon-gu Office Station, Shinimun Station, and Ilsan Station, KORAIL will continue of KRW 3 billion in rental income for 20 years which will start from 2021. KORAIL will continue to to play its social role through continuous value-creation activities utilizing railroad assets. create social and economic value by actively utilizing its infrastructure. Revenue from commercial Sales of power power supply Developing Core Station Sphere Conference of General Directors of OSJD Railways Inter-Korean and Continental Railway & Overseas Railway Business Commercial KORAIL carries out station area development projects for core station areas such as Seoul power supplier Station. We cooperated with the Seoul Metropolitan Government to reduce the public Strengthening Foundation for Advancing into Inter-Korean and Continental Railway contributions ratio in order to improve the business feasibility of the station area in the northern KORAIL makes various efforts, including actively cooperating with government policies and part of Seoul Station, and we plan to create a representative high-density and mixed land strengthening exchanges and cooperation with Eurasian continental railway operating countries platform in Gangbuk after selecting business operator and concluding agreement. In order to and international railroad organizations in order to lay the foundation for the possible eventual Development of Station Areas increase the business feasibility of the Yongsan Hospital site, we cooperated with Yongsan-gu linkage of the Korean Peninsula and continental railroads. office to resolve development restrictions such as the abolition of general hospitals and complex In April 2019, a Conference of General Directors of Organization for Cooperation between use of cultural properties. We signed an agreement with business operators through bidding Railways (OSJD), attended by 300 people from 20 countries, was successfully held to raise after upgrading use land. In addition, KORAIL operated an official consultative body with the the status of KORAIL, and an interpretation of two OSJD government agreements and seven Seoul Metropolitan Government to discuss development guidelines for Yongsan Station area conventions was produced, laying the foundation for the enactment and revision of company development, and commissioned an environmentally specialized public institution to clean regulations for railroad operation. We are actively cooperating with the Korean government to up the contaminated land. In addition, we signed an agreement with the Seoul Metropolitan join the OSJD government agreement. In addition, we are continuously discussing international Government to develop the Susaek Station and Gwangwoon University Station areas and began train operation plans such as holding workshops in cooperation with government departments to develop those areas in earnest. The development of the DMC station in the Susaek Station and the competent authorities to establish the international train transportation process. And we area is currently underway, and there are plans underway to proceed with the development are making practical preparations for the operation of the continental railway, such as preparing of the railway facility site. For the development of the Kwangwoon University Station area, [Simulation Plan for the Border Station] and a [Detailed Train Operation Plan for International we selected the business operator in 2017, and we are now pursuing licensing and approval Passenger and Freight Railway]. for the project aiming at commencing construction in 2021. We will continue to expand the development of core station areas to vitalize the economy and strive for railroad operation. Korean Railway, KORAIL Sustainability Report 2019-20 34 35 S u s t ai n a b ili t y I ss u e s Connecting the Republic of Korea Communication for Advancing into Furthermore, we are striving to nurture continental railroad experts by continuously sharing Inter-Korean and Continental Railway information on trends related to inter-Korean railway through the entire company, forming a Together with the People Creating Public Consensus consensus, and conducting training for continental railway experts three times per year since 2014. On the other hand, KORAIL is making various efforts to build a public consensus on the future Realizing Social Value for the People •Meeting for private companies (February, June, and connection of the continental railway, such as meetings with private companies, the establishment October) of a new railroad museum and viewing zone, the production of a continental railway route map, •Establishing the Inter-Korean Railway viewing zone (In May, Uiwang Railway Museum) the attraction of trains at the Peace and Unification Education Experience Center at Jejin Station, •Busan International Railway Technology Industry and participation in the Korean Association for Policy Studies. At the same time, we are further Business & KORAIL regards the reinforcement of public service as its core value. By actively utilizing railroad assets and creating Exhibition (In June) strengthening the communication with the public, the government, Eurasian continental railway jobs, and expanding recruitment for the self-reliance of the socially underprivileged, we strive to increase decent jobs * East Asia Railway Talk Concert Social Context •Raising interest in academic fields (March, operation bureau and related organizations, building a cooperation system with the government for the people. In addition, we are implementing a railroad service experience program in consideration of the socially September, and November) and the competent authorities through participation in East Asian railway community forums underprivileged, expanding concessionary fares for the public for the mobility handicapped, and public transportation * ‌Participating in the Korean Association for Policy Studies and others (3 times) and policy seminars. Furthermore, by continuously establishing global partnerships, such as means for residents in traffic blind spots, and taking the lead in providing convenient and comfortable rail service for all signing an MOU between KORAIL-Poland Railway, Korea-France Railway Technology Exchange citizens. Furthermore, we focus on creating shared value by practicing win-win growth and cooperation with various social Together with the Government Meeting, Korea-Russia (RZD) Joint Research, and Korea-Russia Railway Cooperation Meeting, we communities such as social enterprises and SMEs. KORAIL will continue to develop together with the people by realizing Strengthening Implementation Base are introducing the excellence of KORAIL to the world, preparing and strengthening the basis for social values for the people with a delicate and warm heart. •Supporting East Asia Railroad Community Forum advancement in preparation for linkage with the the future continental railway. and Policy Seminar (4 times) •Supporting government policies and establishing Progress Creating jobs utilizing characteristics of business Opening shops to support the employment cooperation with local governments and competent of people with hearing impairment authorities Exploring New Overseas Railroad Markets * ‌Government Meeting for Inter-Korean Railway Expanding public transportation means Improving traffic access of the underprivileged Cooperation (12 times) In order to strategically explore overseas markets, KORAIL is identifying additional projects for the underprivileged and reducing freight burden * ‌Four institutions including Busan City targeting the countries where it has entered. In the Asian region, we are expanding our business Strengthening support system Together with the Continent area from technology consulting to operation of business. Currently, we are providing a technical for social economic companies advisory service for Metro Line 7 in Manila, Philippines, and we are strengthening our business Establishing Partnership for Exchange and Cooperation capabilities by establishing a branch in the Philippines to participate in the operation and •Signing an MOU with Poland Railway (in April) maintenance business of the same line, dispatching experts and increasing technical manpower. In Future Plan Expanding shops to support the employment Continuously creating decent jobs •Korea-France Railway Technology Exchange of people with hearing impairment Meeting (in May) addition, we are exploring additional markets efficiently by expanding the markets to neighboring •Korea-Russia Railway Cooperation Meeting (in Implementing plan to make lines countries such as Myanmar and Bangladesh based on the Philippines branch, providing consulting for the remote rural areas as planned September) * ‌Discussing the plan for pilot transportation between on rolling stock purchase, and participating in new business bidding with private companies. South and North Koreas and Russia Meanwhile, in the Africa region, we are expanding business from railway construction consulting •Signing MOU with China Railway (in November) * ‌Jointly developing cargo transportation and thirdto a new business field. KORAIL is jointly conducting the railroad technical advisory services country markets for the Tanzania Central Line with private companies, and we are conducting related projects 2019-2020 Key Performance such as training for engineer engineers as a related business. In addition, we are exploring new Operating profit from overseas business markets by identifying the railroad feasibility study project in Namibia with private companies and Based on annual average growth rate jointly participating in bidding. Moreover, we have established an external cooperation system 6% growth per year (KRW 6 billion in 2015 → KRW 7.6 billion in 2019) to gradually expand the scale of overseas business and are concentrating to build up internal capabilities. We have formed and operated a consultative body to support overseas expansion of the railroad industry, with Korea Rail Network Authority and Korea Railroad Research Institute, and newly established and operated in-house training to strengthen job competency in overseas business. As a result, the overseas operating profit of KORAIL continued to grow, recording 6% CAGR from KRW 6 billion in 2015 to KRW 7.6 billion in 2019, and we are continuously making Creating jobs in the private sectors for Concessionary fares for the public for efforts to make achievements by participating in three international biddings, developing 4 new Winner of Grand Prize Strategy to Expand Regionally Based Hubs businesses, and discovering five public development assistance projects. 11,420persons for ‘2019 Social Contribution’, in the job creation sector 1,220,000persons/year in Overseas Markets Link to SDGs Related Stakeholders Related Department Office of Future Planning and People / Government Innovative Strategy /Office of Financial Management / Passenger Transport HQs *Advancing into Neighboring Countries after Securing Region Based Hub Korean Railway, KORAIL Sustainability Report 2019-20 36 37 S u s t ai n a b ili t y I ss u e s Connecting the Republic of Korea Realization of Social Values Job Creation Strategic Systems for Realizing Social Values Creating jobs utilizing characteristics of business Model of KTX-Sancheon High-Speed Train KORAIL is working hard to create social values by setting up five major strategic directions KORAIL took the lead in creating jobs in the private sector by conducting projects utilizing with the aim of ‘realizing social values through the strengthened public nature of railways’, and characteristics of businesses such as localization of imported parts and procurement projects. We selecting 14 tasks to systematically realize them. have created 407 jobs by establishing the foundation for growth for SMEs through localization of railroad technology, implementation of national R&D research projects, and advancement into Goal and Tasks to Realize Social Values overseas markets. We also created 8,258 jobs through procurement projects such as railroad Goal Realizing Social Values by Strengthening the Pubic Nature of Railways business-related parts purchase and rolling stocks purchase and renovation. In addition, a total of Achieving smart safety Strengthening Making win-win Implementing ethical 11,420 private jobs were created in 2019 by creating 956 jobs through consignment projects for Strategic Creating socially and ecofriendly universal railway cooperation and developing management based on specialized job services such as elevator maintenance, and 1,758 jobs through development of Directions integrated jobs railways services local communities communications and trust The K-Model Team, an in-house venture team of station areas and activation of tourism products and related transportation services. Meanwhile, Strengthening KORAIL, manufactured the KTX-Sancheon Establishing a Expanding chances Realizing reliable Main Tasks system for smart Improving job railway-based of win-win railway railways with model, which precisely reduced KTX-Sancheon KORAIL is contributing to job creation in a new way that comes out of the box, such as fostering quality mobility rights for Classification Main Tasks safety management the public cooperation integrity to 1/87 ratio. The model was produced based on in-house ventures and commercializing a representative railroad brand. KORAIL, which has the actual design drawings of KTX-Sancheon Discovering and checking Expanding safety Realizing services Diversifying shared Branding happy from seating arrangement to the lower part formed three venture teams (K-model Team, Rail Cell Team, and Premium Vending Machine tasks to be implemented, Creating internal job Secretariat Tasks investments in positions customized for economy business trains and other irregularities exactly copying the design drawing, Team) through public offerings, is carrying out new business based on its brand and ideas. Managing steering committee decrepit railways underprivileged models social contributions and, only a total of 2,009 units were produced and network in general and sold, receiving great responses from In 2019, the K-model Team produced and sold a precisely scaled-down Korean high-speed Reducing transport Systemizing safety Realizing ecofriendly Creating jobs in the fares for the public by Contributing to consumers. train (KTX-Sancheon), and achieved sales of over KRW 100 million in 5 days through advance Safety & railways private sector providing public boosting local management, Preventing economies reservation, creating 56 jobs. Environment concessionary fare industrial disasters, Reducing Team find dust Achievement in Private Job Creation Addressing irregular job Job issues, Steering Committee Creation Hiring new employees, Team Developing jobs for the KORAIL has established ‘The Steering Bureau for Realizing Social Values’ headed by the vice Parts localization, Nurturing future Procurement business private sectors president in order to achieve social values. The Bureau comprises five teams including the business (448 persons) 11,420 (8,258 persons) HQ Enhancing transport system, persons Office of Future Planning and Innovative Strategy, which controls the overall operation of the Promotion of local economy, (24 Transport fare system, transfer system in total Consignment business development of station area People Business and other convenience Bureau and 17 regional steering committees. The five teams of the Bureau, including Safety & (956 persons) (1,758 persons) in Five Team matters when using the Environment Team, Job Creation Team, Transport Business Team, Win-Win Cooperation Team Teams) railway and Ethical Management Team, are implementing tasks in responding to the government’s Expanding marketing Win-Win channels for SMEs and social evaluations of our business management, to quantitative objectives and to other specialized Creating Jobs for the underprivileged Partnership enterprises, Vitalizing the evaluations, while 17 regional steering committees are supporting the projects carried out by regional economy To create jobs for the person with hearing impairment, KORAIL signed a business agreement the Bureau and working to establish and develop regional cooperation networks. KORAIL is Eradicating unfair contracts, with Busan City, Korea Rail Network Authority, SR Co., Ltd., and Korea Employment Agency Ethical Addressing unfair business improving its ability to realize social values mainly led by ‘The Steering Committee for Realizing for Persons with Disabilities (KEAD), and opened ‘Seomseom Oksu,’ a nail care store operated Management practices, Protecting human Social Values,’ taking the initiative in realizing social value for the public. Team rights, Strengthening social by the person with hearing impairment, at Busan Station. ‘Seomseom Oksu,’ KORAIL’s first job contributions support store for the disabled, is run by six people with hearing impairment who have completed Organization Chart of The Steering Committee for Realizing Social Value Supporting and implementing specialized training in nail care, and provides free nail care services to customers with train tickets Regional Driving HQ’s tasks, Operating regional The Steering Committee for Realizing Social Divisions (17 of Them) on the same day. Through this project, KORAIL created six direct jobs and 30 indirect jobs, and cooperation network Values (Headed by: Vice-President) Secretariat (Headed by: Chief of Office of Future Planning we plan to expand brand stores to Seoul Station and other areas to create more jobs for persons and Innovative Strategy) with hearing impairments. HQs (Five Teams) Safety & Environment Team Job Creation Team Transport Business Team Win-Win Cooperation Team Ethical Management Team Regional Driving Divisions(17 of Them) West Metropolitan East Metropolitan Gangwon Chungbuk Daejeon & Chungnam Jeonbuk Gwangju Jeonnam Seoul Department Department Department Department Department Department Department Department Department Gyeongbuk Daegu Busan & Gyeongnam Talent Nurturing Metropolitan Daejeon Maintenance Busan Maintenance Honam Maintenance Department Department Department Institute Maintenance Division Division Division Division Best Practice Since 2018, KORAIL has converted 6,753 non-regular workers into regular workers, provided free railroad technical certification training for young job seekers, and promoted nail care services operated by the ‘2019 Social Contribution’ people with hearing impairment, and has been recognized for its efforts to create jobs for the youth, Progress In the job creation sector women, and the socially underprivileged. KORAIL was awarded the Minister of Social Affairs Award (Minister of Education Award), a Grand Prize for ‘2019 Social Contribution’ in job creation sector. KORAIL will In order to achieve social values aligned with the governmental tasks, we established the Social Winner of Grand Prize continue to take the lead in realizing social values by creating jobs for the self-reliance of the socially disadvantaged. Value Division under the Office of Future Planning and Innovative Strategy, and we have defined the concept of KORAIL’s unique social values and set up directions in advancing relevant projects. Having the new vision proclamation ceremony, we placed the realization of social values on top of the management goals and we completed the establishment of ‘mid/long-term social value systems.’ Korean Railway, KORAIL Sustainability Report 2019-20 38 39 S u s t ai n a b ili t y I ss u e s Connecting the Republic of Korea Creating Jobs for the Underprivileged in Employment Achievement in Expansion of Public Operating Concessionary Fares for the Public for the Underprivileged Transportation Means KORAIL has provided employment and career development opportunities to the elderly, Expanding railways connected with public taxies KORAIL expands concessionary fares for the public to reduce the transportation burden of the homeless, low-income, and young people using stations, which are assets of the railway. We 40stations underprivileged including pregnant women and multi-child families. In order to increase the hired the elderly as helpers to maintain safety and order inside stations, creating jobs for 1,573 31stations 9stations convenience of pregnant women and their families who use KTX, we expanded the benefits people, and paying transportation and food expenses to elderly culture guiders who served of the ‘Mom-Comfortable KTX’ product to support not only pregnant women, but also one at the railway museum without payment to inspire their will to work. In addition, in order to guardian to use VIP room at the regular fare. In addition, we eased the registration criteria for provide jobs for the homeless, we have expanded the environment cleanup project, which the ‘Multi-Child Happiness’ product from three or more children to two or more, and provided was conducted only in the Seoul Station Plaza, to Daejeon Station and Cheongnyangni Station, 2018 2019 30%-off concessionary fares for an adult ticket, when more than three members of a verified creating jobs for 75 people, and expanded the on-site car wash service inside the parking lots of multi-child family travel. In addition, as a result of expanding the number of beneficiaries by Adding railways connected with public buses station from 3 stations to 25 stations, creating 50 jobs. Furthermore, we created 16 jobs through increasing the age of children who can use railway free of charge from under four under six years 2station the youth entrepreneurship support project, which gives store management rights to young of age, the number of beneficiaries of the concessionary fares for the public has increased from entrepreneurs with excellent business items. KORAIL will faithfully fulfill its social responsibility as 696,000 in 2018 to 1.22million in 2019. a public institution by operating and expanding various job creation programs that support the 2station independence of the underprivileged. 0station Expanding Public Transportation Means for the Citizens in Traffic Blind Spot 2018 2019 KORAIL has expanded public transportation means to increase the convenience of railroad use Results of Supporting Jobs for the Underprivileged Number of passengers who use public for residents in the traffic blind spots. In 2018, KORAIL introduced a service linking public taxis Job Support for the Youth Job Support for the Elderly Job Support for the Underprivileged transportation means and railway stations operated by local governments for the convenience of residents who had 1,176persons 1,621persons 131persons 8,429persons difficulty using the railroad due to the low frequency of buses and the distance to the bus stop. 72.4% Subsequently, in 2019, we increased the public taxi-linked railway stations from 31 stations to 90.3% 76persons 138.1% 852persons 162.9% 494persons 3,206persons 40 stations, and launched public transportation services two railway stations by introducing new public buses, further improving railway accessibility of resident in remote areas. The number of passengers using railroad-related services in 2019 increased to 8,429 people, an increase of 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 162.9% from the previous year. KORAIL plans to continuously expand its services and strive to enhance the public interest of the railroad. Universal Railway Services Multi-Child Happiness Promoting Lines for the Remote Rural Areas Youth Dream KTX Experience Program for the Underprivileged KORAIL strives to promote the lines for the remote rural areas so that all citizens can enjoy universal railroad services regardless of region and environment. In order to promote the KORAIL has operated the ‘KTX Hope Experience Ticket,’ under which people can use KTX for railway tourism belt in areas where the population is declining, such as the Jeongseon Line free, to the elderly and the disabled living in the Busan, Ulsan, and Gyeongnam areas, where there and Gyeongbuk Line, we have prepared a plan to additionally develop a unique tourist train. are few opportunities to use KTX. This project was designed considering the wish of an elderly In addition, in cooperation with local governments, we transformed whistle stops such as Busan citizen, who said ‘It is my wish to ride KTX someday.’ Under the program, companies and Buncheon Station (Santa Village), Deukryang Station (Memorial Street), Yeonsan Station (Cultural local governments purchased KTX experience tickets produced by KORAIL and provided the Experience for Children), and Samtan Station (Healing Forest) to theme stations, and built tourist tickets to the underprivileged for free. Through this, 3,547 customers experienced KTX, and 1,321 attraction in connection with local tourism resources. As such, we are making efforts to develop people used the travel program linked to the destination. A total of 4,868 people used the KTX railways in remote areas. We will contribute to the revitalization of the line in remote areas Hope Experience Ticket. We will continue to actively reflect the people’s suggestions and be through development of unique railway tourism products, creation of a railway theme park, and committed to establishing universal railway services so that no people are marginalized in using development of rail buses for remote areas. railroad. Introducing Direct Call Service for the Underprivileged in IT Key Achievements in Provision of Concessionary Fares for the Public Number of Members Registered Users Eligible for Multi-Child We introduced a direct call service for the underprivileged in IT sectors so that anyone can easily Children Eligible for Free Ride for Multi-Child Families Family Discounted Tickets Mom-Comfortable KTX purchase tickets. Using a direct call service that connects directly to the call center without going 90,000 persons 110,000 persons 1,020,000 persons Come On Youth through an automatic response system (ARS), subscribers of the preferential reservation service such as senior citizens, national merit, and the disabled makes a call to the railroad customer 638,000 persons 59.8% center. We support KORAIL members over the age of 70 years so that they can be automatically 492.9% 616.1% 15,000 persons 15,000 persons registered for preferential reservation service in order to increase the convenience of the underprivileged in the era of IT. 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 Korean Railway, KORAIL Sustainability Report 2019-20 40 41 S u s t ai n a b ili t y I ss u e s Connecting the Republic of Korea Support for Ecosystem for Social Economy On-site Car Wash Business of Self-Support Creating Customized Self-Support Ecosystem Enterprise in the Station Direction for Win-Win Cooperation with Social Economy Enterprises We support development of social enterprises and sales channels by identifying representative cooperation projects that fit the railroad space. To assist on-site car wash business of selfWe are reinforcing a win-win cooperation and support system for social economy enterprises, support enterprises, KORAIL continues to give active supports by providing parking and car such as social enterprises, cooperatives, village enterprises, and self-supporting enterprises. To washing spaces in station parking lots, posting promotional materials related to on-site car wash this end, KORAIL supports social economy enterprises to create stores and living culture spaces in the station, and discounting parking and car wash fees to railroad customers. The self-support that reflect the characteristics of each station and region by using idle spaces in the railway enterprise’s on-site car wash business was conducted in three locations as a pilot project in 2018, stations. In addition, we pursue cooperative projects with the aim of creating jobs that fit the and it has been expanded to 29 locations nationwide in 2019, creating 60 jobs and ensuring space within the station, such as parking lots, and supports the development of markets by continuous development. identifying social economy enterprises linked to the tourism business, which is a representative Meanwhile, to support the livelihood and childcare of unwed mothers, KORAIL provides business railway business, strengthening win-win cooperation with social economy enterprises, and spaces to operate restaurants within the station, and renders technical education and childcontributing to fostering an independent ecosystem of social economy. rearing support together with Busan City and Green Umbrella Child Fund Korea. We cut the sales commission rate in half and provided consulting on the overall operation of the business site in Permanent Store Startup in the Station, etc. On-site Car Wash Service of Self-Support Enterprise Social Value Creation Contest order to support the ramen restaurant ‘One Sodang Bowl’ that opened in Busan Station. Sodang Cafe in Busan Station operated by single mothers was fostered as a preliminary social enterprise in 2019, creating 10 jobs. In addition, KORAIL contributes to fostering young entrepreneurs and creating jobs by fostering social Creating 58 shops (Increased by 50 in 2019 from 8 in 2018) Expanding to 29 Best Award entrepreneurs. We built a space for fostering social ventures at Gajwa Station, and supported fostering social enterprise by providing youth with an opportunity to experience catering business through the (in 2019, Ministry of Employment and Labor) shops nationwide Kitchen Lab at Gyeongsan Station. As such, we are actively carrying out activities realizing social value through the development of space customized business. Supporting Sales Start-up Utilizing Space in the Station Introducing Fair Railway Travel KORAIL actively utilizes the spaces in the railway stations to support sales and start-ups of KORAIL introduced fair rail travel to identify and foster social enterprises connected with tourism social economy enterprises. We are creating new spaces for permanent stores and pop-up business. First of all, we selected Gyeongsangbuk-do as a region for introduction of fair railway stores in the station by searching available spaces at each regional headquarters and stations, travel, and launched a pilot product for fair travel between Seoul and Yeongju in collaboration and suggesting space utilization to companies, local governments, and social economy support with social enterprise travel agencies, and then, added fair travel products linked to railroads such centers. as Andong-Gyeongju and Pohang-Bonghwa railways. As a result, we supported the development In 2019, as many as 20 stores were opened in the community center at Neunggok Station on of a market for social enterprises in the travel industry. In 2019, a total of 800 customers used the Gyeongui Line, as well as in station spaces across the country for the promotion of social the fair railway travel services, and we achieved the results of discovering 16 social enterprises economy enterprises and product sales, and nine shops and cultural living spaces were opened in in the fields of experience, lodging, and restaurants representing the region, including travel stations across the country including Joseong Station on the Gyeongjeon Line. In addition, during agencies. KORAIL plans to continue its diverse supports so that social enterprises can actively the Chuseok holiday, Korea’s Thanksgiving day, pop-up stores in 12 major stations across the enter the tourism field with high social value. country in which 120 social enterprises and cooperatives joined were opened, displaying special products. In addition, when there is demand, flea markets and day-of-week markets are held Fair Railway Travel Cooperation System nationwide at any time, and railway stations are expanded as a space for business start-ups and even a place for people to live. Social Business Cooperative of Council Social Enterprises in Gyeongsangbuk-do Gyeongsangbuk-do Social Economy Enterprise Special Trade Show (Social Enterprise (Integrated Support Group) Institute by Region) Selected as one of the Best Companies Operated Fair Railway Travel KORAIL PR, recruitment, discount Gyeongsangbuk-do Administrative support KORAIL Sustainability Report 2019-20 43 S u s t a i n a b i l i t y Iss u e s Korean Railway, Customer-oriented convenient railway service connecting customers Business & Recently, customer-related issues have become critical as customer needs have diversified, and there are growing Social Context expectations of the public role of KORAIL as an institution operating the national transportation network. Accordingly, KORAIL strives to secure public interest by creating a railroad environment in which all citizens can use the rail network safely and conveniently. KORAIL develops products that reflect customers’ opinions, and gradually improves service quality from the customers’ perspective In addition, we are working to deliver customer-delight experience that goes beyond mere customer satisfaction by providing the best customer service based on safety, such as enhancing the value of time for customers with world-class, on-time operation. Progress Improving service by strengthening the voice of customers (VOC) analysis system Developing a ticket reservation service tailored to people's modern lifestyles by linking with portal companies and social networks Enhancing customer convenience by expanding internal and external systems and improving service Enhancing on-time operation by identifying and improving train delay factors Future Plan Strengthening customer communication and continuously reflecting needs Actively implementing ticket reservation service linked to portal companies and social network Enhancing competitiveness through activation of railroad-linked transportation system 2019-2020 Key Performance For 6th year in a row VOC on poor air-conditioning systems Linked to portal companies and social network (KTX 99.82%, ordinary train 99.51%) Achieved the world’s highest Decreased by 65.7% year on year Developed ticket reservation service punctuality Customeroriented Link to SDGs Related Stakeholders Related Department convenient railway service Passenger Transport HQ Customers / Marketing & Customer Service Division Korean Railway, KORAIL Sustainability Report 2019-20 44 45 S u s t ai n a b ili t y I ss u e s connecting customers Customer Communication Ticket connected through social media Improving Service Quality Received VOC during Chuseok holiday Reinforcing ability to respond to VOC through upgraded analysis of VOC More Convenient Ticketing Service Daily average number of VOC KORAIL endeavors to deliver customer satisfaction through service improvement and quality KORAIL has simplified the ticketing and refund process for better customer convenience. On 49cases enhancement reflecting the voices of customers. We have built our own VOC web analysis the website and via KORAIL Talk, we have expanded services such as the simple sign-in with KORAIL Talk 22.4% 38cases system to collect customer opinions and analyze them systematically. Based on such results, we simple payment, Kakao Pay and PAYCO associated with the website and KORAIL Talk in order are checking trends of customer complaints that are repeatedly reported or that may occur in to minimize payment processes. In addition, customers can search and book tickets via ‘Naver’ the future, and improving our services accordingly. In addition, we are continuously improving and ‘KakaoTalk,’ and we plan to develop and commercialize the ‘SNS-linked ticket reservation the quality of railroad services based on an advanced VOC system, such as continuously service’ that allows customers to purchase tickets using ‘N Pay’ and ‘Kakao Pay.’ In addition, Chuseok holiday in 2018 Chuseok holiday in 2019 monitoring the improvement status of VOC and publishing Weekly VOC News to share major we are expanding railroad services in consideration of customer convenience, in line with the achievements by issue. As a result of implementing precautionary activities in preparation for rapidly growing online platform market trend, such as developing a life-friendly railroad service Received customer VOC about poor airthe Chuseok holiday, when there are many customer complaints, based on the VOC analysis that enables customers to purchase tickets, guides them in station parking lots, and connects conditioning systems system, the average daily VOC reported during the Chuseok holiday in 2019 decreased by 22.4% them with traffic guidance services. In addition, KORAIL has improved the functions of “Korail VOC on poor air-conditioning systems compared to the previous year. In addition, in order to reduce VOCs on poor air-conditioning Talk,” a smartphone app., in order to provide optimized ticketing services to regular customers. 207cases systems in the summer, special inspections and maintenance of air conditioning systems were We introduced the ‘Push One-Touch Easy Purchase Service,’ which allows customers who have Ticketing Process on Kakao Talk conducted in preparation for heatwaves, resulting in a 65.7% decrease in customer complaints previously registered train reservation information to receive previous reservation information 65.7% on poor air-conditioning in 2019 compared to the previous year. via KORAIL Talk Push notification, and purchase tickets immediately without entering repeated 71cases Enter departures One-click reservation information. Meanwhile, as we introduced a real-time refund processing service Service Improvement Process through VOC Analysis and arrivals payment in cooperation with the Korea Financial Telecommunications and Clearings Institute, we are station Chuseok holiday in 2018 Chuseok holiday in 2019 processing refunds in real time that were previously delayed for up to seven days. As such we Plan On-time VOC analysis Preemptive responses to VOC Do •Weekly, monthly, half-yearly issue analysis and improvement Check the are enhancing customer convenience through continuous system improvement. Complete •Promptly considering countermeasures and train •Establishing VOC web analysis system of booking improving service schedule KORAIL Reducing Customers’ Burden by Launching Concessionary Fares * ‌Strengthening VOC statistical function •Holding HOT-VOC meeting and sharing information with employees KORAIL has eased the financial burden for commuting customers in the Seoul metropolitan area * ‌Operating anonymity system for service VOE by operating a “Special Price of KTX 5,000” that allows customers to use KTX for short sections in the busy metropolitan area. Customer can use it at a 40% lower price than the existing fares, Action Evaluation and feedback Check Monitoring VOC improvement status and it takes 15 minutes from Seoul Station to Gwangmyeong Station and 20 minutes from Seoul •Rewarding employees who prevent VOC •Continuing the monitoring and controlling complaints Station to Haengsin Station. It shortens the commuting time by up to one hour, thus receiving •Analyzing and sharing the results of each issue •Sharing weekly VOC news and performance * ‌Checking current status and providing field positive responses from customers. In addition, KORAIL has additionally launched a customized * ‌Publicizing VOC improvement results to the Persons consulting (half-yearly) ‘KTX N Card’ for commuting couples and customers on business trips. ‘KTX N Card’, a mobilebased discount card, is a ticket for pre-determined times and routes with a set number of trips Results of Collecting Customers’ Opinions of a customer’s choice, receiving discounts of up to 40% on KTX tickets. Reflecting the opinions of existing single-person N-card users, KORAIL launched ‘KTX N Card for two passengers,’ where In order to reduce repetitive complaints and minimize customer complaints, KORAIL actively two Persons designate two sections and use them together, and ‘Card for Three Sections,’ which collects customer opinions and quickly makes improvements. We strive to deliver a customerallows one person to designate and use three sections. We have reduced the financial burden delight experience that goes beyond customer satisfaction by creating a railroad environment that for customers who do not frequently use rail services, as well as office workers who travel can be used conveniently by all citizens by improving services that customers can directly feel. frequently. “KORAIL has changed, listening to the customers’ opinions!” Membership Lounge Creating a Pleasant Railroad Environment “The ticket refund penalty is too high” “Please allow customers KORAIL constantly improves facilities so that customers can use clean and convenient railroad “It is difficult for the elderly to call “Please improve the standards for applying penalty fee for to change train bookings “I cannot see the the customer service center” facilities. KORAIL has renovated membership lounges at five stations nationwide (Seoul, Yongsan, “Close” button of the transfer tickets” via KORAIL Talk app” toilet, and tables and “Aren't there any delay notifications “The delay compensation for KTX starts from 20 minutes after “It’s bothersome to enter Daejeon, Dongdaegu, and Busan Stations) to expand personal space and install Train Information chairs are dirty” for trains I purchased tickets for the scheduled time, then why is it from 40 minutes the same information through the KORAIL Talk app?” Display System (TIDS), air purifiers, and speed gates. In addition, to create a pleasant toilet for ordinary trains?” every time” environment, we installed non-slip tiles, LED lights, and etiquette bells, etc. In some stations, a large pictogram was installed at the entrance of the toilet so that anyone can easily find a toilet, A A A A and safety handles were placed in each compartment, for the customers’ convenience and •Improving the whole •Directly connecting calls of seniors to the •There is no refund penalty on the day of purchase •Times and seats can be protection. As a result of these efforts, Daegu Station (Grand Prize), Pyeongchang Station (Silver lock system of toilets reservation center changed up to three hours •Different standards for each early and late departure time are applied. Award), and Anlak Station (Bronze Award) were awarded the ‘Beautiful Toilet’ awards at the 21st •ncreasing the number •Establishing an information-sharing before departure system under unusual circumstances •Compensation standards for ordinary train have been adjusted (same as KTX) of cleaning personnel, •Ticket can be bought awards ceremony. and introducing steam * ‌Giving push notification through social * ‌(Existing) 40 minutes or more → (after improvement) 20 minutes or through convenient online cleaning network or KORAIL Talk more service Korean Railway, KORAIL Sustainability Report 2019-20 46 47 S u s t ai n a b ili t y I ss u e s connecting customers Electric Wheelchair Lift Expanding Convenience Facilities for the Underprivileged Railroad Emergency Response Drills Increasing KTX Punctuality rate In order to strengthen the right to travel for the underprivileged, we have expanded convenience KORAIL has focused on reinforcing the safety of the train operation system with the recognition facilities. In order to enhance convenience in using trains for the disabled, we have installed more that if the safety of train operation is secured first, the punctuality rate will also improve. To this electric wheelchair lifts and electric wheelchair quick chargers. In addition, we have repaired all end, we received customized safety consulting and emergency response training to improve the obsolete or damaged Braille signs for the visually impaired and installed signs for the location ability to cope with train operation failures. In addition, we created new vehicle operation manuals of wheelchair-disabled seats on the platform safety gates. In addition, we have expanded lift and provided customized training to cultivate emergency response capabilities to strengthen the facilities such as escalators and elevators, added additional signs for pregnant women's seats, capabilities of the crew, and to improve the safety of train operation by updating the operating and expanded nursing rooms for the convenience of customers with infants. As such, KORAIL system in accordance with the establishment of new routes, and to manage the punctuality rate. constantly strives to create a railroad environment in which anyone can easily and conveniently In addition, by analyzing the key factors that cause train delays, we are intensively managing use trains by expanding convenience facilities for the underprivileged. habitual delay of trains and we introduced an IoT-based real-time unmanned rail temperature measurement system to prevent the rise of track temperature in summer, etc., and implemented customized solutions to improve on-time operation. As a result of these efforts, the punctual Improving Time Value for Customers operation rate of KTX in 2019 was 99.82%, achieving the ‘World’s highest punctuality rate for six consecutive years.’ Establishing Railroad Transportation Network by Strengthening Accessibility Train Punctuality Rate (Unit: %) *based on punctual operation set by UIC Gwangmyong Station City Airport Terminal KORAIL strives to increase customer convenience as well as value of time by promoting railroadcentered connected transportation services. In line with the growing preference for overseas KTX General trains travel, Air Busan opened a new counter at city airport terminal in Gwangmyeong Station, 99.79 99.82 99.76 99.51 enhancing the convenience of customers using Incheon Airport as all the domestic airlines 99.30 98.14 have counters in the Station. In addition, as a result of promoting the use of city airport station through various events such as an event celebrating one million customers, the number of customers who use both check-in service and limousine bus has increased. Meanwhile, KORAIL has formed an alliance with ‘Green Car,’ a car-sharing company, and launched an integrated reservation service that allows customers to make reservations from train tickets to rental cars 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 using the smartphone app KORAIL Talk.’ In addition, we have expanded the service-use section to 649 locations in 141 stations nationwide, which led to an increase in the number of rental car Increasing Punctuality rate of General Trains users to 2,832 persons in 2019, an increase of 131% compared to 2018. KORAIL will do its best We have improved the train operation speed by improving the facilities and signaling system to make the railroad a transportation hub by establishing a railroad transportation network that is of general trains, thereby improving the punctuality rate. In order to resolve delays caused by easy for customers to access. competition between KTX and general trains, we installed a new track switch at Geumcheon-gu * ‌In-filled Balise (Controlled Balise): It refers to the Office Station, eliminating waiting time outside the train signal. In addition, KORAIL installed inbeacons situated along the railway track, which transmits the signal to the train filled Balise* and adjusted its position to eliminate the speed limit when stopping and waiting for departure, and changed the signal system in the field from three-display configuration (G, Y, R) to Number of Customers who Use Check-in Service Number of Customers who Use Limousine Buses Expanding the Operation of Express Trains five-display configuration (G, YG, Y, YY, R) to improve train speed and shorten the delay time. In 388times addition, we adjusted train schedules to enhance customer safety and improve service, ultimately 95,000 persons 395,000 persons preventing delay in train schedule. As a result, the punctuality rate of general trains increased by 366,000 persons 7.9% 362times 26times 0.21%p from the previous year to 99.51%, and the delay time was shortened by an average of 20.3% 518 minutes per day. As such, KORAIL was committed to keeping the time for customers. 79,000 persons Reducing Traveling Time by Expanding the Operation of Express Trains 2018 2019 In order to shorten the travel time for customers, KORAIL has expanded the operation of express trains on the Gyeongbu Line by 26 times and maintained operation interval of 30 minutes. In Reducing Traveling Time addition, by converting general trains to express trains, we shortened the commute time by 22 Cheonan~Cheonryangri minutes, increasing the value of time for customers. Furthermore, we extended the express train 136minutes section from Seoul and Yongsan Stations to Cheongnyangni Station, reducing travel time by 9 2018 2019 2018 2019 to 11 minutes compared to the transfer, and improved urban accessibility from the outskirts of 22minutes 114minutes the Seoul metropolitan area. In addition, express trains were additionally stopped at Geumjeong Station and Sungkyunkwan University Station, which are in high demand, improving transfer convenience for 330,000 passengers per day based on the number of passengers in 2019. General Express KORAIL will strive to increase the value of time for customers through the expansion of railroad infrastructure by securing rolling stock and improving facilities. KORAIL Sustainability Report 2019-20 49 S u s t a i n a b i l i t y Iss u e s Korean Railway, Growing Together with Partners connecting the family Business & KORAIL considers it an important role of a public corporation to cooperate with small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) Social Context to create an ecosystem of win-win growth and fair sharing. To this end, we are developing public technologies through the ‘Railway platform for shared-growth’ and localizing core railway parts to enhance the competitiveness of our partners. In addition, we are leading the sustainable growth of SMEs by establishing a contract process centered on bidders, and expanding the direct wage payment system to prevent late payment of wages by partners. KORAIL will take the lead in creating a sound railroad industry ecosystem by establishing a win-win business model and establishing an institutional foundation for shared growth and fair trade. Progress Strengthening the execution capability Expanding support projects in cooperative projects by holding a shared growth fair for SMEs and small businesses Making joint entry into overseas markets Developing joint technologies with SMEs with outstanding performance with SMEs and purchasing new products Laying the foundation for fair and stable activities of SMEs Future Plan Expanding joint technology development for SMEs by pursuing purchase conditional threshold projects Expanding public-private joint investment technology development, including stage-wise disclosure of localized technology development items Implementing support projects to develop overseas markets with SMEs ‌Hosting a procurement consultation meeting in Japan for railroad rolling stock parts manufacturing companies, and supporting SMEs in Korea using overseas branches 2019-2020 Key Performance Localization of Zero Pay Franchise at Railway Station Localization ratio of railway components new technology development with SMEs Introduced in 1,188 stations Achieved 15 projects Achieved 85% Growing People-oriented Link to SDGs Related Stakeholders Related Department Together with happy Partners workplace Partners Office of Financial Management Korean Railway, KORAIL Sustainability Report 2019-20 50 51 S u s t ai n a b ili t y I ss u e s connects the family Shared Growth with Partners Supporting Small Businesses in Locating their Supporting small business located in the stations Stores in the Stations Shared Growth Activities KORAIL expands the support projects for SMEs and small business by using the railway Introducing Zero Pay system infrastructure. In order to support the sales of ‘Brand K,’ a joint brand created by the Ministry of •For the first time among public corporations KORAIL pursues shared growth based on win-win growth with its partners in order to develop SMEs and Startups for SMEs with outstanding products, KORAIL has established ‘Brand K Zone’ •Payment system for small business the railroad industry and establish a sound industrial ecosystem. To this end, we are strategically (zero commission) in ‘Luxury Floors for SMEs’ in major stations such as Seoul Station, Daejeon Station, Dongdaegu implementing shared growth based on three major activities of ‘Expanding cooperative projects •Introducing 1,188 franchises in the stations Station, and Gwangju Station and has taken the lead in promoting products and supporting sales to build public consensus,’ ‘Supporting for expansion of sales channels for business partners and channels. In addition, we introduced ‘Zero Pay,’ a mobile-based simple payment service, for Locating 'Brand K’ small business owners,’ and ‘Leading innovative growth for business partners by strengthening the first time among public corporations in cooperation with the Ministry of SMEs and Startups •Excellent SMEs’ products designated by the technological cooperation.’ Based on these three activities for innovative growth, we are government (39 products) and financial institutions. With ‘Zero Pay’ system, which is available at 975 stores in 213 stations strategically implementing shared growth. In addition, through the operation of the railroad win•Locating stores at four major stations nationwide, we lower the financial burden of small businesses, and provide more benefits such win platform, a two-way communication window with business partners, we have strengthened •Being awarded appreciation plaques by the as deduction of income tax to the customers. Ministry of SMEs and Startups joint technology development with SMEs and pursued win-win growth projects that can be experienced through various management support projects. KORAIL will strive to become a leading public corporation in the growth of SMEs and regional economic development by actively reflecting the government’s policy for shared growth. Focus Issue Hosting Fair for Shared Growth We held a large-scale fair for shared growth in September 2019 to explore ways to achieve shared growth with Strategy for Shared Growth our partners and to strengthen capability to execute the projects. Seven organizations including KORAIL, Korea Federation of SMEs, Korea SMEs and Startups Agency, and Small Enterprise and Market Service, as well as 200 Goal for Shared Growth in 2020 partners nationwide attended the event. At the fair, which was held under the banner of win-win management, performance of projects that KORAIL has implemented with SMEs, small businesses, and social enterprises and excellent results of representative partner were presented, and a separate promotional booth was established KORAIL, which contributes to the growth of SMEs and local economic development for excellent products of technology suppliers. In addition, a technology consultation meeting was held where new technology-related suppliers and KORAIL personnel could have one-on-one consultations. On this day, KORAIL signed a ‘Shared Growth and Win-Win Cooperation Agreement for Innovative Growth of SMEs, Small Businesses and Social Enterprises’ with the Korea SMEs and Startups Agency, Small Enterprise and Market Service, and the Korea Social Enterprise Promotion Agency, and discussed specific measures for revitalizing the cooperation projects, renewing our resolution for win-win cooperation. Direction & Tasks Jointly Advancing into Overseas Markets In June 2019, KORAIL signed a business agreement with KOTRA to support domestic railroad companies’ advancement into overseas markets, and agreed to actively support SMEs with the necessary capabilities to expand their sales channels and overseas markets. In addition, at the ‘Japanese Transportation Equipment Procurement Consultation Meeting’ jointly hosted by Gyeongsangnam-do and KOTRA, KORAIL arranged one-on-one matching in advance so that railroad parts suppliers and Japanese buyers can smoothly proceed with business consultations. We installed promotion booth for products of partners and provided translation services as well as technology consulting services. As such, we supported the participating SMEs so that they can expand their sales channels in Japan. Through this, 11 partners signed export contracts worth Supporting for expansion of sales Leading innovative growth for US$600,000. In addition, by jointly conducting Tanzania Central Line construction consulting Expanding cooperative project to with private companies, we are contributing to increasing partners’ overseas orders and creating channels for business partners and business partners by strengthening build public consensus more jobs, and gearing up for joint advancement into overseas markets. small business owners technological cooperation •Supporting building of a sales network •Taking preemptive measures to Japanese Transportation Equipment Procurement Consultation Meeting •Strengthening support for partners in Korea by utilizing KORAIL’s expand localization-new technology so that they can overcome infrastructures development economic crises •Establishing foundation to support •Supporting partners to secure •Spreading a fair trade culture overseas market entry technology development capabilities Korean Railway, KORAIL Sustainability Report 2019-20 52 53 S u s t ai n a b ili t y I ss u e s connects the family Localization with SMEs Co-development of Localized Railway Components People-oriented happy workplace Succeeding in developing 15 new technologies * Exploring 9 tasks Through technology development and win-win cooperation with SMEs, we achieve localization of core railway parts. In 2019, KORAIL conducted technical training on 46 railroad parts for 15cases partners and provided consulting to 28 parts supplying partners to strengthen their technology development capabilities for localization of railroad technology. We continue to explore technical 13cases tasks by operating a railroad win-win platform through which SMEs can offer new technologies, 2cases etc., through the portal site, and we expand communication with our partners, such as operating Business & The development of KORAIL begins with the development of human resources. KORAIL not only develops the potential 2018 2019 a technology development consulting system, for a total of 15 achievements including seven Social Context capabilities of each employee, but also implements various systems so that all members can realize their abilities to their localization and eight new technologies development. In addition, we made efforts to take fullest and feel a happy sense of accomplishment. In addition, we openly hire workers through a fair and transparent Localization and Procurement of New the initiative in releasing new products of SMEs through localization and procurement of new recruitment process, and actively support employees so that they can achieve self-realization as well as create the best Technology Items technology products worth KRW 13.6 billion. As a result of strengthening the competitiveness of performance through work-life balance. KRW 13.6 billion the railroad industry and focusing on joint technology development through organic cooperation with SMEs, KORAIL achieved 85% of the localization rate of railroad parts, and was awarded by KRW 8.1 billion 69% the Minister of Trade, Industry and Energy in recognition of these efforts. Progress Spreading an open employment culture focused on Conducting customized training to job competency strengthen employee competency 2018 2019 Establishing Fair Economic Order Creating a culture of Establishing an organizational culture of maintaining work-life balance win-win labor-management relation Railway Platform for Shared-Growth Website Spreading Fair Contract Culture through Bidder-Oriented Contract Process KORAIL is leading the fair contract culture of public institutions by improving the contract process centered on the convenience of bidders. In 2018, we shortened the payment deadline Future Plan Establishing a high-quality employment system from 40 days to five days (MRO products) to support seamless management activities of the 2nd-tier contractors, and in 2019, KORAIL reorganized part of the electronic procurement Expanding welfare services to realize work-life balance system (www.ebid.korail.com), and changed the bidding process, reflecting the interests of Building culture of win-win labor-management relation based on trust and empathy the bidders. With the reorganized electronic procurement system, companies can be issued contract performance certificates more quickly, and when submitting technical proposals and Fostering future talents to realize core values of KORAIL electronic bidding cancellation applications, it is possible not only to apply in person and email, but also online. In addition, KORAIL has improved the procedure for confirming payment of national taxes, local taxes, and national pensions into the bidder-friendly process by changing the existing document submission method to an online processing method using the administrative 2019-2020 Key Performance information network, thereby contributing to the spread of a fair contract culture. Efforts to Prevent Overdue Wages for Employees of Partners In order to prevent overdue wages, we fully introduced the direct wage payment system in 2018. The direct wage payment system is a system in which the client directly pays wages and subcontract amount through the electronic payment system, the ‘protecting subcontractors,’ which limits withdrawal by the construction companies and allows only remittances to workers’ Labor-management accounts to prevent overdue wage. KORAIL expanded the scope of the beneficiary workers of Designated as Family-Friendly Certificate communication index in 2019 this system from employees of construction companies to all construction works, and in 2019, the Only Training Organization for from the Ministry of Gender Equality and Family the company checked the implementation status at the 94 construction sites nationwide at once. In addition, in 2019, we introduced the subcontract supervision system, and assigned Railway Traffic Controllers in Korea (11 Consecutive Years) 3.60 dedicated personnel to the construction sites of 52 of our 2nd-tier partners to monitor unfair subcontracting activities. Moreover, KORAIL thoroughly supervises so as not to incur any damage to wages such as the introduction of an electronic card system that checks the commuting of Link to SDGs Related Stakeholders Related Department construction workers by card. Office of Human Employees Resources Management Korean Railway, KORAIL Sustainability Report 2019-20 54 55 S u s t ai n a b ili t y I ss u e s connects the family Fair HR Strengthening Employees' Capabilities Employment and HR Development KORAIL’s Excellent Talent HR Development Operation System Sectors led by HR Innovation Department KORAIL values ‘Persons-oriented communicators, customer-oriented experts, and futureThe vision for human resource development of KORAIL is ‘Realizing KORAIL for the Persons Selected as exemplary case of oriented innovators’ in all human resources management processes, and focuses on fostering through the cultivation of generalists,’ and to achieve this, KORAIL has established a systematic innovative HR management generalists who can realize the core values of KORAIL. human resource development operation system based on the employees’ needs for training, performance and feedback. Total number of new employees in 2019 KORAIL’s Excellent Talents 3,966Persons Persons-oriented Customer-oriented Future-oriented KORAIL’s Excellent Talents HRD (11.9% of total new employees in public sector) Communication Experts Innovators Systematically nurturing next-generation leaders to realize core values of KORAIL Mission Open-minded, caring persons who Talented persons who make strenuInnovative persons who enhance HRD facilitate active communication ous effort to learn about consumers global competitiveness of KORAI Realizing vision of KORAIL for the Persons through the cultivation of generalists Vision and cooperation to achieve consumer satisfaction Excellent Persons-Oriented Customer-Oriented Experts Future-Oriented Innovators Talent Communicators Fair Employment Process Open-minded, caring persons Talented persons who make Innovative persons KORAIL recruits new employees through job competency-based evaluation based on the who facilitate active strenuous efforts to learn who enhance the global communication and about consumers to National Competency Standards (NCS). In 2019, we conducted differentiated employment cooperation achieve consumer satisfaction competitiveness of KORAIL according to recruitment types. We revised the examination procedure to introduce major tests Creating Organizational for each job during the general public recruitment process as well as the employment system HRD Identifying HRD Securing Performance Creating Culture of Empathy and Strategies Organization Future Growth Engine HRD for vocational high school and Meister high school graduates. In addition, we focused on hiring Communication Supporting Professional Curricula for All Sectors talents with experience suitable for the job, such as selecting experienced workers suitable for Management Support the field only for special jobs. In order to secure transparency and credibility in the hiring process, Member-Customized Education we have established detailed rules on employment, and we are constantly improving the internal Goal Achievement Course for accounting-related KORAIL provides customized training for employees so that they can sufficiently develop the hiring system through consultation with the relevant ministries and the Recruitment Committee Enhancing job certificate (111 Persons), skills and qualities necessary for their duties by position. KORAIL has greatly expanded the job throughout the hiring process to prevent possibility of irregularities. expertise of staff Micro e-learning (248 Persons) training period for new employees from nine days to 21 days, and strengthened the mentoring Key Achievements Enhancing program with technical experts to support new employees to adapt quickly and smoothly to Nurturing talents with safetyRecruitment Strategy System interests of safety Youth related certificate (98 Persons), the organization and work. Preliminary training was conducted for two nights and three days experts and the Direction Establishing High-Quality Recruitment System Suitable for KORAIL Safety drill (10,883 times) company for the executive candidates before evaluating the promotion to develop the competency 2,674persons 1,900persons Strategies Preventing possibility of recruitment irregularities Changing into zero-defect recruitment procedures Sales/ Technologies and qualifications of the executive candidates, and lectures focused on cultivating personality, 3% of fixed number •Utilizing external experts, relevant ministries and HR •Improving recruitment procedures by each type of such as leadership and core values, were included in the curriculum to present the direction for Goal Achievement 968 persons Committee recruitment desirable growth. The curriculum for the executive candidates has been further strengthened. Goal •Enhancing transparency and credibility by setting up * ‌Open employment, High-school graduates, field Enhancing Contracted education for detailed rules on employment experts and intern for job opportunity capabilities in overseas operators (10 Persons), During the three-week professional job training for promoted executives, we operate a training •Preparing measures for remedy of victims and •Implementing limited competition for the passenger and Nurturing remote cargo handler 2018 2019 handling of persons engaged in irregularities underprivileged course focused on practical cases in labor, accounting, etc., and we improve the problemlogistics business (6 Persons) solving ability of the promoted. In addition, we are striving to continuously develop and improve High-school Graduates Number of recruited person and Securing Nurturing master workmen Achievement the competencies of our members, such as expanding support for domestic and overseas HR management satisfaction level number of socially equitable Contribution to social value index professional (71 Persons), 1,085persons recruitment certificate and Contracted education for professional training courses to cultivate key talents in each field. .Recruitment Committee (New) sourcing overseas manufacturers Inspection of achievement in system Survey to improve adaptability of 556persons Feedback .Recruitment Review Committee technologies (115 Persons) 9% of fixed number improvement (CEO) new employees (New) Cultivating Railway Experts 357 persons The 9th Competition for Land KORAIL has established a specialized education and training platform to cultivate railroad experts 2018 2019 Socially Equitable Recruitment and Transportation Training who will lead the railroad industry. We have established training infrastructure for each field, Human talent in non-metropolitan areas KORAIL expands socially equitable recruitment for the socially underprivileged and the installing and operating a training center and cutting-edge simulation training equipment. In order Awarded by the Minister of Land, disadvantaged. In addition to the recruitment conducted in the first and second half of the to enhance the expertise in railroad training, we established a dedicated department, reinforced 2,412persons Infrastructure and Transport 35% of fixed number year, we recruited employees through limited competition recruitment for the disabled and specialized instructors, and enhanced the quality of training by designing courses and textbooks 1,388 persons for each position. In recognition of its expertise and public interest in railroad education, KORAIL veterans, expanding the eligibility for restricted competition recruitment for the disabled from 1,132persons the disabled ex-service men to those with general disabilities. In addition, KORAIL exceeded its has once again enhanced its status as a specialized training institution, by being designated as 2019 Korea Social Contribution Awards recruitment targets set for the youth, high school graduates and local talent recommended by the only railroad control and vehicle maintenance training institution in Korea. 2018 2019 the government by introducing customized preferential treatment for each process, such as Awarded by the hiring by region for excellent local talents and preparing a system for expanding hiring of high Minister of Education school graduates. Korean Railway, KORAIL Sustainability Report 2019-20 56 57 S u s t ai n a b ili t y I ss u e s connects the family Key Achievements (Unit: No. of person) Work-Life Balance Labor-Management Council Creating a Harmonious Labor-Management Culture Status of Paternity Leave Use Employees' Welfare System Labor-Management Strategies 244 190 KORAIL operates a reasonable and fair compensation system to support a stable living KORAIL strives to realize win-win labor-management relations through harmony and 147 environment for employees, and operates an employee welfare system to improve the welfare cooperation, and to establish a role model for labor-management relations of public corporations. experience and satisfaction of employees. We provide a welfare system that fully complies with In 2019, we established and implemented three strategies, including ‘reestablishment of the government’s welfare guidelines, and we strive to improve employees' welfare by regularly standards for labor-management relations, strengthening of communication and consensus2017 2018 2019 identifying their needs, expanding non-monetary welfare services, and introducing point system building, and securing of labor-management relations management capabilities’ ─ in order Status of Maternity Leave Use for apparel. KORAIL applies the same welfare system to high school graduates and non-regular to establish a new foundation for labor-management relations. To this end, we reviewed the workers, without discrimination according to the type of employment. In the future, we will effectiveness of labor-management councils, such as collective bargaining, and improved 414 399 continue to operate a welfare system tailored to the expectations of the employees, and take operational methods to establish a standard for rational labor-management relations, and 374 the lead in creating a welfare environment that carefully considers the health and pride of each strengthened a horizontal communication culture by promoting two-way communication employee. channels. Furthermore, we secured management capabilities to effectively manage the changes in labor-management relations, such as changes in labor conditions. As a result, we have made 2017 2018 2019 Employee Welfare System achievements in reducing labor costs, securing safe working hours, signing wage agreements in •Employee group insurance (Average of up to 300 million won in case of compliance with government guidelines, reasonably improving the remuneration system, and Total Sum occupational accidents) Industrial Safety converting 6,584 non-regular workers into regular workers. 618 •Employee health checkups (Once per year for field workers, once every two 561 589 years for office workers) Labor-Management Strategies •Student tuition support (Free support for high school students, interest-free loan for college students) 2018 2019 2020 Daily Life Security •Discussing ways to develop railway •Reestablishing standards for labor-management •Completing midto long-term labor•Scholarships, dormitories and workplace childcare facilities operation •Eliminating cumulative conflict factors relations management strategies •Operation of employee housing •Presenting new directions for competency •Strengthening communication and consensus-building •Securing labor experts for field workers 2017 2018 2019 building •Securing labor-management relations •Establishing data-based management system •Cash gifts, disaster relief expenses, and funeral supplies management capabilities Direction •Operation of training facilities (in Naksan and Muchangpo) Reestablishment of Standards for Labor-Management Relations Strengthening of Communication and Consensus-building Securing of Labor-Management Relations Management Capabilities Other Welfare Support •Support for sports events and in-house clubs •Reviewing effectiveness of labor-management •Promoting two-way communication channel •Analyzing capabilities and identifying required •Support for statutory insurance: National pension, healthcare insurance, council •Operating programs for empathy and physical capabilities •Improving operation of council contact •Nurturing capabilities to perform labor-management employment insurance, workers’ compensation insurance •Adopting criteria for reasonable labor•Strengthening horizontal communication channel duties management relations •Securing mechanism for advice and infrastructures •Increasing personal capabilities of labor officers •Complying with the criteria for labor•Strengthening strategy workshops, and occupational Family-friendly Corporate Culture 2019 Tasks management relations and personnel competencies KORAIL encourages employees to actively use the flexible working system and provides preLabor-Management Communication and post-natal leave, parental leave, and childcare support in order to create an environment where employees can focus on their duties and work efficiently through a balance between work Event for Better Understanding between CEO KORAIL operates a program for empathy and physical contact to create a win-win laborand family life. We have expanded the period of paternity leave from five to 10 days, improved and KORAIL Family management culture. To this end, we created and aired a video program on ‘Job Empathy, the childcare leave under which employee can use it twice a year, newly adopted maternity Generational Empathy, and Organizational Culture’ to provide an opportunity to empathize with protection hours, and operated a daycare center at work, strengthening the system to support and understand the differences between generations and positions. In addition, we shared the the child caring. In addition, we are encouraging Persons to enjoy their personal life after work success experiences at the site level through an expanded physical contact program between and to secure time to spend with their family by simplifying the application process for on-time labor and management, and we are striving to create consensus within the organization by leave on Wednesdays and Fridays, flexi-time work, and flexible work. As a result of improving enhancing horizontal communication channels such as the CEO’s on-site inauguration ceremony, the organizational culture focusing on the needs of employees, KORAIL has been certified as a event for better understanding between CEO and KORAIL families, meetings with new family-friendly company for 10 consecutive years by the Ministry of Gender Equality and Family. employees, and employee surveys. In addition, we are building a system under which employees can report grievances easily, by revising the company rules on prevention of bullying and Labor-Management Communication Index Resolving Long-term Working Issues and Reorganizing Work System to Resolve Long Hour Working Issues sexual harassment in the workplace, opening a hotline with an external counseling for reporting Realizing Work-Life Balance 3.60 grievances, and expanding the number of local counseling offices to five locations. KORAIL will We reorganized the work system from the existing 3-group 2-shift system to a 4-group 2-shift continue to strive to ensure efficient communication between labor and management through a Awarded Best Award by the system to resolve long-hour work issues for employees. By improving the working conditions, 3.34 communication system in which all members can actively engage. Minister of Employment and Labor KORAIL has reduced the annual working hours by 101 hours (4.9%) year on year from 2,046 hours to 1,945 hours, and eliminated the continued night work that had been continued under Securing Mechanism for Advice and Infrastructure the 3 group 2 shift work system, contributing to the relief of employee fatigue and securing System and Infrastructures Activities safety. In addition, we created quality jobs by recruiting necessary manpower resulting from Revising, publicizing and educating the company rules on prevention of bullying Securing more systems the reduction of working hours. KORAIL’s work system reorganization, which supported the and sexual harassment in the workplace employees' desire to find work-life balance by eliminating long hours of work, was selected as an 2018 2019 Strengthening counselors’ Providing education on counseling skills (56 persons) and appointing external capabilities experts excellent case by the Ministry of Employment and Labor. Streamlining process for Opening hotline for external counseling And securing five more regional grievance reports counseling offices KORAIL Sustainability Report 2019-20 59 S u s t a i n a b i l i t y Iss u e s Korean Railway, Warm sharing with the local communities connecting the local communities Business & KORAIL considers it a social responsibility to develop and grow together with the local communities. We expect that Social Context the value of KORAIL will also increase as we lay a foundation for sustainable growth and create positive social values by creating a healthy community together with local communities. In this regard, KORAIL has carried out social contribution activities that contribute to the long-term development of local communities based on the characteristics of the railway industry. In addition, we take the lead in solving community issues in the local community and contribute to revitalization of the local economy, promote public interest as a public enterprise and realize social values. Progress Promoting local tourism through new tourism product development and concessionary fare policy Revitalizing the local economy by attracting tourists through collaboration with the central government and local governments Continuously pursuing three core social contributions Expanding Happy Train benefits Future Plan Enhancing the welfare of the underprivileged by Implementing a culture of fulfilling social responsibility through strengthening cooperation with local communities employee participation and joint labor-management project operation Continuing specialized social contribution programs Continuing social contribution activities through tailored to the characteristics of the business external partnerships 2019-2020 Key Performance Effect of Inducing Production Per-Capita Hours Spent for Social Contributions Cumulative No. of Happy Train Beneficiaries for Local Communities Breaking the Record 9.46 Hours of 150,000 Persons KRW 100 Billion Eco-friendly Warm sharing railway Link to SDGs Related Stakeholders Related Department with the local for the next communities generation Office of Future Planning and Innovative Local communities / Persons Strategy / Passenger Transport HQs / Marketing & Customer Service Division Korean Railway, KORAIL Sustainability Report 2019-20 60 61 S u s t ai n a b ili t y I ss u e s connecting the local communities Revitalizing the local economy KORAIL lowered the sales agency commission for railway tourism product from 4% to 2% to reduce the management burden of small and medium-sized travel agencies, and provides Railway tourist Revitalizing the local economy through local railway tourism advertisements on the KORAIL website free for excellent travel agencies. In addition, we are maintaining a partnership with travel agencies by awarding appreciation plaques and rewards to KORAIL has contributed to revitalizing the local economy by launching a special discount 2.5million Persons transported product, ‘Korea Discount!’ providing dramatic concessionary fares, spurring efforts to attract 30 excellent employees of 15 travel agencies to encourage long-term services of key employees at small and medium-sized travel agencies. KORAIL was awarded an appreciation plaque by users. In addition to the special discount that offers up to 50% discount on fares via the Internet, KATA in June 2019 in recognition of such efforts. Production inducing effect we introduced small group discounts for four Persons to use the entire KTX section at 99,000 won, Liberation Special Discount in commemoration of Liberation Day, and 10% discount for Supporting forest-fire damaged areas KRW 735.1billion foreigners ─ receiving positive responses from customers. In 2019, the number of Internet special discount customers reached 308,000, an increase of 17.2% from the previous year, and Concessionary fare for volunteers KORAIL has provided various kinds of support such as discount for KTX on the Gangneung Line Employment inducement effect the e contribution-effect to the local economy with the launch of KTX special discount products amounted to 8.96 billion won. 435Persons and concessionary fares for volunteers in order to contribute to the economic recovery of the Gangwon region, which suffered from a large scale forest fire. In order to prevent further damage 9,630Persons In addition, we launched the ‘Paldo Rail Pass,’ which allows unlimited use of KTX and regular trains for three days so that the user can travel freely by region. The ‘Paldo Rail Pass,’ linked 30% discount for KTX to the Gangwon area, which was concerned about the economic downturn, such as a decrease in tourists after the forest fire, we reduced the fare by 30% on all KTX sections of the Gangneung to local government tourism products, is expected to be expanded nationwide in the future, Line from April 10 to 30, 2019 (we supported 540,000 Persons bringing economic effect of 44.7 starting with the Honam line. We released the ‘Spring Season Rail-ro’ running through the spring travel week of each region aiming at promoting use of the ‘Rail-ro Pass,’ a symbol of youth travel. 538,000Persons billion won in the local communities), and reduced the fare of all trains nationwide temporarily for volunteers who used trains for relief from forest fires. In addition, we made every effort to help We are continuously developing models through which we can pursue win-win with the local the victims at the company level by providing the Naksan Training Center for displaced Persons Win-win Cooperation Supporting Effect communities, such as adding 20 sales kiosk of ‘KORAIL Pass,’ which is designed for foreigners, and donating 100 million won in disaster relief donations so that residents who lost their homes Lowering sales commission and increasing the operation frequency of foreigner-only trains. due to wildfires can regain stability. KRW 360million In addition, the Rural Development Administration and local governments cooperate to launch the ‘Nong Tour Rail’ product for rural experiences and tourism products in fishing villages. We 44% KRW 200million developed and operated the Paldo Market Train and local theme train in collaboration with the Social Contribution Activities Ministry of SMEs and Start-ups, contributing to local traditional market revitalization. In addition, we developed the ‘Pass n Pass,’ a pass for test takers in collaboration with the Ministry of KORAIL’s Volunteer Team Carrying Out Social Contribution Activities 2018 2019 Education, and we are attracting railroad tourists, revitalizing the local economy. Seating capacity (daily average) Head (CEO) Carrying Out Activities 30,100 Revitalizing domestic travel in collaboration with the small and medium-sized travel agencies Office of Future As Korea’ representative public corporation, KORAIL fulfills its social responsibilities and carries 29,6000 Steering Committee 102% Planning and out social contribution activities through win-win cooperation with local communities. Under the (1day) (each senior manager, KORAIL promotes a win-win relationship with small and medium-sized travel agencies, and external member) Innovative Strategy social contribution slogan of ‘A Happy World Connected by Railways’, KORAIL is making social (Secretariat) carries out a B2B business that supplies tour packages that have been designed to revitalize contributions based on three main strategies of ‘Sharing Talent,’ ‘Sharing Happiness,’ and ‘Regional awareness of the railroad tourism industry among travel agencies. In March 2019, KORAIL signed Contributions.’ And in order to enhance our implementation competence for social contributions, we Each volunteer teams Regional and affiliate 2018 2019 a business deal with the Korea Association of Travel Agents (KATA) to revitalize local tourism and (15) at headquarter volunteer teams (26) are operating ‘KORAIL’s volunteer team’ that is consist of our employees and managing employees’, Sales of travel agency attract foreign tourists, and held three regular meetings to come up with a cooperation plan. and managing volunteer activity performances by operating a social contribution portal site. Headquarter volunteer Regional and affiliate KRW 7.2 billion In response to demand for domestic travel of foreign tourists, we launched a new concept-travel groups (16) volunteer groups (395) In addition, we are enhancing our expertise in social contribution activities through close KRW 5.9 billion product, ‘Dream Tour Youth,’ which combines the ITX-Youth Train and a tourist taxi exclusively collaboration with external partnerships with the Community Chest of Korea and the Children 122% for foreigners and operated tour packages allowing foreign tourists to freely travel around the Fund Korea, etc. attraction sites in Chuncheon city in collaboration with the travel agencies in 2019. In addition, we jointly developed representative train travel products such as Jeongdongjin Sunrise Train, Goals and Directions 2018 2019 Jeongseon 5-Day Market Train, Hwansan Snowflakes Train, and Bicycle Train, contributing to the Making KORAIL contribute to the local communities and grow together vitalization of domestic travel. Promotional materials of Korea Nong Tour Rail, for Paldo Market Train Special Discount rural experiences Local Contributions Sharing Talent Value Creation Supporting environmental protection and response/ Operating Happy Train/Creating KORAIL Project to solve social issues (Impact Making donation in IT and education for Village/Supporting the socially disadvantaged Investment)/Realizing handicap-free welfare employments/Operating railway experience field Promoting welfare of the underprivileged and creating social value by strengthening cooperation with the local communities/Realizing culture of Basic Direction implementing social responsibilities through the project in which employees participate and which is operated jointly by the labor and management Korean Railway, KORAIL Sustainability Report 2019-20 62 63 S u s t ai n a b ili t y I ss u e s connecting the local communities Financial resources for Social Contribution Financial resources Performance in major stations KORAIL Symphony Orchestra Activities (Unit: KRW million) Employees of KORAIL have launched the ‘KORAIL Love-Fund, One Account Campaign’ For the culturally marginalized Persons who cannot fully enjoy the culture, we are delivering KORAIL Love-Fund from January 2006 to raise financial resources for social contribution activities. Through the various performances in major stations such as Seoul Station, Yongsan Station, and Busan 603 588 campaign, employees voluntarily donate some amount of money from their monthly salary. The Station, as well as in specialized art centers such as the Seoul Arts Center, providing opportunities 580 donations collected with small money are used for projects supporting beneficiaries such as the for them to enjoy classical cultural performances. To this end, we founded the Talent Sharing underprivileged, and KORAIL discloses related data to operate the fund transparently. In addition, Orchestra in 2012, and we are practicing community sharing and donating talents with members we introduced ‘Matching Grant,’ which is supported by the company budget by matching one on selected through auditions. 2017 2018 2019 one with the Love-Fund, to use it as an important resource for social contribution activities. Matching Grant Operation System of KORAIL Love-Fund 639 603 Focus Issue Holding the ‘Puff-puff Train School’ program, a culture and art education program 589 KORAIL’s Volunteer Team Secretariat Headquarter and regional Volunteer For two days from October 30, 2019, the KORAIL Museum invited more than 100 children from Gyeonggi Province to a culture and arts education program called Collecting Love-Fund Secretariat reports financial status Team Executing Love-Fund ‘Puff-puff Train School.’ During the event held under the theme of the meeting of railroads and science, children had time to understand the scientific common (all the year-round) sense and principles contained in trains through science experiment shows and train driving experiments tailored to their level. In addition, the event provided the Distribution Returning balance and interest after submitting the financial report KTX Trick Art photo zone and uniform-wearing experience, and exhibited the actual steam locomotive, the presidential train, and the next-generation high-speed 2017 2018 2019 train of real size, satisfying the curiosity of children and attracting good responses. The event was designed to fulfill its role as a cultural space in the region by •One person one account campaign (*48,381 accounts with the participation of 21,566 Persons (as of December 2019)) providing customized educational programs to children in the community. The Railway Museum will continue to serve as a hub for local culture and art by realizing •Fund is arbitrarily executed separately from the accounting system of the company the social value of the venue as a cultural attraction visited by 200,000 Persons annually. Per-Capita Hours Spent for Social Contributions (Unit: hour/person) Happy World connected by the Rail: Sharing Talent 16 12 9.46 Rail-House Rail House is an activity to improve living spaces of the underprivileged and the socially disadvantaged living around the railroads nationwide. Employees of KORAIL visit the residential 2017 2018 2019 facilities of such Persons to improve them by sharing their technical skills and talents. In order to revitalize the stagnant KORAIL Village project, we changed the name of project to ‘RailHouse,’ and employees in diverse positions and categories conducted wall reinforcement, boiler replacement, and floor construction works to improve poor residential environments. We are promoting it as another representative social contribution program of KORAIL. Railway Experience Centers KORAIL provides youths with opportunities to have a variety of experiences, such as job and cultural experiences, and career counseling by utilizing the abundant infrastructure of the railroad. We designate railroad experience centers in 18 locations nationwide so that youths who are the leading players of the future can actively explore their career paths through various experiences at train stations, vehicle maintenance depot, and museums. In order to raise the interest of future generations in the railway industry, which is turning into an eco-friendly high-tech industry, we are holding events such as education fairs. In addition, we support job experience and career counseling in connection with the free semester system. In 2019, a total of 10,267 youths visited the railway experience centers to have various experiences. Number of Beneficiary of Rail House (Unit: person) Number of Persons visiting Railway Experience Centers (Unit: person) 49,914 42,591 36,685 4,202 3,205 1,818 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 Korean Railway, KORAIL Sustainability Report 2019-20 64 65 S u s t ai n a b ili t y I ss u e s connecting the local communities Happy World connected by Rail: Sharing Happiness Happy Railway Foundation Happy Railway Foundation was established in February 2016 for the first time in the public sector Happy Train jointly by the labor and management under the core values of “Sharing Talents, Sustainability, Happy Train is a representative social contribution program of KORAIL that provides train travel and Local Contributions,’ and has implemented various social contribution activities such as opportunities to the underprivileged, such as nursery center children, the elderly living alone, supporting the underprivileged and providing opportunities for experiencing railway culture. the disabled, and North Korean refugees who have few opportunities to travel by utilizing the The Foundation explores social contribution activities taking into account the characteristics of transportation infrastructure of KORAIL. As of 2019, the cumulative beneficiaries of this program each region, and systematically conducts social contribution activities such as the Unification exceed 150,000. In 2019, KORAIL held the ‘Happy Train Contest’ and supported a total of 45 Dream Tree Support Project and the Unification Train experience targeting the underprivileged, million won worth of train travel expenses for 30 institutions supporting the socially disadvantaged. multicultural families, children from migrant families, and North Korean displaced Persons. In In addition, we held events for students with disabilities and the underprivileged children, and 15,112 2017, we implemented a joint labor-management social contribution project that delivered hope socially disadvantaged Persons participated in the events over a total of 282 occasions. to the Persons by collecting small amount of money from the salaries of employees, and since April 2017, about 13,000 employees have raised about 6.5 million won per month on average. Operation Performance of Happy Train This fund has been used for sharing activities for the underprivileged, and 1,842 Persons have Operation Frequency (Unit: times) Number of Beneficiaries (Unit: persons) benefited from the activities over a total of 48 occasions. 282 15,112 A Happy World Connected by Railways: Local Contribution 236 12,547 193 11,765 Launching and Operating Public Products KORAIL provides affordable travel packages customized for low-income brackets, the disadvantaged and the socially vulnerable. We are operating diverse public products such as ‘Love Travel,’ which provides a DMZ Cheolwon tour in cooperation with local nursery schools for the children, ‘Dreaming Children,, a job experience program for youth from low-income families, 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 ‘Happy Train to the Forest,’ a forest healing program for juvenile delinquency, and ‘Culture Sharing Rail Pass,’ which provides free travel passes to the public aid recipients, strengthening Hope Project for the Homeless our public role as a public corporation, and practicing warm sharing that adds warmth to the local Rail House community. KORAIL is carrying out self-support and self-sufficiency recovery programs and vocational skills improvement projects to support the economic independence of the homeless and to raise their labor motivation. The Hope Project for the Homeless, which started in 2012, has provided shortRegional Contributions Volunteering Activities Customized for Each of the Region term jobs and secured employment opportunities for the homeless residing in station squares Every year, during the Lunar New Year and Chuseok holidays, KORAIL provides holiday festivities who are willing to support themselves. As of now, we have created jobs for 442 homeless and donates money to the underprivileged to share love. In addition, upon occurrence of an persons (cumulative), of which 147 have successfully been employed by social enterprises. area affected by natural disasters, we are striving to share the difficulties of the local community KORAIL will boost willingness of the homeless for self-support and contribute to the recovery of through active relief activities and donations. In addition, we supply briquettes and oil to the lowsocial life by introducing stable jobs. income families, and conduct Kimchi-making volunteering activity for neighbors in need. The number of volunteer activities of local volunteer group reached 3,860 times in 2019, and the Stations where the Project is implemented Operation Performance of Hope Project for the Homeless Supporting Cooling Supplies total volunteer work hours recorded 70,672 thousand hours. Number of Jobs Created Ratio linked to employment ➊ Cheongnyangni (Accumulative/ Unit: persons) (Accumulative/Unit: persons) Performance of Local Volunteer Groups Station ➋ Seoul Station Volunteer Activities (Unit: times) Volunteer Work Hours (Unit: hour) ➌ Yeongdeungpo 442 70,672 Station 5,377 ➍ Anyang Station 147 5,311 3,860 329 442(33.2%) 276 ➎ Daejeon Station ➏ Large area 246,964 194,876 ➐ Busan Station 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 Korean Railway, KORAIL Sustainability Report 2019-20 66 67 S u s t ai n a b ili t y I ss u e s connecting the local communities Environment Management System Eco-friendly Railways for Future Generations Vision and Strategies KORAIL fulfills its responsibility for environmental preservation by selecting three strategies and 14 tasks with the goal of ‘strengthening public value of railroads through smart environmental management’ under the environmental vision of ‘Realization of an eco-friendly green railroad.’ In addition, we have established a midto long-term roadmap for environmental management which will be continued till 2025, and we are Business & Railroad is an eco-friendly means of transportation that can protect nature and the environment as more and more Persons use it. implementing strategic goals and detailed tasks. Moreover, in line with the government’s New Deal policy, Social Context KORAIL conducts eco-friendly activities in order to take advantage of the outstanding energy efficiency of railroads to join forces in KORAIL is making its best efforts in smart environmental management so that the status of the KORAIL can the global climate change action and fulfill its responsibility for environmental preservation as a public corporation. In order to hand be reinforced by further expanding the eco-friendly policy of railroads and actively contributing to the GHG over a sustainable environment to the next generation, KORAIL has established and implemented a midto long-term roadmap for reduction policy. environmental management which will be continued till 2025 and in order to minimize the emission of environmental pollutants from our business sites, we have installed environmental pollution prevention facilities and actively invest in renovation projects. In addition, Environmental Vision and Strategies we are actively implementing eco-friendly management through stricter management than government regulations by reducing Vision Realization of Eco-Friendly Green Railroad greenhouse gas emissions and strengthening comprehensive measures to reduce fine dust. Goal Strengthening public value of railroads through smart environmental management Progress Advancing smart environment management Reinforcing comprehensive measures Adapting to new climate Advancing smart according to the new climate regime to reduce fine dust Three management of Promoting eco-friendly regime through GHG, strategies environmental management activities Installing and renovating environmental Achieving the government’s GHG energy target compliance infrastructures pollution prevention facilities and energy reduction targets Strengthening soil purification Promoting environmental Achieving GHG reduction target project management instruction and consulting Future Plan Establishing environmental management goals higher than environmental regulation standards and advancing management Establishing climate change Advancing water quality Strengthening air and indoor air adaptation system management quality reduction and Maximizing carbon management Systemizing chemical substance management Expanding the eco-friendliness of railroads by obtaining external certification 14 tasks activities handling and management Promoting eco-friendly sharing Establishing railroad noise management Reinforcing public interests of railroads by expanding environmental facilities Advancing energy use management system Realizing social value through ecoEstablishing new environmental friendly management Actively exploring green new deal environmental projects Advancing legal waste treatment communication regulation response system Strategic Organizations In order to smoothly advance the environmental management and enhance implementation 2019-2020 Key Performance competence, KORAIL has an office dedicated to handling environmental issues within the headquarters’ Safety Administration HQ and is establishing organic and cooperative networks with 12 regional divisions involved with current projects, four rolling stock maintenance teams, two express railroad divisions, and five affiliates. By actively utilizing the networks with the external institutions, we are strengthening our business communication and managing the environment efficiently and proactively. In addition, we are striving to proactively respond to the changing environment by conducting our own OJT training and training commissioned by the Ministry of Environment to strengthen the expertise of the persons in charge. Reduced 620,000 tons of GHG compared Designated as the ‘Year’s Green Product’ with the Government’s goal of reducing GHGs Obtaining ‘Carbon Footprint’ Organizational chart (government’s target: for KTX Gangneung Line for eight consecutive years 220,000 tons, emission of 1.6 million tons) For the first time among public corporations HQs Office of Environment Management of Safety Innovation HQ 4 rolling stock 12 regional divisions 5 logistics teams 11 affiliates Link to SDGs Related Stakeholders Related Department maintenance teams Station, business Facilities, electricity, Cargo station Express, regular division etc. Local communities / NGO Safety Administration HQ Korean Railway, KORAIL Sustainability Report 2019-20 68 69 S u s t ai n a b ili t y I ss u e s connecting the local communities Installing waste storage facilities Investment in Environmental Facilities In addition, we continue to install long and large-size rails and vibration-proof fasteners, and actively consult with the Korea Rail Network Authority on the installation of sound-proof and For smart management of environmental facilities that can minimize the emission of vibration-proof facilities when constructing and improving railroad tracks to reduce noise environmental pollutants at stations and business divisions, KORAIL installed facilities to prevent along the tracks. In addition, we are managing the Ministry of Environment’s railway noise the emission of environmental pollutants such as facilities for waste, water quality, air, indoor air measurement network at 40 locations that have the most railway noise in urban areas, and quality, and noise and vibration, and conducted renovation projects continuously. Through such improving long and large-size rails and inspecting soundproof facilities at locations where noise activities, we are taking the lead in preventing environmental risks by thoroughly complying with is expected to exceed the standard. Furthermore, we are continuing our preemptive efforts environmental pollution source management and related laws. In addition, we are reinforcing to reduce railroad noise by introducing a management card, reinforcing on-site inspection and Replacing wastewater treatment tanks human and physical infrastructure to realize eco-friendly railroads by steadily improving monitoring at locations where noise complaints occur regularly. environmental facilities and enhancing expertise of the managers. Efforts to reduce railway noise and vibration Mechanical noise Vibration noise Minimizing Environmental Impact Replacing diesel locomotives with high mechanical Improving to be a heavy and long & large-size rails noise with low-noise vehicles (EMU, electric vehicles) with no seams between rails Managing Indoor Air Quality Before improvement After improvement Before improvement After improvement KORAIL operates a fine dust management task force to manage its monthly performance aiming at establishing a pleasant railway environment, and it is making its best efforts to manage indoor air quality, such as preparing a comprehensive plan for fine dust reduction and management and carrying out specific implementation plans. Aerodynamic noise Other operating noise To manage the air quality within the stations, we are implementing various measures, such as When a vehicle is introduced, the vehicle is designed Conducting special training for crew members and manufactured according to ISO-3095 standards concerning refraining from sounding whistle in renovating air conditioning facilities, replacing filters, installing windshields, and increasing cleaning to reduce aerodynamic noise. densely populated areas cycles. We plan to effectively control the fine dust by installing smart air quality management * ‌ISO-3095: International standard for noise measurement applied to railways systems in all underground stations by 2020. In addition, we are measuring and managing air quality on a regular basis to improve the air quality within trains, and operating comfortable trains Inspecting KTX filters intensively Managing soil by cleaning the air conditioning and heating filters of trains, cabin ventilation facilities, and toilets more than recommended standards of the Ministry of Environment. In addition, KORAIL has KORAIL implements the ‘Ministry of Environment Soil and Groundwater Environment Survey in strengthened the air conditioning system inspection by intensively inspecting the air conditioning Pollution Concerned Areas (Railway Facilities)’ to conduct in-depth soil inspection on railway sites system filters of all trains and replacing the defective filters to ensure pleasant air circulation in with high probability of soil contamination, and voluntarily restore the soil when the pollution the trains. As a result, in 2019, the result of measuring fine dust of the entire station and vehicles standards are exceeded. In order to prevent recurrence after soil restoration, we conduct through an accredited agency certified by the Ministry of Environment showed that that the autonomous soil contamination inspection every two years and carry out systematic facility trains are managed comfortably within the criteria. improvement activities such as ground installation of underground piping. In addition, we are actively striving to preserve the soil environment by providing on-site instruction and consulting Best Practice on facilities subject to specific soil pollution management. As a result, all 21 locations included in the railway site soil measurement network designated by the Ministry of Environment to Promoting the installation of ‘Smart Air Quality Management System’ that reduces fine dust understand the soil pollution trends are kept within the standards for soil pollution. On the other hand, KORAIL has adopted internal regulations on the use of soil environment KORAIL plans to establish a ‘Smart air quality management system’ in all underground stations by 2020 Establishing soundproof walls for noise reduction evaluation for rented sites within the railroad site to preemptively respond to the risk of the to reduce and manage fine dust in underground stations. This is a system that removes fine dust by automatically operating the air purifiers according to the measured value of the ultrafine dust responsibility to clean up soil pollution generated from the railroad site. And we promote early concentration of a sophisticated automatic air quality measuring device. KORAIL plans to improve the air detection and purification of soil contamination through activities for enhancing understanding of quality in the stations to a level where users can feel the improvement by actively utilizing an automatic soil management practices by creating and distributing checklists for the environment managers. control system that can effectively reduce fine dust in the station. Soil Contamination Cleaning Up Process Managing Noise and Vibration Managing noise through noise measurement Railway noise means mechanical noise caused by the propulsion device of the train, electric noise caused by rail rolling, aerodynamic noise caused by the front of the train and pantograph, and Local governments Person in charge of cleaning up Person in charge of cleaning up Local governments Completion of soil cleaning up other noises generated during operation (whistling, alarm sound, etc.). In order to minimize the Issuing order to take actions Submitting soil cleaning up plan Conducting soil cleaning up Verifying soil cleaning up project noise and vibration generated during train operation, KORAIL introduced low-noise vehicles that ➊ Establishing verification plan applied the recommended indoor and outdoor noise standards from the train production stage, ➋ Verifying the process ➌ Verifying the completion and restricted the use of train whistles except in urgent cases. Korean Railway, KORAIL Sustainability Report 2019-20 70 71 S u s t ai n a b ili t y I ss u e s connecting the local communities Managing water quality Best Practice Climate Change Response Water pollutants discharged from KORAIL are divided into: wastewater generated during repair, Gangneung KTX Line GHG Management System washing, and cleaning up of railway rolling stock; sewage generated from train toilets; and Certified as The KORAIL’s major sources of energy emitting greenhouse gas include vehicle operating energy domestic sewage generated from vehicle inspection facilities and station operating facilities. eco-friendly line and living energy for the operation of railroad facilities. KORAIL has established and operated a Sewage and wastewater generated from train maintenance sites and business sites are removed through physicochemical treatment at the water pollution prevention facility, and thus the Obtained ‘Carbon footprint’ ‘greenhouse gas inventory’ to identify and manage greenhouse gas emissions for all business concentration of major pollutants is managed within the wastewater effluent limitations. sites. In addition, we are striving to achieve the government’s GHG reduction targets by collecting KORAIL has acquired the ‘Carbon Footprint’ Meanwhile, we are measuring and managing water pollutants through our own environmental and managing feedback on monthly and quarterly GHG consumption and midto long-term certification for ‘Gangneung KTX Line,’ which technicians or external companies in order to check the proper operation status of water connects Seoul and Gangneung. GHG reduction targets. pollution prevention facilities and wastewater discharge facilities, and in case of unexpected When traveling between Seoul and Gangneung with KTX, the carbon emission per person GHG Inventory environmental problems, we are closely managing it through prompt on-site support from (16.0kgCO2) is half of that of a passenger car environmental managers. In addition, among the major chemicals used in wastewater treatment Use of diesel fuel for railway operation (29.91kgCO2), which testifies to the high ecofacilities, we stopped using sodium hydroxide (more than 5%), which is regulated as a hazardous friendliness of KORAIL. Carbon Footprint is a Diesel railcar, diesel locomotive, special chemical, and use alternative purification chemicals to establish an eco-friendly wastewater certification given by the Ministry of Environment vehicles ERP system treatment processes. As such, we are continuing our proactive and systematic activities in water to low-carbon eco-friendly goods and services. Other use quality management. NGMS Mechanical equipment fuel, fuel for GHG Reduction Targets of KORAIL (Unit: t CO2-eq) corporate vehicles, cooling-heating fuel Emission Managing waste Expected Emission Reduction emissions target target Use of electricity Input data by External Entering KORAIL installs and operates waste separation and storage facilities at all business sites to each use, verification into NGMS 2020 2,451,873 2,378,317 73,556 Electric railway vehicle system internal appropriately treat and reduce waste generated from trains and stations. We designate waste General electricity feedback managers at each station and set waste reduction targets and enhance the expertise of waste 2021 2,510,518 2,436,203 74,315 (office building, stations, etc.) managers through outsourced training. In addition, we actively identifies recyclable waste, treat 2022 2,633,766 2,554,753 79,013 General electricity (equipment, facilities, etc.) waste according to legitimate procedures such as reporting the waste discharger, registering in the ‘All Baro System’ of the Ministry of Environment, and reporting the performance of generated waste ─ and we fulfill the obligation of discharger, such as separating, storing, and GHG Reduction Status disposing of workplace waste by appearance. We are sorting out the recyclable domestic wastes Greenhouse gases emitted from KORAIL business sites include greenhouse gases for railroad generated from trains and stations, contributing to waste reduction, and actively taking the lead operation and greenhouse gases from the use of safety and convenience facilities by internal and in recycling waste resources by separating waste air filters and scrap metal scraps, and providing external customers. Of which, greenhouse gases for railroad operation account for 87% of total the use of waste wood fuel. On the other hand, KORAIL implements sustainable growth through GHG Emission by Energy Source (Unit: t CO2-eq) greenhouse gas emissions by KORAIL. In 2019, total GHG emissions of KORAIL were 1,604,515 eco-friendly activities such as a company-wide campaign to reduce disposable items to ‘reduce For railway tCO2-eq, which was 27.95% (622,667tCO2-eq) lower than the government emissions target the amount of waste plastic generated by 50% by 2030’ with the goal of ‘an eco-friendly green 1,433,511 (2,227,202tCO2-eq), thereby actively responding to the government’s efforts to reduce GHG railroad leading the reduction of disposable items.’ 1,392,397 1,370,736 emissions. System to Reduce Disposable Items GHG Reduction Status (Unit: tCO2-eq) Goals Eco-friendly Green Railway Leading Disposable Item Reduction 2017 2018 2019 Emission allowance Emission Reduction Reduction rate (%) Reducing amount of waste plastic generated by half by 2030 For domestic use 2017 2,000,571 1,607,180 393,391 19.66 237,944 2018 1,941,126 1,671,454 269,672 13.90 Reducing the use of disposable items by 35% by 2022 233,799 214,783 2019 2,227,202 1,604,535 662,667 27.95 Reducing plastic use within Cooperating with the stores the train (changing Campaign to use personal Sectors Changing system rented (inducing voluntary packaging material of gifts participation) and thoroughly separating cups and handkerchief GHG Emissions by Energy Source the wastes) 2017 2018 2019 KORAIL strives to reduce GHG emissions and reduce emissions by replacing and converting Total sum Inducing participation of Changing packaging the energy used for railway vehicles operation with a high energy consumption rate and living Refraining from use of Campaign to use personal stores rented material for gift items in 1,671,455 (KORAIL Retail) plastic bags cups and handkerchief energy (cooling and heating) to indirect emissions (power use) with a low GHG conversion factor. train *Changing free gift 1,607,180 (KORAIL Retail) 1,604,535 Inducing participation of wrapping paper (plastic-paper) Actively using multi-use As a result of these efforts, we are complying with greenhouse gas emissions through efficient stores rented Refraining from use of Detailed (specialized shops) plastic straws Changing the material of items during meetings energy management, despite the projects increasing energy consumption every year, such as the tasks Procurement division (material change and the bottled water cover Expanding installation of opening of new lines and the construction of new stations and extensions and renovations. refrain from purchasing the use suppression) umbrella rainwater disposable items removers 2017 2018 2019 Prohibiting use of Publicizing for customers Thoroughly recycling the disposable items (video display, Giving recycled gifts as waste in the store broadcasting, etc.) event souvenirs KORAIL Sustainability Report 2019-20 Sustainability Human rights management Ethical Stakeholders’ Materiality Let’s KORAIL Management Governance management participation assessment Risk management System Governance KORAIL Sustainability Report 2019-20 74 75 S u s t ai n a b ili t y M a n a g e m e n t S y s t e m Board Members Board of Directors’ Operation Performance Operating the Board of Directors Number of meetings (times) Status of the Board of Directors Operating the Board of Directors 13 KORAIL’s BOD, as the highest decision-making body, makes decisions on major strategies and 12 The BOD is making major decisions and managing risks on KORAIL’s business management, 11 policies, and supervising and supporting the business management for the corporation. The BOD policies and environmental issues. We are keeping the business management in check, coming consists of 15 members including seven executive directors including the CEO and eight nonup with practical policies and encouraging the BOD members to actively participate in meetings executive directors and secures the independence of its governance as a senior non-executive and express their opinions under the goal of ‘supporting decision-making processes for vitalizing director serves as the chairperson. KORAIL appointed a female chairperson for the first time, and the BOD and realizing social values.’ 2017 2018 2019 appointed three non-executive directors to increase the representativeness of women. Number of resolutions (number) Goals for Operating the BOD and Tasks of Performing Goals and Tasks of the Board of Directors Calling BOD Meetings and Making Decisions 37 Operation 29 goals Establishing a decision-making system centered on the board of directors to realize social values 22 KORAIL holds regular board meetings on a monthly basis and temporary board meetings when Strengthening the role Promoting operation Enhancing female representation requested by more than one-third of the registered board members. For a fair operation of Operation of non-executive directors •‌Subcommittee deliberation on •‌Promoting engagement of •‌Expanding the percentage of women the BOD, we pass decisions made by a majority of the registered BOD members. And, we have directions important matters non-executive directors on the board •Improving decision-making capability •‌Promoting policy suggestions •‌Strengthening the role of female directors stated the prohibition of directors with special stakes and interests related to agendas of the 2017 2018 2019 BOD from participating in the relevant decision-making process in the articles of association. Board of Directors Operation Performance check Feedback Attendance rate (%) Evaluation, •(Regular) Once a month •‌(Monthly) measurement results •‌Individual performance evaluation feedback 95.9 •(Extra) Upon occurrence of agenda •‌(Quarterly) non-quantitative •‌Reflecting in the next board of directors Procedures for Appointing Directors 93.2 performance operation plan 90.2 KORAIL is fairly appointing directors in accordance with Article 25 (Appointment of Directors of Public Institutions) of the Act on the Management of Public Institutions and internal regulations Committees within the BOD set by the Director Recommendation Committee. Director Recommendation Committee By activating sub-committees within the BOD, we are carrying out professional discussions consisted of non-executive directors and external members make decisions on recommendation on core agendas by sectors and preventing business risks. KORAIL has a total of three of director candidates, and the director candidates are transparently and publically 2017 2018 2019 subcommittees, and we established the ‘Railway Safety Subcommittee’ in 2019 to strengthen recommended, candidates recommended by any of the stakeholders are excluded and meeting expertise in the safety field. In 2019, we held a total of 24 subcommittee meetings, thereby Unit 2017 2018 2019 minutes are disclosed in order to secure the fairness and reliability of the director position. enhancing the BOD’s ability to make reasonable decisions on asset development and budget Pre-deliberation rate % 100 100 100 proposals. Cases 1 3 4 Procedures of Appointing Directors Resolution modified % 4.5 8.1 13.8 Committees within the BOD President Executive Auditor Senior Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Reporting agenda Cases 9 11 13 Classification Roles Members Two Non-Executive, The Director Recommendation Committee The Director Recommendation Committee Deliberation and Decisions The Director Recommendation Committee Railway Safety SubDiscussing Issues on Safety Policy, Business, Railway Safety (Plural Recommendations) by the Public Institution Operation (Plural Recommendations) Directors and One (Plural Recommendations) Committee Enhancement, etc. Committee Executive Director Deliberation and Decisions by the Public Deliberation and Decisions by the Public Deliberation and Decisions by the Public Strategy and Three Non-Executive, Institution Operation Committee Institution Operation Committee Institution Operation Committee Discussing Issues on Business Goals, Organizations, Budgets Finance SubDirectors and One and Other Policies Recommendations by the Minister of Land, Recommendations by the Minister of Committee Executive Director Infrastructure and Transport Strategy and Finance Five Non-Executive, Appointment by the Minister Appointment by the Minister Project SubDiscussing Issues on New Projects, Sales & Transport Policies, Directors and One Appointment by the President Appointment by the President of Strategy and Finance of Strategy and Finance Committee Safety and Other Project Operations Executive Director Status of the BOD Members (As of July 2020) Strengthening Roles and Utilizing Expertise of Non-Executive Directors Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors To enhance the expertise of non-executive directors and expand management participation, Name Gender Job title Name Gender Major career Job title we conduct job training, report on management issues, reinforce the agenda preliminary review Kim Jeong-seon Female CEO of Neo Cross Structural Engineering Senior Non-Executive Director Chairperson of the BOD Son, Byeong Seok Male President and CEO system, and on-site management activities. In addition, we hold meetings of non-executive Male Chairperson of the World Labor Movement Kim Jeong-geun Male Non-Executive Director directors for regular reporting sessions on management issues other than major agendas, and Kang, Sung soo Male Executive Auditor History Initiative Oh Geon-ho Male Co-Head of My Welfare Country Non-Executive Director actively respond to data requests and inquiries about overall management issues by establishing Jeong, Wang-guk Male Vice President Lee Chung-nam Male Vice president of Sankyung energy newspapers/ Non-Executive Director regular channels such as social networks. Furthermore, we have introduced the KPI to evaluate senior journalist Vice President the individual performance of non-executive directors and to select the outstanding nonJeon, Chan ho Male Park Gong-woo e Male CEO of SeeWoo, a legal firm Non-Executive Director (Management Planning) executive directors on a quarterly basis, by motivating active participation in management. In Kim Hyun-min Female CPO of Anse Accounting Firm Non-Executive Director Cho, Dae-sig Male Vice President (Metro) addition, we are making various efforts to promote communication between non-executive Kang Joo-eon Female Researcher of Communication Consulting and Clinic Non-Executive Director directors and employees, such as providing special lectures for internal employees by utilizing the *2 vacant for executive directors *One vacancy for non-executive director expertise of non-executive directors. Ethical KORAIL Sustainability Report 2019-20 76 77 S u s t ai n a b ili t y M a n a g e m e n t S y s t e m Management Systems for Advancing Ethical Management Anti-Corruption Awareness Survey Result Ethical Management Activities and Performance Corruption level of high-ranking employees Strategies Activities Internalizing Ethical Culture and Performance 52.0% In order to advance as an outstanding organization in terms of ethical management system that 14.1%p In order to establish transparent ethical management and internalize an ethical culture within 37.9% Persons can recognize, KORAIL has set up an enhanced system of pursuing ethical management the organization, KORAIL established a dedicated division for ethical management in 2019, and under the goal of ‘achieving the 1st grade in overall integrity by 2020.’ In addition, we are has further upgraded the ethical management system. In addition, we improve the ethical level presenting an ethics charter, a code of ethics, and a code of conduct for employees and other of all employees through differentiated ethics training provided by position. We have reinforced 2018 2019 rules to ensure employees follow voluntary ethical behaviors. We are working hard to realize the anti-corruption index in the KPI of high-ranking employees, and added indicator that gives ethical management by concentrating the corporation-wide capabilities on the creation of an Anti-Corruption Awareness Level disadvantage upon detection of power abusing behavior, and distributed the integrity webanti-corruption and integrity culture. 83.7points toon leaflet created by the employee based on actual cases of corruption to the employees to 82.9points underline the necessity of ethical standard improvement. As a result, in the 2019 anti-corruption 0.8points Ethical Management Systems awareness survey, the corruption level of high-ranking employees decreased by 14.1%p Slogan Fast and safe railway! Fair and ethical KORAIL! compared to 2018, and the level of anti-corruption awareness rose 0.8 points compared to 2018. We are also striving to enhance transparency in organizational and personnel management. Advancing to become a leading public corporation in terms of integrity management 2018 2019 Goals To ensure fair recruitment, we established the Recruitment and Personnel Committee, randomly (Achieving the 2nd Grade in Overall Integrity in 2020 and Achieving the 1st Grade in Anti-Corruption Initiative Assessment) assigning test supervisors and interviewers, and providing employment opportunities to victims Strengthening integrity Improving unfair practice in Improving corruption-prone areas Spreading whistle blower protection Anti-Corruption Initiative Assessment Strategies management system economic activities preemptively and voluntarily and integrity culture of corruption in employment to increase public credibility through a transparent employment system. As a result, the overall integrity level announced by the Anti-Corruption and Civil Rights Strategies Detailed tasks Strategies Detailed tasks Achieving ‘Best’grade for 5 Commission increased 0.18 points from 8.24 points in 2018 to 8.42 points in 2019, and we were 1. ‌Implementing integrity management by reinforcing responsibility of 13. Enhancing the transparency and fairness in its own public contest consecutive years high-ranking employees 14. ‌Introducing public architect system for fair design competition selected as an Excellent Case in HR Innovation in employment sector hosted by the Ministry of 2. ‌Creating consensus on CEO three-Zeros management philosophy review ① ‌Strengthening the Interior. 3. ‌Strengthening the performance system for job integrity for high③ ‌Improving corruption15. Securing transparency in public fund execution projects By Ministry of Interior Selected as integrity management ranking employees prone areas preemptively 16. Securing ‌ accounting transparency by improving the accounting system and voluntarily system Endeavoring to Activate Reports 4. ‌Carrying out company-wide integrity innovation activities for integrity management 17. Preventing the dead zone of corruption in the safety field Excellent Case in HR 5. Improving the evaluation system to improve integrity 18. ‌Establishing the order of fair railway use by preventing illegal Innovation In order to create a culture of integrity by promoting voluntary reports of employees, KORAIL 6. Easing unreasonable and unfair regulation for customers 7. ‌Ensuring equal opportunities for participation through deregulation rides 19. ‌Promoting corruption reports by strengthening the whistle blower in employment sector has become the first public corporation to introduce a ‘Safe Report Attorney System that ② ‌Improving unfair practice for railroad business protection has been designed to block the information of a reporter from the beginning as an external in economic activities 8. Complying with fair trade culture in signing contracts 20. ‌Preventing the acts that hinder public interest such as attorney makes a report by proxy, thus enhancing anonymity. In addition, we have established a 9. Realizing win-win market ecosystem with railway partners ④ ‌Spreading whistleblower interference with customer satisfaction surveys protection and integrity 21. Strengthening integrity education for public officials compensation system for victims of corruption under which compensation is paid when victims 10. Preventing unfair trade in the private sector culture 11. Improving the system for fair employment 22 Making efforts to eradicate power abuse of corruption are suffering from disadvantages such as trauma. As a result, the number of reports ③ ‌Improving corruptionprone areas preemptively 12. Enhancing ‌ transparency and fairness of the internal review 23.Internalizing integrity of public-private governance activities of unethical conduct in 2019 increased by 35% compared to 2018. And we are encouraging and voluntarily committee 24. Spreading a culture of integrity in the private sector employees’ voluntary participation in establishing an ethical culture by introducing rewards for participants in diagnosis of ethical standards and holding an internal integrity idea contest. Organizations Implementing Ethical Management Operating Counseling Channel for Ethics and Compliance In order to enhance the implementation competence on ethical management, KORAIL is operating an ethical management implementation organization that is led by the Office of Future KORAIL is operating various counseling channels for ethics and compliance to improve Planning and Innovative Strategy and consists of others such as the Audit & Inspection Office, accessibility for reporting corruption. We have established internal reporting channels such as the Office of Human Resources Management and Safety Administration HQs. At the same time, Corruption Eradication Center, Barmi Reporter, and Safe Report Attorney System, and operate we are securing the expertise of ethical management by establishing the Ethical Management the Audit Policy Advisory Group and Integrity Citizens Auditor as an external counseling channel Committee and the Transparent Management Committee so as to expand ethical management to receive advice on audit and integrity policies. In addition, we are contributing to the eradication throughout our businesses, improve internal check systems, and focus on incorrupt work. The of corruption by establishing open counseling channels, such as operating a real-time counseling Ethical Management Committee will be further developed into a committee where civic groups center for the Improper Solicitation and Graft Act, which provides real-time counseling through and external experts are included. Counseling Channel for Ethics and Compliance social network. Organizations Implementing Ethical Management Internal External SNS External Communication Ethical Management Control Tower Corruption Eradication Center, Barmi Reporter, Audit Policy Advisory Group and Integrity Citizens Real-time counseling center for the Improper Private-Public Integrity Society Council/Integrity Overall Management and Safe Report Attorney System Auditor Solicitation and Graft Act Culture Activities for Persons (Office of Future Planning and Innovative Strategy Human Right/ Social Counseling and reports on power abuse, Advice on audit (13 times)/Policy consultation Instant counseling and answer using social Integrity council for public corporation (4 times) Environment Areas Contribution/ Gender Integrity Mutual Growth Fair Recruitment & Safety corruption, and violation of code of conduct (68 meeting (2 times)/System improvement (3 network such as ‘KakaoTalk Plus’ (68 cases) and Daejeon Integrity council (2 times)/Children Equality cases)/ Legal counseling (13 cases) and proxy cases)/ Proposals for integrity policy (5 times)/ Integrity Railroad Traveling (45 persons)/ Integrity report (1case) On-site audit (2 times) Campaign for Customers (5 times) Office of Future Office of Human Audit & Inspection Office of Financial Safety Planning and Resources Office Management Administration HQs Innovative Strategy Management Human Rights KORAIL Sustainability Report 2019-20 78 79 S u s t ai n a b ili t y M a n a g e m e n t S y s t e m Management Employees Human Rights Respect System Human Rights Management System Recruitment irregularities such as recruitment Reinforcing Effectiveness of Human Rights Remedies Guidelines Details solicitation detected in 2019 Article 5 (Equal treatment) Pursuing Human Rights Management In order to ensure the effectiveness of human rights remedies within the organization, we Rules of 0cases Article 51 (Gender equality and maternity protection) are striving to implement a grievance handling system trusted by victims. In line with the Employment Article 52 (Arrangement and promotion) HR regulations Article 10 (Principle of employment) In order to practice human-right-friendly management and prevent human rights violations that enforcement of the Workplace Harassment Prevention Act, KORAIL revised its rules of Article 6 (Equal treatment) could be caused by a company, we have established and operated the human rights system. In employment, diagnosed harassment within the organization, and included relevant matters in Article 23 (Employment of employees) Article 46 (Personal information collection and addition, we have established a four-stage roadmap to realize human rights management and Human Rights Education Customized by Position the on-site tour training and labor-management newsletter to raise awareness of employees Collective protection) formed the Human Rights Management Committee making the CEO the chairman, adopting (2019) on human rights remedies in 2019. In addition, we expanded the reporting channel to include Agreement Article 47 (Human rights protection and antiguidelines on human rights management, enacting the charter of human rights, conducting discrimination) Article 80 (Gender equality and maternity protection) Article 136 (Protection of non-regular workers) human rights effect evaluations, providing relief procedures, and carrying out other human rights 4,852persons phone, Internet, mobile, and face-to-face reports, and introduced a Chatbot service that enables 24-hour counseling so that the processing of reports on harassment and sexual harassment activities. In this way, we have laid the organizational, legal and institutional foundation for human can be proceeded more quickly and systematically. Furthermore, by establishing a grievance rights management. Sexual Harassment Prevention Education (2019) counseling office served by professional counselors by region, we have established a system that Four Stages of Pursuing Human Rights Management allows immediate notification of damage. In addition, KORAIL makes various efforts to improve employees’ human rights awareness and to create a human rights-friendly organizational Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Stage 4 29,527persons culture, such as broadcasting human rights remedies related programs through the in-house TV Establishing Human Rights Conducting Human Implementing and Disclosing broadcasting system, and providing customized human rights education and sexual harassment Providing Relief Procedures Management Systems Rights Effect Evaluations Human Rights Management prevention education for each position. •‌Designating Divisions and Persons in •‌Evaluating Effects Corporate Operations •‌Establishing and Implementing Measures to •‌Providing Relief Organizations, Procedures Charge Would Have on Human Rights: Evaluating Prevent High Risks Detected after Evaluating of Reporting Damages, Relief Procedures Comprehensive Effects Corporate Effects on Human Rights and Relief Measures •‌Establishing Guidelines on Implementing Activities Would Have on Human Rights Human Rights Violation Reporting System Human Right Management •‌Making and Disclosing Final Reports on •‌Forming and Operating the Human Rights •‌Evaluating Human Rights Effects on Main Human Rights Management including Projects: Finding out and Analyzing Human Rights Management Systems, KORAIL operates a human rights violation reporting system as a channel to report violations Management Committee Negative Effects Specific Projects Would Human Rights Surveys, Human Rights Effect •‌Proclaiming and Internally and Externally Have on Human Rights Evaluation, Measures and Projects to of human rights and discrimination by the corporation and its employees. Employees and any Spreading Human Rights Management Prevent Negative Effects on Human Rights stakeholders of KORAIL whose human rights are violated related to the management activities and Other Improvements or who are adversely treated in the employment can make a report. Reports can be made online or by mail, and upon receipt of the report, the relevant information is notified to the remedy Forming the Human Rights Management Committee Forming and Operating the Human Rights Management Committee organization, and then the remedy organization or the audit office conducts an investigation. If ClassificationMembers KORAIL has organized a Human Rights Management Committee composed of the management violations of human rights or discrimination are recognized, we recommend the violator or the CEO, Head of the Future Innovation including the CEO and four external experts to discuss and deliberate on major policies head of the relevant division to implement remedies, such as correction and improvement and Internal Office, Head of Administration Planning Office, Members Head of the Audit Office, Head of Passenger related to human rights management. Various stakeholders, including human rights experts, we thoroughly keep the information confidential. Transport HQ customers, suppliers, and representatives of the underprivileged are involved in the Human Labor Union Status of KORAIL (As of Dec. 31, 2019) The Labor Union* (1), Human Rights External Experts (2), Customer (1), Partner (1), Rights Management Committee to have in-depth discussions on issues related to human rights Korean Railway Workers’ Union Guaranteeing Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining Members One Representing the Disadvantaged** (1) management. According to the recommendations of the National Human Rights Commission of Number of Date of KORAIL guarantees employees’ freedom of association and collective bargaining rights. We Umbrella organization * ‌Considering the interests of the labor union, it is included in Korea, the committee is composed of a majority of external members, holding regular committee union members establishment provide timely information required for labor activities to trade union representatives, and refrain the external members 21,498persons Nov. 11, 1945 KCTU/KPTU ** A child human rights expert has been invited meeting once per year, and irregular meetings when necessary. The Human Rights Management from intervening in union management to ensure employees’ legitimate union activities. Committee, held in 2019, deliberated the results of the human rights impact assessment Korean Railroad Labor Union conducted for the first time by the corporation and discussed measures to eradicate power Prohibiting Discrimination Number of Date of Umbrella organization abuse and expand employee grievance handling services. As such, the Committee is striving to union members establishment realize responsible human rights management. FKTU/Korea KORAIL prohibits any discrimination based on gender, education background, and career, 2,408persons Feb. 14, 2017 Public Society Union and preventing employees from receiving any unfair or irrational treatment in terms of KORAIL Labor Union recruitment, wages and welfare due to the physical defect, race, culture, and so forth. In Human Rights Management Promotion Activities addition, in accordance with the rules of employment and HR regulations, we are ensuring fair Number of Date of Umbrella organization evaluations and equal opportunities for all employees through a blind recruitment system and union members establishment Carrying Out Human Rights Impact Assessment 11persons Dec. 31, 2012 giving feedback on the entire recruitment process by establishing the Recruitment Committee, and applying fair rules to any types of recruitments. Regardless of the hiring type, the same KORAIL conducted a human rights impact assessment to protect and promote the human Railway Union standards are applied without discrimination to new hires, high school graduates, and college rights of its stakeholders. In order to improve the employees’ understanding of the human rights Number of Date of Umbrella organization graduates and we have secured equality and fairness by providing irregular workers with the union members establishment impact assessment, we conducted a visiting briefing session and supplemented a total of 156 159persons Oct. 11, 2012 same level of wages paid to regular workers doing similar jobs in similar industries. Meanwhile, questions with advice from external experts on the evaluation checklist. In addition, we adopted KORAIL is enhancing the status of female workers within the organization by nurturing female objective evaluation criteria by preparing the 9th grade evaluation formula. The results of the KORAIL Union managers to overcome the glass ceiling of hiring women due to the characteristics of the railway human rights impact assessment have been reviewed and verified by the human rights division, Number of Date of Umbrella organization transport industry. In order to create a corporate culture of gender equality, we are supporting external experts, and the Human Rights Management Committee. As a result, it was found that union members establishment the establishment of an external female leaders’ network, implementing programs to enhance 91% of the items assessed revealed a low negative impact on the human rights environment. 203persons Sept. 23, 2019 the capability of female leadership and striving to increase the number of female managers. KORAIL plans to reinforce its human rights protection policy by specializing in and upgrading the human rights impact assessment by expanding the evaluation category to major business evaluations in addition to institutional operation evaluation. Risk KORAIL Sustainability Report 2019-20 80 Stakeholders’ S u s t ai n a b ili t y M a n a g e m e n t S y s t e m Management Inclusiveness Risk Management System Communications with Stakeholders KORAIL aims to lay the foundation for sustainable growth by systematically managing risks Communication and collaboration with stakeholders are most important to enhancing the arising from the uncertain business environment and management activities. In consideration future value of KORAIL. KORAIL has divided its stakeholders into four groups based on the of the characteristics of the railroad business, we divide the risk types into business crisis risk level of their interests and influences: the public/customers, employees/labor union, national and disaster-related risk, and strive to minimize damage caused by risks through preliminary assembly/government/media, competent authorities/partners and overseas railway, and shared management and prompt follow-up response to risk factors. We designate a dedicated division sustainability management issues through the group-tailored communication channel. In for an efficient response system, and operate an emergency response mechanism with the CEO 2019, we established a communication and feedback system to carefully examine the needs as the head of the division for a disaster crisis. Meanwhile, we have established and operated a of stakeholders and to actively reflect their opinions. KORAIL will continue its sustainability management system to ensure efficient investment management by identifying financial and management activities through smooth communication and cooperation with various non-financial risk factors in advance. In addition, we are operating various committees such as stakeholders and build sound relationships of trust. the Management Strategy Committee, Financial Risk Management Committee, Investment and Business Deliberation Committee, Overseas Business Risk Management Committee, and Railroad Safety Deliberation Committee to strengthen the stability of railway operation. National assembly/ Competent authorities/ Stakeholders The public/customers Employees/labor union Overseas railway government/media partners Risk Types Management Crisis Disaster crises Investment Risk Financial Risk Information Security Communications Risk Natural Disasters Human-Caused Disasters Railway Terror Increasing convenience Self-development Transparency, accuracy Strengthen collaboration Preparing Continental railway Planning and Office of Financial Office of Future Office of Public Civil Engineering Division Safety Administration HQs Safety Administration HQs Matters of Coordination HQs Management (Fund Planning and Relations and Cultural (Infrastructure Management (Safety Management (Emergency Planning Interest (Strategic Planning Management and Tax Innovative Strategy (IT Affairs (Public Relations Request for participation Work and life balance Strengthening public value Win-win growth Advancing into overseas Department) Department) Department) Department) Affairs Department) Strategy Department) Department) railway markets Management/Financial Crisis Control Systems KORAIL TALK app. Intranet Railway Win-Win Platform SNS, VOC KORAIL TV KORAIL website E-Procurement System iRaTCA Risks Targets Institutions and Regulations Controlling Systems Controlling Systems Online Online Online Online Online Market Risk Regulations on Financial Risk Management/ Manuals Sales Information System (BS) Communication on Response to Crisis / Corporation-Wide Resource Channel Liquidity Risk Management System (KOVIS) Offline Offline Offline Offline Offline Financial Risk Comprehensive Financial Citizen engagement innovation Current issue presentation Competent authorities meeting OSJD Financial Risk Management Committee/ Investment Junior Board Information System (KoFIS) group meeting Investment Risk and Project Deliberation Committee / Overseas Labor Relations Council Meeting with customers KOTRA Internal Accounting System Project Risk Management Committee Customer evaluation group Press conference (ICAN) Railway Safety Deliberation Committee’s Manuals on Sales Risk Sales Risk Safety Management System Emergency Response Systemized Communication Channel •‌Expanding VOC reception desk •‌Expanding operation of •‌Participating in government/ •‌Establishing the Joint Railroad •‌Establishing permanent OSJD Emergency Response Organization When Facing Disaster Crises (PC-Mobile) Junior Board public agency consultative Facility Safety Innovation cooperation system •‌Establishing media articles (136 persons-168 persons) bodies Group (KORAIL-KRNA) (employee dispatch) and SNS analysis website •‌Operating labor/management •‌Holding presentation for •‌Renewing Railway Win-Win •‌Expanding cooperation •‌Adding social network councils (56 times) media on railroad site Platform (cooperation and system with KOTRA CEO (4 times) communication platform (Head of the channel (Instagram) between partners and Organization) KORAIL) Major Communication Performance in 2019 •‌Enhancing accessibility to •‌Executing communication •‌Preemptively implementing •‌Strengthening cooperation •‌Holding a Conference of VOC report and reinforcing activities between job titles government policy between KORAL and KRNA General Directors of OSJD Safety Transport Team PR Support Team Transport Support Team Restoration Support Team feedback and generations (support for Gangneung (81 cases of improvement of Railways (Head of the Safety (Head of the Management (Head of the (Head of the Technology forest fire-affected area) industrial accident and Innovation Division) and Planning Division) Supervision Division) Division) •‌Conducting national •‌Appointing irregular workers •‌Partners successfully advance awareness survey (quarterly), to regular workers 96,584 •‌Creating consensus on accident prevention system) into overseas markets (signed detecting real-time issue persons) railroad issues •‌Developing parts localization, contract worth 6 billion dollar) •‌Handling Transporting Passengers •Handling External Affairs •‌Handling Metropolitan Transport •‌Increasing frequency of and expanding purchasing •Adjusting Train Operation •Handling Rolling Stock •Handling the Press •‌Handling Transporting Logistics from partners (8.4billion in •‌Handling Accident •Handling Facilities participation by strengthening •Handling Legal Issues •‌Handling Compensating for Investigation •Handling Electricity two-way communication 2018)-13.6 billion won in •Handling Support Damages •‌Handling Responding to Customers 2019, increasing 62%) Stakeholders’ KORAIL Sustainability Report 2019-20 82 83 S u s t ai n a b ili t y M a n a g e m e n t S y s t e m Inclusiveness Interviews with Stakeholders Ku Kyo-hoon, Professor of International Trade at Ewha University Hwang Hye-jin, Representative Director of Daejeon Public Arts Research Institute KORAIL is losing competitiveness in the logistics sectors due to poor performance. In terms of the Although the headquarters of KORAIL has been located in Daejeon for a long time, it is somewhat administrative system and decision-making process, it is somewhat regrettable that KORAIL is overly regrettable that KORAIL’s historical and cultural understanding of and contribution to the Daejeon emphasizing the public value, and lacks business thinking in the logistics sector. Accordingly, in order area is insufficient. Compared to the public institutions located in the Daejeon area (Research complex, to achieve sustainable growth, KORAIL should enhance its competitiveness in the railroad logistics Techno park, CNCITY energy, Daejeon Metropolitan Railway Corporation, various governmentsectors and innovate human resources and make material investment in the logistics sectors. By supported organizations) which make a considerable level of effort to contribute to the local clearly separating passenger transportation and logistics, it has to maintain and reinforce public value community, KORAIL’s efforts and contributions are somewhat insufficient. Only a few local residents for passenger transportation, while seeking economies of scale and efficiency for logistics sector, are aware of the activities KORAIL is conducting. Accordingly, it is necessary for KORAIL to lower Sustainable growth requires enhancing competitiveness and creating profits. In addition, manpower management needs to be Strengthening engagement in and administrative barriers to frequently communicate with local residents and activists to enhance enhanced competitiveness of arranged in a balanced manner among regions, headquarters and branch offices. In this regard, the contribution to local communities understanding of the local community, to collect various opinions and to conduct activities centered railway logistics business Sustainability Report of KORAIL needs to present a feasible and long-term vision for the logistics sector utilizing historical and cultural on cultural contents. In this regard, I hope that the Sustainability Report of KORAIL summarizes the in implementing its social responsibility. 120-year history of KORAIL, which reveals the history and culture of railways, and reflects the value of contents focusing on the railway railway in Daejeon, where the headquarters is located. Through this, KORAIL needs to present a longterm vision whereby contribution activities to the local community will continue, focusing on historical and cultural contents. Park Yong-hoon, Director of Daejeon Community Chest of Korea Bae Eun-seok, CSI&Tech KORAIL is a large-scale public corporation that most actively participates in social welfare community KORAIL is the representative domestic railroad operator, and it has well organized regulations, fundraising in the Daejeon area, and local public institutions also have very high expectations for procedures, standards, and logistics information, providing high reliability and transparency. KORAIL KORAIL’s local community activities. In particular, the idea of ​​contributing to the local community needs to promote the growth of SMEs that manufacture parts through localization of rolling stocks using its own business content (Happy Train, etc.) is highly desirable. I hope that KORAIL’s activities parts, thereby revitalizing the domestic economy and supporting entry into the overseas markets. to contribute to the community centered on cultural contents will be conducted in various ways. In KORAIL encourages technology development through national R&D projects commissioned by the addition, the provision of CS training for employees in the social welfare field by KORAIL’s employees Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport and the Ministry of SMEs and Start-ups, and its own R&D who provide face-to-face services may be considered as an activity for the socially underprivileged. support called the ‘Railway Technology Commercialization Support Project.’ KORAIL shares the R&D Presenting KORAIL’s efforts and I hope that the Sustainability Report of KORAIL will present KORAIL’s efforts and plan for the socially Actively implementing localization results with participating companies through the ‘Standard Contract for Performance Sharing System.’ plan for the socially underprivileged underprivileged. It is a very commendable example of providing free tickets for medical personnel and of rolling stock parts and Localization of parts will improve the safety and affordability of KORAIL by reducing costs through volunteers when the nation is suffering from the Coronavirus pandemic. In addition, it would be great if components for the growth of localization of parts and enabling timely maintenance of railroad vehicles with a faster procurement support for firefighters, sanitation workers and other social workers are included. lead time compared to overseas manufacturers. When developing R&D technology, if domestic local SMEs parts manufacturers can commercialize the parts that lead to purchases by KORAIL, they can devote themselves to technology development. These policies are essential for sustainable win-win growth between KORAIL and SMEs. Lee Yong-sang, Professor of Railway Management at Woosong University Kim Hyun-jong, Head of Korea Employment Agency for Persons with Disabilities In fact, KORAIL has a long history of more than 100 years, and is a company with sufficient heritage KORAIL seems to be doing relatively well in hiring the disabled by adopting audio guiding devices and value to grow into a global railroad company. It is believed that KORAIL can be sustainable if it for the visually impaired, seats reservation for the disabled, information on employment for the strengthens the safety of railroads and expands new growth businesses. It is judged that the safety disabled, call taxis for the disabled, and socially equitable employment. KORAIL currently shows awareness of KORAIL is high. However, I hope that KORAIL puts safety first in all operating activities higher compliance with the mandatory employment of the disabled than other public corporations. and makes all divisions and organization fulfil their responsibilities for safety, internalizing safety However, with respect to the recent increase in the mandatory employment rate for the disabled by awareness, and considers safety as a kind of culture and investment rather than expenditure. Currently, public corporations (3.6% in 2022 -> 3.8% in 2024) and the increase in the management evaluation KORAIL boasts world-class competitiveness in the passenger sector, but as the era of the inter-Korean (quantitative and non-quantitative) related to the employment of the disabled, KORAIL is required to Customer safety is the first priority, railway and even the Continental railway arrives in the future, KORAIL should be equipped with global Preparing for increased preemptively secure jobs for the disabled. At the same time, it is necessary to preemptively consider and the organization needs to competitiveness to realize sustainable management. The Sustainability Report needs to put safety at employment of the disabled and creating jobs that are innovative and expand and spread social values, such as the current project to internalize the core technologies the highest level in the value chain of KORAIL, and it should highlight what efforts KORAIL has made actively considering the safety of expand jobs for the disabled using idle spaces in railway stations. In addition, KORAIL needs to improve for safety. In addition, I hope that the Report also includes strategies and plans for strengthening safety the various constraints that passengers with disabilities who use railways face when transferring to needed for the future and in the future. Moreover, in the era of continental railroads, I hope it shows the long-term vision and customers, the disabled and other means of transportation, and to train crew members to improve their awareness of the disabled. innovate its business model. examples of innovation for KORAIL to be competitive. employees The Sustainability Report should present KORAIL’s efforts to create jobs for the disabled and provide community space in the stations in the section on community participation activities of the report. Materiality KORAIL Sustainability Report 2019-20 84 85 S u s t ai n a b ili t y M a n a g e m e n t S y s t e m Evaluation Materiality Evaluation Process Materiality Evaluation Result 4.80 Significance for Stakeholders KORAIL has investigated important issues for its sustainability management by conducting 1 materiality evaluation based on the principles of sustainability context, materiality, completeness 4.60 2 and stakeholder inclusiveness, all of which are recommended by ISO 26000 and GRI Standards. 5 4 3 The table and contents of this report have been structured based on important issues for 4.40 6 KORAIL’s sustainability, and we have also worked hard to faithfully incorporate relevant data in 7 13 8 10 this report. 4.20 15 9 14 11 4.00 12 Materiality Evaluation Process 3.80 3.60 3.40 3.60 3.80 4.00 4.20 4.40 4.60 4.80 Step 1. Step 2. Step 3. ● Sustainable Management in General ● Economy ● Society ● Environment Significance for KORAIL Identification Prioritization Validation External Stakeholders Major Issues and Report TOC Structure No. Issues Report Priority in No. Major Issues Report TOC Boundary 2019 Securing safety and health for customers 1 (safely operating railways, securing the safety of trains Securing safety and health for customers (safely operating railways, 1 Safe Railroad Internal 1 and facilities) securing the safety of trains and facilities Identifying issues for sustainable 2 Complying with ethics and laws 2 Complying with ethics and laws Ethical Management Internal 2 Deciding priority of important management by analyzing internal Verifying effectiveness Improving customer satisfaction (Including smart services, 3 Securing safety and health at workplace Happy Workplace for Members Internal 3 issues through materiality evaluation 3 universal services, convenient services, etc.) and external environment Making fair contracts and procurement agreements Making fair contracts and procurement agreements 4 (prohibiting price collusions and other unfair trades, Growing Together with Partners Internal 11 Global Standard Analysis Relevance Evaluation Checking to see if 17 issues are important for 4 (prohibiting price collusion and other unfair trading, making fair-pricing biddings and others) making for fair-pricing bidding, etc.) Reviewing standard report requirements set by GRI Sorting out 29 related issues by evaluating the KORAIL’s sustainable management through Improving customer satisfaction (Including smart services, universal services, Convenient Railway for related TF discussions 5 Securing safety and health in the workplace 5 Internal 8 Standards, ISO 26000, UNGC, DJSI relevance of issues for sustainable management, convenient services, etc.) Customers 6 Improving indoor air quality and sanitary which were evaluated from the analysis of internal Providing Eco-Friendly Railroad Internal/ Media Analysis Deciding the level of the report in terms of the Expanding future new growth businesses 6 Improving indoor air quality and sanitary 7 and external environments for Future Generations external scope, boundary, period and others and 7 (Internalizing future core technologies, innovating Analyzing KORAIL-related news articles to check business model, etc.) Expanding future new growth engines Materiality (Significance) Evaluation establishing the plan to draw up the report external views on KORAIL (Internalizing future core technology, carrying 8 Managing economic/social/environmental risks 7 Future Railroad Internal 13 Prioritizing relevant issues and selecting 15 major out overseas and inter-Korean railway projects Benchmarking Reducing greenhouse gases and managing air quality issues by conducting online surveys of KORAIL’s 9 and implementing multiple projects) (Reducing fine dust, etc.) Identifying issues considered important by analyzing stakeholders from May 20 to June 15, 2020 Internal/ Securing information security and protecting personal 8 Managing economic/social/environmental risks Risk Management 9 similar corporations’ sustainability reports at 10 external information home and abroad 9 Securing governance transparency and expertise Governance Internal 6 Stakeholders’ Interviews Internal Stakeholders 10 Securing information security and protecting personal information Safe Railroad Internal 10 Conducting interviews after selecting six persons Materiality Evaluation Result No. Issues 11 Respecting human rights and prohibiting discriminations Human Rights Management Internal 4 who can represent core stakeholder groups to reason 1 Securing safety and health at workplace 12 Work-life balance Happy Workplace Internal 5 out detailed issues for sustainable management 2 Work and life balance Stakeholders’ Inclusiveness (Expanding communication channel and Internal/ 13 Stakeholders’ Inclusiveness 14 KORAIL’s stakeholders have evaluated the materiality of various issues for KORAIL’s sustainable 3 Complying with ethics and laws responding to the matter of interest) external management and selected 15 of them as important issues for KORAIL’s sustainable management. Securing safety and health for customers (safely 14 Safety and soundness of financial structure (Managing profitability) Business Portfolio Internal New Such issues ─ closely related to safety and human rights upon occurrence of coronavirus such 4 operating railways and securing the safety of trains and 15 Improving railway environment and energy management Providing Eco-Friendly Railroad Internal New facilities) for Future Generations as ‘customer safety and health’, ‘safety and health at the working place’, and ‘indoor air quality and sanitary’─ are considered important by KORAIL’s employees and stakeholders for KORAIL’s 5 Respecting human rights and prohibiting discrimination sustainable management in 2020. Respect for human rights, work-life balance, and governance, 6 Securing governance transparency and expertise Top-10 Issues Selected by Stakeholders 7 Managing economic/social/environmental risks which were at the top of the list last year, were ranked downward this year, and ‘stability and Respecting employees’ diversity and providing equal Through a survey, we analyzed issues that internal and external stakeholders value for soundness of financial structure’ and ‘improving railway environment and energy management’ 8 opportunities KORAIL’s sustainability. External stakeholders selected ‘customer safety and health’ while were selected as new issues this year. 9 Expanding future new growth engines (internalizing internal stakeholders selected ‘safety and health in the workplace,’ which means both internal future core technology, innovating business model, etc.) and external stakeholders consider ‘safety and health’ as an important issue for KORAIL’s 10 Pursuing win-win labor-management relations sustainability management, considering the recent social circumstances. KORAIL Sustainability Report 2019-20 Sustainability Performance A p p e n d i x Economic Performance Summary of Consolidated Financial Statement Classification Unit 2017 2018 2019 Current Assets KRW 100 Million 17,134 16,267 23,821 Assets Non-Current Assets KRW 100 Million 181,649 204,901 202,785 Total Assets KRW 100 Million 198,783 221,168 226,606 Current Liabilities KRW 100 Million 28,545 38,558 26,077 Liabilities Non-Current Liabilities KRW 100 Million 120,262 116,974 137,221 Total Liabilities KRW 100 Million 148,807 155,532 163,298 Paid-in Capital KRW 100 Million 102,510 103,215 103,957 Loss KRW 100 Million (92,279) (93,479) (94,510) Capital Other Capital Components KRW 100 Million 38,348 54,289 52,162 Non-Controlling Shareholders’ Equity KRW 100 Million 1,397 1,611 1,699 Total Capital KRW 100 Million 49,976 65,636 63,308 Summary of Consolidated All-Inclusive Income Statement Classification Unit 2017 2018 2019 Appendix Sales KRW 100 Million 57,867 63,268 64,014 Cost of Sales KRW 100 Million 59,177 60,101 61,439 Gross Profit KRW 100 Million (1,310) 3,167 2,575 Sales and Administrative Expenses KRW 100 Million 3,389 3,506 3,658 Operating Profit KRW 100 Million (4,699) (339) (1,083) Sustainability Sustainability Other Profit KRW 100 Million 146 233 665 Performance Reporting Other Expenses KRW 100 Million 901 709 588 Bodies Other Profit (Loss) KRW 100 Million (1,402) 1,140 1,397 Financial Revenue KRW 100 Million 1,324 645 572 Financial Cost KRW 100 Million 5,285 4,530 3,789 Third Party’s Key Awards and Profit from Associates and Joint Ventures KRW 100 Million (811) 205 339 Verification Memberships Net (Loss) on Continuing Operations before Income Tax KRW 100 Million (11,628) (3,355) (2,487) Statement Income Tax Expenses KRW 100 Million (3,073) (2,305) (2,018) Profit (Loss) from Continuing Operations KRW 100 Million (8,555) (1,050) (469) Profit (Loss) from Discontinued Operations KRW 100 Million UNGC GRI & ISO Net Income (Loss) KRW 100 Million (8,555) (1,050) (469) Membership Net Income (Loss) Attributable to Owners of the Parent Company KRW 100 Million (8,744) (1,267) (566) 26000 Index and Support Net Income Attributable to Non-Controlling Shareholders’ Equity KRW 100 Million 189 218 97 Other Comprehensive Income (After Tax) KRW 100 Million 9,453 16,007 (2,557) Total Comprehensive Income (Loss) KRW 100 Million 898 14,957 (3,026) UN SDGs Capital Attributable to Owners of the Parent Company KRW 100 Million 716 14,735 (3,114) Implementation Non-Controlling Shareholders’ Equity KRW 100 Million 182 221 88 Status Sustainability KORAIL Sustainability Report 2019-20 88 89 A p p e n d i x Performance Creating and Distributing Economic Values Classification Unit 2017 2018 2019 Staggered Office Hours System (Conversion) Persons 183 271 184 Classification Unit 2017 2018 2019 Notes Flexible Work System Flexible Work System (Staggered Hours System + Intensive Persons 2,297 4,326 4,633 Creating Economic Value (A) KRW 100 Million 52,853 58,690 59,901 Work System) Sales KRW 100 Million 50,572 55,545 56,027 Parental Leave Status of Maternity Leave Persons 414 399 374 Financial Income and Profit on Assets System Status of Paternity Leave Persons 147 190 244 KRW 100 Million 2,281 3,145 3,874 Sold and Others Education Budget KRW 1 Million 8,051 8,373 8,582 Distributed Economic Value (B) KRW 100 Million 52,535 53,732 55,168 Per-Capita Training KRW1,000 306 303 301 Wages, Benefits, Welfare Expenses, Education Employees KRW 100 Million 26,499 24,824 26,614 No. of Regular Trainees Persons 78,094 53,686 62,547 Severance Payments , etc. Curriculum Numbers 507 530 671 Facility Utilization Expenses, Partners KRW 100 Million 24,219 26,352 26,017 Consignment Fees, etc. BOD Investors KRW 100 Million 3,880 3,714 3,258 Interest Expenses No. of Times of Holding Meetings No. of Times 12 13 11 National Taxes, Income Taxes, Local Agendas to be Voted Cases 22 37 29 Government Bodies KRW 100 Million (2,914) (6,011) (1,682) Taxes , etc. Operation Attendance % 90.2 93.2 95.9 Social Contributions, KTX Public Performance Customers/Local Communities KRW 100 Million 851 911 961 Preliminary Deliberations % 100 100 100 Discounts , etc. Surplus Economic Value (A-B) KRW 100 Million 318 4,958 4,733 Agendas to be Revised (Rate) Cases (%) 1(4.5) 3(8.1) 4(13.8) Agendas to be Reported Cases 9 11 13 No. of Times of Holding Meetings No. of Times 13 15 24 Sub-Committee No. of Agendas to be Presented Cases 29 38 38 Social Performance Non-Executive Speeches Made by Non-Executive Directors % 57.0 65.0 79.7 Directors Classification Unit 2017 2018 2019 Labor-Management Relations Employees Cooperation Level of Labor-Management Cooperation Scores 3.35 3.52 3.70 No. of Total Employees Persons 26,352 26,983 29,281.5 Ethics and Human Rights No. of Fixed-Term Workers (Male/Female) Persons 70(2) 55(1) 55(1) Anti-Corruption Evaluating Measures to Prevent Anti-Corruption Grade 1 2 2 Under 25 Persons 186 309 722.5 Human Rights Internal Reports Cases 30 51 69 25-34 Persons 2,604 3,824 5,736.25 Integrity Comprehensive Integrity Level Scores 8.18 8.24 8.42 No. of Employees 35-44 Persons 6,677 6,040 6,455.375 Customers in Each Age Bracket Employment 45-54 Persons 12,619 12,634 12,810.75 Communication Status of Collecting Complaints from VOC Cases (%) 13,373(28.7) 11,941(29.8) 12,195(29.3) 55 or above Persons 4,266 4,176 3,556.625 Punctual Operation Punctuality Rate of High-Speed Train Operations % 99.76 99.79 99.8 Employment of the Disabled Rate Punctuality Rate of Regular Train Operations % 98.14 99.30 99.5 Persons (%) 858(3.1) 920(3.2) 971(3.1) (Mandatory Employment Rate of 3.2%) Partners Employment of the Elderly Persons (%) 5,521(19.7) 4,191(14.5) 5,287(16.8) Purchasing Products made by SMEs KRW 100 Million 8,014 7,269 7,224 (Mandatory Employment Rate of 6.0%) Average Years of Service Years 18.6 17.8 16.1 Rate of Purchasing Products made by SMEs % 76.0 80.8 86.4 Supports No. of Newly Employed Workers Persons 1,059 2,185 3,965.5 Performance-Sharing Project Outcome Cases 16 64 50 Under 20 Persons 106 91 63 Cooperative-Profit-Sharing Project (Implemented from 2018)Cases 1 3 21-25 Persons 416 648 417 Local Communities New Recruitment 26-30 Persons 436 976 1,869 Social Contribution Fund KRW 1 Million 603 588 580 in Each Age Bracket Raising Funds 31-35 Persons 75 210 361 Matching Grants KRW 1 Million 589 639.7 603 Recruitment 36-40 Persons 18 138.5 265.5 Local Volunteers’ Service Hours 1,000 hours 246,964 194,878 70,672 Volunteer Hours 41 or above Persons 8 121.5 990 Per-Capita Volunteer Hours Hours 12 15 9.46 Metropolitan Area No. of KORAIL Village Beneficiaries Persons 4,202 1,818 3,205 New Recruitment Persons 531 1,053.5 1,553.5 (Seoul, Incheon, Gyeonggi) No. of Persons Experiencing Railway Experiencing & Learning by Region Persons 42,591 Non-Metropolitan Area Persons 528 1,131.5 2,412 Zones 7,705 10,267 Retirement Retirement Rate (%) % 2.0 4.8 4.8 No. of Times of KORAIL Orchestra Performances No. of Times 11 8 9 Social No. of Operations Persons 2,974 3,230 3,454 No. of Times of Operations Contributions No. of Times 193 236 282 Happy Train Happy TrainNo. of Times Employment of Females % 10.64 11.16 12.21 No. of Beneficiaries-Persons Persons 11,765 12,547 15,112 Female Employees (Mandatory Employment Rate of 9.97%) No. of Female Managers (Rate) Persons (%) 288(8.58) 322(9.37) 365(10.48) Hope Project for No. of jobs-No. of Jobs Cases 40 45 75 the Homeless EmployedPersons Persons 59 56 113 No. of Newly-Employed Females (Rate) Persons (%) 218(20.6) 402.5(18.4) 595(15) Sustainability KORAIL Sustainability Report 2019-20 90 91 A p p e n d i x Performance Classification Unit 2017 2018 2019 Classification Unit 2017 2018 2019 No. of Persons 1,000 Persons 7,375 7,858 8,322 Education The Elderly Discounted Amount KRW 100 Million 331 361 390 No. of Times Internal Education 3(90) 3(105) 3(110) (Persons) No. of Persons 1,000 Persons 3,728 3,792 2,700 Education Children No. of Times Pubic Discount Discounted Amount KRW 100 Million 464 476 313 External Education 15(78) 17(135) 20(148) (Persons) Services No. of Persons 1,000 Persons 3,927 3,946 3,984 The Disabled Environmental Effect Management Discounted Amount KRW 100 Million 307 309 307 Diesel for Railway Operation TJ 4,223 4,207 3,990 No. of Persons 1,000 Persons 341 348 360 Electricity for Railway Operation TJ 21,908 22,780 21,834 Men of National Merit Discounted Amount KRW 100 Million 71 70 70 Electricity for Other Ordinary Purposes TJ 4,012 4,439 4,378 Safety Energy Usage Cooling and Heating Fuels TJ 278 324 289 Safety Safety Management Case/1 Million Km 1.565 1.404 1.982 Business Vehicles TJ 72 73 83 Management Human Error Rate Case/1 Million Km 0.388 0.342 0.571 Total TJ 30,493 31,823 30,574 Investment Safety Investment KRW 100 Million 7,291 8,343 10,033 Diesel for Railway Operation tCO2eq 328,384 327,131 310,303 Compulsory Training on Electricity for Railway Operation tCO2eq 1,064,013 1,106,380 1,060,433 Persons 62 47 45 Disaster Safety Management Electricity for Other Ordinary Purposes tCO2eq 194,870 215,583 212,640 Integrated Training on Initial Training on Job Persons 61 90 51 Responses Cooling and Heating Fuels tCO2eq 14,859 17,197 15,335 Competence Greenhouse Gas CDP Training for Those in Business Vehicles tCO2eq 5,054 5,164 5,824 Persons 88 160 167 Emissions Charge of Safety Matters Total tCO2eq 1,607,180 1,671,455 1,604,535 Training on Safety Jobs Persons 161 198 193 Emission Allowances tCO2eq 2,000,571 1,941,126 2,227,202 Education Individual Psychological Persons 324 176 113 Emission Reduction Emissions tCO2eq 1,607,180 1,671,454 1,604,535 Counseling Services Mental Health and Rate of Reduction % 19.66 13.90 27.95 Visit-Based Psychological psychological Counseling Persons 253 70 254 Counseling Services Amount of Waste Water ㎥ 189,041 232,935 208,233 Services Handling Waste Personality-Finding Family Water Amount of Waste Water from Passenger Cars ㎥ 82,058 71,879 70,502 Persons 153 143 156 Program General Waste Tons 3,696 3,144 4,228 Aptitude Test on Railway Initial Test Persons 2,718 3,565 5,627 Handling Waste Designated Waste Tons 2,653 2,023 1,815 Safety Regular Test Persons 1,904 1,058 2,521 Environmental Effect Management Safety Culture Safety Culture Level Evaluation* Scores 79.6 80.4 82 Day Leq dB(A) 56 58 56 Passenger and Non-Passenger Casualty Accidents Persons 66 52 33 Ground Night Leq dB(A) 54 53 53 Accident Personal Information Leakage Accidents Cases 0 0 0 Noise Day Leq dB(A) 59 59.5 59 Cyber Infringement Accidents Cases 0 0 0 Expected Maximum Level Night Leq dB(A) 57 58.5 57 * The evaluation of safety culture level was previously conducted biannually, but it has been now conducted annually since 2018. Indoor Air Quality Underground ㎍/㎥ 69 78 72.4 Fine Dust Ground ㎍/㎥ 61 59 65 Environmental Performance Underground ppm 523 527 509 Carbon Dioxide Classification Unit 2017 2018 2019 Ground ppm 488 571 579 Railway Stations Investment Underground ㎍/㎥ 9 24 18 Formaldehyde Cases (Newly Established) Cases 23 23 31 Ground ㎍/㎥ 12 18 14 Water Underground ppm 1 1 1 Amount KRW 1 Million 278 270 177 Carbon Monoxide Cases (Newly Established) Cases 7 15 18 Ground ppm 1 1 1 Air Metropolitan Railways ㎍/㎥ 66 77 105 Investments in Amount KRW 1 Million 23 114 82 Environmental Fine Dust Cases (Newly Established) Cases 7 9 5 General Trains ㎍/㎥ 55 60 61 Facilities Land Crowded ppm 1,048 1,241 1,251 Amount KRW 1 Million 330 966 1,265 Metropolitan Rolling Stock Railways Normal ppm 1,263 1,394 1,062 Cases (Newly Established) Cases 5 9 3 Carbon Dioxide Waste Crowded ppm 1,225 1,163 1,509 Amount KRW 1 Million 180 412 13 General Trains Amount of Purchasing Green Products KRW 1 Million 2,589 7,126 1,707 Normal ppm 1,351 1,365 1,309 Purchasing Green Products Rate of Purchasing Green Products % 93.74 89.15 91.47 Third Party KORAIL Sustainability Report 2019-20 92 93 A p p e n d i x Assurance Report To the Management of Korea Railroad Assurance Findings > [Impact] Does KORAIL identify and measure economic, social, to confirm that KORAIL is analyzing social, environmental impacts and and environmental impacts on stakeholders and disclose the risks to stakeholders in the operation of KORAIL and major projects. The Institute for Industrial Policy Studies (hereinafter “Auditor”), hereby The Auditor discussed about the Report’s editing with KORAIL though results through the Report? presents the following statement of assurance, upon the request for written correspondence and reviewed the final draft of the Report to > GRI “In Accordance” Criteria auditing the 2019-2020 Sustainability Report (hereinafter “Report”) The Auditor confirmed that the KORAIL is properly measuring and confirm whether our requests and recommendations for revision were The Auditor has recognized that the Report is in accordance with the of Korea Railroad (hereinafter “KORAIL”) as a licensed sustainability disclosing the economic, environmental and social impact by presenting reflected. As a result, the Auditor could not find any contents violating “Core Option” criteria with General Disclosures of the GRI Standards. assurance provider. the results of the “soil environment assessment”, “safety culture level the following assurance principles, or any evidence showing major errors assessment”, “an analysis of the effects of employment inducement”, and > Reliability of Performance Indicators or bias in the performance information, statement or claims stated within Responsibility & Objective “an analysis of the effects of revitalizing the local economy” in the process the assurance scope. The Auditor confirmed that the performance indicators presented in of implementing the unique project in the Report. In addition, in the KORAIL is responsible for sustainable management performance the Report are free from bias or error that would affect stakeholders’ > ‌[Inclusivity] Were KORAIL’s stakeholder engagement plans process of promoting human rights management, the KORAIL conducted measures and all statements contained in this report. The objective of the judgement of KORAIL. Followings are the key performance indicators the and processes appropriate? an assessment on the human rights of employees and business partners assurance is to offer professional counsel for improving the quality of the Auditor has recognized. The Auditor confirmed that KORAIL recognizes the importance of report by; checking whether there were any errors or bias present in the communication and collaboration among various stakeholders in Category Issue Performance Indicators Report; by assessing whether the data collection system is in appropriate promoting sustainable management and establishes a process to Business Portfolio Convenient railway service for customers 22 minutes shorter commute time for wide-area railways working order; and by examining the process of identifying issues of reflect this in actual management activities. In particular, the Auditor Vision & Strategy Observance of ethics and regulations Operation status of transparent management ethics committee material importance to sustainability management. has identified that the KORAIL is working to further classify overseas Safety control rate : 1.967(number(of cases)/ train mileage 1 million km) Customer safety and health(safe railway management, Vehicle failure rate : 0.074(number(of cases)/ train mileage 1 million km) railways as new stakeholders and to provide appropriate communication Safe Rail Assurance Type & Level secure facility and vehicle safety) Facility failure rate : 1.333 (number(of cases)/ train mileage 1 thousand km) methods for the characteristics of the five groups, and to reflect them Status of operation of the railway safety management committee The Auditor referred to AA1000AP (2018) 1), ISAE30002), and GRI in sustainable management activities. The Auditor has not found any Shared Growth with Partner Fair contract and procurement Status of inspection of unfair practices in 94 construction sites nationwide Standards3) for the assurance of the Report. important stakeholders left out from this process. Companies A Happy Workplace for Members Workplace safety and health •Labor-management communication index : 3.60 •‌New recruits : 3,966 Assurance Scope Economic, environmental and social dimensions of the report’s > [Materiality] Does the Report offer substantive information of Governance Structure Transparency and expertise in governance structure Non-executive director performance management operation status performance measures and objectives material importance to KORAIL’s economic, environmental and Future Railways Representing Expansion of future new growth business(Internalization of •Overseas operating income : Annual average 6% growth Assurance Type & Level Type II Moderate level social stakeholders? Korea future core technologies, business model innovation, etc.) •Attraction of national growth-based items : 970,000 tons •‌“IPS Assurance Manual™” to verify compliance against the four core principles of AA1000AP (2018) The Auditor confirmed that KORAIL is identifying material issues affecting * 17 Qualitative and 23 quantitative performance indicators with regard to 40 material issues were reviewed, but only a few are presented in this assurance report. Assurance Criteria •‌“IPS Performance Indicators Assurance Criteria™” to assess the both stakeholders and management activities of the Authority and reliability of performance indicators based on ISAE3000 is appropriately disclosing the management status of those issues. In Recommendations Independence of the Auditor •‌GRI Standards: The compliance of the “Core Option” criteria particular, the method of identifying new sustainability issues through ‘assessment of ISO 26000 implementation level’ and stakeholder The Auditor highly values the Report’s endeavor to ① reflect the core The Auditor does not have any for-profit or commercial affiliation with Assurance Process and Activities interviews in preparation of the report every year, and prioritizing them themes of the KORAIL’s “management value system”, “sustainable KORAIL and did not involve in any of the preparations of the Report, with through the task force team meetings in charge is considered to be a management value system”, “social value realization strategy system”, the exception of this third party assurance statement. The Auditor confirmed ① the inclusivity, materiality, responsiveness, standardized ‘materiality analysis process’ adopted by the KORAIL. No and “environmental management system”; ② report performance related and impact of the reported content; ② the reliability of the reported omissions were discovered by the Auditor, in terms of sustainability to sustainability from a balanced perspective; ③ try to properly reflect Qualifications of the Auditor performance data; and ③ the GRI Standards “In accordance” criteria. management information important to stakeholders. the major issues of interest inside and outside the KORAIL through the •Review of KORAIL’s critical issue drawing process and following results stakeholder participation process; ④ transparently disclose the Authority’ The Institute for Industrial Policy Studies is a “Third Party Assurance •Review of the stakeholder engagement process > [Responsiveness] Does the Report provide an adequate s economic, environmental, and social performance improvement Provider” engaging in sustainability report assurance for corporations •R eview of data samples, other than financial statements, used response to stakeholder demands and interests? based on internal and external sustainability agendas including social and public organizations nationwide. The auditing team participating in as sources for economic, social and environmental quantitative value realization, human rights management, the UN SDGs, and the Ten the assurance of this report consists of experts specialized in disciplines The Auditor confirmed that KORAIL is operating diverse engagement performance measures Principles of UNGC. of business administration, economics, environmental studies, and channels appropriate for each key stakeholder and is identifying •R eview of reference materials underlying economic, social and accounting, and also with many years of accumulated experience material reporting issues through those opinions collected in the Recommended in future Reports with that KORAIL considers followings: environmental qualitative performance measures and professional training in the fields of ethical management, social process. “Overcoming COVID-19, KORAIL Together”, “Safe Rail”, “Ethics •Review of the Report’s compliance with GRI Standards •Clarity: Explaining the basis for calculation of various impacts, effects, responsibility management, and sustainable management. Management”, “Business Portfolio” were found to be areas of high stakeholder interest. It has been found in this process that KORAIL has etc. as a result of management and the basis for arithmetic or The Auditor conducted written correspondence with the reporting appropriately responded to stakeholder demands and interests. coefficient of use management and staff, within KORAIL, in the process of assurance •Accuracy: Securing a system to manage basic data including the August 2020 measures. number of employees which are subject to change due to source, Dong Sung Cho 1) ‌AA1000 – AccountAbility Principles 2018: One of the sustainability report assurance standard series established by the non-profit organization AccountAbility based in the UK, in order to gathering criteria, and disclosure condition Chairman audit corporate social responsibility and sustainability development, thus explaining a set of auditing principles. It was revised with the addition of the “Impact” principle to the existing •C omparability: Providing comparable benchmark data of public The Institute for Industrial Policy Studies AA1000APS (2008) in 2018. 2) ‌International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000: “Assurance Engagement Principle other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information” established by the corporations under the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, and Transport International Federation of Accountants (IFAC) or peers when presenting performance indicators 3) ‌The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) is a non-profit organization established in 1997, by the Coalition for Environmentally Responsible Economies (CERES) and the United Nations •Reliability: Disclosing the results of the Customer Satisfaction Survey, Environment Programme (UNEP), releasing a sustainability reporting framework in 2000 for multinational enterprises. Following the revised G4 version focused on supply chain, governance, ethics & integrity, anti-corruption, GHG emissions & energy disclosures, the GRI released the GRI Standards in 2016, a new guideline with modular structure to ensure more a major indicator of the performance of public institutions, in a systematic reporting proces transparent and accurate manner GRI, KORAIL Sustainability Report 2019-20 94 95 A p p e n d i x ISO 26000 Index Universal Standards Topic-specific Standards External External Disclosures Page Disclosures Page assurance assurance Organizational profile GRI 200 Economic topics 102-1 Name of the organization 17 GRI 201 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 89 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 17 GRI 203 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported 11-12 102-3 Location of headquarters 17 INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts 11-12 102-4 Location of operations 17 GRI 204 103 Management Approach 60 102-5 Ownership and legal form 17 PROCUREMENT PRACTICES 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers 61 102-6 Markets served 19-20 103 Management Approach 77 102-7 Scale of the organization 17 GRI 205 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 77 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 17-18 ANTI-CORRUPTION 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures 78 102-9 Supply chain 18 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 78 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain 18 GRI 206 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 67-72 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices N/A ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR 102-12 External initiatives 97-98 GRI 300 Environmental topics 102-13 Membership of associations 99 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 92 GRI 302 Strategy ENERGY 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization 92 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 5-6 103 Management Approach 67 Ethics and integrity 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 72 GRI 305 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 21-22 EMISSIONS 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 72 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 58, 78-80 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 72 Governance GRI 306 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination 92 102-18 Governance structure 75-76 EFFLUENTS AND WASTE 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 92 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees 75 GRI 308 103 Management Approach 67 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body 75 SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 69-70 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body 75 GRI 400 Social topics 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values, and strategy 76 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 55, 89 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body 76 GRI 401 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees 57 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental, and social impacts 76 EMPLOYMENT 401-3 Parental leave 57, 90 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes 81 103 Management Approach 26 102-33 Communicating critical concerns 76 403-1 Workers representation in formal joint management–worker health and safety committees 27 102-34 Nature and total number of critical concerns 76 GRI 403 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of Stakeholder engagement OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH 403-2 27 work-related fatalities AND SAFETY 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 82 403-3 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation 27 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 58, 79 403-4 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions 58 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 82 GRI 404 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs 56 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 45, 82-84 TRAINING AND EDUCATION 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 45, 82-84 GRI 405 DIVERSITY AND EQUAL 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 75 Reporting practice OPPORTUNITY 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 18 103 Management Approach 79 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 86 GRI 412 412-1 Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments 79 HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT 102-47 List of material topics 86 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures 79 102-48 Restatements of information About This Report GRI 413 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs 61-62 102-49 Changes in reporting About This Report LOCAL COMMUNITIES 103 Management Approach 26 102-50 Reporting period About This Report GRI 416 CUSTOMER HEALTH AND 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and service categories 12, 22, 26, 28, 30, 91 102-51 Date of most recent report About This Report SAFETY 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services N/A 102-52 Reporting cycle About This Report GRI 418 103 Management Approach 44 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report About This Report CUSTOMER PRIVACY 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data 30 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards About This Report GRI 419 102-55 GRI content index 95-96 SOCIOECONOMIC 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area N/A 102-56 External assurance 93-94 COMPLIANCE UN SDGs KORAIL Sustainability Report 2019-20 96 Joining and A p p e n d i x Implementation Status Supporting UNGC Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are a comprehensive action and global cooperation KORAIL has been complying with 10 principles in four main areas of UNGC since joining UN agenda established by the UN to mitigate and eliminate threats to sustainable development. Global Compact in May 2007. UNGC’s 10 principles regarding human rights, labor, environment It aims to combat polarization in the economy and society, intensified social inequality, and and anti-corruption stem from the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (1948), the United destruction of the global environment, and it consists of 17 goals and 169 detailed goals that the Nations Convention against Corruption (2003), and other declarations and treaties. The UN is international community should achieve by 2030. KORAIL actively supports the UN SDGs for recommending companies comply with the 10 universal principles. KORAIL is committed to sustainable development, and is committed to achieving the SDGs together in the process of systemically managing various issues related with human rights, labor, the environment and anticonducting business. corruption in the course of performing its business. Poverty Eradication Fighting against Poverty and Food Security •‌Rail House(Improving living •‌Operating a Love-Fund space for the underprivileged) •‌Happy Train •‌Public concessionary fare Healthy Life and Welfare Quality Education Promotion of Gender Equality and Women's Rights •‌Promoting flexible work system •‌Education and training •‌Recruitment and HR without •‌Creating a culture of work-family of employees discrimination balance •‌Designating Day of company •‌Implementing gender equality •‌Operating a reasonable welfare safety day system system •‌Expansion target system for female managers Clean water and sanitation Provision of Sustainable Energy Sustainable Economic Growth and Decent Jobs •‌Managing water pollutant •‌Introducing new and renewable •‌Open recruitment •‌Reusing wastewater treatment energy •‌Advanced labor-management facility water •‌Reducing greenhouse gases culture •‌Energy saving activities •‌Creating jobs in the private sector •‌Responding to the carbon •‌Creating and distributing economic Principles Report Page emission trading system value Human Rights Establishment of Infrastructure, Sustainable Resolution of Inequality Creation of Sustainable Cities and Residential Areas Principle 1 Companies should advocate and respect internationally declared human rights protection. Industrialization •‌Recruitment and HR without •‌Social contribution activities 78~79 Principle 2 Companies should do all they can not to be involved with human rights violations. •‌Safety first management discrimination in local communities •‌Enforcing socially equitable •‌Promoting local economy employment Labor Standards Principle 3 Companies should advocate the practical acknowledgment of freedom of association and collective bargaining rights, Principle 4 Companies should exclude all types of forced labor, 79 Principle 5 Companies should efficiently root out child labor Sustainable Consumption Prevention of the Impact of Climate Change Protection of the Terrestrial Ecosystem Principle 6 Companies should prohibit discrimination over employment and duties •‌Purchasing SME products •‌Establishing greenhouse gas •‌Managing sewage and •‌Purchasing eco-friendly products inventory wastewater Environment •‌Operating Greenhouse Gas •‌Protecting the ecosystem Energy Committee •‌Acquiring ‘low carbon certification’ Principle 7 Companies should advocate preventive approaches to environmental issues, for the carbon footprint of the Principle 8 Companies should take measures to improve environmental responsibilities, 67~71 environmental label Principle 9 Companies should promote the development and spread of eco-friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Realization of Peace and Justice Global Partnership •‌Ethical management system •‌Joining and supporting UNGC •‌Anti-corruption system and •‌UIC (International Railway Federation) regular member country activities Principle 10 Companies should oppose any types of corrupt acts including illegal gains and bribes. 76~77 education •‌OSJD (International Railway Convention regular member country activities •‌Personal information protection •‌Japan-Korea railroad exchange cooperation (Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport, JR Kyushu, and information security JR East Japan) Awards and KORAIL Sustainability Report 2019-20 98 Sustainability A p p e n d i x Memberships Reporting Bodies Status of Awards Year Details 주관 Green Product of the Year (ITX-Saemaeul) Green Purchasing Network Award for excellent institution for integrated public disclosure Ministry of Strategy and Finance CEO Excellence Award at the 19th Korea Brand Awards The Institute for Industrial Policy Studies Gold Prize in 2017 Bangkok International Intellectual Property Invention Innovation Technology National Research Council of Thailand Awarded safety together award at the Korea Safety Photo Award National Research Council of Thailand Gold Prize in 2017 Bangkok International Intellectual Property Invention, Innovation, and Technology National Research Council of Thailand Exhibition 2017 Best Institution for ‘Practical Training on Control System for Cyber Attack Response’ Korea Industrial Safety Association General Management Cyber Safety Center of Ministry of Trade, Industry and Special award for public sector cyber security contest Energy of Sustainability Minister prize in 2017 Republic of Korea Sharing Awards Ministry of Health and Welfare General Planning: Office of Public Relations and Cultural Affairs Special award for Korea Communication Awards (KORAIL Newsletter) Korea Business Communicators Association Gold Prize in International Business Awards IBA (International Business Awards) Consulting Body External Verification Body Grand Prize in National Land Transportation Education and Training Contest Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport Korea Standards Association The Institute for Industial Policy Studies Special award in CDP Climate Change Response and Carbon Management (4 times) CDP Sustainable Management Green Product of the Year (V-Train) Green Purchasing Network Reporting TFT 2018 Safety & Health UCC Grand Prize Korea Occupational Safety and Health Agency Presidential Award for the Best Example in the Government’s Contest of Excellent Cases for Innovation Ministry of Interior and Safety Economic Performance Social Performance Environmental Performance 2018 Prize of the Minister of Health and Welfare in the Part of ‘Suicide Prevention & Love Life’ at the •‌Passenger Buiness: Passenger Transport HQs •‌Strategic System: •‌Environmental Management: Ministry of Health and Welfare Planning and Coordination HQs Safety Administration HQs Ceremony of 2018 •Metropolitan Railway: Metro HQs Gold Medal at 2018 International Business Awards (KORAIL’s Internal Newsletter) for Two Consecutive •‌Governance: Planning and Coordination HQs •‌Energy: Safety Administration HQs International Business Awards Years •Logistics Business: Logistics HQs •‌Ethical Management: Office of Future Planning •‌Greenhouse Gas: Safety Administration HQs 2018 Grand Prize and Special Award at UCC Contest of 2018 Safety & Health Examples Ministry of Employment and Labor, CBS •‌Multi-Faceted Business: and Innovative Strategy Best Prize in Facility Safety Part at 2018 Smart Construction Technology & Safety Contest Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport Business Development HQs •‌Workplace Environment: •‌Safety Management: Safety Administration HQs Safety Administration HQs Minister Prize Awarded by the Government to a Company Respected by the Public Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy •‌Financial Performance: Office of Financial Management •‌Customer Satisfaction: Passenger Transport HQ •‌Green Purchasing: Safety Administration HQs Award in the Sustainability Part at 2018 ‘CEO Hall of Fame’ The Institute for Industrial Policy Studies Award Certificate from the Ministry of Employment and Labor for ‘Rationalizing Labor-Management •‌Information Protection: Office of Future Planning Ministry of Employment and Labor and Innovative Strategy Relations as a Public Corporation’ 2018 Prize awarded by the President to a Company Contributed in Hosting Pyeongchang Winter •‌Employees: Office of Human Resources Ministry of Culture, Sports and Tourism Olympic and Paralympic Management Appreciation plaque from the Head of Korea Social Enterprise Promotion Agency Korea Social Enterprise Promotion Agency •‌Education: Office of Human Resources and Korea Social Contribution Award (Grand Prize Organizing Management 2019 Grand Prize for Social Contribution (Awarded by the Education Minister) 2019 Committee) •‌Labor-Management Cooperation: 2019 Green Product of the Year (Honam Line-KTX) Green Purchasing Network Office of Human Resources Management 2020 Gold Prize in 2020 IF Design Award IF Design •‌Shared Growth: Office of Financial Management •‌Social Contributions: Office of Future Planning Status of Memberships and Innovative Strategy Home Abroad •Korean Standards Association •The Institute of Internal Auditors •Korea Integrated Logistics Association •UN Global Compact Korea •Korean Productivity Center •Korean Productivity Center •OSJD(International Railway Convention) •UIC (International Railway Federation) We, at KORAIL, extend our sincere thanks to everyone concerned for assisting us •UNGC(UN Global Compact) •The Korean Society for Railway •Korea Management Association •Railway Industry Committee •CCTT (Siberia Transit Coordination Council) in the compilation of this Sustainability Report.. • Korea Railway Electrification Technical Association
