VALUES WORTH SHARING Sustainability at LGT 2019 A look inside the Princely Collections: the illustrations in this publication depict studies of natural objects by Franz Anton von Scheidel. For more than 400 years, the Princes of Liechtenstein successful partnership with our clients: a long-term have been passionate art collectors. The Princely Collecfocus, skill and reliability. tions include key works of European art stretching over five centuries and are now among the world’s major Illustrations: Franz Anton von Scheidel, details from private art collections. The notion of promoting fine “Depictions of conchiliae in watercolor after Johann Carl arts for the general good enjoyed its greatest popuMegerle von Mühlfeld (1765–1840),” late 18th century. larity during the Baroque period. The House of Liechten© LIECHTENSTEIN. The Princely Collections, Vaduz–Vienna stein has pursued this ideal consistently down the generations. We make deliberate use of the works of art in the Princely Collections to accompany what we do. For us, they embody those values that form the basis for a www.liechtensteincollections.at Contents 5 We all have to do our part 6 Still much room for improvement 10 Sustainable investment opportunities 13 Transparency is key 14 Quantifying sustainability quality 15 Impact investing and philanthropy 16 “Seeing your portfolio through a new lens” 18 Sustainable operations 22 Long-term employee development 24 Committed employees 26 A win-win-win situation 28 Dialog for greater sustainability 30 Responsible corporate governance 31 Report profile 32 Key figures at a glance 34 Risk note/Disclaimer “In light of the major environmental and social problems, all organizations, but also all private individuals, should scrutinize their goals and behavior to date and adjust these in such a way that they contribute to a more environmentally sustainable and socially inclusive development of our world.” H.S.H. Prince Max von und zu Liechtenstein, CEO LGT 5 We all have to do our part Dear Client Our political and economic systems are no longer sustainable under the current modus operandi. The consequences clearly reflect this: economic challenges are growing, political and social polarization is increasing, and pollution is resulting in global warming, a rise in sea levels and the loss of biodiversity. It is high time that we integrate social and environmental aspects to a greater degree in our decision-making processes. And we all have to do our part: as private individuals, entrepreneurs and investors. At LGT, we want to consciously integrate social and environmental targets into our strategy. Our goal is to create longterm value for all of our stakeholders: our clients, shareholders, employees, suppliers and society as a whole. As a company, we align ourselves with the UN Principles for Responsible Investment and are committed to the principles of the UN Global Compact relating to human rights, labor standards, the environment and the fight against corruption. We provide transparency for our clients by assessing investments according to environmental, social and governance criteria and developing investment strategies that support the transformation to a more H.S.H. Prince Philipp von und zu Liechtenstein (left) and sustainable economy. We have also set ambitious targets for our H.S.H. Prince Max von und zu Liechtenstein company in terms of our operations and as an employer, which we aim to achieve by 2025. Our aspiration is to be one of the leading private banks when it comes to sustainability. In this report we show you how we intend to achieve this. H.S.H. Prince Philipp von und zu Liechtenstein Chairman LGT H.S.H. Prince Max von und zu Liechtenstein CEO LGT 6 Introduction Still much room for improvement Climate change and social imbalances are among the most But progress is being made – not least due to increasing pressing problems of our time. Resolving these problems pressure from the general public: in November 2019, the will require herculean efforts. But the dangers have finally European Parliament declared a climate emergency. One been recognized: in the face of increasing extreme weather month later, the European Commission presented its “European phenomena and the resulting natural disasters – such as heat Green Deal”, a self-imposed commitment to make Europe the waves, floods, uncontrollable forest fires, melting polar ice world’s first climate-neutral continent. Switzerland decided caps and rising sea levels – climate change can no longer be to reduce its net greenhouse gas emissions to zero by 2050. denied. With the 2015 Paris Agreement, the UN member Other countries are following suit and have pledged to decarstates committed to the goal of limiting global warming to less bonize by 2050. In 2016, China formulated its “Guidelines for than two degrees Celsius. In the same year, the UN adopted Establishing the Green Financial System”, which are a roadits Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). They link together map for the green transformation of the Chinese domestic the fight against poverty and the promotion of sustainable economy. development and are to be achieved by 2030. Action is also being taken in business and finance. One But setting goals is only a first step. It is the measures that important initiative, for example, is the Institutional Investors emerge from these goals that are crucial. So far, the efforts Group on Climate Change (IIGCC), a European body in which being made are not bearing fruit. Instead of decreasing, CO2 investors work together to protect the climate and promote emissions have continued to rise since the Paris Agreement a low-carbon future. The financial sector in particular has the came into force. And based on the measures that countries ability to make a big difference. As an intermediary between have announced so far, the earth will likely warm by three to investors and capital-seeking companies, countries and organifour degrees by 2050 instead of the envisioned 1.5 degrees zations, it can help channel investment capital into sustainable – with serious and as yet unforeseeable consequences for projects. In doing so, it makes an important contribution on humankind. the path to a more sustainable world. Launch Clause on of first responsible sustainable Establishment investing for Founding of investment LGT of Group investment LGT Venture bond and becomes Sustainability programs Philanthropy equity funds CO2 neutral Management 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 LGT Capital Installation First sustainLaunch of Partners beof first solar ability report Employee comes signatory thermal published Volunteering to UN PRI systems Program LGT Sustainability Strategy 7 Sustainable in all areas LGT also supports the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals, and actions have always been core characteristics of our and we strive to define and implement effective measures in all company. For over a decade now, we have been working areas of our organization. Long-term and sustainable thinking on making our company more sustainable. More information about the UN Sustainable Development Goals can be found at sustainabledevelopment.un.org With our Sustainability Strategy 2025, we aim to further intefor all of our stakeholders: our clients, owner, employees as grate sustainability into all areas of our business and across well as society and the environment. our entire product range. In doing so, we want to create value Seat on Board Participant of UN Global Expansion/ in UN Global Compact development Compact and Move to Network of exclusion partnership refurbished Switzerland/ policies: with Swiss Installation of Definition of Minergie Liechtenstein; controversial Climate first photovolsustainability Materiality building seat on PRI weapons and Foundation taic systems targets 2020 analysis Zurich Board coal 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Policy on Move to Partnership Introduction Launch of Launch of susexclusion of refurbished with Drink & of LGT Sustainability tainable portfolio controversial Minergie buildDonate Sustainability Strategy 2025 management weapons ing Geneva Rating mandate 8 LGT Sustainability Strategy The three pillars of LGT’s Sustainability Strategy 2025 Sustainable investing Sustainable business Sustainable thinking We want to be a leading provider of We consider sustainability aspects We want to be a thought leader sustainable investment solutions. in all our decisions. in sustainability. We want to optimize the contribution of We significantly reduce our environmental We want our employees to actively engage our investment solutions to the SDGs. footprint. in sustainability issues and will train them accordingly. We aim to substantially increase the share A minimum of ten percent of LGT Group of sustainable investment solutions in our dividends are allocated to philanthropic We join forces with governments, compaprivate clients’ portfolios. activities. nies, NGOs, etc. to optimize our contribution to the SDGs. We measure and report transparently on We want to be a top employer that offers the sustainability quality of our investment a good work environment. solutions. As part of our strategy, we have identified eight SDGs to which we can actively contribute: SDG 3, 5, 7, 8, 10, 12, 13 Sustainable Development Goals and 17. The 17 Sustainable Development Goals were adopted by 193 United Nations member states in September 2015. The SDGs During the 2019 reporting year, we focused in particular mark the first time that poverty reduction and sustainability have been linked together in this way. They aim to improve on SDG 7 (affordable and clean energy), as well as SDG 13 the situation of humans and the environment in many areas by (measures for climate protection). Various committees in the 2030: to achieve the SDGs, an estimated USD 5 to 7 trillion per individual regions developed initiatives that can help us year will be needed by 2030. achieve these goals. We also aim to follow the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) released in June 2017. 9 Shift away from investments in coal exceed five percent of their total revenues or if they produce A key measure in this context is LGT’s new coal policy, which more than one percent of the global annual quantity of coal was implemented at the end of 2019. We are convinced that used for energy generation. We will also exclude utilities with a a shift away from coal is urgently necessary in order to limit high carbon intensity. The policy will apply to the entire LGT global warming. Starting from the beginning of 2020, Group and pertains to LGT’s trading book, all LGT funds as companies involved in producing coal to generate power well as mandates managed by LGT. External asset managers will therefore be excluded from LGT’s investment universe who manage mandates for LGT will be encouraged to apply group-wide if their revenues from coal-related activities similar standards. Starting from the beginning of 2020, LGT will introduce a group-wide policy that excludes investments in companies involved in the production of coal to generate power. 10 Sustainable investing Sustainable investment opportunities Furthermore, the Group does not invest in companies involved in the manufacture or trade of controversial weapons such as nuclear weapons, landmines, cluster bombs, biological and chemical weapons, or white phosphorus and uranium munition. Also excluded from our investment universe are companies engaged in coal production for power generation and utilities with a high carbon intensity. We have also decided to exclude unconventional oil and gas production activities from our sustainable investment funds due to their severe climatic, environmental and social risks. Unconventional production comprises the extraction of oil and gas from tar/oil sands, shale oil, shale gas and Arctic drilling. In the area of conventional oil and gas production, we will limit our investments to companies that are firmly committed to the energy transition, generate only a small amount of revenues Andrea Ferch, Lukas Frey, Baiyun Chen and Jürg Bless (from left to right) from oil and gas production, and have a significant proportion are responsible for LGT’s sustainable portfolio management mandates. of their energy reserves in natural gas. At LGT, we can make a significant contribution to achieving the SDGs above all by aligning our core business – private banking and asset management – in a way that is more sustainable. On the one hand, we can do this by helping our clients make their investment portfolios more sustainable. And on the other hand, this can be achieved by investing the money entrusted to us by private and institutional investors as sustainably as possible. Our goal is to become a leading provider of sustainable investment solutions by 2025. Exclusion of non-sustainable investments We began to combine good financial returns with positive environmental and social objectives in our investment programs and portfolio management early on. Since 2003, for example, a clause on responsible investing has been a permanent feature of many LGT investment programs. This enables us to systematically exclude investments with significant environmental, social and governance (ESG) risks. LGT has defined a number of group-wide exclusion criteria for its investments. E.g. it does not invest in companies involved in the manufacture and trade of controversial weapons such as landmines. 11 Sustainability funds Sustainable Model Portfolio Service In 2009, we launched our sustainable equity and bond In the UK, financial advisor clients of LGT Vestra have had access funds. When making investment decisions for these funds, to the Sustainable Model Portfolio Service, an investment soluwe exclude companies with controversial activities (such as tion based on the philosophy of sustainable economic growth, pornography, gambling, weapons, nuclear power production, since 2018. For this solution, LGT Vestra systematically excludes tobacco, child labor). For these funds, we select securities ESG risks and invests in sustainability-oriented companies – issued by companies, organizations and countries that stand companies that have implemented a high level of sustainability out in terms of environmental and social criteria and their in their operations and that have a positive impact through corporate governance, and that generate long-term finantheir business. For the Sustainable Model Portfolio Service, LGT cial value. Our range of sustainable equity funds comprises Vestra invests in specialized, actively managed collective funds actively managed equity portfolios in various currencies across various asset classes, regions and sectors. that invest primarily in companies that operate globally. Our sustainable bond funds are also available in various currencies, are actively managed and invest globally in a broadly diversified range of money market instruments and bonds issued by the private and public sectors. Sustainable wealth management Since 2019, LGT in Liechtenstein, Switzerland and Austria has also Environmental offered actively managed portfolio management solutions with a focus on sustainability. Clients can choose from three different ESG risk-reward profiles that are available in Swiss francs, euro and US dollars. When selecting investments, the portfolio managers pursue a best-in-class approach and focus on securities with a four or five-star LGT Sustainability Rating (see page 13). Socially or environmentally controversial companies and countries are excluded. Governance When selecting equities, the portfolio managers also make sure that the companies have the lowest possible environmental footSocial print compared to their competitors – for example, low waste generation or low water consumption. ESG is the abbreviation for environmental social and (corporate) governance. The term has established itself internationally as a way of expressing whether and how companies, countries and organizations take environmental and social aspects as well as corporate governance into account in their decisions. Many investors, such as the members of the Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) initiative, integrate ESG criteria into their analyses. 13 Transparency is key In recent years, a sharp rise has been seen in the share of one to five stars, investors see at a glance how sustainably sustainable investments. According to the “2018 Global invested they are. In 2018, the LGT Sustainability Rating was Sustainable Investment Review” published by the Global also integrated into the LGT SmartBanking online platform Sustainable Investment Alliance, sustainable assets in the five in Europe. major markets reached a volume of USD 30.7 trillion, which corresponds to an increase of 34 percent within two years. Events and meetings However, it is still mainly professional investors who are The fact that awareness of sustainable investing is increasing increasing their share of sustainable investments. But private is also reflected in the active interest shown by our clients. During investors are following suit: more and more people want to the reporting year, we were able to shine the spotlight on sustainmake a contribution to sustainable development through able investing at various events and meetings and provide our their investments. clients with comprehensive information on the subject. The events included information events for private banking clients in LGT Sustainability Rating Switzerland and Liechtenstein as well as investment conferences One reason for the restraint so far is that it remains difficult in Hong Kong and Singapore with over 300 participants. for private investors to gauge how “green” an investment really is. Transparency is therefore needed to help private Sustainable investment ideas investors make their portfolio more socially or environmenWe also keep our relationship managers up to date on sustaintally friendly. LGT introduced the LGT Sustainability Rating to ability matters so they can provide their clients with knowlthis end in 2017. This rating shows clients the sustainability edgeable advice in this area. LGT’s investment specialists reguquality of both their individual equities, bonds and funds and larly provide relationship managers with concrete sustainable their overall portfolio. With the help of a scale ranging from investment ideas for their clients. Inclusion of financial criteria and sustainability factors with the LGT Sustainability Rating Focus on financial and Financial Investor fundamental data of Company or aspects companies and countries country Investment Investment decision Detailed analysis of the environmental and social Nonimpact of companies financial and countries aspects 14 Sustainable investing Quantifying sustainability quality In 2009, when we launched our sustainable equity and bond Promoting sustainable development through investments funds, the concept of sustainability was not yet widespread Since 2019, LGT Capital Partners has also been able to use the in the financial industry. Obtaining reliable data for ESG ESG Cockpit to determine and illustrate the influence of compaanalyses – i.e. the in-depth analysis of sustainability criteria – nies on the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). thus proved to be a challenge. LGT Capital Partners, our asset management arm, therefore developed a proprietary analysis The products and services of companies included in the ESG tool – the LGT ESG Cockpit – to this end. Cockpit are divided into more than 300 categories. For the purposes of measurement, the contribution of the corresponding Comprehensive analyses with the ESG Cockpit product and service categories to the respective SDGs is evalThe ESG Cockpit assesses the sustainability quality of compauated using a numerical score. For example, the production nies and countries based on ESG criteria. It uses a wide range of renewable energies is given the maximum possible positive of sustainability data and indicators supplied by specialist score of +10 in its contribution to climate protection (SDG 13), providers such as Refinitiv and Inrate. The Cockpit makes while power generation from coal is given the lowest score of it possible to conduct tailored assessments according to a -10. For a company, the contributions of all relevant categories broad range of requirements. For example, when evaluating are then weighted per SDG and added up together with their companies, the set of indicators used and their weighting respective share of revenues. This provides an overall footprint is adjusted to the sector in which the company operates. of all contributions to the SDGs that a company achieves with This is important because, for example, CO2 emissions are the products and services it offers. an important indicator for utilities, but play a rather minor role for financial services companies. The ESG Cockpit also The aggregation of this data for an entire portfolio enables gathers data for environmental performance in areas such as investors to see the impact of their overall portfolio on the greenhouse gas emissions. Since these figures are availSustainable Development Goals. able for both individual investments and for entire portfolios, we are able to calculate the CO2 quality of our investment portfolios. LGT uses the ESG Cockpit to analyze over LGT Capital Partners has been publishing an ESG Report since 6500 companies and around 200 countries. Since its launch 2013. The report contains the results of our annual surveys of in 2009, the ESG Cockpit and its rating method have been our hedge fund, long-only and private equity managers on their further developed on an ongoing basis. For example, data activities in the areas of environment, social and corporate governance. With this survey, we aim to illustrate to our investors the on companies’ controversial activities have been included extent to which managers integrate ESG factors into their investin the rating since 2018. To do this, we draw on reports from ment processes, ownership guidelines and reporting practices. more than 80 000 sources such as the media and other publicly Further information accessible information in more than 20 languages. We currently lgtcp.com/en/news-and-publications/publications manage almost CHF 9 billion in sustainable funds and mandates. 15 Impact investing and philanthropy LGT Lightstone focuses on impact investing, a fairly new form of sustainable investing that has been gaining momentum globally for several years now. It consists of investing in companies that not only generate profits, but also make a quantifiable contribution to sustainable development. These are often start-ups, e.g. in the IT, medical or biotech sectors, that are developing innovative technological solutions and business ideas for social or environmental problems. But good ideas aren’t enough: these start-ups need non-risk averse investors such as LGT Lightstone that finance their development costs and support them in their growth, not only with money, but also with entrepreneurial know-how and their network. LGT Lightstone focuses on investments in companies in Europe, Asia, Latin America and Africa. Through a multi-stage and very rigorous investment process, potential investments are examined not only in terms of their economic viability, but also Last Mile Health, an LGT VP portfolio organization, provides medical care to people in remote villages in Liberia. key factors such as demographic developments in the target market, the role of capital and the company’s ability to have a In addition to supporting its portfolio organizations financially, sustainable, quantifiable positive impact. LGT Lightstone invests LGT VP provides them with operational expertise and access along the entire financing spectrum (from early stage to later to networks. The LGT Impact Fellowship Program also aims to stage). strengthen the organizational capacity of the portfolio organizations. LGT Impact Fellows are proven experts with in-depth LGT Venture Philanthropy experience in their area of expertise. The fellows work with LGT Venture Philanthropy (LGT VP), which was founded by the local portfolio organizations or LGT VP teams for a period H.S.H. Prince Max von und zu Liechtenstein in 2007, focuses of one year. exclusively on the financial promotion of non-profit-oriented organizations with significant growth potential and a high Since 2007, LGT VP has supported more than 50 organizasocial or environmental impact. This donations-financed tions, dispatched 159 Fellows and, as at the end of 2019, had support does not target a financial return. LGT VP’s portfolio invested or donated a total of USD 98.1 million. It currently organizations are primarily active in the areas of education, actively supports 17 organizations. In 2018, LGT VP reached health, protection of the environment and nature conservaaround 5.7 million disadvantaged people through its global tion. In terms of regions, LGT VP focuses on Africa and India. portfolio. Background “Seeing your portfolio through a new lens” Phoebe Stone, Head of Sustainable Investing at LGT Vestra, wants to make her clients proud of their investments. As the devastating effects of climate change become more there was no need to compromise on financial return or apparent and with information on its causes and conserisk. Stone adds: “My goal was to embark on a major quences more readily available than ever before, people education exercise around the subject of sustainable all around the world are asking themselves what they can investing for both private clients and for financial advisors. do to help protect our environment. The majority of us are I believed that financial advisors should and could start to aware that using less electricity, recycling waste or eating have the confidence to talk to their clients not just about less meat can contribute to resolving environmental and the financial objectives for their portfolio, but also about social issues. But what a smaller, ever increasing number of the positive impact of their investments.” people is realizing is that there is a different, less obvious, yet more impactful way of having a positive environmental Informing clients about sustainable investing often completely and social impact: investing sustainably. reframes the way clients think about their wealth. It helps to demystify the investment management industry and Phoebe Stone launched and leads LGT Vestra’s Sustainallows clients to build a more engaged and positive relaable Model Portfolio Service in London. “Five years ago, tionship with their assets. Stone observes: “A portfolio very few clients were conscious of the potential that lies dormant within their investment decisions,” she remembers. However, they were starting to look for opportunities to generate more than just a financial return with their money. “They were engaged with the issues that our planet was – and still is – facing and thinking about the type of world they wanted to leave behind,” Stone explains. Financial advisors were increasingly looking to offer ways for their clients to invest in socially and environmentally impactful companies. However, sustainable portfolio offerings were still rare, but Stone believed that there was likely much more untapped demand for sustainable portfolios lying beneath the surface. More than financial objectives Stone believed that interest could rise dramatically if she could help make two things happen: firstly, encourage conversations with clients about the possibility that their portfolios could contribute from a social and environmental perspective, and secondly, reassure them that LGT Vestra’s headquarters in the heart of London Phoebe Stone launched and is responsible for the Sustainable Model Portfolio Service at LGT Vestra. She wants to give financial advisors the confidence to talk to their clients not only about their financial goals, but also the positive impact of their investments. can be transformed from something that is effectively healthcare and societal well-being, education and training, handed over to a professional to generate a specific finanresources and the circular economy and climate and envicial outcome into a collection of investments that a client ronmental action. The dedicated sustainable research team starts to understand the impact of and feels proud to be selects funds by applying a Morningstar product involvement investing in.” screen as well as conducting additional comprehensive quantitative and qualitative analysis. The analysis process Clearly defined thresholds must be extremely robust to ensure high levels of sustainBut what exactly does sustainable investing mean? Stone ability throughout. Many of the funds held in the portfolios hears that question very often. Building the investment are aligned by external managers with the UN Sustainable and fund selection process was a complex task as sustainDevelopment Goals and look to avoid activities connected ability can be interpreted in a variety of ways. “It’s made to, among others, controversial weapons, thermal coal trickier by the fact that there is no generally accepted and tobacco. terminology. SRI (socially responsible investing), ESG (environmental, social, governance), sustainability investing, Once the portfolios had been launched, the demand for impact investing, and values-based investing are often sustainable investment solutions surpassed LGT Vestra’s used interchangeably,” she explains. Before carving out expectations. Stone and her team have seen the interest the investment process, Stone therefore had to define the and excitement around sustainable investing across the term “sustainability” and capture the multiple views from UK gather momentum. This has translated into strong senior investment professionals from across the business inflows and high levels of engagement from clients about to ensure a consistent understanding of the approach. sustainability. She concludes: “What has been fantastic is the response we have had – both from advisors who are Today, each of the funds selected for LGT Vestra’s Sustaindelighted to have an impactful proposition to talk to clients able Model Portfolios align with one of the sustainable about, and from clients who now see their investment pillars that Stone’s team has developed and defined: portfolio through a new lens.” 18 Sustainable business Sustainable operations In addition to its investment-related efforts, LGT has for many Every location develops its own roadmap to determine which years been implementing prudent environmental and operations specific measures can be implemented locally in order to management and has already reached a number of milestones jointly achieve the Group’s targets. Other measures are defined in this area. With the Sustainability Strategy 2025, ambitious and implemented at Group level. group-wide targets have been set in the areas of mobility, facility management, procurement, digitalization, energy consumption and CO2 emissions. Group-wide operational sustainability targets by 2025 -20% CO2 emissions -30% Energy consumption 2025 100% Renewable energies -30% Paper consumption Per fulltime-time equivalents (FTE), reductions by 2025 compared to 2017 19 CO2 compensation Collaboration with suppliers We aim to reduce our CO2 emissions to the greatest extent LGT also expects its suppliers to operate sustainably. All suppliers possible. Since 2010, we have been offsetting unavoidable emismust sign the LGT Supplier Code of Conduct, which is an intesions by purchasing CO2 certificates. Since 2019, we have been gral part of their contract, and thus commit to adhering to supporting a wind power project in Rajasthan, India, consisting important standards and conventions. The code focuses on of 15 wind turbines with a capacity of 1.5 MW each. Around ethics (integrity, fair competition), health and safety (occupa55 000 people receive clean energy from these turbines, thus tional safety), the environment (protection of the environment, enabling them to reduce their dependence on fossil fuels. The consumption of resources) and management (risk management, project creates new local employment opportunities and helps documentation). We also regularly audit our suppliers with to reduce poverty in the region. regard to sustainability and thus verify that they comply with the standards we expect from them. Mobility management In order to reduce CO2 emissions arising from private transport, we actively encourage our employees to use public transportation through measures such as: ■ financial incentives for using alternative mobility solutions in Switzerland and Liechtenstein ■ free safety checks for bicycles in Liechtenstein ■ charging stations for electric cars – for clients and employees in Switzerland and Liechtenstein ■ initiatives like Bike to Work The Swiss Climate Foundation Since 2012, LGT has been a partner of the Swiss Climate Foundation, to which it donates its net refunds from the CO2 tax. The Climate Foundation promotes innovation and energy efficiency projects at small and medium-sized enterprises that contribute to climate protection in Switzerland and Liechtenstein. reCIRCLE is a project idea supported by the Swiss Climate Foundation. The reCIRCLE concept was also implemented at LGT in Since its establishment in 2008, the foundation has invested Liechtenstein: instead of disposable plastic containers, the staff CHF 24 million in more than 1500 SMEs in Switzerland and restaurant offers reusable takeaway boxes in exchange for a Liechtenstein. In 2019 alone, the foundation invested CHF 4.2 CHF 10 deposit. After the food has been eaten, the box can million in climate protection projects. either be returned or reused for the next meal. 20 Sustainable business Sustainable facility management ship in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) or equivalent LGT’s facility management is also geared towards sustainstandards. The maintenance of existing buildings is continuability. All new buildings are built in accordance with Leaderously optimized in terms of energy efficiency. In Vaduz, a temporary building is currently being constructed that Starting in 2021, LGT will be expanding its headquarters in Vaduz. will enable us to quickly create the space that is urgently needed at During the project selection process, particular emphasis was our headquarters. The building is being built in line with the Minergieplaced on sustainability. The new building is to achieve the A-P-ECO standard and therefore meets the highest standards in Minergie-P-ECO standard and LEED Gold certification. terms of sustainable energy consumption and construction. In 2019, LGT was awarded the Stiftung Natur & Wirtschaft label Starting from the beginning of 2020, LGT’s electricity needs in for the exemplary design and integration of nature into the comAustria will be exclusively covered by renewable energies. pany grounds in Bendern (FL). Grounds designed in a way that integrates nature support indigenous biodiversity and thus make an important contribution to plant species diversity. 22 Sustainable business Long-term employee development The 18-month Graduate Program offers master’s graduates an exciting start in the world of banking and finance. After successful completion, participants in the program during the year under review will assume roles, among others, as relationship managers, project managers, marketing managers, trading officers and HR specialists at LGT. Happy and healthy employees are the most important asset of very popular. In 2019, 295 employees attended 13 courses at any company. We strive to be a top employer for our staff and the academy (2018: 271 employees, twelve courses). to offer a good work environment. The fact that we succeed in this is substantiated by the various accolades we have Fostering talent received from renowned certification institutes in recent years. Fostering the development of junior staff is also something For example, LGT Bank Switzerland ranked third last year in we attach great importance to. We offer young people of the “Great Place to Work 2019” rating. different ages and education levels a hands-on introduction to professional life, for example through an apprenticeship in IT Basic and further training or a commercial apprenticeship, an internship or our Graduate Ongoing employee development is an important success Program for master’s degree graduates. factor in being a top employer. During the year under review, LGT invested over CHF 7 million in basic and further training We also promote young talents outside of the company. initiatives. This corresponds to CHF 2084 per employee in Through the LGT University Scholarship, we award two schol2019. In-house further training and external courses cover arships every year to students pursuing a master’s degree in both personal and professional development. The programs finance at the University of Liechtenstein. And since 2019, we offered by the LGT Academy at Schloss Freudenfels, which have been supporting the Energy and Climate Workshop in focus primarily on participants’ personal development, are cooperation with myclimate, an educational project in Liech23 tenstein that aims to sensitize and help apprentices engage in sustainability and climate protection. Health management The LGT Vitality health program consists of numerous initiatives and offerings to strengthen the physical well-being of LGT employees. The initiative focuses on attitude, nutrition, movement and recovery. Employees can, for example, enjoy free organic fruit, benefit from many discounts at nearby sports facilities and attend presentations where they receive information on health and personality-related matters. In Liechtenstein, the LGT Sportclub offers a series of sporting activities such as sports weekends, cross-country skiing courses, ski trips, group participation in running events and a course to prepare for the LGT Alpine Marathon. Diversity and equal opportunities LGT adheres to a strict system of values as well as ethical and professional standards, which are set out in the LGT Code of LGT Switzerland’s designation as a “Great Place to Work” was met with much enthusiasm. Conduct. We offer equal opportunities for employment and promotion irrespective of gender, age, religion, nationality, ethnic background, sexual orientation, marital and family status, physical abilities or other characteristics. In 2019, people from over 69 nations worked at LGT. Competence and experience are important to us, which is why we deliberately hire people over 50. In 2019, this group accounted for 6.3 percent of new hires. We also offer flexible retirement. We are convinced that a diverse workforce makes our company more successful. We therefore initiated a group-wide diversity strategy in 2019 containing specific goals, which will make LGT even more diverse in the future. In 2019, a pilot project was launched to integrate people on the autism spectrum. Two disabled IT consultants from the company auticon are currently working in various project teams in the areas of training and test automation. This cooperation will continue in 2020. 24 Sustainable business Committed employees Program participants also completed a volunteering week at a social organization of their choice. In addition to volunteering opportunities for which no expert knowledge is required, we would like to become more involved in skills-based volunteering, i.e. social programs to which employees bring their expertise. The EVP strategy was broadened accordingly in 2019 and a pilot project will be launched in 2020. Volunteering in the UK In the UK, LGT Vestra organized a big soup market for the second As part of the Graduate Program, David Becker (right) completed his Social consecutive year. Twenty of the best London restaurants donated Week at Velafrica, a non-profit organization that fixes discarded bicycles and sends them to Africa. over 800 liters of soup, which was sold in Paternoster Square by employees. The proceeds totaling over GBP 15 000 were donated Assuming responsibility for society and the environment is an to Centrepoint, an organization that supports homeless people in important part of our corporate culture. Many of our employees London. LGT Vestra also held dodgeball competitions in London, at our various locations who identify with our values embody Jersey and Bristol, raising over GBP 20 000 for The Prince’s Trust, this culture by volunteering in a number of different areas. which helps young people who are experiencing difficulties. And over 20 employees of LGT Vestra were involved in the Skills Employee Volunteering Program Builder program that prepares young people for the challenges of The Employee Volunteering Program (EVP) offers LGT employees entering the workforce. concrete volunteering opportunities. The initiatives are usually organized locally and benefit less privileged people or the Support in Asia environment. In Switzerland and Liechtenstein, for example, LGT Bank Hong Kong has been the main sponsor of the Tung computer courses were conducted for people with disabilities, Wah Group Hospital Charity Challenge Race, which raises funds employees lent a hand at a barbeque for homeless people, for the redevelopment of the biggest hospital in Hong Kong, collected garbage from streets and pathways, helped protect since its launch. Of the over 1000 participants in 2019, 95 were forest ecosystems through mountain forest projects, removed LGT employees. LGT Bank Singapore has been a partner invasive plants and repaired discarded bicycles that were then of AWWA (Asian Women’s Welfare Association) for many sent to Africa. As part of their training, the eleven Graduate years. AWWA helps families in need who for various reasons 25 Volunteering in Austria In Austria, LGT continued to support Teach for Austria, which advocates equal opportunities in the education system and supports children and young people from low-income and educationally disadvantaged families. As part of this support, Meinhard Platzer, Co-CEO LGT Bank Österreich, visited a school class and provided the students with information about the financial sector and a career in banking. In addition to this, LGT employees in Salzburg cooked a meal for 50 homeless people at Caritas Salzburg’s Haus Franziskus. Drink tap water, donate drinking water LGT has been working with Drink & Donate since 2016. This charitable organization supports water projects around the world. Every year, we donate CHF 130 000 to a water project; LGT employees have a say in which projects will be supported. In 2019, the donation went to a drinking water purification project in hospitals and schools in Tanzania. Because drinking tap water helps protect the environment, LGT employees are encouraged to forego drinking water in plastic bottles and instead drink tap water. All employees receive a reusable water bottle. Such bottles are also utilized in client areas. LGT Vestra’s second big soup market in London raised GBP 15 000 for Centrepoint, an organization that helps homeless people. are dealing with financial or other challenges. In 2019, LGT in Singapore once again organized a charity Christmas concert featuring the LGT Young Soloists. LGT employees also accompanied families on an excursion and organized an art jam session for children and young people. Background With the help of the minimally invasive operating system, surgeons will be able to operate more precisely and efficiently in the future – at a lower cost. A win-win-win situation Greater precision, less expensive and more flexible: CMR Surgical’s robotic system for minimally invasive surgery is a milestone in the history of medicine. LGT is invested in the company. There is something surreal about the scene: there is no the surgeon appears relaxed and at the same time highly hustle and bustle in the test operating room, no surgeons concentrated. He is practicing for an operation using a or assistants surround the patient. Nobody asks for instrunew technology. ments or gives instructions. Instead, there is silence. Only the whirring of three robotic arms and a camera arm On the verge of a breakthrough can be heard. They are positioned around the operating “We wanted to develop a system for minimally invasive table and move smoothly and evenly. Next to the table, surgery that was versatile, portable and cost-effective,” a surgeon sits in front of a box that looks like an overexplains Mark Slack, Chief Medical Officer CMR Surgical. sized game console. Despite having worked for hours, Founded in 2014, the company has developed the Versius robotic surgical system – and most recently made headcompared to open surgeries, patients are also required lines in February when the UK’s second largest health to stay in hospital for much less time – an advantage for authority decided to approve the first human surgeries both patients and the hospital. using the new system. The Western General Hospital in Edinburgh was the first hospital in Europe to use Versius as Doctors also benefit from this new support. Thanks to the part of daily operations. Other hospitals have followed suit, three independent arms and a camera arm, the surgeon can imitate his or her own movements with the machine using 3D visualization and a unique instrument control system. “The Versius system has disruptive On the one hand, this makes operations more precise, potential.” and on the other hand, long surgeries become less taxing Per Vegard Nerseth, CEO CMR Surgical thanks to the ergonomic working position, which in turn reduces stress and fatigue for the surgeon in charge. and the Australian health authorities recently also gave the LGT is convinced of important role of technology technology the green light. The new technology is not only an advantage for patients, This means that Versius has successfully entered the doctors and hospitals, but also for investors. As part of its market – and demand is expected to increase significantly. impact investing program, LGT recognized the potential of According to the calculations of global market research the technology early on and has been on board with the provider Accuray Research, global annual sales for innovative company since the first round of institutional robot-assisted minimally invasive surgery could rise from financing. CMR has now completed three financing rounds. the current level of around USD 4 billion to an estimated The last was the largest private financing round in the EuroUSD 20 billion by 2025. pean medical sector. CMR Surgical currently employs over 400 people on four continents. Use of robotics nothing new per se Minimally invasive surgery is also known as keyhole surgery. Per Vegard Nerseth, CEO CMR Surgical, has a clear explaThese two terms are used to describe surgical procedures nation for the company’s financing success: “The Versius with the smallest possible damage to tissue. This form of system has disruptive potential.” If the system achieves a surgery has a number of advantages over open surgery, breakthrough, it will be able to replace many open surgeries. including the reduction of infection rates and pain and The current rules in surgery would be rewritten – it’s a scarring. The use of robotics in keyhole surgery is not new. win-win-win situation for patients, clinics and doctors, However, the solutions to date have been very expensive but also for the investors involved. and inflexible. The Versius system is expected to help the technology achieve a widespread breakthrough. This is not only due to its lower price, but above all to the system’s flexibility: the arms are mounted on a single trolley and can be individually repositioned. This makes it easier to move the device between operating rooms. Impact investing Impact investing refers to investments that not only have Beneficial for everyone involved a positive impact on people and the environment, but also Thanks to its modular design and the short amount of generate financial returns. Money is invested in companies that are profit-oriented, but at the same time solve global time required to set up the system, CMR Surgical estimates problems and achieve a quantifiable social and environmental that a Versius system can perform around 350 minimally impact. Impact investments can be made through corresponinvasive surgeries per year. This makes the technology ding bonds or funds, individual equities or through private extremely efficient. And since post-operative bed days equity and venture capital investments. for minimally invasive surgeries are significantly lower 28 Sustainable thinking Dialog for greater sustainability We are convinced that the only way to tackle problems such ■ founding member and member of various working groups as climate change, social imbalances and political polarizawithin the Swiss Sustainable Finance (SSF) association tion is to address them collectively. LGT therefore engages in ■ member of the Sustainable Finance Working Group of the a regular dialog with a broad range of stakeholders – first and European Banking Federation foremost with our clients, our owner and our employees. But ■ member of an expert group of the Liechtenstein Bankers we also actively discuss sustainability with the authorities and Association our suppliers, academia and representatives of civil society. ■ founding donor of the Lebenswertes Liechtenstein foundation Further to this, we seek to advance sustainability through ■ participant in the UN Global Compact collaboration with various organizations, including as a: ■ member of the Board of the UN Global Compact Network ■ member of the Board of the Principles for Responsible Switzerland & Liechtenstein Investment Since 2012, LGT has been committed to the UN Global Compact corporate responsibility initiative and its principles in the areas of human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption. Through our sustainability report, we communicate annually on the progress we have made in implementing the Ten Principles. LGT is committed to numerous international associations and organizations. Our most important memberships and partnerships are: 29 Think Tank We also foster an active dialog within LGT. Our purposeful Think Tank regularly discusses current trends and developments. It consists of in-house experts and works on a project basis with external specialists and university representatives. It supports the LGT Sustainability Board in opinion-forming, provides expertise to the various sustainability committees and also helps in decision-making. In 2019, representatives of the Think Tank drafted a paper on climate change and developed the new coal policy. Fighting slavery The UN has set itself the goal of ending slavery by 2030 (one of the Agenda 2030 goals). The Principality of Liechtenstein wants to play an active role in this and has therefore set up a commission to combat modern slavery and human trafficking – the Liechtenstein Initiative – in which LGT is also represented. For one year, members of the governments of Liechtenstein, the Netherlands and Australia, as well as representatives of Olivier de Perregaux, CFO LGT, believes the recommendations of the Liechtenstein Initiative provide important support for banks, regulators and the a wide range of authorities and companies, discussed the authorities in the fight against slavery. opportunities that exist in this area for the financial sector. The result, which was presented to the UN in September 2019, is the “Blueprint for Mobilizing Finance Against Slavery and LGT also supports the fight against slavery in its core business. Trafficking”. It defines five main objectives and, based on The issue is already incorporated into the compliance guidethese, concrete measures for action. The goals include taking lines. In addition, we are working on building out our processes into account anti-slavery laws in compliance, creating transin the area of “Know your customer” (KYC) and for adherence parency (e.g. in supply chains), using leverage (e.g. in lending), to anti-money laundering laws with relevant data. With the actively supporting victims (e.g. in restoring their creditworthihelp of broader analyses, we can also actively influence capital ness) and using technological innovations. flows in Asset Management. 30 Governance Responsible corporate governance Responsible corporate governance is an indispensable prereqtion Board. In this way, we ensure that sustainability is treated uisite for maintaining and strengthening the trust of clients as a priority at all management levels and is incorporated into and employees, but also of our owner and other stakeholders. our business activities. LGT is managed in accordance with the principles of the separation of powers (Foundation Board, Group Executive LGT Group’s entire senior management and various business Committee, Executive Boards of the companies) and checks areas are represented on the Sustainability Board, which is and balances. We support the fight against white-collar chaired by H.S.H. Prince Max von und zu Liechtenstein, CEO crime, money laundering, corruption, tax abuse and terrorism LGT. The Board sets the strategic direction and guiding principles financing and have implemented extensive internal control for sustainability. Information about the progress made against and monitoring processes for this purpose. the objectives is published regularly. The issue of sustainability is regularly on the agenda at meetings of the Executive Boards, Board of Directors and FoundaClear governance structure thanks to broad-based LGT Sustainability Board Foundation Board Sustainability Board Chair Think Deputy Chair Tank Members Sust. Committee Sust. Committee Sust. Committee Sust. Committee Sust. Committee Private Banking Asset Management Impact/Philanthropy Operations Human Resources Marketing & Communications Facts and figures 31 Report profile From 2012 until 2019, the LGT Sustainability Report was published every other year. Since 2019, it is published annually. This report, the fifth of its kind, documents the sustainability performance for the 2019 financial year and, unless stated otherwise, relates to LGT Group. Each financial year begins on 1 January and ends on 31 De­­­cember. The structure of this report is based on the internationally recognized guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). The key performance indicators listed in the report were mainly collected from data available for the whole Group. Location-specific key performance indicators, in particular environmental data, were prepared by the local contacts for the relevant departments. Comparative values from the previous periods exist for most of the data. The key performance indicators are based on information about LGT’s locations in Basel, Bendern, Geneva, Hong Kong, Due to the improved data situation, slight adjustments were London, Lugano, Pfäffikon, Singapore, Vienna, Vaduz and made to energy/material consumption and CO2 emissions for Zurich. Not all information is available for all locations. 2018. For 2019, certain assumptions were made that will be For this reason, the missing data for the various indicators corrected retrospectively with the effective figures. In our were extrapolated based on the information actually availflight data, we have differentiated between business and able. Specifically, data were available in the various areas to economy flights since 2017. the following degrees: water 64 percent, heating and cooling energy 53 percent, waste 67 percent, electricity 78 percent, The report can be downloaded from www.lgt.com as a PDF flight data 91 percent, paper 90 percent. file. The guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative can be downloaded from www.globalreporting.org The VfU’s (German association Verein für Umweltmanagement und Nachhaltigkeit in Finanzinstituten e.V.) standard for This report contains forward-looking statements based on environmental reporting of 6 January 2020, forms the basis for expectations and assumptions. Various factors may cause the calculation of emission values for the 2019 reporting year. the actual results to deviate from the estimates given here. 32 Facts and figures Key figures at a glance 2019 2018 2017 Financial indicators Assets under administration CHF m 227 892 198 243 201 782 Net new assets CHF m 13 856 6 757 35 985 of which net new money CHF m 13 856 6 757 17 684 of which through acquisition CHF m 0 0 18 301 Total operating income CHF m 1 818 1 676 1 537 Group profit CHF m 308 314 283 Appropriation of Foundation earnings and dividends CHF m -145 1 -125 -150 Group equity capital CHF m 4 619 4 112 4 113 Total assets CHF m 49 438 43 444 41 893 Ratios Tier 1 % 19.9 17.6 18.8 Cost/income ratio % 74.1 74.0 73.8 Liquidity coverage ratio % 218.3 203.3 237.7 Ratings2 Moody’s Aa2 Aa2 Aa2 Standard & Poor’s A+ A+ A+ Employees Number of employees (full-time equivalents) 3 532.9 3 282.8 3 069.4 Proportion of women in the total workforce % 42.3 42.5 42.8 Proportion of female employees % 46.8 47.2 47.8 Proportion of women in middle management % 22.0 21.2 20.1 Proportion of women in senior management % 15.4 15.4 16.4 Proportion of women on Executive Board % 7.6 6.1 5.8 Number of part-time employees 419 396 373 Part-time employees, female % 71.1 72.7 73.5 Part-time employees, male % 28.9 27.3 26.5 Number of apprentices and bank entries at high school graduate level3 32 30 32 Turnover rate % 6.1 7.9 5.4 Number of new hires 492 489 777 Female % 45.9 45.6 54.1 Male % 54.1 54.4 45.9 Number of resignations 278 310 239 Female % 48.9 50.3 50.2 Male % 51.1 49.7 49.8 Average age years 41.7 41.6 41.4 Training costs per employee CHF 2 084 1 959 2 001 1 Proposal; LGT Bank Ltd., Vaduz; LGT only hires apprentices and high school graduates in Switzerland and Liechtenstein. 2 3 33 20192 2018 3 2017 LGT’s energy/material consumption and CO2 emissions 1 Total energy consumption MWh 17 784 17 337 20 104 Electricity MWh 11 652 12 269 14 143 Proportion of renewable % 88.3 90.1 Heating/cooling MWh 6 133 5 068 5 961 Proportion of renewable % 14.4 11.2 12.6 Proportion of district heating/cooling % 32.8 39.6 39.9 Paper consumption tonnes 243 265 358 Proportion of 100% recycled paper % 43.9 39.9 42.7 Waste tonnes 391 397 390 Flight kilometers km 31 536 763 31 248 270 25 671 351 Potable water m3 33 041 30 771 33 417 CO2 emissions 5 tonnes 7 992 7 651 6 482 Scope 1 (direct greenhouse gas emissions) tonnes 641 495 Scope 2 (indirect energy-related greenhouse gas emissions) tonnes 1 051 1 027 Scope 3 (other indirect greenhouse gas emissions) tonnes 6 300 6 129 Energy/material consumption and CO2 emissions per FTE4 Energy consumption kWh/FTE 5 034 5 281 6 551 Electricity kWh/FTE 3 298 3 737 4 608 Heating/cooling kWh/FTE 1 736 1 544 1 942 Paper consumption kg/FTE 69 81 117 Waste kg/FTE 111 121 127 Flight kilometers km/FTE 8 927 9 519 8 365 Potable water m3/FTE 9.4 9.4 10.9 CO2 emissions 5 kg/FTE 2 262 2 331 2 112 Scope 1 (direct greenhouse gas emissions) kg/FTE 181 151 Scope 2 (indirect energy-related greenhouse gas emissions) kg/FTE 298 313 Scope 3 (other indirect greenhouse gas emissions) kg/FTE 1 783 1 867 1 The data relate to consumption and emissions from operations (further information can be found on page 31). 2 2019 data: include assumptions that will be retrospectively adjusted with effective figures 3 2018 data: include minor retrospective adjustments 4 Full-time equivalents (Vollzeitstellen) 5 Scope 1: emissions generated directly through incineration Scope 2: emissions generated through purchased energy (e.g. electricity, district heating) Scope 3: emissions generated through purchased inputs and third-party services (e.g. business travel, waste, paper consumption) 34 Refutura FSC® matt, ISO white 100, 100% recycled paper, carbon neutral, Blue Angel Risk note/Disclaimer change has taken place since its publication or that it is is a possibility that investors will not recover the full This publication is promotional material. It is for your still up to date. The information in this publication does amount they initially invested. We disclaim without information only and is not intended as an offer, solicnot constitute an aid for decision-making in relation qualification all liability for any loss or damage of any itation of an offer, public advertisement or recommento financial, legal, tax or other consulting matters, nor kind, whether direct, indirect or consequential, which dation to buy or sell any investment or other specific should any investment or other decisions be made on may be incurred through the use of this publication. product. Its content has been prepared by our staff and the basis of this information alone. It is recommended This publication is not intended for persons subject to is based on sources of information we consider to be that advice be obtained from a qualified expert. Inveslegislation that prohibits its distribution or makes its reliable. However, we cannot provide any undertaking tors should be aware that the value of investments can distribution contingent upon an approval. Any person or guarantee as to it being correct, complete and up fall as well as rise. Positive performance in the past coming into possession of this publication shall therefore to date. The circumstances and principles to which the is therefore no guarantee of positive performance in be obliged to find out about any restrictions that may information contained in this publication relates may the future. The risk of price and foreign currency losses apply and to comply with them. change at any time. Once published, therefore, inforand of fluctua­tions in return as a result of unfavorable mation shall not be understood as implying that no exchange rate movements cannot be ruled out. There LGT Group Foundation Herrengasse 12, FL-9490 Vaduz Phone +423 235 11 22, lgt@lgt.com UID: CHE-208.624.214 www.lgt.com 50335en 0520 1.1T BVD
