H. E. António Guterres Secretary-General United Nations New York, NY 10017 USA Kolding, den 14. November 2020 Statement of continued support United Nations Global Compact Dear Mr. Secretary-General, Hotel Koldingfjord is pleased to express its continuing support of the Global Compact’s ten principles with respect to human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. We have gained a lot of inspiration from the initiative. Most of the core principles have now been merged with our own policies and procedures in our continuing effort to operate a responsible and sustainable hotel business. We are delighted and proud to submit the attached Communication On Progress as of November 2020 and to renew our commitment to the United Nations Global Compact. Yours sincerely, Hotel Koldingfjord AS Peder J. Madsen CEO Enclosed: Hotel Koldingfjord’s communication on progress, November 2020 Fjordvej 154 – DK-6000 Kolding – Tlf.: +45 7551 0000 – Fax +45 7551 0051 hotel@koldingfjord.dk – www.koldingfjord.dk Communication on progress United Nations Global Compact November 2020 Description of actions: We take pleasure in presenting and describing the following policies, procedures and activities which reflect Hotel Koldingfjord’s implementation of the UN Global Compact’s 10 principles during our first year as a participant. Human Rights: Principle number 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle number 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Actions implemented at Hotel Koldingfjord: Hotel Koldingfjord’s CSR policy aims to take responsibility for our employees in creating a safe and healthy working environment both physically, psychologically and ethically. We encourage diversity in our staff, and we have a zero tolerance policy against discriminatory behaviour, e.g. in respect of age, sex, religious affiliation, sexual preferences and ethnicity. We invest in solutions and technology which enhance our guests’, employees’ and our suppliers’ safety as well as solutions and technology that support their health. Fjordvej 154 – DK-6000 Kolding – Tlf.: +45 7551 0000 – Fax +45 7551 0051 hotel@koldingfjord.dk – www.koldingfjord.dk Labour: Principle number 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the rights to collective bargaining. Principle number 4: Businesses should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle number 5: Businesses should support the effective abolition of child labour. Principle number 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Actions implemented at Hotel Koldingfjord: We encourage our staff to become members of a labour union. We hold regular meetings with the employees' union representatives and have, among other things, in connection with COVID-19, ensured further dialogue with the hotel staff. We keep all agreements made with the national labour unions on behalf of our staff. We keep all our employees covered by the PensionDanmark health scheme. We only employ adult persons and ensure that these are given wages above the minimum tariffs stipulated by agreement with the unions. We train skilled employees in the subjects waiter, chef, receptionist and baker. We have a comprehensive training program for hotel employees and have, among other things, in connection with COVID-19 used online training for hotel employees. Environment: Principle number 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle number 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle number 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Fjordvej 154 – DK-6000 Kolding – Tlf.: +45 7551 0000 – Fax +45 7551 0051 hotel@koldingfjord.dk – www.koldingfjord.dk Actions implemented at Hotel Koldingfjord: Awarded with The Green Key label, Hotel Koldingfjord shall continue to fulfill a long list of environmental demands, for example to decrease and to limit the production of waste, the use of water, central heating and electricity, thus reducing its CO2-omission. Anti-Corruption: Principle number 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Actions implemented at Hotel Koldingfjord: We do not allow any employee to accept invitations, travel trips or to participate in business partner or supplier events without permission from the CEO. We do not accept that hotel employees receive, demand or offer money, presents or services to anybody in order to obtain any preferential treatment. Measurements: Employee well-being: Every year in the first quarter, we carry out an employee well-being analysis with a focus on cooperation, physical and mental well-being, as well as management. In 2019 and 2020, the analysis was carried out in collaboration with by the Danish hotel and restaurant industry association HORESTA and the trade union 3F using the system Better Hospitality Workplace . The results of the analysis are processed together for the entire hotel and in the hotel's individual departments. A summary of the analysis can be found on the hotel's website: www.koldingfjord.dk/hotel-koldingfjord/hvem-er-vi/trivselsanalyse/ In 2020, we achieved the following results measured on a scale from 0 to 100: Social capital for all hotel departments 81.6 General labor market in Denmark: 69.0 * Social capital is based on trust and justice Management quality for all hotel departments 80.4 General labor market in Denmark: 63.1 90% of the employees answered the questionnaire. Education: In connection with COVID-19, 550 online course days have been completed in a number of different subjects for 55 employees from the entire organization. Fjordvej 154 – DK-6000 Kolding – Tlf.: +45 7551 0000 – Fax +45 7551 0051 hotel@koldingfjord.dk – www.koldingfjord.dk In 2020, Hotel Koldingfjord has implemented the following Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) At a staff conference in January 2020, the hotel's employees and management chose to focus on the following 4 SDGs: • SDG 3: Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages • SDG 4: Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all • SDG 7: Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all • SDG 12: Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns Work on implementing these targets has taken place in 2020, but has unfortunately been limited due to COVID-19 restrictions. Implementation will continue in 2021. Hotel Koldingfjord: We believe that Mindful Personal Service comes from within and should be delivered with heart and soul. At Hotel Koldingfjord we realise that satisfied, loyal employees create value by contributing to creating satisfied, loyal guests. For that reason, we are proud to continually publish the results of recent job satisfaction analysis from our staff. We pride ourselves on being in close dialogue with our guests from far and near, and it’s important for us that we ensure that Mindful Personal Service is delivered for every guest, every time. This means, that you can trust Hotel Koldingfjord to form the framework of your next event and be sure you are in safe hands. Hotel Koldingfjord is owned by the Danish Nurses Organization, (DNO). DNO was founded in 1899 and handles the interest of approx. 77.500 nurses. Hotel Koldingfjord is classified as a four star hotel by the Danish hotel and restaurant industry association HORESTA. Yours Sincerely Hotel Koldingfjord Peder J. Madsen CEO Fjordvej 154 – DK-6000 Kolding – Tlf.: +45 7551 0000 – Fax +45 7551 0051 hotel@koldingfjord.dk – www.koldingfjord.dk
