SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 BRİSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 CONTENT ABOUT THE REPORT................................................................................................................................................................................................2 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO.....................................................................................................................................................................................3 ABOUT BRISA.............................................................................................................................................................................................................4 2019 IN FIGURES.......................................................................................................................................................................................................7 OUR AWARDS IN 2019............................................................................................................................................................................................8 OUR SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH.......................................................................................................................................................................8 OUR SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH.......................................................................................................................................................................9 OUR MATERIAL ISSUES.......................................................................................................................................................................................9 SMART MOBILITY......................................................................................................................................................................................................12 DIGITALIZATION.........................................................................................................................................................................................................16 INNOVATION and CORPORATE ENTREPRENEURSHIP..................................................................................................................................18 ENERGY AND EMISSION MANAGEMENT..........................................................................................................................................................20 EFFICIENT USE OF NATURAL RESOURCES AND LESS WASTE GENERATION........................................................................................22 RESPECTING BIODIVERSITY..................................................................................................................................................................................24 ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY PRODUCTS & SERVICES.............................................................................................................................25 CONTRIBUTING TO CIRCULAR ECONOMY.........................................................................................................................................................26 DISTRIBUTION CHANNELS MANAGEMENT......................................................................................................................................................27 SMART CULTURE.......................................................................................................................................................................................................31 EQUALITY AND DIVERSITY.....................................................................................................................................................................................35 PUBLIC RELATIONS...................................................................................................................................................................................................36 ABOUT THE REPORT As Brisa, we have been transparently sharing the economic, social and environmental impacts of our operations together with how these impacts are being managed in line with related targets and performance criteria with our shareholders since 2012. The 2019 Sustainability Report covers our sustainability performance between the dates 01.01.2019 and 31.12.2019. Our report is prepared in accordance with the Core level guidelines as stated in the Global Reporting Initiative Standards Reporting Guideline. As we did in our 2018 reporting period, we again contracted an independent external audit service for issues concerning energy consumption, carbon emissions, water consumption, training hours, employee distribution, newly hired employees, employees who quit their jobs, top management, workplace health and safety, and total amount of waste according to its type. In the reporting period, we further received external assurance for water consumption for our Altunizade, İzmit and Aksaray locations and received external audits for the carbon dioxide emission values of Altunizade, Izmit, Aksaray and Esenler Bridgestone Service Center. Our sustainability priorities, which are compiled as a result of our Sustainability Questionnaire Project organized with the participation of our internal and external shareholders during our first reporting period, and which are reviewed on an annual basis, constitute the framework and contents of our report. These primary topics are reevaluated and revised with a reviewing project that has been held during the reporting period. Carrying our sustainability performance forward and becoming a more accountable and transparent organization inline with our elevated sustainability performance is amongst our indispensable targets. We believe in the importance of shareholders’ feedback. You can share your feedback by communicating with us from b.kurumsaliletişim@brisa.com.tr address in order to help us continually increase our sustainability performance to better levels. 2 BRİSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 CEO MESSAGE Dear Stakeholders, Taking responsibility with a heartfelt approach and being a part of the solution is the basis of our sustainability understanding. With this understanding, 2019 has been a year in which we have implemented many exemplary practices. We are happy to present these achievements to you, our stakeholders, with our sustainability report, the eighth of which we have published. 2019 was a year of critical changes all over the world. As global industrial production declined, the effects of climate change began to be felt much stronger. Similarly, our country was affected by these changes and difficult conditions in different dimensions. Brisa performed strong in 2019, a year dominated by economical fluctuations and effects. Our total annual sales revenues reached 3.560 million TL. We recorded an increase of 16.5 percent in foreign sales revenue in dollar terms. With our 2,874 employees and our factories equipped with the latest and smart technologies, we have enriched the values we offer for all our stakeholders. We reinforced our leadership once again with the investments we made in the dealer network and brands in the domestic market. We have achieved sales and shipment records by including 14 new countries in our export regions in international markets. We strengthened our position as the most valuable brand of the tire industry by increasing 10 points in the research Brand Finance Turkey's Most Valuable and Powerful Brands . As Turkey tire industry leader and one of the leading companies in the industry, we continued to develop sustainable solutions facing today's challenges through digitalization, technology and R&D, and to carry out our operations in a way that creates positive value for our stakeholders in the reporting period. We achieved our first capacity targets in our Brisa Aksaray production center equipped with smart technologies. We have received support approval from TÜBİTAK with the project “Producing innovative tires using Carbon Nanotube” developed by our Izmit factory and R&D center with the consultancy of Sabancı University. We took part in the TÜBİTAK Industry Digital Transformation program with the Digital tire assistant design using image processing technology project. With digital fleet services, we achieved another “first” by providing solutions for instant tracking and management of fleets. In order to take our digitalization efforts even further, we determined our Digital Maturity Level and created a road map for the upcoming periods. Our sustainability performance continued to be appreciated with the awards we received during the reporting period. In 2019 Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP Carbon Disclosure Project) we took our place among Turkey Climate Change Leaders. Also, in the Supplier Communication Rating field, which is calculated for the first time within the scope of CDP, we have become the only company in Turkey, placed among the global leaders. With our efforts in the field of sustainability, we took part in the BIST Sustainability Index for the fifth time. The successes we have achieved in the field of sustainability are an important source of motivation for us. Extending our sustainability understanding in our wide value chain and implementing innovative products and services will continue to be among our most important business priorities. I would like to express my gratitude to all our stakeholders, especially our employees, who enabled the sustainable value we created as Brisa possible. Best regards, Cevdet Alemdar 3 BRİSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ABOUT BRISA The foundation of our Turkish tyre industry leader company, goes back to the establishment of the Lassa Tyres brand in 1974 with the initiative of Sabancı Holding and its partners. The establishment of Brisa, and the start of Lassa Tyres’ and Bridgestone’s journey goes back to the partnership agreement signed in 1988 between Sabancı Holding and World tyre industry leader, Bridgestone Corporation. Having won the first National Quality Award in 1993, our company became the first Turkish enterprise to be awarded with the EFQM European Quality Award in 1996 as a result of its superior performance in business excellence. Today, we are among the largest tyre manufacturers of Europe. We are manufacturing tyres especially designed for passenger vehicles, light commercial vehicles, buses, trucks, agriculture vehicles and earthmovers under Bridgestone, Lassa Tyres and Dayton brands. We are also presenting the Kinesis brand tyres, which are manufactured for industrial vehicles with high safety and quality standards in line with international standards, Firestone branded agricultural tyres and Bridgestone motorcycle tyres to the market, hence reaching a total of 1.800 different tyres in our portfolio. Our products and services meet with vehicle owners through 1,400 branded sales points domestically, and Lassa Tyres, produced with Brisa employees’ efforts, reach vehicle owners in 83 countries through 83 distributors, and 6.000 sales points in total, of which 600 above are branded with Lassa Tyres. With a closed area reaching to 361.000 m2, our İzmit Manufacturing Plant is one of the biggest manufacturing plants gathered under one roof globally, and is one of the most important manufacturing facilities of Bridgestone in the World. Our second factory, which was established in Aksaray OSB with an investment of 300 million Dollars, on the 135,000 m2 of the first stage of the 952,000 m2 area, is the first factory equipped with smart applications in the sector. Services Non-tyre Products Sales Channels Tyre Brands Bridgestone Seismic Profleet Bridgestone Bridgestone Isolator Mobilfix Otopratik Battery Lassa Tyres Lassa Tyres Filofix OtoPratik Bandag (Retreading) Tyre Hotel ProPratik Firestone Brisa Academy Bandag Dayton Brisa Museum Lastiğim Kinesis Aspects Lastik.com.tr Protread Probox Bridgestone Box Protread New Aspects+ / Truckcam / Cutcure AMF / TMP+ / MFS Continuum FOR 30 YEARS, WE HAVE BEEN ACCOMPLISHING FIRSTS IN OUR INDUSTRY WITH DIFFERENTIATING PRODUCTS AND UNIQUE SERVICES. WE ARE DRIVING ON COURAGEOUSLY AS THE INNOVATION LEADER OF TURKISH TYRE INDUSTRY. 4 BRİSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Our Mission Our Values Our Slogan Our Vision Provide superior Work safety, innovation, We drive on Designing the value to society with customer orientedness, with courage future of the sustainable growth team work, business excellence, sustainability journey Factory equipped with smart • Intelligent vehicles in the factory (person recognition, speed adjustment according to the technologies in Aksaray: person, route optimization) We display the best examples of smart applications Cooperation of technology and environment in our smart factory, which we established in • Raw material transfer with closed systems Aksaray with an investment of 300 million dollars. • Wastewater treatment systems With the technology base factory, we brought to • Solar panels in the administrative building Turkey, we offer value to the national economy • LED lighting sensitive to environmental light through our moves in the fields of production, • Electric and dry battery powered vehicles employment and exports, while strengthening the • Annual environmental target; 18% reduction in position of our country in international competition. total electricity consumption per ton The foundation of our factory was laid in 2013 Dünya Newspaper: Stating that they treated the and started production as of the end of 2018. We wastewater three times, Brisa Aksaray Factory have made our processes partially autonomous by Director Cenk Koçdor said, The waste water that using new generation technologies such as robotic comes out after this process is clean enough to applications, big data and digitalization in our factory. keep fish alive. Aksaray ranks first among the With our İzmit and Aksaray factories together… regions that receive the most sunlight in Turkey. • We connect our employees in our Izmit and This advantage led to the generation of efficient Aksaray factories with virtual reality applications policies in Brisa. In LED lighting, different lighting (smart glasses) in a virtual environment. comes into play when the sun is most intense • We produce tires every 2.5 seconds. and another when the cloud passes. In the last 10 • We provide work for 60,000 people of which 2,800 years, Brisa has achieved 47 percent improvement are employees and 12,000 employees working in in overall water use and wastewater recovery, 71.6 the dealer network. percent increase in energy savings, and in rubber consumption 30 percent decrease in carbon dioxide Full automation in tire transfer: emission per unit in 2018. • 2 times more stock turnover rate • 30% less energy consumption Bloomberg Businessweek Magazine: Aksaray Factory displays the best examples of industry Digital Twin models: Tire tracking with technology 4.0 applications. Processes have been partially • Detection before having a problem autonomous by making use of new generation • Factory living digitally at 11 locations in the field, technologies that have left their mark on the last and in offices and operator tablets period such as robotic applications, Big Data and • Fast intervention in a maximum of 2 minutes digitalization. For example, the tire does not touch 800 million data per day with smart machines and the ground at any stage of production. 800 million tools data is collected daily through smart tools and • Optimum quality tire production by instant machines. With these data, the digital twin of the evaluation of many data collected online from the factory was created. Thus, the factory lives digitally field and automatic machine adjustment accordingly at 11 locations in the field, also in offices and • Proactive maintenance (prediction before operator tablets, and every stage of production can breakdown) be monitored with technology. 5 BRİSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 2019 IN FIGURES Number of Number of sales points set-up with our own 2019 net sales countries where concepts: Above 600 Lassa Tyres branded revenues: 3,558 Lassa Tyres are sales points and 6,000 sales points Billion TL exported to: 83 Environmental Tyres sold in Turkey Tyres exported Total investments Protection and during 2016 by during 2016 by by Brisa in Turkey: Investment Brisa: 5,990,000 Brisa: 6,229,501 1,413 Billion USD Expenditures: 485,736 USD Our energy 23.41% energy savings increase Artesian water consumption CO2 reduction per with energy consumption savings ratio per tons manufactured efficiency projects savings ratio since ton since 2008: since 2005: 30.6% compared to 2008 2008: 53% 16% values We prevented release of greenhouse Average yearly Number of emissions equal to 4,249 tons of CO2 as a training hours for employees: 2,874 result of our energy efficiency projects our employees: 45 Ratio of consumer Number of fatal tyres with a wet Number of Number of local work place surface label grade satisfaction surveys suppliers: 2,384 accidents: 0 of “C or higher” in our compiled: 40,000 total portfolio: 90% Brisa Academy training We retreaded Approximately Customer programs: We provided 118,500 1,400 branded satisfaction ratio trainings for commercial vehicle sales points in 95% 18,318 participants – tyres as part of our Turkey 49,152 person*hours Bandag services 6 BRİSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Sustainability, Innovation, R&D and Digitalization Awards • In Bridgestone Global Awards, Brisa's “Groundwater Reduction Project in Izmit Facilities” was awarded the grand prize in the environmental category. In the Bridgestone Regional Awards following awards are won: “Energy Efficiency” project in the environmental category, “ROBI-digital team-mate” project in the management fundamentals category, and the “Brisa Academy-Touching Life” project in the contribution to human development category. • As part of the Recognition on Biodiversity program, which was held for the first time this year, Bridgestone has awarded both factories of Brisa for their work supporting the “In Harmony with Nature” goal included in the Environmental Mission Statement. • Brisa Supply Chain team won the Turkey finals of the international supply chain game “The Fresh Connection” and entitled to represent Turkey in the World finale that will be held in Greece in September. • Brisa employees, with their performance throughout the period, won first prize individually at the final of the IN-LEAD Industry Leaders program, which was held for the second term. In the project evaluation, the Brisa project, developed jointly by Brisa and Kordsa employees, was honored with first place. • Brisa received the Bronze award in the Cloud Transformation category at the SAP Global Summit event with the B2C Hybris Cloud transition project. • Within the scope of our digital transformation road map, which also includes processes for end users, “Lastik.com.tr B2C upgrade and migration” project has been the first CCV2 (Cloud Commerce Version 2) project that went live in Turkey and was one of the first 20 within SAP Global. • In the Learning-Development Awards which is organized by Turkish Education Volunteers Platform TEGEP every year, Brisa won the Best Practice Award in the category of “Development Project that Contributes to the Society” and “Heroes of Customer Certificate Program”. • Lassa, one of the main sponsors of the World Mountain Bike Marathon Championship, which will be hosted by the Sakarya province in 2020, has been given the title of a bicycle-friendly company by Sakarya Municipality. 7 BRİSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 OUR SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH Sustainability is one of the most important fundamentals of how Brisa carries on its activities. We are driving on courageously in all the geographies we operate in with pioneering applications of our industry following the corporate values and governance experience guidelines of our shareholders, Bridgestone Corporation and Sabancı Holding. With the consciousness driven by being a responsible manufacturer, we are investigating further to accomplish better results, develop innovations, make investments, work harder and produce in order to carry on the value we have created for our shareholders further. We Continued to Take Our Place Amongst the Companies Listed in the Borsa İstanbul Sustainability Index Earning its right to take its place in the Borsa Istanbul Sustainability Index in 2015, our company once again successfully met the criteria of the index for the November 2019 – October 2020 period and got listed in the index for the fifth time. In 2019 Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), we were among Turkey Climate Change Leaders. Our efforts to reduce the effects of climate change and protect natural resources in 2019 we received the “A-” rating in the CDP's Climate Change Program. Thus, awarded fourth time as CDP Turkey Climate Change Leader we became one of the 5 Climate Leaders of companies in Turkey. CDP launched a program, this year for the first time in Turkey, aimed at managing climate change risks by reducing them and reporting on the performance of collaborations in the supply chain. As Brisa, we have become one of the global leading companies by obtaining the highest grade with A in the Supplier Communication Rating category. We were the only company that achieved this success in Turkey. SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT We are combining our sustainability management approach and sustainability strategies together with our core operations and competences and continue to create added value for our shareholders. We are viewing our sustainability approach as part of our corporate culture and therefore as part of all our activities. We are carrying on communication projects in order to extend our sustainability approach among our shareholders. We are executing audit activities in order to identify our improvement areas in terms of sustainability and we assure the development of our sustainability performance with action plans based on tangible targets. 8 BRİSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 We are taking advantage of nationally and internationally accepted standards in order to assure the continuous development of our social, environmental and extensive economic performances and we periodically carry out benchmarking projects. We are moving in line with an effective sustainability management structure that stretches out from the top management level to all other levels of our company and we are ensuring the effectiveness of this structure with transparent and bidirectional communication mechanisms and extensive auditing processes. SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT STRUCTURE SUSTAINABILITY EXECUTIVE CORPORATE CEO WORK GROUP COMMITTEE COMMUNICATIONS SPONSORS Technology, Supply Chain Economic and Social Customer, Product Production, OHS Processes Processes Processes and Environmental Processes We identified our priority responsibilities in social, environmental and economy fields as part of our sustainability policy, which we established in 2015. We are realizing communication activities and training sessions in order to increase the awareness of our policy both amongst our own employees and other shareholders based in our value chain. Click to reach Brisa Sustainability Policy. OUR MATERIAL ISSUES We are annually reviewing our sustainability priorities, which were first identified in respect Exciters to the project carried out in 2012, with Biodiversity, workshops and communication activities. Innovation and Corporate Entrepreneurship, During the reporting period, we reviewed our Smart Mobility prioritized issues within the topics-universe created in line with global megatrends, industrial priorities, our sustainability priorities, Wants Musts and feedback we have received from our Circular Economy, Energy and emission Use of Natural management, shareholders with 37 employees from 25 Resources, Environmentally Friendly different departments. We organized a Digitalization, Products and Services, workshop that reflects the expectations of 6 Becoming a Preferred Public Relations, different stakeholder groups. We presented Employer Equality & Diversity, (Development Data Safety, our topic universe and materiality matrix to our Journey) Sales Channel top management team and placed their views Management on a Kano Model. The materiality matrix that has been finalized following our studies can be found below. 9 BRİSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Following workshops, we have organized, we also revised the structure of the report with which we present our sustainability performance to our stakeholders. We shared our “Management Fundamentals”, which have been included in our previous period sustainability report, on our corporate website and included our material topics in conjunction with related megatrends to our sustainability report in line with the data we have gathered as a result of this workshop and feedback shared by the participants. Our new report body, which was structured as explained, is as follows: MEGATRENDS MANAGEMENT PRIORITIES FUNDAMENTALS Comprehensiveness & Work Health and Safety Smart Mobility Diversity Digitalization Campaign Against Bribery Human Rights and Corruption Innovation and Corporate Entrepreneurship Quality of Life Employee Rights Energy and Emission Management Climate Change Responsible Value Chain Use of Natural Resources Initiatives Responsible Supply Environmentally Friendly Products Chain Way of Conducting and Services Business Beyond Legal Depletion of Resources Circular Economy Regulations New Mobility Trends Public Relations Growing Economic Added Becoming a Preferred Employer Rapid Urbanization Value (Development Journey) Demographic Changes Inclusion In Identificaton of Equality & Diversity Environmental and Social Big Data Data Safety Policies Sales Channels Management Biodiversity Sustainability Material Issues According to Stakeholder Groups. Local Investors Top Business Management Customers Employees Suppliers management/ and Public Partners people Institutions Smart Mobility • • • • • • Digitalization • • • • • • • Inovation and Corporate • • • • • • Entrepreneurship Energy and Emission • • • • • • • Management Use of Natural Resources • • • • • • Environmentally Friendly • • • • • • Products and Services Circular Economy • • • • • • • Public Relations • • • • • • • Becoming a Preferred Employer (Development • • • • • • Journey) Equality & Diversity • • • • • • Data Safety • • • • • Sales Channels • • • • • • Management Biodiversity • • 10 BRİSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 2019 developments and 2020 targets for our goals identified in conjunction with our sustainability performance and priorities are as follows: WHAT DID WE TARGET IN 2019? 2019 PERFORMANCE DESCRIPTION 2020 TARGETS Dissemination of the new KPI systematic to management In 2019, the department based KPI monitoring Creating and following up the Commitment Statement projects of and teams was carried out on the same systematic. departments Complete our application to the Personal Data Protection The institution application was made on Completing our application to the Personal Data Protection Authority MANAGEMENT Authority 28.12.2019. To carry out the Quality Assurance Assessment “QAR” study, which Conducting the next QAR (Quality Assessment Review) work Planned for 2020 provides assurance that the internal audit activities comply with the in the first quarter of 2020 International Internal Auditing Standards, in the third quarter of 2020. Completing the first phase of the project for the digitalization of audit New Target! activities, in which we will implement 200 different control scenarios. To continue our efforts to ensure that our Sustainability Policy To continue our efforts to ensure that our Sustainability Policy spreads Dissemination efforts continued spreads in the value chain in the value chain Ensuring the continuity of the system that will confirm that Ensuring the continuity of the system that will confirm that the suppliers Our Responsible Purchasing policy was shared with the suppliers have read and understood our Responsible have read and understood our Responsible Purchasing Policy in a all suppliers and posted on our website and portals Purchasing Policy in a certain period. certain period. VALUE CHAIN To complete our WSA project by 70% %70 completion acheived To complete our WSA project by 90% CRM Secret Customer Visits 410 dealers, 3 visits CRM Mystery Shopper Visits to 410 dealers, 3 visits for each CRM Mystery Shopper Visits To 410 dealers, 2 visits each each are realized Apply the Customer Satisfaction Survey to 28,000 people 40,000 people reached Improving the process with QR code NPS-net recommendation score will be followed as KPI. NPS-net recommendation score will be followed as KPI. Target 78% Above target performance with 78% Target 75% NPS NPS Reducing our well water consumption by 61% in 2020 Reducing our well water consumption by 61% in 2020 compared 53% achieved compared to 2008 to 2008 Continue to the CDP-water program Completed Continue to the CDP-water program ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT Verification within the scope of ISO 14046 Water Footprint Completed Verification within the scope of ISO 14046 Water Footprint Standard Standard Reducing the total carbon dioxide emission per tonne Reducing the total carbon dioxide emission per tonne production in 30.6% actualization achieved production in 2020 by 25% compared to the value in 2005. 2020 by 25% compared to the value in 2005. Continue Green Office Program Continued Continue Green Office Program Continue to report on CDP-climate change Completed Continue to report on CDP-climate change Verification within the scope of ISO 14064 Calculation of Verification within the scope of ISO 14064 Calculation of Greenhouse Completed Greenhouse Gas Emissions Standard Gas Emissions Standard Completing ISO 50001 Energy Management System Completed in İzmit plant. Will be completed in Continuing the necessary system certifications certification in 2019 Aksaray plant in 2020. To achieve 110 tons of plastic waste reduction in 2021 within the New Target! scope of the Business Plastic Initiative, We aim to retread 120,000 tires 118,500 tires retreated To retread 120,000 tires To carry out studies reaching University Students with Carrying out studies reaching University Students with employer brand There are no new targets in this area employer brand in new digital platforms in new digital platforms The actions and activities of the company and To improve the employee loyalty by following the action New projects are targeted within the scope of the Smart Culture functions were carried out regardless of a certain plans monthly. strategy period. WORK LIFE Sharing the Human Resources Journey Bulletin There are no new targets in this area Increasing awareness of travel activities Continue and complete the Aksaray Cultural Transformation The project continued with the contributions of Continue and complete the Aksaray Cultural Transformation Project Project Aksaray Cultural Ambassadors. To review and renew the Leadership and Development New training programs are created (Let’s CO), With the Journey project, the programs will be redesigned and Journey modules under my Brisa Journey other program contents are being reviewed communicated. A new goal has been set with the decision to Improving the onboarding process Completing the Digital Orientation Project digitize the process To continue our support for public institutions and civil We actively shared our knowledge and experience To continue our support for public institutions and civil initiatives initiatives with the initiatives we are members of. SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT To continue our support for education through BMÖDD We supported 95 students in the 2018-2019 To continue our support for education through BMÖDD (Brisa (Brisa Members Supporting Learning Association) academic year. Members Supporting Learning Association) To continue our support with the Mountain Bike (MtB) Team Our team competed in national and international To continue our support with the Mountain Bike (MtB) Team and to within Brisaspor competitions. establish a Table Tennis Team within Brisaspor. Especially before the travel periods and during To provide general information about traffic safety through tire change periods, communication work was Awareness communication on traffic safety press communication. carried out. Establishing more systematic relationships with the Establishing more systematic relationships with the community by community by improving the methods of communication and We receive external stakeholder opinions improving the methods of communication and feedback among our feedback among our stakeholders. stakeholders. 11 BRİSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SMART MOBILITY Safe and efficient mobility has been one of the most important contributors of cultural and economic development in human history. The advances in technology changed the transportation requirements of people; depleting resources and accelerating tempo of business-world made it necessary to flourish even smarter mobility solutions. Here at Brisa, we consider changes in requirements, contribute cities to be more sustainable and help prevent traffic accidents as a result of the importance we place in product safety while designing our products and services. “When we consider that the change even in the needs of our customers is getting much faster, it is not enough for us to show the best performance for today. In order to realize the unimaginable and differentiate the Brisa experience by making it unique, we think of tomorrow, anticipate, imagine, design and implement the future as the whole Brisa Family.” Murat Özgen Brisa Mobility Solutions Manager We assist people to make smart choices with our product information scheme Providing understandable information about our products to our shareholders constitutes one of the fundamental principles of our responsible marketing approach in terms of customer health and safety. We fully support Tyre Labeling System criteria as a primary reference within this scope. We provide multi-parameter information that enable our customers to prefer the tyres accommodating their driving habits as well as road and weather conditions that they drive on, rather than focusing on providing product information that focuses on only a single performance criterion. We are working harder to improve the Wet Surface Braking Distance performance of our products We share wet surface braking distance The ratio of products with a “C” or performance of all our products on our products a higher wet surface performance grade labels, as it is an important indicator of our performance in terms of traffic safety. 87% 90% 81% 83% 84% 69% 73% We are consistently working towards increasing the ratio of products with a “C” or a higher wet surface performance grade in our product portfolio. We realized our 89% target set for consumer 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 products as 90% during the reporting period, and we are aiming to increase this ratio to 91% in 2020. 12 BRİSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Bridgestone, the world's leading tire and rubber company, acquires TomTom Telematics, the world's leading digital fleet management solutions company Bridgestone Europe, a subsidiary of Bridgestone, has acquired TomTom Telematics (Telematics), Europe's leading provider of digital fleet solutions, with a € 910 million deal. With this investment, Bridgestone is strengthening its digital capacity to make fleet operations more effective and efficient, and to expand the scope of mobility solutions. Thanks to the TomTom Telematics agreement, Bridgestone will become a very powerful fleet solution center for fleet managers who need a more reliable and innovative partner than ever, considering economic and environmental value. Bridgestone has developed long-lasting tires for the new X5, 8 and 3 series of BMW, with which it has been in cooperation for 25 years. Bridgestone, which develops, produces and supplies products for the original equipment tire sizes used in BMW cars, has designed products that have achieved the best tire rolling resistance levels in its class, as a result of 2 years of R&D studies. The products help reduce fuel consumption and extend tire life. Bridgestone offers tires with RFT technology that allows it to travel 80 km at a speed of 80 km, even if it blows out, and ologic technology specially developed to meet the specific demands of the BMW i3, i3S and i8 electric vehicle models. We are offering a new generation tyre purchasing experience with Otopratik. We are improving tyre purchasing experience with our easy, qualified, fast and economic maintenance shop chain Otopratik. During 2019, the number of our Otopratik service points reached 57. When we examine trends in the world and Turkey, we see the concept of specialization in every sector becomes more and more important. By closely monitoring this structural transformation in the world, we as Brisa strive to pioneer in terms of speed, flexibility and quality in Turkey. In Otopratik stores, where we provide fast auto maintenance services that are completed within an average of two hours, we provide consumers with the highest quality service by providing flexible solutions for their needs. We include our business partners in this transformation and specialization process. Our profitable business model also creates a highly competitive power for our business partners. Our vehicle rapid maintenance concept, which we have presented to our sector for the first time, is critical for us to sustain service excellence as well as the spread of Otopratik. Yakup Demir Brisa Assistant General Manager for Sales 13 BRİSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Charging Service to Vehicles by Brisa Brisa and E-Şarj joined forces to provide solutions for a widespread charging service critical to the development of the market. With the collaboration of E-Şarj, Brisa started to provide charging services for electric vehicles in Otopratik stores and tire sales points. According to International Energy Agency data, the number reached 5.1 million with 2 million increase in 2018; electric vehicles market sees more interest in Turkey with each passing day. According to the research report of Boğaziçi University, it is predicted that until 2022 the number of electric vehicles is expected to increase by 56 times to 140 thousand, and the number of charging stations will increase by 35 times to 14 thousand. “As in the rest of the world, the interest in electric vehicles in our country is growing rapidly. We know that one of the biggest needs in order to increase the development of the market and the use of electric vehicles is the expansion of charging stations. The cooperation we have achieved with E-Şarj by taking the lead in this field is of great importance. We aim to expand our charging service that we have launched for electric vehicles representing the future of travel, to all Otopratik stores and to our strongest dealer network in the Turkish automotive industry. With all these efforts, we will continue to offer our customers an uninterrupted travel experience beyond the tire.” Tekin Gülşen Brisa Information Technologies Director (CIO) “Established as a start-up, E-Şarj progresses to the future more strongly, now a majority share of the company belongs to Turkey's leading energy company Enerjisa Enerji. With the vision and support that Enerjisa has added to us, we will continue to remain the leading player in this field in our country.” Cem Bahar General Manager of E-Şarj We continue to offer special services to fleets with Propratik. Propratik is a sales and service chain concept focusing on heavy commercial vehicle segment with which we are reaching drivers with 9 nationwide service points. Our Propratik service points meet all sales and service requirements of heavy commercial vehicles with innovative solutions as well as providing support to drivers for an efficient and safes driving experience. 14 BRİSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 We are targeting the perfect Brisa experience for our fleet customers with Profleet. We are generating sustainable solutions with Profleet fleet management model, which we developed in order to combine our fleet management solutions under a single roof, so that our customers can manage their operations with minimum costs. We ensure 5% savings on fuel consumption and 15% increases in average tyre life. “Today, the average annual income of a fleet of 100 vehicles that benefit from Brisa's smart services is 1 million 722 thousand TL. If Brisa offers all of these services to the entire fleet in Turkey, the total value created is calculated as TRY 16.6 billion. We are now working on developments and different services that await the future travel experience. The need for systems that can predict the journey of the tire is increasing and our focus is on responding to these needs.” Evren Güzel Brisa Marketing Director Bridgestone to Develop Tires for Travel on the Moon Bridgestone has announced that it will take part in an international space exploration mission with the Japanese Space Exploration Agency (JAXA) and Toyota. Bridgestone will investigate the performance requirements of the tires of mobile vehicles that will be used by people and will work with pressure and will help these vehicles to better contact the lunar surface. The company will carry out a joint study with both institutions in this process, which is the next stage of human exploration of space. 15 BRİSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 DIGITALIZATION We are expanding technology in all our production and business processes with our digitalization initiatives as a natural outcome of our innovation culture and sustainability approach. We lead our industry with our digitalization efforts, which help us to use company resources more efficiently, develop new business models, design innovative products and services and create unique customer experience, and we create added value for everyone with analytical and mobile solutions. Digital Thermometer determined in Brisa In our Digital Transformation journey, we made a measurement of Digital Maturity Level to understand the point reached so far and to continuously follow the improvement areas. Within the scope of the Digital Maturity Measurement and Evaluation performed, strengths and weaknesses, maturity level of each determined area and general maturity level of the institution were determined. Actions, priorities and targets for the results obtained were defined. We are included in TÜSİAD's companies that support digital transformation in industry program We participated in the TÜSİAD SD2 program, which supports the strengthening of the digital transformation process in the industry, with a technology call called “Digital Tire Assistant Design Using Image Processing Technology”. “Our new digital fleet systems reveal the final point we have reached in the field of smart mobility and our determination to develop in this area. Our fleet customers, with whom we provide 360-degree consultancy under the umbrella of Profleet, will now gain a much stronger benefit with our new generation, digital applications. We believe that our customers, supported by data that will prevent accidents, can observe a significant improvement in this area. They will also minimize their environmental impact while reducing their overall costs. Thus, they will have invested in the sustainability and profitability of their institutions. We are confident that our leadership will be reinforced as the only institution that offers these services at one point. The impacts of all of these that add value to our industry and economy also encourage us to progress in the field of digitalization and innovation.” Berk Berksoy Brisa Commercial Products and Profleet Marketing Manager 16 BRİSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 We started the Digital Fleet Age We started a new digital era in fleet management. Our company, which develops exemplary practices in the sector with Profleet Fleet Management Solutions, has achieved a first in Turkey by incorporating this solution into the “digital fleet” services. Telematics and TPMS (Tire Pressure and Temperature Measurement System), Driving Support System, and Profleet mobile applications allow instant tracking and management of fleets. We guarantee their efficiency, security, reliability and profitability. We share our experience in digitalization with business and opinion leaders Brisa’nın iyi örnekleri ve başarı hikayesini, SAP’nin organizasyonunda hayata geçirdiğimiz Dijital Deneyim Çalıştayı’nda, Kayseri Sanayi Odası ve Kalder iş birliğinde düzenlenen dijitalleşme panelinde ve TÜSİAD’ın sanayide dijital dönüşüm konusunda farkındalığın artırılması için üretim yönetimi” temasıyla gerçekleştirdiği 6. Sanayide Dijital Dönüşüm Günleri etkinliğinde paylaştık. In digital transformation, it is our children’s turn: Coding Workshop for Children With Makers Türkiye, we organized “do it yourself with technology” workshops on the new generation learning trends and do-it-yourself culture for our employees and their children. We made no concessions on data safety. We continued to protect our customers’ and business partners’ data with highest standards while we proceeded our digitalization projects at full speed. During the reporting period, we provided our employees with 739 hours of business ethics and 221 hours of behavior principles, 219 hours of competition law and 220 hours of information security, and 174 hours of business continuity training. We are conducting the “Pioneers of the Journey” open innovation program in order to be able to bring innovative solutions in mobility. Our company is focusing on trainings and processes in order to increase the digital competencies of our employees and we are accelerating the pace of our practices in order to raise the benchmark of digital maturity level of our company beyond the leadership of the industry. 17 BRİSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 INNOVATION and CORPORATE ENTREPRENEURSHIP We are working to transform Brisa from being an industry company into an innovation company. We are aiming to make innovation an indispensable part of our corporate culture and business processes. To this end, we restructured our organization and established Entrepreneurship Department under Market Development and Quality Directorate. We are conducting our Innovation and Corporate Entrepreneurship projects, which play an important role in our sustainability strategies, under the leadership of this is department. Brisa Innovation Strategy WHY? HOW? WHAT? Intrapreneurship Programme, Encourage employees and re-designed with a userall stakeholders to question centered approach and challenge the status-quo Cultivating a customer driven Startup engagement Facilitating intrapreneurship innovation culture within management and startup and startup engagement Brisa scouting experiences Local and global network Designing methods and building within the systems to expolit innovation entrepreneurship ecosystems and entrepreneurship Brisa Innovation Team (BIT) BIT, consisting of volunteering professionals from different functions and disciplines, is continuing with a team of 16 people to support extending innovation culture and management of innovation processes. The aim of BIT is to contribute to our business success by bringing out multidisciplinary, customer focused and creative solutions and to mentor internal corporate entrepreneurs. Brisa Innovation Portal Brisa Innovation and Project Portal is a platform where Brisa employees can enter and follow their ongoing entrepreneurship ideas and strategic projects for the company. 19 different in-house initiative applications were received through our Rocket Program -our in-house entrepreneurship program, renewed and launched in November 2019and BIPP. As of June 2020, 8 internal initiatives continue their activities with the support of Brisa Innovation Team mentors and senior management sponsors. 18 BRİSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 We support entrepreneurs and Pioneers of Journey. As Brisa we encourage entrepreneurs and entrepreneur candidates to develop business ideas, prototypes and initiatives that will shape the future of the travel with the Pioneers of Journey open innovation program . We offer opportunities such as financial support, mentoring and entrepreneurship training for successful entrepreneurs, through calls we open at each stage of the three-stage program. In 2019, we completed the final stage of our Pioneers of Journey open innovation program at Kolektif House Levent. While Stroma Vision, which analyzes driver behavior to reduce accidents, has won the first prize, we have planned to support all projects shortlisted in the final with Brisa's expertise. We started the Corporate Entrepreneurship Program The Rocket Program launch started in three different locations in our company, with the inspirational speech of Makers Türkiye founder Ongun Tan entitled Thinking Like an Entrepreneur . In the next period, together with their senior management sponsors and Brisa Innovation Team mentors, Brisa employees started their journey to realize their innovative in-house initiatives through the Rocket Program. Brisa R&D Day At the Brisa R&D Center located in our Izmit factory, which is certified with the encouragement of the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology, we accelerate our value added, innovative product development and mobility activities. We organized an R&D Day where our projects related to our activities are explained and Brisa employees from R&D department and from different departments attended. Bridgestone R&D Tire Technology Director Mario Di Domenico to speak on the future of mobility and Technology communicator Dr. Sertaç Doğanay to speak on new technologies attended as guest speakers. “With technologies such as the Internet of Things, artificial intelligence, robotics, mobility is getting a new face all over the world. As the leading tire company of our country, we follow a strategy focused on innovation and technology, to ensure that Turkey becomes a strong player in this journey. Today, we feel a great excitement and passion to realize innovations in every field from procurement to production, from sales to after sales services. For this, we believe that it is very important to learn from outside and to lead young people and entrepreneurs. With this understanding, we have touched nearly 90 entrepreneurs so far in our Pioneers of Travel program. Entrepreneur teams that won our program had grant support and various memberships, as well as opportunities for joint market and business development with Brisa. Currently, we continue to create value together in the Brisa ecosystem. In our new application period, we will deal with projects meticulously again, and we will be in full cooperation with entrepreneurs and entrepreneur candidates. Thus, together with entrepreneurs of Turkey, we will implement solutions that will take our country one step further in this field.” Yeliz Erinçkan Brisa Entrepreneurship Manager 19 BRİSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ENERGY AND EMISSION MANAGEMENT Climate change, one the most crucial problems that our world faces with, necessitates a collective combat for all business world regardless of sector and size. As Brisa, we manage our operations with the awareness of our responsibility in solving this problem. In this perspective, efficient use of energy, elimination of wasted or inefficient energy constitute one of the roots of our way of doing business. Thanks to the systematic improvement studies we carried out in order to provide efficiency in energy consumption and to minimize our impact on climate change, we reduced our energy use in our İzmit plant in 2019 by 15.69% compared to 2008. In the reporting period, the energy consumption of Aksaray plant increased by 228% compared to 2018. The reason for this increase is that the production capacity increased by 101% in 2019. During the reporting period, the energy efficiency projects we carried out at our İzmit and Aksaray plants led to USD 705.798 financial savings. Reducing greenhouse gas emissions resulting from our activities and their impact on global warming is among our strategic targets. In this manner, Bridgestone Group Environment Committee identifies global policies on climate change with the coordination of Global Management Platform. These policies are shared with strategic business units to be internalized and executed by organizations. Detailed execution plans concerning these policies developed by Bridgestone Group Environment Committee is identified on a national scale and their results are periodically reviewed and reported. Carbon dioxide emissions resulting from the activities carried out in our İzmit plant between 20122019 are covered by the Assurance Audit Standard (GDS 3000) within the scope of the Sustainability Report; In Aksaray 2017-2019, in Altunizade / Maslak locations between 2014 and 2019; The carbon dioxide emissions from the activities between 2014 and 2018 at Esenler Location have been verified by independent auditor organizations according to ISO 14064 Greenhouse Gas Calculation Standard. In accordance with ISO 14064 Standard, the “Greenhouse Gas Inventory Report” has been prepared annually since 2013. İzmit Plant Energy Consumption İzmit Plant Direct and Energy Aksaray Plant Direct (GJ/ton) Indirect Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Energy Indirect (Index; Base:2012=100) (Scope 1&Scope2) (Scope 1&Scope2) (ton Greenhouse Gas Emissions CO2-e / Production Ton) (Index, Base: 2012 (Scope 1&Scope2) (Scope 1&Scope2) = 100) (ton CO2-e / Production Ton) (Index, Base: 2018 = 100) 100 100 96 96 96 95 92 93 93 93 93 91 89 89 91 84 84 84 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2018 2019 20 BRİSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 We have been working on reducing carbon dioxide emissions in our Izmit facility since 2005. In 2020, we aim to reduce carbon dioxide emissions per unit rubber consumption by 25% compared to 2005. We achieved this goal in 2019 with a rate of 30.6%. In the reporting period, Scope 1 emissions of İzmit factory decreased by 1.81% compared to the previous reporting period. A 37% reduction in tonne production was achieved in Scope 1 emissions at the Aksaray plant. In 2019, Scope 2 emissions decreased by 0.86% per tonne production at the İzmit plant. In the same period, a reduction of 33.9% per tonne production was achieved in Scope 2 emissions at Aksaray plant. WE PREVENTED GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS EQUAL TO 4,249 TONS OF CO2 AS A RESULT OF OUR ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROJECTS CARRIED OUT IN 2019. LED Lighting Conversion Project As a pilot application in 2018, we renewed 1,000 lighting fixtures with LED technology and started live tests. Since our evaluations and pre-feasibility studies are determined positive, the production continues in our factory in 2019 and we have completed the conversion of 6,091 fluorescent luminaires to LED luminaires without affecting any processes. Thus, 2,250,000 kWh of energy was saved, preventing 1,096 tons of CO2 emission. Smart Press / Automatic Vapor Shut-Off System Project We started to use the “Internet of Things” in our Izmit factory to reduce the energy costs of the cooking site. With this practice, we have gathered our machines and production systems in different fields in a single structure and have gained a structure where machines can make predictions and make decisions without being dependent on people. With the project, we provide 7000 tons / steam saving and 852 tons CO₂ emission reduction in our İzmit factory annually. 21 BRİSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EFFICIENT USE OF NATURAL RESOURCES AND LESS WASTE GENERATION The sustainability of our operations is directly linked with the reduction of environmental impact caused by our operations. We are putting great attention into using raw materials that do not possess health and pollution risks by taking into consideration the environmental impacts caused by the of use and consumption of our products. We are using natural resources in an effective and efficient manner in line with our improvement and awareness projects. As Brisa, we prepared our long-term business plans in order to more efficiently use water resources that are forecasted to be depleting in the following years. Our most important target in that manner is to reduce our artesian water consumption by 61% in 2020 compared to 2008. During the reporting period, we reached 53% improvement compared to 2008 levels in terms of water consumption and recovery of wastewater as a result of our projects, and we surpassed Bridgestone’s global targets. Thanks to the practices carried out within the scope of reducing the groundwater withdrawn for domestic and industrial use, in the reporting period, İzmit plant achieved 11.5% reduction compared to previous year. We are decontaminating wastewater resulting as a result of our processes at the biologic decontamination facilities and discharging it to Water and Sewage Administration’s collector in İzmit and to Organized Industrial Zone’s collector in Aksaray. In the Aksaray factory, domestic waste water is used to irrigate green areas after treatment. We are periodically reviewing the compatibleness of our facilities with measurement tests. We are taking important steps towards the minimization of waste with all our projects. In the reporting period our waste figures are as below: Total Artesian Water Usage İzmit Plant Hazardous Waste (m3) (Ton) 764 761 703.08 530,738 661 660 490,120 495,014 480,353 640 672 607 443,755 438,755 462,516 425,353 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 22 BRİSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 As part of the reduction of our environmental footprint, we are reviewing our production processes considering prevention of waste at the main source, regaining or recycling generated waste and we are paying great attention to using raw materials that do not possess health and pollution risks by taking into consideration the environmental impacts caused by the of use and consumption of our products with our waste management projects. As part of our waste management strategies, we started “Zero Landfill” implementation as of the end of 2015 at our İzmit facilities and as of June 2017 at our Aksaray facilities. In line with this implementation; • We do not send any waste to waste storage facilities, • Solid waste generated in our facilities are • reused • recycled • regained This implementation is extended towards the 100% of the units Aksaray Plant Hazardous in our Aksaray facilities that commenced production in the Waste (Ton) reporting period. 277.925 Green Office practices by WWF (World Wildlife Fund) are 246.498 implemented in order to provide savings and improvements in the office place. Within the scope of the Green Office Program, both our Izmit and Altunizade offices possess the Green Office Certificate as a result of our activities carried on with the 2018 2019 support of Green Office team. THANKS TO THE PRACTICES CARRIED OUT WITHIN THE SCOPE OF REDUCING THE GROUNDWATER WITHDRAWN FOR DOMESTIC AND INDUSTRIAL USE, IN THE REPORTING PERIOD, İZMIT PLANT ACHIEVED 11.5% REDUCTION COMPARED TO PREVIOUS YEAR. 23 BRİSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 RESPECTING BIODIVERSITY We refrain from processes that might negatively affect biodiversity while conducting our operations and carry on our activities in accordance with Environmental Impact Assessment regulations while making our new investments. Within this scope, we are enabling possible risks that may arise to be evaluated through audits by accredited organizations. Projects conducted until today reveal that there are no lands taken under preservation or harm biodiversity within or in proximity to Brisa’ operational zones. We continue the implementation of “Let the Cranes Fly” project we started together with the cooperation of WWF-Turkey (World Wide Fund for Nature) in 2013. We carry on the implementation of our activities, which we started in order to preserve the cranes’ lineage in Anatolia, in the Çukurova Delta, where 95% of the cranes spending winter in our country take shelter. During the reporting period, together with observation projects, we held informative sessions at schools, hunting associations and village coffeehouses. Moreover, we organized simultaneous crane observation activities at Adana, Mersin, Samsun and Kayseri with the participation of volunteers and university students. In total, we have observed 3,076 cranes with 133 participants. With the forestation projects we conducted in 2019 in our İzmit and Aksaray manufacturing plants, we are continuing our efforts to create “sink areas” for the elimination of carbon emissions and preservation of bio-diversity. In that regard, we raised 40,000 tree saplings from seed in our greenhouse located in our İzmit manufacturing plant in 2019. We helped 1,750 saplings meet the soil in various organizations. These trees play an important role in the elimination process of the carbon emissions that we create. As a result, we are targeting to reach our goal of becoming a manufacturing plant with “Zero Carbon Release” in the mid-term. Eco-School Project Studies are carried out so that the Şehit Salih Aksu Secondary School in Aksaray can participate in the eco-school program and ensure its continuity. The Eco-School Program is an international program implemented on a voluntary basis to provide environmental awareness and sustainable development education in pre-primary and primary education levels. The program is implemented in more than 52,700 schools in 67 countries, 1,428 in Turkey and currently only in Şehit Salih Aksu Secondary School in Aksaray. 24 BRİSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY PRODUCTS & SERVICES We are reviewing our “increasing environmentally friendly products portfolio to provide continuous mobility” strategy by following weighted rolling resistance average of the products that we sell and environmentally friendly products portfolio ratio and we organize projects to support our strategy. We make efforts to produce products and services that are environmentally friendly considering their effects on the environment during their life cycle. We are working on new concept products, which have lower rolling resistance and weight and which cause lower carbon emissions and noise. We own a rich portfolio of products consisting of environmentally friendly tyres like the Ecopia and Greenways series as part of our environmentally friendly product manufacturing approach. We provide onsite services to fleets in order to provide savings in terms of fuel and time spent for going to a service point with our Mobilfix concept. We are creating service awareness on customer side by meeting their service requirements. During 2019, we offered fuel savings services to 32 different fleets and we helped save 4.3 million TL in terms of fuel and tyre life savings at their own garages. We follow the performance of the tyres of our fleet customers with our Aspects+ services and help them use our products with maximum efficiency. We are calculating the time required to change tyres by measuring tyre pressure and tyre tread depth values, and therefore provide positive impact in terms re-treadability and using our tyres appropriately by controlling the tyres onsite and in a timely manner. We performed a total of 3.8 million tyre measurements with our 100 profleet consultant until today and every year we offer more than 4.000 customers field and tyre measurement services. Ecopia EP150, the safety tyre of the environment: We reduce the rolling resistance 9% lighter construction (*) of our tyres without compromising safety with 14% lower rolling resistance (*) Ecopia technology and provide efficiency in 1,7% fuel efficiency (*) fuel consumption. 5% shorter wet surface breaking distance (*) 15% more durability (*) Under normal circumstances: (*) Comparison to previous generation of Bridgestone product according to TUV test results Lassa Greenways: We provide savings with Lassa Greenways. The nano-pro technology used in Greenways tyres reduce 37% less rolling resistance (*) rolling resistance and fuel consumption. While Greenways 5,5% fuel efficiency (*) enables easier handling on dry and wet surfaces due to 8% shorter wet surface breaking distance (*) its environmentally friendly tread pattern, it also provides 30% more durability (**) a comfortable and silent driving experience with its light Under normal circumstances: construction and innovative design. In field tests, it provides (*) Comparison to previous generation of Lassa Tyrese product according to TUV test results 45% saving to vehicle owners by traveling more than 3 times (**) Comparison to competitor tyres according to Brisa field test results. compared to its most affordable competitor. Bridgestone Driveguard As you will not carry a spare tyre, you will have more space in your trunk and the weight of your vehicle will decrease. As a result of this decline in vehicle weight, fuel consumption will also decrease significantly. Bridgestone fuel test (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=chLAe9WOntc&feature=youtu.be) Lassa Driveways provides shorter braking distance with more effective contact to the road on wet surfaces. Driveways has an 8% shorter wet surface breaking distance than its competitors as identified by TUV, and it reduces fuel consumption as a result of its 9% lower rolling resistance. It is offered to the market as a more economic and environmentalist tyre pattern. 25 BRİSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 CONTRIBUTING TO CIRCULAR ECONOMY We have an important responsibility in terms of contributing to circular economy as a leading actor of the tyre industry. The use of fossil fuels during its production phase makes tyres one of the most basic waste resources. In that manner, we are adopting an effective waste and recycling management. First of all, we are contributing to sustainable management of natural resources by implementing production models supporting circular economy. We are enabling tyre wastes generated during production to be transformed into fuel and energy. Secondly, we are providing the elimination of tyres that completed their life cycles. The collection and reuse of tyres that have completed their product life cycles in to production is one of the most contributive factors to circular economy. During 2019, the tyres that have been collected and reused have contributed 170 million TL to national economy. We are continuing our operations with full responsibility of collecting and reusing tyres that have completed their product life cycles as floor covering in children’s parks, as synthetic grass in football fields and as fuel in the cement industry. In that manner, we support the appropriate collection and regaining of tyres that have completed their life cycles in accordance with Tyre Industrialist’s Association (LASDER), of which we are a founding member. During 2019, we supported the collection and recycling of 177,630 tons of tyres. We provide retreading services and reuse of tyres with our Bandag services as part of our tyre management services. With Bandag services, which are in accordance with circular economy model, we extend the life cycle of tyres. The retreading of a truck or bus tyre allows for 55 kilograms of savings in use of raw materials, prevent 60 kilograms of waste and decrease CO2 emissions by 30%. Moreover, the process of retreading means 70% less use of petroleum resources. In the meantime, Bandag also provides cost advantages and provides up to 40% savings in the tyre costs of fleet businesses. During 2019, we retreaded 118,500 vehicle tyres as part of our Bandag services. In line with our “Zero Landfill” implementation, which we started in 2015 at our Izmit facilities, we aim to stop sending waste to landfills from our manufacturing plant and use the generated waste to reuse, recycle and regain. To that end, during 2019, we enabled the reusing, recycling and regaining of 100% of the wastes generated in our facilities. Number of Tires Retreaded by Years We further insure the collection and recycling of a certain ratio of packaging materials we use in 129,000 our operations with the coordination of Çevko and 125,000 116,000 118,500 in accordance with the regulation of packaging waste control. As a result of our efforts, we signed a contract with Çevko for 16,065 kilograms of 2016 2017 2018 2019 packaging waste in 2019. We reduce the use of natural resources with the Bandag coating service. With our Bandag coating service within the scope of tire management, while saving up to 40% in fleet tire costs, we greatly contribute to the protection of natural resources and the national economy with quality materials and the right production conditions. Thanks to the coating and reuse of the tires, we triple their life and contribute to environmental protection with less tire waste. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VEBy_4_NoIk 26 BRİSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 DISTRIBUTION CHANNELS MANAGEMENT OUR BUSINESS PARTNERS We are continuously expanding our sales and service points in order to enable our customers easy reach to our products. We are targeting to offer our customers an effective sale and after sales service organization with a extensive sales and service network. We are working to develop and grow our sales network with our business partners who have adopted a similar business culture with us. We are separately focusing on retail, wholesale and fleet distribution channels in order to utilize our business in a more effective manner. WE OWN THE LARGEST DEALER NETWORK IN TURKEY WITH APPROXIMATELY 1,400 BRANDED SALES POINTS. We organize Digital Tuesday Meetings We meet with our dealers every month at Digital Tuesday Meetings, we share ideas and information on critical topics such as campaigns, our sales-marketing practices, trainings, finance, cross-tire products and risk management. We came together at the Otopratik Franchise Meeting We shared the latest developments in business processes, procurement, software and hardware, marketing and communication, legal processes, technical training and audits at the Otopratik business partners meeting where we shared the actions taken by the brand to maintain and spread the service excellence standard. The business partners, who proudly represent the Otopratik brand, shared their Otopratik experiences and their contribution to being in this business. Saffet Üçüncü, one of the veterans of the automotive world, also took part in a conversation about the future of the automobile world in the meeting, at which the owner of the 20 new points participating in the Otopratik network also attended. Brisa Academy Started Serving Our Business Partners as an Accredited Personnel Certification Body Brisa Academy, which aims to provide qualified and experienced human resources as a corporate university by training the tire industry as well as the entire business world, has been accredited by TÜRKAK as a Personnel Certification Body according to TS EN ISO / IEC 17024 standard. Certification of Brisa Academy, authorized by the Ministry of Family, Labor and Social Services Vocational Qualifications Authority, provides certification services in 28 European Union countries within the scope of 4 national qualifications in the fields of “machine maintenance, automotive mechanic, automotive pre-mechanic and tire maintenance repairer”. 27 BRİSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 We are implementing a trustworthy training and auditing system so that no concessions are made in terms standards offered at our sales points. We are providing trainings to our business partners at their shops, where they offer services, to support the improvement of their customer satisfaction and customer experience by observing their operational status onsite and determining the development areas with the leadership of Brisa Academy and Marketing Excellence teams. In that manner, during 2019, we offered 13,915 person*hour trainings to 2,446 dealer employees. We get together with our business partners; whose customer satisfaction evaluation grades are under Turkey average and increase their awareness. During 2019, we provided 48 onsite trainings to 20 business partners with the help of Brisa Academy trainers in that context. We pay attention to contribute to the continuity of our business partners’ operations and to develop long-term relations with them based on reciprocal trust. We are implementing the “New Generation at Work” certificate program for our business partners, which are being handed on by one generation of owners to another, in line with our vision to grow together with our business partners in order to contribute our business partners to expand their visions, increase their efficiency, and institutionalize their businesses. During 2019, we increased the number of business partners whom we view as long-term business partners. We added 28 new business partners to the Brisa Family. We hosted business partners whom we welcomed to our family during 2017 with the “Welcome Meeting” we organized at our Aksaray Manufacturing Plant. We shared our intent to develop Brisa’s systems, customer approach, and customer satisfaction policies together with business partners while we listened their expectations and requirements. We are implementing a coaching program in order to swiftly increase the adaptation of members, who have recently joined the Brisa Family, and to strengthen our ties with our business partners. We are aiming to expand good implementation examples by informing our business partners about our customer approach, customer satisfaction standards, and correct practices with in the context of this program. We Measure the Trust of Brisa Dealers with “Dealer Trust Index” Brisa and Competitors' current tire sales, future expectations, inventory status, general tire market assessments and future expectations of the tire market are monitored monthly, evaluated statistically and both the Dealers' Trust Index and the Dealers' Future Expectation Index are tracked. Thus, we shape our monthly operational agenda in line with the expectations of our dealers. 28 BRİSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Our Customers Our customers are found at the main focus of our business. Correctly understanding the needs and expectations of our customers and designing solutions in accordance with these needs and expectations form the basis of our customer relations understanding. We are continuously working to improve our customers’ experiences, and targeting to satisfactorily conclude their experience at our sales and service points. Customer Satisfaction Survey One of the most important elements of our customer (%) 95 management model is our customer communication 94.6 94.8 93.5 channel. Brisa Hot Line is one of the leading communication mechanisms with which we receive customer feedback. We support and inform our 86.1 86.3 customers all along a product’s life cycle with Customer Contact Points. We collect our customers’ suggestions and opinions, prioritize this feedback and develop 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 appropriate solutions with our Customer Application Management System. In addition to these systems, we identify improvement points about our products and services, and continuously enhance our performance through online questionnaires, focus group projects and experience maps derived from our web sites. We measure our customers’ satisfaction rate about our products and services together with our dealer network’s service quality with our annually conducted customer satisfaction research. The result of the 2019 research revealed that our customer satisfaction ratio for the year was 95%. Otopratik stores are audited according to 250 criteria, customer service quality is maximized In order to make the perfect customer experience sustainable in its stores, Otopratik increases service and quality standards consistently across Turkey with the audits conducted under the leadership of the independent audit firm SGS. The stores were evaluated in 5 categories on 74 different audits within the scope of 250 criteria. At all franchise points that are under the scrutiny in terms of personnel competence, equipment and process standardization, an improvement of 10% was achieved on the basis of criteria and customer service quality was improved. 29 BRİSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 We are offering easy, economic, swift and quality vehicle and tyre maintenance services at our Otopratik points, which we designed to improve tyre purchasing experiences of our customers with a diverse product range answering customer expectations, effective sales and service processes and technological infrastructure. We are offering solutions to our fleet customers under one roof with the Profleet fleet management model. We are creating sustainable solutions with which our fleet customers can manage their businesses with minimum costs with our Profleet services. In addition to the product and service supports we offer to our clients, we also enable them to make savings on fleet management costs such as trainings, consultancy, road assistance, inventory management, digital programs, central invoicing, regular tracking and reporting processes. WE CONTINUE TO PROVIDE OUR CUSTOMERS ROAD ASSISTANCE, THE FIRST EVER ESTABLISHED IN TURKEY IN OUR INDUSTRY, WITH FILOFIX SERVICES. WE PROVIDED ROAD ASSISTANCE TO 2,205 VEHICLES IN 2019. WE PROVIDED CONSULTANCY SERVICES TO OUR CUSTOMERS IN TURKEY FOLLOWING OUR INSPECTIONS OF 3.8 MILLION TYRES IN TOTAL AS OF THE END OF 2019. WE TAKE THE LEADERSHIP IN THE TIRE RETREADING INDUSTRY AND PROVIDE RETREATING SERVICES TO 80% OF FLEET CUSTOMERS. OUR CUSTOMERS HAVE SAVED TL 550 MILLION IN THE LAST 5 YEARS. Smart garage management for fleets We renewed the smart garage management program TMP + 2.0, which we developed for fleets, and went beyond tire measurement and added the service modules needed by the fleets. With TPM + 2, a digital and mobile solution offered only by our company in Turkey, we offer fleet management of tire and service expenses, detection of lost-stolen tires and special projection reports. TMP + 2.0 users earn an average of 264 thousand TL annually in a fleet of 100 vehicles. Kinesis distribution system We launched an innovative distribution model for Kinesis, our forklift brand we offer in accordance with the conditions of Turkey. Growing with Brisa's experience and perfectionist way of doing business, distributors will have expertise in service for this segment that requires special equipment and technical knowledge. 30 BRİSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SMART CULTURE In 2018, Brisa started development and transformation at work place journey in line with its “Smart Culture” main strategy. We structured Smart Culture based on our differences, and set a project and an accompanying road map with wide attendance. Our priority is to enable the appropriate climate so that our employees can contribute to Brisa, which is getting ever stronger in a transformation phase, with their best. We made up Smart Culture of two dimensions: Digital Transformation Journey and Brisa Journey By Digital Transformation Journey we are aiming to increase digital literacy and enable the efficient use of cutting-edge technological devices within the context of our digital transformation journey. We are structuring our new generation based on data analytics and new generation technology solutions. We are differentiating as a company from the rest of the industry and Turkey with our advanced data analytics projects. As a result of our projects, our employees’ need for information system declined. They can reach the data they require on their own, interpret these data and analyze their own reports. One other step of digital transformation is the digital workplace. We integrate digital workplace applications with our systems and offer them to our employees. With Brisa Journey we believe that starting from their initial recruitment, every Brisa employee has potential to add value to the company, shareholders, processes, teams and him/her self. While we acknowledge every Brisa employee as a talent, we expect every Brisa leader to create value by developing him/her self, his/her occupation, his/her talent, and the general climate. We co-evaluate our employees showing high potential and performance together with all our managers within the context of our “Organizational Success Plan” and plan their development. We support our employees’ Brisa experience with our differentiating training processes such as 360° Competence Evaluation, Development Center, “Development Journey” and “Leadership Journey”. We take their competencies and Sabancı Group Business Model as our basis while we design their leadership roles. Within the scope of our program under the name of Warm-Up ( Warm Up Tours for Beginners ), we meet with our employees with 0-1 years of experience in breakfast conversations, welcome their second months with a warm celebration, introducing our values in an adventurous education in the Pit-Stop team game. We evaluate the first years together at the end of 1st year. We support the leadership competencies of Brisa executives in the first year in which they have moved from specialist to an upper position, with “Leave a Mark with Your Leadership”. We support students' career development and prepare them for business life with our “First Trace in My Career” long-term internship program, where we meet with students from the Engineering departments of universities. We accelerated our digital workplace practices We have made it possible for Brisa employees to work faster and more efficiently in their business processes. We started interactive trainings in which we introduced digital workplace applications connected to cloud systems such as file sharing, storage, working as a team, etc. At the same time, as part of our internal digital transformation efforts, we have accelerated our efforts to popularize the social sharing platform Yammer. We also moved Tek Nokta, which operates in the field of information technologies, to solve the needs of our employees and answer their questions, on WhatsApp. Thus, Brisa employess could find solutions to their demands much more quickly and easily. 31 BRİSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ROBI Our Artificial Intelligence Based Teammate “We have included a new artificial intelligence solution called ROBI in our business processes. Thanks to our ROBI teammate, we automate our long-lasting, repetitive work. Thanks to the Chatbot software, ROBI receives talking information by phone, mobile application, internet or messaging; can communicate by voice or in writing. ROBİ supports processes in 11 different departments from R&D to finance, from supply chain to marketing. So far, it has worked uninterruptedly for 200 days and 1,600 hours. If our employees did the work done by Robi, a 400-day work effort would be required. It also increases productivity opportunities from 50% to 98% in business processes and reduces the risk of errors. For example, Dealer Information inquiry is done in 5 minutes before the application, and now the same process is completed in 20 seconds with the help of ROBI chatbot feature. It is now possible for my friends in Brisa to focus more on value-added jobs.” İlker Şahin Brisa Information Systems Manager “Thanks to our Smart Culture development and transformation journey, which is included in our company's main strategy, we contribute to the training of professionals who will represent Turkey in the future and technical experts who will adapt to new generation technologies. Every Brisa employee has the opportunity to develop and use their talents and experience in the new age. Every Brisa leader takes responsibility for creating value by developing himself, his business, his team and the climate. We prepare students for New Generation Business World with First Trace in My Career and Brisa Academy programs.” Nilgün Özkan Human Resources and Corporate Development Director Brisa Academy We organize professional and personal development trainings for our employees under the roof of Brisa Academy. In 2019, we provided 49,152 person x hours of professional and personal development training. One of our most important priorities is to enable a working environment in which our employees can develop themselves, increase their competencies, and become more productive. During 2019, we continued to implement programs helping us getting in touch with our employees in line with our priorities. In that manner, we held the following activities; Internal Trainers’ Summit: Brisa Academy organized the Internal Trainers’ Summit in order to pay respect to trainers who provide nearly 20% of all the training sessions. 32 BRİSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Break Time Social Platform Witamin: During the last Wednesday of every month, Brisa employees can listen to many speakers from various platforms as they take a 20 minute break with our Witamin activity. Employees, who would like to share their accumulated knowledge using the platform, can broadcast their speeches. Suru-Raku Conference: 14th of the traditional Suru-Raku Conferences, with which we gather attention to the importance of standardization of business processes of our company and to continuous improvement, was held at the İzmit Conference Hall with the participation of Brisa employees and managers. Brisa Young Advisory Board actions were launched The first Young Advisory Board members who set out to create our leadership development program with agile methods, experienced a development journey themselves and designed their own leadership and development programs in line with their own dreams, inspired from the outside and fed from inside. While adding the opinions and feedback of 140 Brisa employees to the process, they came together with different stakeholders with a co-design method and had new experiences. They learned from their experience with programs ranging from social entrepreneurship to sensor-oriented design. They launched the brand new, up-to-date, bold and inspiring “Let’s Co” Leadership Development Program, which they designed. Brisa is a company that brings firsts. Our Young Advisory Board has designed their own dreams. They designed their own leadership development programs by living with different business partners and experiences. We implemented the first program modeled in this way. Neslihan Eroğlu Brisa Human Resources Manager Thanks to the design of this program, people who never managed and did not lead a team dreamed of leadership. In doing so, they asked their colleagues and leaders and received feedback. They gathered everyone's voice and blended it. Ömer Ongun Korn Ferry Program Leader 33 BRİSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Aksaray Cultural Transformation While creating the “Smart Culture” which is a part of our company's strategy, we initiated a comprehensive cultural transformation in our Aksaray factory. Before starting the cultural transformation, we listened to all our employees, including our managers about our needs, the points that need to be developed, the points we are strong at in the workshops, and we determined our culture with participation. Based on the values of our company partners Bridgestone Corporation and Sabancı Holding, and the competence portfolio of our company, we have determined the 3 culture dimensions to be focused on as: We Produce Solutions by Continuous Learning We Contribute with Respect and Courage We Embrace Passionately We have set up our suggestion system to share our ideas about the points that come to our minds while working, chatting, where we want to improve the environment, improve or reduce the risks, and even any random subject that passes through us. We have published our “Brikim” magazine to inform our operator friends and all colleagues. In order to strengthen our social side, we established our “Bristro” social facility where we can come together, eat and chat with our families, organize events. We also organized events in Aksaray to create an opportunity to express ourselves and to contribute to the city we live in. We went to the field with our volunteer friends and made free tire pressure and tread depth measurements to vehicle owners and informed the drivers. We supported social responsibility projects with “Breath for the Future” and “World Cleaning Day” events. With the awareness that learning never ends, we have established a platform within which our friends talk about their interests or hobbies. We have established 14 Kobetsu Kaizen teams that bring our friends from different units together and the teams tried to solve a problem on a specific subject under the coaching of a manager. Our team members learned problem solving techniques. We launched the TLTP (Team Leader Training Program) program for colleagues who will work as blue-collar manager in a new factory, to improve themselves. We received trainings on issues such as occupational safety, fire safety, and information security. With data analytics training, we have become able to make our own reports. For our technical development, we attended PPM (Production Process Management) and maintenance management trainings in Japan and “Smart Manufacturing” training in Germany. 34 BRİSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EQUALITY AND DIVERSITY We believe in the organizational enrichment of diverse experiences and perspectives brought by diversity and uniqueness. We are carrying on our implementations with diversity and equality in opportunity principles in all organizational and operational processes. We believe equality in opportunity to be one of the foundations of social sustainability. We are working towards eliminating obstacles such as age, gender, social infrastructure, religion, language, physical conditions, etc. for equal participation in employment. We accept elimination of discrimination in terms of employment and placement as an ethical responsibility. We are adopting enabling equal and efficient participation of women to business life and increasing female employment as a principle. We increase the ratio of female employees in our recruitment processes while we implement projects in order to improve the working conditions of our female employees. We are providing the necessary support for our female employees to return to their positions following their maternity leave and to create a balance between their personal and business lives. During 2019, following our easing implementations, all of our female employees returned to their positions following their maternity leaves. Lassa became the voice of female drivers On March 8, Women's Day, within the scope of “Yola Sağlam Çıkanlar” (Steady on the Road) platform for long distance drivers, Lassa published the stories of women who are professionals of bus and truck driving, with a special video from social media channels. We Celebrated the International Women in Engineering Day with a Meaningful Movie As part of the 23 June International Women in Engineering Day, we brought together the female engineers in Brisa and the students of Aksaray Harmandalı Atatürk Secondary School, where we undertook the renovation works for the 30th anniversary of our company. We published this meeting that inspired future engineers, from our social media accounts. As part of our diversity principle, we are working towards employing more disabled individuals in our work force and we are employing more disabled individuals than required by legal regulations. We are organizing our work place to according to the needs of disabled employees. As a result of our meticulous approach about this topic, as of 2019, the number of our disabled employees has risen to 80. Heroes of the Customer The Project is a first in the tire industry. It was launched in order to increase the power of women in society and to bring woman employees in the position of manager, sales manager and service technician to the tire sector. In the program, female professionals receive trainings on many topics from retail to sustainability, innovation to store management. Our program won the Best Practice Award in 2019 on Turkey Education Volunteers Platform (TEGEP) in the Project Contributing to Social Development category. 35 BRİSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 PUBLIC RELATIONS We adopt contributing to social development and wealth as a principle. We are organizing social responsibility projects in order to have a positive impact on the geography where we carry on our activities. We realized many different social contribution projects in our 30 years of history in line with our “Management with Social Responsibility” approach. We continue to contribute towards the social, cultural, and economic development of our country with the projects that we have realized. We move in line with our principle to establish positive relations with local societies while implementing our social responsibility projects, and we consider the expectations of our shareholders. As a leading tyre manufacturer, we perceive driving safely on traffic, which matches with our products, as our most important responsibility. In that manner, we execute pioneering practices and take place in projects that contribute industrial implementations. We create long-term projects in education, culture and sports in order to reach all members of the society and provide value in various fields. We provide support for projects lead by the Hacı Ömer Sabancı Foundation, as well as implementing our own projects. Support to the Police Officers We contribute to raising awareness for all segments of the society about safe driving through LASID, of which we are a member. In 2019, we provided basic tire information and maintenance training which corresponds to 4,500-man x hours in total, for 1,500 police officers in duty and newly graduates from the Police Academy. Brisa Museum At the Brisa Museum, which is a first-time implementation in the industry, we are showcasing Brisa’s historical evolution together with its transformation process from being an industrial company to a services company with products under the “Journey” main theme. We are informing the visitors of the museum about manufacturing process and anatomy of a tyre, the importance of a tyre’s rolling resistance, pressure, balance, weight, and softness, the difference between a summer tyre and a winter tyre, and the importance of water drainage. The fact that Brisa Museum is located in a smart and environmentally friendly building further attracts the attention of its visitors. 20% of the electricity used by the building is generated through the sun panels located at the roof of the building, while watering of the more than 90 varieties of plants planted in the garden of the building is done with water received from water treatment plant. The building is among the few buildings that hold the Leed Gold certificate in Turkey. We hosted approximately 8,000 visitors at the Brisa Museum until today. Contribution to Education and Sports We make important contributions to social development with our long-term and sustainable projects in the fields of education and sports. We view education as the primary element of social development. While we contribute to future generations with our educational activities, we also try to increase the awareness levels of our shareholders about the issue. We support students’ educational activities with a fund we created with the income coming from the online trainings of Brisa Academy and the money generated through the efforts of Brisa Members’ Education Support Association. We are contributing to spreading sports with our Lassa Tyres cycling team competing under Brisaspor organization, which we have always been proud to support. In addition to supporting our cycling team, we are also supporting sports and increasing both our company and brands’ global awareness with sponsorship activities we realize in different branches of sports. Brisa Members’ Education Support Association The Brisa Members’ Support for Education Association (BMÖDD), which is continuing its operations based on voluntary participation of Brisa employees, is founded with the aim to support students in need to help them continue their education. Since its foundation, the association provided funds to more than 490 students until today and supported 96 students in 2019. We are proud to see that more than 370 students, whom we have helped in the previous years, are contributing to society today as professionals. 36 BRİSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Our books “We Drive on with Courage” reached the students with TEV Scholarship The true and sincere courage stories the Brisa people wrote on 'Mother's Day' and 'Father's Day' turned into books of “We Drive on with Courage”. The books We Drive on with Courage and We Drive on with Courage,too was published by İnkılap Kitabevi. Actor and screenwriter Can Yılmaz and actress Zafer Algöz also wrote their own stories as a guest writer for the book We Travel with Courage”. Successful writer Şermin Yaşar met with the readers in “We Drive on with Courage”. The drawings of the book were made by cartoonist Selçuk Erdem. They also promoted our books and established a bridge between readers. All income from the sale of the books was donated to the Turkish Education Foundation (TEV) as a transportation scholarship for the students to go safely to their school and back home. Our scholarship has reached 500 students. Brisa people also became ambassadors in the promotion of the books with their posts on their personal social media accounts. “We as Brisa people, produce tires. The products we produce by the sweat of our brow in our factories in Izmit and Aksaray, touch people at two thousand points in our country and at six thousand abroad. They carry life, carry food. In order to take the value, we add to our country further, we walk forward carefully and fearlessly by pushing ourselves to find new ideas, unexpected perspectives. Our stories in this book have the same spirit.” Cevdet Alemdar – Brisa CEO As the Turkish Education Foundation, we provide scholarships to 7 thousand students every year. 2 thousand of these students graduate and we choose 2 thousand more students. How many students apply for our scholarships? 48 thousand! So, we can only grant scholarships to one in every 20-25 students. For this reason, every scholarship fund opened is a new student for us, and Brisa's scholarship fund means hundreds of students! In order to be able to read, we have children who go out of school in the evening and wipe stairs, eat only one meal per day, and go to their schools for miles by foot. Brisa's encouraging and inspiring stories give our scholars the opportunity to write brand new stories of courage. On behalf of the Turkish Education Foundation, I would like to thank all Brisa Family. Yıldız Günay Türk Eğitim Vakfı Genel Müdürü We Became the Breath in Aksaray We participated in the Breath into the Future event with our 25 Cultural Ambassadors who took responsibility for the cultural transformation activities of our Aksaray factory. In the event that the Ministry of Forestry has organized overall Turkey, we became the breath to the future by planting a total of 375 saplings in the Hicip Afforestation Area. We supported the World Cleaning Day (Let’s Do It) movement as a transportation sponsor through our ambassadors, and our factory employees carried out environmental cleaning in Uluırmak Regulator with all of the volunteers and their families. 37 BRİSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 We hosted university engineers in our factory within the scope of “Courageous Engineers” Program Within the scope of our cooperation with Toptalent.co online career platform, On December 5, World Engineers Day, we hosted 45 students from various universities in Turkey in our Izmit factory. As part of the program, we organized a workshop prepared with the support of young teams from different depatments of Brisa, such as R&D and Mobility Solutions, and we heard the voice of the students. The engineers of the future, who had the experience of developing ideas and making presentations, also visited our Izmit factory. We provided 3,600-man x hours of training to 577 students in 2019 with Brisa Academy programs. We hosted the students of Harmandalı Atatürk Secondary School in our Aksaray Factory Nearly 70 students and teachers from Harmandalı Atatürk Secondary School, where we completed the renovation works in memory of the 30th anniversary of our company, visited our Aksaray Factory and examined digital smart applications in our factory, and received innovation and sustainability training. Brisaspor Brisaspor, first established under the Lassaspor name in 1978, became Brisaspor in 1988 following the joint venture between Bridgestone and Lassa. Brisaspor is a federate club continuing its activities in Turkey, Europe, Asia and Africa continents. Since its foundation, the club has been competing in Young, Junior, and Adult Men’s Teams categories and included Female Team to the organization in 2001 and Mountain Bike Team in 2005. Brisaspor succeeded in many national and international competitions. The team not only contributes to the promotion of cycling sport, but also contributes to increasing interest in bicycle use, which is an environmentally friendly means of transport in line with Brisa's sustainability approach. In addition to their success in the Turkish Championships in 2019, our athletes also represented our country successfully in the Balkan and European Championships. Also, we have become one of the main sponsors of the 2020 UCI World Mountain Bike Marathon Championships, which will be hosted by the Sakarya province and under the auspices of the Presidency, first time in Turkey. 38 BRİSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Raw Material Group Supply Values (%) / / / / / / / / Energy Consumption (GJ/ton) (Index, Base:2012=100) (İzmit Plant) TOTAL 100 96 92 93 96 93 89* 89* Direct 100 78 73 70 105 199 346* 348* Indirect 100 99 95 97 95 75 44* 44* Energy Consumption (GJ/ton) (Index, Base:2018=100) (Aksaray Plant) TOTAL 100 328 Direct 100 63 Indirect 100 66 Energy Saving by Efficiency Projects (GJ/ton) (Cumulative Index, Base:2012=100) (İzmit 100 114* 131* 142* 152* 163* 180 107 Plant) Total Water Consumption by Source (m3) Well Water 530.738* 443.755* 438486* 490.120* 462,516 495,014 480.671* 425.323* Municipal Water 13,126 19.132* 17.132* 21.397* 17.896* 70,628 115.873* 127.477* (İzmit+Aksaray) Municipal Water (Other) 1,250 1,732 4,213 3,744 4.234* 1.977* Water recycled/reused (m3;%) / / / / / / / / Total Water Discharge by Destination (m3) TOTAL (İzmit) 268,854 319,662 309,724 680,566 557,449 846,307 388.341* 421.372* TOTAL (İzmit,Aksaray,Alt.& Total Water Discharge by Destination (m3) 268,854 319,662 310,974 682,298 561,662 919,400 489.334* 533.199* Otopratik) Direct GHG Emissions (Scope 1) (ton CO2-e// Direct (Scope 1) (İzmit) 100 73* 66* 62* 90* 167* 284* 282* Production ton) (Index, Base: 2012=100) Direct GHG Emissions (Scope 1) (ton CO2-e/ Direct (Scope 1) (Aksaray) 100 63* Production ton) (Index, Base: 2018=100) Energy Indirect GHG Emissions (Scope 2) Enerji Dolaylı (Scope 2) (ton CO2-e//Production ton) (Index, Base: 100 99* 96* 97* 95* 81* 59* 59* (İzmit) 2012=100) Energy Indirect GHG Emissions (Scope 2) (ton Enerji Dolaylı (Scope 2) 100 67* CO2-e/Üretim Ton) (Index, Base:2018=100) (Aksaray) Total Direct and Indirect GHG Emissions (Scope 1&Scope2) (ton CO2-e/Production TOTAL (İzmit) 100 96 93 93 95 91 84* 84* Ton) (İndeks, Baz:2012=100) Total Direct and Indirect GHG Emissions (Scope 1&Scope2) (ton CO2-e/Production TOTAL (Aksaray) 100 65* Ton) (Index, Baz:2018=100) Other Indirect EmissionsScope 3 Emissions 35,097.29 41,320.12 255,154.92 279,369.69 (ton CO2-e) Goods and services bought / / / / / / 92.40 55,35* Fuel and energy related / / / / 20,401.83 24,897.69 21,882.31 21.204,73* activities Transport and distribution / / / / 6,908.50 7,659.45 8,756.76 8.965,91* (raw material) Wastes / / / / 149.79 166.23 179.00 163,39* Business travel / / / / 1,274.41 633.16 930.38 869,09* Employee commuting / / / / 2,044.61 3,650.18 3,645.43 3.820,97* Transport and distribution / / / / 2,815.19 2,798.74 3,736.16 3.818,47* (product) Use of products sold / / / / / / 214,346.32 238.472,15* Disposal of products sold / / / / 1,502.97 1,514.67 1,586.17 1.999,62* Highway / / / / 2,362.64 2,688.10 4,295.65 4,800.61 Transport and distribution Sea lane / / / / 3,833.49 4,244.28 4,148.19 3,813.57 (raw material) Railway / / / / 0.00 0.00 199.01 243.96 Airway / / / / 712.37 727.07 113.91 107.77 Highway / / / / 2,402.18 2,031.67 2,878.07 2,885.20 Transport and distribution Sea lane / / / / 322.95 595.23 705.87 807.28 (product) Railway / / / / 90.06 103.62 107.16 118.24 Airway / / / / 0.00 68.23 45.07 7.74 Nox, Sox and Other Significant Air Emissions by Type and Weight (ton CO 2 -e/Production ton) (Index, Base: 2012=100) CH4 (İzmit) 100 82 85 99 140 160 162 162* 39 BRİSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 N20 (İzmit) 100 90 108 99 100 101 95 20* CH4+N20(İzmit) 100 90 107 99 102 104 100 32* Total Waste Amount by Type (Ton) Hazardous Wastes 640* 761* 661* 672* 660 607 764 949,578* Non-hazardous Wastes 6,293 6,274 6,618 7,721 6,368 6,497 6,240 6.672,452* Total Waste (Ton/ton 0.053 0.052 0.050 0.055 0.049 0.046 0.050 0,045* production) Hazardous Waste (Ton/ton 0.0049 0.0056 0.0045 0.0044 0.0046 0.0039 0.0062 0,0207* production) Non-Hazardous Waste 0.0479 0.0463 0.0451 0.0503 0.0447 0.0421 0.0433 0,1141* (Ton/ton production) Total Waste Amount by Process Type (Ton) Reuse 183 161 171 4 198 150 171 194,015* Recycle 3,240 3,442 3,806 4,901 3,462 2,705 2,460 2.130,635* Recover 2,676 2,626 2,932 3,182 3,239 3,908 4,092 5.485,453* Inceneration 234 298 15 4 128 330 0.06 0,241* Storage 602 509 354 303 1 11 0 5,701* Environmental Protection and Investment 1,098,097 1,198,410 847,566 869,000 876,179 803,983 308,000 485,736 Expenditures (US dollars) ECONOMIC AND ADMINISTRATIVE PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Income (TL) 1,451,919,360 1,552,032,545 1,723,135,014 1,850,704,094 1,818,879,472 2,333,574,486 2,998,775,696 3,558,329,305 Operating Costs (TL) 1,027,613,373 1,027,744,179 1,137,124,014 1,173,732,849 1,193,816,021 1,644,975,933 2,154,004,211 2,492,560,732 Employee Wages and Other 188,512,109 201,899,957 236,497,535 292,383,705 298,971,149 335,798,450 404,300,843 483,721,046 Provided Benefits (TL) Payments to Pecuniary 122,703,715 131,564,956 179,103,952 230,189,633 345,019,569 209,544,341 280,135,634 313,076,688 Resource Providers (TL) Payments to the State (TL) 23,470,772 174,170 195,200 207,010 206,954 203,656 271,644 248,237 Social Investments (TL) 33,441 1,269,906 453,874 277,000 5,379,811 379,461 1,341,485 623,955 Protected Economic Value (TL) 89,288,950 155,887,307 163,302,630 137,537,042 79,515,726 142,672,645 158,721,879 268,098,647 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Total Number of Employees 1,745 1,818 2,431 2,591 2,568 2.713* 2.787* 2867* Employee Breakdown by Gender and Status (Numeral, %) Blue Collar Female 0 (0) 0 (0)* 0 (0)* 0 (0)* 1 (0,04)* 5 (0,2)* 6 (0,2)* 6 (0,2)* 1.893 1.989 1.956 2.133 2.202 Blue Collar Male 1.305 (100) 1.361 (100)* 2260 (79,0)* (77,9)* (76,8)* (76,2)* (78,6)* (79,0)* White Collar Female 67 (15,5) 79 (18)* 108 (4,4)* 126 (4,8)* 129 (5,0)* 132 (4,9)* 133 (4,8)* 145 (5,1)* White Collar Male 366 (84,5) 372 (82)* 430 (17,7)* 476 (18,4)* 482 (18,8)* 443 (16,3)* 446 (16,0)* 456 (15,9)* Employee Breakdown by Contract Type Permanent Female 67 79* 108* 126* 130* 137* 139* 151* Temporary Female 0 1* 0* 0* 2* 0* 0* 0* Permanent Male 1,671 1.733* 2.323* 2.465* 2.438* 2.576* 2.648* 2716* Temporary Male 1 1* 0* 1* 38* 52* 1* 0* Employee Breakdown by Age Groups <30 (%) White Collar 23.9 18,6* 20,3* 24,3* 24,4* 21,91* 20,9* 20,1* Blue Collar 27.6 27,3* 30,3* 28,9* 25* 27,2* 25* 23,4* <30-50> (%) White Collar 68.8 76,1* 72,7* 68,4* 69,2* 73,0* 74,1* 75* Blue Collar 71.9 72,5* 69,4* 70,7* 74,3* 72,1* 73,6* 75,0* 50> (%) White Collar 7.4 5,3* 7* 7,3* 6,4* 5,0* 5* 4,8* Blue Collar 0.5 0,1* 0,3* 0,5* 0,7* 0,7* 1,3* 1,6* Employees Covered by Collective 75 75 78 77 76 79* 79* 79* Bargaining Agreement (%) 40 BRİSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Employee Trainings (person/hour) Blue Collar (person/hour) 24,85* 17,7* 31,51* 28,28* 43,95* 36,27* 42,21* 44,81* White Collar (person/hour) 53,11* 71,6* 70,69* 65,74* 37,81* 25,32* 50,26* 43,50* Female 75,88* 64,57* 35,24* 25,14* 29,69* 39,74* Male 38,85* 35,99* 42,86* 34,23* 44,72* 44,80* Incidence Rate (IR) İzmit 0,69* 0,71* 0,86* 0,82* 0,51* 0,79* 0,54* 0,4* Severity Rate (SR) İzmit 14,79* 13,42* 12,27* 14,62* 12,35* 22,52* 9,95* 9,45* Incidence Rate (IR) Aksaray / / / / / 0.69 1,47* 0,85* Severity Rate (SR) Aksaray / / / / / 5.22 13,26* 11,2* Absentee Rate (%) İzmit 5.68 5.09 5.34 5.61 6.49 6.10 6.69 6.46 Senior Management by Gender (%) Board of Directors Female (%) 11.1 9,1* 11,1* 9,1* 0* 0* 9,1* 9,1* Board of Directors Male (%) 89.9 90,9* 89,9* 90,9* 100* 100* 90,9* 90,9* Executive Committee Female (%) 0 0* 0* 0* 0* 0* 0* 0* Executive Committee Male (%) 100 100* 100* 100* 100* 100* 100* 100* Senior Management by Age Groups <30 (%) Board of Directors 0 0* 0* 0* 0* 0* 0* 0* Executive Committee 0 0* 0* 0* 0* 0* 0* 0* <30-50> (%) Board of Directors 44.4 44,4* 44,4* 45,5* 45,5* 63,6* 63,6* 54,5* Executive Committee 66.7 66,7* 66,7* 40* 50* 50* 66,7* 50* 50> (%) Board of Directors 55.6 55,6* 55,6* 54,5* 54,5* 36,4* 36,4* 45,5* Executive Committee 33.3 33,3* 33,3* 60* 50* 50* 33,3* 50* Senior Management by Nationality (%) Board of Directors (Turkish) 63,6* 63,6* 72,7* 73* 73* 73* 73* Board of Directors (Foreign) 36,4* 36,4* 27,3* 27* 27* 27* 27* Executive Committee (Turkish) 50* 50* 40* 67* 67* 67* 67* Executive Committee (Foreign) 50* 50* 60* 33* 33* 33* 33* Hired Employees by Gender (Numeral, %) Blue Collar Female 0 (0) 0 (0)* 0 (0)* 0 (0)* 1 (1,7)* 4 (1)* 1 (0,8)* 0 (0)* Blue Collar Male 42 (100) 96 (100)* 586 (100)* 183 (100)* 57 (98,3)* 277 (99)* 119 (99,2)* 139 (100)* White Collar Female 10 (18,2) 18 (30)* 35 (28,9)* 31 (20,9)* 23 (24,7)* 17 (27)* 32 (28,1)* 24 (30,8)* White Collar Male 45 (81,8) 42 (70)* 86 (71,1)* 117 (79,1)* 70 (75,3)* 46 (73)* 82 (71,9)* 54 (69,2)* Leaving Employees by Gender (Numeral, %) Blue Collar Female 0 (0) 0 (0)* 0 (0)* 0 (0)* 0 (0)* 0 (0)* 0 (0)* 0 (0)* Blue Collar Male 39 (100) 38 (100)* 50 (100)* 87 (100)* 86 (100)* 118 (100) 65 (100)* 70 (100)* White Collar Female 6 (9,8) 6 (13)* 7 (14,9)* 13 (17,1)* 67 (77)* 14 (14)* 30 (26,8)* 13 (20)* White Collar Male 55 (90,2) 40 (87)* 40 (85,1)* 63 (82,9)* 20 (23)* 87 (86)* 82 (73,2)* 52 (80)* Hired Employees by Age Groups (Numeral, %) Blue Collar <30 39 (92,9) 91 (94,8)* 283 (48,3)* 135 (73,8)* 37 (63,8)* 219 (77,9)* 97 (80,8)* 89 (64)* Blue Collar <30-50> 3 (7,1) 5 (5,2)* 299 (51)* 48 (26,2)* 21 (36,2)* 62 (22,1)* 23 (19,2)* 50 (35,9)* Blue Collar 50> 0 (0) 0 (0)* 7 (1,2)* 0 (0)* 0 (0)* 0 (0)* 0 (0)* 0 (0)* White Collar <30 29 (52,7) 37 (61,7)* 49 (48,1)* 76 (51,4)* 42 (45,2)* 33 (52,4)* 66 (57,9)* 41 (52,5)* White Collar <30-50> 25 (45,5) 22 (36,7)* 50 (49)* 69 (46,6)* 51 (54,8)* 30 (47,6)* 48 (42,1)* 35 (44,8)* White Collar 50> 1 (1,8) 1 (1,7)* 3 (2,9)* 3 (2,0)* 0 (0)* 0 (0)* 0 (0)* 2 (2,6)* Leaving Employees by Age Groups (Numeral. %) Blue Collar <30 1 (2,6) 0 (0)* 3 (6)* 27 (31,0)* 4 (4,6)* 40 (33,9)* 22 (33,8)* 15 (21,4)* Blue Collar <30-50> 33 (84,6) 35 (92,1)* 45 (90)* 57 (65,5)* 55 (64,0)* 73 (61,9)* 32 (49,2)* 44 (62,9)* Blue Collar 50> 5 (12,8) 3 (7,9)* 2 (4)* 3 (3,4)* 27 (31,4)* 5 (4,2)* 11 (16,9)* 11 (15,7)* White Collar <30 14 (23) 18 (39,1)* 12 (25,5)* 18 (23,7)* 12 (13,8)* 25 (25)* 35 (31,3)* 11 (16,9)* White Collar <30-50> 39 (63,9) 25 (54,3)* 34 (72,3)* 52 (68,4)* 63 (72,4)* 61 (60)* 69 (61,6)* 45 (69,2)* White Collar 50> 8 (13,1) 3 (6,5)* 1 (2,1)* 6 (7,9)* 12 (13,8)* 15 (15)* 8 (7,1)* 9 (13,8)* Entry Level Wage by Minimum Wage Blue Collar 3.8 3.79 3.72 3.55 2.95 3.05 2.95 2.8 White Collar 3.51 3.52 3.26 3.39 2.71 2.68 2.46 2.19 41 BRİSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 UN GLOBAL COMPACT PROGRESS STATEMENT INDICATORS TABLE Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and p.35 Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. p.35 Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Management Fundamentals Report p.15 Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Management Fundamentals Report p.15 Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Management Fundamentals Report p.15 Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. p.35 Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support precautionary approach and environmental challenges; pp.20-25 Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and pp.20-25 Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. pp.20-25 Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Management Fundamentals Report pp.4-5 CONTACT İzmit Factory Plant Aksaray Factory Plant Marketing and Sales Office Alikahya Fatih Mahallesi, Sanayi Caddesi, No:98, Erenler OSB Mahellesi, Recep Tayyip Erdoğan Küçük Çamlıca Mahallesi, Şehit İsmail 41220 İzmit-Kocaeli Bulvarı, No:21/1, Taşpınar-Merkez-Aksaray Moray Sokak No: 2/1 34662 Altunizade, Phone : (262) 316 40 00 Üsküdar, Istanbul Fax: (262) 316 40 40 Phone : (216) 544 35 00 Fax : (216) 544 35 35 Web Address www.brisa.com.tr Corporate e-mail Address brisa.info@brisa.com.tr Legal Disclaimer All information and opinions expressed in this report, which are not of a complete nature, were provided by Brisa Bridgestone Sabancı Lastik San. ve Tic. A.Ş. The report is solely prepared for informative purposes and does not aim to constitute a basis for investment decisions. No information expressed in this report forms a proposal or part of a proposal regarding the sale of Brisa Bridgestone Sabancı Lastik San. ve Tic. A.Ş. shares, or an invitation to this kind of process. The publishing of this report does not mean that a legal relationship of this kind has been established. All featured information and related documents are believed to be accurate at the time of this report’s preparation and all information has been provided in good faith and relies on trustworthy sources. However, Brisa Bridgestone Sabancı Lastik San. ve Tic. A.Ş. does not make any kind of declaration, guarantee or promise in relation to this information. Accordingly, no company belonging to Brisa Bridgestone Sabancı Lastik San. ve Tic. A.Ş., nor their Board Committee members, advisors or employees are responsible for any loss or damage in curred directly or indirectly by a person as a result of any information or communication provided within this report, or any information based on or not included in this report.
