UNGC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2019 AUGUST 20, 2020 S & D CHEMICALS (PVT) LTD Block A, Biyagama Export Processing Zone (BEPZ), Walgama, Malwana, Sri Lanka S & D CHEMICALS (PVT) LTD For a sustainable future …. STATEMENT BY CEO 20th August 2020 To our stakeholders, Our company, S & D CHEMICALS (PVT) LTD is the first in Sri Lanka to manufacture the full range of products needed for textile processing and wet processing of garments. This greatly benefits the local textile industry and contributes to Sri Lankan garments to be more competitive. The company exports to Bangladesh, Indonesia, Vietnam, Pakistan, Egypt and also to buyers in India, Oman and Dubai. We are also excited about the possibility of exporting our products to other countries in the region and our target is to become a leading manufacturer of textile auxiliaries and wet processing aids in the region. S & D Chemicals is a very professional and highly customer focused organization, developing innovative value-added products tailor made to a variety of customers’ end-use. Almost all products manufactured by us are biodegradable and therefore environment friendly. Our focus is for a sustainable future and we always consider process optimization and the use of sustainable energy. In the process of making profits in the business, it has not forgotten the commitment that it has for the environment and the society. Since its beginning in 2013, one vision of the company has been to be a sustainable business. In each and every step of designing and developing our product profiles we always make sure to avoid restricted substances in our building blocks, which complies with our internally developed S & D Material Restricted Substance List (S & DMRSL). Therefore, we were able to obtain approval for our products from some of the world’s leading standards for textiles such as bluesign®, GOTS and ZDHC. As recognition of our highest level of commitment and endeavor to operate our business as a greener industry we were awarded the Bronze Award at the Presidential Green Awards ceremony in the year 2016. Moreover, as recognition to operate our business as a sustainable industry, we were awarded with the Merit Award for Industrial Excellence, in the National Level Manufacturing Sector under the Extra-Large Category, at the CNCI Achiever Awards ceremony in 2019. Furthermore, as a result of our continuous marketing efforts, we were rewarded with the Highest Foreign Exchange Earner Award for Chemical and Paints Products Sector, at the Presidential Export Awards ceremony in 2018 and also with the Best Exporter Award for Chemical and Paints Products Sector, at the Presidential Export Awards ceremony in 2019. We are a signatory for United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and also a member of the Lanka Responsible Care Council. Registering and taking part in the National Green Reporting System (NGRS) and the UNGC Communication on Progress (COP) Reporting System spells out the company’s commitment to human rights, occupational health and safety (OHS), resource productivity and environmental and social sustainability. UNGC COP Report 2019 Page 1 of 54 S & D CHEMICALS (PVT) LTD For a sustainable future …. I am pleased to confirm that S & D CHEMICALS (PVT) LTD reaffirms its support to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) as well as the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this, our third annual Communication on Progress report, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Yours sincerely, Dayantha De Silva Managing Director UNGC COP Report 2019 Page 2 of 54 S & D CHEMICALS (PVT) LTD For a sustainable future …. DESCRIPTION OF ACTIONS A summary of the actions that were undertaken and are to be taken, thereby reaffirming our support to the SDGs and correspondingly the Ten Principles under the UNGC in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption are shown below in Table 1: Table 1: Summary of the commitments made and plans that are to be made by S & D Chemicals. CATEGORY CONTRIBUTING SDG COMMITMENTS FUTURE PLANS HUMAN SDG 3: ✓ A 100% healthy workforce and a safer ✓ A 100% healthy workforce and a safer RIGHTS GOOD HEALTH AND environment were ensured to be environment is further ensured to be WELL-BEING maintained. Appropriate training maintained. More appropriate training Ensure healthy lives programs and health checkups for programs as well as appropriate health and promote welleach personnel were conducted. This checkups for each of the respective being for all at all was to promote the awareness personnel are to be conducted on an ages amongst the employees on OHS as well annual basis. as to monitor the health and well-being of all employees. ✓ Implementation of standard industrial practices such as the colour coding of ✓ A 100% fire safe environment was pipelines are to be considered. ensured to be maintained by implementing an earth pit monitoring ✓ Installation of a water sprinkle system in system. the flammable material storage section is to be considered to ensure a 100% ✓ Accidents and near misses were fire safe environment. ensured to be minimized. ✓ A new building is to be constructed within the factory premises, as a rest UNGC COP Report 2019 Page 3 of 54 S & D CHEMICALS (PVT) LTD For a sustainable future …. CATEGORY CONTRIBUTING SDG COMMITMENTS FUTURE PLANS ✓ 100% performance on OHS compliance room area for the employees, which within both the facility and the would improve the overall physical and surroundings was ensured. hence the mental well-being of the employees. ✓ Continue to meet 100% performance on OHS compliance within both the facility and the surroundings. HUMAN SDG 6: ✓ Numerous amenities were provided to ✓ An additional washroom is to be RIGHTS CLEAN WATER AND employees such as all necessary constructed for those workers reporting SANITATION sanitary conveniences, which includes to the factory from external companies Ensure availability adequate number of washrooms and to carry out relevant work at the and sustainable changing rooms separately for men factory premises. management of and women as well as the supply of water and sanitation fresh drinking water. for all LABOUR SDG 5: ✓ All employees are secured and GENDER EQUALITY shielded from discrimination based on Achieve gender gender. equality and empower all women and girls UNGC COP Report 2019 Page 4 of 54 S & D CHEMICALS (PVT) LTD For a sustainable future …. CATEGORY CONTRIBUTING SDG COMMITMENTS FUTURE PLANS ✓ All amenities provided are for all employees may they be men or women. LABOUR SDG 8: ✓ Through company written policies, ✓ Measures will be taken to continuously DECENT WORK AND employee rights of individuals are monitor our compliance with existing ECONOMIC ensured to be respected and laws and regulations. Moreover, newly GROWTH protected in the highest possible way. laid laws and regulations that should be Promote sustained, complied with in relation to employee inclusive and ✓ We protect the rights of freedom of rights will be investigated and sustainable association and employee interests implemented. economic growth, including negotiating salaries, benefits full and productive and other conditions of work. employment and ✓ We are committed to eliminating child decent work for all labour exploitation and we ensure there is no use of forced labour including forms of slavery, debt bondage and human trafficking. ENVIRONSDG 3: ✓ Appropriate training programs were ✓ More appropriate training programs MENT GOOD HEALTH AND conducted, to promote awareness are to be conducted on an annual WELL-BEING amongst the employees on basis to further promote awareness Ensure healthy lives environment. and promote wellUNGC COP Report 2019 Page 5 of 54 S & D CHEMICALS (PVT) LTD For a sustainable future …. CATEGORY CONTRIBUTING SDG COMMITMENTS FUTURE PLANS being for all at all amongst the employees on ages environment. ✓ The lock and key mechanism is to be implemented at the entrance of the Susceptible Material store, to ensure that only authorized personnel are allowed to enter and hence to prevent unwanted accidents from occurring due to the improper handling of hazardous chemicals available in the facility. ✓ A roof is to be constructed at the loading and unloading area, which would allow the respective personnel to carry out their tasks with ease, even during the rainy season. ENVIRONSDG 6: ✓ Administrative controls were proposed MENT CLEAN WATER AND and developed on the proper usage of SANITATION fresh water. Ensure availability and sustainable ✓ Treated wastewater was recycled for management of flushing purposes to reduce the volume UNGC COP Report 2019 Page 6 of 54 S & D CHEMICALS (PVT) LTD For a sustainable future …. CATEGORY CONTRIBUTING SDG COMMITMENTS FUTURE PLANS water and sanitation of fresh water consumption at the for all facility. ENVIRONSDG 7: ✓ Solar garden lights were installed to MENT AFFORDABLE AND reduce the total number of energy CLEAN ENERGY units. Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all SDG 9: ✓ Constantly developed sustainable ✓ Continue to constantly develop INDUSTRY, solutions, which are flexible, costsustainable solutions, which are flexible, INNOVATION AND efficient and eco-friendly for customers cost-efficient and eco-friendly for INFRASTRUCTURE involved in the textile value chain. customers involved in the textile value Build resilient chain. infrastructure, ✓ Takes care of both the regulatory promote inclusive requirements in their target markets ✓ Preparations are to be made for and sustainable and also the prevailing trends relating upgradation of the in-house laboratory industrialization and to health, safety and sustainability, certification in accordance with foster innovation through process optimization, ecoISO/IEC 17025:2017. efficient products and solutions, quality UNGC COP Report 2019 Page 7 of 54 S & D CHEMICALS (PVT) LTD For a sustainable future …. CATEGORY CONTRIBUTING SDG COMMITMENTS FUTURE PLANS assurance and introducing innovative effects and functions. ✓ Certification of the in-house laboratory in accordance with ISO/IEC 17025:2005 was obtained. ENVIRONSDG 12: ✓ Several measures were taken to reduce ✓ Several measures are to be taken to MENT RESPONSIBLE the cost of electricity consumption at further control and monitor air emissions CONSUMPTION AND the facility. to the environment and within the PRODUCTION facility and also to reduce the Ensure sustainable ✓ Various measures were also taken to hazardous waste produced at the consumption and control and monitor air emissions to the facility. production patterns environment and within the facility. ✓ Continue to meet 100% performance ✓ Several measures were taken to reduce on environmental compliance within hazardous waste produced at the both the facility and the surroundings. facility. ✓ 100% performance on environmental compliance within both the facility and the surroundings was ensured. UNGC COP Report 2019 Page 8 of 54 S & D CHEMICALS (PVT) LTD For a sustainable future …. CATEGORY CONTRIBUTING SDG COMMITMENTS FUTURE PLANS ENVIRONSDG 14: ✓ 100% performance on environmental ✓ Continue to meet 100% performance MENT LIFE BELOW WATER compliance within both the facility and on environmental compliance within Conserve and the surroundings was ensured. both the facility and the surroundings. sustainably use the oceans, seas and marine resources for sustainable development ANTISDG 16: ✓ Through company written policies, ✓ We will ensure that all our employees CORRUPTION PEACE, JUSTICE AND procedures and continuous monitoring are committed to observe and uphold STRONG systems, which comply with applicable the zero-tolerance position on bribery INSTITUITIONS local and international anti-corruption and corruption. Promote peaceful laws, corruption in any form including and inclusive bribery was ensured to be avoided. societies for sustainable development, provide access to justice for all and build effective, accountable and UNGC COP Report 2019 Page 9 of 54 S & D CHEMICALS (PVT) LTD For a sustainable future …. CATEGORY CONTRIBUTING SDG COMMITMENTS FUTURE PLANS inclusive institutions at all levels UNGC COP Report 2019 Page 10 of 54 S & D CHEMICALS (PVT) LTD For a sustainable future …. HUMAN RIGHTS UNGC PRINCIPLES Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses OUR SDG CONTRIBUTIONS SDG 3: GOOD HEALTH AND WELL-BEING Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages SDG 6: CLEAN WATER AND SANITATION Ensure availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation for all UNGC COP Report 2019 Page 11 of 54 S & D CHEMICALS (PVT) LTD For a sustainable future …. OUR COMMITMENTS We maintain a 100% healthy workforce and a safer environment without violating any locally and internationally proclaimed human rights. Appropriate training programs were conducted for respective personnel to promote awareness amongst the employees on OHS. These include: • Chemical Safety & PPE (Personal Protective Equipment) Usage • Proper Usage of Breathing Apparatus • Advance Firefighting • Emergency Evacuation Drill • Emergency Evacuation Night Drill • Preliminary First-aid Course Phase 1 • Occupational Health & Safety • Food Safety & Personal Hygiene • Boiler Safety Operation & Maintenance • Safe Operation & Maintenance of Forklifts • Chemical Transportation & Road Safety Moreover, to monitor the health and well-being of all, appropriate health checkups for each personnel were conducted. A 100% fire safe environment was ensured to be maintained by implementing an earth pit monitoring system, to monitor lightning protection and whether the earth systems work in accordance with the specifications. Hence, this would also safeguard the employees from getting electrocuted by machineries, due to earth leakages. Moreover, an additional 10,000 litres tank to store water, was connected to the existing interconnected tank system to enhance in-house fire protection. Hence, the existing onsite water storage capacity of 80,000 litres was increased to a total of 90,000 litres. The fire certification is also renewed on an annual basis by the Board of Investment (BOI) of Sri Lanka. Accidents and near misses were ensured to be minimized or prevented by recording, analyzing and taking appropriate corrective measures for past incidents. Through company written policies, procedures and continuous monitoring systems, which comply with applicable local and international laws and regulations, we ensure that 100% performance on OHS compliance within both the facility and the surroundings are met with. UNGC COP Report 2019 Page 12 of 54 S & D CHEMICALS (PVT) LTD For a sustainable future …. 100% performance on OHS compliance within both the facility and the surroundings were ensured to be maintained by: 1. Commissioning an accredited third-party organization on an annual basis to measure and analyze occupational exposure levels, which include: • thermal discomfort (based on humidity and temperature), • light intensity, • noise levels, • respirable dust levels and • Volatile Organic Compound (VOC) emissions. 2. Providing the following amenities as appropriate to the employees, which complies with Factory Ordinance No. 45 of 1942: • a hygienic working environment, • ample cubical spacing, which prevents overcrowding, • acceptable temperature, ventilation and lighting, • adequate sanitary conveniences that includes: o adequate number of washrooms and changing rooms separately for men and women, o a hygienic canteen area, o supply of fresh drinking water and o supply of all essential PPE at all times. • medical supervision which includes supply of all essential first-aid by a responsible trained person and • supply of safety provisions in case of a fire. 3. Maintaining certification of the company in accordance with globally approved standards such as ISO 45001:2018. UNGC COP Report 2019 Page 13 of 54 S & D CHEMICALS (PVT) LTD For a sustainable future …. OUR FUTURE SDG CONTRIBUTION PLANS SDG 3: GOOD HEALTH AND WELL-BEING Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages SDG 6: CLEAN WATER AND SANITATION Ensure availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation for all OUR FUTURE PLANS We further aim to maintain a 100% healthy workforce and a safer environment without violating any locally and internationally proclaimed human rights. More appropriate training programs are to be conducted for respective personnel to further promote awareness amongst the employees on OHS. These include: • Safe Housekeeping & Accident Prevention • Hazard Communication & Safety Management • Safe Operation & Maintenance of Material Handling Equipment • Safe Operation & Maintenance of Diesel Generators • Safe Operation & Maintenance of Forklift Trucks Moreover, to ensure the well-being of all, appropriate health checkups for each personnel are to be carried out on an annual basis. The implementation of standard industrial practices such as the colour coding of pipelines are to be evaluated. A 100% fire safe environment is further ensured to be maintained by the installation of a water sprinkle system, in the flammable material storage section of the facility. In addition, a 10,000 litres tank to store water, is to be connected to the existing interconnected tank system to enhance in-house fire protection. This would then increase the existing onsite water storage capacity of 90,000 litres to a total of 100,000 litres. UNGC COP Report 2019 Page 14 of 54 S & D CHEMICALS (PVT) LTD For a sustainable future …. A new building is to be constructed within the factory premises, as a rest room area for the employees. This would further improve the overall physical and hence the mental well-being of the employees, which would enhance their performance as well as the quality of work. An additional washroom is also to be constructed for those workers reporting to the factory from external companies to carry out relevant work at the factory premises. Moreover, a warehouse is to be constructed to store raw materials, which would allow more space in the factory premises for production activities to be carried out as well as an improved working environment for the employees. Furthermore, an additional security personnel is to be employed so as to further enhance the security of the employees working within the facility. 100% performance on OHS compliance within both the facility and the surroundings will be ensured to be continuously met with. UNGC COP Report 2019 Page 15 of 54 S & D CHEMICALS (PVT) LTD For a sustainable future …. LABOUR UNGC PRINCIPLES Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation UNGC COP Report 2019 Page 16 of 54 S & D CHEMICALS (PVT) LTD For a sustainable future …. OUR SDG CONTRIBUTIONS SDG 5: GENDER EQUALITY Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls SDG 8: DECENT WORK AND ECONOMIC GROWTH Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all OUR COMMITMENTS Through company written policies, procedures and continuous monitoring systems, employee rights of individuals are ensured to be respected and protected in the highest possible way. To begin with, employees are secured and shielded from discrimination based on race, caste, gender, religion, sexual orientation and age. We protect the rights of freedom of association and employee interests including negotiating salaries, benefits and other conditions of work. We are committed to eliminating child labour exploitation and ensuring there is no use of forced labour including forms of slavery, debt bondage and human trafficking. The following amenities are ensured to be provided as appropriate to all employees, which complies with Wage Board Ordinance No. 27 of 1941: • Payment of wages, which are well above the minimum wage standards that complies with the National Minimum Wage of Workers Act, No. 3 of 2016 and the Budgetary Relief Allowance of Workers Act, No. 4 of 2016. • Payment of Employees' Provident Fund (EPF) and Employees' Trust Fund (ETF) which complies with the EPF Act, No. 15 of 1958 and the ETF Act, No. 46 of 1980 respectively. • Standard hours of employment. • Payment of attractive remunerations for overtime employment and those carried out on holidays. • Standard leave entitlements (annual, casual, medical and maternity). • All mercantile holidays. UNGC COP Report 2019 Page 17 of 54 S & D CHEMICALS (PVT) LTD For a sustainable future …. OUR FUTURE SDG CONTRIBUTION PLANS SDG 8: DECENT WORK AND ECONOMIC GROWTH Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all OUR FUTURE PLANS Measures will be taken to continuously monitor our compliance with existing laws and regulations. Moreover, newly laid laws and regulations that should be complied with in relation to employee rights will be investigated and implemented. UNGC COP Report 2019 Page 18 of 54 S & D CHEMICALS (PVT) LTD For a sustainable future …. ENVIRONMENT UNGC PRINCIPLES Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies UNGC COP Report 2019 Page 19 of 54 S & D CHEMICALS (PVT) LTD For a sustainable future …. OUR SDG CONTRIBUTIONS SDG 3: GOOD HEALTH AND WELL-BEING Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages SDG 6: CLEAN WATER AND SANITATION Ensure availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation for all SDG 7: AFFORDABLE AND CLEAN ENERGY Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all SDG 9: INDUSTRY, INNOVATION AND INFRASTRUCTURE Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable industrialization and foster innovation SDG 12: RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns SDG 14: LIFE BELOW WATER Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas and marine resources for sustainable development UNGC COP Report 2019 Page 20 of 54 S & D CHEMICALS (PVT) LTD For a sustainable future …. OUR COMMITMENTS The actions that were undertaken in this category are further divided into subcategories namely, energy, water, emissions, general and innovations. The details of the actions undertaken are described in detail in each of these individual subcategories. ENERGY To begin with several measures were taken to reduce the cost of electricity consumption by: 1. Reducing the total number of energy units used by the installation of solar garden lights. 2. Reducing peak demands by proposing and developing administrative instructions to precisely schedule the usage of the general electrical units such as lights, fans, air conditioning units and photocopiers in the facility according to a predetermined time interval. UNGC COP Report 2019 Page 21 of 54 S & D CHEMICALS (PVT) LTD For a sustainable future …. WATER Measures were taken to reduce the total volume of fresh water consumption such as the recycling of treated wastewater for flushing and gardening purposes. Moreover, administrative controls were proposed and developed on the proper usage of fresh water. UNGC COP Report 2019 Page 22 of 54 S & D CHEMICALS (PVT) LTD For a sustainable future …. EMISSIONS Various measures were undertaken to carefully control and monitor air emissions to the environment and within the facility, which is mandatory to maintain a clean and pollution-free environment, thereby ensuring the sustainable operation of the facility. An exhaust air scrubbing mechanism was implemented in the laboratory, to aid in the prevention of the release of noxious emissions to the environment (ground level) and therefore, to prevent the employees from being exposed to such noxious emissions at the workplace. Several measures were taken to reduce the hazardous waste produced at the facility by: 1. Installing a second filter press to minimize the amount of chemical sludge generated at the facility. 2. Minimizing the amount of PPE waste generated at the facility through promoting awareness amongst the employees by conducting appropriate training programs, to educate them on the re-use of relevant materials that could be re-used over an extended period of time. UNGC COP Report 2019 Page 23 of 54 S & D CHEMICALS (PVT) LTD For a sustainable future …. GENERAL Appropriate training programs were conducted for respective personnel to promote awareness amongst the employees on Environment. These include: • Sustainable Environment Management Certification of the in-house laboratory in accordance with globally approved standards such as ISO/IEC 17025:2005 was obtained. Through company written policies, procedures and continuous monitoring systems, which comply with applicable local and international laws and regulations, we ensure that 100% performance on environmental compliance within both the facility and the surroundings are met with. UNGC COP Report 2019 Page 24 of 54 S & D CHEMICALS (PVT) LTD For a sustainable future …. 100% performance on environmental compliance within both the facility and the surroundings was ensured to be maintained by: 1. Commissioning an accredited third-party organization on an annual basis to measure and analyze emissions to the environment, which include: • wastewater quality, • ambient air quality, • stack emissions and • boundary noise levels. 2. Complying to the regulations enforced by the National Environmental Act, No. 47 of 1980 and the BOI. 3. Maintaining certification of the company in accordance with globally approved standards such as ISO 14001:2015. We were also able to achieve bluesign® approval for 150 identified individual products and GOTS approval for 40 identified individual products, manufactured at S & D Chemicals. UNGC COP Report 2019 Page 25 of 54 S & D CHEMICALS (PVT) LTD For a sustainable future …. OUR INNOVATIONS UNGC COP Report 2019 Page 26 of 54 S & D CHEMICALS (PVT) LTD For a sustainable future …. S & D is a proven partner for customers involved in the textile value chain and is constantly developing sustainable solutions for the future that are flexible, cost-efficient and eco-friendly. We always take care of both the regulatory requirements in their target markets and also the prevailing trends relating to health, safety and sustainability, through process optimization, eco-efficient products and solutions, quality assurance and by the introduction of innovative effects and functions. Though conventional processes are extremely used nowadays, they pose a measurable negative impact on the environment due to the increased consumption of water and energy. Therefore, it is clear that these processes need to be improved considerably in order to meet today's energy and environmental demands. Therefore, we, S & D Chemicals (Pvt) Ltd innovate specially developed formulations, which are listed below in Table 2 that emerges as the best alternatives to the otherwise lesser ecofriendly conventional processes. Table 2: Specially developed eco-friendly formulations. Product Name Application Scourzyme TXP Biological Enzymatic Scouring Process Lanzene Cellu Cross N Sustainable Enzyme Process Biozep Combi L Sustainable Dyebath Enzyme Process Lanzene Maxi OV2 Stone Free Enzyme Process Turbo Bleach H5 Sustainable Bleaching Process Sapanol LP7 Low Temperature Soaping Process Biopolimer PC1 Hazard Free Neutralizer UNGC COP Report 2019 Page 27 of 54 S & D CHEMICALS (PVT) LTD For a sustainable future …. UNGC COP Report 2019 Page 28 of 54 S & D CHEMICALS (PVT) LTD For a sustainable future …. SCOURZYME TXP – BIOLOGICAL ENZYMATIC SCOURING PROCESS The bioscouring process emerges as the best ecofriendly alternative to the conventional, polluting caustic scouring process. Scourzyme TXP, a product formulated by S & D, is a bioscouring system that uses a specially developed enzyme formulation, based on pectinase to removes waxes, pectins, sizes and other impurities on the surface of the fabric. Pectate lyase degrades the pectin from the primary cell wall of cotton without degrading the cotton itself. Research has shown that pectin acts like glue between the fibre core and the waxes, but that it can be removed by an alkaline pectate lyase, making the residual waxes easy to eradicate in the subsequent hot rinse. As shown below in Figure 1, the conventional process is a 6-stage process where the scouring and the acid biopolishing process take place separately in 2 stages. However, as shown below in Figure 2, the bioscouring process is a 4-stage process, where the scouring and the acid biopolishing process is now combined into one single stage. Alkaline scouring is a process that uses high concentrations of NaOH and also requires the neutralization of wastewater. Even though alkaline scouring is eﬀective and the costs of NaOH are low, this conventional scouring process is rather inefficient as it consumes large quantities of water and energy. Figure 1: Working mechanism of the conventional process. UNGC COP Report 2019 Page 29 of 54 S & D CHEMICALS (PVT) LTD For a sustainable future …. Figure 2: Working mechanism of the bioscouring process. The Scourzyme TXP system has many advantages in comparison to the conventional alkaline scouring method and these are shown below in Table 3 and Figure 3. Table 3: Comparison of features between the conventional process and the Scourzyme TXP bioscouring process. Parameter Conventional Alkaline Scouring Process Scourzyme TXP Bioscouring Process Saving (%) BOD, COD and TDS of Effluent High (due to use of many harsh chemicals) Low 30 – 45 Loss of Fabric Strength High (due to use of many harsh chemicals) Significantly Less Weight Loss Significantly High Less atleast 2 Surface Less Smooth Smooth due to presence of pectin in fibres Addition of Final Softener High Low 25 – 40 Running Temperature (°C) 95 – 100 60 Water Consumption (m3) 0.05 0.01 80 Energy Consumption (kWh) 2.78 1.64 41 Labour (h) 2.78 1.64 41 Chemicals (kg) 6.57 1.85 72 Process Time (min) 180 50 72 UNGC COP Report 2019 Page 30 of 54 S & D CHEMICALS (PVT) LTD For a sustainable future …. 0.06 3 2.78 7 6.57 200 180 180 0.05 6 0.05 2.5 160 5 140 0.04 2 1.64 120 4 m3 0.03 kWh 1.5 kg min 100 3 80 0.02 1 1.85 2 60 50 0.01 40 0.01 0.5 1 20 0 0 0 0 Water Energy Chemicals Process Time Conventional Process Conventional Process Conventional Process Conventional Process Bioscouring Process Bioscouring Process Bioscouring Process Bioscouring Process Figure 3: Graphical comparison of features between the conventional process and the bioscouring process. UNGC COP Report 2019 Page 31 of 54 S & D CHEMICALS (PVT) LTD For a sustainable future …. UNGC COP Report 2019 Page 32 of 54 S & D CHEMICALS (PVT) LTD For a sustainable future …. LANZENE CELLU CROSS N SUSTAINABLE ENZYME PROCESS This combination process is a sustainable enzyme process that emerges as the best ecofriendly alternative to the conventional process. Lanzene Cellu Cross N, a product formulated by S & D, is a combination process, which is a sustainable enzyme system that uses a specially developed enzyme formulation. As shown below in Figure 4, the conventional process is a 4-stage process where the desizing and the enzyme processes take place separately in 2 stages followed by rinsing in both these individual stages. However, as shown below in Figure 5, the combination process is a 2-stage process, where the desizing and the enzyme process is now combined into one single stage followed by rinsing. Even though the conventional process is eﬀective, it is rather inefficient as it consumes large quantities of water and energy. Figure 4: Working mechanism of the conventional process. Figure 5: Working mechanism of the combination process. UNGC COP Report 2019 Page 33 of 54 S & D CHEMICALS (PVT) LTD For a sustainable future …. The Lanzene Cellu Cross N enzyme system has many advantages in comparison to the conventional process and these are shown below in Table 4 and Figure 6. Table 4: Comparison of features between the conventional process and the combination process. Parameter Conventional Process Lanzene Cellu Cross N Combination Process Saving % Time (min) 83 55 28 33.73 Water (m3) 2.9 1.4 1.5 51.72 Electricity (kWh) 63.63 42.17 21.47 33.73 Steam (ton) 0.085 0.032 0.052 61.74 90 3.5 70 0.09 83 63.63 0.085 80 2.9 0.08 3 60 70 0.07 2.5 50 60 55 42.17 0.06 50 2 40 0.05 min m3 kWh ton 40 1.4 0.04 1.5 30 0.032 30 0.03 1 20 20 0.02 0.5 10 10 0.01 0 0 0 0 Time Water Electricity Steam Conventional Process Conventional Process Conventional Process Conventional Process Combination Process Combination Process Combination Process Combination Process Figure 6: Graphical comparison of features between the conventional process and the combination process. UNGC COP Report 2019 Page 34 of 54 S & D CHEMICALS (PVT) LTD For a sustainable future …. UNGC COP Report 2019 Page 35 of 54 S & D CHEMICALS (PVT) LTD For a sustainable future …. BIOZEP COMBI L SUSTAINABLE DYEBATH ENZYME PROCESS This combination process is a sustainable dyebath enzyme process that emerges as the best ecofriendly alternative to the conventional process. Biozep Combi L, a product formulated by S & D, is a combination process, which is a sustainable dyebath enzyme system that uses a specially developed enzyme formulation. As shown below in Figure 7, the conventional process is a 5-stage process. However, as shown below in Figure 8 the combination process is a single stage process, where the dyeing and the biopolishing processes are now combined into a single stage. Even though the conventional process is eﬀective, it is rather inefficient as it consumes large quantities of water and energy. Figure 7: Working mechanism of the conventional dyebath enzyme process. Figure 8: Working mechanism of the combination process. UNGC COP Report 2019 Page 36 of 54 S & D CHEMICALS (PVT) LTD For a sustainable future …. The Biozep Combi L dyebath enzyme system has many advantages in comparison to the conventional process and these are shown below in Table 5 and Figure 9. Table 5: Comparison of features between the conventional process and the combination process. Parameter Conventional Process Biozep Combi L Combination Process Saving % Water (m3) 4.0 1.0 3.0 75 Electricity (kWh) 2.92 1.75 1.17 40 Steam (ton) 0.77 0.29 0.48 62 Catalase (kg) 0.50 0.00 0.50 100 4.5 3.5 0.9 0.6 4.0 4.0 0.8 0.77 2.92 0.5 3 0.5 3.5 0.7 2.5 3.0 0.6 0.4 2.5 2 0.5 m3 1.75 kWh ton kg 0.3 2.0 1.5 0.4 0.29 1.5 0.3 0.2 1.0 1 1.0 0.2 0.5 0.1 0.5 0.1 0 0.0 0 0 0 Water Electricity Steam Catalase Conventional Process Conventional Process Conventional Process Conventional Process Combination Process Combination Process Combination Process Combination Process Figure 9: Graphical comparison of features between the conventional process and the combination process. UNGC COP Report 2019 Page 37 of 54 S & D CHEMICALS (PVT) LTD For a sustainable future …. UNGC COP Report 2019 Page 38 of 54 S & D CHEMICALS (PVT) LTD For a sustainable future …. LANZENE MAXI OV2 – STONE FREE ENZYME PROCESS This combination process is a stone free enzyme process that emerges as the best ecofriendly alternative to the conventional process. Lanzene Maxi OV2, a product formulated by S & D, is a sustainable stone free enzyme system that uses a specially developed enzyme formulation. The Lanzene Maxi OV2 stone free enzyme system has many advantages in comparison to the conventional process and the differences are shown below in Figure 10 and Figure 11. time consumption over 30 minutes per time saving load in stone no huge loading and storage unloading metal free space stones should needed not belong to machine the washing damages plant no huge Conventional stone Lanzene better Process disposal Maxi OV2 workplace issues stone waste noise in effluent pollution less load to no noise garment the effluent pollution damages, high fabric stone patches perforand stone mance and residuals on no button garments rivet damage Figure 10: Drawbacks of the conventional process. Figure 11: Advantages of the Lanzene Maxi OV2 process. UNGC COP Report 2019 Page 39 of 54 S & D CHEMICALS (PVT) LTD For a sustainable future …. UNGC COP Report 2019 Page 40 of 54 S & D CHEMICALS (PVT) LTD For a sustainable future …. TURBO BLEACH H5 SUSTAINABLE BLEACHING PROCESS This is a sustainable bleaching process that emerges as the best ecofriendly alternative to the conventional process. Turbo Bleach H5, a product formulated by S & D, is a sustainable bleaching system that uses a specially developed formulation. As shown below in Figure 12, the conventional process is compared to the turbo bleach process. Even though the conventional process is eﬀective, it is rather inefficient as it consumes large quantities of energy and caustic. The Turbo Bleach H5 bleaching system has many advantages in comparison to the conventional process and these are shown below in Figure 13. strength retention smoother Turbo energy surface Bleach H5 saving caustic reduction Figure 12: Working mechanism of the conventional and the Figure 13: Advantages of the Turbo Bleach H5 sustainable bleaching sustainable bleaching processes. process. UNGC COP Report 2019 Page 41 of 54 S & D CHEMICALS (PVT) LTD For a sustainable future …. UNGC COP Report 2019 Page 42 of 54 S & D CHEMICALS (PVT) LTD For a sustainable future …. SAPANOL LP7 – LOW TEMPERATURE SOAPING PROCESS This is a sustainable low temperature soaping process that emerges as the best ecofriendly alternative to the conventional process. Sapanol LP7, a product formulated by S & D, is a sustainable low temperature soaping system that uses a specially developed formulation. As shown below in Figure 14, the conventional process is a 6-stage process in comparison to the sustainable low temperature soaping process shown in Figure 15, which is a 4-stage process. Figure 14: Working mechanism of the conventional soaping process. Figure 15: Working mechanism of the Sapanol LP7 sustainable low temperature soaping process. UNGC COP Report 2019 Page 43 of 54 S & D CHEMICALS (PVT) LTD For a sustainable future …. The Sapanol LP7 low temperature soaping system has many advantages in comparison to the conventional process and these are shown below in Figure 16. time saving eco-friendly Sapanol LP7 energy saving low temperature Figure 16: Advantages of the Sapanol LP7 sustainable low temperature soaping process. UNGC COP Report 2019 Page 44 of 54 S & D CHEMICALS (PVT) LTD For a sustainable future …. UNGC COP Report 2019 Page 45 of 54 S & D CHEMICALS (PVT) LTD For a sustainable future …. BIOPOLIMER PC1 – HAZARD FREE NEUTRALIZER Biopolimer PC1 has many advantages including being non-hazardous and completely biodegradable, in comparison to the conventional neutralizers and these are shown below in Table 6. Table 6: Comparison of features between the conventional neutralizers and Biopolimer PC1. Metabisulfite Hydroxyl Amine Biopolimer PC1 Hazards Non-Hazardous Biodegradability Readily biodegradable Not readily biodegradable 100% biodegradable Odour Pungent Odourless Odourless PP Neutralization    Chlorite Bleach Neutralization    Surface Cleanliness ++ +++ +++ UNGC COP Report 2019 Page 46 of 54 S & D CHEMICALS (PVT) LTD For a sustainable future …. OUR FUTURE SDG CONTRIBUTION PLANS SDG 3: GOOD HEALTH AND WELL-BEING Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages SDG 9: INDUSTRY, INNOVATION AND INFRASTRUCTURE Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable industrialization and foster innovation SDG 12: RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns SDG 14: LIFE BELOW WATER Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas and marine resources for sustainable development OUR FUTURE PLANS More appropriate training programs are to be conducted for respective personnel to further promote awareness amongst the employees on Environment. These include: • Operation of the Effluent Treatment Plant (ETP) for a Sustainable Environment An exhaust system is to be installed for the weighing point at the Raw Material Storage Area, to further aid in the prevention of the release of noxious emissions to the environment (ground level). A third filter press is to be installed, to further minimize the amount of chemical sludge generated at the facility. UNGC COP Report 2019 Page 47 of 54 S & D CHEMICALS (PVT) LTD For a sustainable future …. Research and development is to be carried out on filtration improvement techniques of the filter press to minimize the amount of time taken to perform the filtration. An under-lock steel room is to be constructed to store license items (raw materials) and the lock and key mechanism is to be implemented at the entrance of the Susceptible Material store, which would ensure that only authorized personnel are allowed to enter to these respective areas. Thus, this would ensure unwanted accidents do not occur due to the improper handling of hazardous chemicals available in the facility. A roof is to be constructed at the loading and unloading area, which would allow the relevant tasks to be carried out by the respective personnel with ease, even during the rainy season. Preparations are to be made for upgradation of the in-house laboratory certification in accordance with ISO/IEC 17025:2017. 100% performance on environmental compliance within both the facility and the surroundings will be ensured to be continuously met with. Sustainable solutions will be constantly developed, which are flexible, cost-efficient and ecofriendly for customers involved in the textile value chain. By the end of next year, we aim to obtain bluesign® approval for a total of 160 identified individual products and GOTS approval for a total of 50 identified individual products, manufactured at S & D Chemicals. UNGC COP Report 2019 Page 48 of 54 S & D CHEMICALS (PVT) LTD For a sustainable future …. ANTI-CORRUPTION UNGC PRINCIPLES Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery OUR SDG CONTRIBUTIONS SDG 16: PEACE, JUSTICE AND STRONG INSTITUITIONS Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable development, provide access to justice for all and build effective, accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels UNGC COP Report 2019 Page 49 of 54 S & D CHEMICALS (PVT) LTD For a sustainable future …. OUR COMMITMENTS Through company written policies, procedures and continuous monitoring systems, which comply with applicable local and international anti-corruption laws, we ensure that corruption in any form including bribery is avoided. S & D Chemicals is committed to conduct its businesses professionally, honestly and with accountability, trustworthiness and integrity in all dealings wherever we operate. Our policy exists to set out the responsibilities of S & D Chemicals and those who work for us to observe and uphold the zero-tolerance position on bribery and corruption. S & D Chemicals ensures that bribery and corruption in any form (offering, giving, promising, asking, agreeing, receiving, accepting, or soliciting something of value or of an advantage so as to induce or influence an action or decision) is eradicated. In addition, we ensure to keep records of all payments to reflect transparency in all transactions. This policy applies equally to employees at all levels. S & D Chemicals will take proper legal and disciplinary action against all employees and third parties who violate the anti-bribery and anti-corruption policy. OUR FUTURE SDG CONTRIBUTION PLANS SDG 16: PEACE, JUSTICE AND STRONG INSTITUITIONS Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable development, provide access to justice for all and build effective, accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels OUR FUTURE PLANS We will ensure that all our employees are committed to observe and uphold the zerotolerance position on bribery and corruption. The anti-bribery and anti-corruption clause will be incorporated into our latest Employment Letter format for all new recruits. For existing employees, a written declaration letter will be signed by each of the respective personnel, agreeing that they are committed to abide to our anti-bribery and anti-corruption policy. UNGC COP Report 2019 Page 50 of 54 S & D CHEMICALS (PVT) LTD For a sustainable future …. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES HUMAN RIGHTS The training programs that were conducted for respective personnel to promote awareness amongst the employees on OHS are shown below in Table 7. Table 7: List of training programs participated by respective personnel in 2019. Type of Training Employee Category Duration Conducted on Conducted by Chemical Safety & PPE (Personal Protective Equipment) All staff 3 hours 11h March External Usage Proper Usage of Breathing Apparatus All staff 1 hour 15 29th January External minutes Advance Firefighting Fire team members 4 hours 19th March External Emergency Evacuation Drill All staff 3 minutes 19th March External Emergency Evacuation Night Drill All staff 25 minutes 23rd October Internal Preliminary First-aid Course Phase 1 Staff members from stores, 1 day 31st August External production, transport and office departments Occupational Health & Safety All staff 1.5 hours 29th May External Food Safety & Personal Hygiene Staff members from stores, 3 hours 17th June External production and transport departments Boiler Safety Operation & Maintenance Maintenance staff 1 day 2nd March External Safe Operation & Maintenance of Forklifts Drivers 1 day 30th June External Chemical Transportation & Road Safety Drivers and helpers 3 hours 26th October External Sustainable Environment Management All staff 1.5 hours 13th August Internal UNGC COP Report 2019 Page 51 of 54 S & D CHEMICALS (PVT) LTD For a sustainable future …. LABOUR The total workforce in accordance with age is shown below in Table 8: Table 8: Staff breakdown by age (as at 31st December 2019). Section Gender Total No. of Age Group Employees 18 < 25 25 < 40 40 < 55 > 55 Directors Male 1 1 Female 1 1 Total 2 2 Marketing Male 2 2 Female Total 2 2 Administration Male 1 1 Female 1 1 Total 2 2 Accounts Male 10 3 7 Female 5 2 3 Total 15 5 10 EHS Male Female 2 2 Total 2 2 Production Male 60 23 29 8 Female 3 1 2 Total 63 24 29 10 Laboratory Male 3 3 Female 4 4 Total 7 7 Stores Male 8 2 3 3 Female Total 8 2 3 3 Maintenance Male 4 4 Female Total 4 4 Transport Male 12 2 7 3 Female Total 12 2 7 3 Total Male 101 30 54 16 1 Female 16 3 10 2 1 Total 117 33 64 18 2 UNGC COP Report 2019 Page 52 of 54 S & D CHEMICALS (PVT) LTD For a sustainable future …. ENVIRONMENT The test results of treated wastewater, which are obtained from an accredited laboratory of a third-party organization are shown below in Table 9: Table 9: Test results of treated wastewater in 2019. Test Unit Treated Maximum Wastewater Tolerance Limits Colour (Spectral Absorption Coefficient), wavelength range 436 nm (Yellow Range) per m 1.4 7 525 nm (Red Range) per m 0.9 5 620 nm (Blue Range) per m 0.6 3 Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD) mg/L 468 600 Oil & Grease mg/L n.d. LOD: 1 30 pH 6.52 at 28.2 °C 6.0 8.5 Total Dissolved Solids (TDS) mg/L 713 2100 Total Suspended Solids (TSS) mg/L 13 500 Total Phosphorus (as P) mg/L 0.09 Total Nitrogen (as N) mg/L n.d. LOD: 5 Kjeldhal Nitrogen (as N) mg/L n.d. LOD: 5 Nitrate (as N) mg/L 2.4 Nitrite (as N) mg/L n.d. LOQ: 0.01 Ammoniacal Nitrogen (as N) mg/L n.d. LOD: 5 50 Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD) mg/L 150 5 days 200 Chloride (as Cl) mg/L 276 900 UNGC COP Report 2019 Page 53 of 54 S & D CHEMICALS (PVT) LTD For a sustainable future …. Test Unit Treated Maximum Wastewater Tolerance Limits Phenolic Compounds (as C6H5OH) mg/L n.d. LOQ: 0.05 5.0 Total Residual Chlorine (as Cl2) mg/L n.d. LOQ: 0.07 Nil Sulphate (as SO4) mg/L 2.5 1000 Sulphide (as S) mg/L n.d. LOD: 1 2 Temperature °C 28.2 40 Cyanide (as CN) mg/L n.d. LOD: 0.04 0.2 Copper (as Cu) mg/L 0.01 3.0 Lead (as Pb) mg/L 0.009 1.0 Arsenic (as As) mg/L 0.02 0.2 Boron (as B) mg/L 0.04 2.0 Cadmium (as Cd) mg/L n.d. LOQ: 0.005 Chromium, Total (as Cr) mg/L 0.02 2.0 Mercury (as Hg) mg/L n.d. LOQ: 0.001 0.001 Nickel (as Ni) mg/L 0.008 3.0 Tin (as Sn) mg/L 0.02 Zinc (as Zn) mg/L 0.37 10 Hexavalent Chromium (as Cr6+) mg/L n.d. LOQ: 0.09 0.5 Abbreviations LOD: Limit of Detection LOQ: Limit of Quantification n.d.: not detected UNGC COP Report 2019 Page 54 of 54
