DLG GROUP – CSR REPORT 2019 Statutory CSR report in accordance with Section 99a of the Danish Financial Statements Act CONTENTS FOREWORD 4 WHAT WE PROMISED IN 2018 – AND WHAT WE ACHIEVED 6 ABOUT DLG 8 HOW WE WORK WITH CSR AT DLG 12 RESPONSIBLE COMPANY 20 RESOURCE EFFICIENCY 38 PEOPLE AT DLG 34 • DIVERSITY 36 • WORKING ENVIRONMENT 44 Seeking a sustainable future for both ourselves and future generations is at the heart of DLG’s social responsibility work FOREWORD In the trendsetting Brundtland Report from 1987, sustainability was defined as “... development that meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs.” This fundamental wish for a sustainable future for both ourselves and future generations is at the heart of DLG’s social responsibility work. We want to deliver sustainable solutions for the world’s most important industry: agriculture. As one of Europe’s largest agricultural companies, DLG plays an important role as both a purchaser and supplier of feed, raw materials, crops and other inputs to the first stage of food production. Together with our energy business, this gives us a central position in the Danish and European agricultural and food cluster. We wish to take the lead and set the course for the industry. This means that, as a company, we take social and environmental responsibility, just as traditions for sustainability and good farming practices are deeply rooted in our business. Our position in the value chain gives us an important role as a supplier of solutions for agriculture – and in optimising our own production and logistics. DLG is convinced that a company’s work with social responsibility must be measured by its concrete actions. DLG has therefore endorsed the UN Global Compact and is working to implement its principles within human rights, labour rights, the environment and anti-corruption in the day-to-day operations of the Group. We are committed to actively communicating the Group’s CSR activities and results in an annual progress report – a Communication on Progress (COP). This is our COP, in which we publish our goals and initiatives for social responsibility. We also describe how we wish to develop in the course of the next year. We are pleased and proud to confirm our continued support for the UN Global Compact. Niels Dengsø Jensen Kristian Hundebøll (Chairman of the Board of Directors) (Group CEO) 4 DLG Group CSR Report 2019 Chairman of the Board of Directors Niels Dengsø Jensen and Group CEO Kristian Hundebøll Sustainability and good farming practices are deeply rooted in our business DLG Group CSR Report 2019 5 WHAT WERE OUR AMBITIONS IN √ The goal was achieved RESPONSIBLE COMPANY ≈ The goal is continued in 2020 √ • Be systematically aware of and expand the risk assessment of unusual companies and offers ÷ The goal was not achieved within the trading area that may indicate activities in conflict with current legislation. √ • Quarterly assessment of our business partners. Here, the social responsibility of our partners is a key element of the assessment. RESOURCE EFFICIENCY √ • Work on formalised management reporting of internal controls and risk management, to ≈ • Qualify the Group’s carbon footprint through ensure that our controls are performed in the data collection, registration of energy right quality and in due time. consumption and model calculations. ≈ • Disseminate DLG Denmark’s implemented ≈ • Reduction of the Group’s movement factor, control monitoring system, so that this is also as well as consistent optimisation of transport anchored in foreign subsidiaries. (tonnes/load and km/tonne). ≈ • Continue to incorporate procedures that •≈ All business units to scale back their primary support DLG’s anti-corruption policy. energy resource by 2%. Each business unit must specify its primary energy resource and ≈ • Anchor DLG’s Supplier Code of Conduct draw up an action plan to achieve the goal. (SCoC) with all strategic procurement officers at DLG. •≈ Systematically implement LEAN principles and LEAN tools at Group level. ÷ • Objective for a minimum of 25% of DLG’s significant suppliers to sign the SCoC. •√ Continue to train the Group’s drivers in climatefriendly driving techniques. ≈ • Deploy SCoC to direct procurement. At least 80% of the procurement volume must be subject to the adopted ethical standards. 6 DLG Group CSR Report 2019 2019 – AND HOW DID WE DO? PEOPLE AT DLG √ • Conduct recruitment and information initiatives •√ Have extra focus on the day-to-day working to elect one owner-elected female member of environment and occupational health and the Board of Directors in the 2020 election. safety during the change process of combining our activities in our new HQ in Fredericia. ≈ • Increase the ratio of female managers, by focusing on our talent identification and •√ Changes to the occupational health and safety development. We will do this by creating a organisation. transparent process and ensuring that our managers are challenged by HR-professionals •√ Greater priority to Group-wide occupational during the selection process and in conjuction health and safety cooperation. with employee development. Across the Group, we will also share our experience and •√ Implement action points in the action plans disseminate the most effective initiatives to identified in workplace evaluations, safety other countries. inspection rounds and registration of near-misses. ≈ • Continue our endeavours to have at least one √ candidate of each gender represented in all • Work with ergonomically optimised solutions to recruitments for managerial and specialist ensure that employees work appropriately and positions. prevent repetitive strain injuries. ≈ • Strengthen our focus on diversity in teams and •√ Establish a system for the management of the unconscious bias in recruitment. We will safety data sheets and workplace user also explore how we can ensure greater instructions. diversity within DLG by also contributing experience from other sectors. •√ Reassess the structure and frequency of the execution of safety inspection rounds, which ≈ • Continue our focus on training and education are currently performed annually. at DLG, and also increase our efforts in countries other than Denmark, e.g. by drawing •√ Register at least 100 near-misses on experience from the Danish certification and training of sales personnel. DLG Group CSR Report 2019 7 WO RL DM T AR K E N CRO TI O PP RO DU C V EG E TABLE P ENER I CE O PS G Y & S ERV R DU O CE & CR I AN M N AL IO NUTRIT DU S IS PR O TIC CT ION & LOG 8 DLG Group CSR Report 2019 ABOUT DLG The DLG Group is one of Europe’s largest agricultural companies, and is a cooperative owned by Danish farmers. From our origins in the local feed associations of the 1890s, and since the formation of DLG in 1969, we are now an international Group with companies in more than 18 countries and revenue of DKK 49 billion in 2019. The Group is owned by 25,000 Danish farmers and exports to 60 countries. Today we have 5,900 employees, including 3,700 in Germany, which is the Group’s largest market. As a Group, we have many different roles. DLG supplies farmers with feed from its own production facilities, together with seed, fertiliser, agricultural lime, crop protection and fuel for day-to-day operations. The DLG Group is also one of Europe’s largest exporters of malting barley, seed corn, feed and milling grain, and rapeseed. Via the Group’s affiliated companies and subsidiaries, DLG is also involved in the processing of vegetable crops, such as rapeseed oil. WE WORK TO: • Procure agricultural products of optimum quality for our members. • Process and sell members’ commercial crops. • Work for the benefit of agriculture in general by ensuring members the best possible production economy via both national and international activities. • Support members with an extensive array of services and tools. DLG Group CSR Report 2019 9 HOW WE WORK WITH CSR AT DLG 10 DLG Group CSR Report 2019 DLG’S CSR POLICY We always strive to ensure the highest quality and safety in our agricultural products and food DLG adopted the UN Global Compact in 2012. Since then, DLG has production; from farm to fork. focused on establishing the internal and external framework necessary to create value from working with the ten principles of We are ambitious in ensuring the Global Compact concerning responsible business activities. responsible value chain management and protecting the Standards In 2014, DLG’s Group Management Group’s reputation. In addition to the Global Compact, adopted a Group-wide CSR Policy, DLG supports the UN Guiding Principles which was renewed in 2018. The policy We seek to reduce DLG’s energy on Business and Human Rights, the is based on the Global Compact, the consumption, minimise our FEFAC Soy Sourcing Guidelines, the UN Global Goals for Sustainable emissions to the environment, use Danish Alliance for Responsible Soya Development, DLG’s core values and resources efficiently and generally and the UK Modern Slavery Act. DLG our fundamental approach to social reduce our environmental impact. is working to implement the principles responsibility, which is that our concerning human rights, labour rights, initiatives must be strategic, signi­ We do not accept corruption in any the environment and anti-corruption ficant and practical. We undertake an form, including – but not limited to in the day-to-day operations of the annual risk assessment to ensure that – bribery, extortion or nepotism. Group. We comply with all relevant our social responsibility initiatives legislation and regulations in the have the maximum positive impact. We seek to ensure diversity in the countries in which we operate. We In 2018, we drew up new Group-wide workplace, to maintain safe working are dedicated to an open dialogue on policies concerning human rights, conditions and a sound working CSR issues with our stakeholders. efficient use of resources and the environment, and to create good gender composition of the Board of development opportunities for our Directors. Together with the deploy­ employees and business partners. In addition to the Global Compact, ment of our forthcoming sustainability DLG supports the UN Guiding strategy, it is a key task to further We respect internationally Principles on Business and Human implement the policies in our business recognised human rights, and Rights, the FEFAC Soy Sourcing and day-to-day practice. As a continuously assess our business Guidelines, the Danish Alliance for consequence of our commitment to to identify instances that might working strategically with CSR, DLG adversely affect these rights. Responsible Soya and the UK does not consider donations to be Modern Slavery Act. part of our CSR work. DLG Group CSR Report 2019 11 RISK ASSESSMENT VERY IMPORTANT Responsible supply chain management IMPORTANCE TO STAKEHOLDERS Resource efficiency Responsible business IMPORTANT operations and anti-corruption Diversity Strong farmer-owned Human rights cooperative Working environment and health IMPORTANT VERY IMPORTANT IMPORTANCE TO DLG DLG emphasises the issues that are most important to our stakeholders and where we can combine sustainability with a profitable business. We use this analysis to prioritise and focus our sustainability initiatives. 12 DLG Group CSR Report 2019 CSR SCOPE AND REPORTING PRINCIPLES The managerial responsibility for Scope and reporting principles DLG’s work with social responsibility The report has been drawn up by COMPANIES is anchored in the Group’s Executive Board. On a day-to-day basis, a CSR considering the sustainability areas that we consider to be the most THAT ARE IN coordinator is responsible for coor­ dinating cross-disciplinary activities, significant for our business, for our stakeholders and for our industry, on PARTICULAR internal and external communication, and Global Compact reporting. the basis of the Global Compact principles and the risk assessment FOCUS IN THIS performed. REPORT The work of preparing goals, action plans and reporting was assigned to a In 2020, we will continue to work on number of cross-disciplinary working developing uniform accounting policies groups in 2019. The groups consist of for the CSR data to be used in the DLG a.m.b.a representatives from all parts of the report, including data concerning Group, with reporting responsibility energy, employees and supply chain DLG Service a/s to DLG’s Group Management. The management, etc. We will also Executive Steering Committee is continue to develop new KPIs and Vilofoss responsible for implementing the crosspolicies that ensure full compliance disciplinary and sector-specific CSR with the more stringent requirements HaGe Kiel initiatives in practice. The individual laid down in the Danish Financial business units are responsible for Statements Act. The report covers Svenska Foder AB implementing the CSR goals in DLG’s business, which in principle concrete action plans. means DLG a.m.b.a. in its entirety, as Team AG well as majority-owned subsidiaries. Associated companies in which DLG does not have a controlling interest are not included in the report. DLG Group CSR Report 2019 13 NEW SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY SETS THE COURSE In the spring of 2020, DLG is to present an ambitious new Group-wide sustainability strategy. The strategy supplements and expands on the existing CSR policy, as well as putting other existing policies – including DLG’s Supplier Code of Conduct – into a wider framework. The ambition is to lift DLG’s sustainability initiatives to a new level and to definitively include sustainability in the Group’s business strategy. A recurring aspect of the sustainability strategy will be the DLG Group’s responsibility and ability, as a market-leading agricultural company, to deliver solutions through our position in the value chain. This applies in particular to solutions that can help to increase the sustainability of primary agricultural production. The new sustainability strategy is a key aspect of the transformation process currently being implemented by the DLG Group, including the gathering in the Group’s new head office in Fredericia. The changes are also an opportunity to consolidate and strengthen the many different sustainability initiatives that are continuously ongoing across the Group’s subsidiaries, as well as national borders. Finally, our sustainability strategy will strengthen our internal and external communication on sustainability, just as the strategy will be a platform for the dialogue with our stakeholders. 14 DLG Group CSR Report 2019 THE PRINCIPLES OF THE UN 10 GLOBAL COMPACT AT DLG The company should support and respect the protection of internationally declared human rights 1 – an integrated element of DLG’s human rights policy, DLG’s Supplier Code of Conduct and our internal DLG Code of Conduct. 2 The company should ensure that it does not contribute to violations of human rights –an integrated element of DLG’s human rights policy, DLG’s Supplier Code of Conduct and our internal DLG Code of Conduct. The company should uphold the right to organise and effectively recognise the right to collective 3 bargaining – an integrated element of DLG’s human rights policy, DLG’s Supplier Code of Conduct and our own occupational health and safety work. The company should support the elimination of all types of forced labour – an integrated element of 4 DLG’s human rights policy and DLG’s Supplier Code of Conduct. The company should support the effective removal of child labour – an integrated element of DLG’s 5 human rights policy and DLG’s Supplier Code of Conduct. The company should eliminate discrimination with respect to work and employment conditions – an 6 integrated element of DLG’s human ­rights policy, DLG’s Supplier Code of Conduct, our diversity ­programme, our policy concerning the gender composition of the Board of Directors, and our internal DLG Code of Conduct. 7 The company should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges – an integrated element of our resource efficiency policy and Supplier Code of Conduct. The company should take the initiative to promote greater environmental responsibility 8 – an integrated element of our resource efficiency policy, sustainability strategy and Supplier Code of Conduct. The company should encourage the development and dissemination of environmentally 9 friendly technologies – an integrated element of our resource efficiency policy, sustainability strategy and Supplier Code of Conduct. The company should fight all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery – an integrated element 10 of DLG’s anti-corruption programme, our compliance programme, and our internal DLG Code of Conduct. DLG Group CSR Report 2019 15 DLG AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS The UN’s Sustainable Development Goals have been incorporated into our sustainability initiatives. Within the DLG Group, we focus particularly on four of the 17 Sustainable Development Goals, and year by year, they are further integrated into our business. At DLG we use the Sustainable Development Goals to explain what, how and why we do the things we do. Goal 2: Goal 8: Decent work Goal 12: Goal 13: Zero hunger and economic growth Responsible CLIMATE ACTION DLG plays an important Since DLG’s most consumption and Our constant aim is role as the first stage important resource is production resource-efficient of food production our employees, we At DLG, we are constantly production and logistics, – and we take this role naturally ensure decent working to optimise our minimising our seriously. We therefore working conditions production and logistics, environmental and support a high level of throughout our value to make them even more climate footprint, and supply reliability, food chain, as well as resource efficient. We developing climatesecurity and sustainable employment in ensure responsible and friendly livestock feed agricultural production. peripheral areas. sustainable production of solutions. We help the raw materials on which individual farmers to our production is based. climate-optimise their Our products support farms. high quality, sustainability, health and animal welfare in livestock production. 16 DLG Group CSR Report 2019 CLIMATE DECLARATION INTERNATIONAL TRAINING INITIATIVE CONCERNING FEED In 2019, four trainees were the first to complete our In 2019, DLG focused on several two-year international Commodity Trader Trainee climate-friendly solutions. programme. They were all subsequently employed by We were, among other things, the Group. The initiative is one of a large number of the first in Europe to provide Group-wide training initiatives to optimise employees’ a climate declaration for our skill set. feed, so that Danish farmers can document their climate initiatives. In 2020, this initiative will be followed up with an actual sustainability strategy. CROPS OF THE FUTURE As part of their sustainable agricultural production, Sejet Planteforædling is developing the crops of the future. They work to strengthen the capacity of crops to adapt to climate change and to increase production, so that we can harvest more from less farmland. INTEGRATION PROJECT IN GERMANY During the past year, HaGe Kiel was involved in a pilot project with the German Red Cross, to train refugees as lorry drivers. CLIMATE-FRIENDLY, LOCALLY PRODUCED PROTEIN Among other things, the Together with a number of other agricultural companies, refugees received support with DLG has received a grant of more than DKK 14 million to language classes and establish production of concentrated protein from grass assistance with contact with and lucerne for organic feed and white protein for food the authorities. Six refugees products. In future, this will make us less dependent on from Iran, Iraq, Syria and importing protein crops from other countries for Danish Afghanistan are involved in the farmers. project. DLG Group CSR Report 2019 17 RESPONSIBLE COMPANY 18 DLG Group CSR Report 2019 GOALS FOR 2020 RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION AND THE PREVENTION OF FRAUD • Continued quarterly assessment of business partners. • Continued incorporation of procedures to support DLG’s Here, the social responsibility of our partners is a key anti-corruption policy. element of the assessment. • Promote DLG Denmark’s implemented monitoring system, • Continued anchoring of DLG’s Supplier Code of Conduct so that it is also anchored in foreign subsidiaries. (SCoC) with all strategic procurement officers in the DLG Group, and the roll-out of SCoC for direct procurement. • Work to ensure consistent policies and processes across The goal is that at least 80% of the procurement volume the Group. must be subject to the adopted ethical standards. • Continue to be systematically aware of and expand the risk • Work for all of DLG’s significant suppliers to sign the SCoC. assessment of unusual companies and offers within the trading area that may indicate activities in conflict with current legislation. RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT As a responsible agricultural and The Group’s Supplier Code of Conduct criteria in the UN Global Compact, food Group, at DLG we must have (SCoC) is at the heart of our respon­ the FEFAC Soy Sourcing Guidelines, tight control of our value chains and sible supply chain management. Here, the Danish Alliance for Responsible suppliers. This concerns strengthening we describe the requirements we Soya and the Roundtable on Sustain­ the Group’s control of the risks make of our suppliers and how we able Palm Oil (RSPO). associated with working with an manage our supplier relationship. increasingly more complex and inter­ The content of the SCoC originates national supply chain. from our CSR policy, the sustainability DLG Group CSR Report 2019 19 In 2019, our overall goal for Sourcing of raw materials 70% of Svenska Foder’s total soya responsible supply chain management DLG imports large quantities of raw purchases. The largest supplier to was focused on deploying the SCoC materials from many parts of the Svenska Foder delivers 100% GMOin practice. This concerned anchoring world, such as South America and free soya. the document and mindset with all Asia. Raw materials such as soya meal strategic procurement officers in the are used in most feed mixes and are Soya meal imports Group, as well as ensuring that even therefore a focus area for our work on Together with a number of food more of DLG’s key suppliers sign and sustainability and social responsibility. producers, such as Arla, Danish Crown adhere to our SCoC. and the Danish Agriculture & Food DLG a.m.b.a.’s raw materials procure­ Council, DLG is committed to only DLG is a large and wide-ranging ment policy is that at least 90% of our buying sustainably produced soya Group with tens of thousands of suppliers must have a certified quality meal that fulfils a large number of suppliers. The initiative was therefore management system in place which production requirements, including concentrated on achieving acceptance covers the raw materials that DLG requirements related to environ­mental and compliance with the SCoC by the purchases. As high a proportion as sustainability, and the prohibition of suppliers that are strategically vital, possible must be certified in accor­ the use of child labour and the use of business critical or present a potential dance with GMP (Good Manufacturing certain pesticides in production. risk. The work progressed well, not Practice). In 2019, more than 90% of least with regard to anchoring the our suppliers had a certified quality In 2019, DLG also formally joined two SCoC in our procurement functions. management system, and 75% of the initiatives concerning responsible soya. We have not yet achieved the raw materials were GMP-certified. In September, the Group signed a required number of supplier signa­ declaration of intent concerning the tures, however, and the goal is Svenska Foder, the Group’s Swedish full implementation of FEFAC’s Soy therefore maintained in 2020. This is agricultural products supplier, procu­ Sourcing Guidelines by 2025, and in in progress and it has been signed by res soya with a focus on fulfilling the October, through DAKOFO, became around 50% of the relevant suppliers. requirements set by the ProTerra a member of the Danish Alliance for certification system. This is a nonResponsible Soya. GMO standard that includes good agricultural practice, use of chemicals, energy consumption, working condi­ tions and respect for local residents and indigenous peoples. In 2019, ProTerra soya accounted for more than 20 DLG Group CSR Report 2019 DLG AND SOYA Soya meal is a key ingredient in responsibility, good farming feed production and represents up practices and long-term economic to 15% of an ordinary feed planning are at the heart of our With imports of 1.7 million tonnes, compound for monogastric animals. dialogue with suppliers. Denmark receives approximately 0.5% It thus accounts for a large share of Observance of human rights and of total global soya production. We DLG’s total production. the Global Compact’s criteria is are a small operator in the world another key aspect of the market, and we as a country cannot Via our SCoC, our Charter for Soya requirements we make of our influence how the soya in South Suppliers, and a number of visits to suppliers. America is produced. In recognition soya producers and suppliers in of this fact, under the European Feed Argentina and Brazil, we have Manufacturers’ Federation (FEFAC), sought insight into, gained an DLG participated actively in the DLG’S CHARTER understanding of, and been in development of common guidelines direct dialogue with stakeholders for sustainable soya imports: the FEFAC Soy Sourcing Guidelines. concerning a wide range of CSRrelated parameters. FOR SOYA Today, the Guidelines are the highest SUPPLIERS standard by which European soya In our SCoC, we set a large number importers assess South American of stringent requirements, e.g. • The supplier must be a member soya suppliers. The FEFAC Guidelines concerning deforestation, correct of the Global Compact have had a significant positive effect handling of pesticides, good in South America, since they have agricultural practice, labour rights, • The supplier must not accept made European soya importers’ the local population and health child labour expectations in terms of sustainable issues. Before they may deliver to soya production clear to suppliers. In us – and thereby also to Danish • The supplier must recognise the September 2019, DLG signed a farmers – suppliers must sign an employees’ right to organise declaration of intent on the full agreement that they will comply implementation of the FEFAC Guide­ with these requirements. After • Raw materials from rainforest lines by 2025. many years’ cooperation with our areas felled after 24 July 2006 suppliers, our experience is that we are not accepted In the same way, the Danish Alliance can use good and constructive for Responsible Soya is an important dialogue to ensure that soya • The supplier must have a policy to initiative whereby the overall agri­ production takes place on an ensure that the use of pesticides cultural industry, NGOs and retailers appropriate basis. takes place in accordance with have joined forces to promote local legislation and the imports of sustainably imported soya. Responsible relations with neigh­ Stockholm and Rotterdam bouring areas, environmental Conventions DLG Group CSR Report 2019 21 Concerning all of our soya purchases, Production of around 4,000 tonnes of Purchase of vitamins, minerals we require suppliers to comply with protein and 25,000 tonnes of dry and other feed compounds our own charter and Supplier Code of matter in total is planned. In the DLG’s vitamin and mineral activities Conduct, which has a number of longer term, solutions of this type, in are gathered under the Vilofoss elements, with endorsement of the the form of locally produced green brand. The raw materials used in the Global Compact as one of the protein, will reduce European agri­ production of vitamins and minerals requirements. Again in 2019, we were culture’s dependence on protein are procured in other parts of the in ongoing dialogue with our suppliers crops, including from South America. world and their import is controlled concerning responsibility and sustain­ and regulated in accordance with ability in soya production, just as we Purchase of palm oil Regulation (EC) no. 183/2005 laying participate in the public debate on As with soya meal, DLG purchases down requirements for food hygiene, this subject. palm oil for use in feed production. In and Directive 2002/32/EC on un­ order to stay informed about the desirable substances in animal feed. We are also involved in a large development in Southeast Asia’s number of research projects which, in palm oil industry, DLG became a We endeavour to be proactive in the longer term, can make it possible member of the Roundtable on relation to producers and suppliers to cultivate alternative protein crops Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) in 2012. concerning their joint responsibility locally in Europe. In November 2019, RSPO brings together interest organi­ for people and the environment, and DLG published the “From green sations from various sectors of the on this basis physical supplier audits protein to the refrigerated counter” palm oil industry with the aim of are conducted both in Denmark and project, which concerns the estab­ developing and implementing global abroad. All producers and suppliers lishment of a prototype green bio­ standards for sustainable palm oil. are certified in accordance with the refinery plant. The project has received Feed standard (GMP+, FAMIQS, et al.). DKK 14 million in support from the The most important principles behind Danish Ministry of Environment and the certification include transparency, The individual raw materials used in Food’s business support scheme, the labour rights, use of the best available vitamins and minerals are approved Green Develop­ ment and Demon­ cultivation methods, protection of under the common industry standard stration Programme (GUDP), and will nature and the environment, and longand the statutory requirements include the cultiva­tion of grass clover term economic planning. We will applicable to feed. In view of the and lucerne on around 2,000 hec­ continue to support RSPO in 2020. importance of food safety, we tares, and a central processing unit to evaluate each raw material according produce concen­trated protein, silage, to Hazard Analysis Critical Control grass juice and a residual product that Points (HACCP), to ensure quality can be used for biogas production. throughout the production chain. 22 DLG Group CSR Report 2019 We endeavour to be effective and innovative by leveraging technology and resources better in the future. This will create value for the environment, nature and climate – and for our customers. Jesper Pagh Executive Vice President, Animal Nutrition DLG Group CSR Report 2019 23 ANTI-CORRUPTION AND THE PREVENTION OF FRAUD Since 2015, DLG has worked accor­ Anyone working on behalf of DLG has ge­ment reporting on internal controls, ding to the Group’s anti-corruption a responsibility to help detect, with monthly reporting to the policy, which we continue to imple­ prevent and report cases of suspicious manage­ment. ment, as well as controlling com­ activities or wrongdoing. As a pliance therewith. company, DLG is committed to, and Our trading department focused on wants everyone to have, safe and the risk assessment of our business Corruption in any form is not confidential access to report any partners, resulting in an awareness acceptable at DLG. This is not suspicious activity. Everyone needs list of companies with which we will consistent with our way of doing to know how they can “speak up if not cooperate. The list also includes business, and we take the view that necessary. We therefore have several active partners who are continuously our employees should neither channels that provide this oppor­ risk assessed and evaluated. Our practice nor accept corruption. This tunity. If there are grounds for concern trading department also continuously position is underlined by our adoption that any form of corrupt action is being assesses the social responsibility of of the UN Global Compact, which considered or performed, the problem/ our business partners and their encourages companies to ‘work concern must be reported to the reporting under applicable standards, against corruption in all its forms, employee’s immediate superior, the such as the Global Compact. including extortion and bribery’. Group’s legal department or the internal audit department. In the coming year, the work of en­ The anti-corruption policy explains suring greater consistency between DLG’s stance on corruption, and how In 2019, we continued to work to our policies and processes across the it is avoided, and also provides strengthen our set-up. We also focu­ Group will continue, and we will guidance on how to deal with sed on streamlining internal business proceed with the implementation of corruption as a DLG employee. The processes/procedures in order to the control monitoring system in our policy also describes how DLG achieve a better overview and an foreign subsidiaries. employees should act in situations enhanced control environment. The where doubt may arise as to whether work to disseminate DLG Denmark’s the purpose bears any characteristics implemented control monitoring system of bribery or corruption. All new to our foreign subsidiaries also took employees are instructed in the place this year, and quarterly mee­ policy, and all employees must tings with these subsidiaries had a annually study and confirm that they positive impact on this development. understand the policy. The year also saw formalised mana­ 24 DLG Group CSR Report 2019 DLG’S POSITION ON CORRUPTION In the DLG Group, we do not accept corruption in any of its forms, including, but not limited to, bribery, extortion, facilitation payments or nepotism, in any of the Group’s business activities or relations. DLG employees do not offer, provide or receive gifts or payments that may be considered to be bribes. We do not offer, provide or receive personal gifts, services, travel, entertainment or other benefits of significant value to or from DLG’s suppliers or business partners. We are aware of potential conflicts of interest in our business, and expect our employees to ensure that their personal interests are not in conflict with the interests of the DLG Group. DLG does not accept any form of insider trading. DLG Group CSR Report 2019 25 RESOURCE EFFICIENCY 26 DLG Group CSR Report 2019 GOALS FOR 2020 • Prepare a comprehensive sustainability strategy that • All business units will scale back their primary energy resour­ce includes the DLG Group’s climate ambitions by 2%. Each business unit must specify its primary energy resource and draw up an action plan to achieve the goal. • Reduce the Group’s movement factor, together with consistent optimisation of transport (fuel consumption, • Systematic implementation of LEAN principles and LEAN tonnes/load and km/tonne) tools at Group level DLG’S PRODUCTION, OPERATIONS AND LOGISTICS DLG is one of Europe’s largest have always endeavoured to operate improvement measures. We endeavour agricultural companies and one of our activities as sustainably as to be effective and innovative by the largest transport operators in possible, but with this policy, we leveraging technology and resources. Denmark. This means that even more identified the direction in which we This creates value for the environment, resource-efficient operations, produc­ want to move for the first time. It was, nature and climate – and for our tion and logistics can make a big among other things, in the resource customers. One of the challenges difference – for the Group’s bottom efficiency policy that we first presented by the approach is that DLG line, competitiveness and overall presented the goal of providing a operates in a weather-dependent sustainability. Having ’our own house climate declaration for our feed. In sector. In a year with a wet harvest, in order’, and constantly optimising 2019, we continued the work to our energy consumption for drying our energy and resource consumption, implement the policy’s objectives in grain will be high, while a more and minimising our impact on nature, practice, just as it will be part of the normal harvest will be characterised the environment and climate, are coming overall sustainability strategy by higher energy consumption to therefore of paramount importance for the DLG Group. move the larger volumes harvested. to us. Other measures – such as better On a day-to-day basis, there is pellet quality and less fat in the feed It was in recognition of this that we particular focus on our consumption compounds – also drive up energy drew up and adopted an actual of energy and resources – and not consumption. resource efficiency policy in 2018. We least profitable energy-efficiency DLG Group CSR Report 2019 27 The movement factor and overall terms is satisfactory and MEASURES TAKEN optimisation of tonnes/load and better than in 2018. In Denmark, we IN 2019 INCLUDE km/tonne The movement factor expresses how are working to install new, lighter tanks on the tanker vehicles. As a THE FOLLOWING: good we are at handling the large consequence, the tanker vehicles will quantities of raw materials and crops be able to carry more goods, without • Regulator on ventilation and efficiently. Our goal in 2019 was to exceeding weight limits. The result pellet cooler reduce the Group’s movement factor will be a higher number of tonnes per • Replacement of energy-intensive and to focus on optimising tonnes/ load. The Group maintains its equipment load and km/tonne. The last two varia­­ ambition to optimise our transport • Larger presses bles express the energy efficiency of operations. • Heat exchangers in factories DLG’s trucks when loading and transporting the large volumes. Fuel consumption Reduction of fuel consumption THESE EFFORTS Overall, the Group reduced its movement factor by 0.65%. This is a remains the primary focus of the transport area. In 2019, we continued HAVE YIELDED satisfactory result, not least in view of to shift our transport flows towards A NUMBER the wet harvest conditions. The trend is driven by Germany, which reduced lorries with greater capacity and better fuel efficiency. DLG and our OF CONCRETE the movement factor by 1.6% – which was particularly related to the smaller German subsidiary, Team AG, are currently replacing the old vehicles in RESULTS: quantities of crops to be transported. the fleet with newer models. This will reduce fuel consumption and particle • 8% decrease in kWh per tonne of The generally good results show that emissions. We are also focusing on feed produced (factories) the agricultural sector’s continued more sustainable driving, including • 4% decrease in CO2 emissions development towards ever larger through new techniques such as per tonne of feed produced machine capacity, together with ‘Predictive Power Control’ (PPC), and (factories) the sound cooperation with our continue to train our drivers in • 13% decrease in CO2 emissions customers on the correct location of climate-friendly driving techniques. per tonne per km (transport) stocks and increased on-site storage of crops, are measures that it is In 2019, the Group used 9.13 million worthwhile to take. We maintain the litres of diesel, compared to 9.48 million ambition to reduce the movement litres in 2018. The fuel consumption We therefore fundamentally work to factor in 2020. achieve improvement at a structural level and to optimise the underlying The Group increased km/tonne by variables, so that our demonstrated 1.5 km (equivalent to an increase of resource efficiency does not depend 1.0%). At Group level, tonnes/load on factors beyond our control. was increased by 1.66%, which in 28 DLG Group CSR Report 2019 per kilometre corresponds to the Disregarding the wet harvest period, LEAN agents working continu­ously to result for 2018, but since the average a wide range of energy-efficient achieve more efficient use of resources. load has increased, we have reduced measures were implemented in the total number of kilometres driven various areas of the Group. One In DLG, a further 12 LEAN agents – giving a positive reduction of diesel consequence is that, in Germany, we were trained, bringing the total consumption. reduced electricity consumption in number to 38 at the end of 2019. The our production and warehouse by 7.6 KAIZEN method is now increasingly Reduced consumption of million kWh. In total, we reduced our being applied in order to achieve a primary energy resources average consumption of electricity more practice-based approach. In Production of agricultural products for production by 8.26% and for 2020, we will work to standardise our (feed, etc.) is a core area for DLG and warehouses by 1.01%. The succes in efforts to increase energy efficiency requires large amounts of energy. It our German agricultural products by applying the XP2 standard. therefore makes good commercial company is due to the completion of sense to seek to be as energy efficient nine ambitious projects in production Our German subsidiary HaGe has as possible, as this benefits both the and 20 in warehousing. worked systematically with LEAN and environment and our customers. waste reduction. This is achieved In 2020, we will continue to optimise through weekly LEAN meetings for The overall energy goal for DLG’s energy efficiency in our production management and a number of production in 2019 was to implement and warehouses by strengthening projects in production. LEAN thinking concrete projects that correspond to the underlying ‘fundamentals’. Our is also an important element of the savings in the individual business goal is still to reduce consumption of organisational adjustments to be made units of 2% per year for the specific the primary energy source by 2%, just by HaGe in the first half of 2020. energy consumption category. as all relevant business units within the Group will continue to draw up In our Swedish subsidiary Svenska The goal was not reached in 2019, action plans to increase their energy Foder, close to every employee has which should be seen in the light of efficiency. The area will be a natural received training in LEAN, and 20 the rather wet harvest period. The part of the work on the upcoming have been trained as LEAN agents. wet summer pushed up consumption sustainability strategy. LEAN processes are continuously being of the primary energy source used to implemented in order to increase run our drying plant – gas – by 53.06% LEAN resource efficiency. compared to the very dry harvest LEAN is a critically important method period in 2018. The underlying variables to increase the efficient use of In 2020, we will continue to deploy are nonetheless sound: We reduced resources, and we are committed to LEAN principles among all employees gas consumption in production by deploying these tools in our produc­ in the Group, to ensure focus on the 10.42%. tion, logistics and transport, including efficient use of resources. in the form of LEAN agents and training. Again in 2019, a major effort was made throughout the Group, with DLG Group CSR Report 2019 29 DLG’S CLIMATE ACTION In the Group’s climate action, DLG to continue. The Danish food industry, DLG’s climate efficiency ambitions focuses on initiatives that support an headed by the Danish Agriculture & are therefore based on the farmer actual green transition – as practical Food Council, has drawn up and the farm. We need to consider instruments and projects that com­ objectives for Danish food to be which data we can offer farmers, in bine sustainability and profitability. climate-neutral by 2050. DLG order to calculate their climate This concerns ‘keeping our own supports this objective, in particular accounts. We also want to help house in order’ and also continuously by helping our customers and farmers to deliver products with the optimising our consumption of business partners to meet their lowest possible climate emissions. energy and resources. We are also climate ambitions. Danish farmers For DLG, the key aspect is always to developing solutions for other have already done a lot to reduce be the farmer’s preferred partner. elements of the value chain of which their climate footprint and are among we take part: Our suppliers and our the most resource efficient in the FOCUS ON PRACTICAL SOLUTIONS customers, comprising farmers and world. As an agricultural company, their processing and sales companies. DLG’s climate-related mission is to In 2019, besides streamlining our help farmers to achieve even more. It production, operations and logistics, A report published by the European is also important for us to be a good we also launched a series of climate Environment Agency in September business partner, and we want to help measures to give our agricultural 2019 shows that climate change has the other links in the value chain to customers additional tools for the already affected the agricultural achieve their own ambitious climate climate optimisation of their farms. sector and that the impact is expected objectives. 30 DLG Group CSR Report 2019 DLG Group CSR Report 2019 2018 31 One of the measures concerns our Another initiative involving feed is the The sustainability strategy will set the core area: livestock feed. DLG is the “Climate Feed” research project. This course for how, across the Group, we first agricultural company in Europe four-year project will investigate are moving in a more sustainable to provide a climate declaration for whether Danish farmers can use a direction. It will also create value for its feed compounds in line with special feed supplement, made from our customers with solutions that international guidelines. Primary pro­ seaweed, to stop methane formation help them to reduce their farms’ duction accounts for by far the largest in the cow’s rumen. climate footprint. The focus of our part – up to 80% – of agricultural and strategy will thus include creating food production’s climate footprint. Together with a number of other sustainable solutions for the benefit By providing data, documentation agricultural companies, DLG has also of our customers and owners, in the and the opportunity to procure received a grant of more than DKK same way as already achieved with climate-efficient feed, DLG helps 14 million to establish production of the climate declaration of our feed farmers make climate-conscious choices concentrated protein from grass and products. Everything that we do must and also facilitates the documentation lucerne for organic feed and white create value for our owners, ensuring of their products’ climate footprint. protein for food products. As a that sound business acumen and consequence, we will be able to sustainability go hand in hand. The chain aspect is a key element of produce more protein in Denmark in creating even more sustainable agri­ the future, making us less dependent cultural production. Reductions in on importing protein crops from one part of the value chain will only other countries for Danish farmers. be appropriate if they contribute to the entire chain’s sustainability. DLG Solutions such as these will shape our has therefore joined forces with a sustainability strategy, which is number of the other farmer-owned expected to be presented in the first cooperative companies in Denmark half of 2020. These are all concrete to build a shared climate reporting initiatives that will ultimately result in toolbox. The ambition is to offer real outcomes for the individual Danish and European farmers farmer. credible and accurate calculation of food products’ total climate footprint. 32 DLG Group CSR Report 2019 DLG Group CSR Report 2019 2017 33 PEOPLE AT DLG 34 DLG Group CSR Report 2019 GOALS FOR 2020 DIVERSITY WORKING ENVIRONMENT • Elect a female member of DLG’s Group Board of Directors • Implement a working environment standard in DLG’s by no later than 2020. management system. • Increase the ratio of female managers, by focusing on our • Simplify, systematise and enhance the quality of workplace talent identification and development. We will do this by assessments and safety inspection rounds. creating a transparent process and ensuring that our managers are challenged by HR-professionals during the • Adjust the size and function of the occupational health and selection process and in conjuction with employee safety organisation, and develop members’ expertise in development. Across the Group, we will also share our using new IT tools. experience and disseminate the most effective initiatives to other countries. • Develop DLG’s occupational health and safety manual with relevant topics. The occupational health and safety manual • Continue our endeavours to have at least one candidate of is a reference work for all employees, and the occupational each gender in all recruitments for managerial and health and safety organisation in particular. specialist positions. • The working environment is in constant focus at daily • Strengthen our focus on diversity in teams and on the noticeboard meetings/production meetings. unconscious recruitment bias. We will also explore how we can ensure greater diversity within DLG by also • Increased focus on transport safety. This includes contributing experience from other sectors. increasing the information level and reducing tripping and falling accidents. • Continue our focus on training and education at DLG, and also increase efforts in countries other than Denmark, e.g. • The target number of registered near-misses is set at 150 by drawing on experience from the Danish certification and (198 including Vilofoss). training of sales staff. • Vilofoss’ occupational health and safety organisation is integrated into DLG’s occupational health and safety organisation. DLG Group CSR Report 2019 2018 35 DIVERSITY DLG has adopted a diversity strategy At DLG we endeavour to be a Group’s subsidiaries which, in accor­ whereby we apply a broader diversity workplace that values diversity, since dance with Section 99 of the Danish perspective that extends beyond we know that this creates results, and Financial Statements Act, are gender. This strategy describes our thereby value for our owners. independently obliged to account for overall vision for diversity and is the under-represented gender. In based on four elements: We are therefore dedicated to creating both cases, they have set target an inclusive culture and structures figures and a timeframe. For both • We will establish an inclusive that do not unintentionally inhibit companies, the Boards of Directors workplace by supporting a culture certain groups. Decisions concerning exclusively consist of men and the that promotes collaboration and recruitment,hiring,training, development target figure has not been achieved. fairness, and that gives individual and evaluation of our employees This is because the owners have not employees the opportunity to must always adhere to the principle considered it necessary to replace make a contribution and develop of equal opportunities, with focus on the current Board of Directors. their full potential. competences and potential. Our strategy is to create an environ­ment in DLG is a cooperative company • We will recruit and hire from a which individual employees are re­ (a.m.b.a.) owned by almost 25,000 diverse and qualified group of spected and rewarded for their efforts, Danish farmers, 1,200 of whom are potential candidates, to ensure a irrespective of their age, gender, ethnic women, corresponding to 4.8%. The high-performing workforce. background, sexual orientation or company’s highest authority is the disability. We also value diversity in Board of Representatives. The Board • We must have managers who can the form of different personal qualities, of Representatives consists of 77 lead in a diverse environment and educational back­grounds and ways of owner-elected members, and 12 create an inclusive culture. thinking. employee-elected representatives. Members of the Board of Repre­ • We take responsibility by Statutory statement concerning sentatives are elected for two years measuring and following up on gender under-representation, at a time, and DLG’s Board of employees’ perspectives on in accordance with Section 99b Directors are elected from among diversity and culture at the of the Danish Financial them. As from and including May workplace, to ensure compliance Statements Act 2020, the company’s Board of with the strategy. This report covers target figures and Directors will consist of a total of 13 policies for the DLG Group’s Board of members, of whom two will be Directors and Executive Board. Vitfoss employee representatives and three and DLG Service are the two of the will be externally appointed. After 36 DLG Group CSR Report 2019 the election in May 2018, the gender Concrete initiatives implemented during distribution is 11 men and 1 woman the past year include: (elected by the employees). The Vi søger flere kvinder Board of Directors is elected for two • At the annual local accounting til repræsentantskabet years at a time. meetings, the female members are invited to put themselves forward I DLG værdsætter vi forskellighed. Vi tror på, at diversitet er en styrke, som gør os i stand til at skabe stærkere resultater. Elect a female member of DLG’s for, and become members of, Vores øverste myndighed er repræsentantskabet. Kun et fåtal Group Board of Directors by no DLG’s Board of Representatives. er kvinder, men det er noget, vi vil lave om på, så repræsentanter afspejler mangfoldigheden i landbruget. later than 2020 Derfor vil vi forud for forårets valg til DLG’s repræsentantskab The Group has the goal to have one • DLG’s Board members undertake gerne invitere kvinder med tilknytning til landbruget til en inspirationsaften. Her vil to af vores kvindelige repræsentantsowner-elected female member of the to perform outreach recruitment kabsmedlemmer – Dorte Himmelstrup og Anette Jessen – dele ud af deres erfaringer fra repræsentantskabet, Board of Directors by no later than efforts towards potential female og jeg vil fortælle lidt mere om, hvordan vi arbejder i repræsentantskabet og bestyrelsen – og hvorfor vi mener, the 2020 election. The first step in Board members. det er vigtigt, at vi får flere kvindelige ejervalgte. this regard was to increase the ratio Vel mødt of owner-elected female members of • Two ERFA (exchange of Niels Dengsø Jensen the Board of Representatives to experience) meetings for female Bestyrelsesformand i DLG match the ratio of women among owners were held in DLG’s retail DLG Fredericia, Vesterballevej 4, Fredericia self-employed farmers (approximately regions in December 2019 and Tirsdag den 10. december 2019 kl. 17 – middag kl. 19. 8%). Since DLG’s Board of Directors January 2020. At these meetings, Scandic, Nørretorv 57, Ringsted Mandag den 27. januar 2020 kl. 17 – middag kl. 19. derives from the Board of Represen­ attended by female members of Tilmelding til DLG’s ledelsessekretariat, tatives, a major information campaign the Board of Representatives, the Anne-Grete Nielsen, tlf. 3368 3313 eller e-mail atn@dlg.dk to increase the recruitment base has work of the Board of been conducted over the years, in Representatives and relevant order to be able to elect more female issues are discussed. DLG’s Board Hvem kan stille op til DLG’s repræsentantskab? owners to DLG’s Board of members coordinated the ERFA Alle, der indgår i ledelsen, eller som repræsenterer et medlem kan som udgangsRepresentatives and, subsequently, groups. punkt stille op til repræsentantskabet. Et repræsentantskabsmedlem kan derfor også the Board of Directors. In recognition that recruitment requires further • The Board of Directors annually være gift med et medlem af DLG eller driftsleder hos et medlem. Der kan dog kun opstilles én person pr. medlem. Repræsentantskabet er DLG’s øverste myndighed og består af 79 ejervalgte repræsentantskabsmedlemmer efforts, DLG’s Board of Directors has considers the ‘Women on the samt 12 medarbejdervalgte repræsentanter. Repræsentantskabets medlemmer vælges for undertaken a number of activities in Board of Representatives and to år ad gangen. line with the action plan for the underBoard of Directors’ agenda item, www.dlg.dk represented gender on the Board of in order to adopt initiatives and A19193 Directors that was adopted in 2018. review developments. DLG Group CSR Report 2019 37 38 FEMALE MANAGERS 28% FACTS, FEMALE FEMALE MANAGERS FEMALE EMPLOYEES 29% EMPLOYEES AND FEMALE FEMALEEMPLOYEES FEMALE SALARIED MANAGERS EMPLOYEES 43% DENMARK FEMALE SALARIED EMPLOYEES FEMALEEMPLOYEES FEMALE MANAGERS DLG Group CSR Report 2019 MANAGERS FEMALE SALARIED EMPLOYEES MANAGERS FEMALE FEMALE EMPLOYEES FEMALE MANAGERS 29% FEMALE EMPLOYEES FEMALE SALARIED FEMALE MANAGERS FEMALEEMPLOYEES 43% FEMALE SALARIED EMPLOYEES FEMALE SALARIED FEMALEEMPLOYEES FEMALE EMPLOYEES MANAGERS 55% SWEDEN FEMALE SALARIED EMPLOYEES FEMALE MANAGERS FEMALE EMPLOYEES FEMALE MANAGERS FEMALE SALARIED FEMALE EMPLOYEES FEMALE MANAGERS FEMALEEMPLOYEES 9% FEMALE SALARIED EMPLOYEES FEMALE SALARIED FEMALEEMPLOYEES FEMALE EMPLOYEES MANAGERS 28% FEMALE SALARIED EMPLOYEES MANAGERS 43% FEMALE FEMALE EMPLOYEES GERMANY FEMALE MANAGERS FEMALE EMPLOYEES FEMALE SALARIED FEMALE MANAGERS FEMALEEMPLOYEES FEMALE SALARIED EMPLOYEES FEMALE SALARIED FEMALEEMPLOYEES FEMALE EMPLOYEES MANAGERS 12% FEMALE SALARIED EMPLOYEES FEMALE EMPLOYEES 27% FRANCE FEMALE SALARIED EMPLOYEES 42% The overall expectation is that after In Q4 each year, we conduct our In 2019, we systematically trained new the election in May 2020, DLG’s Board annual employee satisfaction survey DLG managers in how to avoid of Directors will have an ownerthroughout the DLG Group. The survey recruitment bias, which is the uncon­ elected female member. We will includes such topics as employees’ scious deselection of suitable candi­ continue our endeavours to recruit experience of diversity and equal dates based on ethnic origin, gender, more women to the Board of opportunities for all employees. The age, appearance, etc. One aspect is Representatives in the coming years. result for 2019 shows that we are at a that managers must accept that stable, high level, although naturally everyone is biased, and managers Diversity at employee level there is also room for improvement. should reflect on and be familiar with Gender distribution at management their own recruitment bias. Another level is influenced by the fact that we One strategy to ensure equal oppor­ approach is to adhere to DLG’s estab­ have many job functions that are tunities for everyone at DLG is to lished recruitment process, which for traditionally male-dominated occupa­ adhere to a recruitment process where­ specialists and managers, for example, tions and for which the recruitment by all positions are, as a minimum, includes a minimum of two interviews, pool therefore primarily consists of posted internally within the company. the obtaining of references and per­ men. If we solely consider the gender This means that employees who are sonality/skill tests. This reveals more distribution among salaried employees, interested in internal development facets of the candidates, so that they the gender balance is more even than have the opportunity to apply for the are not assessed solely on the basis of the gender balance for all employees. positions. If they are qualified for the first impressions or demographic factors. job, they are guaranteed a first interview The number of female managers re­ on equal terms with external applicants. Increasing diversity at DLG mained stable during the past year, through education, information compared to the significant increase in In 2019, there was a focus on several and follow-up the number of female managers in 2018. ways of ensuring diversity in our At DLG, we wish to create diversity in departments. In 2019, we also recruited the workforce by appointing em­ more new employees than usual, due ployees with different backgrounds in to the opening of the new head office terms of education and professional in Fredericia in 2020. This supported experience. We are increasingly our focus on the diversity of teams in recruiting graduate employees to terms of age, educational background, undertake various specialist functions, gender, background, etc. and we focus on being able to attract graduates with academic qualifica­ tions within relevant disciplines. DLG Group CSR Report 2019 39 I WORK WITH COLLEAGUES OF VARIOUS GENDERS, ETHNIC ORIGINS AND BACKGROUNDS IN MY DAILY WORK 3,8 DENMARK 3,8 3,7 SWEDEN 3,7 4,0 FRANCE 4,2 4,0 GERMANY 4,0 0,0 0,5 1,0 1,5 2,0 2,5 3,0 3,5 4,0 4,5 IN OUR ORGANISATION, ALL EMPLOYEES HAVE THE SAME OPPORTUNITIES FOR DEVELOPMENT, IRRESPECTIVE OF GENDER, AGE AND BACKGROUND 4,0 DENMARK 3,9 3,7 SWEDEN 3,6 3,6 FRANCE 3,8 3,8 GERMANY 3,9 0,0 0,5 1,0 1,5 2,0 2,5 3,0 3,5 4,0 2019 2018 40 DLG Group CSR Report 2019 DLG’s sales organisation is critical to relevant sales techniques. In addition, DLG’s success and ability to succeed the Sales Academy will in future with its “Leading the Way” strategy. include a class for newly recruited In recent years, due to the major DLG sales personnel, on the same structural changes in agriculture and terms as their colleagues. the industry in general, DLG has upgraded the competences of the At DLG, we are proud to have many sales force in order to ensure that employees with a long length of going forward we can continue to service with the Group. We also know create value and contribute know­ that diversity in terms of age distri­ ledge in encounters with customers bution creates dynamic momentum and the market. and thereby value for customers, colleagues and owners. In 2019, we In 2018 and 2019, we undertook the therefore focused on also attracting biggest training initiative in DLG’s younger candidates to DLG. history: DLG Sales Academy, which matched the academic subject “Sales We were in contact with agricultural psychology and basic sales”. The colleges and relevant educational training programme is customised to institutions, inviting them to engage DLG’s needs, and during this period in closer cooperation. This resulted in our entire salesforce of around 140 meetings with educational institutions people took the programme, which and attendance of job fairs where we comprises four training days and could present job opportunities at three supervisor days. The pro­ DLG and our journey to Fredericia. gramme is concluded with an oral We experienced how our story of the examination based on the employee’s development of today’s DLG was own project assignment. well-received by people with an agricultural background, as well as To ensure that experience from the younger academic graduates. Sales Academy can be absorbed and disseminated within the organisation, Since we would like to pave the way employees working closely with sales for younger employees to join DLG, attended a shorter course in the the number of trainees/junior positions DLG Group CSR Report 2019 41 in several departments should be More women managers at all levels This indicates that managers at DLG increased. In 2019, we focused on our To ensure a good management pipe­ assess development potential on an two-year sales trainee programme, line, with a balanced gender distribu­ equal basis, irrespective of gender. which we have reassessed and tion of candidates, it is vital that The next step towards ensuring a customised to match the position of immediate managers assess employees balanced gender distribution of the product consultant at DLG. In 2019, according to the same parameters, candidates in the senior management we accepted six sales trainees in our irrespective of gender. Every year, pipeline is that the underlying retail areas, which is the highest each employee attends a develop­ management layer also has a good number during the five years that the ment interview with his or her gender balance. training programme has been running. immediate manager, at which the Including the five sales trainees who employee is assessed on the basis of We would also like to have a better are in the second year of the pro­ two parameters: Readiness for new gender balance among our product gramme, we now have 11 sales challenges, and Performance. In 2019, consultants. We saw a slight increase trainees. We also had the opportunity 22% of female employees and 24% of in the under-represented gender in to offer permanent employment to all male employees were assessed to be 2019 (from 7% to 9%), but this area the trainees who completed the performing at a high level, while also still requires work at the recruitment programme during the summer. being ready for new challenges. stage and with regard to team formation in general. In addition to our sales trainee pro­ gramme, the first class of four people completed the international Commo­ dity Trader Trainee pro­gram­me in 2019. We were able to offer all four trainees permanent employment after they completed the programme, and we will now evaluate how this process is to run going forward. We are also in internal dialogue concerning other trainee programmes that we expect to be able to launch in 2020. 42 DLG Group CSR Report 2019 New DLG employees, Denmark Number of new Period employees 2017 160 2018 262 The first 10 months of 2019 202 DLG Group CSR Report 2018 43 WORKING ENVIRONMENT Introduction been adopted – resulting in a leaner, To optimise work processes, we also At DLG, we have 5,900 employees, geographically structured organisation. invested in remote-controlled shutters who all contribute to running a This means, in particular, that members in several loading halls for our truck successful and effective business. work together across sectors and use drivers. This ensures that the driver Reliable, value-creating and ambitious apps to make the work more effective can activate filling of the vehicle by employees are DLG‘s most important and easier to follow up centrally. remote control and avoid pulling and resource, and they are the basis for dragging the heavy shutters. our continued positive development. In general, there is a focus on using systems that can simplify workflows Our objective is to reprioritise GroupA good and safe working environment and make us more effective. This has wide occupational health and safety is vital to ensuring that development also resulted in a new system for cooperation, but this is a challenge – is possible. At DLG, the working handling safety data sheets. KemiData both across national borders and also environment is about preventing workensures that all employees have in relation to the relatively large related injuries and illness, while at updated safety data sheets on PCs and differences between the Group’s the same time creating a social as apps, with barcode scanners – the business areas. It is important to note, environment that promotes employees’ system is to be rolled out in 2020. however, that we can undoubtedly job satisfaction and motivation on a learn from each other in the various day-to-day basis. Overall Group occupational health and safety Because of DLG’s amalgamation of organisations. All subsidiaries that are Working in agriculture and production our new head office and regional part of the DLG Group have an is associated with greater risks than office in Fredericia, there has been effective occupational health and other types of work. It is therefore extra focus on the working safety organisation. They are experts vital for DLG to always maintain a safe environment and OHS as part of the in their own workflows and, year after and healthy working environment for change process. The occupational year, succeed in improving the working our employees. We do this with health and safety group thus attended environment for their employees. This preventive activities and information a course on “Well-being in open-plan is also reflected in the continued campaigns related to the safety, health offices”, which helped to create good decline in the number of occupational and working environment of our solutions. Employees were also accidents, as well as a range of employees. offered an ergonomic review of their initiatives to improve employees’ workspace, to ensure that everyone working lives. The occupational health and safety can work on an optimised basis and organisation has been reprioritised that we prevent any strain injuries. and adjustment of the organisation has 44 DLG Group CSR Report 2019 The 2019 employee satisfaction survey environment conditions, and may e.g. In addition, we invested in the Safety­ shows that the DLG Group’s employees lead to the registration of a near-miss Net program, whereby employees can continue to be satisfied with their and/or the establishment of an action access their workplace assessments working lives. In general, DLG’s plan. At DLG, our policy is that all from their mobile phones, to stay employees are highly motivated, dedi‑ locations where employees are present updated on the risk assessment and c­ated and proud to be our employees. must be inspected by a health and its processing. The program will also The variations from last year are very safety representative at least once a year. be used by the occupational health small, and the results are still at a high The same applies to DLG’s tankers and safety organisation in their safety level compared to external bench­ and trucks. inspection rounds. marks from similar companies. The action plans, of which most are The structure and frequency of the Safety inspection rounds handled within the deadline, were pro­ inspection rounds has also been Safety inspection rounds are an cessed successfully. This means that reassessed. As a consequence, all important aspect of preventive work. the action points were addressed on locations, including trucks, are inspected A safety inspection round is a way of time, enabling us to ensure that all once a year as before, but drivers are monitoring and controlling the working workplaces fulfil the requirements set. no longer inspected. DLG Group CSR Report 2019 45 Near-misses in our German subsidiaries has also The official transition to the new head and occupational accidents declined, from a total of 103 in 2018 office in Fredericia will inevitably also We achieved the goal of increasing to 94 in 2019. We will endeavour to bring challenges, which we, together the number of near-misses registered. maintain the positive development by with the occupational health and To prevent occupational accidents in giving priority to Group-wide occupa­ safety group, will ensure that we can the future, it is important that as tional health and safety cooperation, meet, so that any major adverse many near-misses as possible are by sharing of best practice across effects can be avoided. It should also registered. In 2019, we achieved the country and company borders. This be possible for Vilofoss’ and DLG’s goal of 100 registered near-misses, will enable us to learn from each occupational health and safety with production in particular paying a other, despite differentiated work organisations to be combined. lot of attention to the registration of assignments and areas. Hopefully, this will serve as the first near-misses. We can now see that step towards major overall Groupthere is further potential to increase What will happen next? wide occupational health and safety the registration goal. Ongoing working environment collaboration. initiatives in 2020 ­­ DLG is continuously working to improve In the coming year, further adjust­ the working environment for our ments will be made to the size and employees and in order to comply function of the occupational health with the authorities’ regulations in and safety organisation, and we will this area, with the day-to-day work maintain our increased focus on safety being undertaken by a skilled occu­ by expanding the occupational health pational health and safety organi­sation. and safety manual and thereby the information level. It is our experience As part of our working environment that all DLG employees welcome new initiative, we managed to significantly instruments and tools that can reduce the number of occupational simplify their workflows and make their accidents in 2019 compared to 2018. working lives safer. This is therefore At the same time, the duration of the also something we would like to be resulting periods of sick leave ambitious about. declined. In 2019, we registered 15 occupational accidents in Denmark resulting in absence, compared to 23 in 2018. The total number of accidents 46 DLG Group CSR Report 2019 130 VILOFOSS ACCIDENTS WITH AT LEAST ONE DAY OF ABSENCE SVENSKA FODER 5 0 DLG 15 HAGE 47 TEAM 47 DLG Group CSR Report 2019 47 The DLG Group is one of Europe’s largest agricultural companies. We create value for our owners and customers as the farmer’s preferred partner. We will set the direction among Europe’s leading agricultural companies. We will be an indispensable element of the world’s most important business. The Group is bound together by our core values. We are trustworthy, value-creating and ambitious in everything we do. DLG a.m.b.a. • Vesterbrogade 4A •DK-1620 Copenhagen V • www.dlg.dk • CVR no. 24 24 69 30 B20001
