UNGC 2019/20 Marcura’s Commitment to The United Nations’ Global Compact UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2019/20: CSR at Marcura Copyright © 2020 The Marcura Group 1 UNGC 2019/20 CEO’S REVIEW CEO’s Review and governance (ESG) best practices which Looking inwards, Marcura continue to Maritime Compliance as a Service – MCaaS) fulfill our commitment to the Principles. recognize the merits of remote work and, and proprietary platforms, including Marcura fortunately, the events of 2020 have proven Enhanced Governance System (MEGS). Towards human rights, we have taken a very that Marcura is a resilient Group able to MEGS is our dedicated master data and conscious decision to improve the gender work entirely distributed. We have a robust due diligence platform, powered by a diversity across the organisations. We set remote work strategy and we are pleased combination of in-house and third-party ourselves hard targets and are proud to to report that, notwithstanding the global tools built on the three pillars of governance, report that the initiative has taken off with challenges of 2020, we have continued to operational excellence, and compliance. an impressive start. This initiative has been provide an uninterrupted service to our MEGS is designed to help support and embraced across the organisation, and customers. We have seen that remote enhance our customers compliance with we are keenly looking to identify specific Dear Reader, working has led to major benefits for the regulations related to sanctions, antiactions that will help make Marcura a climate and we recognise that remote bribery & corruption, anti-money laundering, more gender diverse organization. The Marcura Group is pleased to share working can be at the heart of carbon tax evasion and fraud prevention. its 2019/2020 UNGC Communication In 2019 and in-keeping with our commitment reduction from eliminating the commute to We have invested heavily in teams of on Progress report. We continue the to protecting the environment, we identified work, reducing the consumption of paper, trained SMEs and technology platforms direction set in 2012 by our flagship actions that we needed to take to reduce not to mention a better work/life balance of so we can offer our services as a costcompany, DA-Desk, of upholding the our carbon footprint. We have very ambitious numerous colleagues who would otherwise effective “utility provider” to the industry. UNGC’s Ten Principles by embedding yet tangible targets to reduce international spend hours on travelling to work and back. them into the fabric of our Group. travel in the Group. Rather than a blanket Remote work also enables us to attract and 2020 has seen an unprecedented set travel, we made the decision to move closer retain the best talent from across the world. of global events that will change the We continue our annual practice of to our customers, many of whom share way business is conducted. Marcura enabling UNGC Teams led by volunteers The use of remote working tools are the same ESG-related values as we do, to has succeeded in maintaining business across the Globe. They meet regularly widely available across Marcura and the reduce the frequency of contacts, by having continuity whilst keeping our staff safe. As to find ways to convert and integrate events of 2020 have served to propel our more efficient and virtual interactions. with all industries, there will be implications the Principles into everyday practices move towards our “Remote First” plan. across our industry, but we look forward to within our Group. Named after the pillars Marcura continues to lead the drive towards This plan opens exciting opportunities help support our customers and business underlying the Principles, Marcura’s UNGC digitalization and elimination of the tons for customers and colleagues in spite partners to find the “new normal”. Teams are a vital part of our sense of of documentation passing back and forth of the challenges we may face. civic duty as a global corporate citizen. between vendors, agents and operators On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to submit Marcura sits as a hub at the intersection of which is common practice the shipping to the UNGC the 2019-2020 Communication This year we decided to take our work a millions of counterparty transactions in the industry. This effort has not only resulted on Progress Report for The Marcura Group. step further and explore initiatives which will shipping industry. Therefore, to help combat in our customers’ benefiting from direct have a long term impact on our organization, anti-corruption, we continue to remain, and cost savings but much more importantly our markets as well as the communities we has become a foundation for many larger help our customers remain, compliant. Jens Lorens Poulsen work in, by building responsible business digital initiatives in the entire industry. For the benefit of our customers, we have Group CEO practices based on environmental, social compliance-oriented services (such as Copyright © 2020 The Marcura Group 2 UNGC 2019/20 ABOUT THE MARCURA GROUP About this Report About The Marcura Group We at The Marcura Group (the “Group” Policies, Practical Actions The Marcura Group provides the maritime Our team of over 600 colleagues include or “Marcura”) are pleased to present and Outcomes industry with operational support services maritime operations experts, software our Communication on Progress Report. and specialised cloud-based platforms – developers, scientists, engineers and From June 2019 to May 2020, our Group’s The following pages provide an overview all managed 24/7 by industry specialists. data analysts from 40 nationalities – all companies and employees continually of how we apply practical actions, planned Working closely with our customers and committed to supporting the frontline of the sought to enhance our adherence to the projects and initiatives aligned with the partners enables us to develop innovative maritime industry. Ten Principles of the UNGC under the principles of UNGC. solutions to industry challenges, and Working seamlessly with our customers’ four pillars of: This Report gives an overview of activities consistently raise standards – together. voyage management systems, our digital and initiatives across our offices in Dubai Founded in 2001 and headquartered in shipping platforms enable companies to more • Environment (UAE), Mumbai (India), London (UK), and Dubai, our Group includes the port cost holistically manage fixtures, connect charter • Human Rights our other cities around the world. For more management platform, DA-Desk; our party details with port call execution, manage information about UNGC, visit supplier-vetting and procurement services documentation, monitor performance and • Labour www.unglobalcompact.org. provider, PortsDirect; and a maritimecomply with regulatory requirements. • Anti-corruption focused payment solution offering secure, Our founding principles are still our core efficient and cost-effective international values. Our scale enables us to invest in data payments, MarTrust. Our other platforms curation and management for increased provide structured cash management, transparency, while our customers require fixture management, business intelligence our independence from the shipping value and maritime compliance-related services. chain and value our impartiality when availing Together, we serve over 350 shipping of our compliance-orientated services. companies, trading houses, mining companies and oil majors – making 180,000 port calls handled by 7,500 Agents – who optimize their voyage execution with us. Copyright © 2020 The Marcura Group 3 V UNGC 2019/20 IMPLEMENTING THE TEN GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES Implementing the Ten Global Compact Principles Since 2001, we’ve helped transform •W e are an Associate Member of We continuously focus on our people, Each employee is kept up to date port cost management practices and INTERTANKO, a shipping industry forum hiring experienced knowledge workers with training and information on new establish new standards for efficiency working for safe transport, cleaner seas and practitioners who deeply understand compliance regulations and processes, and oversight in the industry. With and free competition. the shipping industry. With a growing anti-bribery and fraud prevention. Every number of international offices and staff member goes through a training no connection to port suppliers, port Outreach to our network continues to be a remote-working options, we offer process which introduces them to the agents, port authorities or shipping key focus for our UNGC teams, who strive employees flexibility and opportunity for business and concludes with the signing companies, our independence allows to both inspire and to be inspired. We career progression. The Group is a multiof our Group Code of Conduct. us to avoid any conflicts of interest. believe that our efforts to reduce businesscultural workplace with 40 nationalities related travel have a substantial impact As part of our commitment to represented. on the environment. Conducting meetings transparency, governance and compliance, virtually, if agreed with partners and we have joined organisations that share customers, will have a continuous effect our values: year-on-year. • We are a signatory to the UN Global Compact. • We belong to the Maritime AntiCorruption Network, which is working towards the vision of a maritime industry free of corruption. • We hold an associate membership UNGC COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN in BIMCO, which promotes fair The Marcura Group’s business practices, free trade and Jens Lorens Poulsen, UNGC COMMITTEE UNGC Committee DEPUTY CHAIR access to markets. Group CEO Felix Antero, Group GC & CCO HUMAN RIGHTS & ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION LABOUR TEAM TEAM TEAM Ali M. Mehdi Shraddha Tandel Mark Franklin Ashwin Kanianthra Adarsh Das Sony Antony Aleksander Niemas Paula Cuevas rtification Deepali Agnihotri Henna Patel 42-1856 BIMCO Copyright © 2020 The Marcura Group 4 UNGC 2019/20 ENVIRONMENT Environment Although we do not operate maritime Using Data to Support Digital Contract Execution vessels, we support the protection of the Environment and Signing the marine environment by helping our For any given vessel and voyage, fuel We also help the environment by using We have forged a closer relationship with customers in their operations. We are also efficiency is more granular than just digital tools in contract development, key maritime organizations, which have pleased to be helping the industry shift consumption and waste. Unnecessary time in negotiations, amendments and execution. expressed interest in our independent, towards more fuel-efficient transportation. port means more fuel wasted. Needless loss Our proprietary software minimises secure, cloud-based maritime contract of time may stem from weather conditions, the volume of physical contracts and management solution, MarDocs. queues or even choice of terminal. Our agreements, and our secure digitised solution is a suite of digital tools that agreements are instant and paperless. facilitate collaboration among Charterers, Furthermore, our algorithms crossCommitment, Policies and Goals Owners, Masters and Agents. Better check historical traffic flow within a • We protect our environment. communication improves efficient transport port against weather patterns and of goods and fuel within the harbour. • We support innovative developments other variables, helping ships time their in shipping, creating platforms for arrival. We also check efficiency levels digital exchange of information and at specific terminals, which vary widely. communication to reduce the use of This results in faster turnarounds at paper. port and significant fuel savings. Our unrivalled historical and global port data • We aim to reduce waste. enable customers to save hundreds of thousands annually. Marcura’s data-driven innovations are helping the industry and the environment. Copyright © 2020 The Marcura Group 5 UNGC 2019/20 ENVIRONMENT Environment Actions and activities Marine Pollution Together with a fresh team of volunteers • We circulated a video to spread awareness from across the Group, we launched a about the harmful effects of plastic, Macura Group new set of initiatives in November 2019. particularly on marine environments – a Based on past experiences and learnings cause very close to our heart at Marcura. from previous UNGC teams, we decided The campaign led to a tangible and to focus on fewer themes which will have achievable set of actions any individual a more sustainable long-term impact on can take. the environment. • We launched ‘The Plastic Pledge’ to which Under the UNGC banner, we continue many Marcurians across the Group signed up. to engage in regular activities that we • We continue to spread our message of believe make an impact, reinforcing combating marine pollution internally awareness amongst colleagues and and externally. Our future goals are to partners along the way. Reducing marine actively engage with customers and pollution and carbon emissions was our business partners to build wider industry main theme for 2019-2020. momentum. • On 14th December 2019, Marcura participated in the UAE Government initiative to clean up beaches in Dubai. An enthusiastic team of 24 participants from Marcura joined hands to do their part for the local environment. Copyright © 2020 The Marcura Group 6 UNGC 2019/20 ENVIRONMENT Environment Carbon Emissions • As part of our drive to reduce the Group’s • In 2019 we conducted organisationstorage costs. We estimate combined carbon emissions, we conducted a deep wide surveys which revealed a strong annual savings of approximately US$1.8m. dive into the Group’s travel data. Sales preference for flexible and remote • As of May 2020, we have almost and key account management – both working. We presented the findings completely eliminated the physical essential to our business – travelled the into remote working, which can reduce shipment of hard copies, which also has most, so we proposed staff travelling six unnecessary commuting, congestion and led to improved turnaround times. times a year each make one less trip. Staff fuel consumption, whilst safeguarding taking over 20 trips a year, committed the productivity and health of Marcurians • Marcura now use DocuSign for external to making two trips less. This led to a and their families. Senior leadership contracts and various internal documents, 10% reduction in our CO2 emissions immediately accepted the proposed except where it is a statutory requirement (approximately 3,000 kg of CO2e). processes and technologies. to adopt wet signatures. By promoting electronic signatures, we’ve helped save • Our targets for the year were exceeded millions in wood and water consumption due to the global Covid-19 lockdowns, Digitalisation and reduction of as well as reduce carbon dioxide which in turn have led to an even stronger paper waste: emission. In the past year alone, the commitment amongst our stakeholders Group has sent nearly 2,000 documents •O  ver the past few years, DA-Desk has to increase remote collaboration and for electronic signatures, eliminating the encouraged customers and stakeholders minimise air travel. The majority of our shipment and use of paper products for to use digital rather than physical customers and partners support reducing the execution of these documents. documentation. in-person meetings in favour of phone or video conferences – another sign that •W  e continue digitising disbursement •T he Board has adopted a ‘Digital Board’ business travel is changing significantly accounts and supporting documents, portal which allow sharing of board-related and perhaps permanently. facilitating and meeting local statutory documents, increase security, promote requirements. collaboration, and more efficiently organize •T he Group was well prepared to remote meetings and manage postcommence remote work and has been •T  his digitalisation drive has dramatically meeting activities and discussions. fully operational since day one of the cut time in preparing and handling lockdown. The entire network went remote paperwork, reduced the cross-order within 24 hours – even when this was not shipment of documents and reduced government mandated – safeguarding colleagues, families and society. Copyright © 2020 The Marcura Group 7 UNGC 2019/20 HUMAN RIGHTS & LABOUR Human Rights & Labour Respect for human rights is fundamental We recognise that respecting human Commitment, Policies and Goals aspect of our culture. We employ a rights is a continuous process which We respect our colleagues, our multicultural group of professionals we always strive to improve. No employees and our customers. Our and our Code of Conduct outlines the discrimination is allowed based on gender, policies seek to uphold and promote behaviour expected of every employee at ethnicity, religion, race, nationality or human rights in accordance with the all levels. Our employees act with integrity; physical disability. UNGC through these practices: we expect them to conduct business We are especially pleased with how affairs legally, ethically and responsibly. •U  pholding our values and standards MarTrust have helped to support this through constant communication In practical terms, our policies prohibit UNGC pillar. MarTrust customers no with customers. us from paying money to or receiving longer need to worry about crew families money from the suppliers whose invoices not receiving salaries on time. Delayed • Encouraging our employees to grow we audit on behalf of our customers. payments have been a longstanding professionally and personally. This way, we can be certain that we do problem in the maritime world, because • Respecting human rights, including the not take part in unlawful or unethical of the vast complexities of moving money prevention of harassment, physical or practices that are harmful to our across borders and time zones, languages, mental punishment, or other forms customers, to the maritime industry, or banking systems, rates and currencies. of abuse. to society. As part of our commitment, the Group has also implemented a • Fair remuneration (which may include Reporting System where all employees the provision to employees of housing are encouraged to report any suspicions or housing allowance, medical of unlawful or unethical behaviour. insurance, repatriation and end-ofservice gratuity). Copyright © 2020 The Marcura Group 8 UNGC 2019/20 HUMAN RIGHTS & LABOUR Human Rights & Labour Actions and activities • We also engaged our female colleagues • All offices now offer complimentary • Our Mumbai office has engaged a and hosted a worldwide video conference feminine hygiene products. professional crèche service in the Improving gender diversity is a key theme last December during the UNGC same compound as the office, so our for our organization. As of September • We are applying learnings from a Human Rights Day. Highly engaged, colleagues have the option to bring their 2019, 19.5% of our staff across the Group study by Lisa Abraham and Alison participants shared challenges and children to this facility and attend to are female. While it will take years to Stein (‘Words Matter: Experimental victories experienced by woman in a them during working hours. significantly increase the percentage, evidence from job applications’) on how male-dominated industry. This session gender ratio is top priority across the seemingly simple actions (such as job • We held our annual general health camps helped inspire and inform us as to how Group. Our target is to improve gender listing wording) have an impact on how in Dubai and have scheduled one in we can make Marcura more engaging diversity by 0.5% by December 2022. The many female candidates apply. Mumbai for 2020. These camps offer staff for our female colleagues. We have since baseline numbers are: 20.5% for Dubai; a convenient and safe way to get regular identified a group of colleagues to form a • We recognize colleagues must feel safe 17% for Mumbai; and 31% for the rest of health checks. support system for new hires. and confident commuting. We held selfthe Group. Some of the relevant initiatives defense courses for all female employees • We held courses in Fire Safety and we have undertaken include the following: • Management and Group HR have in our Mumbai office with certified preliminary First Aid, and our offices proposed the introduction of remote • We considered how we can change trainers. The courses were extremely are equipped with first aid equipment working and flexible timing, which we our work environment to attract and popular, giving colleagues impactful tools meeting industry standards. hope will attract more women who need retain more female colleagues. We’re to protect themselves – with some fun to care for their children. • Our Group Code of Conduct clearly working with Group HR to identify any and banter. We intend to conduct further upholds respect for employees and wider unintended but intrinsic biases in our training in the coming year. society. Forming part of our induction hiring processes or staffing policies. process and is included in our mandatory “The participants were e-learning platform. overwhelmed after their learnings in the 3-hour session, and I must say that the knowledge gained is priceless.” Copyright © 2020 The Marcura Group 9 UNGC 2019/20 ANTI-CORRUPTION Anti-Corruption Commitment, Policies and Goals Actions and activities We have also incorporated an antiGDPR Compliance corruption and sanctions compliance • We comply with anti-corruption laws. We believe our services have a positive Regulation (EU) 2016/679, more clause in our contracts which require our impact in fighting corruption in the maritime commonly known as the General Data • We are committed to acting ethically counterparties to abide by all applicable industry. Our anti-corruption focus is Protection Regulation (GDPR), came into and legally, regardless of where we international anti-corruption and embedded in our business processes. force on 25th May 2018. It standardizes do business. This means, in part, sanctions laws. data protection law across all the that we abide by all international DA-Desk helps manage port spend for Marcura is an active member of leading member states of the European Union anti-corruption laws, treaties and hundreds of thousands of port calls organisations such as MACN and BIMCO, and imposes new rules with respect to regulations that prohibit bribery, across the world, involving thousands which actively take a stand against the control and processing of personally improper payments or kickbacks. of shipping agents. The foundation of corruption. We participate in collective identifiable information (PII). our service is to validate each and every • We are strongly committed to actions where we can contribute. line item of port costs and supporting In complying with GDPR, The Marcura combating corruption in all its forms. tariffs against historical benchmarks, Group has taken steps and initiated We believe that corruption undermines reviewing the supporting documentation Quality and process excellence: various measures to comply with its democracy, the rule of law and the and ensuring only legitimate costs are obligations, including but not limited to: proper operation of free markets. All significant business and operational incurred and claimed. processes are compliant with ISO • Becoming ISO 27001 certified; • Our dedicated Group Legal & PortsDirect vets suppliers for the benefit standards. We have an internal audit team Compliance Department works full-time • Appointing an external Data Protection of its customers. PortsDirect-contracted that conducts regular reviews of this on compliance-related tasks Officer who comes with a strong suppliers must be able to provide pass a compliance, in addition to the external and initiatives. track record and works regularly with rigorous screening process that takes into certification reviews. We are currently the National Cyber Security Centre • Our internal Code of Conduct prohibits account not just operational capabilities certified for the following ISO standards: (NCSC), National Crime Agency (NCA) all forms of bribery in the workplace. but also historical and continuing ISO/IEC 9001:2015 Quality management and the Information Commissioner’s compliance with applicable regulations. • Our Reporting System not only allows systems (QMS) Office (ICO); for a way of reporting unethical Additionally, Marcura offers platform-based ISO/IEC 27001:2013 – Information • Appointing a full-time Data Governance or unlawful behaviour within the data services which have made tariff and security management systems (ISMS) Officer; organisation, it also has a sophisticated cost of operations in ports around the Gifts Register function allowing our world more granular and transparent. This We are preparing to be certified for: • Forming a GDPR Task Force to better colleagues to disclose any gift or offers the market a level playing field, prepare the business units of the Group hospitality that they send or receive ISO 45001:2018 Occupational health for both substantive and procedural enabling informed decision making and in the performance of their functions and safety (OH&S) management systems GDPR compliance; eliminating undue facilitation or costs. within the Group. ISO 14001:2015 Environmental management systems Copyright © 2020 The Marcura Group 10 UNGC 2019/20 ANTI-CORRUPTION Anti-Corruption • Registering voluntarily with the UK’s • Extending cyber insurance policy Due Diligence Regulations Our proprietary platform called MEGS Information Commissioner’s Office to provide coverage with respect to (Marcura Entity Governance System) The maritime industry carries a heavy (ICO), the country’s independent NDPA the Group’s obligations under the serves as a central, dedicated master responsibility of ensuring compliance set up to uphold information rights in laws relating to the regulation and data system for KYC due diligence. with an ever-growing list of regulations. the public and the protection of data enforcement of data protection and data MEGS is designed to help support and These regulations emphasize, among privacy for individuals; privacy not just in Europe but also any enhance our customers’ anti-financial others, the importance of substantively country where the Group operates; crime (AFC) compliance. We have • Completing Data Protection Impact conducting proper due diligence and invested heavily in Subject Matter Assessments to identify, assess and • Migrating to a new hosting provider, KYC (“Know Your Customers” or “Know Experts and technology platforms so we minimize or mitigate privacy risks one of the world’s best. As a result, all Your Counterparties”) and its new can offer our services as a cost-effective related to its data processing activities; Group data is now housed on secured offspring, KYCC (“Know Your Customers’ ‘utility provider’ to the industry. off-site servers operated by a GDPRCustomers”). They also require that • Preparing a GDPR-specific set of compliant service provider in the UK. sufficient evidentiary basis exists to policies and procedures to deal with The Group’s hosting provider limits prove that a company conducts riskdata requests and data breaches; access to its customers’ data by means based due diligence in all its dealings as • Preparing Data Processing Agreements of physical protection through biometric part of its compliance program. and conducting third-party GDPR authentication, surveillance and 24-hour assessments; At Marcura, we provide compliancesecurity; and oriented services through MCaaS and • Conducting training on privacy, • Installing regular internal audits to our proprietary regulatory technology confidentiality and security; ensure continuing compliance. solutions powered by data from companies like Dow Jones and Accuity in order to help our customers navigate risks related to corruption, money laundering and terrorist financing, sanctions, fraud and other financial crimes. Copyright © 2020 The Marcura Group 11 We are interested in knowing what you Jens Lorens Poulsen think about our 2019/20 Communication Group CEO, Marcura on Progress Report. We value your +971-4-363-6200 feedback, which will be used for analysis j.poulsen@marcura.com and further improvements. Please send your feedback to our Felix J. Antero contacts below or email info@marcura. Group General Counsel & com. For more information about The Chief Compliance Officer Marcura Group, visit www.marcura.com. +971-4-701-7050 f.antero@marcura.com Copyright © 2020 The Marcura Group
