Sustainability Report 2019 Charter Hall Group July 2018-June 2019 CEO message FY19 highlights About us Our approach Environment Social Governance TCFD Performance data Ten Principles of the UNGC GRI index Assurance statement CEO message 4 Governance 34 How we create value 7 TCFD 40 FY19 highlights 8 Performance data 43 About us 10 Ten Principles of the UNGC 77 Contents Our approach 14 GRI index 80 Environment 18 Assurance statement 85 Social 25 About this report This is our eighth annual sustainability report. Unless otherwise stated, environmental data in this It covers the business activities of the Charter Hall report pertains exclusively to the assets and activities Group’s managed property funds and assets, within Charter Hall’s operational control, and does for the financial year ending 30 June 2019 (FY19). not include data for outside entities, such as tenants, suppliers and contractors. In some material cases information is provided on events that took place after the close of the In preparing this report, we have been guided by financial year. the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) sustainability reporting standards (Core option). For further details General disclosures relate to Charter Hall Group on our disclosures, please refer to the GRI Index. and its managed funds. Specific disclosures may be at Group level, or assigned to particular asset Charter Hall commissioned Deloitte Australia classes (office, industrial, retail), as noted. to provide assurance across a selection of our FY19 non-financial performance metrics, including In FY19, we acquired the Folkestone funds environmental, people and safety. Our assurance management business, which included a number of statement is available on page 85. listed and unlisted property funds, with properties within Australia and New Zealand. In November 2018, the trust changed its name to Charter Hall Education Trust (ASX: CQE). 2 Charter Hall Group Sustainability Report July 2018-June 2019 For us, sustainability is the way we deliver against our purpose, to secure a better future for all. Our values drive all of us to think bigger and go further. 3 Charter Hall Group Sustainability Report July 2018-June 2019 CEO message FY19 highlights About us Our approach Environment Social Governance TCFD Performance data Ten Principles of the UNGC GRI index Assurance statement CEO message At Charter Hall we’re all about achieving better Our new purpose, developed with our Our stabilised assets (like-for-like), in investors, tenants and employees, is office, have reduced their electricity futures and mutual success. It’s a philosophy that about creating better futures through intensity by 3% improving our office underpins our operating model and our commitment bringing aspirations to life. Supporting portfolio NABERS Energy rating to a 4.77 to all our stakeholders. our purpose and guiding our decisions Star weighted average, and maintaining a are our four values of active partnership, retail portfolio of 3.9 Star NABERS Energy genuine insight, inventive spirit and weighted average rating. During the powered by drive. year, we entered into a Power Purchase Agreement to install solar PV across 14 Sustainability is an important part of the of our shopping centre assets, which will way we deliver on our purpose. deliver 40% of their energy needs. Our investment in high performing We are also investigating opportunities sustainable assets continues to produce to work with our tenant customers and increased value for our investors, tenants contractors to reduce their emissions and communities. We’ve carefully curated outside of our control (Scope 3 emissions) a $30.4 billion diverse portfolio of over continuing our active partnership with 840 high quality, long leased properties, our customers and expansion of our including expanding our reach into social investment in renewable energy across our infrastructure, through the acquisition retail, industrial and office portfolios. of the $1.6 billion Folkestone funds management business platform in FY19. During the year we reviewed the way we operate our business and enable our Amongst our highlights for FY19, I am people to thrive. I am pleased to share that pleased to announce that we have set we received strong results in employee a target of 100% reduction in emissions engagement as well as in our culture and within Charter Hall direct control (Scope risk index, which were above the national 1 and Scope 2) by 2030. In addition, we and global industry benchmarks. This have built on what was already Australia’s result reflects how the energy, growth and largest Green Star footprint, significantly performance of our Group are fuelled by increased renewable energy usage in our our culture and our people. David Harrison assets, and carried out climate change Managing Director adaptation planning across our office, and Group Chief retail and industrial portfolios. Executive Officer 4 Charter Hall Group Sustainability Report July 2018-June 2019 CEO message FY19 highlights About us Our approach Environment Social Governance TCFD Performance data Ten Principles of the UNGC GRI index Assurance statement CEO message (continued) We are focused on the health and In FY19 we undertook a Board endorsed safety of our customers and employees investigation into the Taskforce for and increasing our investment in the Climate-related Financial Disclosures international WELL Standard, including (TCFD) Framework and as a result, we rating our new and existing spaces. In are now preparing to align with the TCFD doing so, we are delivering outstanding recommendations. This report provides an environments for our customers and overview of our climate strategy, alongside employees. disclosures on our progress to date. Consistent with our purpose, our I’m proud of our proven ability to create commitment to the philanthropic sustainable long-term value for our movement Pledge 1% continues to stakeholders, which is demonstrated in grow. Across our property portfolio, we our progress against our sustainability provided over $1.8 million (or 37,997sqm strategies outlined in this report. I invite of space) for community, health and you to read the report, which provides a wellbeing activities and invested $775,000 detailed overview of our progress to date in partnerships providing community and outlines our plans and aspirations for programs and services. Together with our the years ahead. customers, our retail centres also raised $196,000 to support drought affected communities. Our people remain highly engaged in the communities we operate in volunteering their time and skills as part of our Pledge 1%. 1 Shelley Street, Sydney We understand the role we play in creating systemic change by preventing modern David Harrison slavery and safeguarding human rights Managing Director through our operations and supply and Group Chief Executive Officer chain. This year we implemented our human rights framework and became a signatory to the UN Global Compact. Our contribution also extended to participation in an industry-wide collaboration led by the Property Council of Australia to implement an approach to addressing modern slavery risks across the property sector. 5 Charter Hall Group Sustainability Report July 2018-June 2019 Think Bigger 6 Charter Hall Group Sustainability Report July 2018-June 2019 CEO message FY19 highlights About us Our approach Environment Social Governance TCFD Performance data Ten Principles of the UNGC GRI index Assurance statement How we create value Go Further What’s shaping our prospects In a rapidly changing world, we engage regularly with stakeholders to better understand the horizon risks and opportunities ahead. Do Better Environment Social Governance What Climate resilience Engagement and inclusion Responsible business What we do matters most We use our property expertise to access, deploy, manage and invest equity in real estate Our Act on climate change Increase the strength of Embed a high standard to create value and generate superior returns response communities of ethics into our actions for all our stakeholders. How Energy and carbon: Making our Investment: Pledging 1% to Governance: Ensuring we $30.4bn Funds Under Management we create buildings more energy efficient community initiatives deliver on our commitment to value and investing in renewables the UN Global Compact 844 Office, Industrial, Retail & Social Water: Conserving water Jobs: Creating more employment opportunities Compliance: Training all Infrastructure Properties resources employees in ethical behaviour Inclusion: Fostering a diverse, and standards $7bn Development Pipeline Completion Value Think Bigger Waste: Reducing waste and inclusive and agile workforce increasing recycling Data security: Protecting the Engagement: Investing in innovative 38,000+ Investor & Tenant Customers Resilience: Understanding ways to engage our stakeholders privacy of individuals and companies. and managing climate risk and adaptation. Wellbeing: Providing healthy, built We create better How we do it environments through our WELL rated buildings and partnerships futures by bringing Access – accessing equity from listed, wholesale and retail investors. Health and Safety: Improving the health and safety of our work aspirations to life. Deploy – creating value through attractive investment opportunities. environment. Manage – funds management, asset How we Reduction in greenhouse gas Pledge 1% metrics Annual UN Global Compact and What guides us management, leasing and development services. measure emissions and resource use Modern Slavery statements Diversity metrics We’re driven to make a difference, unlocking our Invest – investing alongside our capital partners. Benchmarking against Implementing measures potential through partnership, insight and new success Engagement and culture metrics NABERS and Green Star on customer, investor and ways of thinking. standards employee satisfaction Tenant and investor satisfaction Active partnership Who we do it for Percent of assets covered by WELL accreditation 100% employee ethics Genuine insight – Employees adaptation plans compliance training – Investors Health and safety data Inventive spirit – Tenants – Suppliers Alignment to international standards Powered by drive – Local communities – Government and industry Read more at charterhall.com.au/About-Us Information provided in this graphic is correct at 30 June 2019. 7 Charter Hall Group Sustainability Report July 2018-June 2019 CEO message FY19 highlights About us Our approach Environment Social Governance TCFD Performance data Ten Principles of the UNGC GRI index Assurance statement FY19 Highlights Environment Social Governance Emissions reduction target Pledge 1% achievements Signatory to UN Global Compact 100% reduction targets developed for Scope 1 67% of our employees engaged in 378 employee Launched our new purpose and values and Scope 2 emissions, by 2030, from volunteer days base buildings in Charter Hall direct operational control1 81 % Risk Culture Index Energy efficient buildings $1.8m Above the Australian National and 4.77star Global High Performance Norm or 37,997sqm of space utilised by community organisations, and for health 100% Increased Office portfolio NABERS Energy and wellbeing activities ratings weighted average, up from 4.66 star in FY18 Employee engagement in compliance training Onsite renewable energy $775,000 5.2 MW solar PV installed across the office, industrial and invested in community programs and services Developed our human rights framework retail portfolio, generating 7,598MWh of electricity per annum (equivalent to powering 507 homes) 87% employee engagement 1 Emissions from our base building that are in Charter Hall direct operational control, related to energy use and refrigerants include: Scope 1: Gas, diesel and refrigerants from our base buildings and operations, and Scope 2: Electricity purchased for our base buildings and operations in our control. 8 Charter Hall Group Sustainability Report July 2018-June 2019 Do Better 9 Charter Hall Group Sustainability Report July 2018-June 2019 CEO message FY19 highlights About us Our approach Environment Social Governance TCFD Performance data Ten Principles of the UNGC GRI index Assurance statement Who we are At Charter Hall we believe in going above and beyond, doing more to help our tenants, investors, our people and the communities we operate in realise their full potential. As a Group, Charter Hall Group listed on the Partnership and financial discipline are at Our purpose and values Australian Stock Exchange in 2005 under the heart of our approach. We’ve carefully We create better futures by bringing aspirations to life. the ASX Code: CHC. Charter Hall Group is curated a $30.4 billion diverse portfolio of a stapled security comprising a share in 844 high quality, long leased properties. Charter Hall Limited (CHL), the operating Acting in the best interests of customers business, and a unit in Charter Hall Property and communities, we combine insight and Trust (CHPT), which predominantly co– inventive spirit to unlock hidden value. Taking invests in the funds and partnerships a long-term view, our $7 billion development managed by the Group. pipeline is expected to deliver sustainable, We use our property expertise to access, technologically enabled projects for deploy, manage and invest equity across our customers. Active Genuine Inventive Powered our core sectors – office, retail, industrial Partnership Insight Spirit by Drive The impacts of what we do are far reaching. and logistics and social infrastructure. From helping businesses succeed by supporting their evolving workplace needs, to providing investors with superior returns for a better retirement, we’re powered by the drive to go further. 10 Charter Hall Group Sustainability Report July 2018-June 2019 CEO message FY19 highlights About us Our approach Environment Social Governance TCFD Performance data Ten Principles of the UNGC GRI index Assurance statement Our funds management portfolio Our funds cover multiple categories, including Asset type diversification Diversification by equity source unlisted direct property funds, listed property funds and unlisted wholesale funds. Our listed funds are as follows: $0.4bn $4.0bn $5.0bn –– Charter Hall Group (ASX:CHC) 1% 13% 16% –– Charter Hall Retail REIT (ASX:CQR) $1.4bn 5% –– Charter Hall Long WALE REIT (ASX: CLW), and $2.9bn 10% –– Charter Hall Education Trust (ASX: CQE). Over FY19 our property portfolio grew to 844 assets across office, retail, industrial and social infrastructure asset classes. $30.4bn $30.4bn Our FY19 acquisition of Folkestone funds management business, which included a number of listed and unlisted funds, makes us the largest Australian property trust investing in social infrastructure properties within Australia and New Zealand. $14.1bn $7.6bn $6.3bn $19.1bn For more information on our fund portfolio, 46% 25% 21% 63% including our unlisted direct property funds, please visit: charterhall.com.au/investments/funds Shopping Centre Retail Wholesale Equity Long WALE Retail Listed Fund Industrial Retail Equity Office Social Infrastructure Other 11 Charter Hall Group Sustainability Report July 2018-June 2019 CEO message FY19 highlights About us Our approach Environment Social Governance TCFD Performance data Ten Principles of the UNGC GRI index Assurance statement Our property portfolio NT Office QLD Office 17 Retail 1 Retail 51 Industrial 1 Industrial 30 We maintain Australia’s largest Green Star Social Infrastructure 2 Social Infrastructure 134 footprint, which continues to grow across NABERS1 Retail2 NABERS1 Office 4.59 our Office, Industrial and Retail portfolios. NABERS1 Retail2 4.70 WA NSW Office 7 Office 20 CHC National Office Retail 25 Retail 50 4.77 stars NABERS1 Energy NT Industrial 22 Industrial 50 Weighted Average Rating $0.1bn Social Infrastructure 19 Social infrastructure 92 4 Properties QLD NABERS Office 1 4.71 Other 2 $5.9bn CHC National Retail 232 Properties NABERS Retail 1 2 3.50 NABERS1 Office 4.82 3.75 stars NABERS1 Energy NABERS 1 Retail2 3.60 Weighted Average Rating WA $3.1bn 73 Properties SA SA ACT Office 4 Office 2 $1.3bn 52 Properties NSW Retail 9 Retail 4 $12.6bn Industrial 9 Social infrastructure 2 214 Properties Social Infrastructure 30 NABERS Office 1 4.50 ACT NABERS1 Office 5.39 NABERS1 Retail2 4.50 $0.4bn 8 Properties NABERS Retail 1 2 4.70 VIC $6.7bn 199 Properties VIC TAS Office 14 Office 2 Retail 31 Retail 7 1  NABERS refers to the average weighted area rating for NABERS Energy per state. NABERS Energy ratings completed on all eligible office and retail assets over $0.4bn Industrial 49 Industrial 2 15,000 sqm. 13 Properties TAS 2 The FY19 NABERS rating for Retail sites were not available at the time of publishing Social Infrastructure 104 Social Infrastructure 2 this report. The FY19 ratings will be updated online once available. NABERS1 Office 4.84 NABERS1 Office 3.00 Information correct at 30 June 2019. NABERS1 Retail2 3.80 12 Charter Hall Group Sustainability Report July 2018-June 2019 Go Further 13 Charter Hall Group Sustainability Report June 2018-July 2019 CEO message FY19 highlights About us Our approach Environment Social Governance TCFD Performance data Ten Principles of the UNGC GRI index Assurance statement Our management approach F  or us, sustainability is the way we deliver against our purpose, to secure a better future for all. Our values The Charter Hall Group Board has overarching responsibility for the drive all of us to think bigger Group’s sustainability governance, which extends from the Board and and go further. its committees through the Executive Team and divisional management to our employees, contractors and suppliers. Sustainability governance Roles and responsibilities Some aspects of sustainability – such as Aligning with the UN Global Compact modern slavery and diversity and inclusion Corporate policies and procedures are The Executive Team has ultimate In March 2019, we became a signatory – are whole-of-business issues that apply developed and reported through the responsibility for ensuring we deliver on our to the United Nations Global Compact across all teams, with ultimate responsibility Charter Hall Audit Risk and Compliance sustainability commitments, including those (UNGC). We are committed to aligning our vesting with the Executive Team and Board. Committee (ARCC), the Remuneration defined within our Group Sustainability strategy, culture and day-to-day operations and Human Resources Committee (RHRC) Policy. Charter Hall Environment, Social, Each of our managed funds has its own with UNGC principles on human rights, and the Board. The ARCC receives regular Governance (ESG) achievements and governance structure, which determines labour, environment and anti-corruption. updates from the Executive Team on considerations are reported to the Executive decision-making with regard to assets We also seek to participate where possible sustainability issues and initiatives. It also Committee, and quarterly to the CEO and within its portfolio. All funds adopt the Group in collaborative projects that advance the reviews strategies, policies and annual Managing Director. Sustainability Policy and generally delegate UN Sustainable Development Goals. sustainability reports for recommendation to day-to-day operational management to The Executive Team is supported by the Charter Hall Group. Management is the Board for approval. our fund, asset, operations and undertaken in accordance with Charter The full suite of Charter Hall Group corporate development teams, which embed the Hall Group policies, codes of conduct governance policies, codes of conduct and Group’s sustainability strategy into our and charters. charters is available on our website. As part day-to-day business. of this suite, the Group Sustainability Policy In our office and industrial portfolios, Our operations and capital works and we outsource facilities management to reflects our commitment to responsible and project teams are tasked with enhancing CBRE, which has a dedicated sustainability sustainable business practices. operational efficiency across our assets, manager responsible for tracking and Through our Supplier Code of Conduct while our asset and property management managing asset performance against introduced in February 2019, we promote teams manage our tenant customer spaces key sustainability criteria, with results on ethical, environmental and social standards to meet their needs. Our development team asset performance reported to us monthly. throughout our supply chain, including is responsible for designing, developing Role-specific sustainability KPIs also exist in our relationship with contractors, suband delivering assets that are operationally for managers and employees. We seek to contractors, consultants and suppliers. efficient and align with customer avoid any activity or action which would expectations. contravene our governance requirements. 14 Charter Hall Group Sustainability Report July 2018-June 2019 CEO message FY19 highlights About us Our approach Environment Social Governance TCFD Performance data Ten Principles of the UNGC GRI index Assurance statement Our material topics We regularly scan our horizons for both emerging and recognised sustainability topics that could be material to our business. We define a material issue as one that Topics were consolidated to streamline Materiality matrix has a direct or indirect impact on an and better organise our strategic approach organisation’s ability to create, preserve or under three pillars (Environment, Social and erode economic, environmental and social Governance). Further prioritisation focussed value for itself, its stakeholders and society on three material topics, which were Very High at large.1 considered to embrace all topics under Business Ethics the pillars and include climate resilience, and Compliance Our FY19 materiality process commenced Importance to External Stakeholders engagement and inclusion, and responsible GHG Diversity and with a review of global trends, desktop Emissions Energy Efficiency and Renewables business, which have been used to inform Inclusion research and industry benchmarking to and structure this report. Climate Change Adaptation develop a list of prospective material topics. Responsible and Sustainable Supply Chain Health, Safety and well-being We then surveyed internal and external We will continue the discussion on what is stakeholders, including investors, tenants material with our stakeholders in the coming Responsible Investment Waste Management Sustainable Growth and Returns and suppliers, to prioritise these topics, year to inform our strategy and plans. before validating results in a workshop For more on our stakeholder engagement Protecting the Natural Environment Water Management Employee Engagement and Satisfaction with internal cross-divisional stakeholders. see link.charterhall.com.au/stakeholder. Cyber Security and Customer Engagement Data Protection The results of our process are shown in and Satisfaction Community and Social Inclusion the following matrix. Local Economic Contributions Innovation and Technology High Employee Training and Development Importance to the business Topic category 1 https://www.triplepundit.com/story/2013/sustainability-reporting-what-does-good-look/49586 Environment Social Governance Economic 15 Charter Hall Group Sustainability Report July 2018-June 2019 CEO message FY19 highlights About us Our approach Environment Social Governance TCFD Performance data Ten Principles of the UNGC GRI index Assurance statement Our sustainability framework Environment Social Governance Material topic Climate resilience Engagement and inclusion Responsible business What this covers Resilience: understanding and managing climate Community: building inclusive communities Governance: business ethics and compliance change and environmental risk and adaptation and creating more employment opportunities Compliance: responsible and sustainable supply Energy and carbon: reducing emissions, investing Employee: creating great employee experiences chain and ethical behaviour and standards in renewables and more efficient buildings and a place where people belong Data security: actively protecting the privacy Water: conserving water resources Customer: creating inclusive spaces and of individuals and companies engaging experiences Waste: reducing waste and increasing recycling Wellbeing: caring for the health, safety and wellbeing of our people and customers Relevant Sustainable Development Goals1 Our response Act on climate change Increase the strength of our communities Embed a high standard of ethics into our actions What this means Like many companies, we’re responding by Charter Hall is committed to embedding a Our refreshed purpose and values strengthen accelerating efforts to embed low carbon targets culture of openness, alongside a safe, equitable our high ethical standards and our sustained within our business model. Our strategy and and inclusive environment for our employees, focus on our sustainable supply chain and investment decisions are also aligned with the partners, customers and community. ethical behaviour across our business for all UN Principles for Responsible Investment, whose stakeholders, including local communities, signatories collectively report over $80 trillion in tenants, employees, securityholders and assets under management. suppliers. 1 The materiality assessment process reconfirmed our previous prioritisation of SDGs 13 and 8, and now includes SDG 16. These three goals align with the three material topics we have identified, and the targets outlined under each of these goals were considered when formulating the sustainability actions and targets shared in this report. 16 Charter Hall Group Sustainability Report July 2018-June 2019 Environment 17 Charter Hall Group Sustainability Report July 2018-June 2019 CEO message FY19 highlights About us Our approach Environment Social Governance TCFD Performance data Ten Principles of the UNGC GRI index Assurance statement Environment Act on climate change The World Economic Forum’s Global Risk As global momentum grows for strong FY19 HIGHLIGHTS Report of 2019 ranked extreme weather action on climate change, we are increasing events and the failure of policies to address our climate resilience by: climate change as the top two high–– setting emission reduction targets probability, high-impact risks facing the world. This is backed by the findings of –– making our assets more energy efficient the United Nations (UN) Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) in its –– increasing our investment in renewables 2019 report. There is consensus that on our industrial, office and retail assets keeping global warming to well below –– partnering with our tenant customers to 2oC can be achieved by reducing Set a target of 100% reduction in Increased our renewable energy improve energy efficiency in our buildings Direct (Scope 1 and 2) emissions footprint in partnership with our greenhouse gas emissions from all sectors, by 2030 tenant customers and many companies like us are acting –– assessing and mitigating against to drive this change. the physical risks of climate change and developing adaptation plans for As a signatory to the UN Global Compact our assets we take a precautionary approach to addressing climate risks, and in alignment –– aligning with best practice frameworks, with the Sustainable Development Goal such as Green Star, NABERS and 13 – Climate Action, we’re responding WELL to demonstrate our environmental by strengthening the resilience and credentials and to enhance our adaptive capacity of our assets to climateoperational efficiency related risks. –– investigating disclosures in alignment Commenced Stage 1 solar Completed investigation into rollout program for retail across alignment with the Taskforce Charter Hall invests in high-performing, with the Task Force for Climate-related 15 shopping centres for Climate-related Financial environmentally efficient assets, and Financial Disclosure (TCFD). Disclosures (TCFD) Framework developing those that have high-performing potential, reflecting our long-term investment in our properties. We continue to hold the largest Green Star footprint in Australia and seek improvements in our Alignment with SDG13: NABERS energy and water ratings Climate Action for our portfolios. 18 Charter Hall Group Sustainability Report July 2018-June 2019 CEO message FY19 highlights About us Our approach Environment Social Governance TCFD Performance data Ten Principles of the UNGC GRI index Assurance statement Environment Resilience Issues Achievements for FY19 FY20 Target FY25 Target FY30 Target Addressing climate change risk Understanding and mitigating climate –– Climate change adaptation planning –– All office, retail and industrial –– Capital improvements in portfolio –– 100% reduction risks like sea-level rises and extreme underway across office, retail assets have climate change in line with Climate Change in Direct (Scope weather events is essential to building and industrial. adaptation plans. Adaptation plans. 1 and 2) emissions resilient assets and portfolios, in turn –– Climate change risk analysis –– Transitional and physical climate –– Alignment to TCFD Framework. by 2030, which commenced for childcare portfolio. change scenario analysis equates to an protecting people and remaining undertaken with alignment to intensity of competitive in a challenging environment. –– Review of TCFD framework and gap TCFD Framework. 0kgCO2/m2. analysis completed. –– Investigate opportunities to Managing environmental risk work with our tenant customers Environmental risks such as pollutants, –– Draft Environmental Management –– Seek certification of environmental –– Maintain certified EMS to and contractors waste management (including hazardous Plans for office, retail and industrial management plan to ISO 14001. ISO 14001. to reduce our materials), indoor air quality, and tenant sectors adopted. indirect (Scope 3) operations and activities can represent emissions. significant liability for property owners, and risks to the environment and people using our buildings. We work with our facility managers, developers and other suppliers to manage our environmental risks to internationally recognised standards. 19 Charter Hall Group Sustainability Report July 2018-June 2019 CEO message FY19 highlights About us Our approach Environment Social Governance TCFD Performance data Ten Principles of the UNGC GRI index Assurance statement Environment Energy and carbon Issues Achievements for FY19 FY20 Target FY25 Target FY30 Target Reducing our emissions footprint In Australia, the built environment –– Emissions reduction targets developed –– Pathway to targets identified. –– Investigate opportunities –– 100% reduction in represents 23% of the country’s for Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions, to work with our tenant emissions within emissions. As a manager of 844 assets from base buildings in Charter Hall customers and contractors Charter Hall direct nationally, we have a strong platform to direct operational control.1 to reduce our indirect control (Scope 1 and 2) contribute to emissions reductions. (Scope 3) emissions. 2 by 2030, which equates to an intensity of Investing in renewable technologies 0kgCO2 /m2.1 Increasing cost of energy and more –– Increased renewable energy footprint –– Stage 2 of retail solar power –– Investigate renewable –– Investigate from 2.5MW, in 2018, to 5.2MW of solar purchase agreement implementation energy target. opportunities to cost effective solar PV investments PV across the portfolio, generating across applicable Charter Hallwork with our tenant supports accelerating investment in 7,598MWh of electricity per annum managed shopping centres. customers and renewable energy. contractors to reduce in green energy, or enough to power –– Renewable energy on all new large 507 homes. emissions outside of retail and industrial developments. our control (Scope 3 –– Stage 1 solar rollout program for emissions). 2 retail underway with the installation of 13 MW generation capacity across 15 shopping centres, producing 18 GWh of electricity per annum, equivalent to powering 1,200 homes. Improving efficiency of buildings Charter Hall’s assets have always –– Maintained and expanded Australia’s –– 3 Star average Green Star –– 4 Star average Green Star been high-performing and largest Green Star footprint, with the Performance Rating across the Group. Performance rating across environmentally efficient. addition of 5 and 6 Star Green Star –– Green Star ratings across all new office assets. Design and As Built ratings achieved developments, with 5 Star Green Star –– 5 Star Green Star Design We use Green Star and NABERS ratings to on office developments. Design and As Built ratings sought on and As Built ratings seek continual improvement in the quality –– Achieved 4.77 Star NABERS Energy all new large office developments. sought on all new office and performance of our assets. Weighted Average Rating for Office developments. –– 4.75 Star NABERS Energy Weighted Assets, up from 4.66 Star NABERS Average Rating for office assets. –– 5 Star NABERS Energy Energy Weighted average in FY18. Weighted Average Rating –– Improvement on NABERS Energy –– Maintained 3.9 Star NABERS Energy Ratings for retail assets. for office assets. Weighted Average Rating for –– 4 Star NABERS Energy –– Smaller retail centres targeting retail assets. Weighted Average Rating 3% reduction in energy consumption, from FY19 baseline. for retail assets. 1 E missions from our base building that are in Charter Hall direct operational control, related to energy use and refrigerants include: Scope 1: Gas, diesel and refrigerants from our base buildings and operations, and Scope 2: Electricity purchased for our base buildings and operations in our control. 2 Scope 3 emissions outside of Charter Hall direct control include emissions from our tenant customers and contractors in development construction. 20 Charter Hall Group Sustainability Report July 2018-June 2019 CEO message FY19 highlights About us Our approach Environment Social Governance TCFD Performance data Ten Principles of the UNGC GRI index Assurance statement Environment Water Issues Achievements for FY19 FY20 Target FY25 Target FY30 Target Conserving water resources Water scarcity is a feature of many –– 3.8 Star NABERS water weighted –– 4.0 Star NABERS water weighted –– 4.5 Star NABERS water weighted –– 100% reduction Australian cities and regions, with growing average in office. average in office. average in office. in Direct (Scope urban populations and unpredictable –– 3.2 Star NABERS water weighted –– 3.5 Star NABERS water weighted –– 4 Star NABERS water weighted 1 and 2) emissions rainfall exacerbating the problem. average in retail. average in retail. average in retail. by 2030, which equates to an Competition for scarce water resources intensity of poses an increasing risk to the business 0kgCO2/m2. sector, including Charter Hall. –– Investigate opportunities to Waste work with our tenant customers Reducing waste and increasing recycling and contractors to reduce our With China and India restricting imports –– 32% waste diversion in Office –– 50% waste diversion in retail and –– 70% waste diversion in retail and indirect (Scope 3) of Australia’s co-mingled recycling, the assets, a reduction of 3% since office assets. office assets. emissions. focus on reducing waste and increasing FY18, with integration of Better diversion from landfill is laser sharp for Buildings Partnership Waste reporting. businesses like ours. We work with our –– 24% waste diversion in retail waste contractors to increase recycling assets (2% increase from FY18) and other diversions from landfill. with implementation of waste management plans. 21 Charter Hall Group Sustainability Report July 2018-June 2019 CEO message FY19 highlights About us Our approach Environment Social Governance TCFD Performance data Ten Principles of the UNGC GRI index Assurance statement “The PPA has given us a high level of cost certainty in a volatile market. The learnings from the solar roll-out will also help our major tenant customers to expand their renewable energy programs across our portfolio.” Retail solar Nick Symons, Head of Portfolio Management, Retail In FY19 our retail sector formed The result is an innovative approach to solar, whereby we have negotiated a solar power strategic partnerships to purchasing agreement (PPA) with two partners generate 18 GWh of solar energy – Clean Peak Energy and Solgen Energy Group (in conjunction with Macquarie Group). Under across 15 of our assets per the PPA, our partners arrange for the design, annum. This is the equivalent of regulatory approval, installation and ongoing powering 1,200 homes, helping operation and maintenance of solar energy systems on our centre rooftops. us to manage energy costs while These partnerships are enabling the rapid reducing our emissions. deployment of best-in-breed solar energy The cost of energy is a significant one for both systems at 15 of our shopping centres, along Charter Hall and our tenant customers. To with battery storage at an initial four sites. The address this challenge in a way that provides initiative to date has reduced our retail portfolio long-term positive sustainable outcomes, we energy emissions by 25% and has also helped embarked on a program in 2014 to make our secure stable energy pricing for around 40% buildings more energy efficient. of each sites’ electricity demand over the next decade. We have installed LED lighting across all common mall and carparks within our large Tamworth Square was the first shopping retail assets and will continue the roll-out centre to benefit from the solar roll-out. It is with our smaller assets. We are also creating anticipated the remaining 14 installations will guidelines to help tenant customers design be completed by the end of calendar year and build sustainable fit-outs. 2019. Planning for Stage 2 of the rollout is underway for the balance of the retail portfolio, Tamworth Square, Tamworth NSW In FY18, we installed our first solar array which we aim to complete by the end of FY20. at Singleton Square in NSW, and in FY19 completed an investigation into implementing Taking a staged approach to our investment in a renewable energy solution across our entire renewables and energy storage has allowed retail portfolio. Recognising that solar is not us to take the technical lessons we have a core capability, we sought out industry learned to effectively deliver on our broader experts and formed active partnerships aimed sustainability program. at delivering a good outcome for both our centres and our customers. 22 Charter Hall Group Sustainability Report July 2018-June 2019 CEO message FY19 highlights About us Our approach Environment Social Governance TCFD Performance data Ten Principles of the UNGC GRI index Assurance statement “Partnering with Charter Hall allowed us to deliver a sustainable solution that all of our teams can be proud of. We look forward to continuing our progressive, sustainable partnership into the future.” Caroma’s state-of-the-art facility Anthony Mortimer, General Manager Supply Chain, GWA Group Limited We are extremely proud The new warehouse located at the Positioned close to rail links and with bicycle M5/M7 Logistics Park in Prestons, New South racks and end-of-trip facilities, Caroma’s of the first 5 Green Star Design Wales, includes a logistics centre, research new facility makes it easier for employees to and As Built v1.1 development and development lab, product development commute more sustainably. Once at work, they and quality assurance facilities for testing new will also be able to take advantage of spaces in our industrial portfolio – products on site. With both our companies set up for flexible working through activitya state-of-the-art logistics focused on sustainable outcomes in our based work environments. facility developed for Caroma, products, the features of the developments The success of the logistics facility has include a 200kW solar system, which will a subsidiary of ASX-listed generate 354 MWh per year, approximately encouraged us to pursue another development for Caroma at their 7,000sqm industrial site GWA Group, a leading 20-30% of Caroma’s energy requirements, in Brisbane. We are also trialling the Caroma and electrical sub-metering that will provide Australian supplier of information for building users to help identify intelligent bathroom management system, building fixtures and fittings and address high-use areas. Caroma Smart Command®, in our head office in Sydney. This mutually beneficial relationship to households and With Caroma being a leading provider of serves as proof of the value we can deliver commercial premises. sustainable water solutions, water efficiency from our partnership approach with tenant and conservation in the building and its fittings customers. Charter Hall acquired the Caroma facility at was a strong focus for the development. Water Victoria Street, Wetherill Park, NSW, on a sale meters linked to the Building Management and leaseback in 2015. As part of a further (GWA) Caroma, M5/M7 Logistics Park, Preston NSW System are in place to help identify any leaks. procurement process led by Caroma, The installation of Caroma’s water efficient Charter Hall offered a solution to meet their fittings and products and rainwater capture and future needs for a specialised warehouse. reuse, further build on water efficiency features, Caroma’s motivation was to provide employees while the on-site waste management system with an attractive environment, both in which provides over ten streams to assist with waste to work and to showcase new products. diversion from landfill. “The 5 Green Star rating works both to showcase the site and to provide the extra performance benefits desired,” says Matthew Cox, National Industrial Delivery Manager. 23 Charter Hall Group Sustainability Report July 2018-June 2019 Social 24 Charter Hall Group Sustainability Report July 2018-June 2019 CEO message FY19 highlights About us Our approach Environment Social Governance TCFD Performance data Ten Principles of the UNGC GRI index Assurance statement Social Increase the strength of communities Government, the private sector Our focus on the wellbeing of our Sydney to grow the talent pool FY19 HIGHLIGHTS and civil society are working employees, was recognised through for our industry, in addition to the to address gaps in workforce our employee engagement score, Cedric Fuchs Scholarship, which participation, particularly for underwhich in FY19 climbed 4% to 87%, encourages the generation of new represented groups. placing us in the high-performing ideas within our business. category. We also received United Nations Sustainable We undertook a health audit, which favourable scores from our culture Development Goal 8 – Decent Work revealed strong performance survey, exceeding the industry and Economic Growth is focused on on physical wellbeing, and lead norm, both nationally and globally, promoting inclusive and sustainable us to a new priority area of mental on all aspects considered. economic growth, full and and social wellbeing. Our focus Over Invested productive employment and decent We generate value for our economy on wellbeing in FY19 resulted in work for all. Charter Hall, through our people, operations and investments through our business success and our Pledge 1% contribution a partnership with the Black Dog Institute. $1.8m $775,000 is focused on contributing to: through our people’s time, space or 37,997 square metres in in community programs In addition, we boosted our footprint space utilised by community and services in our places and partnerships organisations and for health –– sustainable per capita in WELL-rated buildings and offices, that bring inclusion through and wellbeing activities economic growth through our participation in the WELL meaningful employment. Our Portfolio pilot. Globally, WELL is the –– technological innovation Pledge 1% extended into our leading tool for advancing health developments, where we facilitated –– the creation of equal employment and wellbeing within buildings. Our training and employment pathways opportunities in our operations, involvement in the WELL Portfolio for people from disadvantaged assets and developments. pilot provides a streamlined pathway backgrounds. We also brought for certification across multiple new –– full and productive employment community programs and activities and existing buildings and spaces and decent work for all. into our buildings for our tenants, within a single portfolio. creating spaces that excite and Charter Hall continues to foster a diverse, inclusive and agile inspire, and developed apps to help employees and tenants better 87% 67% workforce, which enables us to connect with their surroundings and employee engagement of our employees engaged attract and retain the best talent and immediate community. in 378 employee volunteer days encourages the innovative thinking we need to maintain our success, We continued to support ongoing Alignment with SDG8: and in turn, the success of our partnerships and scholarships with Decent Work and Economic employees, customers and investors. the University of Technology Sydney Growth and the University of Western 25 Charter Hall Group Sustainability Report July 2018-June 2019 CEO message FY19 highlights About us Our approach Environment Social Governance TCFD Performance data Ten Principles of the UNGC GRI index Assurance statement Social Community Issues Achievements for FY19 FY20 Target FY25 Target Building better communities We identified that many of the social issues Pledge 1% achievements: –– Continue Pledge 1% of Our People, –– Continue Pledge 1% of Our People, in our communities (such as homelessness, –– People: 378 employee volunteer days. Our Places, Our Partnerships. Our Places, Our Partnerships. domestic violence and social exclusion) could –– Places: Over $1.8 million or 37,997sqm in be proactively addressed through inclusion space utilised by community organisations and meaningful employment. Through our and for health and wellbeing activities. Pledge 1% and our partnerships we seek to –– Partnerships: build the capacity for and participation in – Invested $775,000 in community meaningful employment. programs and services. – $196,000 raised for Rural Aid by our retail centres and customers to support drought affected communities. Generating more employment opportunities The property industry is one of Australia’s Office development employment strategy –– Employment strategy for all developments. –– Employment projects in all biggest employers and a key driver of national continued, with 81% employment outcomes –– National partnerships that build inclusion new developments. prosperity and economic wellbeing. We are for trainees. Partnered with social through employment within our –– Create a national network of ensuring our people grow with us by providing enterprises such as The Pure Collective, local communities. innovation enterprises. Kick Start Café and Two Good for training skills development and on-the-job training and employment programs. and experience. 26 Charter Hall Group Sustainability Report July 2018-June 2019 CEO message FY19 highlights About us Our approach Environment Social Governance TCFD Performance data Ten Principles of the UNGC GRI index Assurance statement Social Employees Issues Achievements for FY19 FY20 Target FY25 Target Creating a place where people belong Fostering a diverse, inclusive and agile –– Launched Charter Hall Proud and employee –– Continue to measure our inclusion through –– Continue to measure diversity workforce has always been a priority for awareness program in partnership with Pride the AWEI survey. and inclusion through our Culture and Charter Hall. It helps us attract and retain the in Diversity and reviewed our policies and –– Build our diversity through a focus on AWEI Surveys. best talent and encourages innovative thinking gaps to better support LGBTI employees. ability and First Nations. –– Targets for female participation on within our workplace. –– Participated in the Australian Workplace –– Targets for female participation on Charter Hall Board ≥40%, in senior Equality Index (AWEI). Charter Hall Board ≥33.3%, in senior executive positions ≥40% and across –– Female non-executive director participation executive positions ≥33.3% and across the workplace 50%. on Charter Hall Board was 33.3%, in senior the workplace 50%. executive positions 33.3% and across the workplace 54.6%. –– Conducted an independent in-depth review of gender across the employee lifecycle to inform ongoing activities targeting key talent and individual roles. –– Undertook a People and Culture program across the Group focused on psychological safety and speaking up. –– Partnered on programs to grow our talent pool of young people including: –– The Property Council’s Girls in Property program and Grow the Talent Pool initiative –– Hatch to access talent early in their lifecycle –– University of Western Sydney and the University of Technology Sydney scholarships –– Foundation for Young Australians Innovation Nation and Young Social Pioneers programs. 27 Charter Hall Group Sustainability Report July 2018-June 2019 CEO message FY19 highlights About us Our approach Environment Social Governance TCFD Performance data Ten Principles of the UNGC GRI index Assurance statement Social Employees Issues Achievements for FY19 FY20 Target FY25 Target Creating great employee experiences A growing body of research, including from –– 87% employee engagement. –– Maintain engagement and learning –– Continue to sustain high performing Temkin Group and Gartner, shows that –– 83% of employees believe they have opportunity and development scores at the high engagement and learning and an engaged workforce may be the key to for personal development and growth, which performing organisation levels. development scores. better customer experience. is two points above the high performing –– Shape the way we acquire and develop organisations level. talent to align with the future of work. Charter Hall Proud On ‘Wear It Purple’ day in FY19, a team of inspired employees launched an initiative to raise the visibility, profile and support of LGBTIQ within the business. The initiative – Charter Hall Proud – deepens our commitment to diversity and inclusion within the workplace. Charter Hall Proud aims to give employees the confidence and support they need to bring their whole and best selves to work. It is steered by a committee and has an executive sponsor in our Chief Financial Officer. The committee uses the Australian Workplace Equality Index (AWEI) as a national benchmark on LGBTIQ workplace inclusion and to identify areas for further improvement (Charter Hall also measures itself against the Workplace Gender Equality Agency (WGEA) Index). Recommended changes include referencing same-sex couples in policies for parental leave and providing resources and support for employees struggling with their identity. Lobby, 1 Martin Place, Sydney NSW 28 Charter Hall Group Sustainability Report July 2018-June 2019 CEO message FY19 highlights About us Our approach Environment Social Governance TCFD Performance data Ten Principles of the UNGC GRI index Assurance statement Social Customers Issues Achievements for FY19 FY20 Target FY25 Target Creating engaging customer experiences In line with research like that of McKinsey, –– Tenant customer surveys undertaken –– Customer place experience measures –– Ongoing place experience ratings across reflecting how an organization delivers across office, retail and industrial sectors. implemented across the portfolio. our portfolio. for customers is as important as what it Results showed continued high levels of –– Stakeholder engagement plans prepared –– 100% of developments and assets have delivers, we are investing in innovative ways customer satisfaction. for 100% of developments. stakeholder engagement plans. to connect with our customers and to add –– Developed and piloted Charli app for our office value to their experience in our spaces. portfolio to help connect people with place and wellbeing activities. –– Built engaging experiences into office lobbies and community spaces across portfolio. Wellbeing Creating better workplaces The Black Dog Institute notes that work –– Four WELL Core and Shell registrations, –– WELL building accreditation sought for all –– WELL building accreditation sought for all environments where wellbeing is prioritised including Charter Hall Brisbane tenancy. large Charter Hall tenancies and in new large Charter Hall tenancies and in new produce happier and more productive –– WELL Portfolio rating underway for Charter Hall office developments. office developments. employees. Through our WELL rated Office Trust portfolio. –– Develop NABERS IEQ targets for Charter –– Enhanced employee and customer buildings and partnerships, we provide –– NABERS Indoor Environmental Quality Hall office buildings. satisfaction experience in our assets. access to healthy, productive (IEQ) ratings undertaken across office assets. –– Explore use of new technologies across –– Wellbeing programs and activities available built environments. IEQ monitors trialled in Charter Hall tenancies. the portfolio. to all employees. –– Mental health partnership with Black Dog –– Enhance employee wellbeing, with a focus Institute established to build employee on social and mental health. resilience. –– Implement Wellbeing strategy for our people. 29 Charter Hall Group Sustainability Report July 2018-June 2019 CEO message FY19 highlights About us Our approach Environment Social Governance TCFD Performance data Ten Principles of the UNGC GRI index Assurance statement Social Wellbeing Issues Achievements for FY19 FY20 Target FY25 Target Caring for our health and safety Looking after the health and safety of –– Commenced Workplace Health and –– Workplace Health and Safety framework –– Workplace Health and Safety framework our people, contractors, customers and Safety review. updated. embedded in the business. tenants, as well as the wider public that use our spaces, is an imperative. Charter Hall is taking active measures to continually improve the health and safety of our work environment. Health and safety Charter Hall’s employees primarily work in an office environment and we take active measures to continually improve the health and safety of our workplaces. Health and safety is addressed in the Charter Hall Group's risk management framework, which is the responsibility of management, the Audit Risk and Compliance Committee and Charter Hall Board. From a governance perspective, our Group Health and Safety Manager reports to the Head of Enterprise Risk and Compliance, who reports to the Chief Financial Officer. Health and safety is reflected in our governance policies and our employee code of conduct and was part of compliance training undertaken by all employees during FY19. During FY19, we also commenced a review of our management systems and processes, which will result in a roadmap identifying any areas for improvement. More pronounced health and safety risks tend to relate to the construction and operation of our assets, rather than our office environments. We take steps to clarify and address these broader responsibilities through governance and performance management, in partnership with our principal contractors. 30 Charter Hall Group Sustainability Report July 2018-June 2019 CEO message FY19 highlights About us Our approach Environment Social Governance TCFD Performance data Ten Principles of the UNGC GRI index Assurance statement “Technology helps us provide workplaces that respond to people, provide great customer experiences and deliver positive environmental outcomes.” Craig Rodgers, Innovation Lead Office Technologies for building communities At Charter Hall, we craft The app has also been used successfully Overall we have had positive feedback from as an organising platform for wellbeing our employee and tenant customers on their workplaces that are responsive activities, such as yoga – the most popular experience with Comfy and seen cumulative to the needs of our tenants. event for registrations to date, and as a energy savings of 14% across the four sustainability communications platform. buildings, equating to 250 tonnes of CO 2e. Technology is an increasing In FY20 Charli will kick off monthly feature of our approach. sustainability initiatives and programs, Comfy use is currently expanding to one other asset and we are looking at additional We use two apps – Charli and which commenced with plastic-free July. opportunities. Comfy – to build community In November 2018, the Charli app won Through our Charli and Comfy apps, we’re a Game Changer of the Year award and promote wellbeing. in REA Group’s annual AREA Awards, making new connections possible and – in a very literal sense – putting wellbeing into Our Charli app was the first of its kind to for Commercial Real Estate. our tenants’ hands. Both initiatives are part market in Australia. It allows our customers Comfy is another app we use to improve of our evolving journey with technology, to activate spaces and host engaging events. wellbeing within our assets. Comfy allows which has both our tenants and us engaged Created in collaboration with CBRE and with individuals to personalise the temperature of by the results. input from our tenants, it was launched in their work zone. In 2017 we oversaw the first Mezzanine, 1 Martin Place, November 2018 in our offices at 1 Martin Place, Sydney NSW Australian deployment of Comfy in our 1 Martin Sydney and 570 Bourke Street, Melbourne. Place, Sydney office to test and learn, and Since its launch, Charli has been used to host then rolled it out to four buildings in 2018 and a range of TED-style talk events, with a continued expansion to 26 assets by the end focus on wellbeing. Speakers have included of 2019. Australian surf world champion Layne Beachley In aggregate, Comfy receives 500 requests and NRL CEO Todd Greenberg. It has also per week for temperature adjustments, been used for tenant engagement in trivia bringing the total to 40,000 personalised and wine nights and a knock-out table tennis requests since it was deployed. The data tournament between tenants, coinciding with provides insights for us to draw on in the 2019 Australian Open. tailoring our spaces and helps improve the experience of our employees and our tenant customers alike. 31 Charter Hall Group Sustainability Report July 2018-June 2019 CEO message FY19 highlights About us Our approach Environment Social Governance TCFD Performance data Ten Principles of the UNGC GRI index Assurance statement “These programs are about providing a direct and positive impact in the community and working with our contractors and subcontractors to produce a genuine outcome.” Local employment projects George Roussos, Senior Development Manager Two recent office developments In FY18/FY19, this initiative expanded into our Both Lendlease and Built employed a trainee GPO Exchange, Adelaide, development. The from the program. Heritage Stone Restoration provided an opportunity to offer success of the project is directly attributed to (HSR), a subcontractor at Wesley Place and the meaningful employment and a partnerships with our contractors Lendlease GPO Exchange, engaged trainees from both and Built, and registered training providers the Melbourne and Adelaide projects. sense of social inclusion to local Wesley Employment Services, MEGT and people from disadvantaged Workskill Australia. One of these trainees was refugee Minh Huynh. After being born in a refugee camp groups, while also helping to The projects aim to maximise our social in Cambodia, Minh and his family risked their address skills shortages in the impact by providing entry opportunities lives multiple times in search of a better life. for unemployed people, including by offering Some three decades later, Minh was again construction industry. pre-employment training in a Certificate seeking a change for the better. With the We are committed to increasing the of Construction, alongside site and support of Wesley Employment Services, he strength of local communities. In our contractor engagement. was placed on a Charter Hall local employment capacity as a commercial property owner project for Wesley Place. Through the project, Our contractors assist with the training and developer, that means getting to know he received his Certificate I in Construction, requirements to ensure they meet safety and the local community, and engaging various gained valuable job experience, and secured site criteria as well as the skills needed for stakeholders to uncover how we can add an apprenticeship with HSR. safe construction on site. Participants in the value in our communities. projects to-date include women, indigenous While the program is still in its infancy, the Our partnership in 2017 with Uniting Church Australians, refugees, long-term unemployed potential impact on participants such as – at Wesley Place, 130 Lonsdale Street, and the homeless. Minh can be profound. For many experiencing Melbourne, was the first initiative where we disadvantage, a stable job is the start of a Of the 23 people who completed preWesley Place, 130 Lonsdale Street, combined a new development with a focus brighter future. As we continue to deliver employment training for Wesley Place, 81% of Melbourne VIC on local job creation. world-class developments across the participants in the program have continued country, these projects are one way we can working, with over half in construction, while meaningfully contribute to the strength of local one participant commenced a university communities and to people’s lives. degree. For the GPO Exchange project, seven people completed the training and six were later determined to be sustainably employed. 32 Charter Hall Group Sustainability Report July 2018-June 2019 Governance 33 Charter Hall Group Sustainability Report July 2018-June 2019 CEO message FY19 highlights About us Our approach Environment Social Governance TCFD Performance data Ten Principles of the UNGC GRI index Assurance statement Governance Embed a high standard of ethics into our actions There is a growing demand for governance measures; to identify Our commitment to human rights FY19 HIGHLIGHTS strong governance and increased and deal with any problems and is reflected in the management transparency. determine whether the changes of our operations in line with the made have been effective. UN Principles for Responsible Charter Hall’s approach aligns with Investment (PRI), UN Guiding the United Nations Sustainable This year we undertook a culture Principles, international legislation Development Goal (SDG) 16: Peace, survey and refreshed our purpose and the Australian Modern Slavery justice and strong institutions. and values to help clarify and Act (2018), which reflects our This SDG seeks to address peace, explain how we create long-term corporate values, business needs stability, human rights and effective value for all stakeholders, including and the expectations of our governance. To support this goal we local communities, tenants, customers and key stakeholders. Became a signatory to the Developed a human rights are focused on: employees, shareholders and Charter Hall is committed to UN Global Compact framework suppliers. We have reviewed our maintaining ethical, environmental, –– promoting the rule of law at the governance frameworks, including national and international levels and social standards and to our supplier and employee codes of continuously improving their and ensuring equal access to conduct, in line with our new values. justice for all application throughout our Our employees are also provided operations, practices and our supply –– being an effective, accountable with regular training in ethical chain. We are key contributors and transparent institution behaviours and standards. in a range of Australian property –– promoting and enforcing nonIn March 2019, Charter Hall became industry initiatives in addressing discriminatory laws and policies a signatory to the UN Global modern slavery. for sustainable development Compact, supporting the ten Our alignment with national Contributed to the Investigated alignment principles on human rights, labour, and international governance Property Council of with the Taskforce for –– ensuring public access to environment and anti-corruption. Australia’s efforts to Climate-related Financial information and protecting frameworks has also involved a tackle modern slavery Disclosures (TCFD) Our commitment extends these review of the Taskforce on Climatefundamental freedoms, in Framework principles into the strategy, culture Related Financial Disclosures accordance with national and day-to-day operations of our legislation and international (TCFD) framework, with a view to company and we are mindful that alignment with its recommendations agreements. mutually beneficial partnerships in the future. The 2019 Australian Financial are at the heart of our approach to Services Royal Commission, investment. This report forms our inaugural report on progress. Alignment with SDG16: highlighted the need for all Peace, justice and strong companies to take proper steps institutions to assess their culture and 34 Charter Hall Group Sustainability Report July 2018-June 2019 CEO message FY19 highlights About us Our approach Environment Social Governance TCFD Performance data Ten Principles of the UNGC GRI index Assurance statement Governance Governance Issues Achievements for FY19 FY20 Target FY25 Target Strengthening business ethics and compliance According to the Society for Human Resource –– Developed and launched new purpose –– Monitor and maintain high ethical –– Monitor and maintain high ethical Management, the stock price of the 100 most and values. standards and establish benchmarks standards and align with benchmarks ethical US firms outperformed their peers by –– Aligned corporate strategy and governance for improvement. for improvement. 300% from 1998 to 2011. Embedding a high policies to new purpose and values. –– Build on our Risk Culture Index of 81%. –– Build on our Risk Culture Index. standard of ethics and compliance into our –– Risk Culture Index of 81%. actions is an opportunity to build an even stronger and more prosperous business. Engaging a responsible supply chain Supply chains represent 50% to 70% of the –– Became a Signatory to the –– Human rights framework implemented –– Integrate sustainable and equitable sustainability footprint of most major global UN Global Compact. across Charter Hall assets, developments supply chain management into assets companies (Ecovadis). Implementing strict –– Human rights and modern slavery and operations. and developments. supplier and employee codes of conduct framework resulted in: –– Engagement with our supply chain on helps us manage the ESG impacts that extend Supplier risk assessment Australian Modern Slavery risks and beyond our direct operational control. legislative requirements. Development of Supplier Code of Conduct –– Publish annual UN Global Compact and Our supply chain is diverse, supporting both Implementation plan developed to address Modern Slavery Statement. the operational management and development Australian Modern Slavery laws. functions of our business. –– Participated in Property Council of Australia Sustainability Roundtable development Significant suppliers for Charter Hall include of a supplier pre-qualification platform. suppliers of services required to operate our –– Participated in the Cleaning Accountability building portfolio such as cleaning, security and Framework pilot building certification facilities management. scheme. Our development supply chain consists of construction companies we contract to build new developments, and suppliers of materials used in our new builds. 35 Charter Hall Group Sustainability Report July 2018-June 2019 CEO message FY19 highlights About us Our approach Environment Social Governance TCFD Performance data Ten Principles of the UNGC GRI index Assurance statement Governance Compliance Issues Achievements for FY19 FY20 Target FY25 Target Training all employees in ethical behaviour and standards The Ethics Research Centre highlights that –– 100% of employees participated in Risk –– Automation of routine compliance –– Integrated, comprehensive and flexible effective ethics and compliance programs and Compliance training, including integrity monitoring. approach to maximising compliance. can help safeguard a company's integrity and and compliance. –– Governance policy rationalisation. –– 100% employee engagement in improve key measures of workplace behavior. –– Simplification of compliance processes –– Compliance control reviews completed compliance training. We are committed to conducting our business and increased accountability through selfand aligned to business strategy. activities in line with the highest ethical certification and compliance verification. –– Revised compliance program implemented standards, as well as complying with all relevant –– Updated our purpose and values and new across all Charter Hall operations. regulations. Code of Conduct to define what we expect –– Refresh of compliance training and of our people. 100% employee engagement in compliance training. Protecting the privacy of individuals and companies Data security and privacy is a growing concern –– Continued employee training and –– Continue understanding of the changing –– Continued monitoring and alignment. for individuals, organisations and governments, engagement on privacy, data security regulatory and threat landscape and and a major risk across the financial and and governance. evolving our information security property industries. We recognise the issue –– Ongoing management of our information practices accordingly. as a priority within Charter Hall. security practices in alignment with the ISO 27001 framework and regulatory requirements. 36 Charter Hall Group Sustainability Report July 2018-June 2019 CEO message FY19 highlights About us Our approach Environment Social Governance TCFD Performance data Ten Principles of the UNGC GRI index Assurance statement “Our values ensure we remain strong as we grow and are our constant in this time of technological, environmental and societal change.” David Clarke, Chair Values that we are proud to own This year we reframed our reflects our role as guardians of people’s capital, and therefore, their futures. purpose and values to more Genuine insight captures not just the skills accurately express our we have but the ways in which we actively aspirations and ambitions. use our experience, knowledge, honesty and understanding to build insights that are trusted Our business has changed significantly by those we do business with. over the last eight years. With $30 billion of property under management and Inventive spirit refers to the innovative way 546 employees, we now have a clear and we connect people, capital and opportunities. inspiring story to tell. We are also operating It is a reminder that we must continue to use in an external environment that has what we know to rethink what we can do with Active Partnership Genuine Insight changed significantly. others. Recent examples of this include the We believe if everyone We use expertise to unlock funds we’ve created with Bunnings, Telstra To help reframe our thinking, we partnered benefits, we benefit resilient growth and Coles. with our external brand agency to undertake a comprehensive research process. Finally, powered by drive expresses our willingness to go further, our authenticity, The findings reinforced that our financial goals ability to listen and deliver on promises. These were clear, our property investments were well are characteristics that we are proud of and recognised, and we had established excellent that are often commented on in the feedback partnerships across the business. But they we receive. also highlighted our task-oriented nature. We needed to articulate a bigger purpose and Our executive team also examined how we reflect attributes such as our tempo and drive, could make our purpose more explicit. Front how genuine and authentic we are and the way and centre for us is our role as guardians of we listen and always go further. other people’s capital over the long term. That’s why our purpose, developed with input Inventive Spirit Powered by Drive Our newly created values now focus on four from investors, tenants and employees, is We create with purpose We put our passion areas that define us: about achieving better futures and mutual and discipline into action Active partnership celebrates the broader success through bringing aspirations to life. thinking that we invest in the win:win nature of our mutually successful relationships. It also 37 Charter Hall Group Sustainability Report July 2018-June 2019 CEO message FY19 highlights About us Our approach Environment Social Governance TCFD Performance data Ten Principles of the UNGC GRI index Assurance statement “Our involvement with the Property Council's Modern Slavery initiative has created an approach and resources to really make a difference in addressing modern slavery. It's a great example Modern slavery of an industry-wide collaboration.” Margot Black, Head of Sustainability and Community This year we developed a to report on efforts to address modern slavery within their operations and supply chains. The human rights framework to framework includes a human rights policy, a uncover and eliminate potential supplier code of conduct and a modern slavery working group. modern slavery risks within our operations and supply chains. The working group is focused on the three key areas of procurement, governance and We were also a key contributor education, and comprises representatives to the Property Council of from risk and compliance, procurement, operations, people and sustainability teams Australia’s efforts to implement across each of our three sectors. industry-wide collaboration Charter Hall has also been an early adopter on addressing modern slavery of the Cleaning Accountability Framework risks – an approach that other (CAF), designed by Australian Super. One of our general managers sits on its sectors have looked to emulate. Advisory Committee. Embedding a high standard of ethics into our CAF uses an asset-level approach to assess actions and decision-making is a strategic remuneration and working conditions across priority for the Group. Within this context, the cleaning supply chain – one of the Charter Hall offices, 1 Martin Place, our Board and senior management are property sector’s highest-risk segments. Sydney NSW focused on our responsibilities in relation Among our assets, 55 King Street first piloted to modern slavery. this framework and has just completed its Despite these efforts, we recognise that the suppliers better manage their business risks three-year renewal. 333 George Street is also broader issue of modern slavery is too big in relation to modern slavery. When the Australian Modern Slavery Act came to address single-handedly. That’s why we into effect on 1 January 2019, we were already participating in the program. Two Charter Hall representatives have taken were determined to play a central role in the 12 months into our modern slavery journey. Initial results have validated our approach up co-chair positions on the Property Council Property Council of Australia’s collaborative to this important issue by showing our Sustainability Roundtable in 2019. Their efforts Our human rights framework forms the platform to address the issue in our industry. contractors were following most steps reflect our absolute commitment to help basis of our response. It aligns with the The platform includes a prequalification eliminate modern slavery, and our continuing Modern Slavery Act 2018, which requires required by the framework. An additional two Charter Hall assets in Victoria are now process for suppliers, with fifteen property determination to secure collaborative, companies with consolidated revenue of at companies currently trialling the initiative. It industry-wide outcomes that benefit least $100 million over their reporting period seeking certification. will also include educational programs to help all Australians. 38 Charter Hall Group Sustainability Report July 2018-June 2019 TCFD 39 Charter Hall Group Sustainability Report July 2018-June 2019 CEO message FY19 highlights About us Our approach Environment Social Governance TCFD Performance data Ten Principles of the UNGC GRI index Assurance statement TCFD Climate-related events, such as droughts and Since 2016, we have been focussed on Climate governance better future-proofing our portfolio against heatwaves, are increasing in scope and severity. the risks associated with climate change. Board oversight In response, organisations around the world, We are currently taking a phased approach The Board and Board Committees, including to identifying and managing broader the Audit Risk and Compliance Committee including Charter Hall, are accelerating efforts climate-related risks and opportunities, (ARCC) have responsibility for overseeing to address the challenges of climate change in guided by the disclosure recommendations Charter Hall’s risk management framework. their long-term business planning. outlined in the Taskforce on ClimateClimate-related risks and opportunities, Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) final together with other environmental, social recommendations report. and governance issues, have become an increasingly important focus, with the We understand the objective of the ARCC receiving regular updates from TCFD is to develop voluntary, consistent management on sustainability issues climate-related financial disclosures and initiatives, and regularly reviewing for investors, lenders, and insurance Group sustainability strategy, policies and underwriters to better understand the sustainability reports. material risks of their investments. The ARCC meets at least four times a year We have undertaken a review of the and reviews the Group's top strategic and TCFD framework and gap analysis and will operational risks at least once a year to prepare considerations for alignment with consider key controls and mitigants. the TCFD’s recommendations in FY20. The following outlines our current approach to The Board has adopted a Group climate governance, risks and opportunities, Sustainability Policy that forms the and the metrics we use to measure these foundation of the Group commitment to risks and opportunities. sustainable business practices, including climate change, by “assessing and incorporating the effect of climate change risk, adaptation and resilience into our investment and business decisions”. 275 George Street, Brisbane QLD 40 Charter Hall Group Sustainability Report July 2018-June 2019 CEO message FY19 highlights About us Our approach Environment Social Governance TCFD Performance data Ten Principles of the UNGC GRI index Assurance statement TCFD Our managed funds have their own Climate risks and opportunities Risks Climate metrics governance structures to determine –– Climate change and increasing extreme decision-making on assets and investments While we recognise that much work We take an evidence-based approach to weather events have the potential to within their portfolios, and all funds align remains to be done, we have commenced disclosing climate-related metrics, including damage our properties, disrupt operations with the Group Sustainability Policy. Day-tothe process of identifying climate-related to measure progress and hold ourselves and impact the safety and wellbeing of day operational management of the fund risks and opportunities, starting with a accountable to stakeholders: our employees, customers and visitors. investments is delegated to the Charter Group-wide analysis of the physical risks Hall Group. As a result, all management is –– Our risk assessment process associated with climate change in 2016 –– The carbon, energy, water and waste undertaken in accordance with Charter methodology aligns with the AS5334and continuing to mitigate against these associated with our large property Hall Group policies, codes of conduct and 2013 standard for climate change risks through the ongoing development of portfolio may negatively impact the charters. Charter Hall management engage adaptation for settlements and climate change adaptation plans. environment. Managing these impacts the fund boards and committees infrastructure and improving operational efficiency will on strategic and investment decisions The following opportunities and risks have have environmental, financial and social –– We have set a target of 100% reduction seeking fund endorsement of our ongoing also been identified in the Charter Hall benefits. Improvements will also help in Direct (Scope 1 and 2) emissions by approach to climate resilience. Sustainability Strategy: Australia meet its commitment to climate 2030, which equates to an intensity action under the Paris Agreement. of 0kgCO2/m2, by 2030, and investigate Management’s role Opportunities opportunities to work with our tenant –– Energy security and pricing pose a The Charter Hall Executive Committee –– Setting our direct emissions reduction customers and contractors to reduce challenge due to increasing costs and is responsible for delivering on the target of 100% reduction in Direct (Scope our indirect (Scope 3) emissions power cuts during peak events, which commitments defined in our Group 1 and 2) emissions by 2030, which create issues for our customers and –– We report to the CDP and we further Sustainability Policy, including in relation equates to an intensity of 0kgCO2/m2, our assets. disclose Scope 1, Scope 2 and part of to climate change. They are assisted by 2030, and investigating opportunities Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions by our fund, asset, operations and to work with our tenant customers and As we investigate aligning our business, annually in our sustainability report development teams, who are charged contractors to reduce our indirect strategy and financial planning with the with embedding these commitments (Scope 3) emissions. TCFD framework, we will undertake future –– We also disclose Scope 1 and Scope 2 into our day-to-day operations. scenario analyses to better understand the greenhouse gas emissions annually in –– Increasing investment in renewable physical and transitional opportunities, risks accordance with the Australian National Management is responsible for integrating energy opportunities, in our portfolio, in and impacts relevant to our business. Greenhouse and Energy Reporting our climate risk assessment and mitigation partnership with our tenant customers. Scheme (NGERS) approach across all business sectors, We will also seek to formalise a process with each sector tailoring its sustainability –– Making buildings more energy efficient to confirm our reporting and mitigation –– We align short, medium and long-term strategy to integrate the Group-wide targets with short, medium and long-term targets plans remain reflective of Charter Hall’s targets with third party accreditation relevant to their operations. The Charter for Green Building and NABERS outcomes. changing portfolio and up-to-date physical frameworks including Green Star Hall investment team is responsible for –– Improving our environmental performance climate models. and NABERS. incorporating climate risk analysis in our within our operations and developments due diligence processes. We will continue to monitor and refine our through effective management, in progress against climate-related targets as partnership with our tenant customers our climate strategy develops. and contractors and through the utilisation of new technologies. 41 Charter Hall Group Sustainability Report July 2018-June 2019 Performance data Charter Hall office, 1 Martin Place, Sydney NSW 42 Charter Hall Group Sustainability Report July 2018-June 2019 CEO message FY19 highlights About us Our approach Environment Social Governance TCFD Performance data Ten Principles of the UNGC GRI index Assurance statement Environment Asset ratings and certifications NABERS Office Energy Ratings Property Fund FY17 FY18 FY19 NSW 1 Martin Place, Sydney CHOT 3.5 4.5 4.5 1 Shelley Street, Sydney 1 CPOF 5 4.5 4.5 10 Shelley Street, Sydney CPOF/DOF 5 12 Shelley Street, Sydney CPOF/PFA 5 167 Macquarie Street, Sydney CPOF 3 4 4.5 2 Market Street, Sydney (tower) CHOT 5 5 5 2 Market Street, Sydney (forecourt) CHOT 4.5 5 5 2 Park Street, Sydney CHOT 5 5 5 231 Elizabeth Street, Sydney CPOF 5 5.5 333 George Street, Sydney CPOF 5 65 Berry Street, North Sydney CHOT 4 5 5 68 Pitt Street, Sydney DOF 3 3.5 3.5 9-11 Wentworth Place, Parramatta PFA 5 5 5 9 Castlereagh Street, Sydney CPOF 4.5 4.5 4.5 NSW State Average 4.50 4.69 4.82 1 The FY18 NABERS energy rating at 1 Shelley Street has been retrospectively updated from 5 stars to 4.5 stars. 43 Charter Hall Group Sustainability Report July 2018-June 2019 CEO message FY19 highlights About us Our approach Environment Social Governance TCFD Performance data Ten Principles of the UNGC GRI index Assurance statement Environment Asset ratings and certifications continued NABERS Office Energy Ratings continued Property Fund FY17 FY18 FY19 VIC 1 Nicholson Street, Melbourne DOF 4 4 4 11-33 Exhibition Street, Melbourne CPOF 4.5 4.5 4.5 150 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne CHOT 4.5 4.5 5 200 Queen Street, Melbourne DOF 4.5 4.5 4.5 300 La Trobe Street, Melbourne CHOT 5 5 5 570 Bourke Street, Melbourne CPOF 5 5 737 Bourke Street, Melbourne PFA 4.5 55 King Street, Melbourne CPOF 4 4.5 4.5 171 Collins Street, Melbourne CHOT 6 6 5.5 990 Latrobe Street, Melbourne CPOF 5.5 5.5 VIC State Average 4.69 4.67 4.84 QLD 175 Eagle Street, Brisbane CHOT 4 4.5 4 200 Adelaide Street, Brisbane PFA 3.5 2 2.5 266 George Street, Brisbane CPOF/BSWF 4 4 4 275 George Street, Brisbane CPOF 5 5 5 32 Turbot Street, Brisbane CCT 5.5 5.5 69 Ann Street, Brisbane CPOF/DOF 4 4 4 85 George Street, Brisbane CLW/PFA 3.5 2.5 – 56 Edmondstone Road, Bowen Hills CLW 4 4 4.5 61 Mary Street, Brisbane DOF 5 QLD State Average 4.36 4.50 4.59 44 Charter Hall Group Sustainability Report July 2018-June 2019 CEO message FY19 highlights About us Our approach Environment Social Governance TCFD Performance data Ten Principles of the UNGC GRI index Assurance statement Environment Asset ratings and certifications continued NABERS Office Energy Ratings continued Property Fund FY17 FY18 FY19 WA 181 St. Georges Terrace, Perth DOF 2.5 3.5 4 225 St. Georges Terrace, Perth CPOF 3.5 4 4 233 Adelaide Terrace, Perth CHOT 4 4 3.5 303 Sevenoaks Street, Cannington PFA 4.5 5 5 300 Murray Street, Perth CPOF/BSWF 5 5 5 Optima A, 16 Parkland Road, Osborne Park PFA/CLW 4 Optima B, 133 Hasler Road, Osborne Park PFA/CLW 5.5 WA State Average 4.44 4.75 4.71 SA 12-26 Franklin Street, Adelaide DOF/CLW 5.5 5.5 5.5 121 King William Street, Adelaide PFA 5 SA State Average 5.50 5.50 5.39 TAS 134 Macquarie Street, Hobart PFA 3 3 3 TAS State Average 3.00 3.00 3.00 ACT 44 Sydney Avenue, Forrest PFA 4.5 4.5 ACT Territory Average 4.50 4.50 National Average (Weighted by NLA) 4.51 4.65 4.77 45 Charter Hall Group Sustainability Report July 2018-June 2019 CEO message FY19 highlights About us Our approach Environment Social Governance TCFD Performance data Ten Principles of the UNGC GRI index Assurance statement Environment Asset ratings and certifications continued NABERS Office Water Ratings Property Fund FY17 FY18 FY19 NSW 1 Martin Place, Sydney CHOT 2.5 3.5 3.5 1 Shelley Street, Sydney CPOF 4.5 4.5 4.5 10 Shelley Street, Sydney CPOF/DOF 4.0 12 Shelley Street, Sydney CPOF/PFA 4.0 167 Macquarie Street, Sydney CPOF 1 2 1.5 2 Market Street, Sydney (tower) CHOT 3 3 3.5 2 Market Street, Sydney (forecourt) CHOT 3.5 3.5 3.5 2 Park Street, Sydney CHOT 3.5 4 4.0 231 Elizabeth Street, Sydney CPOF 4 4.0 333 George Street, Sydney CPOF 3.0 65 Berry Street, North Sydney CHOT 2 2.5 2.5 68 Pitt Street, Sydney DOF 3 3.5 3.0 9-11 Wentworth Place, Parramatta PFA 4 4 4.0 9 Castlereagh Street, Sydney CPOF 3 3 3.5 NSW State Average 3.19 3.50 3.60 46 Charter Hall Group Sustainability Report July 2018-June 2019 CEO message FY19 highlights About us Our approach Environment Social Governance TCFD Performance data Ten Principles of the UNGC GRI index Assurance statement Environment Asset ratings and certifications continued NABERS Office Water Ratings continued Property Fund FY17 FY18 FY19 VIC 1 Nicholson Street, Melbourne DOF 3 3 2.5 11-33 Exhibition Street, Melbourne CPOF 4 3.5 3.5 150 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne CHOT 3 3 3.5 200 Queen Street, Melbourne DOF 4.5 4.5 4.5 300 La Trobe Street, Melbourne CHOT 3 3.5 3 570 Bourke Street, Melbourne CPOF 3.5 3.5 737 Bourke Street, Melbourne PFA 4 55 King Street, Melbourne CPOF 3 4 4 171 Collins Street, Melbourne CHOT 4 4 4 990 Latrobe Street, Melbourne CPOF 6 6 VIC State Average 3.58 3.74 3.68 QLD 175 Eagle Street, Brisbane CHOT 4 4 4 266 George Street, Brisbane CPOF/BSWF 3.5 3.5 3 275 George Street, Brisbane CPOF 4 4.5 4 32 Turbot Street, Brisbane CCT 4.5 4.5 69 Ann Street, Brisbane CPOF/DOF 4 4 4 85 George Street, Brisbane CLW/PFA 3.5 56 Edmondstone Road, Bowen Hills CLW 4.5 4.5 61 Mary Street, Brisbane DOF 4 QLD State Average 3.81 4.05 3.98 47 Charter Hall Group Sustainability Report July 2018-June 2019 CEO message FY19 highlights About us Our approach Environment Social Governance TCFD Performance data Ten Principles of the UNGC GRI index Assurance statement Environment Asset ratings and certifications continued NABERS Office Water Ratings continued Property Fund FY17 FY18 FY19 WA 181 St. Georges Terrace, Perth DOF 5 5.5 5.5 225 St. Georges Terrace, Perth CPOF 3 3.5 4 233 Adelaide Terrace, Perth CHOT 4 4.5 4.5 303 Sevenoaks Street, Cannington PFA 4.5 5 300 Murray Street, Perth CPOF/BSWF 3.5 4 3.5 Optima A, 16 Parkland Road, Osborne Park PFA/CLW 2.5 Optima B, 133 Hasler Road, Osborne Park PFA/CLW 3.5 WA State Average 3.58 3.80 3.98 SA 12-26 Franklin Street, Adelaide DOF/CLW 4.5 4 4.5 121 King William Street, Adelaide PFA 3.5 SA State Average 4.50 4.00 4.28 TAS 134 Macquarie Street, Hobart PFA 4 3.5 4 TAS State Average 4.00 3.50 4.00 ACT 44 Sydney Avenue, Forrest PFA 5 5.0 ACT Territory Average 5 5.00 National Average (Weighted by NLA) 3.57 3.78 3.80 48 Charter Hall Group Sustainability Report July 2018-June 2019 CEO message FY19 highlights About us Our approach Environment Social Governance TCFD Performance data Ten Principles of the UNGC GRI index Assurance statement Environment Asset ratings and certifications continued NABERS Retail Energy Ratings1 Property Fund FY16 FY17 FY18 NSW Bateau Bay Square, Bateau Bay CHRP2 4 4.5 4 Singleton Square, Singleton CQR 4 4 5 Highlands Marketplace, Mittagong CHRP1 3 4 3.5 Carnes Hill Marketplace, Carnes Hill CHRP1 3.5 3 3 Campbelltown Mall, Campbelltown CPRF 3.5 3 Salamander Bay, Salamander Bay CQR 3.5 3.5 NSW State Average 3.60 3.80 3.60 VIC Lansell Square, Kangaroo Flat CQR 3.5 3 3.5 Rosebud Plaza, Rosebud CQR 3.5 3.5 4 VIC State Average 3.50 3.30 3.80 QLD Great Western Super Centre, Keperra TTP 4.0 3.0 4.5 Arana Hills Plaza, Arana Hills CQR 5 QLD State Average 4.00 3.00 4.70 1 The FY19 NABERS rating for Retail sites were not available at the time of publishing this report. The FY19 ratings will be updated online once available. 49 Charter Hall Group Sustainability Report July 2018-June 2019 CEO message FY19 highlights About us Our approach Environment Social Governance TCFD Performance data Ten Principles of the UNGC GRI index Assurance statement Environment Asset ratings and certifications continued NABERS Retail Energy Ratings continued1 Property Fund FY16 FY17 FY18 WA Waneroo Central, Waneroo2 CQR 3.5 4 South Hedland, South Hedland CQR 3.5 3.5 WA State Average 3.50 3.80 3.50 SA Brickworks Marketplace, Hindmarsh CHRP1 4 4 4 Southgate Square, Morphett Vale CQR 5.5 5.5 SA State Average 4.00 4.70 4.70 National AVERAGE (weighted by GLA) 3.70 3.75 3.90 1 The FY19 NABERS rating for Retail sites were not available at the time of publishing this report. The FY19 ratings will be updated online once available. 2 Not rated due to redevelopment. 50 Charter Hall Group Sustainability Report July 2018-June 2019 CEO message FY19 highlights About us Our approach Environment Social Governance TCFD Performance data Ten Principles of the UNGC GRI index Assurance statement Environment Asset ratings and certifications continued NABERS Retail Water Ratings1 Property Fund FY16 FY17 FY18 NSW Bateau Bay Square, Bateau Bay CHRP2 3.5 4 4 Singleton Square, Singleton CQR 4 3 3.5 Highlands Marketplace, Mittagong CHRP1 2.5 1.5 2.5 Carnes Hill Marketplace, Carnes Hill CHRP1 1.5 0 0 Campbelltown Mall, Campbelltown CPRF 4 3.5 Salamander Bay, Salamander Bay CQR 3 4 NSW State Average 3.00 3.00 3.20 VIC Rosebud Plaza, Rosebud CQR 4.0 4.5 4.5 VIC State Average 4.00 4.50 4.50 OLD Great Western Super Centre, Keperra TTP 4.0 4.0 4.5 Arana Hills Plaza, Arana Hills CQR 5.5 QLD State Average 4.00 4.00 5.00 1 The FY19 NABERS rating for Retail sites were not available at the time of publishing this report. The FY19 ratings will be updated online once available. 51 Charter Hall Group Sustainability Report July 2018-June 2019 CEO message FY19 highlights About us Our approach Environment Social Governance TCFD Performance data Ten Principles of the UNGC GRI index Assurance statement Environment Asset ratings and certifications continued NABERS Retail Water Ratings continued1 Property Fund FY16 FY17 FY18 WA Waneroo Central, Waneroo2 CQR 3.5 4 South Hedland, South Hedland CQR 3.5 3.5 WA State Average 4.50 4.30 4.00 SA Brickworks Marketplace, Hindmarsh CHRP1 3.0 3.5 2.5 Southgate Square, Morphett Vale CQR 3.5 3.5 SA State Average 3.00 3.50 3.00 National AVERAGE (weighted by GLA) 3.40 3.43 3.60 1 The FY19 NABERS rating for Retail sites were not available at the time of publishing this report. The FY19 ratings will be updated online once available. 2 Not rated due to redevelopment. 52 Charter Hall Group Sustainability Report July 2018-June 2019 CEO message FY19 highlights About us Our approach Environment Social Governance TCFD Performance data Ten Principles of the UNGC GRI index Assurance statement Environment Asset ratings and certifications continued Green Star Certified Property Fund Rating Tool NSW Charter Hall Head Office, 1 Martin Place, Sydney CHH 5 Star Office Interiors v1.1 WSU, 1 Parramatta Square, Parramatta CPOF 5 Star Education Design & As Built v1 333 George Street, Sydney CPOF 5 Star Office Design & As Built v3 105 Phillip Street, Parramatta CPOF 6 Star Office Design & As Built v3 1 Shelley Street, Sydney CPOF 6 Star Office Design & As Built v2 Lion Milk Distribution Centre, Chullora CPIF 4 Star Design Review Lake Macquarie Square, Mount Hutton CQR 4 Star Design Review 1 Melito Court, Prestons CPIF 5 Star Design & As Built v1.1 Caroma National Distribution Centre VIC 171 Collins Street, Melbourne CHOT 6 Star Office Design & As Built v2 990 La Trobe Street, Melbourne CPOF 6 Star Office Design v3 130 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne CPOF 6 Star Design Review QLD 275 George Street, Brisbane CPOF 5 Star Office Design & As Built v2 900 Ann Street, Brisbane CPOF 5 Star Office Design & As Built v3 Santos Place, 32 Turbot Street, Brisbane CCT 6 Star Office Design & As Built v2 SA ATO, 12-26 Franklin Street, Adelaide DOF/CLW 5 Star Office Design & As Built v3 GPO Exchange, Adelaide DOF/CLW 6 Star Design Review WA Raine Square, 300 Murray Street, Perth CPOF/BSWF 4 Star Office As Built v2 53 Charter Hall Group Sustainability Report July 2018-June 2019 CEO message FY19 highlights About us Our approach Environment Social Governance TCFD Performance data Ten Principles of the UNGC GRI index Assurance statement Environment Asset ratings and certifications continued Well Certified TM Building WELL rating Date certified Charter Hall Melbourne office Silver New and Existing Interiors Dec-17 Charter Hall Perth office Silver New and Existing Interiors Dec-17 54 Charter Hall Group Sustainability Report July 2018-June 2019 CEO message FY19 highlights About us Our approach Environment Social Governance TCFD Performance data Ten Principles of the UNGC GRI index Assurance statement Environment 1.0 Background notes The table below provides an overview of our 1.2. Water and waste 1.3. Intensity values emissions and the boundaries. These notes provide an overview of Total water consumed comprises potable Intensity values were calculated based on the environmental data provided in this Emissions Boundary water consumed by the whole building (base the total consumption or emissions value report. All data is for the reporting period building and tenant) for our office and retail divided by the total floor area (sqm) for those Scope 1 Scope 1 (direct) emissions portfolio purchased by Charter Hall from local assets for which data was provided. In retail 1 July 2018–30 June 2019. Where we have occur in our office and retail buildings that are jointly owned by two water utilities for sites under our operational Gross Leasable Area (GLA) values were portfolio from fuels that are control, as defined within the NGER Act. used, and in office Net Leasable Area different Charter Hall funds, the lettable combusted on-site (natural area and the environmental data are split Water consumption is based on actual (NLA) values were used. gas and diesel) as well as meter readings from water utilities, unless according to the percentage ownership refrigerant leakage. allocation. Where buildings are jointly owned estimated by the utility. Where invoices are by a Charter Hall Fund and an external Scope 2 Scope 2 (indirect) GHG unavailable or extend across financial years, party, 100% of the lettable area and the emissions from the estimates based on the ‘same day, previous environmental data are included in consumption of purchased year’ consumption are used for reporting. our reporting. electricity. We report In FY19, 26% of water has been estimated emissions from base building using this methodology. electricity across our office, 1.1 Energy and emissions Changes in water consumption generally retail and diversified assets, reflect water efficiency programs and We report our Scope 1 and Scope where we have operational initiatives, tenancy mix, water leakages, plus 2 emissions according to our operational control; corporate tenancies the acquisition and disposal of assets. control boundary under the National and from outdoor lighting in Greenhouse and Energy Reporting Act some of our industrial assets. Waste data for our office and retail 2017. Emission factors for Scope 1 and Scope 3 Scope 3 (indirect) corporate operations is managed and reported by Scope 2 emissions are sourced from the travel emissions from flights. our waste contractors. For retail, waste is NGER Measurement Determination–July weighed where possible or calculated by bin 2018. We also report our Scope 3 emissions Emissions are calculated using energy lifts and density factors, based on historical from corporate travel (flights). content and emissions factors provided data, from the waste contractor. In office, within the NGERS Determination. For those waste is managed by different contractors Changes in energy consumption and assets that have missing invoices, estimates across assets and regions with estimates for emissions generally reflect energy efficiency have been provided. waste data based on waste volume. We do programs and initiatives, plus the acquisition not collect waste data in industrial as this is and disposal of assets. More detail is directly managed by the tenant. provided in the energy and emissions tables on the following pages. 55 Charter Hall Group Sustainability Report July 2018-June 2019 CEO message FY19 highlights About us Our approach Environment Social Governance TCFD Performance data Ten Principles of the UNGC GRI index Assurance statement Environment Electricity consumption The table below reflects the electricity consumption and intensities of our Funds with Office electricity intensity kWh/m2/pa Electricity (kWh) consumption by asset buildings under operational control as at June 2019. Funds that closed during FY19 or class Office prior years, have been excluded, including Workzone and Charter Hall Investment Fund 80 No.8. Office and retail sector numbers include all buildings owned during FY19 so figures 67,399,542 70 will be slightly different from Fund totals reflecting the additional buildings in Funds 57,626,607 55,000,711 60 that were part–owned during the year. Where data has been obtained for prior 50 years subsequent to previous annual reporting, our figures have been updated for 40 reporting accuracy. 30 20 Commentary 10 0 Charter Hall Group electricity consumption for our stable assets in FY19 decreased by FY17 FY18 FY19 FY17 FY18 FY19 4%, this is attributed to building energy efficiency upgrades across the Retail and Office sectors. Our total Group consumption in FY19 went up by 16% compared to FY18, this increase reflects our growing portfolio which has seen a more than 10% increase in NLA and as a result our Group electricity intensity also increased by 3%. Retail electricity intensity kWh/m2/pa Electricity (kWh) consumption by asset In the Office sector, the electricity consumption in FY19 for our stable assets decreased by class Retail 3%, reflecting the improvements energy efficiency and NABERS Energy ratings. However, 80 35,710,746 the overall Office sector consumption has increased by 23% from FY18, with electricity 70 intensity increasing by 1%. These changes reflect the growth in the portfolio with an 60 34,531,371 NLA increase of 22% compared to FY18. The increase is attributed to acquisition of sites, 50 new developments coming online, and an on-site co-generation mechanical issue in 40 late FY19. 32,220,602 30 20 In our retail portfolio the overall electricity consumption across all sites increased by 10 3% from FY18, with electricity intensity increasing by about 5%. This is despite undertaking 0 further LED upgrades in our common mall and outside lighting. The year on year FY17 FY18 FY19 FY17 FY18 FY19 performance reflects the acquisition of a number of large, centrally serviced malls as well as the divestment of a number of smaller, non-centrally serviced centres where the air-conditioning is often on the tenant board and not controlled by Charter Hall. Consumption and intensity trends across the funds reflect those describe for each sector above. Diversified funds are comprised of five funds which were acquired with the former Folkestone portfolio. 56 Charter Hall Group Sustainability Report July 2018-June 2019 CEO message FY19 highlights About us Our approach Environment Social Governance TCFD Performance data Ten Principles of the UNGC GRI index Assurance statement Environment Electricity FY17 Intensity FY18 Intensity FY19 Intensity FY17 FY17 NLA kWh/m2 FY18 FY18 NLA kWh/m2 FY19 FY19 NLA kWh/m2 Purchased electricity (kWh)1 (kWh) (sqm) /pa (kWh) (sqm) /pa (kWh) (sqm) /pa OFFICE Charter Hall Office Trust 16,242,043 268,114 60.58 14,754,813 225,945 65.30 13,062,088 206,463 63.27 Charter Hall Prime Office Fund2 23,578,660 331,730 69.73 23,027,347 335,155 68.71 27,637,130 393,963 70.15 Charter Hall Direct Office Fund 6,333,100 85,902 73.73 6,035,962 83,197 72.55 8,049,319 128,105 62.83 PFA Diversified Property Trust 2 5,100,392 66,950 76.18 4,333,820 60,177 72.02 7,103,191 103,995 68.30 Brisbane Square Wholesale Fund 4,464,658 60,908 73.30 3,987,091 52,126 76.49 4,360,450 60,908 71.59 Charter Hall CCT Fund n/a n/a n/a 1,068,688 20,640 51.78 4,031,048 55,469 72.67 Charter Hall Long WALE REIT 1,253,628 24,400 51.38 1,792,990 36,802 48.72 2,531,916 33,951 74.58 Deep Value Partnership – – 624,401 8,228 75.89 Total (excl corporate offices) 56,972,481 838,003 67.51 55,000,711 814,040 67.57 67,399,542 991,081 68.01 1 Calculated based on NGERS methodology base building under operational control. 2 FY18 figures for CPOF, PFA, CQR and Industrial outdoor lighting have been updated to provide a more accurate assessment based on invoiced data. 57 Charter Hall Group Sustainability Report July 2018-June 2019 CEO message FY19 highlights About us Our approach Environment Social Governance TCFD Performance data Ten Principles of the UNGC GRI index Assurance statement Environment Electricity continued FY17 Intensity FY18 Intensity FY19 Intensity FY17 FY17 NLA kWh/m2 FY18 FY18 NLA kWh/m2 FY19 FY19 NLA kWh/m2 Purchased electricity (kWh) 1 (kWh) (sqm) /pa (kWh) (sqm) /pa (kWh) (sqm) /pa RETAIL Charter Hall Retail REIT2 21,300,790 489,430 43.80 22,913,688 503,880 45.47 23,160,348 489,200 47.34 Charter Hall Prime Retail Fund 3,052,496 41,208 111.70 4,099,870 41,208 99.49 5,350,422 48,607 110.08 Charter Hall Retail Partnership No. 1 2,272,534 51,728 44.65 2,353,422 47,648 49.39 2,062,569 43,841 47.05 Charter Hall Retail Partnership No. 2 1,566,132 29,143 53.74 1,571,561 29,143 53.93 1,617,798 29,143 55.51 Charter Hall Retail Partnership No. 6 3,324,503 33,140 100.32 3,014,112 33,140 90.95 2,966,856 33,140 89.52 TTP Wholesale Fund 704,147 15,398 45.73 578,719 15,398 37.58 552,754 15,398 35.90 Total 32,220,602 660,048 48.82 34,531,371 670,417 51.51 35,710,746 659,329 54.16 INDUSTRIAL Industrial outdoor lighting2 72,609 n/a n/a 143,950 n/a n/a 144,352 n/a n/a Industrial total 72,609 n/a 143,950 n/a 144,352 n/a OTHER3 Diversified 837,603 25,777 32.49 Diversified total 837,603 25,777 32.49 Charter Hall Limited (corporate offices) Corporate Offices 303,634 406,733 392,681 Corporate Offices total 303,634 406,732 392,681 Total Charter Hall 89,569,326 90,082,761 104,484,924 1 Calculated based on NGERS methodology base building under operational control. 2 FY18 figures for CPOF, PFA, CQR and Industrial outdoor lighting have been updated to provide a more accurate assessment based on invoiced data. 3 F  ive Folkestone sites (consisting of office, bulky goods, residential and retirement living), now called Diversified, were acquired, as part of the Folkestone funds management business, in November 2018 and are now under Charter Hall operational control. 58 Charter Hall Group Sustainability Report July 2018-June 2019 CEO message FY19 highlights About us Our approach Environment Social Governance TCFD Performance data Ten Principles of the UNGC GRI index Assurance statement Environment The following table contains on-site electricity production from four solar PV systems and three co-generation systems installed on Charter Hall buildings under our operational control. This data does not include assets where we have solar PV systems on buildings under tenant operational control. Solar production referenced on page 20 'Investing in renewable technologies' refers to the combined assets within our portfolio with solar PV systems operated by the tenant customer. On-site generated electricity 1 Solar electricity production (kWh) FY17 FY18 FY19 44 Sydney Ave n/a 12,741 23,844 Singleton Shopping Centre n/a 179,186 282,733 21-25 Nile Street 71,216 Lake Macquarie Fair 98,085 Total n/a 191,927 475,878 Co-generation electricity production (kW) FY17 FY18 FY19 171 Collins Street, Melbourne 512,213 329,764 315,940 990 La Trobe Street, Melbourne2 n/a 657,677 650,512 32 Turbot Street, Brisbane n/a 318,860 164,030 Total 512,213 1,306,301 1,130,482 Total on-site electricity production FY19 (kWh) 512,213 1,498,228 1,606,360 1 Solar electricity production from Charter Hall for buildings under operational control only. 2 FY18 generated electricity at 990 La Trobe has been updated to reflect accurate usage for area under Charter Hall operational control. 59 Charter Hall Group Sustainability Report July 2018-June 2019 CEO message FY19 highlights About us Our approach Environment Social Governance TCFD Performance data Ten Principles of the UNGC GRI index Assurance statement Environment Gas The table below reflects the gas consumption and intensities Office gas intensity MJ/m2/pa Office gas MJ of our Funds with buildings under operational control as at 60,628,935 30 June 2019. Funds that closed during FY19 or prior years, 100 have been excluded. Where data has been obtained for prior years subsequent to previous annual reporting, our figures have 80 been updated to provide a more accurate assessment. 60 Commentary 55,537,166 56,450,360 40 Overall Charter Hall Group's gas usage has increased by 20 8% and the NLA, of sites with gas, has increased by 4%. Office gas consumption went up by 7%, in part due to growth in the 0 FY17 FY18 FY19 FY17 FY18 FY19 portfolio, and the intensity has increased by 3%, this is despite fine tuning and optimisation initiatives implemented at a number of sites. Retail gas usage has increased by 27% this is due to a faulty BMS issue at one of the Retail Centres, which has now Retail gas intensity MJ/m2/pa Retail gas MJ been resolved. 12 677,473 In FY19 one of the sites (a retirement living asset) acquired as part of the acquisition of the Folkestone funds management 10 535,128 521,255 business in November 2018, now classified in the Diversified 8 sector, is under Charter Hall operational control. 6 4 2 0 FY17 FY18 FY19 FY17 FY18 FY19 60 Charter Hall Group Sustainability Report July 2018-June 2019 CEO message FY19 highlights About us Our approach Environment Social Governance TCFD Performance data Ten Principles of the UNGC GRI index Assurance statement Environment Gas Consumption FY17 Intensity Consumption FY18 Intensity Consumption FY19 Intensity GAS MJ NLA MJ/m2/pa MJ NLA MJ/m2/pa MJ NLA MJ/m2/pa Purchased gas (MJ)1 FY17 (MJ) FY18 (MJ) FY19 (MJ) OFFICE Charter Hall Office Trust 2 22,069,528 268,114 82.31 16,836,232 225,945 74.51 14,729,253 206,463 71.34 Charter Hall Prime Office Fund2 23,664,462 288,000 82.17 27,763,691 296,232 91.33 31,934,796 318,161 100.37 Charter Hall Direct Office Fund2 7,763,407 68,966 112.57 6,766,768 65,389 95.63 6,990,922 75,165 93.01 PFA Diversified Property Trust 2 156,013 3,571 43.69 869,854 7,025 123.82 2,005,966 17,192 116.68 Brisbane Square Wholesale Fund2 938,887 51,298 18.30 1,001,013 51,299 23.00 2,139,320 51,299 41.70 Charter Hall CCT Fund n/a n/a 1,629,106 20,454 79.65 1,916,229 35,382 54.16 Charter Hall Long WALE REIT2 944,869 24,400 38.72 1,583,697 36,807 43.03 912,450 25,648 35.58 Office total 55,537,166 704,348 80.15 57,304,821 708,496 79.68 60,628,935 729,309 83.13 RETAIL Charter Hall Retail REIT2 478,520 28,107 17.02 458,021 28,107 16.30 612,811 23,128 26.50 Charter Hall Prime Retail Fund 42,735 27,321 1.56 77,107 41,208 1.87 64,662 41,208 1.57 Retail total 521,255 55,428 9.40 535,128 69,315 7.72 677,473 64,336 10.53 OTHER3 Folkestone Seniors Living Fund No. 1 29836 2800 10.66 Diversified 29836 2800 10.66 1 Calculated based on NGERS methodology base building under operational control. 2 FY18 figures for CHOT, CPOF, DOF, PFA, BSWF, CLW and CQR has been updated to provide a more accurate assessment based on invoiced data. 3 Denotes a retirement living site part of the acquisition of the Folkestone funds management business in November 2018. 61 Charter Hall Group Sustainability Report July 2018-June 2019 CEO message FY19 highlights About us Our approach Environment Social Governance TCFD Performance data Ten Principles of the UNGC GRI index Assurance statement Environment Greenhouse gas emissions The table below reflects the Scope 1 and 2 emissions total and intensities of our Funds with buildings under operational control as at June 2019. Funds that closed during FY19 or prior years, have been excluded. Where data has been obtained for prior years subsequent to previous annual reporting, our figures have been updated to provide a more accurate assessment. Commentary Overall Group emissions intensities have reduced on stable assets, during FY19. However, Charter Hall total emissions have increased by 15% since FY18, which reflects an expansion in the portfolio and developments coming on line, resulting in NLA increasing by 13%. In FY19, there was a slight increase was observed in Scope 1 emissions, from the previous year, due to more accurate reporting. Our office portfolio decreased their emission intensity by 1%, this is despite a 19% increase in total emissions in the sector. This reflects the divestment of a number of buildings which were less energy efficient, the acquisition of more energy efficient assets, as well as a number of base building energy efficiency upgrades initiatives. Our retail portfolio increased their emission intensity by 8% despite the sale of smaller, less energy intensive, assets, due to increased use of gas and the acquisition of larger, more energy intensive assets and the sale of smaller assets which are less energy intensive. Intensity trends across the funds reflect those describe for each sector above. Diversified funds comprise five funds which were acquired as part of the Folkestone funds management business. FY17 FY17 NLA FY17 Intensity FY18 FY18 NLA FY18 Intensity FY19 FY19 NLA FY19 Intensity Scope 1 & 2 GHG (kg CO 2 e)1 (kgCO 2 e) (sqm) (kgCO 2 /m2/pa) (kgCO 2 e) (sqm) (kgCO 2 /m2/pa) (kgCO 2 e) (sqm) (kgCO 2 /m2/pa) OFFICE Charter Hall Office Trust 16,698,660 268,114 62.28 15,075,488 225,945 66.72 13,371,957 206,463 64.77 Charter Hall Prime Office Fund 23,060,003 331,730 69.51 22,356,553 335,155 66.71 26,792,058 393,963 68.01 Charter Hall Direct Office Fund 6,714,690 85,902 78.17 6,314,599 83,197 75.90 8,392,008 128,105 65.51 PFA Diversified Property Trust 3,299,531 66,950 48.24 2,724,484 60,177 45.27 4,140,139 103,995 47.22 Brisbane Square Wholesale Fund 3,780,179 60,908 62.06 3,324,920 52,126 63.79 3,397,011 60,908 55.77 Charter Hall CCT Fund n/a n/a n/a 1,024,492 20,640 49.64 3,489,367 55,469 62.91 Charter Hall Long WALE REIT n/a n/a n/a 1,200,941 36,802 32.63 1,937,879 33,951 57.08 Deep Value Partnership 499,521 8,228 60.71 Office total 53,553,062 813,603 65.82 52,021,478 814,040 63.91 62,019,939 991,081 63.36 1 Calculated based on NGERS methodology base building under operational control. 62 Charter Hall Group Sustainability Report July 2018-June 2019 CEO message FY19 highlights About us Our approach Environment Social Governance TCFD Performance data Ten Principles of the UNGC GRI index Assurance statement Environment Greenhouse gas emissions continued FY17 FY17 NLA FY17 Intensity FY18 FY18 NLA FY18 Intensity FY19 FY19 NLA FY19 Intensity Scope 1 & 2 GHG (kg CO 2 e)1 (kgCO 2 e) (sqm) (kgCO 2 /m2/pa) (kgCO 2 e) (sqm) (kgCO 2 /m2/pa) (kgCO 2 e) (sqm) (kgCO 2 /m2/pa) RETAIL Charter Hall Retail REIT 17,993,150 489,430 37.53 19,414,777 508,028 38.22 19,399,406 489,200 40.73 Charter Hall Prime Retail Fund 2,566,417 41,208 62.28 3,444,500 41,208 83.59 4,867,634 48,607 100.14 Charter Hall Retail Partnership No. 1 1,806,861 51,728 34.93 1,786,560 47,648 37.49 1,545,414 43,841 35.25 Charter Hall Retail Partnership No. 2 1,391,741 29,143 48.28 1,433,158 29,143 49.18 1,455,407 29,143 49.94 Charter Hall Retail Partnership No. 6 2,811,887 33,140 84.85 2,556,599 33,140 77.15 2,432,930 33,140 73.41 TTP Wholesale Fund 549,235 15,398 35.67 457,242 15,398 29.69 442,230 15,398 28.72 Retail total 27,119,291 660,048 41.09 29,092,835 674,565 43.13 30,143,022 659,329 46.51 INDUSTRIAL Industrial outdoor lighting 65,127 n/a n/a 127,529 n/a 144,678 n/a Industrial total 65,127 127,529 144,678 1 Calculated based on NGERS methodology base building under operational control. Office emissions intensity KG/m2/pa Office GHG emissions (KGCO2e) Retail emissions intensity KG/m2/pa Retail GHG emissions (KGCO2e) 70 62,019,939 50 60 40 50 40 30 30,143,022 53,553,062 30 20 29,092,835 52,021,478 20 10 27,119,291 10 0 0 FY17 FY18 FY19 FY17 FY18 FY19 FY17 FY18 FY19 FY17 FY18 FY19 63 Charter Hall Group Sustainability Report July 2018-June 2019 CEO message FY19 highlights About us Our approach Environment Social Governance TCFD Performance data Ten Principles of the UNGC GRI index Assurance statement Environment Greenhouse gas emissions continued FY17 FY17 NLA FY17 Intensity FY18 FY18 NLA FY18 Intensity FY19 FY19 NLA FY19 Intensity Scope 1 & 2 GHG (kg CO 2 e)1 (kgCO 2 e) (sqm) (kgCO 2 /m2/pa) (kgCO 2 e) (sqm) (kgCO 2 /m2/pa) (kgCO 2 e) (sqm) (kgCO 2 /m2/pa) OTHER2 Diversified 1,137,196 25,776 26.99 Diversified total 1,137,196 25,776 26.99 CHARTER HALL LIMITED (CORPORATE OFFICES) Corporate Offices 258,000 336,000 320,490 Charter Hall Limited (corporate offices) total 258,000 336,000 320,490 1 Calculated based on NGERS methodology base building under operational control. 2 F  ive Folkestone sites (consisting of office, bulky goods, residential and retirement living), now called Diversified, were acquired, as part of the Folkestone funds management business, in November 2018 and are now under Charter Hall operational control. 64 Charter Hall Group Sustainability Report July 2018-June 2019 CEO message FY19 highlights About us Our approach Environment Social Governance TCFD Performance data Ten Principles of the UNGC GRI index Assurance statement Environment Water consumption The table below reflects the water consumption and intensities of our Funds with buildings under operational control as at June 2018. Office water intensity KL/m2/pa Funds that closed during FY19 or prior years, have been excluded. Where data has been obtained for prior years subsequent to previous annual reporting, our figures have been updated to provide a more accurate assessment. 0.8 0.7 Commentary 0.6 0.5 Overall, the Charter Hall Group water usage, across stable assets has remained consistent for FY19. Across the Group, including new 0.4 assets and development, water usage has increased by 5%, which reflects the increase in NLA. Office water consumption has increased 0.3 by 12% however overall intensity has decreased by 1%. Retail usage and intensity has decreased by 4% and 3% respectively. 0.2 In FY19, five Ex-Folkestone sites (consisting of office, bulky goods, residential and retirement living), now called Diversified, were acquired 0.1 in November 2018 and are now under Charter Hall operational control. The water data for these sites has been reported in the FY19 figures. 0.0 FY17 FY18 FY19 Consumption trends across the funds reflect those describe for each sector above. Diversified funds are comprised of five funds which were acquired as part of the Folkestone funds management business. FY17 FY18 FY19 Office water KL FY17 NLA Intensity FY18 NLA Intensity FY19 NLA Intensity Potable water consumption (kL)1,2,3 FY17 (kL) (sqm) kL/m2/pa FY18 (kL) (sqm) kL/m2/pa FY19 (kL) (sqm) kL/m2/pa 602,196 OFFICE Charter Hall Office Trust 184,385 268,114 0.69 169,942 225,945 0.75 138,554 206,463 0.67 Charter Hall Prime Office Fund 2,3 214,809 322,180 0.67 207,823 325,252 0.64 257,212 360,356 0.72 Charter Hall Direct Office Fund3 50,456 85,902 0.59 52,556 82,406 0.64 60,705 108,471 0.56 538,911 539,528 PFA Diversified Property Trust 41,750 55,544 0.75 38,681 53,699 0.72 47,596 76,096 0.63 Brisbane Square Wholesale Fund 47,511 51,298 0.93 44,857 51,298 0.87 56,682 51,298 1.10 Charter Hall CCT Fund n/a n/a n/a 10,099 20,640 0.49 24,178 55,469 0.44 FY17 FY18 FY19 Deep Value Partnership 1,064 9,873 0.11 Charter Hall Long WALE REIT n/a n/a n/a 15,569 36,802 0.42 16,373 32,772 0.49 Office total 538,911 783,037 0.69 539,528 796,041 0.68 602,196 900,797 0.67 1 T otal water consumed comprises potable water for our office and retail portfolio purchased by Charter Hall from local water utilities for sites under our operational control, as defined within the NGER Act. Water consumption is based on actual meter readings from water utilities, unless estimated by the utility. Where invoices are unavailable or extend across financial years, estimates based on the ‘same day, previous year’ consumption are used for reporting. In FY19 26% water has been estimated using this methodology. 2 Water invoices for new sites that have come on in the last quarter of FY19 have not been reported, water for these sites will be reported once the invoices are received. 3 FY18 figures for all funds have been updated to provide a more accurate assessment based on invoiced data. 65 Charter Hall Group Sustainability Report July 2018-June 2019 CEO message FY19 highlights About us Our approach Environment Social Governance TCFD Performance data Ten Principles of the UNGC GRI index Assurance statement Environment Water consumption continued FY17 FY18 FY19 Retail water KL/m2/pa FY17 NLA Intensity FY18 NLA Intensity FY19 NLA Intensity Potable water consumption (kL)1 FY17 (kL) (sqm) kL/m2/pa FY18 (kL) (sqm) kL/m2/pa FY19 (kL) (sqm) kL/m2/pa 1.0 RETAIL 0.9 0.8 Charter Hall Retail REIT2 363,959 475,632 0.77 337,232 484,497 0.71 324,098 484,700 0.67 0.7 0.6 Charter Hall Prime Retail Fund 24,653 27,321 0.90 37,864 41,208 0.92 38,434 41,208 0.93 0.5 Charter Hall Retail Partnership No. 1 62,150 51,728 1.20 49,683 47,360 1.07 44,726 43,841 1.02 0.4 0.3 Charter Hall Retail Partnership No. 2 22,471 29,143 0.77 23,623 29,143 0.81 23,304 29,143 0.80 0.2 Charter Hall Retail Partnership No. 6 70,030 33,140 2.11 66,130 33,140 2.00 65,991 33,140 1.99 0.1 0.0 TTP Wholesale Fund 15,584 15,398 1.02 13,260 15,398 0.86 11,798 15,398 0.77 FY17 FY18 FY19 Retail total 558,848 632,363 0.88 527,791 650,745 0.81 508,350 647,430 0.79 OTHER2 Diversified 14,014 25,777 0.54 Retail water KL Diversified total 14,014 25,777 0.54 Total Charter Hall 1,067,319 1,446,786 1,124,561 1,574,003 558,848 1 T  otal water consumed comprises potable water for our office and retail portfolio purchased by Charter Hall from local water utilities for sites under our operational control, as defined within the NGER Act. Water consumption is based on actual meter readings from water utilities, unless estimated by the utility. Where invoices are unavailable or extend across financial years, estimates based on the ‘same day, previous year’ consumption are used for reporting. In FY19 26% water has been estimated using this methodology. 527,791 2 F  ive Folkestone sites (consisting of office, bulky goods, residential and retirement living), now called Diversified, were acquired, as part of the Folkestone funds management business, in November 2018 and are now under Charter Hall operational control 508,350 FY17 FY18 FY19 66 Charter Hall Group Sustainability Report July 2018-June 2019 CEO message FY19 highlights About us Our approach Environment Social Governance TCFD Performance data Ten Principles of the UNGC GRI index Assurance statement Environment Waste and recycling The tables below reflect the waste generation at assets under operational control as at June 2019. Assets that closed during FY19 or prior years, have been excluded. Where data has been obtained for prior years subsequent to previous annual reporting, our figures have been updated to provide a more accurate assessment. Commentary In FY19, Charter Hall Office buildings diverted 32% of waste from landfill a 3% decrease from FY18. In FY18, we worked hard to align our reporting standards with the Better Buildings Partnership (BBP) Nominal Standards, with waste figures calculated through the collection of daily bin data from our waste contractors and NABERS waste density factors applied. This enabled Charter Hall to establish accurate baseline data to compare year-on-year improvements across office operations. Twenty-four of our office sites (60%) shifted from a Nominal reporting standard to BBP Silver Rating and 4 sites (7.5%) to a BBP Gold Rating. BBP Gold reflects the most accurate data is obtained where a site’s waste and recycling streams are weighed at the time of collection and where contamination in recycling streams is accounted for. The retail sector diverted 24% from landfill in FY19, this is a 2% increase compared to FY18. We attribute the improved diversion rate to the implementation of waste management plans and improved waste management initiatives, including the addition of new waste recycling streams, tenant education, updates to signage and reporting methods year-on-year, despite an increase in our retail footprint. Retail 2 Office Waste by disposal method (tonnes) 1 FY17 FY18 FY19 FY17 FY18 FY19 Landfill 4,495 4,488 4,778 2,877 4,173 3,069 Waste to energy 1,500 1,521 1,250 n/a n/a n/a Recycling 1,678 1,679 1,919 1,784 2,243 1,459 Total 7,673 7,688 7,947 4,661 6,415 4,528 Total diverted from landfill 22% 22% 24% 38% 35% 32% Waste diverted from landfill FY17 FY18 FY19 Office 38% 35% 32% Retail 22% 22% 24% Scope 3 GHG (t CO 2 e) FY17 FY18 FY19 Corporate travel (flights) 3 1,314 1,158 1,282 1 Waste and recycling figures for assets under operational control as defined by NGER legislation and where waste is controlled by Charter Hall. 2 Retail waste reporting includes sites within the national Veolia contract only. 3 Calculated using emission factors published in 2017 by the UK Government Department for Business, Energy & Industrial Strategy (DBEIS). 67 Charter Hall Group Sustainability Report July 2018-June 2019 CEO message FY19 highlights About us Our approach Environment Social Governance TCFD Performance data Ten Principles of the UNGC GRI index Assurance statement Social Diversity and inclusion FY17 FY18 FY191 Gender Gender Prefer not Prefer not Parental leave Total Male Female Total Male Female to say Total Male Female to say Entitled to paid parental leave 409 200 209 474 216 257 1 546 247 298 1 Commenced primary parental leave 14 1 13 16 1 15 0 17 1 16 0 Still on primary parental leave 11 0 11 11 0 11 0 15 0 15 0 Returned to Work 4 1 3 4 1 3 0 2 1 1 0 No longer employed or did not return 1 1 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 FY19 includes Contract Fixed Term, those who returned to work returned during FY19 (they may have commenced leave in a prior reporting period). Return to work rate FY18 parental leavers FY17 FY18 Took primary parental leave in FY18 14 26 Returned to Work and still employed (30 June 2019) 14 25 No longer employed or did not return 0 1 Still on primary parental leave 0 0 Total 100% 96% FY17 FY18 FY19 Board composition by gender2 Number Rate Number Rate Number Rate Male 3 60% 3 60% 4 67% Female 2 40% 2 40% 2 33% Total 5 100% 5 100% 6 100% 2 Non Executive Directors only. 68 Charter Hall Group Sustainability Report July 2018-June 2019 CEO message FY19 highlights About us Our approach Environment Social Governance TCFD Performance data Ten Principles of the UNGC GRI index Assurance statement Social Diversity and inclusion continued Remuneration ratio FY17 FY18 FY19 Remuneration reported in terms of the ratio of female Remuneration ratio1 Female Male Male Female Male remuneration in relation to male remuneration within each Senior Management 0.75 1 0.69 1 0.71 1 defined job band. Management 0.86 1 0.88 1 0.87 1 Job bands consist of: Senior Professional 1.01 1 1.03 1 1.01 1 –– Senior Management comprises Managing Director, Professional 0.94 1 0.90 1 0.87 1 Executive Committee and Heads of Divisions Support 0.85 1 0.85 1 0.86 1 –– Management comprises Senior Managers All company 0.58 1 0.58 1 0.59 1 –– Senior Professional comprises Managers, Senior 1 Above is average of full time fixed remuneration only and excluding employee prefer not to say to maintain confidentiality Professionals and Experienced Professionals –– Professional comprises: –– Mid–level Professionals, Team Leaders and Senior Support Staff –– Professional and Experienced Support Staff –– Support comprises Support Staff Metric boundary: –– Includes only full–time and part–time permanent and fixed–term contract employees –– Includes only fixed remuneration 69 Charter Hall Group Sustainability Report July 2018-June 2019 CEO message FY19 highlights About us Our approach Environment Social Governance TCFD Performance data Ten Principles of the UNGC GRI index Assurance statement Social Diversity and inclusion continued Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing their career endings Induction –– STARTER – mandatory online modules completed within the first month of employment which summarise our organisational structure, strategy, culture and way of working, and key components across the employee lifecycle –– Fundamentals to know as a Charter Hall employee –– IT Introduction – step-by-step introduction to our technology and how to use it both in the office and when working remotely –– Environment tour – a guided tour of the workplace to raise awareness of different office spaces and better understand how to use each space to optimise performance –– Induction day – an interactive, 1.5 day face-to-face program that shares insights into the foundations of the organisation, and explains how our divisions and assets operate and interact to reinforce the importance of collaboration and customer focus Compliance –– Safetrac – annual online compliance modules which are mandatory for all employees and focus on areas such as work, health and safety, ethics, security and integrity –– Bite Sized Learning – regular short, face-to-face sessions that focus on areas such as risk, bullying and harassment, and general compliance Technical –– Lunch n Learn – regular short face-to-face sessions managed by each division to focus on specific technical requirements and better understanding the impacts of their operations on other parts of the business –– External Short Courses and Conferences – on an as needs basis aligned to individual development plans. Examples of these courses include Essentials of Finance for Non Finance Managers, Property Valuation, Leasing Fundamentals, Asset Management, Real Estate Certificate Program General –– Bite Sized Learning – regular short face-to-face sessions available to all employees to build important skills and capabilities such as networking, presentation skills, emotional intelligence, having critical conversations –– MindTools – online e-learning platform available to all employees to access a range of learning and development resources on an as needs basis, anywhere and at any time –– Live Tuesday sessions – monthly breakfast learning sessions where we invite speakers to share their stories and challenge our thinking about a wide range of local and global issues. These sessions have included customers, market analysts, business leaders in renewable technologies, community entrepreneurs and health and wellbeing advocates Management and leadership –– Manager Success Series – a series of live, virtual workshops to provide frontline managers with knowledge and tools to enhance their people management effectiveness. Topics include making great hiring decisions, maximising on the job learning, everyday coaching and leading teams through change –– Leadership Development Program – a circa 10 month coaching based program for new leaders that focuses on building self awareness (informed by 360 degree feedback) and developing personal, team and strategic leadership skills 70 Charter Hall Group Sustainability Report July 2018-June 2019 CEO message FY19 highlights About us Our approach Environment Social Governance TCFD Performance data Ten Principles of the UNGC GRI index Assurance statement Social Diversity and inclusion continued Percentage of employees receiving regular (annual) Percentage of Employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender performance and career development reviews and employee category. Employee category Gender % Percentage reported in terms of proportion of total employees Senior management Male 100% by gender and employee category receiving annual performance Female 100% and career development reviews. Management Male 100% Female 100% Job bands consist of: –– Senior Management comprises Managing Director, Executive Senior Professional Male 100% Committee and Heads of Divisions Female 100% Professional or Experienced Support; Support Male 100% –– Management comprises Senior Managers Female 100% –– Senior Professional comprises Managers, The above table includes performance and career development reviews completed for permanent employees and a select number of fixed term employees –– Senior Professionals and Experienced Professionals where they have short-term incentives in place. Given that performance reviews are finalised in September of the following reporting period, the FY19 performance reviews completion rate only includes eligible employees that were still employed as at 3 September 2019. The performance review completion rate metric also excludes the following: employees that are still within their 3–6 month probationary period as at 30 June 2019; employees who have –– Professional comprises: transitioned to a new role within the organisation within the FY19 period. –– Mid–level Professionals, Team Leaders and Senior Support Staff –– Professional and Experienced Support Staff –– Support comprises Support Staff. 71 Charter Hall Group Sustainability Report July 2018-June 2019 CEO message FY19 highlights About us Our approach Environment Social Governance TCFD Performance data Ten Principles of the UNGC GRI index Assurance statement Social Diversity and inclusion continued Workforce breakdown by job band, age and gender Workforce reported in terms of: Job bands consist of: Metric boundary: –– Number: Number of employees by age and gender –– Senior Management comprises Managing Director, Includes only full–time and part–time permanent within each defined job band Executive Committee and Heads of Divisions and fixed–term contract employees. –– Percentage: Proportion of employees by age and –– Management comprises Senior Managers gender within each defined job band –– Senior Professional comprises Managers, Senior Professionals and Experienced Professionals –– Professional comprises: − Mid–level Professionals, Team Leaders and Senior Support Staff − Professional and Experienced Support Staff –– Support comprises Support Staff Senior Management Management Senior Professional Professional Support Workforce breakdown by Prefer not Prefer not Prefer not Prefer not Prefer not job band, age and gender Male Female to say Male Female to say Male Female to say Male Female to say Male Female to say Under 30 0 0 0 0 1 0 16 4 0 25 48 0 2 15 0 30-50 22 7 0 55 18 0 39 42 0 45 99 1 4 41 0 50+ years 7 0 0 7 3 0 3 3 0 16 3 0 6 14 0 Total 29 7 0 62 22 0 58 49 0 86 150 1 12 70 0 Total of each job band 36 84 107 237 82 Senior Management Management Senior Professional Professional Support Workforce breakdown by Prefer not Prefer not Prefer not Prefer not Prefer not job band, age and gender Male Female to say Male Female to say Male Female to say Male Female to say Male Female to say Under 30 0% 0% 0% 0% 1% 0% 15% 4% 0% 11% 20% 0% 2% 18% 0% 30-50 61% 19% 0% 65% 21% 0% 36% 39% 0% 19% 42% 0% 5% 50% 0% 50+ years 19% 0% 0% 8% 4% 0% 3% 3% 0% 7% 1% 0% 7% 17% 0% Total 81% 19% 0% 74% 26% 0% 54% 46% 0% 36% 63% 0% 15% 85% 0% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 72 Charter Hall Group Sustainability Report July 2018-June 2019 CEO message FY19 highlights About us Our approach Environment Social Governance TCFD Performance data Ten Principles of the UNGC GRI index Assurance statement Social Our workforce Employee breakdown by contract type and gender: Contract type consists of: Metric boundary: Employee breakdown reported in terms of number of –– Permanent full–time Includes only full–time and part–time permanent employees by gender within each contract type. and fixed–term contract employees. –– Permanent part–time –– Fixed–term full–time –– Fixed–term part–time FY17 FY18 FY19 Employee breakdown by contract Prefer not Prefer not Prefer not type and gender Employees Male Female to say Employees Male Female to say Employees Male Female to say Permanent full-time 380 197 182 1 406 201 204 1 447 225 221 1 Permanent part-time 30 3 27 0 40 3 37 0 48 4 44 0 Fixed-term full-time 20 4 16 0 24 11 13 0 49 18 31 0 Fixed-term part-time 4 1 3 0 4 1 3 0 2 0 2 0 Total 434 205 228 1 474 216 257 1 546 247 298 1 Health and safety FY18 FY19 Employee recordable injury by type 1 Fatalities 0 0 Medical treatment injuries2 1 6 Lost time injuries3 1 1 Employee recordable injury rate 4,6 2.66 7.23 Employee lost time injury rate5,6 1.33 1.2 1 Employees includes only full-time and part-time permanent employees and fixed-term contract employees. It excludes contractors. 2 M edical treatment injuries refer to work-related incidents that require medical treatment beyond the first aid capability or authority of an industrial paramedic. They include injuries resulting in restricted duties (light duties) but no lost time. 3 Lost time injuries refer to work-related incidents that resulted in a fatality, permanent disability or time lost from work of one day/shift or more. 4 E mployee recordable injury frequency rate (TRIFR) includes medical treatment and lost time incidents. It excludes first aid cases and other non-work-related incidents. 5 Employee lost time injury frequency rate (LTIFR) includes lost time incidents as defined above. 6 Based on 1,000,000 hours worked, including overtime. 73 Charter Hall Group Sustainability Report July 2018-June 2019 CEO message FY19 highlights About us Our approach Environment Social Governance TCFD Performance data Ten Principles of the UNGC GRI index Assurance statement Social Our workforce continued Employee breakdown by region and gender: Metric boundary: Employee breakdown reported in terms of number Includes only full–time and part–time permanent of employees by gender within each contract type. and fixed–term contract employees. Regions consist of each state in which Charter Hall operates: –– New South Wales –– Queensland –– South Australia –– Victoria –– Western Australia FY17 FY18 FY19 Prefer not Prefer not Prefer not Breakdown by region and gender Employees Male Female to say Employees Male Female to say Employees Male Female to say NSW 324 156 167 1 363 173 189 1 410 193 216 1 QLD 35 14 21 0 37 15 22 0 38 14 24 0 SA 9 2 7 0 8 1 7 0 9 2 7 0 VIC 36 17 19 0 34 14 20 0 54 23 31 0 WA 30 16 14 0 32 13 19 0 35 15 20 0 Total 434 205 228 1 474 216 257 1 546 247 298 1 FY17 FY18 FY19 Prefer not Prefer not Prefer not Breakdown by age Employees Male Female to say Employees Male Female to say Employees Male Female to say Under 30 75 26 48 1 78 30 48 1 111 43 68 0 30-50 312 149 163 0 341 152 188 0 373 165 207 1 50+ years 47 30 17 0 55 34 21 0 62 39 23 0 Total 434 205 228 1 474 216 257 1 546 247 298 1 74 Charter Hall Group Sustainability Report July 2018-June 2019 CEO message FY19 highlights About us Our approach Environment Social Governance TCFD Performance data Ten Principles of the UNGC GRI index Assurance statement Social Our workforce continued FY17 FY18 FY19 Employee changes by gender New hires Termination New hires Termination New hires Termination Male 48 47 41 33 70 39 Female 87 60 67 53 108 68 Prefer not to say 1 0 0 0 0 0 Total 136 107 108 86 178 107 FY17 FY18 FY19 Employee changes by age New hires Termination New hires Termination New hires Termination Under 30 46 30 29 16 58 19 30-50 83 67 67 59 105 73 50+ years 7 10 12 11 14 14 Unknown 0 0 0 1 1 Total 136 107 108 86 178 107 FY17 FY18 FY19 Employee changes by region New hires Termination New hires Termination New hires Termination NSW 108 85 90 67 130 80 QLD 8 9 7 4 8 10 SA 1 2 5 6 3 2 VIC 10 5 2 6 32 12 WA 9 6 4 3 5 3 Total 136 107 108 86 178 107 FY17 FY18 FY19 Turnover Number % Number % Number % Voluntary 66 16.4% 52 11.9% 67 14.2% Involuntary 22 5.5% 18 4.1% 18 3.8% Total 88 21.8% 70 16.1% 85 18.0% Calculated to only include permanent employees, therefore does not match employee changes for termination, which includes contract fixed term employees. 75 Charter Hall Group Sustainability Report July 2018-June 2019 Ten Principles of the UNGC Charter Hall offices, 1 Martin Place, Sydney NSW 76 Charter Hall Group Sustainability Report July 2018-June 2019 CEO message FY19 highlights About us Our approach Environment Social Governance TCFD Performance data Ten Principles of the UNGC GRI index Assurance statement Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact Charter Hall Group became a signatory in March 2019 and is committed to the UN Global Compact corporate responsibility initiative and its principles in the areas of human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. This report is our inaugural communication on progress. See pages referenced for more detail. Principles Actions Page Reference Human Rights Principle 1 We have taken a proactive approach to determining the scope of our responsibility with respect to human rights. The Charter Hall 34 – 38 Human Rights Policy, Employee Code of Conduct and Supplier Code of Conduct all outline Group-wide responsibilities for upholding Protection of Human human rights in our operations and supply chains, and set our expectations for employees and suppliers. Rights In FY19, we developed a human rights framework – including a human rights policy, a supplier code of conduct and a modern slavery working group – to uncover and eliminate potential modern slavery risks throughout our operations and supply chains. We also joined industry colleagues on the Property Council of Australia’s Sustainability Roundtable to develop a supplier pre-qualification platform, and played a central role in elevating the prominence and efficacy of the Cleaning Accountability Framework pilot building certification scheme. Principle 2 In the course of developing a human rights policy, a supplier code of conduct and a modern slavery working group over FY18 and 34 – 38 FY19, no complicity in human rights abuses was identified. No Complicity in Human Rights Abuses We uphold, protect and track our human rights performance through a number of policies and initiatives (as identified in Principle 1), and actively engage on this issue with NGOs, regulators, investors, employees, suppliers, tenant customers and industry colleagues. Labour Principle 3 Freedom of association is enshrined under Australian and New Zealand law. In this context, Charter Hall respects the rights of 79, GRI Disclosure all workers to join and form a trade union of their choice in accordance with national law. There are no employees on collective 102–41 Freedom of Association bargaining agreements at Charter Hall. and Collective Bargaining Principle 4 Our human rights framework explicitly precludes the use of forced labour. A supplier risk assessment was undertaken in FY19 and no 34 – 38 instances of forced and compulsory labour were identified. We continue to work with our industry partners and suppliers to address Elimination of Forced modern slavery. and Compulsory Labour Principle 5 Our human rights framework explicitly precludes the use of child labour. A supplier risk assessment was undertaken in FY19 and no 34 – 38 instances of forced and compulsory labour were identified. We continue to work with our industry partners and suppliers to address Abolition of Child Labour modern slavery. Principle 6 Charter Hall Group Diversity and Inclusion policy was updated in June 2019. We adopt a zero-tolerance stance towards harassment 34 – 38 and discrimination in the workplace and regular training is provided on appropriate workplace behaviour. Our supplier code of Elimination of conduct also seeks to extend our approach to our supply chain. Discrimination 77 Charter Hall Group Sustainability Report July 2018-June 2019 CEO message FY19 highlights About us Our approach Environment Social Governance TCFD Performance data Ten Principles of the UNGC GRI index Assurance statement Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact (continued) Principles Actions Page Reference Environment Principle 7 We undertook a number of initiatives this year that reflected our systematic approach to managing environmental risk. This included 14 – 23, 40 – 41 quarterly meetings of the Audit Risk and Compliance Committee to oversee environmental risk management, conducting materiality Precautionary Approach assessment with wide-ranging stakeholder engagement, commencing a climate change risk analysis for our childcare portfolio, and undertaking a review of the TCFD framework. Principle 8 In FY19, Charter Hall promoted environmental responsibility through developing a range of new Environmental, Social and 14 – 23, 40 – 41 Governance targets and indicators (e.g. setting a target of 100% reduction in Direct (Scope 1 and 2) emissions by 2030, by updating Environmental our company values to reflect our commitment to long-term sustainable value creation, by adopting voluntary charters and practice Responsibility through sector initiatives (e.g. NABERS, Green Star and WELL), and by tracking and communicating progress on incorporating sustainability principles into business practices (e.g. SDGs, TCFD). Principle 9 We are committed to the implementation of environmentally sound technologies, and in FY19, increased our renewable energy 20, 22, 31 footprint from 2.5MW, in 2018, to 5.2MW of solar PV across the portfolio, generating 7,598MWh of electricity per annum in green Environmentally Friendly energy, or enough to power 507 homes. Stage 1 of our solar rollout program for retail is also underway with the installation of Technologies 13 MW generation capacity across 15 shopping centres, producing 18 GWh of electricity per annum, equivalent to powering 1,200 homes. Our introduction of the Comfy app has seen a cumulative energy saving of 14% across four buildings since 2018, equating to 250 tonnes of CO2e. Comfy allows individuals to personalise the temperature of their wok zone and provides us with insights to understand preferences and fine tune building operations to suit. Comfy use will grow to 26 assets by the end of 2019. Anti-Corruption Principle 10 The Anti-Bribery, Fraud and Corruption Risk Management Policy governs our approach to corruption, as laid out in the Charter Hall 34 – 38 Code of Conduct. All employees receive annual training in the Code of Conduct, and we periodically assess our exposure to bribery, Work against Corruption fraud and corruption risk, including through annual operating risk reviews, internal and external audit planning and reporting, credit card expenditure monitoring, due diligence via on-boarding and the ongoing screening of employees and third parties, and an annual review of our approach by our Risk and Compliance function. See our Corporate Governance pages for more on policies and practices – charterhall.com.au/About-Us/corporate-governance. 78 Charter Hall Group Sustainability Report July 2018-June 2019 GRI index 79 Charter Hall Group Sustainability Report July 2018-June 2019 CEO message FY19 highlights About us Our approach Environment Social Governance TCFD Performance data Ten Principles of the UNGC GRI index Assurance statement GRI 101: Foundation 2016 Effective from 1 July 2018 Section GRI Standard Disclosure Location Notes About Charter Hall GRI 102: General Disclosures Organisation profile 102-1 Name of the organization 2 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 10, 11 102-3 Location of headquarters 23 102-4 Location of operations 12 102-5 Ownership and legal form 10, 11 102-6 Markets served 11, 12 102-7 Scale of the organization 10, 11 102-8 Information on employees 72 and other workers 102-9 Supply chain 35 102-10 Significant changes to the organization 35 and its supply chain 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 14, 78 102-12 External initiatives 34 102-13 Membership of associations 34 Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 4-5 CEO message 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 7, 16, 41 Our Approach Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, 10, 14, 34, 35, 37 and norms of behaviour Governance 102-18 Governance structure 14 Stakeholder engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 7 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 77 Zero employees on collective bargaining agreements. 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 15 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 15 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 15, 16 Key topics and concerns raised are reflected in our material topics. 80 Charter Hall Group Sustainability Report July 2018-June 2019 CEO message FY19 highlights About us Our approach Environment Social Governance TCFD Performance data Ten Principles of the UNGC GRI index Assurance statement GRI 101: Foundation 2016 (continued) Effective from 1 July 2018 Section GRI Standard Disclosure Location Notes About Charter Hall Reporting practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated 10, 11 financial statements 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 15, 16 102-47 List of material topics 16 102-48 Restatements of information See note Any restatements are indicated with footnotes on respective pages. 102-49 Changes in reporting 2 102-50 Reporting period 2 102-51 Date of most recent report See note 2018 102-52 Reporting cycle See note Annual. 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 2 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the 2 GRI Standards 102-55 GRI content index 79-83 102-56 External assurance 85-86 Environment GRI 103: Management approach Material Topic 1: Climate resilience 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 18 103-2 The management approach and its components 19-21 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 19-21 GRI 300: Environmental GRI 302 Energy 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 56 61 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization 56 61 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 56 61 GRI 303 Water 303-5 Water consumption 65-66 GRI 305 Emissions 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 62-64 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 62-64 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 62-64 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 62-64 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 68 81 Charter Hall Group Sustainability Report July 2018-June 2019 CEO message FY19 highlights About us Our approach Environment Social Governance TCFD Performance data Ten Principles of the UNGC GRI index Assurance statement GRI 101: Foundation 2016 (continued) Effective from 1 July 2018 Section GRI Standard Disclosure Location Notes GRI 306 Waste 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 68 Social Material Topic 2: Engagement 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 25 and inclusion 103-2 The management approach and its components 26-30 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 26-30 GRI 200: Economic GRI 201 Economic performance 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 7, 10-12 GRI 400: Social GRI 401 Employment 401-3 Parental leave 68 GRI 403 Occupational health 403-409 Work-related injuries 73 While we disclose our safety performance and safety by type, we do not currently breakdown the injury rates by gender. We will work to address these omissions in forthcoming periods in line with our focus on health and safety systems and reporting. Our safety disclosures only cover workrelated incidents and hours worked incurred by our employees (full-time and part-time permanent employees and fixed-term contracts employees). It excluded workrelated incidents and hours worked by our contractors due to system limitations. GRI 404 Training and Education 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance 71 and career development reviews Environmental impacts on wellbeing Own disclosure – WELL building accreditations 29 Employee satisfaction Own disclosure – Employee engagement 8 GRI 405 Diversity and Equal 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 27, 68, 72-75 Board composition by gender disclosure opportunity on p.68 does not include a breakdown by age group or other diversity indicators. This information is disclosed for our broader workforce disclosures on p.72. 405-2 Ration of basic salary and remuneration of women 69 to men 82 Charter Hall Group Sustainability Report July 2018-June 2019 CEO message FY19 highlights About us Our approach Environment Social Governance TCFD Performance data Ten Principles of the UNGC GRI index Assurance statement GRI 101: Foundation 2016 (continued) Effective from 1 July 2018 Section GRI Standard Disclosure Location Notes Community investment Own disclosure – Community investment 26 Pledge 1% Governance Material Topic 3: Responsible 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 30 34 business 103-2 The management approach and its components 31, 32 35, 36 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 31 ,32 35, 36 GRI 200: Economic GRI 201 Economic performance 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities 15, 19, 40, 41 due to climate change GRI 400: Social GRI 412 Human rights assessment 412-1 Operations that have been subject to human rights 35, 38 reviews or impact assessments Customer wellbeing Own disclosure – Customer experience 29 GRI 418 Customer privacy 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of 36 No complaints customer privacy and losses of customer data 83 Charter Hall Group Sustainability Report July 2018-June 2019 Assurance statement Steven Bennett and Charisse Nortje taken in 1 Martin Place, Sydney 84 Charter Hall Group Sustainability Report July 2018-June 2019 CEO message FY19 highlights About us Our approach Environment Social Governance TCFD Performance data Ten Principles of the UNGC GRI index Assurance statement Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu ABN 74 490 121 060 Grosvenor Place 225 George Street Sydney NSW 2000 PO Box N250 Grosvenor Place Sydney NSW 1220 Australia • Designing, establishing and maintaining internal controls to ensure that the Subject Matter is properly Tel: +61 8 9365 7000 prepared and presented in accordance with the Reporting Criteria. Fax: +61 2 9322 7001 www.deloitte.com.au Assurance Practitioner’s Independence and Quality Control We have complied with the independence and other relevant ethical requirements relating to assurance engagements, which are founded on fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, professional competence Independent Assurance Practitioner’s Limited Assurance Report on the 2019 Sustainability Report and due care, confidentiality and professional behavior. to the Directors of Charter Hall Limited The firm applies Auditing Standard ASQC 1 Quality Control for Firms that Perform Audits and Reviews of We have undertaken a limited assurance engagement relating to the selected Sustainability Performance Financial Reports and Other Financial Information, Other Assurance Engagements and Related Services Indicators detailed below (the ‘Subject Matter’) presented in the Charter Hall Sustainability Report for the year Engagements, and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality control including documented ended 30 June 2019 (‘2019 Sustainability Report’). policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. Subject Matter and Reporting Criteria Assurance Practitioner’s Responsibility The Subject Matter and Reporting Criteria for our limited assurance engagement for the year ended 30 June 2019 is as follows: Our responsibility is to express a limited assurance conclusion on the Subject Matter based on the procedures we have performed and the evidence we have obtained. Subject Matter Reporting Criteria We conducted our limited assurance engagement in accordance with Australian Standard on Assurance Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 Greenhouse Gas emissions (tCO2e) National Greenhouse and Energy Engagements ASAE 3000 Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Reporting Act 2007, National Greenhouse Information (‘ASAE 3000’) issued by the Australian Auditing and Assurance Standards Board in order to express Total energy consumption (GJ) and Energy Reporting (Measurement) a conclusion whether, based on the procedures performed and the evidence obtained, anything has come to our Determination 2008 and related guidance, attention that causes us to believe that the Subject Matter has not been reported, in all material respects, in Total energy production (kWh) collectively referred as ‘NGER legislation’ accordance with the Reporting Criteria. That standard requires that we plan and perform this engagement to Global Reporting Initiative’s Standard obtain limited assurance about whether the Subject Matter is free from material misstatement. Water consumption (kL) (‘GRI Standard’) 303-5 2018 A limited assurance engagement in accordance with ASAE 3000 involves identifying areas where a material Total Recordable Injury Frequency Rate and Lost Time Injury GRI Standard 403-2 2016 misstatement of the Subject Matter information is likely to arise, addressing the areas identified and Frequency Rate considering the process used to prepare the Subject Matter. A limited assurance engagement is substantially Board composition by gender GRI Standard 405-1 2016 less in scope than a reasonable assurance engagement in relation to both the risk assessment procedures, Ratio of remuneration of women to men GRI Standard 405-2 2016 including an understanding of internal control, and the procedures performed in response to the assessed risks. Workforce breakdown by job band, age and gender GRI Standard 405-1 2016 The procedures we performed were based on our professional judgement and consisted primarily of: Percentage of women in the workforce and senior management GRI Standard 405-1 2016 • Interviewing respective Subject Matter data owners and sustainability report responsible management to understand and assess the approach for collating, calculating and reporting the respective Subject Matter Employee breakdown by contract type and gender GRI Standard 102-8 across the reporting period ended 30 June 2019 • Undertaking a sample of detailed walkthroughs of key systems and processes used / relied upon to Percentage of employees receiving regular (annual) compile the Subject Matter for the 2019 Charter Hall Sustainability Report performance and career development reviews, by gender and GRI Standard 404-3 2016 • Assessing the supporting process documentation developed to support the collation, calculation and employee category reporting process in accordance with the GRI Standards and the NGER Legislation as applicable • Completing analytical reviews over material data streams to identify any material anomalies / gaps for the Responsibilities of Management Subject Matter and investigate further where required • Agreeing overall data sets for the Subject Matter to the final data contained in the 2019 Charter Hall Management of Charter Hall is responsible for: Sustainability Report. • Ensuring that the Subject Matter is properly prepared and presented in accordance with the Reporting Criteria The procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement vary in nature and timing from, and are less in • Confirming the measurement or evaluation of the underlying subject matter against the applicable criteria, extent than for, a reasonable assurance engagement. including that all relevant matters are reflected in the subject matter information Consequently, the level of assurance obtained in a limited assurance engagement is substantially lower than Deloitte refers to one or more of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited (“DTTL”), its global network of member firms, and their related entities. DTTL (also referred to as the assurance that would have been obtained had we performed a reasonable assurance engagement. “Deloitte Global”) and each of its member firms and their affiliated entities are legally separate and independent entities. DTTL does not provide services to clients. Please see www.deloitte.com/about to learn more. Accordingly, we do not express an opinion providing reasonable assurance about whether the Subject Matter has been reported, in all material respects, in accordance with the Reporting Criteria. Deloitte is a leading global provider of audit and assurance, consulting, financial advisory, risk advisory, tax and related services. Our network of member firms in more than 150 countries and territories serves four out of five Fortune Global 500®companies. Learn how Deloitte’s approximately 286,000 people make an impact that matters at www.deloitte.com. Liability limited by a scheme approved under Professional Standards Legislation. Member of Deloitte Asia Pacific Limited and the Deloitte Network. © 2019 Deloitte Risk Advisory. Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu 85 Charter Hall Group Sustainability Report July 2018-June 2019 CEO message FY19 highlights About us Our approach Environment Social Governance TCFD Performance data Ten Principles of the UNGC GRI index Assurance statement Inherent Limitations There are inherent limitations in performing an assurance engagement for example, assurance engagements are based on selective testing of the information being examined – and it is possible that fraud, error or noncompliance may occur and not be detected. An assurance engagement is not designed to detect all misstatements, as an assurance engagement is not performed continuously throughout the year that is the subject of the engagement and the procedures performed on a test basis. The conclusion expressed in this report has been formed on the above basis. Additionally, non-financial data may be subject to more inherent limitations than financial data, given both its nature and the methods used for determining, calculating and sampling or estimating such data. The procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement vary in nature from, and are narrower in scope than for, a reasonable assurance engagement. As a result, the level of assurance obtained in a limited assurance engagement is substantially lower than that in a reasonable assurance engagement. Accordingly, we do not express a reasonable assurance opinion about whether the agreed selection of Performance Indicators disclosed in the 2019 Charter Hall Sustainability Report have been reported, in all material respects, in accordance with the GRI Standards and the NGER Legislation. Limitations of Use This report has been prepared for use by Directors of Charter Hall for the purpose of assessing the reasonableness of the data presented in the 2019 Charter Hall Sustainability Report for the agreed Subject Matter. We disclaim any assumption of responsibility for any reliance on this report to any person other than the Directors of Charter Hall, or for any purpose other than that for which it was prepared. Conclusion Based on the procedures performed and the evidence obtained, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the Subject Matter have not been reported, in all material respects, in accordance with the Reporting Criteria in the GRI Standards and the NGER Legislation. DELOITTE TOUCHE TOHMATSU Paul Dobson Partner Sydney, Australia 26 September 2019 86 Charter Hall Group Sustainability Report July 2018-June 2019 charterhall.com.au/ sustainability Charter Hall Group
