СОДЕРЖАНИЕ 1 CONTENT Separate waste collection …………… ..61 Environmental diplomacy 1. ADDRESS OF THE DIRECTOR …. 3 Environmental education ........... .......... 64 schoolchildren …………………..…… .90 2. ABOUT THE COMPANY ………… 5 Classes in schools ………………….… 64 Interregional Ecological Forum “For Order Field of activity .................................. ... 5 Purity Day Election …………………… 67 on the Planet!” ... .. ………………….... 90 Production efficiency. ....... .................... 5 Classes in the format of events ... ... ....... 67 Ecological and patriotic expedition to the Technology and innovation ... ............... 5 Children's Ecological Clearance Camp El Republic of Belarus ………………… ..95 Development of relations with partners and Greco .......... …………………………....68 Cooperation with the Union promotion of principles of social Garbage quiz at the International Volunteers of Russia ………………… .96 responsibility ....... .... ................... ....... 10 Environmental Meeting .......................... 72 Cleaning at military graves ... ............... 96 Company awards, Ecoviz quiz on the civil forum ……….. .73 Combining ecology with patriotic employee achievements ..... .................. 31 Ecoviz quiz at the Mir and Clear education ....... ....................................... 97 3. HUMAN RIGHTS ... .. .................... 44 exhibition-fair .........................................74 Co-organizers of a 4. WORKING CONDITIONS …….….45 The event dedicated to World Cleanliness non-profit organization ……………… ..98 Employees of the company ………….. 46 Day ………………………………….… 75 Industrial environmental control …..… 103 Personnel policy ................................... 46 International environmental gathering Control of air pollution ........................ 103 Remuneration ………………………... 47 “Give the planet life!” …………… …....78 Contamination of water bodies ……… 105 Social policy ……………………...…. .48 Talk about environmental Soil pollution control ........................... 107 Employee training .................. ............. 49 education live …………………….…… 82 Noise pollution control ........................ 108 Career guidance for students .. …….… 50 Forest protection and reforestation .. .... .83 Radiation monitoring pollution ............ 109 Charity .................................................. 56 Ecological and patriotic route ................ 84 6. ANTI-CORRUPTION ........... ......... 110 5. ENVIRONMENTAL Assistance in the implementation of the 7. CONCLUSION ... .. ……………... ..114 PROTECTION .............................. ...... 61 presidential grant ……. ………………. 87 Environmental policy ……………… ... 61 2 1.REQUEST OF THE DIRECTOR Dear friends, colleagues, like-minded people! As you know, today mankind is experiencing an era of environmental crisis caused by the violation of harmonious human relations with nature. This is manifested in the consumer and wasteful use of natural resources, which leads to the depletion, pollution and destruction of animate and inanimate nature. To solve this problem, the transition of modern society to the path of sustainable development is necessary. And the world community has entered upon it, having designated and accepted for itself the goals of sustainable development. The company Remmontazh fully supports the sustainable development strategy and actively implements its main components: environmental, social, economic and cultural. The openness of our company allows us to ensure that our stakeholders are aware of the results of their activities in the field of sustainable development. To this end, we implement the practice of annual disclosure of non-financial corporate reporting. Our published reports on sustainable development are addressed, first of all, to our employees, partners, founders, investors, representatives of various government bodies, environmental and public organizations, scientific and educational institutions, as well as to the general public, both Russian and international. I am pleased to present to you a report on the achievements of Remmontazh LLC in the field of sustainable development for 2019. I would like to note that this is our fifth anniversary report. He continues the practice of annual disclosure of our company’s non-financial corporate reporting, in which we describe our work in introducing the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily activities. From the information presented it is clear that we are not reducing the level of responsibility we have taken in the field of sustainable development, because we sincerely believe in the correctness of our position: business should work not only to achieve an economic result, but also to bring tangible benefits to society generally. Yours faithfully, Director of Remmontazh LLC Radik Zakiryanov. 3 A drawing of a participant in a children's competition held with the support of Remmontazh LLC. 4 2. ABOUT THE COMPANY introduce a separate waste collection system using its own unique technology in educational institutions and continues to implement Field of activity it, carrying out educational work among schoolchildren and kindergarten children in the region on the importance of the Remmontazh LLC is a licensed company that provides Republican Social Network . services in the field of waste management of hazard class IV. In accordance with the license issued by the Federal Service for the In 2019, the organization focused its work on the Supervision of Natural Resources, Remmontazh LLC carries out following issues of sustainable development: activities related to the collection, transportation, processing, improving management efficiency; disposal, disposal, disposal of waste. In 2019, the service area of improving the quality of innovative, scientific and Remmontazh LLC increased. The company began to serve 5 technical activities of the company; districts of the Kaluga region. These are Kirovsky, Kuibyshevsky, -technological and technical development of the company; Lyudinovsky, Baryatinsky, Spas-Demensky. The company improving the development efficiency of the company in “Remmontazh” LLC has established close cooperation with all the field of information technology; municipalities to resolve issues and problems encountered in the ensuring employment of the population; field of waste management. ensuring decent wages to employees; occupational Safety and Health; In its work, Remmontazh LLC adheres to the values of improving working conditions for workers; social responsibility and sustainable development in the territory motivation of employees to improve competencies and of its presence. This is manifested in the fact that the organization develop human resources; actively participates in the life and development of communities environmental protection; in the territory of its presence, and supports volunteer and charity anti-corruption; projects. On the initiative, with the support and partnership of ensuring transparency of activities; LLC Remmontazh, a number of environmental events, round -constructive interaction with partners. tables, seminars and other events aimed at environmental Remmontazh LLC has made every effort to achieve education and patriotic education of both the adult population and positive results in all identified areas of activity. youth were held in Kaluga Region and beyond in 2019 . Over the years, Remmontazh LLC has remained the only company in the Kaluga region that has managed to implement a project to 5 Production efficiency Technology and Innovation The staff of Remmontazh LLC is In 2019, Remmontazh LLC was the only company in the Kaluga Region that concluded constantly working on how to increase a state contract with the Kaluga Regional Environmental Operator State Enterprise. In the production efficiency. service area of the company were 5 districts of the Kaluga region. In 2019, for the high-quality Based on the analysis of the main provision of services in the served territory, the company acquired 3 units of special indicators of the company, the following equipment. conclusions can be drawn. The company Remmontazh LLC works efficiently In 2019, the efforts of employees saw significant changes at the MSW landfill. Several and is cost-effective. Revenue from the work areas appeared here. They include sites for the temporary storage of bulky waste, for sale of works and services in 2019 sorting solid municipal waste, and for placing bales of sorted and compacted MSW. For increased by 81% (in 2018 by 39%). shredding bulky waste, Remmontazh acquired an industrial shredder, installed a balance to account for imported waste, and launched a sorting line to separate the waste into fractions. At the MSW landfill, a sink for garbage trucks is under construction and the construction of an automated MSW sorting station continues. 6 7 In connection with changes in the legislation of the Russian Federation and to fulfill the tasks set by the state in the field of Significantly improved the company's work in connection waste management, Remmontazh LLC implemented an intelligent with the emergence of a competent system administrator. Thanks waste management system. The online system keeps track of the to the new specialist, the development efficiency of the company requests of all industry participants and provides end-to-end in the field of information technology application has increased. automation of the process, from the moment the waste is The system administrator upgraded the official website of the generated to its processing or disposal at the landfill. Control over company, which contributed to its better content and ease of use. the functioning of the intelligent system is carried out by company specialists. At Remmontazh LLC, these are specially trained It became possible to increase the efficiency of personnel dispatchers. In 2019, the Kaluga Regional Environmental management and the life of the company thanks to the Operator took over the company's experience in implementing an introduction of the position of deputy director. intelligent waste management system, extending it to the entire region. Remmontazh LLC set itself the task of solving the problem of reducing the amount of organic matter stored at the MSW landfill. In 2019, Remmontazh LLC, in partnership with scientists from Russian institutes and specialists from research and production companies, began developing a project on the use of bioremediation, an innovative method of neutralizing organic waste. It is based on the use of the potential of biological objects, including bacteria, to process and destroy organics. This method will speed up the decomposition of organic waste and extend the life of the MSW landfill. 8 9 Development of relations with partners and promotion of the principles of social responsibility of business In 2019, the organization LLC Remmontazh actively developed relations with its partners. They were built on the principles of mutual understanding and respect for interests. The company also assisted in the development of business practices through a system of partnerships with business, state and departmental structures, and professional communities. Remmontazh LLC operates in the interests of the Russian state. The company is a bona fide taxpayer. In 2019, the amount of tax payments paid to budgets of all levels amounted to 9 million 320 thousand rubles. The company is present in 5 municipalities of the Kaluga Region, where it implements not only production and investment programs of its activities, but also, in collaboration with local authorities, implements projects in the field of environmental education, patriotic education, and environmental protection. The company conducts an open and constructive dialogue with authorities on improving the quality of services to the public in the field of waste management, improving legislation in the field of waste management, developing a regulatory framework, promoting the concept of sustainable development of the industry and territory. A drawing of a participant in a children's competition held with the support of Remmontazh LLC. 10 As part of its interaction with the authorities, Remmontazh LLC links closely with the Ministry of Construction and Housing and Communal Services of the Kaluga Region, the Ministry of Economic Development, the Ministry of Competition Policy, the Ministry of Natural Resources and Ecology. Collaborating with the Ministry of Natural Resources, Remmontazh LLC provides support in the implementation of environmental education activities for the younger generation and environmental activities. Together with the Ministry of Construction, work is underway on reform in the field of waste management and on the implementation of separate waste collection. The company's priority in the field of sustainable development is an open and honest partnership with suppliers and contractors. When choosing its suppliers and contractors, the company is guided by the following principles: ▪ informational transparency of procurement activities; ▪ ensuring competitiveness; ▪ compliance with current Russian legislation; ▪ targeted and cost-effective spending of funds for the purchase of goods and services. The above principles are established by the current legislation of the Russian Federation and are implemented through a single Regulation for the company on the procurement of goods, works, services. All competitive procedures of the company are held on electronic trading floors. A drawing of a participant in a children's competition held with the support of Remmontazh LLC. 11 A drawing of a participant in a children's competition held with the support of Remmontazh LLC. The company cooperates with kindergartens and schools that participate in the implementation of the project for the implementation of separate waste collection, as well as with higher educational institutions of the Kaluga region and other regions of the country. So, LLC Remmontazh have close partnerships with Kaluga State University. K.E. Tsiolkovsky. The goal is vocational guidance of school students to natural science professions, including those related to ecology. In addition, Remmontazh LLC and KSU conduct joint environmental and educational events with the involvement of university teachers and student volunteers. The company Remmontazh also collaborates with the Competence Center Environmental Technologies and Systems of Vyatka State University. The goal is the implementation of an innovative project on bioremediation of the solid waste landfill body to increase its capacity. The scientific and production association “Crismas-Center” also participates in the project. 12 On February 21, 2019, employees of Remmontazh LLC and their partners from ANO EPI took part in a public discussion of the law enforcement practice of the Office of Rosprirodnadzor in the Kaluga Region based on the results of state environmental supervision for 2018. The main goal of the meeting is to increase the legal literacy of business entities that have a negative impact on the environment, and the prevention of violations of environmental laws. On March 4, 2019, Remmontazh LLC and their partners from the Autonomous non-profit organization Ecological and Patriotic Initiative took part in an expanded meeting of the board of the Ministry of Natural Resources and Ecology of the Kaluga Region. The event took place in Kaluga in the House of the regional government. Here, in the presence of representatives of authorities at various levels, the business community and the public, the results of the activities of the “green” department for 2018 were summed up and tasks for the near future were outlined. 13 Before the meeting, an exhibition of the achievements of enterprises and organizations involved in the field of forestry, utilization of solid municipal and industrial wastes, environmental education and ecotourism was held. The exposition was carefully examined by the Governor of the Kaluga Region Anatoly Artamonov together with the Regional Minister of Natural Resources and Ecology Varvara Antokhina. Getting acquainted with the information platform of LLC Remmontazh and ANO EPI, they learned about the implementation of interesting projects in the region aimed at introducing the younger generation to environmental activities and fostering love for the motherland in children and adolescents. In this work, LLC Remmontazh and ANO EPI collaborate with the All-Russian public associations Union of Volunteers of Russia and Green Russia. Noting the great variety of events held by Remmontazh LLC and ANO EPI, the head of the green department V. Antokhina paid special attention to the organization of the Give the Planet Life international environmental gathering with the participation of guests from neighboring regions of Russia and the Republic of Belarus. “The eco-gathering has become traditional for the Kaluga region and serves young people who are concerned about environmental protection as a platform for acquiring new knowledge and for sharing experiences,” Varvara Anatolyevna emphasized. The activities of partners represented by Remmontazh LLC and ANO EPI made a favorable impression on the governor. A. Artamonov thanked EcoPatriotov for their contribution to the development of environmental volunteering, noting that they are doing a good and necessary thing for society. 14 On March 18, 2019, in the Public Chamber of the Russian Federation, the results of the National Children and Youth Poetry and Songwriting Competition “Talent Warming with Good” were summed up, aimed at developing the creative abilities of children faced with difficult life circumstances. The event was attended by employees of LLC Remmontazh and partners of the company from ANO EPI, who supported this project in the Kaluga Region. Their forces held the regional stage of the competition. Thanks to the activity of the organizers of the regional stage of the competition, the contribution of Kaluga residents to the competition was the most significant. 26 participants took part in the competition, 46 works entered the competition. 17 people became laureates and received cash prizes from the organizers. At the final event, the delegation of Kaluga shared their experience in holding a competition in the region. March 21, 2019 at the Federation Council of the Federal Assembly of the Russian Federation, a meeting was held with activists of the country engaged in environmental education of the population and, above all, the younger generation. The event was timed to summarize the results of the Year of the Volunteer held in 2018. Representatives of 42 constituent entities of the Russian Federation gathered in the conference room of the “chamber of regions”. 15 Among the invited to the Federation Council was a delegation of the Kaluga region. It included a representative of the Ministry of Natural Resources and Ecology of the Kaluga Region Dmitry Orlov, customer service specialist and corporate volunteer from Remmontazh LLC Oksana Barkova, director of the Autonomous non-profit organization Ecological and Patriotic Initiative Mikhail Chuprinin. This composition of delegates was not accidental. The green department associates close cooperation with caring ecovolunteers represented by activists of Remmontazh LLC and ANO EPI. Together they implement many interesting projects aimed at the formation of the region’s inhabitants, starting in childhood, with an ecological worldview. Three speakers made speeches from the subjects of the Russian Federation. The environmental direction of the Kaluga regional branch of the Union of Russian Volunteers was presented by an employee of Remmontazh LLC and corporate volunteer Oksana Barkova. In her report, Oksana Bogdanovna noted the contribution of volunteer activists to the implementation of creative projects that received support from the Presidential Grants Fund in 2017 and 2018, in conducting international events, such as Give the Planet Life environmental gathering, in promoting the implementation of a separate waste collection system as well as in reforestation. 16 April 4, 2019 in Kaluga, the I Interregional Scientific and Practical Conference Environmental Aspects of Sustainable Development of the Region and the Problem of Transformation into a New Quality of Economic Growth was held. It was organized by the Ministry of Natural Resources and Ecology of the Kaluga Region together with the Kaluga branch of the Russian Presidential Academy of National Economy and Public Administration (RANEPA). The event was attended by representatives of government and the business community, teachers and university students, activists of volunteer movements and public organizations, experts and experts in the field of environmental protection in Moscow, Bryansk, Oryol and Kaluga regions. Among the active participants in the conference were employees of Remmontazh LLC and their partners from ANO EPI. 17 During the meeting, participants made presentations. The threads of “green technologies”, waste recycling, and environmental awareness passed through all the messages. One of the speakers was Mikhail Chuprinin, director of the Autonomous non-profit organization Environmental and Patriotic Initiative. Mikhail Vladimirovich spoke about the participation of the non-profit sector in the formation of the ecological culture of schoolchildren on the example of the implementation of projects that received support from the Presidential Grants Fund. Using grant funds, ANO EPI, with the support of OOO Remmontazh, held creative contests for readers, drawings, and crafts among students in schools in the Kaluga Region. They covered more than 1600 children from various municipalities of the region. It is worth noting that the highlight of Mikhail Chuprinin's speech was the photo presentation. On the photo slides, the conference participants saw the emotional intensity of the reader’s competition in the regions and how many positive emotions the winners of the competition who visited the Mu Mu garbage museum brought an unusual master class led by the famous puppet theater artist Nikolai Nikolayevich Komov. Having completed the photo show, as a sign of gratitude for the support of all the project undertakings of ANO “EPI” and OOO “Remmontazh” Mikhail Vladimirovich presented a memorial gift to the Ministry of Natural Resources and Ecology of the Kaluga Region. He presented the green department with the work of the winner of the drawing contest in the younger age category, Alexandra Zhemerova. A young artist from school No. 4 of the city of Maloyaroslavets painted an eco-product built and opened in our region in 2016. The author has decorated the drawn structure, which in reality is intended for the safe passage of animals through the highway, with a banner with the inscription: I love nature. 18 After a panel discussion, the work of the conference continued in three visiting sections. Venues were organized at enterprises where advanced green technologies are actively being introduced. Representatives of Remmontazh LLC and ANO EPI took part in an on-site meeting of the LEED Green Building Standard section at the L'Oreal factory. The story about visiting this enterprise has become a good help for partners in environmental education events that they conduct in schools in the Kaluga region. ” 19 On April 3, 2019, a meeting of the working group on environmental education and motivating the population to separate waste collection in the region was held at the Public Chamber of the Kaluga Region. The event was attended by representatives of state enterprises, the regional Ministry of Natural Resources and Ecology, the Legislative Assembly of the Kaluga Region, public and scientific organizations of the region, volunteers and school teachers. The meeting participants noted that the use of the full potential of separate waste collection is possible only through constant information and educational work. For environmental education, the efforts of the regional waste management operator, public organizations, volunteers, educational institutions, organizations involved in the collection and processing of secondary material resources should be combined. The meeting participants agreed that it is not enough to pay attention to conducting lessons in schools aimed at environmental education, but it is also worth putting this system into practice in cities and villages. The work of the working group was attended by the director of ANO “EPI”, the head of the Kaluga regional branch of the NGO “Union of Volunteers of Russia” Mikhail Chuprinin, who is an expert on the fourth and fifth convocations of Kaluga Region. Mikhail Vladimirovich emphasized the experience of volunteers in introducing a separate waste collection system using the technology of Remmontazh LLC, suggested using it in the future and not allowing a gap between education and the implementation of a separate collection system. • 20 June 5 is celebrated around the world as Environment Day, and in Russia as Ecologist Day. On the eve of Among the guests invited to the Ministry of Natural Resources, there were these festive dates, a solemn event was employees of Remmontazh LLC and representatives of the Ecological and Patriotic held at the Ministry of Natural Initiative Autonomous Non-Profit Organization. They noted that they were very pleased Resources and Ecology of the Kaluga to receive an invitation to the holiday, arranged in honor of Kaluga environmentalists, Region. Here gathered those for whom who took on a great responsibility, which is to take care of the well-being of the world the protection of nature is the work of around us. “As far as our strengths and capabilities are, but with the same love in our a lifetime, and their associates in hearts for our country and our native land, we try to help professionals in their difficult environmental protection. work,” the partners shared. 21 In September 2019, employees of Remmontazh LLC, together with partners represented by ANO EPI and Lespromtop LLC, as well as activists of the Kaluga regional branch of the Union of Volunteers of Russia, LLC Russian Officers congratulated the social and rehabilitation Center Cheryomushki . Remmontazh LLC is connected with this social institution by a social partnership, within the framework of which various environmental and patriotic events are held for the pupils of the social institution. The guests handed thanks to the staff of the institution for their joint work; for the wards here they brought several gift packages with educational games, stationery for the school, and drawing sets. Along with environmental education, Remmontazh LLC pays special attention to the patriotic education of the younger generation. Therefore, company specialists take part in patriotic events. In August 2019, employees of Remmontazh LLC, together with their partners from ANO EPI, took part in the 1st scientific and practical conference, which took place in Maloyaroslavets as part of the Interregional Orthodox Exhibition-Fair Mir and Clear, and was dedicated to the topic of youth education on An example of the heroic deed of the defenders of the Ilyinsky Frontiers. 22 Employees of Remmontazh LLC and their partners from the NGO Environmental and Patriotic Initiative took part in the fifth International Ecological Forum, which was held in Kaluga on the initiative of the regional Ministry of Natural Resources and Ecology from September 16 to 22, 2019. This large-scale event was dedicated to the current topic of environmental education. At the forum platforms covering all the municipalities of the region, issues of reasonable consumption, energy conservation, waste processing, reforestation, and an increase in the number of Red Book animals were discussed. Particular attention was paid to them for a reason. The achievement of sustainable development of territories depends on their decision. At the V International Ecological Forum, a team of partners participated in several sites. On the opening day, September 16, she participated in the conference “17 Sustainable Development Goals. Problems and Solutions ”, organized by the Kaluga branch of the Russian Presidential Academy of National Economy and Public Administration. Of particular interest was the theme announced by the organizers of the event for the specialists of Remmontazh LLC, since this company is a member of the UN Global Compact for Sustainable Development. 23 On September 17, like-minded people attended an expanded meeting of the Environmental Protection Commission “Let's keep creating the Creator,” created at the Kaluga Metropolis. The event was held in the city of Medyn. During the meeting, workers from general education and preschool institutions of the Medinsky district made reports on the importance of the formation of environmental culture in the process of spiritual and moral education. It is worth noting that many schools of this municipality cooperate with ANO EPI and Remmontazh LLC in implementing interesting environmental education projects, in particular, which won the contests for presidential grants. On September 19, a trip to the village of Baryatino took place, where there were exhibitions of school projects “Live, Spring!”, Creative master classes and a round table discussion “Ecology. Education. We . At the discussion event in the free microphone format, the director of the Ecological and Patriotic Initiative ANO Mikhail Chuprinin shared his vision of environmental education in partnership with Remmontazh LLC. Here, within the framework of the forum program, volunteers from Remmontazh LLC conducted an ecology lecture at the Baryatinsky High School, in which, thanks to Remmontazh LLC, an RSO system was introduced. The lesson was organized for 3rd grade students and was dedicated to World Cleanliness Day. Third-graders were told about the problem of environmental pollution by waste and about waste management methods, the most advanced of which is recycling, based on the involvement of useful fractions of waste (recyclables) in the new economic turnover. The schoolchildren amazed the lecturers with their vast knowledge on this topic and especially the fact that they know by definition how the environment is. Well done! At the end of the event, the children were presented with original badges, and the most active received a T-shirt as a gift.. 24 September 26, 2019 in Kaluga, the I regional civil forum was held. He passed in the regional Innovation Cultural Center. It was organized by the Ministry of Internal Politics and Mass Communications of the Kaluga Region. The event was dedicated to summarizing the fiveyear work on interaction with the non-profit sector and discussing plans for further cooperation of NGOs, government bodies, business and the media. The forum brought together the most active and motivated non-profit organizations of the Kaluga region, as well as guests from other regions of the country. Among the invited participants was the ANO Ecological and Patriotic Initiative , one of the founders of which is the director of Remmontazh LLC Radik Zakiryanov. Since 2017, ANO EPI, together with its partners represented by Remmontazh LLC, as well as such public associations as the Union of Russian Volunteers Union and Russian Officers LLC, has been implementing many different projects. First of all, they are aimed at the formation of an ecological worldview and the upbringing of patriotic feelings in the younger generation. It is worth noting that two of them became winners of the presidential grants Fund competition.. Taking part in a civil forum, Remmontazh LLC and their partners from the NGO Environmental and Patriotic Initiative shared their experience with like-minded people at the exhibition of best practices. 25 Prior to the official opening of the event, the exhibition was visited by Dmitry Denisov, First Deputy Governor of the Kaluga Region. Information platform EcoPatriotov Dmitry Alexandrovich interested in the introduction of separate waste collection, which is promoted by ANO EPI through children's creativity. “Our region has been actively involved in the reform of the sphere of MSW management, therefore, with your help, we need to strengthen environmental education among the population in this matter. Let's unite our efforts, ”Dmitry Alexandrovich emphasized and wished the activists success in their chosen path. 26 Remmontazh LLC provides support to public organizations. Among them are the Kaluga regional branch of the All-Russian public organization “Russian Union of Former Minor Prisoners of Fascist Concentration Camps”. In October 2019, company employees took part in celebrations dedicated to the 30th anniversary of the organization of former juvenile prisoners. Events were held in the city of Kaluga. A meeting was held on Victory Square. The customer service specialist, activist of the Union of Volunteers of Russia and the representative of the All-Russian public organization “Officers of Russia” Oksana Bogdanovna Barkova congratulated the RSBNU of Kaluga Region on the anniversary date. She noted the fighting spirit and solidarity of the Kaluga regional branch of the Union of Former Juvenile Prisoners, which for three decades tirelessly carries the truth about the war, and expressed gratitude to the gray-haired keepers of historical memory and assured them that the continuity of generations in the upbringing of patriotism will not be interrupted. 27 In November 2019, employees of Remmontazh LLC, together with their partners from the Autonomous Non-Profit Organization Ecological and Patriotic Initiative, became participants in the XIII International Orthodox Exhibition and Fair Mir and Clear, which was held in Kaluga with broad support from the government of the Kaluga Region.The exhibition-fair worked for a whole week, gathering from November 1 to 6 numerous residents and guests of the city of Kaluga. Its distinctive feature was the first festival Family Kaluga . It was aimed at organizing an interesting and useful family leisure.The fourth day of the festival was dedicated to good. It was held with the active participation of corporate volunteers from Remmontazh LLC and ANO EPI. They presented their experience of good deeds in the field of environmental protection, education of ecological culture and development of volunteerism. LLC “Remmontazh” and ANO “EPI” designed their site with bright information stands. They clearly talked about the ongoing environmental education and environmental activities. Among the achievements of partners, the successful implementation of creative environmental projects that received the support of the Presidential Grants Fund was especially noted. ”On November 18, 2019, a solemn event dedicated to the 10th anniversary of the Public Chamber of the Kaluga Region took place in Kaluga. It was attended by employees of Remmontazh LLC, as well as their partners from the NGO Environmental and Patriotic Initiative, who are involved in the work of the Public Chamber as experts. They congratulated the Public Chamber on its anniversary, emphasizing its significant role in ensuring the interaction of authorities and residents, including in discussing the most important problems of state, economic, social and sustainable development of the region.In November 2019, employees of Remmontazh LLC, together with their partners from the Autonomous Non-Profit Organization Ecological and Patriotic Initiative, became participants in the XIII International Orthodox Exhibition and Fair Mir and Clear, which was held in Kaluga with broad support from the government of the Kaluga Region.The exhibition-fair worked for a whole week, gathering from November 1 to 6 numerous residents and guests of the city of Kaluga. Its distinctive feature was the first festival Family Kaluga . It was aimed at organizing an interesting and useful family leisure.The fourth day of the festival was dedicated to good. It was held with the active participation of corporate volunteers from Remmontazh LLC and ANO EPI. They presented their experience of good deeds in the field of environmental protection, education of ecological culture and development of volunteerism. LLC “Remmontazh” and ANO “EPI” designed their site with bright information stands. They clearly talked about the ongoing environmental education and environmental activities. Among the achievements of partners, the successful implementation of creative environmental projects that received the support of the Presidential Grants Fund was especially noted. ”On November 18, 2019, a solemn event dedicated to the 10th anniversary of the Public Chamber of the Kaluga Region took place in Kaluga. It was attended by employees of Remmontazh LLC, as well as their partners from the NGO Environmental and Patriotic Initiative, who are involved in the work of the Public Chamber as experts. They congratulated the Public Chamber on its anniversary, emphasizing its significant role in ensuring the interaction of authorities and residents, including in discussing the most important problems of state, economic, social and sustainable development of the region. 28 On the eve of the International Volunteer Day, which is annually celebrated on December 5, employees of Remmontazh LLC, together with their partners from the Ecological and Patriotic Initiative ANO, took part in a traditional meeting of the Ministry of Natural Resources and Ecology of the Kaluga Region with activists of public associations, non-profit organizations and representatives businesses engaged in environmental and environmental education activities. During the welcome of the participants of the round table, it was emphasized that “together we do more to ensure that the Kaluga Region develops and becomes more beautiful, while preserving and increasing our natural wealth.” The participants summed up their work for 2019. Remmontazh LLC and ANO EPI presented a wide list of completed projects. It included planting a forest with schoolchildren, organizing creative competitions among schoolchildren of the region who received support from the Presidential Grants Fund, organizing ecological camps, hiking along the ecological and patriotic route, as well as trips by Kaluga nature lovers to other regions of the country and to the Republic of Belarus, where young Kaluga residents took part in educational eco-forums and expeditions. At the end of the event, Natalia Olegovna, on behalf of the Ministry of Natural Resources and Ecology of the Kaluga Region, thanked the volunteer asset for its contribution to improving the ecology of the region and the country. In gratitude, she presented the activists with copies of the regional Red Book as a gift. 29 Remmontazh LLC cooperates with the All-Russian Popular Front in the field of waste management and the implementation of a project to eliminate unauthorized landfills. In August 2019, employees of Remmontazh LLC took part in the second forum, Rubezh, Youth ONF. It took place on the territory of the Kaluga region in the Zhukovsky district. The forum was attended by 212 activists of the regional teams of “Youth Youth Front” from the age of 18 to 35 years, distinguished themselves by real deeds for the benefit of society and passed a serious competitive selection. They represented all the subjects of Russia. The purpose of the forum is the formation of a single cohesive team. To achieve it, “training, sports and team-building events” were held throughout the week. Famous government, public and political figures, media personnel shared their experience in developing leadership skills and strategic management with the participants of the Frontier. Employees of Remmontazh LLC visited Rubezh as experts, volunteers, and journalists. They saw that many different vital issues were discussed here, a variety of introductory events were being played out, fires were being extinguished, first aid training was being provided, trees were planted in nearby settlements, military burial sites were being improved, and container sites for collecting municipal solid waste were being put in order. 30 On their arrival, the guests were witnesses of a ceremony presenting the participants of the Frontier with certificates on passing an intensive 16-hour educational program for voluntary firefighters to extinguish forest fires and protect settlements. In 2019, the Institute of Commissioners for the Rights of the Russian Federation on the Rights of the Child celebrated its 10th anniversary. At the Frontier a meeting was held with the Commissioner for Children’s Rights under the President of the Russian Federation, Anna Kuznetsova. Her conversation with young people was devoted to the topic of risks in raising a happy child. 31 In 2019, the Union “Chamber of Commerce and Industry of the Kaluga Region” together with GAU KO “Business Development Agency” implemented 10 open lessons for high school students and students of educational institutions of the Kaluga region with existing entrepreneurs. The activities were carried out as part of the national project “Small and Medium-Sized Businesses and the Support of Individual Entrepreneurship Initiatives” (federal project “Promotion of Entrepreneurship”). Lesson No. 6 was held on October 28, 2019. It was called “Cleanliness is the key to success.” It was conducted by Radik Zakiryanov, an entrepreneur, director of Remmontazh LLC, founder of the Ecological and Patriotic Initiative ANO. The PROGRAM included: an introduction to the example of Remmontazh LLC with the implementation of the reform of the waste management system in the Kaluga Region as part of the Ecology national project; -conducting Garbage Quiz on the topic: Do you know everything about the separate collection of waste? acquaintance at the MSW landfill of the Remmontazh company with the operation of the sorting line and identification of the advantages of separate waste collection at the places of formation over gross waste collection. -excursion in the administrative building of the company, where the work of the intellectual system for monitoring waste transportation was presented; -communication with the head of the company LLC “Remmontazh” R.A. Zakiryanov in an informal setting, having a cup of tea. 32 September 18, 2019 in the business center Union “Chamber of Commerce and Industry of the Kaluga Region” chaired by the Deputy Minister of Construction and Housing and Utilities of the Kaluga Region Ruslan Mailov, a meeting of the section “Modern Methods and Approaches to the Treatment of Production and Consumption Wastes” was held. The event was attended by the director of Remmontazh LLC Radik Zakiryanov The meeting was dedicated to building a constructive dialogue between scientists and practitioners who are involved in the development and implementation of modern technologies for waste processing. The urgency of reforming the waste management system to maintain a favorable environmental situation was emphasized. Section participants paid great attention to improving environmental literacy of the population. The organizers of separate waste collection in the Kirov region, Remmontazh, shared their practical experience in environmental education. Remmontazh LLC, a member of the Kaluga Region Chamber of Commerce and Industry, organized a separate waste collection for the event participants during a coffee break. Participants of the event were invited to practice the separation of MSW into the following fractions: plastic / PET bottle, paper / cardboard, glass / aluminum can and household (non-recyclable) waste. The practice of the Republic of North Ossetia caused a heated discussion among the participants. 33 On November 22, 2019, a meeting of representatives of the business community of the region with the governor of the region was held at the Union of Chamber of Commerce and Industry of the Kaluga Region. The event was attended by Director of Remmontazh LLC Radik Zakiryanov. During the meeting, there was a conversation about the set of legislative measures adopted in the region to support entrepreneurship, which is aimed not only at consulting and supporting the business, but also at its training. To this end, the Business Development Agency, in conjunction with the CCI of the Kaluga Region, conducted more than 50 training events. According to the director of Remmontazh LLC Radik Zakiryanov, training business representatives, especially beginners, is of great importance. It should be implemented on a systematic basis. It is remarkable that the regional leadership is ready to support this direction. On November 18, 2019, in the Union “Chamber of Commerce and Industry of the Kaluga Region”, within the framework of the national project “Small and Medium-sized Enterprises and the Support of Individual Entrepreneurship Initiatives”, a mobile consultation center was held on the topic: “Wastes of production and consumption”. The event was attended by Director of Remmontazh LLC Radik Zakiryanov. The meeting was dedicated to environmental law. 34 On December 20, 2019, in the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of the Kaluga Region, a traditional meeting of representatives of the business community of the region with the governor of the region took place. The event was attended by Director of Remmontazh LLC Radik Zakiryanov. There was a conversation about the implementation of the project on involving youth in entrepreneurial activity. In 2019, in order to popularize entrepreneurship among youth in the region, meetings of business representatives with schoolchildren and students, various competitions, and forums were held. Both the director of Remmontazh LLC and his staff took part in these events. In total, more than four thousand people took part in the project to promote entrepreneurship. Entrepreneurs shared with the head of the region and colleagues the experience of participating in the “Ten Open Lessons” project, during which schoolchildren and students organized excursions to small businesses, communication with their owners, and the opportunity to try their hand at various industries. One of the open lessons for schoolchildren was conducted by the director of Remmontazh LLC Radik Zakiryanov. 35 Taking into account the rich knowledge, experience and practice of many years of managing the garbage collection company, the director of Remmotnazh LLC Radik Zakiryanov was invited to the expert council of the Strong Russia All-Russian Movement. He is an expert in the implementation of reforms in the field of waste management, but now at the national level. Publications with his comments appear on the official website of Strong Russia. 36 Company awards, employee achievements In 2019, the team of Remmontazh LLC company once again proved that joint efforts aimed at achieving a common goal always give a worthy result. It was precisely this determination that allowed the employees of Remmontazh LLC to become winners in the past year in production activities, in the field of environmental education, as well as in the field of corporate volunteering. The Ministry of Natural Resources and Ecology of the Kaluga Region held a competition Eco-Organization-2019 . The objectives of the competition were to popularize the ecological culture of socially responsible business and the use of modern management systems, technologies aimed at reducing the negative impact on the environment. The competition was attended by organizations of all forms of ownership, introducing environmentally friendly production and implementing projects aimed at the rational use of natural resources, the development of environmental culture and environmental education. In 2019, 25 applicants fought for the title of eco-organization. Assessing the contribution of the contestants to environmental education, the jury did not leave unnoticed the joint partnership efforts of both Remmontazh LLC and ANO EPI. According to the results of the competition, they became winners in their nominations. The award ceremony was held at one of the events of the fifth International Ecological Forum Environmental Education . 37 In 2019, the Ministry of Natural Resources and Ecology of Kaluga The region held a regional competition among journalists and media editorial staff for the best coverage of the department. Competition Objectives: the formation of the population respect for the environment, the rational use of natural resources; drawing public attention to environmental issues and environmental safety; development of environmental education system and the formation of environmental culture Competition Objectives: creation of conditions for involving the mass media of the Kaluga region in creative activities aimed at solving environmental problems; the formation of an active civic position in matters related to environmental protection; popularization of respect for nature; Oksana Bogdanovna Barkova, an employee of Remmontazh LLC, who is a freelance correspondent for the Provincial Feuilleton Foma METELKIN Network Edition and an promoting the dissemination of activist of the Kaluga regional branch of the Union of Volunteers of Russia, took 2nd place environmental knowledge and among regional journalists in the Environmental Education nomination. The winners of the information on the state of the competition were awarded on the Day of Russian Press at the annual Press Ball. environment. 38 In 2019, another achievement of Oksana Bogdanovna Barkova, an employee of Remmontazh LLC in the field of journalism, was obtaining a diploma of the 3rd degree of the Patriot of Russia All-Russian Media Contest. The competition was presented materials in the nomination Young Russia . This is a series of materials on the implementation of the ecological and patriotic route, one of the organizers of which is the Remmontazh company. . In December 2019, the jury of the Good News of Russia contest held by the Federal News Agency among regional media outlets selected ten publications claiming victory in the Society and Social Projects nomination. Oksana Bogdanovna, an employee of OOO Remmontazh, a member of the Union of Journalists of Russia, was among the nominees for the competition in this section. She raised urgent questions for the Kaluga Region about the implementation of the waste management reform in her material “Environmental Gathering“ Give the Planet Life ”: the Third International”, which takes place annually in the region with the support of Remmontazh LLC 39 In 2019, the company Remmontazh LLC took part in the International project “Ecological Culture. Peace and harmony ”, which has been implementing the V.I. Fund since 2012 Vernadsky. Project Objectives: -identification and popularization of implemented environmental projects; In 2019, the jury received 650 -information on environmental issues, applications, which is a record indicator environmental safety and the development of for the entire history of the project. The eco-culture; geography of participants has also -Restore and strengthen public health through improving the quality of the environment; significantly expanded. The 2019 -Introduction of innovative technologies in the competition was attended by field of environmental protection representatives of 73 regions of the country. The company Remmontazh presented a theatrical performance project Ecology of the mind. The topic of the presentation is environmental issues yesterday, today, tomorrow. The project was implemented with the participation of students in grades 3-11 of school No. 45 in the city of Kaluga. In Kaluga, there were three theatrical performances. The third show of the production was carried out as part of the IV International Ecological Forum “Let's Save the Planet Together”, held in Kaluga. The show was visited by the Minister of Natural Resources and Ecology of the Kaluga Region Varvara Antokhina. The production was watched by at least 1200 children and adults. According to the results of the International project “Ecological Culture. Peace and harmony theatrical production Ecology of Reason received the Silver Certificate of the V.I. Vernadsky in the nomination social initiatives aimed at the development of environmental culture. 40 On March 21, 2019, Oksana Bogdanovna Barkova, an employee of OOO Remmontazh, took part in a meeting dedicated to summing up the Year of the Volunteer, which was held at the Federation Council of the Federal Assembly of the Russian Federation. The participant spoke about the activities of corporate volunteers of the At the event, an employee of the company was awarded a Letter of company, who are activists of the Kaluga Appreciation from the Chairman of the Council of the Federation “for the work regional branch of the All-Russian public on the formation of ecological culture, the development of a careful attitude to organization Union of Volunteers of Russia nature and the rational use of natural resources”. The awarding ceremony was and projects implemented jointly with partners held by the First Vice-Speaker of the Federation Council Nikolay Fedorov. from the NGO Environmental and Patriotic Initiative. 41 In 2019, the director of Remmontazh LLC In 2019, the director of Remmontazh LLC Radik Radik Zakiryanov received a gratitude from the Zakiryanov received the gratitude of the Union of the Chamber Ministry of Economic Development of the Kaluga of Commerce of the Kaluga Region for conducting an open Region “for participating in events aimed at lesson for schoolchildren as part of the national project Small increasing the investment attractiveness of the Kaluga and Medium-Sized Enterprises and Supporting Individual Region” Entrepreneurship Initiatives 42 A drawing of a participant in a children's competition held with the support of Remmontazh LLC. 43 3. HUMAN RIGHTS Remmontazh LLC recognizes the importance of respecting and respecting fundamental human rights, including labor rights and the right to a favorable environment. Therefore, Remmontazh LLC complies with the principles of the Global Compact in the field of ensuring human rights. Principle 1: “Businesses must support the observance of the human rights proclaimed by the international community.” Principle 2: “Businesses should not be involved in human rights violations” The company Remmontazh LLC is Declaring observance of human convinced that the daily practice of rights, the company Remmontazh LLC observing human rights will be positive and The company is building interaction pays special attention to dealing with will be carried out at a high level if the with all interested parties in such a way as complaints. Complaints and requests that organization’s employees have relevant to avoid any negative impact on human relate to the sphere of labor relations knowledge in this area. Therefore, the rights. between personnel and the company are company organizes raising awareness carefully considered. In the format of among staff and other interested parties. constructive dialogue and openness, work The company declares its requirements in is underway to consider complaints from the field of observance of human rights the population living in the service area. when carrying out training briefings, including on issues of labor protection, the environment, and safety. 44 4. WORKING CONDITIONS Remmontazh LLC complies with the principles of the Global Compact in the provision of decent working conditions for employees. Principle 3: “Businesses must uphold freedom of association and recognize in practice the rights to collective bargaining” Principle 4: “Businesses must advocate the elimination of all forms of forced labor” Principle 5: “Businesses must advocate for the complete elimination of child labor” Principle 6: “Businesses must advocate discrimination in the world of work and employment” A drawing of a participant in a children's competition held with the support of Remmontazh LLC. As parties to the United Nations Global Compact and in accordance with the company's human rights policy, Remmontazh LLC does not accept slavery, the use of forced and forced labor. Remmontazh LLC has mechanisms in place to prevent forced labor or minors. In 2019, the company did not record cases of forced labor or work of minors. Guided by the principles of ensuring equal opportunities and working conditions, Remmontazh LLC hires employees, focusing solely on their professional qualities, and does not tolerate any discrimination based on race, color, gender, religion, political opinion, nationality or social origin. Remmontazh LLC creates fair and decent working conditions for all employees. In 2019, not a single case of discrimination was registered at Remmontazh LLC. 45 Company employees are the main strategic resource of The main activities of the company in the field of Remmontazh LLC. It sets a high level of competitiveness for the sustainable development: company. Remmontazh LLC strives to create all the necessary preservation and development of human capital conditions for realizing the potential and professional abilities of creation of safe working conditions employees. The personnel policy of Remmontazh LLC includes a guarantee of stable income and timely payment of decent ensuring a decent level of remuneration and social support for wages, employees, as well as their training and assistance not only in social support professional, but also in career growth. The implementation of providing opportunities for professional and career growth these tasks allows LLC “Remmontazh” to maintain a high level of creation of comfortable social and living conditions at the productivity and quality of work performed and lays the place of work foundation for future achievements of the company. training and professional development of employees HR policy The average number of employees of the company over the past 2 years has doubled and amounted to 76 in 2019. In the company’s team, as in the industry, male labor predominates, which is associated with heavy physical exertion. However, LLC “Remmontazh” creates the necessary conditions for attracting women. So, at the MSW landfill, the positions of dispatchers and sorters are occupied mainly by women. There is a woman among the workers. In 2019, a real professional revolution took place at the MSW landfill. A woman came to the position of head of the training ground, which has traditionally been occupied exclusively by men over the years. She coped with her difficult duties perfectly, becoming an example for the stronger sex in the excellent organization of work at the MSW landfill and in working with those who carry out their labor activities at the landfill. Remmontazh LLC employs employees of all age categories. The percentage of middle-aged employees predominates. However, the company has young specialists and workers who are always welcome in the team, and veterans whose experience at Remmontazh LLC is very appreciated. Veterans willingly pass on their professional knowledge and skills to younger employees. In addition, 4 employees with disabilities work as watchmen and dispatchers in the company. With all employees, OOO Remmontazh concluded perpetual (permanent) employment contracts. Also, the majority of employees are engaged on a full-time basis. 46 Wage Remmontazh LLC guarantees employees stable income, timely and decent wages. During 2019, Remmontazh LLC ensured a steady increase in salaries, significantly exceeding the inflation rate. The average salary of employees in 2019 amounted to 24,846 rubles, which is 4.5 thousand rubles. higher than in 2018. The growth was 24%. It is important that OOO “Remmontazh” provides equal pay in positions with the same competency requirements for both men and women. If necessary, the company takes into account and pays overtime for employees. The company believes that it is important to provide the appropriate financial rewards to attract, retain and motivate the best employees. Remmontazh LLC has a remuneration system that takes into account the effectiveness and contribution of employees to the development of the company. As an intangible motivation, LLC Remmontazh is awarded corporate awards for professional holidays, with the help of which employees are encouraged for achieving high production results, professionalism and many years of conscientious work. Employees of Remmontazh LLC also receive various district, regional, departmental and public awards for services in the field of consumer services and housing and communal services, corporate volunteering and environmental education. In 2019, a significant achievement of the company was the rewarding of the head with gratitude from the Ministry of Economic Development of the Kaluga Region and the employee with gratitude from the Chairman of the Federation Council. A drawing of a participant in a children's competition held with the support of Remmontazh LLC. 47 Social politics Remmontazh LLC provides its employees with social support. The company provides financial assistance to employees in difficult situations and interest-free loans. The efforts of Remmontazh LLC are focused on creating a comfortable working environment for employees, which also contributes to the growth of staff motivation and the effectiveness of its work. The company pays attention to the health of employees. Employees participate in medical examination programs, undergo preliminary and periodic medical examinations. To help employees get sick as little as possible, seasonal flu vaccination is encouraged. Remmontazh LLC has a production control program in accordance with which sanitary rules are followed and sanitary and epidemiological (preventive) measures are taken. A separate area of health care is the prevention and reduction of occupational morbidity. In order to minimize the risks of occupational diseases, Remmontazh LLC pays special attention to the implementation of the following measures: application and improvement of individual and collective protective equipment; conducting professional selection and examination of unsuitability; application of technological measures for mechanization and automation of production. The company supports all sports hobbies of its employees. The company creates conditions not only for work, but also for employees to relax. Corporate holidays are traditional. A drawing of a participant in a children's competition held with the support of Remmontazh LLC. 48 Employee training Remmontazh LLC pays attention to the development of professional potential of employees. Therefore, a key area of the company's social policy is employee training. Employee training is becoming increasingly important as the service area grows, technical equipment improves, innovation is introduced and the number of employees grows. Employees of the company regularly improve their qualifications in the framework of their duties, undergo training in labor protection, industrial safety, electrical and fire safety. In 2019, new employees of the company received training on labor protection and safety directly at the enterprise. In addition, new personnel underwent professional training at the enterprise on the right to work with waste of hazard classes 1-4. On a quarterly basis, for all employees of the company in 2019, a scheduled briefing on labor protection and safety was carried out. In 2019, the company's specialists carried out a large and responsible work on the processing of labor protection instructions. Remmontazh LLC implements measures to prevent injuries to workers. To achieve this, OOO Remmontazh purchases and provides the employees of the company with the necessary personal protective equipment, and jobs are equipped in accordance with safety requirements.In 2019, the company's specialists carried out a large and responsible work on the processing of labor protection instructions. Remmontazh LLC implements measures to prevent injuries to workers. To achieve this, OOO Remmontazh purchases and provides the employees of the company with the necessary personal protective equipment, and jobs are equipped in accordance with safety requirements. A drawing of a participant in a children's competition held with the support of Remmontazh LLC. 49 Vocational guidance for LLC served 5 districts in the schoolchildren Kaluga region.Improving the Caring for the influx of young environmental situation in the personnel, the company Remmontazh service area and ensuring the LLC carries out career guidance among sanitary and epidemiological school students. well-being of the population, In 2019, the director of Remmontazh company was Remmontazh LLC Radik Zakiryanov able to achieve significant held an open entrepreneurship lesson for economic results. students in grade 10 of the Baryatinsky secondary school. An employee of the There is an opinion that organization, a member of the Union of the “junk” business is Journalists of Russia Oksana Barkova unpresentable. However, the prepared a great review about this. The director of the Remmontazh LLC waste collection company Radik Zakiryanov belongs to his publication was posted on the website of field of activity without any hesitation. Radik Akhnafovich sees in her an amazing the provincial feuilleton “Thomas combination of charitable deeds and the possibility of profit. And this, as an experienced METELKIN” network publication, a businessman noted, is very rare today! partner of Remmontazh LLC. Remmontazh LLC began its activities in the Kirov region in 2006. And she did not do “Cleanliness is the key to what she is doing now. Three years later, the organization was headed by Radik Zakiryanov. success” He reoriented the company to the sphere of waste management. The lesson was called “Cleanliness is the key to success.” He received such a It was hard for us. But we did everything ourselves. They put things in order in the name for a reason. The fact is that the service area, formed a team, improved the qualifications of employees, and increased the company, which has been successfully material and technical base. And most importantly, they overcame a wary attitude to managed by Radik Zakiryanov for 10 business. Indeed, for many, private entrepreneurship is associated with something years, operates in the field of waste temporary, one-day, unreliable. Especially when it comes to the field of waste management. She is involved in the management. And only thanks to the transparent work of our company it was possible to collection, removal, transportation and win the trust of people, ” Radik Akhnafovich shared with the youth. disposal of MSW. In 2019, Remmontazh 50 Remmontazh LLC participates in the United Nations Global Compact for Sustainable Development. The company's participation in this largest and most significant UN initiative means that it implements a policy of voluntary social responsibility in the field of respect for human rights, labor relations, environmental protection and anti-corruption. So, adhering to the basic principles of the Global Compact, Remmontazh LLC takes care of the training of its personnel, provides support measures to its employees, and carries out various environmental and patriotic events. In particular, Remmontazh implements the project “0 waste” and implements separate collection of MSW in educational institutions of the Kirov, Baryatinsky and Lyudinovsky districts, and also acts as the ideological inspirer and sponsor of the Give the Planet Life international environmental meeting. By the way, Baryatino schoolchildren are regular participants in the eco-gathering. At a meeting with Radik Zakiryanov, some guys put on T-shirts donated to young conservationists on the 4th meeting. Seeing that the company contributes to the improvement of people's lives, that is, it has come for a long time and works seriously, employees give it their due. They show loyalty to the organization-employer, put their labor and their knowledge into it. Thus, sustainable development, both internal and external, is achieved, ”said the director of Remmontazh LLC. Over 10 years, Remmontazh LLC has grown by the number of employees by almost 9 times. In 2009, the company had only 9 people, and in 2019 it already has 76 employees. A significant increase in staff is associated with the expansion of the service area and the fulfillment of new tasks assigned to the organization by the Kaluga regional environmental operator as part of the country's ongoing reform of the sphere of handling waste. The turnover of the company Remmontazh , its profit, the wages of employees is growing. The size of wages was not a secret for students. The main workforce of the company garbage truck drivers earn an average of 35 thousand rubles, sorting line operators 25, the chief engineer 60, and the head of the organization 57. Yes, the director turned out to be not the highest paid employee. He lost this status to other highly qualified specialists. This is rarely seen. 51 On the reform of the MSW management system Radik Zakiryanov introduced the 10th graders to the course of the “garbage reform” in our region, which is being carried out as part of the national project “Ecology”. The essence of reforming the MSW management system is to concentrate waste streams, arrange for their sorting and processing. Remmontazh LLC takes an active part in this process. The expansion of the service area allowed the organization to increase the volume of waste transported, and, therefore, to plan the development of its activities. In the immediate plans of the company to build an automatic waste sorting line and in the future to begin processing recycled materials. Remmontazh will recycle plastic. Today, Remmontazh LLC sends the waste A drawing of a participant in a sorted using a manual line for recycling to its children's competition held with the support of Remmontazh LLC. partners. Unfortunately, there are few such enterprises. PET bottles are sent to Solnechnogorsk, Voskresensk, Tver, other types of plastic to Przemysl, Maloyaroslavets, Zhizdru, paper to Bryansk, aluminum to St. Petersburg and Podolsk, glass to Obninsk. For information, in a science city, insulation is made from cullet and glass containers. The director of Remmontage showed the guys what this unique building material looks like. Touching a sample of the foamed glass with interest, the boys and girls were amazed at its lightness and excellent thermal insulation characteristics. -If you want to ensure that all types of waste are separated, then you can recycle everything. We need to strive for this, ” Radik Akhnafovich set the task. 52 Intelligent MSW management system Reform of the waste management sector demanded that Remmontazh LLC restructure its entire work. The most important innovation in the company’s activity was the introduction of an intellectual MSW management system. Baryatinsky schoolchildren saw what the intellectual system of MSW management is and how it works. The young guests of Remmontazh LLC were presented with monitors with interactive maps, diagrams of the served areas. They marked the routes of garbage trucks and the place of accumulation of solid municipal waste. The container sites marked in blue meant that the crews of the vehicles had received applications for waste collection from them, but had not yet fulfilled them. The green color indicated the fulfillment of the application and the confirmation of this with photographic materials. Dispatchers monitor the work of the intelligent control system of MSW. On the day of the open lesson, Irina Ustinova was at the control panel. Irina Vladimirovna willingly gave the students of the Baryatinsky school explanations about the advantages of the new technology: “Every day on the line we produce up to 14 garbage trucks equipped with the GLONASS satellite navigation system. We see where and at what time the cars are. In the event of a breakdown, we can quickly replace equipment or change the route of garbage trucks. If the machine was unable to remove the waste from the accumulation site due to unforeseen circumstances, for example, the entrance to the container site was dug up, then we have the opportunity to coordinate the transfer of the application for this facility. Crews of garbage trucks record the condition of the sites where garbage containers are located, before and after the removal of waste. Photo reports arrive in the database within 2-3 minutes. Sent photos are marked with the date, time, coordinates. All photo materials are stored in the archive. ” 53 Excursion to the landfill The lesson “Cleanliness is the key to success” visited the Remmontazh solid municipal waste landfill. And they made an important discovery for themselves. Previously, they imagined that the place where a huge amount of garbage is taken is an ordinary landfill, where the garbage masses lie to themselves under the open sky and decompose, exuding a stench and flaming up with fires. However, in the Kirov district, students from a neighboring municipality were able to make sure that such a seemingly simple facility is, in fact, a complex complex designed not only for disposal, but also for the safe disposal of various types of MSW. And, in addition, with proper operation, no fetid smell and fires occur here. The guys watched the work of the sorting line and asked why LLC “Remmontazh” was going to build another one. “On the existing line, waste sorting is done manually. And you know that it is human nature to tire and make mistakes. Those who sort MSW are big workers, and many thanks to them for their work, but they can, for obvious reasons, skip the waste to be recycled. On an automatic line, MSW will be sorted out without human intervention, using modern technologies. So, plastic, for example, can be divided by grade and color. With the launch of such a waste sorting line, the percentage of selected useful fractions will increase and the quality of waste sorting will increase, which will affect the cost of secondary raw materials sent for processing. In a word, we will better sort the waste, bring more waste into the economy and send less waste to landfill, ” the businessman replied. 54 Trash Quiz At the Baryatinsky school, which has been participating in the Remmontazh LLC project for the implementation of separate waste collection for several years, the Garbage Quiz was held. The cognitive game was organized by the company's specialists responsible for environmental education. In answering their questions, high school students demonstrated their knowledge about the harm that MSW cause to the environment, what methods of waste management exist, why MSW recycling needs to be established. Parting words and rewards The open lesson ended with parting words. The director told the guys that being an entrepreneur is extremely interesting, but very difficult. The interest lies in the fact that there are no other bosses over you; you yourself create material benefits for yourself and those who work with you and with you. And the difficulty lies in the fact that not everyone can decide and take responsibility for the creation of any enterprise and work team. In order to start a business, you need to get a basic education and establish yourself as a classy specialist in your field, and then, standing at the helm of your business, constantly improve your skills, learn to analyze the situation and make decisions. Present at the open lesson, the head of the training and business center of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of the Kaluga Region Svetlana Vartanova thanked Radik Zakiryanova for a comprehensive immersion in his business. The meeting was non-standard and made a lasting impression. It allowed us to look at the activities in the field of waste management in a completely different way. There was a place in the work of the garbage collection company for creativity, environmental education, and volunteerism. Addressing the children, the representative of the Kaluga CCI expressed the hope that communication with the entrepreneur, who is aware of his social responsibility to society, was useful for them. As a sign of cooperation, Svetlana Leonidovna presented students of the 10th grade of the Baryatinsky school with certificates of participation in the event. In turn, the company “Remmontazh” LLC presented the schoolchildren with bright icons with a picture and the appeal “Let's divide, protect the Earth” as a keepsake. 55 Charity Recognizing the high social responsibility to society, the company Remmontazh LLC takes part in charity work. With the support of Remmontazh LLC, in Kaluga region in 2019, various events were organized and carried out aimed at environmental education of the younger generation, patriotic education of young people and assistance to socially vulnerable groups of the population, especially orphans and children in difficult life situations. situation. In 2019, Remmontazh provided charity assistance in organizing events of the Autonomous Non-Profit Organization Ecological and Patriotic Initiative, with which it cooperates. In 2019, with the support of Remmontazh, ANO EPI held various events with the participation of pupils of the Cheryomushki social and rehabilitation center for minors in the SpasDemensky district. Remmontazh LLC received a Letter of Appreciation from the Ecological and Patriotic Initiative ANO “for responsible attitude to environmental education issues and financial assistance in organizing the III International Ecological Meeting“ Give the Planet Life ”, which took place in September 2019 in the Kuibyshev District and gathered more than 130 participants from the Kaluga region, the city of Ryazan and the Republic of Belarus. Letters of appreciation for the help in organizing and conducting the eco-gathering were received by the company employees Solovyova EV, Filatova EA, Barkova OB Thanks to the director of Remmontazh LLC R. Zakiryanov for the organization of the eco-flight, the director of the Voskresenskaya school of the Kirov region A.A. Dashina, whose team took part in this event. 56 With the support of Remmontazh LLC, the partners of ANO EPI were able to implement the project “Be a Man, a Man, You Are on Your Own Earth!”, Which became the winner of the presidential grants contest. The project coordinator was an employee of Remmontazh Oksana Bogdanovna Barkova. For the assistance provided by ANO “EPI”, she was awarded the gratitude of partners. In 2019, with the support of Remmontazh LLC, the organization ANO EPI held the regional stage of the National Competition of Young Poets and Songwriters “Talent Warming with Good”. This competition was held for children in difficult social conditions. The project coordinator in the Kaluga region was an employee of LLC Remmontazh, corporate volunteer Barkova Oksana Bogdanovna. For the assistance provided in the implementation of the project, she was awarded a letter of thanks from the Public Chamber of the Russian Federation. 57 Remmontazh LLC provided charitable assistance for organizing one of the shifts of the children's educational camp “El Greco”. The event was attended by students of the Erdenevsky school of the Maloyaroslavets district of the Kaluga region, who showed themselves in the district scientific and practical conference. A letter of appreciation for the help in carrying out the change of children's clearance camp was received by Oksana Barkova, an employee of Remmontazh. In 2019, Remmontazh LLC provided charitable assistance to the organizers of the jubilee, 50th sports and tourist rally, which took place on the territory of the Lyudinovsky district. The company received a letter of thanks for supporting the event. 58 In 2019, Remmontazh LLC provided charitable assistance to the organizers in the implementation of such a socially significant project as the rally of junior army men of the Kaluga Region. Director of Remmontazh LLC R. Zakiryanov received two Letters of Appreciation from GBU KO Training and Methodological Center for MilitaryPatriotic Education and Training of Citizens for Military Service. One is for personal contribution and cooperation in the development of the All-Russian military-patriotic movement “Yunarmia” in the Kaluga Region. And another for the high-quality organization of the Unarmeer rally, support and attention to the interests of children and adolescents. 59 In 2019, Remmontazh LLC took an active part in the preparation and implementation of a project to improve the Birch Grove square in the village of Berezhki, Kirovsky District. The peculiarity of this project was that it was based on a local initiative. Head of the Kirov District Administration Fedenkov handed the director of OOO Remmontazh R.A. Zakiryanov a letter of thanks for supporting local initiatives and contribution to the project. 60 5. ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION Remmontazh LLC complies with the basic principles of the UN Global Compact in the field of environmental protection. Principle 7: “Businesses must help prevent negative environmental impacts” Principle 8: “Businesses should take initiatives to increase environmental responsibility.” Principle 9: “Businesses must promote the development and diffusion of green technologies” A drawing of a participant in a children's competition held with the support of Remmontazh LLC. 61 ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY Remmontazh LLC continues to adhere to the environmental policy developed by the company's team, which is based on the implementation of environmental education and the promotion of sustainable development values Separate waste collection I started in 2015, Remmontazh LLC is implementing a project for the implementation of separate waste collection in the city of Kirov, Kaluga Region. The initiative of the company is supported by local authorities, as well as partners in the person of ANO EPI and SBI Union of Volunteers of Russia . The project began with urban educational institutions, but gradually rural ones began to be included in it. So, in 2018, the first rural school, Berezhkovskaya, joined the project on North Ossetia, and a year later, in 2019, the school named after Hero of the Soviet Union M.V. expressed a desire to become a participant in the project. Ugarova in the village of Voskresensk. And there are more of those who share. With the support of Remmontazh, the Resurrection School was provided with all the infrastructure necessary for separate waste collection. “First of all, we arranged a container site. It is equipped with four containers. In addition, we provided colored cardboard boxes for installation on all floors of the educational institution. These environmentally friendly and easily replaceable containers are equipped with garbage bags. They provide for the division of MSW into strictly defined fractions. The RNO participants will have to separate food waste, glass and aluminum containers, plastic and PET bottles, paper and cardboard. In the near future, our specialists will conduct a series of environmental classes for students on the topic of caring for the environment and acquiring skills in the North Ossetia, ” said Mikhail Fedotkin, chief engineer of Remmontazh LLC. 62 Everyone knows that a lot of patriotic work is -Our students are engaged in the improvement and gardening of the being actively carried out at the Resurrection School. school territory, take part in various environmental contests, promotions and However, issues of environmental education are also events. So, at the beginning of this school year, the team of our educational given due attention. The educational institution is institution first visited the traditional International Ecological Meeting “Give located in a picturesque green area. Therefore, local the Planet Life”, which is held by the Autonomous Non-Profit Organization students in a special way love and value nature, and “Ecological and Patriotic Initiative” in conjunction with LLC Remmontazh. also try to take care of it. At the eco-gathering, our guys really liked it. There was a lot of interesting and useful. In particular, the children tested the RSO system, implemented by Remmontazh and providing for the organization of waste collection directly at the places of their formation, in action», said the school principal Anna Dashina. Perhaps it was the “Give the planet life” eco-gathering that prompted the staff of the Resurrection School to decide to join the project on the Republic of North Ossetia. “Earth is our common home. We need to be careful about him. Both adults and children should take care of what surrounds us. Each of us is simply obliged to learn how to produce as little trash as possible and to understand where all this garbage is formed as a result. We are very grateful to Remmontazh LLC for the opportunity to change our environmental worldview by joining the project for separate waste collection, ”Anna Alexandrovna noted. 63 Environmental education Implementing the environmental education program, specialists of Remmontazh LLC conduct environmental lectures and quizzes on separate waste collection in educational institutions and at various events in which they participate. In 2019, coverage was 615 people. On carrying out eco-classes and eco-lectures, the company’s specialist responsible for environmental education conducts statistics. School classes In the period from September 1 to December 31, 2019 in general education schools of the city of Kirov and the village of Baryatino, ecology lectures and ecoviz quizzes from grades 1 to 6 were held. During the event, a mini-exhibition of garbage crafts was presented to children. The most active participants of the event were awarded with badges with a bright pattern on separate waste collection. October 2 a lesson for 15 students of the 1st grade was held at school No. 4 in Kirov school. October 7 A “Garbage” quiz for 19 children of different ages was held at Kirov School No. 4. October 8 at the Kirov School No. 5, an eco-lecture for first-graders was held. Covered by 14 children. October 8 A “Garbage” quiz for grades 5 and 6 was held at Kirov School No. 5. 26 students are covered. October 9 at the Kirov school number 8 was an eco-lecture for the 1st grade, 14 children participated. October 14 Kirov School No. 8. The Garbage quiz of the 5th and 6th grades. 24, 19 people October 22 at the Kirov school number 7 was an eco-lecture for the 1st class with 19 students. 64 October 23 “Garbage” quiz for 26 students of the 5th grade was held at Kirov School No. 7. October 28 “Garbage” quiz for 20 students of the 10th grade was held at the Baryatinsky school. October 29 Ecological lecture for the 1st grade was held at Kirov School No. 7, 20 children participated. October 31 “Garbage” quiz for 22 students of the 5th grade was held at Kirov School No. 7. November 14 A “Garbage” quiz for 25 students of the 6th grade was held at Kirov School No. 7. November 15 in Kirov School No. 1, two ecology lectures were held for two first grades with a total of 61 students. December 5 three “Garbage” quizzes for students of three 6th grades were held at Kirov School No. 1, 59 students were enrolled. 65 Purity Day Election The lesson was organized for students of the 3rd grade. Third-graders were told about the problem of environmental pollution by waste and about waste management methods, the most advanced of which is recycling based on the involvement of useful fractions of waste (recyclables) in the new economic turnover. The schoolchildren amazed the lecturers with their vast knowledge on this topic and especially the fact that they know by definition how the environment is. In the framework of the V International Ecological Forum and on the eve of World Cleanliness Day, which was celebrated on September 21 in 2019, representatives of Remmontazh LLC and the Autonomous non-profit organization Ecological and Patriotic Initiative conducted an ecology lecture on the separate collection of waste in Baryatinsky secondary school, where, with the support of The company “Remmontazh” introduced the RMS system. At the end of the event, the guys were presented with badges. 66 Classes in event formats Specialists of Remmontazh LLC conducted ecology lectures and eco-quizzes as part of various other events. February 22 at the change of the children's clearance-camp El GrEko an eco-lecture was held for 8 children. June 1–2 at the change of the children's clearance camp El Greco , an eco-lecture was conducted for 15 children. September 5 within the framework of the III International Ecomeeting, 120 children and 20 teachers were enrolled in ecology in the Republic of North Ossetia. September 19 at the Baryatinsky school an environmental lecture for 24 students took place. September 21 a practical lesson on the Republic of North Ossetia was held as part of the cleanup on the Clean Day, which was held in the village of Vysokoye. 20 schoolchildren participated in 11 adults. September 26 at the First Civil Forum of the Kaluga Region, an ecoviz quiz for 10 children was held. November 4 within the framework of the 1st Kaluga Family festival, an ecotourism game was held, in which 30 participants of different ages took part. I would like to tell you more about some of the environmental education events related to conducting eco-lectures and eco-quizzes. A drawing of a participant in a children's competition held with the support of Remmontazh LLC. 67 Children's environmental clearance camp El Greco Remmontazh’s experience in the implementation of the Republic of North Ossetia continues to be applied during the children's environmental enlightenment camp “El Greco”, which is organized on the basis of the Grachy business park by AT RESURS LLC, Remmontazh LLC and the Ecological and Patriotic Initiative ANO . In 2019, through the efforts of partners, 3 shifts of clearance camp were organized. The first change of clearance camp 2019 was organized on February 2-3. The corporate volunteer from Remmontazh LLC, Oksana Barkova, customer service specialist, and the director of ANO EPI Mikhail Chuprinin were the curators of this shift. Partners from Remmontazh LLC provided the infrastructure for separate waste collection in the business park, the purpose of which the volunteers spoke to the participants in the eclamp camp. It is worth noting that preschoolers took part in this shift. For two days, the guys who participated in the weekend camp were able to visit the MU MU Art Museum of Garbage, visited the Igrachi Recreation Center, participated in master classes, and watched eco-cartoons. The curriculum also included Introducing the Microscope. Corporate volunteers from Remmontazh LLC and representatives of ANO EPI took part in organizing and conducting the El Greco shift on February 21-22. They acted as shift counselors and held a separate waste collection session for participants. In the next change of the children's ekolager of the weekend, El GreEco , a separate waste collection system from Remmontazh LLC was operating. The event was attended by preschoolers and first graders. 68 The third change in the clearance camp El Greco took place from June 1 to 2. Along with Remmontazh LLC and ANO EPI, it was joined by the Kaluga regional environmental operator. ” At the invitation of the organizers, 15 students from the Erdenevsk and Kremen schools of the Maloyaroslavets and Medyn districts took part in the two-day environmental and educational event. -The goal of the camp-camp El Greco is to promote among the younger generation a careful attitude to nature, reasonable consumption and creative rethinking of attitude to unnecessary things, and simply to garbage. Together with Rooks Business Park, we have already conducted several camp shifts with the participation of children of different ages and quite successfully. And on June 1 and 2, we invited schoolchildren actively involved in environmental and research activities to plunge into the world of ecology and creativity. A trip to El Greco became a well-deserved incentive for them for their contribution to the protection of nature, corporate volunteers say. The third shift was dedicated to the June 1 holiday Children's Day and the Ecologist's Day, which is celebrated annually on June 5. At the grand opening of the camp, a greeting from the guest of honor was heard. Dmitry Ecov, Deputy Head of the Department of Environmental Management of the Ministry of Natural Resources and Ecology of the Kaluga Region, congratulated the guys on the ecological change. The camp participants completed the mission assigned to them to green the territory of the Grachi business park. Here they planted a white lilac and sumy deer. These plants are a gift from the Erdenevsky school. 69 The children expected a rich educational and entertainment program. In the “Garbage Quiz” conducted by specialists of Remmontazh LLC, students demonstrated their knowledge of environmental pollution by human waste and in practice tested the infrastructure for the separate collection of MSW provided by Remmontazh LLC. For the correct answer, the participants in the game received tokens with the image of a cute IVF dinosaur urging people to protect nature. As a reward for activity, the top three winners were awarded t-shirts. The guys’s imagination was struck by an excursion to the Mu Mu Art Museum of Garbage, where unique exhibits from garbage from around the world are presented. Employees of the Art Museum of Garbage held interesting workshops for camp participants. On one, they taught the children how to make brooches from pieces cut into CDs, and on the other, wallets from the pages of glossy magazines. Gathered in an impromptu “Mu Mu” movie theater, the guys watched the documentary “Garbage”, filmed by British director Candida Brady. The story is narrated by the famous British film actor Jeremy Irons. Together with him, young residents of the Kaluga region in absentia made expeditions to huge landfills in 11 countries from Libya to Iceland. Having entered into a big conversation with everyone connected with the environmental problem, they tried to understand whether it is possible to get rid of garbage without harming human health. 70 After watching, the students discussed the film with the teachers and curators of the camp. Also, camp participants attended classes prepared by students and teachers of Kaluga State University. K.E. Tsiolkovsky. Students learned the capabilities of a field chemistry lab and microscope. The closure of the shift was marked by the presentation of certificates to students of the Erdenev and Kremen schools, indicating that they have embarked on the path of environmental culture and will now be able to consciously and correctly interact with the outside world, that is, without harming themselves and the planet. 71 “Garbage” quiz on the third international ecogathering “Give the planet life” Participants of the third international environmental gathering “Give the planet life” on the “Garbage” quiz were able to demonstrate their knowledge about the danger posed by waste to the environment. Thematic competition in erudition, wit and ingenuity for children was conducted by specialists of Remmontazh LLC. Pupils answered fifty questions that made it possible to establish the reasons for the increase in the amount of MSW on the planet, the timing of waste decomposition, and the main ways of handling them. The ecotourism leaders took part Young people were The Garbage quiz was watched by employees in separate waste collection according to convinced that the main thing in of the Ministry of Natural Resources of the Kaluga the system of Remmontazh LLC, which the North Ossetia is to overcome Region. They liked the savvy of children in the topic provided the eco-gathering camp with their laziness. Throwing away of the global environmental problem of the 21st infrastructure. From a pre-prepared garbage, it is worth considering century related to environmental pollution by garbage bag, the guys laid out the whether it will harm nature and production and consumption waste. “The guys garbage in bins by fractions: household what benefits can be derived from answered such questions that high-level specialists waste, glass / aluminum can, plastic / it. Then hazardous waste and understand. They are a personnel reserve for us, ”the PET bottle, paper / cardboard. household appliances should not employees of the“ green ”department admired and be disposed of in bins, landfills shared their impressions of the eco-gathering on the air and landfills, and recyclables will of the Kaluga State Television and Radio Broadcasting be involved in re-economic Company. circulation. 72 Ecoviz on the civil forum Special attention on the information platform of LLC Remmontazh and ANO EPI, presented at the first civil forum of the Kaluga Region, which took place on September 29, 2019 in Kaluga, was given to young visitors. For children who are interested in environmental issues, social activists held a “Garbage Quiz”. Children answered questions from adults about the pollution of the planet by production and consumption waste, and in the end, commemorative badges with the dinosaur Eco were awarded as a reward. 73 Eco quiz at the exhibition Peace and Clear In November 2019, taking part in the 13th International Exhibition-Fair “Peace and Clear”, specialists of Remmontazh LLC, together with partners from ANO EPI, held a fascinating environmental quiz on their site as part of the first Family Festival. It was called so: “That waste should go into business to save nature.” The game introduced the urgent problem of environmental pollution to consumer waste, revealed the pros and cons of MSW management methods, and showed the importance of introducing separate waste collection for recycling. More than 30 people checked their knowledge in the ecoviz quiz. Active young spouses with young children, dads and mothers with representatives of the younger generation, aunts with nephews, grandmothers with grandchildren, and also completely independent schoolchildren and students were interested in the “garbage” topic. They thoughtfully answered all questions, discovered something new for themselves, expressed their own opinions and shared their own practice of participation in the RNO. All participants of the quiz were presented with a badge with a picture promoting a separate collection of waste. It depicted funny ballot boxes for paper, plastic and glass. Holding hands, they addressed a call to the inhabitants of the green planet: Let's divide, protect the Earth! 74 Ecological action dedicated to World Cleanliness Day September 21, 2019 marked World Cleanliness Day. Attracting the attention of the population to the problem of production and consumption waste from his native land, his country and our common home planet Earth, he united more than 150 countries of the world. Russia has joined this important environmental date. In 70 regions of our country on this day, garbage collection campaigns and various educational events promoting an environmentally friendly lifestyle were held. An active participant in World Cleanliness Day was the Kaluga region. On September 21, environmental cleanups took place in all the municipalities of the region. First of all, they were aimed at clearing garbage from natural areas: forests, clearings, and the banks of water bodies. And, in addition, waste collection was mandatory separately. For example, in the Kuybyshevsky district, an action was taken to clean a ravine in a forest in the village of Vysokoe Village. 32 people took part in the eco-submarine. These are students of the 7th, 8th and 9th grades of the Betlitsky secondary school, workers of the village administration, local residents, as well as activists of public associations: “Union of Russian Volunteers” and “Russian Officers”. The event was organized by the Autonomous Non-Profit Organization Ecological and Patriotic Initiative with the support of the Kaluga Regional Ecological Operator State Enterprise, LLC Remmontazh garbage collection company and the All-Russian Popular Front movement. 75 On a subbotnik, the protesters used the separate waste collection technology of Remmontazh LLC, which operates in the educational institutions of the neighboring Kirovsky district, as well as in the village of Baryatino and the city of Lyudinovo. Garbage from the landfill was collected in separate colored bags. Blue was intended for collecting plastic and PET bottles, green for glass and aluminum cans, yellow for paper and cardboard, black for food waste and unsorted fractions. Adults engaged in RNOs were new. However, they quickly mastered, having learned what secondary raw materials Remmontazh LLC collects for processing. But the students of the Betlitsky school did not even have to explain anything. Young conservationists were well acquainted with how to separate the waste and why it was necessary to deal with it. The fact is that the employees of Remmontazh presented them with their RNS system during educational lectures and, of course, at the annual eco-meeting, in which Betlitsky schoolchildren constantly take part. Sorting recyclables at a landfill was not easy. The state of the bulk of the waste did not allow their use for recycling due to severe pollution. As a result of joint work, black garbage bags were most accumulated, the contents of which would not bring any benefit. Hardly, but the activists also tried to collect the least contaminated glass, aluminum can, plastic and PET bottles into appropriate bags green and blue. There were not a single yellow packet, since paper and cardboard, which had lain for a long time in the rain and in mud, could no longer be used as waste paper. “In practice, we were convinced that it is easier and much more profitable to separate the waste for further maximum use in the places of its formation, rather than in landfills,” the young people concluded. 76 By agreement with the Kaluga regional environmental operator, Remmontazh LLC provided for the removal and disposal of waste collected at the cleanup in honor of Cleanliness Day. For the transportation of garbage, the partners of the event organizers sent a garbage truck and a GAZelle. The protesters were happy to meet the cars arriving by the appointed time. With genuine interest, adults and children watched how the Remmontazh workers, before starting loading the special vehicles, took a photo of the cleaning place on the tablet and recorded the number of filled garbage bags. They immediately sent the photos taken via the Internet to the dispatcher of an intelligent system that manages the waste management process in 5 districts of the region. Then black bags and construction waste went to the garbage truck, filling it to capacity, and colored ones with recyclables separately to the GAZelle. Helping to load, the schoolchildren sincerely rejoiced that everything fit, and everything is now clean. While in the village of Vysokoe, students of the Betlitsky school expressed a desire to visit the local mass grave, where three unknown defenders of the motherland who died during the Great Patriotic War are buried. Under the leadership of the director of the ANO “EPI” Mikhail Chuprinin, a group of children went with a teacher to pay tribute to the fallen soldiers who retained the opportunity for future descendants to enjoy the beauty of their native nature. Just in case, the patriots brought garbage bags with them. And, not surprisingly, they came in handy. Walking along the road leading to the burial, the children gathered bottles, packages, and packaging of all stripes scattered along the curbs and edges of the forest. So the students returned back with garbage sorted by color bags. 77 III International Ecological rally “Give the planet life!” From September 5 to September 7, 2019, with the support of Remmontazh LLC, the III International Ecological rally of schoolchildren “Give the planet life!” Was held. It was timed to coincide with the V International Forum Environmental Education and turned out to be the most representative from the point of view of the geography of participants in its entire long history. The ecogathering gathered more than 150 people on its unchanged site in the Kuibyshevsky district the town of Mount Melovaya. 120 of them were schoolchildren interested in environmental issues. The 3-day event was attended by 17 teams from the Kaluga region, as well as the Ryazan region and the Republic of Belarus. 78 The participants of the eco-gathering learned what the Kaluga regional environmental operator is doing and what are the successes in its work. The conversation about “garbage reform” with the participants of the environmental rally continued at the “garbage” quiz and during a conversation with the Deputy Minister of Construction and Housing and Communal Services of the Kaluga Region. What role does the forest play in the development of agriculture and how can people and production level their forest plantations? A carbon footprint was told by a Moscow guest, Andrei Stetsenko, a specialist in soil science and a candidate of economic sciences, associate professor of Moscow State University named after M.V. Lomonosova, Director of the Center for Environmental Innovation ANO The ecoslet program turned out to be bright and saturated. Reform in the field of waste management was in the center of attention of the participants of the event. The wall newspaper exhibition, which the participants prepared in advance specifically for the eco-gathering, helped introduce the teams to each other. With its help, the teams presented their educational institutions, themselves and their environmental activities. All informational publications turned out to be very informative. Representatives of the Ministry of Natural Resources of the Kaluga Region made a presentation on the implementation of the Ecology national project. 79 Invaluable support in environmental education activities to the organizers of eco-gathering has traditionally been provided by Kaluga State University named after K.E. Tsiolkovsky. The educational program of the environmental rally was attended by professors, associate professors and university students. They used the eco-gathering site to familiarize students of schools in the region with a university and career guidance for students. Classes were held in subjects related to the natural sciences. The participants of the rally worked with a field chemical laboratory, looked through a microscope and studied the measuring instruments used in geography. The students of KSU in the field of preparation “chemistry”, “geography and English”, “land management and cadastres” made excellent advertisements for their university. They made a creative presentation of the university, conducted classes and helped teachers in this, and when there was a pause, they filled the free time of the participants of the eco-meeting with useful things. 80 The creative highlight of the environmental gathering was added by the Mu Mu Art Museum of Garbage. Museum specialists held master classes for children. At the first creative lesson, the guests taught schoolchildren how to craft magnets from waste material aluminum caps. Appliques, beads, rhinestones were used to decorate them. In addition, museum administrators showed the children how plastic is recycled in Mu Mu using modern equipment, and what can be made of it by picking up a 3-D pen. Ecological rally “Give the planet life!” was originally conceived not as a competitive event, but as an educational one. There have never been winners or losers. But it could not be otherwise. After all, communicating, all participants of the eco-gathering are enriched with knowledge! However, in 2019, the organizers of the environmental rally decided to establish a special prize for the “Most Interested Team”. According to teachers who taught classes, lecturers and students, many participants showed activity and interest, demonstrating a high level of training in academic subjects, a creative approach to environmental protection and a deep immersion in environmental protection. But especially everyone remembered the representatives of the Zhizdrinsk school №2. 81 Talk about environmental education live The III International Ecological rally of schoolchildren “Give the planet life” was widely covered in the press. Journalists of the Kaluga State TV and Radio Company drew attention to the efforts of business, non-profit structures and authorities in environmental education of the younger generation. The organizers of the ecogathering were invited to the radio studio of the State Television and Radio Broadcasting Company. It took place on September 9, 2019, in hot pursuit of the ecological rally, which took place from September 5 to 7. The event was attended by the head of LLC Remmontazh R.A. Zakiryanov, director of the NGO Ecological and Patriotic Initiative M.V. Chuprinin and representatives of the Ministry of Natural Resources and Ecology of the Kaluga Region. The conversation was both about the implementation of this project, and about environmental education in general. 82 Forest protection and reforestation Remmontazh LLC pays particular attention to forest protection and reforestation issues. “Remmontazh” LLC, together with partners from ANO “EPI”, is attracting school students to reforestation. So, on April 19, 2019, with the support of OOO Remmontazh and ANO EPI, a forest planting took place on the territory of the Meshchovsky Forestry. The forest was planted by students from the Alesha village school of the Meshchovsky district. The event was attended by 25 children participants of the school forestry Forest Patrol and students of grades 6 and 7. Schoolchildren planted about 12,000 seedlings of spruce on 3 hectares. -We are glad to establish a friendship with Aleshin people. They love the forest and demonstrate their love for it with practical deeds. It is worth noting that the initiators of forest planting today, as well as increasing the load on planting themselves were the participants in school forestry. They asked us to bring more Christmas trees. Plant so plant! And we gladly supported their impulse. By the way, guys, we must give them their due, they did a wonderful job with hard and painstaking work, ”the organizers of the action shared. A tea party with a samovar and a sweet treat was organized for participants in the forest planting. Each participant was awarded a badge with the logo of the event. 83 Ecological and patriotic route With the support of Remmontazh LLC, the implementation and development of the ecological-patriotic route, which was organized by the partners of the company in the person of ANO EPI and the Kaluga regional branch of the Union of Russian Volunteers, continues. It operates on the territory of the Spas-Demensky district and passes through picturesque places that store traces of the Great Patriotic War. The walking part of the route is 17 kilometers. Stops are provided at military graves in Lazinki, Vysokoye, Sluzna, Gnezdilovskoy heights. In 2019, a trip along the route “Lazinki-VysokayaSluzna-Gnezdilovskaya Upland” in the Spas-Demensky district took place from June 21 to 22 and was dedicated to the Day of Remembrance and Sorrow. The 2-day event was attended by 23 people: adults and children of 4 district centers. Students and teachers of school No. 2 of the city of Lyudinovo, three families from Zhizdra, as well as representatives of Spas-Demensk and Kirov, became participants in the campaign. At night, in the camp at the Gnezdilovskaya height, where the participants of the campaign were accommodated, an open-air cinema worked. We watched films about the war. By tradition, the campaign participants were handed the badges from Remmontazh LLC and ANO EPI, as well as the books of the Save-Demen author Andrei Rebenk, as a keepsake of the route. 84 In March 2019, with the support of Remmontazh LLC, a team of activists led by ANO EPI installed the Poklonnaya Cross on a mass grave in the village of Lazinki in the Spas-Demensky district. It is set in memory of the soldiers who fell during the Great Patriotic War in the neighboring and now defunct village of Duke. The opening ceremony of the cross was attended by students of schools No. 1 and No. 2 of the city of Spas-Demensk, pupils of the Spas-Demensky social and rehabilitation center Cheryomushki , members of the Youth Council at the District Assembly of the Spas-Demensky district. With the support of Remmontazh LLC and ANO EPI, on May 3, 2019, a weekend family trip took place along the ecological and patriotic route Lazinki-Vysokaya-Sluzna-Gnezdilovskaya Vysota. It was dedicated to the 74th anniversary of the Victory of the Soviet people in the Great Patriotic War. The event was attended by 78 participants children and adults. The delegations of 3 municipalities of the Kaluga Region became participants in the campaign. The city of Kirov was represented by the Sunday school, with the largest number of students 50 people, Lyudinovo secondary school No. 2, Spas-Demensk the social and rehabilitation center Cheryomushki . At the site of the disappeared village of Sluzna, where former residents improved their parking, the marching team met and talked with Yury Akimov, a veteran of the search movement of the Spas-Demensky district. 85 The implementation of the project was widely covered on the pages of the network publication Provincial feuilleton Foma METELKIN, which is an information partner of Remmontazh LLC and ANO EPI. Several materials have been published. They were presented as a full-fledged information project in the International Competition “Ecological Culture. Peace and harmony. ” The project manager was the director of ANO “EPI” and the editor-in-chief of the network publication M. Chuprinin, and the performer was an employee of Remmontazh LLC, correspondent of the network publication, member of the Union of Journalists of Russia O. Barkova. The project on the ecological and patriotic route on the map of the Kaluga Region was awarded the Silver Certificate of the Fund named after Vernadsky in the category Media and Environmental Culture . 86 Assistance in the implementation of the presidential grant In 2019, Remmontazh LLC supported its partner, the Ecological and Patriotic Initiative ANO, in the implementation of the project “Be Human, human, you are in your own land”, an environmental education campaign for schoolchildren, which won the competition for the presidential grant. It is a series of creative contests among schoolchildren. The organizers invited students of schools and institutions of further education to compete in the ability to thoughtfully read poetry and prose, create inspirational drawings and craft impressive crafts on the theme of the beauty and fragility of the world around us. Thanks to the support of Remmontazh LLC, this project was launched in 11 municipalities of the Kaluga Region. It was attended by Dzerzhinsky, Zhizdrinsky, Kirovsky, Kuibyshevsky, Maloyaroslavetsky, Meshchovsky, Medynsky, Mosalsky, Spas-Demensky and Khvastovichsky districts, as well as the city of Kaluga. Having responded to the invitation, in most municipalities they decided to hold a competition of readers Nature is a source of inspiration. However, in several municipalities they wanted to try to realize all three creative directions. As a result, 17 different competitive events took place in the region. 87 The project included 2 stages. At the first stage, 10 contests of readers, 4 contests of drawings, 3 contests of crafts were held. The project was attended by more than 950 participants from 11 municipalities of the Kaluga region. 88 The second stage of the project involved visiting the winners of the Mu Mu Art Museum of Trash with a 5-hour entertaining and educational program, which included a tour of the museum, a quest, a visit to the Igrachi recreation center, lunch. And also an amazing workshop “The Living Trash” from the famous theater puppet artist Nikolai Komov. He taught the children to make dolls and masks from all unnecessary trash and to arrange a carnival. As a result, 210 schoolchildren visited Mu Mu. All project participants received commemorative badges. Competition winners were awarded with diplomas. The corporate volunteers of Remmontazh LLC deserved thanks. The organization’s specialists acted as members of the jury of the drawing contest, helped in rewarding the winners, accompanied the team in all the events planned during the visit to the garbage museum. 89 School diplomacy With the support of Remmontazh LLC, various events are held with the participation of Kaluga children and children from other regions of the country, as well as the Republic of Belarus. In 2019, these events finally took on a clear project form. It became known as the Environmental Diplomacy of Schoolchildren. In 2019, within the framework of this project, an environmental gathering of schoolchildren “Give the planet life” and 2 more events took place. About them further. Interregional Ecological Forum “For order on the planet!” In April 2019, with the support of Remmontazh LLC, a group of Kaluga schoolchildren were able to take part in the Inter-regional Environmental Forum “For Order on the Planet!” It was held in the capital of the Ryazan region from April 25 to 26. Remmontazh LLC and partners of the company from ANO EPI became one of the organizers and active participants in this forum. The forum was held on the basis of school No. 47 of the city of Ryazan the main initiator of the inter-regional meeting. Representatives of schools and institutions of additional education of the Ryazan region, as well as guests from Moscow and the Kaluga region, gathered here. The participants represented environmental and volunteer movements, were the authors of environmental, social, educational and research projects. The delegation from the Kaluga region included students from the Erdenevsky school of the Maloyaroslavets district and school number 5 of the city of Kirov. These educational institutions were presented at the Interregional Forum not by chance. As you know, the Erdenivites are doing a great job in the field of environmental protection and environmental education, and a project is being implemented in the Kirov school to introduce a separate waste collection system based on the unique technology of Remmontazh LLC. 90 The forum worked on creative sites prepared by the forces of the Children's Public Ecological Organization “Master of the Mescher”, school number 47. Moving from station to station, visitors made an exciting journey to the country of Ecology. Various contests, projects, games related to environmental protection awaited children and adults. A tour of the school was conducted for guests from Moscow and the Kaluga region. The school has two distinct areas of activity environmental and military-sports. Within the framework of the working part, the forum participants exchanged their accumulated experience in the field of environmental protection and environmental education. From the Kaluga side, reports were made by representatives of Remmontazh LLC, ANO EPI and students of the Erdenevsky school. 91 At the opening of the forum, Kaluga citizens fulfilled the honorable mission assigned to them and read out the welcoming address of the Minister of Natural Resources and Ecology of the Kaluga Region Varvara Antokhina. The appeal of the head of the “green department” spoke about the importance of fostering love for one’s native country, which begins with love for one’s native country. “Nature is our home. Caring for him is the best manifestation of love for the motherland. It is remarkable that for the forum participants these are not just words, but a life position, ”the text emphasized. The Kaluga delegation presented several gifts to the organizers of the forum. First of all, school No. 47 was presented with a souvenir in the form of pigeons holding a heart in their paws. With this gift, the Kaluga wished Ryazans peace and good, as well as an inexhaustible sincere love for all living things. The children’s ecological organization “The Meshchera’s Owner” presented a handicraft “Domovenka” and explained the meaning of the gift: “The owner is a brown bear, depicted on the logo of the eco club, only in the winter he can be at his den, and the rest of the time he’s at home bypasses his possessions. The house remains unattended. Let this little house made by the hands of a student of Maloyaroslavets school No. 4 Valeria Cherkashina, the winner of the project “Be a Human Being, You Are on Your Earth!” Which was implemented by ANO EPI in 2019 in Kaluga Region, using the owner’s absence presidential grant. 92 The main event of the forum was the environmental action Kaluga Forest on Ryazan Land. The team of partners represented by Remmontazh LLC and ANO EPI brought for planting in Ryazanshchina 3,500 spruce seedlings grown in the nursery of the Forest Fire Service of the Kaluga Region. EcoPatriots hope that the small Christmas trees will come in, get stronger, rise to the sky and will delight Ryazans for many decades, leaving a good memory of Kaluga residents. Planting operations took place in Rybnovsky district. Representatives of the Ryazan Forestry, the Ryazan Oil Refining Company and the staff of the Public Chamber of the Ryazan Region, headed by Chairman Natalya Grishina, joined the reforestation-schoolchildren. Addressing the participants of a large-scale event, Natalya Nikolaevna supported the remarkable initiative of the regions on partnership in the field of nature protection and quoted Professor Dmitry Likhachev saying that a person should protect birds, animals, flowers and trees where he stands, where he lives, “at a distance gaze and voice, even at arm's length. ” “The ecological forest planting campaign will allow Ryazans, Kaluga residents and Muscovites to contribute to improving the environment and strengthening friendship,” the public figure is convinced. 93 The Ryazans supplemented the environmental component of the forum with an interesting cultural program. Participants visited the main tourist sites of the city of Ryazan and the Ryazan region. This is the Memorial Museum-Estate of Ivan Petrovich Pavlov a famous physiologist and the first Russian Nobel Prize laureate, the Museum of the History of Airborne Forces and the State MuseumReserve in the homeland of the Russian poet S.A. Yesenina in the village of Konstantinov. 94 Ecological and patriotic expedition in the Republic of Belarus In 2019, with the support of partners represented by Remmontazh LLC and ANO EPI, a trip of Kaluga schoolchildren to the Republic of Belarus took place. Participants of the trip are employees of Remmontazh LLC and ANO EPI, as well as 5 representatives of the Kremen School of the Medynsky District of the Kaluga Region. The participants took part in the work of the regional ecological mobile camp “Expedition” and the inter-regional ecological and patriotic expedition “Polesie Breakthrough”, which was The guys lived in tents. They themselves cooked their own food at the stake. We made dedicated to the 75th pedestrian crossings between the three base sites with a total length of more than 70 kilometers. As anniversary of the liberation part of the educational, educational and educational work, radial exits from places of deployment, the of Belarus from Nazi length of which was about 60 kilometers, were also carried out. 95 invaders. Cooperation with the Union of Volunteers of Russia Cooperating with the All-Russian public organization “Union of Volunteers of Russia” and its regional branch in the Kaluga Region, Remmontazh LLC continues to actively develop corporate volunteering in the company on environmental education and nature conservation, as well as patriotic education. As corporate volunteers, employees of Remmontazh LLC in 2019 took part in forest planting, arrangement of container sites, educational programs, landscaping and cleaning of military graves. Military Grave Cleaning Since 2017, corporate volunteers have been patronizing a military burial place in the city of Kirov, located on Krasny Bor street. Almost every year they clean up unauthorized piles of rubbish here. On April 30, 2019, activists of the Union of Volunteers of Russia from Remmontazh LLC, in preparation for holding an “Lay a Flower” campaign with children, visited a mass grave and found that an unauthorized dump was again formed near the fence. A meter from the fence a pile of garbage was piled up, consisting of plastic bottles, old wreaths, artificial flowers, needles and branches. The landfill was liquidated by corporate volunteers. Old wreaths and other garbage were collected and disposed of, and a compost pile of needles and branches was distributed over the adjacent territory. “I would like to hope that the order brought here will be preserved for a long time, and the military cemetery will no longer become, to our universal shame, once again a place for an unauthorized dump. Let’s not create a compost heap of organic matter near the fence, and dispose of plastic and other household waste properly, ”said volunteers through the network edition of the Provincial Feuilleton Foma METELKIN to everyone who conducts community work days at military graves. 96 Combining ecology and patriotic education In its activities, LLC “Remmontazh” combines concern for the environment and patriotic education. In 2019, corporate volunteers of Remmontazh LLC took patronage over another military burial place. This is a mass grave in the village of Pupovo, Tyagayevsky rural settlement of the Kirov region, where the pilots who died during the Great Patriotic War are buried. On the eve of Victory Day, corporate volunteers of Remmontazh LLC, together with ANO EPI and activists of the Kaluga regional branch of the Union of Volunteers of Russia, held an action here to improve the mass grave. At the grave of fallen soldiers, activists installed a new fence made by the forces of Remmontazh LLC. Red stars became the decoration of the fence. Volunteers also poured the area around the burial site and leveled it. In addition, they laid a grave hill and leveled a sagging monument. The landlords did not disregard the memorial plate, which was once brought by relatives of military engineer Vladimir Mikhailovich Spiridonov in honor of his father and two of his associates. For many years she stood simply leaning against a commemorative stele. So, a special stand was made for her. The director of Remmontazh LLC Radik Zakiryanov thanked his colleagues for responding to an offer to participate in the improvement of the burial. “Remembering the feat of the defenders of the Fatherland and caring for memorable places is our holy duty,” said Radik Ahnafovich. He also said thanks to the Ecological and Patriotic Initiative organization, which is an electronic memory card for the native Kaluga region. “Our friends from ANO EPI helped us touch the military history of the Kirov region and get to know it better,” the businessman emphasized. 97 Co-organizers of a nonprofit organization The director of Remmontazh LLC Radik Zakiryanov is a co-founder of the NGO Environmental and Patriotic Initiative. Since 2017, Remmontazh LLC and ANO EPI have been establishing close partnerships in the field of environmental education of young people and the involvement of the younger generation in environmental activities, as well as patriotic education. As you can see from the report, together LLC Remmontazh and ANO EPI did a lot of good deeds in 2019. The joint activity received public recognition and was awarded various awards. The result of fruitful cooperation was a high appreciation of the work of ANO “EPI” by the Ministry of Natural Resources and Ecology of the Kaluga Region. In the competition “Eco-Organization 2019”, ANO “EPI” took 1st place in the nomination “For Environmental Education of the Population” and was awarded a diploma of the “green” department. 98 In 2019, ANO “EPI” assisted in In 2019 ANO “EPI” assisted in In 2019 ANO “EPI” took part in organizing a rally for juniors from the organizing the 50th district sports and the XIII International Exhibition-Fair Kaluga Region, which took place in the tourist rally among enterprises and “Peace and Clear” and in the first Kirov region and gathered 6 teams. For organizations of all forms of festival “Kaluga Family”, presenting its active work on military-patriotic education ownership, which took place in the environmental and educational projects and attention to the interests of youth, the Lyudinovsky district and gathered 14 at the event. For active support and director of the Educational-methodical teams (about 300 participants). For assistance in organizing and conducting center for military-patriotic education and cooperation and assistance, the head of these events, Uzorochye handed the preparation of citizens for military service, the administration of the Lyudinovsky Letter of Appreciation to ANO EPI. the Autonomous Non-profit Organization district handed the ANO “EPI” a letter presented EPO with a Letter of of thanks. Appreciation. 99 In 2019, in the Kaluga Region, under the leadership of the director of the EPO ANO Mikhail Chuprinin, a regional stage of the In 2019, ANO EPI co-organized the National Children and Youth Competition of Interregional Ecological Forum “For Order on the Poetry and Songwriters “Talent Warming with Planet!”, Which took place in the Ryazan Region. Good” was organized and held. For assistance Director of ANO “EPI” Mikhail Chuprinin took an provided in the implementation of the project, M, active part in this forum. He received a certificate B. Chuprinin was awarded a letter of thanks from of participation in this significant event. the Public Chamber of the Russian Federation. The award took place in Moscow at a ceremony to summarize the results of the competition. 100 In 2019, ANO “EPI” took part in the International Competition Project of the Fund named after Vernadsky “Ecological culture. Peace and harmony. ” ANO “EPI” submitted to the competition the implemented project “Garbage as a work of art”, which at one time received support from the Presidential Grants Fund. The project coordinator was an employee of LLC Remmontazh, corporate volunteer Barkova Oksana Bogdanovna. In the International Competition Fund them. Vernadsky project ANO EPI was awarded the Silver Certificate in the category Environmental Education and Training In 2019, the director of ANO “EPI” M.V. Chuprinin received the certificate of a public environmental inspector from the Federal Service for Environmental Management in the Kaluga Region. 101 On June 6, 2019, within the framework of events dedicated to the celebration of World Environment Day and the All-Russian Ecologist Day, the renewed Honor Board was opened at the Ministry of Natural Resources and Ecology of the Kaluga Region. Industry experts, oversight experts, public authorities, educators, as well as employees of institutions and representatives of public organizations, who made a significant contribution to the development of the field of nature conservation, nature management and environmental education, were listed on the Board of Honor. Traditionally, 16 people were awarded recognition of merits in this difficult activity from a large list of candidates. Among them was the director of the NGO Environmental and Patriotic Initiative Chuprinin Mikhail Vladimirovich. It is presented on the Board of Honor of the relevant ministry for the work carried out on environmental education of children and youth. 102 Industrial environmental control The company's objectives are to ensure openness, security, resilience and sustainability of cities and towns; ensuring the availability and rational use of water resources and sanitation for all; protection, restoration of terrestrial ecosystems and promotion of their rational use. To increase the environmental sustainability of the city, it is necessary to improve air quality and reduce waste and increase the area of green areas. The company's environmental policy is aimed at reducing the negative impact on the nature of the waste generated during the life of the population. To achieve these goals, Remmontazh LLC monitors and analyzes the impact of the MSW landfill on the environment. Air pollution control Production control of chemical pollution of the atmosphere is divided into two types: control directly at emission sources; control of the content of harmful substances in the air at the border of the sanitary protection zone. The main tasks of production control of emission sources is to assess the qualitative and quantitative composition of emissions directly at emission sources. A drawing of a participant in a children's competition held with the support of Remmontazh 103 The main sources of air pollution at the landfill are the territory of the landfill work cards; vehicles transporting waste; vehicles operating in the landfill. Landfill deposits are gas generating facilities that pollute atmospheric and subsoil air with biogas. The composition of the biogas generated at the landfill depends on a number of factors, such as the stage of the decomposition process, the composition of the waste, the storage height, compaction conditions, etc. Measurements, processing of observation results and assessment of air pollution are carried out in accordance with GOST 17.2.3.01, GOST 17.2.1.03, GOST 17.2.4.02, GOST 17.2.6.02 in accordance with the regulatory, methodological and instructional documents of the Federal Service for Hydrometeorology and Environmental Monitoring and the Federal Service on supervision in the field of consumer protection and human well-being (Rospotrebnadzor) and GN 2.1.6 1338-03. Assessment of air pollution is carried out separately for each substance and each combination of substances in the summing unidirectional harmful effects. The degree of air pollution is determined by the frequency of exceeding the results of measurements at the SPZ of the content of harmful components at the average daily maximum permissible concentration (MPCSS), taking into account the hazard class, the total biological effect of air pollution at a certain frequency of excess (MPCSS). A drawing of a participant in a children's competition held with the support of Remmontazh 104 With the predominance of anaerobic processes, the main components of biological gas that pose a threat to environmental well-being are methane (CH4) and carbon dioxide (CO2). The most important impurities may be hydrogen (H2), hydrogen sulfide (H2S), and other compounds. In this regard, when using the landfill territories, a number of possible dangerous phenomena should be taken into account, such as: explosive fire situations; oxygen deficiency; toxicological adverse conditions; unpleasant odors; oppression of vegetation. Laboratory control of atmospheric air quality is carried out under agreements with the Center for Laboratory Analysis and Technical Measurement in the Central Federal District, the Center for Hygiene and Epidemiology in the Kaluga Region in the Kirov Region. As a result of studies of atmospheric air, no excesses were found. Therefore, the MSW landfill does not adversely affect atmospheric air. Contamination of water bodies On the territory of the MSW landfill, near the village of Zimnitsa, organized discharge of wastewater into surface water bodies is not carried out. Pollution of water bodies can occur as a result of plane flushing of pollutants along with storm and melt water. Thus, in the framework of industrial and environmental control, quality control of surface waters of the river Bolva and p. Squeeze relative to background sections on rivers where there is no influence of the polygon on them below the polygon body, above the polygon body. A drawing of a participant in a children's competition held with the support of Remmontazh LLC. 105 Monitoring of natural waters is carried out 2 times a year during the peak phases of the hydrological regime: spring flood, autumn low-water or floods. Water sampling, necessary preservation, storage and transportation are carried out in accordance with the requirements of GOST 31861-2012 ( Water. General requirements for sampling ). “Remmontazh” LLC, while carrying out activities at the leased landfill of MSW, does not carry out organized discharge of wastewater into underground aquifers The source of pollution of the underground aquifers can be filtration water, leaked through the body of the landfill and contaminated with hazardous substances. Thus, production and environmental monitoring of groundwater pollution is carried out by correlating the quality of water in the background and control wells. The organization of a network of background and observation wells in accordance with regulatory documents is envisaged by sections. The location of the site is selected taking into account the main direction of groundwater flow. The design of the wells protects the groundwater from accidental contamination and is convenient for sampling water. Hydrochemical observations are carried out 2 times a year (spring, autumn) to determine seasonal changes in the quality of groundwater, filtration water and the thickness of the contaminated soil layer in the study area. A drawing of a participant in a children's competition held with the support of Remmontazh 106 Laboratory quality control of surface and groundwater is carried out under agreements with the Center for Laboratory Analysis and Technical Measurements in the Central Federal District, the Center for Hygiene and Epidemiology in the Kaluga Region in the Kirov Region. The MSW landfill does not have a negative effect on water bodies, since as a result of the research, water samples comply with the requirements of Sanitary Regulations and Rules, therefore, we act within the framework of environmental legislation. Soil pollution control Soil testing during environmental surveys is carried out to ecotoxicological assessment of the adjacent territory to the landfill, as a component of the environment that can accumulate significant A drawing of a participant in a children's competition held with the support of Remmontazh amounts of pollutants and have a direct impact on the health status of the population. Sampling is carried out in accordance with GOST 17.4.3.01, GOST 17.4.4.02-84 and GOST 28168. Testing is recommended to be performed from the surface layer using the envelope method (mixed sample on an area of 20-25 m2) to a depth of 0.0-0.9 m Assessment of the level of chemical pollution with heavy metals and arsenic of soils, industrial soils and bottom sediments is estimated by the total indicator of chemical pollution (Zc), which is an indicator of adverse effects on public health. In the absence of actual data on the regional background content of controlled chemical elements in the soil, reference materials are allowed. Assessment of the level of chemical pollution of soils and soils is determined in accordance with SanPiN 2.1.7.1287. Laboratory control of the soil is carried out under agreements with the Center for Laboratory Analysis and Technical Measurements in the Central Federal District, the Center for Hygiene and Epidemiology in the Kaluga Region in the Kirov Region. As a result of soil research, no negative influence of the MSW landfill on soil quality was revealed. 107 A drawing of a participant in a children's competition held with the support of Remmontazh Noise pollution control During the operation of the landfill, garbage trucks, tractors work all this creates a certain noise load on people who are at the landfill and living nearby. In this regard, it is planned to measure equivalent sound levels and sound power levels at the border of the landfill and SPZ. Monitoring of noise pollution is carried out in the area of unloading of garbage trucks and waste disposal in accordance with GOST 27409-97, ECE ONN rules No. 48-03, add. 1-3, SN 2.2.4 / 2.1.8.562-96, GOST R ISO 9612-2013, Sanitary rules on occupational health of car drivers No. 4616-88 and at the border of the sanitary protection zone. Laboratory monitoring of noise pollution is carried out under contracts with the Center for Hygiene and Epidemiology in the Kaluga Region in the Kirov District. At the MSW landfill, equivalent sound levels and sound power levels are measured at the landfill and SPZ boundary. As a result of the measurements, the sound levels meet the requirements. 108 Radiation pollution control Assessment of the radiation situation is carried out as part of environmental monitoring, since the storage of waste at landfills does not exclude situations associated with the accidental ingestion or deliberate disposal of radioactive substances in industrial soil, representing a radioecological hazard. Also, in order to ensure radiation safety of personnel carrying out waste disposal operations, it is necessary to carry out a radiation survey of technogenic soils and the adjacent territory during their implementation. Radiation survey of landfill soil is carried out in order to fulfill the requirements of SP 2.6.1.758 p.p. 5.1.-5.3 (NRB-2010) in terms of limiting the exposure of the population to technogenic and natural sources of ionizing radiation. Laboratory radiation monitoring is carried out under contracts with the Center for Hygiene and Epidemiology in the Kaluga Region in the Lyudinovsky District. As a result of research, the gamma radiation DER values in the area are within the acceptable level. No surface radiation anomalies were found in the territory. The investigated soil samples meet the requirements. A drawing of a participant in a children's competition held with the support of Remmontazh 109 6. ANTI-CORRUPTION Remmontazh LLC follows the principles of the UN Global Compact aimed at combating corruption. Principle No. 10: “Businesses must counter corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery.” The anti-corruption policy of The main circle of persons covered by the Remmontazh LLC is a set of interrelated policy are employees of the company who are in measures aimed at the prevention and labor relations with it, as well as other suppression of corruption offenses in the individuals, individuals and (or) legal entities, activities of the company. with whom the company enters into other contractual relations. The organization “Remmontazh” LLC has the Regulation on anti-corruption policy. The Conflict of Interest Statement is an internal document of Remmontazh LLC, which establishes the procedure for identifying and resolving conflicts of interest arising from employees in the course of their employment. The Regulation applies to all employees of the enterprise, regardless of the level of the position. Interested parties are understood as the manager and employees acting on the basis of an employment contract or civil law contract. A conflict of interest is understood as a situation in which the personal interest of the persons indicated in the regulation affects or may affect the performance of their professional duties and (or) entails a conflict between such personal interest and the legitimate interests of the Company, or the threat of a conflict that could lead to harming the legitimate interests of the enterprise. The personal interest of the persons specified in the Regulation is understood as material or other interest, which affects or may affect the ensuring of the rights and legitimate interests of the Company. 110 The basis of the work on conflict of interest management is the following principles: the obligation to disclose -confidentiality of the process of -protection of the employee from information about a real or potential disclosing information about a conflict of prosecution in connection with a report of a conflict of interest, interest and the process of its settlement, conflict of interest that was timely -individual consideration and -observance of the balance of disclosed by the employee and resolved assessment of reputational risks for the interests of the enterprise and the employee (prevented) by the enterprise. enterprise in identifying each conflict of when resolving a conflict of interest, interest and its settlement, In building transparent relations with customers and partners, Remmontazh LLC includes obligatory mutual anti-corruption obligations in its agreements, as well as obligations to carry out activities in accordance with the principles of environmental protection (focus on the use of resource-saving technologies, comply with applicable requirements for production waste and consumption, take measures aimed at increasing the recycling of materials). A drawing of a participant in a children's competition held with the support of Remmontazh 111 Implementation of the anti-corruption policy of the company: Monitoring of the current corruption factors in them and legislation of the Russian eliminate them. Federation and the Kaluga Updating information on region in the field of antithe stands in the office building corruption. and on the official website of the organization. Analysis of existing local regulations for compliance with Updating information on the requirements of current the organization’s activities legislation and improvement of related to the implementation of regulatory support in the field targets, procurement, reporting of anti-corruption. on the UN Global Compact. Information about this is open A drawing of a participant in a children's competition held with the support of Remmontazh Implementation and and posted on the Internet. monitoring of the prevention and combating implementation of the approved When hiring new corruption Representatives of the Regulation on anti-corruption employees, they get acquainted company responsible for the policy. with the Regulation on the antiLegal education of prevention of corruption corruption policy, which employees by familiarizing offenses participate in seminars Legal examination of defines anti-corruption behavior themselves with the provisions on anti-corruption, as well as in draft regulatory acts of the in the performance of labor of the current legislation of the seminars on public procurement organization in order to identify duties, and other local Russian Federation in the field and the prevention of corruption regulations governing the of combating corruption. in procurement. 112 IMPORTANT!!! During the reporting period no conflicts of interest have been identified, appeals by non-compliance Anti-Corruption Policy Provisions not reported facts of corruption offenses in company activities not installed. A drawing of a participant in a children's competition held with the support of Remmontazh World and domestic experience shows that the application of administrative and legal measures to combat and combat corruption is insufficient. Corruption begins to lose ground when the impact of the law begins to be reinforced by moral condemnation of those who seek to benefit from their official position. Understanding this, Remmontazh LLC turned its vector of active struggle and comprehensive anti-corruption efforts to the ethical side of the issue. In 2019, the company decided to develop and implement a code of anti-corruption ethics, which will be aimed primarily at creating a culture of intolerance to corruption among company employees, contractors and other interested parties. 113 7. CONCLUSION Achievements of the sustainable development policy A drawing of a participant in a children's competition held with the support of Remmontazh LLC. implemented by LLC Remmontazh are evident. Remmontazh LLC has done a lot to minimize its environmental impact, improve labor protection and safety, and promote responsible consumption. It is worth noting that the company’s team made every effort so that residents of the Kaluga region both adults and children would be able to acquire new knowledge and skills to protect and improve the environment, as well as the opportunity to show their attitude to environmental problems and take responsibility by their decision. The team of Remmontazh LLC does not intend to stop at what has been achieved and is ready to move forward towards the green future together with friends and partners. 114
