ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 1 Annual Integrated REPORT 2019 2 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 CONTENT 4 Message from the CEO 6 2019 in numbers 7 Company profile 9 Our business 21 Customer experience 25 Corporate governance and board of directors 38 Financial outlook ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 3 44 Sustainability 53 Employee wellbeing 63 Environmental concern 74 Financial performance 142 Memory parameters 143 GRI content index 152 Verification letter 153 Contact information 4 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 The steps taken in 2019 played a key Our aim with this separation is role in bolstering our capital structure to increase profitability, align our and consolidating our leadership as services with industry trends and an Information and Communications carry on improving our financial Technology (ICT) managed services position. It also provides us with the provider for government entities and possibility of demonstrating the value companies in our country, and of optic of our assets and the potential for fiber connectivity services for national growth, which is why we have initiated and international carriers. a competitive process to attract and analyze investment proposals In 2019 we launched the planning and to maximize the value of both the implementation of the definitions we infrastructure unit and the Company. MESSAGE need to operate under two specialized business units: the service unit and Axtel’s financial results in 2019 FROM the infrastructure unit. remained positive despite the decline in the country’s economic activity. Our THE CEO The infrastructure unit participates in the market as a neutral carrier and provides connectivity services based operating cash flow was up 7% thanks largely to the implementation of business process automation projects. on our fiber network to wholesale customers, including mobile carriers, Our financial position was reflected data center operators, national and by the stable prospect rating issued international fixed carriers, as well by the ratings agencies Fitch, Moody’s as internet-based video and social and Standard and Poor’s. network providers. It is through this unit that we will cater for growing In 2019 we concluded a strategic demand for data from streaming, agreement under which Equinix broadband, the internet of things and acquired the operations and assets of deployment of the 4G network and three Axtel data centers for USD $175 eventually 5G, among other things. million. This alliance will substantially The infrastructure unit is becoming strengthen Alestra’s proposed ICT Mexico’s biggest neutral infrastructure hybrid cloud and managed services operator boasting 40,600 kilometers in solutions. The net resources obtained length. from this sale will be used to reduce debt and other liabilities in the The service unit continues to amount of approximately USD $157 operate under the Alestra brand as million. a technological partner driving the digitalization of more than 18,000 In addition, in 2019 we successfully business and government customers, concluded mass sales segment who we attend with the most advanced divestment which began in December and complete ICT managed solutions 2018 with the sale of most of the portfolio, integrating and managing business. networks, clouds, cybersecurity perimeters and systems under the The sale of towers in 2017, the mass highest services and quality services. sales segment divestment and the ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 5 agreement on the three data centers Enabler (MVNE) in the market thereby In 2020 we expect better market brought in more than USD $530 finalizing implementation of the first conditions for Alestra, our service million with attractive valuation Mobile Virtual Network Operator unit, with a gradual recovery of multiples. The resources were used (MVNO) customer. economic activity in the business to strengthen our financial structure, and government sectors. We also affording us the flexibility to carry At the same time, 2019 witnessed hope that constant and growing on creating value for our customers, the successful conclusion of the demand for connectivity translates stakeholders, employees and fourth generation of startups in into positive performance for our community. NAVE, with the participation of eight infrastructure unit. entrepreneurs from Canada, Mexico, In line with our differentiated digital the US and Argentina with technology On behalf of the Board of Directors, innovation proposal, in 2019 we in the fields of Artificial Intelligence, I thank you for the trust and support carried on driving internal initiatives the Internet of Things, Collaboration, you have given us. We would also to transform our business processes Cloud, Big Data and Cybersecurity. like to thank our customers and and the working culture of our The aim of this initiative is to formalize suppliers, as well as the financial employees. Through the Axtel Digital commercial alliances and new community for their contribution to Innovation Office, we worked to product co-creation schemes. these results, and, of course, also our automate business processes giving 4,600 employees for their dedication rise to operating efficiencies with We celebrated the tenth anniversary of to service and day-to-day efforts. positive results for the company’s our Alestra Fest technology tour, the cash flow. most important ICT digital innovation event in Mexico. In 2019, the event In 2019 we increased our presence in was attended by 12 of the biggest key cities by implementing Ethernet technology manufacturers in the data service coverage in nine cities, world with whom we presented over bringing the total to 70, as well as a 50 advanced Cloud, Collaboration, local service in another city, which Cybersecurity and Managed Network ROLANDO ZUBIRÁN SHETLER took the total to 60 by the end of solutions, among other things. Chief Executive Officer the year. In addition, 21 industrial parks and 89 business centers were In 2019, the first generation of 163 San Pedro Garza García, N.L., Mexico equipped with optic fiber. employees graduated from the February 25, 2020. Cybersecurity and Cloud Solutions Furthermore, our dedicated diploma program of UniAlestra, the connectivity services were extended online learning center for developing to the world’s most important clouds skills for the company’s Digital to include Oracle Cloud and Google, Transformation. which joined the existing clouds of AWS and Azure to create the biggest For the ninth year running we portfolio of public cloud connectivity. reaffirmed our commitment to the United Nations Global Compact and, As part of our mobility strategy, we for the twelfth year in a row, received strengthened strategic alliances the Socially Responsible Company with partners, freeing up cellular award. We have also been part of network-based Wireless Business the Mexican Stock Exchange’s (BMV) Connectivity solutions, as well as Sustainable Consumer Price Index launching the Mobile Virtual Network since 2013. 6 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 2019 IN NUMBERS MXP $12,784 40,600 km million of optic fiber network in revenue 15% of the energy we use for our operations comes from clean sources MXP $4,466 20 million hours on average of training per in Operating Cash Flow [Flow]* employee *Operating Cash Flow [EBITDA]: operating profits plus depreciation and amortizations. NOTE: amounts in this annual report are given in Mexican pesos (MXP $) and nominal dollars (USD $) except as otherwise specified. ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 7 8 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 Company The Information and Communications Technology (ICT) industry we are part data centers, acquired the operations and assets of three Axtel data centers. profile of has dramatically transformed the This deal enabled us to significantly global economy over the last two strengthen our ICT managed services decades, consolidating its standing and hybrid cloud offerings which we as one of the primary catalysts in the market through Alestra. Axtel is a company of manufacturing, education, health, ALFA, which holds 52.8% security and leisure sectors. Our awareness of the challenges facing of its equity. ALFA is a us in the market led us to reorganize At Axtel we have accompanied our company into two business units: Mexican consortium that our customers in their evolution an ICT managed services unit that will runs a diverse business towards digital innovation within their continue to operate in the market with portfolio comprised by the organizations. Today we are leading the Alestra solutions portfolio, and an providers of ICT managed services for infrastructure unit that will serve both subsidiaries Alpek, Sigma, businesses and government agencies, the services unit and other operators Nemak and Newpek. ALFA and we also provide infrastructure as a neutral operator. is present in 28 countries solutions for national and international carriers. As a result of the comprehensive in the Americas, Europe work we perform as a company, which and Asia and has 135 We achieve this by working in line with includes environmental, social and production plants. best practices in the fields of corporate governance factors in our business governance, social matters and the strategy, in 2019 we featured among environment, backed by the talent, the 30 companies that comprise the preparation and professionalism of Mexican Stock Exchange’s Sustainable our employees and with the largest Consumer Price Index for the seventh network of technology manufacturing year running. partners in the world. Since the merger of Alestra and Axtel in 2016, we have launched key strategic initiatives to empower our company’s leadership in the business and government market, as well as to strengthen our financial structure. After finalizing the sale of most of the mass fiber business in 2018, the following year we completed our divestment from this segment. We also concluded a strategic agreement under which Equinix Inc., the global leader in ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 9 OUR BUSINESS We have rearranged the way we offer our services into two business units: infrastructure and services. This change will enable us to attend our key markets in a differentiated manner, providing the best experience and service, and demonstrating the value of our assets and their growth potential. 10 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 Infrastructure Services Telecommunications IT Last mile access Collaboration System integration IP transit Unified Videoconference Business continuity System Communications (DRP) integration Managed networks Radio-electric Cloud services spectrum VPN Ethernet LAN Hybrid cloud Infrastructure Fiber to the tower and managed and software applications services SDWAN WiFi Cybersecurity Fiber (dark and illuminated) Standard services Perimeter Internal network Fiber to data center Data and Voice internet Wholesalers / Carriers (including Business and business unit, Alestra) government market ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 11 Business Unit This unit provides connectivity services based on our spectrum Infrastructure and fiber network to make the most of the opportunities presented by growing demand for data from wholesale customers, including The infrastructure mobile carriers, data center operators, business unit is becoming internet-based streaming and social Mexico’s biggest neutral network providers and national and international fixed carriers. infrastructure operator, housing 40,600 km of optic In line with vertical trends in the fiber, including 22,000 km industry and in order to strengthen Axtel’s solutions, in October we of transport network and signed an agreement with the global 18,600 km of metropolitan infrastructure and data center rings. company Equinix Inc., to fortify our ICT and Cloud solution offerings. In early 2020 we signed this agreement under which Equinix acquired the operations and assets of three of our data centers, two in Queretaro and one in Monterrey. We stepped up our presence in key cities as part of our commitment to provide services to the greatest possible number of companies in the country this year by extending the coverage of our Ethernet data services to nine cities, bringing the total to 70 cities, and local service to one more city, which took the total to 60. In addition, 21 industrial parks and 89 business centers were equipped with optic fiber in order to promote the use of ICT among Mexican companies. 12 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 Own network (10,400 km long distance + 18,600 km metropolitan network) Indefeasible Right of Use (IRU) (11,600 km) Leased long distance transmission capacity (1,000 km) Microwaves for last mile connectivity and 40,600 1,055 metropolitan coverage km of optic fiber sites throughout the 3.5, 7, 10.5, 15, 23 and 38 GHz network country for digital radio Business segment and fiber coverage 60 22,000 km of transport [LD] cities with local service 70 18,600 cities with Ethernet Data services km of metropolitan network ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 13 Business Unit connectivity offerings by including CYBERSECURITY Oracle Cloud and Google, which means Services our Alestra business unit currently has the biggest public Cloud connectivity (Alestra) SYSTEM portfolio. INTEGRATION We provide colocation solutions through This business unit includes world class Data Centers designed to five strategic services the highest standards. They are located CLOUD families that we offer to our in Mexico’s most important cities: business and government Monterrey, Queretaro, Guadalajara and Mexico City. market customers. This year our IT solutions delivery process obtained level 3 CMMI (Capability Maturity Model Integration) certification, with the distinction of being the only IT and Communications provider in Mexico with this certification. Moreover, in our quest Our strategy focuses on providing to be at the cutting edge, we launched IT solutions and managed telecom Software Defined WAN [SD-WAN] on services to business and government the market with new technologies from customers with solid, reliable and Cisco and the new generation of wireless secure service offerings operating networks [WiFi 6]. under the best procedures. At the same time, in 2019 we set up the In addition to our connectivity and voice Virtual Cybersecurity Unit which pools products to assist our customers in all our human resources and redefines their digital transformation process, processes and tools to offer managed we also offer solutions through five cybersecurity service evolution. We also strategic services families: added to this portfolio a new generation antivirus solution, data correlators, and solutions in public Clouds. MANAGED NETWORKS This year we assisted our customers in their migration to the Cloud by moving ahead with work to develop Microsoft COLLABORATION Azure and AWS capabilities, incorporating new features such as backups, collaboration and certain cybersecurity solutions. In addition, we extended 14 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 In order to strengthen our customersupplier communication channels, as we have been doing for over 10 years, we have the Sperto Centers, the most advanced experience centers in Latin America, where we provide demonstrations for visitors to learn about our hi-tech services firsthand. In 2019 we gave more than 1,200 talks and demonstrations to over 2,000 people from 500 companies at these centers in Monterrey, Mexico City and Queretaro. THE SPERTO CENTERS HAVE OBTAINED WORLDWIDE ACCLAIM FROM THE ASSOCIATION OF BRIEFING PROGRAM MANAGERS. Furthermore, this year we began the construction of a new Sperto Center in the city of Cancun, which will start operations in the first quarter of 2020, and launched our Sperto App which sends customized messages to the cellphones of visitors depending on their location inside the Sperto Center. ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 15 Today we offer a solid, reliable and secure range of ICT solutions to Over the last three years revenue support different sectors in their from the business segment has digital transformation aimed at increased mainly due to the BUSINESS MARKET boosting productivity and efficiency in commercialization of managed REVENUE their day-to-day processes. networks and IT solutions. (millions of Mexican pesos) The evolution of today’s markets, along with trends that have changed the context of ICTs, have ALESTRA FEST played an important role in the With our ten years’ experience in $10,625 corporate innovation and digital $10,313 swift and constant development of technology. In view of this growth transformation, we stage Mexico’s $9,945 and the uncertainty in the economy, biggest technology tour bringing $9,216 the outlook reveals the vital together decision makers with the presence of technology to face up to most state-of-the-art display of digital contemporary challenges. innovation solutions in the market: 2016 2017 2018 2019 Alestra FEST. Thanks to our extensive family of ICT services, we can offer products and In 2019 more than 6,000 people services to different customers with attended the forum in the cities of specific needs, whom we have divided into two markets: the business Tijuana, Mexico City, Guadalajara, market and the government market. Monterrey and Queretaro where it was held. These are the locations where we have identified significant business sector growth. Business GOVERNMENT MARKET REVENUE market This edition enjoyed the participation of 12 of the world’s biggest technology (millions of Mexican pesos) manufacturers who are paving the We are working on the path towards digital transformation by companies way for the digital transformation of to enable them to make the most of companies in Mexico. new business opportunities through technology. We are a technological $2,571 partner offering Mexican $2,475 organizations a solid portfolio to $2,383 $2,159 invigorate their processes by using managed network, collaboration, 2016 2017 2018 2019 cybersecurity, system integration and Cloud tools. 16 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 ANNUAL DIGITAL INNOVATOR This year we are working together University digitalization FORUM with the government on a number of Digital collaboration and content In 2019 we held the first business projects in line with public austerity platforms for autonomous and event to turn the transformation of policies. The implementation of technological universities to speed organizations through the adoption each project entailed savings for the up digital inclusion for students and of the most advanced ICT solutions in government of between 15 and 28% of teaching staff alike. the market into a reality, along with their allocated budget. MultiCloud the implementation of Corporate Hybrid Cloud Platform aimed at Innovation to drive the creation of Our strategy for the federal improving transactions, processing, new business horizons. The event government is centered on retaining cybersecurity and availability of was attended by 20 leaders from current customers and starting to information generated by the different companies and by strategic work with new departments through ministries of administration, finance, technological partners. differentiation in digital transformation public works and land registry. solutions and tailored proposals focused on modernizing federal System integration management, including data centers, Tailored solutions integrating storage processing, virtualization, connectivity, collaboration, databases, the consolidation of cybersecurity, IT and mobility. Government applications, monitoring and market administration, as well as cybersecurity Smart cities Internet of things solutions focused solutions. on monitoring variables in the We are aware of the government environment, traffic, public lighting, sector’s huge potential for growth, Meanwhile, in the state and municipal security and broadband internet which is why we have worked to provide government segment, we are access to improve the public’s the most competitive and efficient developing a portfolio of value-added experience. service to each level of government, turnkey solutions, including: offering solutions to help them improve their communication experience. Single window System for performing all Mexico’s National Development Plan procedures in a single portal, with currently focuses on improving the the aim of improving the public’s operational quality of the value chain experience and increasing efficiency towards digital transformation. And it in internal processes and collection. is because of this that we have devised Governance a strategy to become strategic allies in Comprehensive public security the management of projects put up for project with smart video security tender in the future. This will enable us and analytical systems, cybernetic to offer the best prices and stand out police, processes, training and for the quality of our solutions. command centers. ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 17 DIGITAL INNOVATION In order to drive our digital transformation, we have started implementing the initiatives set Innovation out in Axtel’s Digital Innovation strategy, achieving benefits such Change is part of our company culture, which is why we are constantly as the following: performing innovation processes to stay at the forefront of the market and offer our customers solutions that rise to the challenges we currently face. The Axtel Innovation Model (Modelo de Inovación Axtel) is the essence of our Increasing sales innovation processes and the culture that defines us. Its purpose is to create force efficiency. value for our customers and employees, as well as in all areas of the company. Streamlining service implementation for AXTEL INNOVATION MODEL our customers. APPROACHES INNOVATION PROCESS RESULTS Automated INTRACONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT ordering. ENTREPRENEURSHIP DIGITAL INNOVATION OPEN DISRUPTIVE INNOVATION Reducing manual INNOVATION inputting through TECHNOLOGICAL ALLIES software robots. CUSTOMER INNOVATIVE CUSTOMERS SERVICE STRATEGIC FORESIGHT DESIGN THINKING LEAN STARTUP AGILE DIGITAL SPACE INNSIGHT Offering employees PHYSICAL SPACE INNOVATION HUB greater self-service CORPORATE ACCELERATOR NAVE through chatbots. TECHNOLOGY LABORATORY AXTEL LABS We are also fostering an internal culture of innovation through the Innsight Stepping up Platform in which our employees put forward ideas for innovation and continuous transactional security. improvement that are assessed by a group of experts to decide which ones will be implemented during the course of the year. 18 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 In 2019, 43% of our registered employees participated in the platform, providing 160 ideas that translated into annualized savings worth $134 million in operating expenses and Capex. RAPID TRANSFORMATION As part of Axtel’s Digital Innovation strategy, in 2019 we made significant efforts to speed up agile transformation within the organization. The strategic initiatives and others of great relevance were enabled to work under the Scrum framework, a work methodology that seeks to deliver value in short periods of time. This effort was complemented with coaching, training tools provided by the newly created Agility Community comprising Technological Innovation and Digital Innovation Office employees. INNOVATION HUB This is an area in the Innovation and Technology Campus of Monterrey (CIT) consisting of two centers: Business Innovation, which promotes creativity, collaboration and generation of ideas, and Technology Innovation, where these ideas are crystallized into prototypes and solutions. ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 19 In 2019 we launched challenges Digitalization is constantly evolving, 6. RWI Synthetics: digital simulator through Hackathons in which so we have evolved the NAVE that uses Artificial Intelligence employees developed applications and accelerator to receive innovative to generate future scenarios for robots to automate and streamline ideas from entrepreneurs every year companies to make strategic repetitive tasks with the aim of in order to create joint value. decisions before investing in a real increasing efficiency in their processes market. and, as a result, productivity. In 2019 we accelerated eight companies from Canada, Mexico, the 7. KEYO: access platform with palm As part of the drive to reduce our United States and Argentina, with scanning to replace keys, radio environmental impact with technology, whom we will generate alliances. frequency identification controls, we launched challenges to support wallets and credit cards. the Paperless campaign, digitizing 1. Zighra: company specialized in 50 forms and eliminating a further anti-fraud solutions that recognizes 8. Vantiq: platform affording real 20. This move enabled us to optimize user behavior when interacting with time viewing of events that affect processes and response times, as well their device. company operations. as minimizing possible errors. 2. Nuve: company that provides antitheft solutions in fuel containers in TECHNOLOGICAL INNOVATION different sectors. In order to amplify the impact on technological innovation initiatives, we 3. Pabis Retail: platform that offered our help to develop co-creation automatically consolidates projects with strategic customers. In transactions performed in various this regard, we developed a computer operation centers to analyze data and viewing platform with artificial make strategic decisions. intelligence for the manufacturing industry capable of detecting defects 4. Apli: recruitment automation in the manufacture of parts. With solution that uses artificial initiatives of this type we seek to intelligence to provide and retain explore future Axtel products and talent. services that will allow us to expand and improve our portfolio. 5. Sirena: commercial communication tool that integrates “NAVE” ACCELERATOR all the company’s contact channels We encourage open innovation through into a management platform by alliances with scaleups3 that help make WhatsApp. new ideas in our strategic evolution possible. 3 Scaleups are legally incorporated companies that have been in operation for more than two years, that may have received investment in the past and whose business model is defined and scalable. 20 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 Certifications Best Practices · ICREA Levels 3, 4 and 5 ISO 9001:2015 · TIA-942: DC Electromechanical ISO 20000-1:2011 Infrastructure In 2019, 138 Axtel ISO 14001 · ITIL employees obtained 237 ISO 27001:2013 · SSAE 18 ISO 22301:2012 certifications in different · PCI Data Security Standard tools and knowhow · FIRST · CMMI SVC/3 from institutions such as ACME, Amazon Web Partner recognitions Services, Avaya, Check · Aspect, Channel Sales Agreement Point, Cisco, EC-Council, · AudioCodes Platinum VAR · Avaya Platinum Partner Fortinet, Huawei, ISACA, · Avaya DevConnect ISO, ITIL, LogRhythm, · AWS Select Consulting Partner Meraki, Microsoft, PMI, · Checkpoint, a Pure Advantage Partner specializing in CCSP solutions Oracle, SCRUM, Six · CISCO, Gold Certified Partner · CISCO, Advanced Collaboration Architecture Specialization Sigma, The Open Group, · CISCO, Advanced Enterprise Networks Architecture Specialization Veeam and VMWare. · CISCO, Advanced Security Architecture Specialization · CISCO, Advanced Data Center Architecture Specialization · CISCO, Cloud Services Reseller · CISCO, Cloud and Managed Services Master · Dell Technologies, Gold solution provider · Fortinet Platinum Partner in Mexico with Managed Services · HPE, Service Provider Silver Partner · Huawei Enterprise Partner VAP · IBM, Business Partner · Microsoft Gold Partner · Microsoft Hosting Partner · Microsoft Gold Cloud Productivity · Oracle Gold Partner · Palo Alto Networks MSSP Innovator · SAP MCaaS Partner · SUSE Cloud Services Provider Agreement · Symantec Platinum Partner · Authorized Trustwave Partner · VEEAM, Pro Partner Silver Reseller ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 21 CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE We are committed to delivering the best experience to our customers, for which purpose we have the support of solid infrastructure as well as properly trained operational and customer service employees. We serve our customers through One Axtel, our unified service channel that allows us to provide the same after-sales experience regardless of the service contracted. To guarantee that this mode of service really meets customer expectations, we conduct satisfaction surveys using the Net Promoter Score (NPS) and Churn4 tools which allow us to follow up on the services provided in order to improve them. Once the comments from these surveys have been analyzed, we make visits to better understand the needs of our customers and to attend to them in a personalized manner. This gave rise to a strategy to make improvements through the digital transformation that was implemented in 2019. 4 Churn is a metric that refers to customer migration, rotation or cancelation over a period of time. 22 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 Working groups were formed to implement six projects to create a positive impact on the Customer Experience and four more on Operational Efficiency. At the same time, we defined the expected behaviors for our employees during their interaction with customers, for which purpose we provided Service Culture-focused training and improved the tools they currently have, as well as the service procedures. SERVICE BEHAVIORS e e ur h iev clos Ac ble a m or me e Be ctiv oa pr h t lis en tab itm Es m m co at Gre Em tit at pa ud th e ize ca List re en fu lly ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 23 In 2019 we recorded TARGETS AND RESULTS OF NPS 2019 an average market rotation of 1.6% per month. 44 44 In the same year we also improved our CORPORATE MEDIUM customer satisfaction 42 42 MARKET ENTERPRISES indicators by two MARKET percent for the corporate market and by the same amount TARGET for the medium-sized company market CUSTOMER SATISFACTION compared to 2018. SURVEY RESULTS In 2019 we set a target satisfaction rate of 84% for incident resolution in the government market. Each month we measure the satisfaction level of a base of 787 customers, 82.9% of which said they were satisfied with the service received from the time the incident was reported until it was resolved. 24 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 SUPPLIERS Having a supply chain aligned with standards of integrity and sustainability ensures that the services we offer arrive on time and with the quality that PROPORTION OF is our hallmark. This is why we ask our EXPENDITURE ALLOCATED suppliers to comply with the Supplier TO SUPPLIERS ACCORDING Selection Policy5 and the Axtel TO THEIR ORIGIN Supplier Code of Ethics. 14% This year we conducted 19,685 transactions with suppliers amounting to more than $3.7 billion. Of this amount, 86% went to Mexican suppliers. Of our 6,710 registered 86% suppliers, 94% are domestic and 6% are international. DOMESTIC Every three months we perform INTERNATIONAL warehouse evaluations of the materials we acquire in which we emphasize the importance of reporting inappropriate behavior by both Axtel employees and our suppliers to the ALFA Transparency Mailbox. In 2019 we didn’t register a single one. 5 You can consult our Supplier Code of Ethics at: https://www.axtelcorp.mx/grupos-de-interes/ ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 25 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND BOARD OF DIRECTORS The success of a company is largely down to its leadership, so one of the best strategies for creating value in our business is by implementing good corporate governance practices in which transparency and trust ensure correct decision-making and, with it, chart the course of our economic, social and environmental strategy. Axtel’s Corporate Governance structure6 is comprised by our policies, procedures and guidelines that act as a guide for delegating the rights and responsibilities of decision makers. Our supreme governing body is the Board of Directors which, along with the Chief Executive Officer, is responsible for creating long-term value for our stakeholders. 6 Find out more about how our Corporate Governance works: https://www.axtelcorp.mx/gobierno-corporativo/ 26 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 The Board is made up of 12 proprietary directors and three alternate directors, BOARD renowned businessmen with a great deal of experience in various industries, as MEETINGS well as extensive knowledge in the field of business. All of them were selected In 2019 the Board of Directors in accordance with the provisions of the Securities Market Law, S.A.B de C.V. met four times with an average (LMV), Axtel’s bylaws, the Code of Ethics, the OECD Code of Principles and Best attendance of 90%. Practices of Corporate Governance and the Principles of the Global Compact. They were appointed and approved at the General Shareholders’ Meeting on In order to guarantee adequate February 26, 2019. management of the Board of Directors’ duties, it receives support Their main duties include the following: from the Audit and Corporate Practices Committee, which is comprised of four independent Monitoring compliance with laws currently in directors. force, including the LMV. In addition to maintaining communication between Defining the company’s economic, social and environmental management and the Board objectives and strategy*. of Directors, this committee’s main duties include making recommendations to the Board on Reviewing accounting policy, financial statements and reporting to the General Shareholders’ Meeting*. matters such as: Selecting the external auditor and Managing, conducting and performing the business setting their fees. of the Company*. Coordinating with the internal audit area. Identifying, managing and mitigating potential internal Studying accounting policy. and external risks. Terms of employment for senior executives and their severance payments, and Appointing and removing the CEO, indicating their powers, duties, working conditions and remuneration. Compensation policy. The remuneration we grant to the Appointing and removing the company’s external auditors. members of the Board of Directors is defined based on a market and internal equity analysis, as well Defining control and internal audit guidelines. as in accordance with our Salary Management Policy. * Shared functions with the CEO. ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 27 CO-CHAIRMEN Álvaro Fernández Garza Tomás Milmo Santos March 27, 1968 November 3, 1964 Director and Co-Chairman of the Board of Directors Director and Co-Chairman of the Board of Directors of Axtel since February 2016. CEO of ALFA, S.A.B. of Axtel since February 2016. He was the company’s de C.V. Chairman of the Board of the Universidad de CEO from 1994 to February 2016, has been a Director Monterrey (UDEM). Member of the Boards of Grupo since 1994 and was Chairman of the Board of Directors Citibanamex, Cydsa, Grupo Aeroportuario del Pacífico from 2003 to February 2016. He is a member of the and Vitro. He holds a Bachelor’s degree in Economics board of directors of CEMEX, the ITESM, and Promotora from the University of Notre Dame, a Master’s degree Ambiental. He is also chairman of the board of Tec in Administration from the ITESM and an MBA from Salud and Alianza Educativa Ciudadana por Nuevo Georgetown University. Leon. He holds a degree in Business Economics from Stanford University. PROPRIETARY DIRECTORS Alejandro Miguel Elizondo Barragán Eduardo Alberto Escalante Castillo October 14, 1953 March 27, 1958 Director of Axtel since February 2016. He is a member Director of Axtel since February 2019. CFO of ALFA, of the Board of Directors of Arca Continental and S.A.B. de C.V. He holds a degree in Electronic and Stiva Group. He holds a degree in Mechanical and Communications Engineering from the ITESM and a Electrical Engineering from the ITESM and an MBA in master’s degree from Stanford University. Administration from Harvard University. Armando Garza Sada Fernando Ángel González Olivieri June 29, 1957 October 2, 1954 Director of Axtel since February 2016. Chairman of the Director of Axtel since February 2016. CEO of CEMEX. Board of Directors of ALFA, S.A.B. de C.V. Chairman of Member of the Boards of Directors of Grupo Cementos the Boards of Directors of Alpek and Nemak. Member de Chihuahua and the Universidad Tec Milenio. He of the Boards of BBVA Mexico, CEMEX, Grupo Lamosa holds a bachelor’s degree and a graduate degree in and Liverpool. Graduated from the Massachusetts Administration from the ITESM. Institute of Technology, with an M.B.A. from Stanford University. 28 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 Patricio Jiménez Barrera Alberto Santos Boesch October 29, 1965 August 26, 1971 Director of Axtel since February 2018. Chairman of Director of Axtel since February 2016. Chairman Abstrix, S.A. de C.V. Member of the Boards of Directors and CEO of Ingenios Santos, S.A. de C.V. Member of of Grupo Tredec, S.A. de C.V. and Jumbocel, S.A. de C.V. the Boards of GRUMA, BBVA Mexico, Interpuerto de He is a Certified Public Accountant graduated from the Monterrey, Comité del Desarrollo del ITESM, Instituto ITESM. Nuevo Amanecer, Renace, Red de Filantropía de Egresados y Amigos del Tec, Committee of the Advisory Council of the Faculty of Political Science and Public Administration of the UANL and Unidos por el Arte contra el Cáncer Infantil (UNAC). He has a degree in International Studies from the UDEM. INDEPENDENT PROPRIETARY DIRECTORS Francisco Garza Egloff Juan Ignacio Garza Herrera September 5, 1954 November 26, 1966 Director of Axtel since February 2016. Member of Director of Axtel since February 2016 CEO of Xignux. the Board of Directors of Arca Continental, Grupo He was President of the COMCE Noreste and has Industrial Saltillo, Grupo AlEn, Alpek, Grupo Financiero been a Board Member of Xignux, Consejo Mexicano de Banregio, Ovnvier, RAGASA and Proeza, as well as Hombres de Negocios (CMHN), BBVA Mexico (Regional the School of Engineering and Sciences of the ITESM, Noreste), UDEM, ICONN, Cleber and of the Instituto the Coca-Cola Foundation, the “Rosa de los Cuatro Nuevo Amanecer, A.B.P. He was President of the Nuevo Vientos” Cultural Center, the Ser y Crecer Foundation, Leon Chamber of the Transformation Industry. He has a President of the UANL Foundation and Caballero de degree in Mechanical Engineering from the ITESM, and San Miguel Arcángel of CAMSVI. Vice President of a Master’s in Administration from the University of San the Confederation of Industrial Chambers of Mexico, Francisco. CONCAMIN. He has a degree in Chemical Engineering from the ITESM, with studies in Senior Management at IPADE. ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 29 Enrique Meyer Guzmán Ricardo Saldívar Escajadillo January 7, 1960 April 21, 1952 Director of Axtel since February 2016. Chairman of the Director of Axtel since February 2016. Private investor. Board and CEO of Grupo CEMIX. Director of UDEM, Member of the Boards of FEMSA, Tecnológico de Bancomer, Banamex, Vinoteca, Silica Desarrollo, Monterrey and Grupo AlEn. Former President and S.A., Fondo Emblem, Neoalimentos, S.A., Beliveo and CEO of The Home Depot Mexico, a position he held for Chairman of the Board of the Club Industrial. He is an eighteen years until June 2017 when he retired. Prior Industrial and Systems Engineer from the ITESM, with to that, he worked in various Grupo ALFA companies a Master’s degree in Business Administration from for nearly 20 years. He has a degree in Mechanical Stanford University. Engineering Administration from the ITESM, with a Master of Science in Systems Engineering from Georgia Tech and a diploma in Senior Management from IPADE. CONSEJEROS SUPLENTES Paulino José Rodríguez Mendívil José Antonio Gonzáles Flores April 21, 1951 May 5, 1970 Alternate director of Axtel since February 2019. Alternate director of Axtel since February 2016. Director of Human Capital of ALFA, S.A.B. de C.V. Executive Vice President of Finance and Administration Member of the Board of Directors of Campofrío Food (CFO) of CEMEX. He holds a degree in Industrial and Group, COPARMEX and the Business Coordination Systems Engineering from the ITESM and an M.B.A. in Board. He is an Industrial and Systems Engineer from Business Administration from Stanford University. the University of the Basque Country, Spain, with a Master’s Degree in Energy Techniques from the same institution. Thomas Lorenzo Milmo Zambrano July 9, 1935 Alternate director of Axtel since February 2018. He was co-founder and Chairman of the Board of Directors of Grupo Javer and Incasa. He was Chairman of the Board of Directors and CEO of Carbonifera San Patricio and Carbón Industrial, as well as a member of the Board of Directors of CEMEX until 1996. 30 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 MANAGERIAL TEAM Our managerial team is comprised of professionals with extensive experience and knowledge in the field of business and Information and Communication Technologies. They are responsible for making decisions as well as for implementing and monitoring processes to ensure the proper functioning of Axtel. Rolando Zubirán Shetler Aged 67 CEO He has been CEO of Axtel, a subsidiary of ALFA, since February 2016. Previously, he was CEO of Alestra, from January 1999 to February 2016. He has more than 30 years’ experience in the Latin American telecommunications market, and has held various managerial positions in Mexico, Brazil and Argentina. He is an Industrial Engineer from the Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México. He has a Master of Science in Operations Research from the University of Southern California and a Ph.D. in Philosophy, with a Specialty in Management, from the Universidad Autónoma de Nuevo León. Carlos Guillermo Buchanan Ortega Aged 60 Executive Director of Human Capital He served as Managing Partner of B&S Consultores and was Director of Human Resources at Alestra. He has held the position of Human Resources Director at Telefónica Movistar, Commercial Banking at Grupo Financiero Bancomer, Bimbo, Black & Decker and Prolec G.E. He was Executive President of ERIAC Capital Humano and is a member of the board. He is a Curriculum Director at UDEM, Director of Employability at Tec Milenio, Member of Grupo de Estudio and Guest Monitor for the D1, D2 and Medex programs at IPADE. He is an experienced speaker and professor at the UDEM, the ITESM and ITESO. He has a degree in Psychology along with a Master’s degree in Organizational Development and Administration from the UDEM, as well as postgraduate degrees from IPADE and Kellogg University. ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 31 Andrés Eduardo Cordovez Ferretto Aged 51 Executive Director Infrastructure and Operations He served as Axtel’s Chief Technology and Operations Officer from October 2013 to January 2016. Prior to that position, he was the Director of Information Technology and Processes. In his 24 years of professional experience he has held numerous executive positions in various national and multinational telecommunications, financial and service companies, with responsibility for different functions such as technology, innovation, operations, customer service and sales. He holds a degree in Computer Systems Engineering from the ITESM and a diploma in Senior Management from IPADE. He has also taken executive development courses at Wharton University, Stanford University and London Business School. Adrián Cuadros Gutiérrez Aged 49 Executive Director Public Sector Accounts He served as Executive Director of IT Solutions (February 2016 to December 2017). He joined Alestra in February 1996, where he served as Engineering Director, Chief Technology Officer, Government Sales Director and IT Services Sales Director. He was also part of AT&T de México and held various positions from July 1993 to January 1996. He is an Electronic and Communications Engineer from the ITESM, with a Master’s Degree in Administration from the same institution. He attended an Executive Program at IPADE, Stanford University and London Business School. In September 2018, he concluded the Program for Administrative Directors at the EGADE Business School. Adrián De Los Santos Escobedo Aged 51 Director of Finance He served as Acting Director of the Finance Office and held the position of Director of Corporate Finance and Investor Relations for Axtel until February 15, 2017. Before joining Axtel in April 2006, he worked at Operadora de Bolsa y Banca Serfin (now Santander Mexico) and Standard Chartered Bank, where he held positions in Institutional and Corporate Banking in the cities of Monterrey, London and New York. He holds a Bachelor’s degree in Business Administration from the ITESM, and a Master’s degree in Finance from the Carroll School of Management at Boston College. 32 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 Bernardo García Reynoso Aged 61 Executive Director of Planning and Development He joined Alfa in 1985 and then Alestra when it was founded in 1996, holding various positions in the areas of Sales, Marketing, Strategic Alliances, Administration and Human Resources. He was Alestra’s CFO for the 7 years prior to the merger, becoming Axtel’s Executive Director of Planning and Development in 2016. He holds an Industrial and Systems Engineering degree from the ITESM, a Master’s degree in International Trade from the University of Monterrey and a Master’s degree in Business Administration from the International Institute for Management Development (IMD) in Lausanne, Switzerland. Ricardo J. Hinojosa González Aged 53 Executive Director of Enterprise He is in charge of the strategy, development of solutions, implementation of alliances, promotion, marketing and profitability of the Alestra brand. He has over 32 years’ experience and has held different executive positions in the areas of Sales, Marketing, Managed Services and Planning. He has a degree in Administrative Computer Systems from the ITESM, with a Master’s in Business Administration with a specialty in Marketing from the University of California at Los Angeles. In addition, he has specialized management studies from IPADE, Wharton University and the Tuck School of Business. Raúl Ortega Ibarra Aged 63 Executive Director: Legal and Regulation He was Director of Government Relations and Legal at Alestra from 1996, where he was also Director of the International Business and Communications Unit from 2001 to 2007. Prior to that, he was Director of Regulatory Affairs for AT&T Corp. in Mexico and previously headed and founded the representative office of Mexican business organizations in Washington, D.C. He graduated from the Universidad Iberoamericana with executive studies in Political Economics and Management from Stanford University. ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 33 MANAGERIAL BENEFITS PACKAGE GOAL AND ALIGNMENT COMPONENT DESCRIPTION WITH STRATEGY Alignment with Meeting social, environmental and Remuneration granted in accordance business strategy economic objectives. with accomplishment of goals by area. Salaries are reviewed each year in accordance with business results, the Base salary Attracting and retaining talent. macroeconomic environment, salary surveys and performance. Complying with the legal framework Fixed remuneration Christmas bonus, vacation bonus and and ensuring competitiveness with (benefits) shopping bonus. respect to the market Rewarding the achievement of individual and group goals and Annual bonus plan in accordance with Variable remuneration strengthening alignment of the accomplishment of operational and the managerial team with the strategic goals. stakeholder interests. Providing patrimonial stability Major medical insurance, life insurance, Social benefits for executives and facing emergency medical insurance and contingencies, retaining talent. periodic medical checkups. Risk management Like all organizations, at Axtel we are exposed to internal and external market, regulatory, infrastructure, technological, environmental and social risks, as well as to external factors in our operation related to national and macroeconomic events. As a result, each year we implement risk management methodologies to avoid any negative repercussions on our performance. This process is led by General Management, with support from strategic areas, to incorporate the risks identified in the annual plan and develop mitigation measures. At the same time, in seeking to ensure that they are always in line with reality, these risks are reviewed by the Board of Directors during its meetings and periodically through the Risk Management Program. 34 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 Operational structure PERCENTAGE SUBSIDIARY COUNTRY HOLDING 2019 Axtel, S.A.B. de C.V. (Controller)(3)(5) Mexico Servicios Axtel, S.A. de C.V. (1) Mexico 100% Alestra Innovación Digital, S. de R.L. de C.V. (3) Mexico 100% Avantel, S. de R.L. de C.V. (“Avantel”) (3)(5) Mexico Axes Data, S.A. de C.V. (1) Mexico 100% Contacto IP, S.A. de C.V. (1) Mexico 100% Instalaciones y Contrataciones, S.A. de C.V. (1) Mexico 100% Servicios Alestra, S.A. de C.V. (1)(5) Mexico 100% Ingeniería de Soluciones Alestra, S.A. de C.V. (1) Mexico 100% Alestra USA, Inc. (2) United States 100% S&C Constructores de Sistemas, S.A. de C.V. Mexico 100% (“S&C”) Alesre Insurance Pte, Ltd.(4) Singapore Estrategias en Tecnología Corporativa, S.A. de Mexico 100% C.V. (“Estratel”) (3) Servicios Alestra TI, S.A. de C.V.(1) Mexico 100% Alestra Procesamiento de Pagos, S.A. de C.V. Mexico 100% Administradora de Centros de Datos México, Mexico 100% S.A. de C.V.(1) Servicios Administrativos de Centro de Datos Mexico 100% México, S.A. de C.V. (3) La Nave del Recuerdo, S.A. de C.V.(6) Mexico 100% Contacto IP FTTH de México, S.A. de C.V. (6) Mexico 100% Alestra Servicios Móviles, S.A. de C.V. (6) Mexico 100% (1) Companies providing management services. (2) Leasing of telecommunications equipment and infrastructure. (3) Telecommunications service provider. (4) Company with no primary operations liquidated in August 2019. (5) At the Extraordinary General Meeting held on February 26, 2019, the shareholders agreed to carry out the merger of Avantel, S. de R.L. de C.V. and Servicios Alestra, S.A. de C.V. (as merged companies) with Axtel, S. A. B. de C.V. (as the merging company); said merger took effect on June 22, 2019 and has no impact on the operation at the consolidated level of the Company. (6) Legally incorporated companies with no operations. ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 35 E-mail: buzon@alfa.com.mx Business ethics We are working to ensure all employees can better understand Whatsapp/SMS: +52 1 81 2353 9853 the Code of Ethics through refresher We adhere to our business courses, and each year we ask them philosophy by acting under the to re-sign the letter of acceptance. In Toll-free telephone highest standards of personal and 2019, 90 employees received training lines: professional integrity wherever we on anti-corruption policies and 01 800 265 2532 operate. (Mexico) procedures. 1 866 482 1957 (United States) The basis that guides our ethical We also strive to ensure that our 1 866 238 2860 culture is the Code of Ethics7, value chain performs ethically and in (Canada) which applies to all our employees, accordance with the law. In 2019, we directors, managers, leaders, area informed 100% of our suppliers about managers, coordinators, consultants, Axtel’s anti-corruption policies and Web page: contractors and anyone who provides procedures. We are implementing www.alfa.com.mx/ buzon.html professional services to Axtel. an ongoing inspection program with our contractors to ensure there This document sets out the behavior are no cases of child labor among we expect from each of the applicable their workers and that they have The ALFA subjects, as well as the principles the necessary personal protection Transparency Mailbox intended to ensure a productive equipment to guarantee safety in the working environment in our facilities, performance of their duties. is available in several where human rights, equality and languages 24 hours a diversity are respected, thereby We provide an open, confidential and day, 365 days a year. avoiding conflicts of interest, bribery, anonymous communication channel corruption, discrimination and to our employees and stakeholders harassment. for reporting any breaches of the In addition, our employees Code of Ethics or our policies. This can approach the Human In order for each of our employees is the ALFA Transparency Mailbox Resources department directly to carry out their work in compliance which offers different means for to share any comments, with the ethics that characterize us, expressing these concerns: complaints or concerns related we created a computer graphic8 to to ethical, legal and integritydisplay the 16 general principles of related conduct. the Code of Ethics. 7 You can consult our Code of Ethics at: https://www.axtelcorp.mx/codigo-de-etica/ 8 You can consult our infographic at: https://www.axtelcorp.mx/sites/axtelcpo.mx/files/Codigo_de_Etica_Infografia.pdf 36 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 PROCESS FOR RECEIVING AND COMPLAINTS RECEIVED DEALING WITH COMPLAINTS In 2019 we received 96 complaints, of which 75 were dealt with and resolved in their entirety by ALFA’s Internal Audit The complaint is received 1 in the ALFA Transparency Department, while the remaining 21 are currently being resolved. Mailbox. At the same time, there were no cases of It is analyzed and assigned to corruption, discrimination, human rights 2 the responsible departments violations, privacy or leakage of customer data and no critical concerns were reported for investigation, in accordance with policies and to the supreme governing body during this procedures. period. The findings of the 3 Cases of inappropriate investigation are received treatment of employees for review. Sensitive cases are reviewed by Internal 42 Cases of inappropriate Audit. treatment of customers 18 A meeting is held to 4 authorize the closing of the Cases of personal relationships 16 case. Others 9 5 Cases of conflicts of interest 6 Results are presented to the Audit Committee. Cases of policy compliance 4 Case of asset preservation 1 TOTAL 96 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 37 Human rights Axtel’s commitment to sustainable CODE OF ETHICS development, employee welfare and the social development of the communities where we operate is centered on respect for human rights in all our areas of influence. SUPPLIER CODE We therefore reject any act of OF CONDUCT discrimination, child exploitation, forced labor, violation of the rights of indigenous peoples, abuse, coercion, impediment to association or ALFA TRANSPARENCY collective bargaining, and/or threats MAILBOX along our value chain. This stance is endorsed by our Code of Ethics, Supplier Code of Conduct, certain internal policies and our HUMAN RIGHTS adherence to the United Nations POLICY9 Global Compact. RECRUITMENT AND SELECTION POLICY ADHERENCE TO THE GLOBAL COMPACT 9 Learn about Axtel’s Human Rights Policy: https://www.axtelcorp.mx/sites/axtelcpo.mx/files/Politica_Derechos_Humanos.pdf 38 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 FINANCIAL OUTLOOK In order to drive sustainable business growth, we manage our economic and financial resources with transparency, ethics and integrity. ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 39 CASH FLOW SALES PER QUARTER 2019 PER QUARTER 2019 (millions of Mexican pesos) (millions of Mexican pesos) 1Q 1,074 1Q 3,147 2Q 1,094 2Q 3,092 3Q 1,111 3Q 3,167 4Q 1,187 4Q 3,378 CASH FLOW SALES PER ANNUM PER ANNUM (millions of Mexican pesos) (millions of Mexican pesos) 2016* $3,673 2016* $13,937 2017 $4,300 2017 $12,544 2018 $4,393 2018 $12,788 2019 $4,466 2019 $12,784 *Note: Figures include mass business results. 40 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 REPORTED FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE (millions of Mexican pesos) ITEM 2017 2018 2019 Revenue $12,544 $12,788 $12,784 Direct Economic Value Generated Interest income $57 $52 $60 (DEG) Other income $841 $224 $55 DEG $13,442 $13,065 $12,899 Operating costs -$3,441 -$3,357 -$3,353 Acquired services (outsourcing) -$380 -$179 -$146 Distributed Economic Value Social benefits (payroll and -$3,353 $2,452 -$2,456 (DEV) derivatives) Taxes paid -$66 -$92 -$56 Payments to funders -$710 -$278 -$601 Investments in the community -$4 -$0 -$0 (donations) Other expenses -$323 -$17 -$119 DEV -$8,277 -$6,375 -$6,731 Retained economic Economic value generated (-) value $5,165 $6,690 $6,167 Distributed economic value ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 41 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of the Issuer’s Operating Results and Financial Position Results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018 Revenue For the twelve months ended December 31, 2019, total revenue was $12.784 billion, unchanged from the $12.788 billion in the same period of 2018. The Company’s revenue is derived from the following segments: Business. . In 2019, revenue amounted to $10.625 billion, compared with $10.313 billion in 2018, an increase of 3%, derived from increases of 3% in both Telecom and IT services. Business Telecom. . In 2019, revenue came to $9.277 billion, compared with $9.002 billion in 2018, an increase of 3%, primarily due to a 12% increase in Managed Networks resulting from the positive performance of Ethernet, collaboration solutions and managed services in relation to non-recurring infrastructure contracts to provide dark fiber connectivity to a wholesale customer, as well as the mass market divestment transition services agreement. This increase in Managed Networks was partially mitigated by an 11% drop in Voice revenues due to a decline in fixed-to-mobile and long-distance revenues. Data and Internet revenues increased 2% due to continued customer demand for dedicated internet, partially mitigated by a drop in data. Business IT. In 2019, IT revenues totaled $1.347 billion, compared to $1.311 billion in 2018, a 3% increase driven by 16% growth in cybersecurity services and increases in cloud services. Government. Revenues for 2019 totaled $2.159 billion, compared to $2.475 billion in 2018, a drop of 13%, derived from 9% and 17% drops in Telecom and IT services, respectively. Government Telecom. In 2019, revenues came to $1.072 billion, compared to $1.174 billion in 2018, a decrease of 9%, due mainly to a 13% drop in revenues from Managed Networks as a result of the termination of VPN service contracts and a slowdown in nonrecurring revenues. Voice revenues were down 19% due to a drop in fixed-to-mobile revenues, while Data and Internet revenues increased 8% due to growing data demand. Government IT. . In 2019, IT revenues totaled $1.086 billion, compared to $1.302 billion in 2018, a decrease of 17%, primarily due to lower cybersecurity revenues as a result mainly of the termination of a major contract with a Mexican state at the end of 2018. Gross Profit, Expenses, Operating Cash Flow and Operating Profit Gross Profit. Gross profit is defined as revenue less cost of sales. In 2019, gross profit was $9.431 billion, unchanged from $9.431 billion in 2018, which means the positive performance of the corporate segment was mitigated by a decline in revenues from the government segment. The gross profit margin remained unchanged at 74%, as a result of a lower business segment margin associated with an increase in non-recurring business revenues, which have lower margins, offset by an increase in the government segment margin associated with a lower proportion of non-recurring revenues. Operating expenses. In 2019, operating expenses totaled $5.015 billion, a 6% drop compared to $5.320 billion in 2018, mainly due to reductions in employees and maintenance expenses as a result of digital innovation initiatives and savings of $276 million derived from the new accounting standard for long-term leases (IFRS 16). 42 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 Other income (expenses). In 2019, other income came to $50 million, down 82% from $282 million in 2018, which includes $225 million in earnings from the sale of towers in 2018. Operational Cash Flow. EBITDA, defined as operating income plus depreciation and amortization and impairment of fixed assets, amounted to $4.466 billion in 2019, up 2% from $4.393 billion in 2018. However, 2018 EBITDA includes other income in the amount of $225 million from the sale of towers; adjusting for this profit, 2019 EBITDA increased 7% compared to 2018. The EBITDA margin was up from 32.6% (without tower sales profit) in 2018 to 34.9% in 2019, largely driven by digitalization initiatives that helped reduce operating expenses and savings due to the IFRS 16 accounting standard. Depreciation, Amortization and Impairment of Assets. Depreciation and amortization for 2019 came to $3.692 billion, unchanged from $3.697 billion in 2018. Operating Profit. In 2019, the Company recorded an operating profit of $774 million compared to $695 million in 2018, an increase of 11%, due mainly to the 2% increase in EBITDA, as previously described, and the slight decrease of $5 million in depreciation and amortization. Comprehensive Financing Result, net The comprehensive financing cost totaled $1.127 billion; a 32% drop compared to $1.665 billion in 2018. This decrease is primarily due to a 22% reduction in net interest expense related to partial prepayments of bank loans of $4.35 billion in December 2018 and $550 million in May 2019, and payments of other liabilities of approximately $900 million. In addition, there was a $291 million foreign exchange gain in 2019, 55% higher than the $187 million foreign exchange gain in 2018. Taxes In 2019, income tax represented savings of $15 million, compared to a tax expense of $37 million the previous year. This variation is due mainly to the effects of inflation and the application of tax loss carryforwards during 2019 compared to 2018, generating a greater tax benefit in results. Discontinued Operations In 2019 and 2018, the Company recorded mass segment results as discontinued operations due to the divestment of the segment. Net income after taxes came to $324 million in 2019, which includes other income of $741 million from the sale of 18% of the mass segment in May 2019, compared to $2.101 billion in 2018, which includes other income of $2.786 billion from the sale of 82% of the business in December 2018. Net Profit (Loss) The Company recorded a net loss of $14 million in 2019, compared to a net profit of $1.095 billion in 2018. This development is explained mainly by the difference in discontinued operations in relation to the sale of the mass segment explained above. Capital investments For the twelve-month period ended December 31, 2019, capital expenditures on acquisitions of property, plant and equipment and intangibles totaled $1.762 billion, down 6% from $1.871 billion in 2018. In addition, earnings of $227 million were recorded in 2018 from the divestment of towers. Financial position as of December 31, 2019, and December 31, 2018 Assets. As of December 31, 2019, total assets amounted to $24.331 billion compared to $28.156 billion as of December 31, 2018, a decrease of $3.825 billion, or 14%. ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 43 Cash and Equivalents. As of December 31, 2019, cash and equivalents amounted to $858 million compared to $2.249 billion as of December 31, 2018, a decrease of $1.391 billion, or 62%. The 2018 year-end cash includes $1.073 billion of extraordinary cash expended during the first quarter of 2019 for value added tax and other expenses provided for from the mass segment divestiture. Accounts Receivable. Accounts receivable as of December 31, 2019, amounted to $2.426 billion compared to $2.66 billion as of December 31, 2018, a decrease of $234 million or 9%. Property, systems and equipment, net. As of December 31, 2019, property, systems and equipment, net, came to $12.964 billion compared to $16.106 billion as of December 31, 2018. Property, systems and equipment, net of accumulated depreciation, amounted to $61.040 billion and $63.272 billion as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Liabilities. As of December 31, 2019, total liabilities amounted to $20.920 billion, compared to $24.535 billion as of December 31, 2018, a decrease of $3.615 billion or 15%, mainly derived from the prepayment of bank loans and other liabilities. Accounts Payable. As of December 31, 2019, accounts payable amounted to $2.898 billion compared to $3.547 billion as of December 31, 2018, a decrease of $649 million, or 18%. Debt. As of December 31, 2019, total debt, including accrued interest, amounted to $14.984 billion, an $855 million drop, comprised by $426 million of debt reduction and $429 million of accounting reduction caused by a 4% appreciation of the Mexican peso against the US dollar year to year. The $426 million debt reduction is explained by (i) a $250 million decrease related to the prepayment of the syndicated loan; (ii) a $300 million reduction in prepayments of short-term bank debt; (iii) a $320 million decrease in other loans and financial leases; (iv) a $12 million decrease in accrued interest; and (v) a $457 million increase due to the new accounting standard for long-term leases (IFRS 16). Stakeholders’ Equity As of December 31, 2019, the Company’s stakeholders’ equity amounted to $3.411 billion compared to $3.621 billion as of December 31, 2018, a $210 million decrease due to a reduction in retained earnings. Capital stock was recorded at $464 million as of December 31, 2019 and 2018. Cash Flow Statement As of December 31, 2019, cash flows from operating activities came to $2.957 billion, compared to cash flows of $5.411 billion as of December 31, 2018. The change is mainly due to lower EBITDA from the mass segment following its divestment in December 2018 and May 2019. As of December 31, 2019, the Company had generated (used) cash flows from investing activities of $(528) million, compared to $2.376 billion as of December 31, 2018. The 2019 figure includes earnings from the sale of the mass segment of $1.150 billion; the 2018 figure includes earnings from the sale of towers of $227 million and the mass segment of $4.466 billion. Investments in property, systems and equipment and intangibles came to $1.762 billion as of December 31, 2019, and $1.871 billion as of December 31, 2018. As of December 31, 2019, cash flows (used in) generated from financing activities came to $(3.821) billion, primarily from the prepayment of bank loans of $550 million, leases of $638 million and other liabilities of $1.238 billion, compared to $(6.812) billion as of December 31, 2018, primarily from the prepayment of bank loans of $4.430 billion. As of December 31, 2019, the net debt to cash flow ratio and the interest coverage ratio were 3.2x and 3.3x, respectively. Also, as of December 31, 2018, the net debt to cash flow ratio (including proceeds from the sale of towers) and the interest coverage ratio were 3.0x and 3.2x, respectively. Pro forma interest on prepaid loans and other liabilities are considered to calculate the interest coverage ratio. 44 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 45 Sustainability We have a Sustainability Policy8, as well as a Sustainability Strategy that Social Strategy We are committed to fostering the reflects our vision of “contributing to sustainable development of our At Axtel, we integrate a more sustainable future through our society by acting for the benefit of labor and environmental practices, our employees and our external sustainability into each proposing in an honest, ethical and communities, providing them with of the company’s areas responsible way innovative solutions tools so they can enjoy access to better and processes, as well that grant society access to Information educational and health opportunities, and Communication Technologies, as well as a dignified life. as throughout our value which also ensure the company’s chain, by adopting the best profitability”. Environmental Strategy environmental, social, We seek to reduce the negative impact Economic strategy of our operations on the environment financial and corporate We are committed to honestly by reviewing our procedures and governance practices to managing our technological, economic developing our methods to conserve ensure we remain in the and financial resources to operate resources and establish a harmonious efficiently under strict risk control relationship with nature. market. and in compliance with the law, thereby ensuring the successful and In addition to this strategy, we have the sustainable growth of the company. Axtel Sustainability Model that allows us to coordinate our performance in the fields of the environment, labor, society, operational efficiency and innovation and work culture as part of the same approach. SUSTAINABILITY MODEL ENVIRONMENTAL EMPLOYEE SOCIAL OPERATIONAL INNOVATION CONCERN WELLBEING OUTREACH EFFICIENCY AND DIGITAL CULTURE 8 See our Sustainability Policy at: https://www.axtelcorp.mx/sustentabilidad/ 46 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 WORKING OPERATIONAL TOWARDS 2020 EFFICIENCY We seek to ensure a unique experience for our customers, with the highest INNOVATION AND quality standards and our drive towards DIGITAL CULTURE new technologies. We create value for our customers and employees by ensuring the best The Corporate Communication practices in Information Security and Sustainability Department is and seeking out innovative options leading the way in the sustainable for ongoing improvement for the management of our company and is Information Technology market. responsible for reporting to General Management and the Board of Directors on the progress we make in EMPLOYEE economic, environmental and social WELLBEING matters during the year. In addition, We are working to improve the this department participates in the work climate, promote training and Sustainability and Environmental development for our employees, Committees comprised by all ALFA and ensure that we work in safe and companies. healthy environments. SOCIAL OUTREACH We establish positive relationships with our community that allow us to play a role in its social development. ENVIRONMENTAL CONCERN We are focused on mitigating our environmental impact by reducing energy, waste and water consumption, as well as cutting greenhouse gas emissions. ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 47 Mission, vision and values MISSION Enable organizations to increase their productivity through digitization. VISION Be the best option in the digital experience through innovation to create value. VALUES9 Teamwork... Our strength Respect... Our commitment Customer focus... Our differentiator Innovation... Our passion Quality... Our standard Integrity... Our Pillar 9 Find out more about Axtel Values: https://www.axtelcorp.mx/filosofia/ 48 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 Global Compact TOPIC GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLE and Sustainable Development Goals 1. Companies must support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed fundamental rights within Maintaining our commitment HUMAN their sphere of influence. to building a more sustainable RIGHTS future in every area we can is how 2. Companies must ensure they are not complicit in we ratify our adherence to the human rights abuses. United Nations Global Compact, an international initiative we have been part of since 2011. 3. Companies must support freedom of association This report also represents our and the effective recognition of the right to collective Communication for Progress (CoP). bargaining. 4. Companies must support the eradication of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. LABOR 5. Companies must support the eradication of child labor. 6. Companies must support the abolition of discriminatory practices in employment and occupation. 7. Companies must maintain a preventive approach to protect the environment. 8. Companies must encourage initiatives that promote ENVIRONMENT greater environmental responsibility. 9. Companies must encourage the development and dissemination of environmentally friendly technologies. 10. Companies must work against corruption in all its ANTI-CORRUPTION forms, including extortion and bribery. ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 49 We also support the dissemination and awareness of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) within the company and with our value chain. In addition, we are identifying the SDGs in which we have the greatest impact due to the nature of our business and activities. The table below lists some of the projects we are undertaking in 2019: SDG PROJECT GOAL 3 Development of the 360° self-care and Health and wellbeing campaign for our employees. Wellbeing GOAL 7 Incorporation of renewable energies Affordable in our operations with higher energy clean energy demand such as Data Centers. GOAL 8 Creation of direct jobs for more than Decent work and 4,000 people. economic growth GOAL 9 Access to state-of-the-art technology for Industry, government agencies to provide people with Innovation and an efficient service, as well as to businesses Infrastructure to improve their productivity and services. 50 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 GRI-RECOMMENDED Materiality METHODOLOGY In 2019 we once again conducted a Stakeholder inclusion: materiality analysis to determine the consultations were held most relevant topics affecting our with the most representative business and act on them. To this stakeholders and a broad end, we analyzed global trends in response was obtained, which the telecommunications sector, as ensures that their views and well as international organizations expectations on matters that analyze macro trends. We regarding Axtel’s sustainability also consulted 1,974 employees, will be included. directors, customers, suppliers and the media through online Sustainability context: matters surveys using the methodology of relevance to our industry recommended by Global Reporting globally and the latest trends Initiative (GRI), in order to find out were considered, including about their perception of Axtel’s some that go beyond the GRI sustainable performance and guidelines. the issues that can impact our operations, profitability, reputation, Materiality: the issues of market positioning and value greatest relevance to Axtel’s creation for our stakeholders. stakeholders are set out in this report. This exercise was crucial in identifying and updating material Completeness: in this report issues given that our company has we present the results for each undergone major changes, such material issue. as its functional separation into two specialized business units – services and infrastructure – and the completion of the sell-off of different assets related to the mass segment we previously served. ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 51 AXTEL MATERIALITY 2020 1 Information security 2 Energy efficiency 1 3 Network reliability 4 Ethics, anti-corruption and values 2 5 Customer privacy 3 6 Environmental and social risk management of operations 4 5 7 Product and services innovation Impact on business 6 8 Commitment to the community (voluntary work 7 and philanthropy) 8 9 9 Attracting and retaining talent 10 12 11 10 Respect for and promotion of human rights 16 14 13 15 11 Health and safety of employees 17 18 12 Strategies to combat climate change 19 13 Employee commitment 20 14 Introduction of environmental policies 15 Employee education and training 16 Use of renewable energy in operations Importance for stakeholders 17 Reduction of emissions 18 Diversity and inclusion Business Social Commitment 19 Integration of social and environmental aspects Environmental Employees in supplier reviews 20 Waste reduction Stakeholders At Axtel we maintain frequent, Email Advertising close and two-way contact Company Intranet Supplier portal with people and organizations Corporate portal: comments to Institutional website of relevance to our business the CEO Press releases using different formats and Meetings and information sessions Financial reports communication channels, such as: Surveys Social networks 52 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 STAKEHOLDERS AND KEY TOPICS AND CONCERNS THAT AXTEL ACTIONS IN RESPONSE AROSE IN 2019 EMPLOYEES We offered training programs based on professional development plans, as well as the use of Professional development plans, relationship job posting to encourage growth and development among our employees; we continued leader between boss and employee, leadership and development efforts; implemented a flexi-time and remote work program; promoted volunteer exercising of authority, balance between activities and sports events involving employees, and developed the 360 wellness program that work and family, remote or home-based work includes nutrition, health and commitment survey activities. schemes, and a healthy working environment. SUPPLIERS In order to optimize and make interaction with suppliers more efficient, we continue to Digitization of supplier interaction and increased implement digitalization tools and the use of RPA (Robot Process Automation). Among other operational efficiency features, suppliers automatically and immediately upload the necessary information for data registration, modification or updates in accordance with the company’s operational guidelines and with real-time interaction with the necessary platforms and/or validations. Similarly, invoices are recorded using automatic tools that validate compliance with current tax regulations. The internal processes of the entire supply chain form part of the digital transformation initiatives implemented by the company. GOVERNMENT AND REGULATORY AGENCIES The Economic Competition Unit of the Federal Telecommunications Institute (IFT – acronym Compliance with the Federal Telecommunications in Spanish) has confirmed that notifications submitted by Axtel, together with the purchasers, and Broadcasting Act (LFTR – acronym in complied with the provisions of the Federal Telecommunications and Broadcasting Law Spanish) regarding the sale of non-strategic (LFTR – acronym in Spanish). In addition, in 2019 the IFT authorized the extension of several assets, as well as the renewal of frequency frequency concessions requested by Axtel in accordance with the provisions of the regulatory concessions. framework. CUSTOMERS We seek to reduce failures and increase service availability through preventive plans and ongoing processes for improvement. We train employees dealing with customers in the Service failure, quick response and technologies and services we offer. We have also restructured the business, both in customer short incident and request resolution service and service operation, to provide quicker solutions for service failures and provide a times, customer service. better customer experience by means of an agile culture, automation tools and by improving employee experience. COMMUNITIES We received the ESR (Socially Responsible Company) Distinction from the Mexican Center for Philanthropy (CEMEFI) for the 12th consecutive year. We are still party to the UN Global Development of strategies and actions with Compact and have formed part of the BMV’s Sustainable CPI since 2013. As a result of our social, economic and/or environmental benefits. commitment to the environment, we participated in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), in the Climate Change and Suppliers modules, obtained ISO 14001 certification, and continue to promote the use of technology to reduce paper consumption in our billing, thereby avoiding the printing of 900,000 sheets of paper. We also participated at meetings of ALFA’s Sustainability Committee in which issues related to current legislation and regulations were reviewed, as well as initiatives promoted in favor of the environment by each company of the Group. Furthermore, we participated in the SumaRSE Network and our volunteers took part in the “School for Parents” program, an initiative aimed at the parents of students of the ALFA Foundation Educational Project, which seeks to make parents more aware of the challenges faced by teenagers today. SHAREHOLDERS AND INVESTORS In 2019, we began operating under two specialized and focused business units – infrastructure Value creation and services – seeking to maximize the value of Axtel’s fiber network and capitalize on market opportunities derived from the growing demand for data from wholesale customers, achieving better growth prospects for both business units. In addition, we developed a plan for divesting non-strategic assets, which was successfully completed in 2019. This plan included the divestment of towers in 2017, the sale of the mass market fiber business begun in 2018 and concluded in 2019, and lastly the agreement to sell three data centers to Equinix in October 2019. The net proceeds from these transactions were used to reduce debt and liabilities, thereby strengthening the Company’s financial structure, which will give us the flexibility to evaluate other ways to continue generating value in the future, either through acquisitions that will afford greater growth, evaluating a possible dividend policy, and/or analyzing investment proposals that will maximize the value of the infrastructure unit and the Company. INFORME ANNUAL INTEGRATED ANUAL INTEGRADO REPORT2019 2020 53 EMPLOYEE WELLBEING At Axtel, we are working to facilitate the professional and personal development of each of our 4,643 employees by providing adequate workspaces, promoting a workfamily balance, offering training opportunities on different topics and promoting health and well-being through specific programs. 54 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES BY TYPE OF CONTRACT AND GENDER EMPLOYEES WITH A EMPLOYEES WITH A PERMANENT CONTRACT: 4,472 TEMPORARY CONTRACT: 171 (96%) (4%) 1,154 55 3,318 116 MEN MEN WOMEN WOMEN NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES BY TYPE OF WORKING DAY AND GENDER FULL TIME PART TIME EMPLOYEES: 4,636 EMPLOYEES: 7 (99.9%) (0.1%) 1,206 3 3,430 4 MEN MEN WOMEN WOMEN ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 55 NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES BY TYPE OF CONTRACT, REGION AND GENDER REGION NON-UNION TOTAL PERMANENT CONTRACT TEMPORARY CONTRACT MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN Central 1,091 368 44 11 1,514 Mexico Northern 1,913 734 61 40 2,748 Mexico Western 381 Mexico 314 52 11 4 Total 3,318 1,154 116 55 4,643 Axtel no longer has unionized workers following the total divestment of the Mass Market segment in 2019. EMPLOYEES WITH A PERMANENT CONTRACT EMPLOYEES WITH A TEMPORARY CONTRACT BY REGION BY REGION REGION NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES REGION NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES Central Central Mexico 1,459 Mexico 55 Northern Northern 2,647 101 Mexico Mexico Western Western 366 15 Mexico Mexico Total 4,472 Total 171 56 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 We offer a benefit plan that includes double the number of days of Christmas holiday pay required by law, major medical expense insurance, life insurance, savings account, 20 days’ leave for personal EMPLOYEES BY AGE matters, disability coverage, and maternity AND GENDER and paternity leave. In this regard, in 2019 we provided 67 maternity and 78 paternity leaves, of which 90% and 95% respectively 5% 2% returned to work at the end of their leave, 9% and 72% and 49% respectively continue working at Axtel one year after requesting 11% leave. We also pay competitive salaries 54% compared to the market. An example of 19% this is our employees in the lowest salary range, who earn 72% more than the minimum salary set by law in Mexico. Men aged 31 to 50 Women aged 31 to 50 We value the loyalty of our team, which Men over the age of 51 is why this year we formally recognized Men under the age of 30 the careers of 117 male employees and Women under the age of 30 37 female employees who completed 10 Women over the age of 51 years working at Axtel. For people about to retire we offer optional plans and programs to prepare for this new stage of life. In 2019, 30% of candidates chose to participate in Visionate, a comprehensive development program with individual coaching sessions to facilitate their transition to retirement. NEW HIRES BY GENDER We also strive to attract and retain the best talent. In 2019, 620 employees joined 432 our staff, while 546 employees left. MEN 188 WOMEN TOTAL 620 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 57 NEW HIRES BY REGION, GENDER AND AGE REGION AGE MEN WOMEN 18-30 años 48 27 Central 31-50 años 119 43 Mexico +51 años 15 3 18-30 años 110 57 Northern 31-50 años 91 45 Mexico +51 años 12 3 18-30 años 12 5 Western 31-50 años 23 5 Mexico +51 años 2 0 The percentage of new hires in 2019 was 13.3% EMPLOYEE TURNOVER BY REGION, TURNOVER GENDER AND AGE BY GENDER REGION AGE MEN WOMEN 358 MEN 18-30 años 26 3 188 Central WOMEN 31-50 años 136 51 Mexico +51 años 18-30 años 48 23 23 1 TOTAL 546 Northern 31-50 años 144 52 Mexico +51 años 81 46 18-30 años 2 Western 31-50 años 27 10 Mexico +51 años 11 2 The employee turnover rate in 2019 was 11.7% 58 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 MANAGERIAL TEAM BY AGE EMPLOYEES BY JOB CATEGORY AND GENDER AND GENDER WOMEN WOMEN JOB CATEGORY MEN AGED MEN AGED JOB CATEGORY MEN WOMEN AGED AGED 31-50 31-50 51+ 51+ CEO 1 CEO and 1 8 Executive Directors 8 Executive Directors Directors 37 5 Directors 21 2 16 3 Managers 114 17 Managers 73 17 41 Middle Managers 251 64 Total 95 19 65 3 Employees 366 164 Analysts 2,656 959 Total 3,434 1,209 Employee development Given the nature of our industry UniAlestra we are implementing a process This is an online learning center of ongoing technological change for developing skills to make the and digital transformation. We are company’s digital transformation facing these challenges by providing possible. In 2019, 163 employees employees with constant training graduated from the first generation of so they can stand at the cutting the diploma program on cybersecurity edge of technological trends and by and cloud solutions, taught by a conducting assessments that allow us community of 55 experts from within to identify areas of opportunity. the company. We have defined three lines of action for focusing our training efforts: ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 59 Executive Forum This event offers our company executives the opportunity to participate in the digital innovation strategy and tools we will be adopting on a day-to-day basis to boost productivity. A total of 184 executives participated in 2019. Cultural Model We are working to create an environment of digital transformation in every company department and at every level so we can meet the technological needs of our customers. We spent $14.5 million in classroom and online training for our employees on topics such as sales, operations, leadership, organizational culture and digital gym3, as well as certification for working at heights, lead & facilitate, supervisor to coach and technology. AVERAGE TRAINING HOURS BY JOB CATEGORY AND GENDER JOB WOMEN TOTAL AVERAGE MEN TRAINED TOTAL AVERAGE CATEGORY TRAINED TRAINING TRAINING TRAINING TRAINING Directors 5 75 15 40 271 7 Executive 9 16 2 Directors Managers 19 290 15 115 1,660 14 Employees 1,087 21,494 20 2,917 60,467 21 Area 98 1,949 20 353 7,641 22 Leaders Total 1,209 23,808 19.7 3,434 70,057 20.4 We perform periodic evaluations to identify strengths and areas of opportunity in terms of employee knowhow and skills. In 2019, we conducted 360° executive evaluations of 182 employees, 180° mid-level management evaluations of 32 employees, and young talent evaluations of 404 employees. As every year, in 2019 we held a nationwide event to celebrate Family Day, which included the participation of 2,410 employees and 4,890 family members. 3 Digital Gym is the learning gym that will prepare our employees for digital innovation. 60 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 Health and hygiene For Axtel, the health and safety of our This year we launched our 360° t Axtel we meet the highest standards employees and visitors to our facilities Wellness strategy, based on the required by the Ministry of Labor and is a priority. Psychosocial Risks Prevention Social Welfare. A mere 62 accidents Guidelines, with which we promote a were reported in 2019, including To ensure safety, we conduct good working environment that gives minor incidents, none of which were inspections and audits of our rise to a working culture free from any fatal. The accident rate was as follows: workplaces and promote the form of violence, abuse, reprisals and/ mandatory use of personal protective or discrimination. This program offers 1.06 accident frequency rate (AFR) equipment where required. our employees a range of services, 0.01 occupational illness frequency activities and events covering rate (OFRI) We have 16 Health and Safety professional, family, social and health 26.64 lost workdays (LWD) Committees representing 60% of our matters. 0.11 employee absence rate (EAR) employees. NORTHERN REGION WESTERN REGION CENTRAL MEXICO REGION EMPLOYEES WOMEN MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN MEN Accidents 2 10 3 14 5 28 Accident Frequency Rate 0.07 0.33 0.69 3.21 0.31 1.76 (AFR) Occupational Illness Frequency 0 0 0 0 0 0.06 Rate (OIFR) Lost Work Day 1.80 10.34 6.43 78.98 1.70 60.56 rate (LWD) Employee 0.01 0.04 0.03 0.32 0.01 0.24 Absence Rate (EAR) ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 61 As part of our ongoing activities, we promote measures to help protect our PROVIDING HEALTHCARE FOR employees’ health through healthy eating and disease prevention campaigns. In EMPLOYEES AND THEIR FAMILIES addition, we provide medical services, vaccination campaigns, general check(PARTICIPANTS BY CAMPAIGN) ups and medical consultations, among other benefits, at all our facilities. In 2019, we spent almost $3 million on medical consultations, medicines, emergency services and first aid kits for our employees. 1,618 Vaccination We also encourage the participation of our employees in sports, recreational and joint activities. In 2019, 1,352 employees took part in activities such as soccer, bowling, table tennis, dominoes and racing. 658 Prevention of chronic-degenerative diseases Social outreach 607 Women’s health programs Together with civil organizations, we play an active role in solving social issues in the communities where we operate through our corporate volunteer activities. 317 Nutrition Since 2015 our volunteers have participated in the ALFA School for Parents4, campaign an initiative designed for the parents of students of the ALFA Foundation Educational Project. This drive seeks to make parents of high school students aware of the emotional and behavioral problems young people may face. In 2019, 20 volunteers participated for a total of 140 hours. 165 Agreements with laboratories and We also form part of the ALFA Know Your Degree initiative, in which employees hospitals from different ALFA companies share their professional experiences with students from the ALFA Foundation High School. The aim is to provide them with insight into working life to ensure better university degree choices. In 2019, 51 five volunteer employees shared their experiences with 32 students interested Men’s health in degrees in the visual arts, computer systems, and architecture. programs 4 Learn more about the ALFA School for Parents at: https://alfalive.mx/escuela-para-padres/ 62 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 Furthermore, 12 of our employees and their families participated as volunteers in the 2019 Monterrey Powerade Marathon, spurring on their colleagues from the Axtel Running Club to reach the finish line. We are part of Red SumaRSE Nuevo León, an initiative that seeks to improve quality of life for around 32,500 inhabitants from six communities in the state of Nuevo León by resolving community issues and preventing crime and violence through public participation. The network is comprised of government agencies and 32 partner companies. In 2019 we moved ahead with the implementation of the 2.0 initiative by forging 96 alliances and carrying out 67 participatory projects with the efforts of 1,521 people. ANNUAL INTEGRATED INFORME ANUAL INTEGRADO REPORT2019 2020 63 ENVIRONMENTAL CONCERN We are committed to the sustainability of our business and therefore promote an environmental culture within the organization. We are also focused on improving energy efficiency, reducing water consumption, and cutting greenhouse gas emissions as well as the waste generated by our processes. Our work is performed in accordance with our Environmental Policy guidelines, which include steps for minimizing the impact of our operations on the environment. Three specific policies are derived from this document: Waste and Residues, Energy Saving and Water Consumption. 64 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 In 2019, 63 employees completed the induction process for ISO 14001 and another 10 employees for ISO 14001:2015 as internal auditors. We attended meetings of ALFA’s Environmental Committee which reviewed issues related to current legislation and regulations, as well as initiatives to be developed in each company of the Group. Energy use In our industry, energy is a key resource for providing customers with solutions, so we are working to make our processes more efficient thereby reducing cutting our consumption of energy. In order to use energy more efficiently, we operate according to the Energy Saving Policy, which includes measures our employees expect to achieve this objective and, as a result, cut Green House Gas (GHG) emissions. We have wind and geothermal energy supplies at 48 and 46 sites respectively. DIRECT CONSUMPTION FROM FIXED SOURCES TYPE LITERS GJ Gasoline 2,406 81 Power Diesel 101,794 3,865 Plants LP Gas 4,200 110 Natural Gas 1,302,917 53,860 Total Fixed Sources 1,411,317 57,916 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 65 OTHER INDIRECT CONSUMPTION BY SOURCE TYPE LITERS GJ Gasoline Vouchers 193,285 6,522 for Executives TYPE LITERS KM TRAVELED Air Travel 4,106,845 5,249 DIRECT CONSUMPTION BY CO-GENERATION TYPE MWh GJ Co-generation 8,295 29,862 Total co8,295 29,862 generation INDIRECT CONSUMPTION BY SOURCE TYPE MWh GJ Conventional 123,619 474,892 Wind Power 12,655 45,559 Geothermal 694 2,500 Fixed Sources 136,969 522,951 66 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 ENERGY CONSUMPTION 14% Conventional Energy Renewable and Clean Energy 86% Fuel consumption has changed because Axtel’s fleet of vehicles ceased operations following the company’s mass market divestment. However, in 2019 the cogeneration plant located in Querétaro began working at full capacity leading to a readjustment in the mix of fuel and electricity consumption. IN 2016 WE ESTABLISHED COMMITMENTS FOR 2020: To reduce electrical energy To reduce fuel consumption consumption by 2% by 5% TOTAL ENERGY CONSUMPTION (GJ) 522,951 Electricity Co-generation 64,438 Fuels 29,862 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 67 FOR EVERY MILLION ENERGY EFFICIENCY (GJ) PESOS OF REVENUE THE FOLLOWING WERE CONSUMED: SOURCE 2017 2018 2019 Fixed Source Fuels 3,891 5,401 57,916 2017: 55.03 GJ/ Co-generation 58,649 251,557 29,862 BILLION PESOS Electricity 504,451 494,890 522,951 (considering revenue of $12.544 billion and Other Indirect 6,522 690,357 GJ). Consumption Total Energy 690,356 759,233 617,251 Consumption Notes on energy consumption calculations: · The base year used for calculating energy consumption is 2016. 2018: 59.37 GJ/ · All information for energy calculation was collected by Axtel. BILLION PESOS · The conversion factors used are the ones set out in the Official Gazette of the Federation (DOF). (considering revenue · We prevented the emission of 7,035 tons of CO2eq into the atmosphere by of $12,788 billion and consuming renewable energies. 759,233 GJ). ENERGY INTENSITY6 In 2019 we concluded the sale of the mass market segment, as well as certain 2019: 48.28 GJ/ assets required for its operation. In this way we modified the parameter used to calculate energy intensity. In previous years it was related to the number of BILLION PESOS mass market subscribers; however, since 2018 we have taken the company’s (considering revenue revenues as a reference. of $12,784 billion and 617,251 GJ). In 2019, 48.28 GJ were consumed for every billion in revenue, considering $12.784 billion and a total energy consumption of 617,251 GJ. This calculation only includes consumption within Axtel. 6 The types of energy included are fuel, electricity, heating and refrigeration. 68 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 Greenhouse Gas Emissions We consume electricity and fuels that generate Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions. In view of the impact this entails, we are implementing a number of initiatives to reduce consumption and minimize this impact. We voluntarily report our emissions to the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) in the climate change and suppliers modules. Every year we measure our emissions in the following way: Scope 1 direct emissions, Scope 2 indirect emissions from electricity consumption, and Scope 3 indirect emissions for consumption outside the company. SCOPE 1 EMISSIONS FROM FIXED SOURCES SCOPE 2 EMISSIONS FUEL Tons CO2e SOURCE Tons CO2e Gasoline 6 Conventional 65,147 Diesel 287 Co-generation 4,372 LP Gas 7 Total 69,519 Natural Gas 3,024 Total 3,324 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 69 SCOPE 1 EMISSIONS (TONS CO2e) 2017: 18,026 2018: 14,511 2019: 3,324 SCOPE 2 EMISSIONS (TONS CO2e) 2017: 54,359 2018: 70,896 2019: 69,519 SCOPE 3 EMISSIONS (TRAVEL) In 2019, our executives made 5,249 domestic and international business trips totaling 4,106,845 km producing indirect emissions of 692 tons of CO2e. SCOPE 4 EMISSIONS (VOUCHERS) We counted gasoline vouchers given to directors to calculate indirect emissions generated by their use. In 2019 these came to 512 tons of CO2e. 70 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 EMISSIONS FOR EVERY MILLION PESOS OF INCOME WERE AS FOLLOWS: SCOPE 3 EMISSIONS (TONS CO2e) 2017: 55.86 tons of 2017: 1,135 CO2e/ 2018: 2,699 BILLION PESOS 2019: 1,204 (considering revenue of $12.544 billion and emissions of 73,520 tons of CO2e). EMISSION INTENSITY As with energy, we also modified the parameter for calculating emission 2018: 6.97 tons of intensity. In previous years it was related to the number of mass CO2e/ market subscribers, but since BILLION PESOS 2018 we have taken the company’s revenues as a reference. (considering revenue of $12.788 billion and In 2019, 5.79 tons of CO2e were emissions of 89,163 tons emitted for each GJ consumed, of CO2e). considering 74,047 tons of CO2e for total energy consumption. 2019: 5.79 tons of CO2e/ BILLION PESOS (considering revenue of $12,784 billion and emissions of 74,047 tons of CO2e). ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 71 TOTAL EMISSIONS BY SCOPE (TONS CO2e) SCOPE 2017 2018 2019 Scope 1 18,026 14,511 3,324 Scope 2 54,359 70,896 69,519 Scope 3 1,135 2,699 1,204 Total 73,520 88,106 74,047 Notes on the calculation of emissions: · The base year used for calculating emission reductions is 2016. · We use the GHG Protocol tool to obtain emission factors and Global Warming Potential (GWP) rates, as well as to calculate emissions. · For Scope 2 emissions we used the emission factor of the National Electricity System 2018: 0.527 tons of CO2e/MWh. · The consolidation approach used for emissions was operational control. ·The information used for calculating Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions was collected by Axtel. Water consumption Water is not a vital resource for our operations; however, we assume responsibility for its conservation and care, and we therefore encourage responsible use. 72 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 We address the global issue of water consumption through the Water Efficiency Policy, which sets out guidelines for employees on how we should use and preserve this resource. WATER SUPPLY BY In Mexico City we have 571 m3 of water stored. SOURCE (M3) Most of the water we consume comes from the municipal supply of the states MUNICIPAL TOTAL: we are located in, with the rest coming from groundwater. In 2019 there were no 47,974 m3 recorded cases of affectations to our groundwater sources. Waste management WATER CONSUMPTION (M3) and disposal 90,832 Since we offer intangible technological services and solutions, the vast majority 2017: of the materials we use are not utilized for our service offerings but for the organization’s operational functions. 87,825 2018: We seek to reduce waste in our administrative offices, as well as the use of 47,974 materials for daily operations, by encouraging recycling. We achieve this by 2019: complying with Mexican Official Standards, environmental legislation in force in Mexico and our own Waste Management and Disposal Policy. We are pooling efforts to implement circular economy solutions that benefit society and our organization. To this end, we run an active Recycling Program in cities where we have a significant presence. In 2019 we will recycle 50 tons of wood, paper, cardboard, glass, metals and plastic. In 2019 we produced 783 tons of waste that was sent to the Mariano Escobedo Industrial Park in Nuevo León for proper confinement. ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 73 WASTE DISPOSAL (TONS) Dump (landfill) 600 Confinement 59 Recycling 124 Total 783 We continue working to reduce paper consumption by promoting the option of electronic invoicing with our customers. This year we delivered 248,095 electronic invoices, equivalent to 868,333 unprinted sheets. In 2019 we did not receive any fines or non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with environmental regulations. 74 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Axtel, S. A. B. de C. V. and Subsidiaries (Subsidiary of Alfa, S. A. B. de C. V.) Consolidated Financial Statements as of and for the Years Ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, and Independent Auditors’ Report Dated January 31, 2020 Table of contents Page Independent Auditors’ Report 1 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 5 Consolidated Statements of Operations 6 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive 7 (Loss) Income Consolidated Statements of Changes in 8 Shareholders’ Equity Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 9 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 10 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 75 Independent Auditors’ Report to the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Axtel, S. A. B. de C. V. Opinion We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Axtel, S. A. B. de C. V. and Subsidiaries (the “Company”), which comprises the consolidated statements of financial position as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, and the consolidated statements of operations, the consolidated statements of comprehensive (loss) income, the consolidated statements of changes in shareholders’ equity and the consolidated statements of cash flows for the years then ended, as well as explanatory notes to the consolidated financial statements which includes a summary of significant accounting policies. In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of the Company as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, as well as their consolidated financial performance and their cash flows for the years then ended, in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”), as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board. Basis for Opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (“ISA”). Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements section of our report. We are independent of the Company in accordance with the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants’ Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (“IESBA Code”) together with the Code of Ethics issued by the Mexican Institute of Public Accountants (“IMCP Code”), and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with the IESBA Code and with the IMCP Code. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the consolidated financial statements of the current period. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the consolidated financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. We have determined that the matters described below are the key audit matters, which should be communicated in our report. Assessment of impairment of long-lived assets and goodwill As described in Note 3 k) and 12 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company performs annual impairment tests to the balance of goodwill, intangible assets with an indefinite useful life and of the property, plant and equipment. We have identified the impairment evaluation as a key audit matter, mainly due to the fact that impairment tests involve the application of judgments and significant estimates by the Company’s management in determining the assumptions, premises, cash flows, budgeted income, and the selection of discount rates used to estimate the recoverable value of the cash generating units (“CGUs”), in addition to the importance of the goodwill and intangible assets balances of $1,052 and $1,405 million, as well as the property, plant and equipment balance of $12,964 and $16,106 million, as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Therefore, as part of our audit and with support of valuation experts, we focused our tests on the following significant assumptions that the Company considered when estimating future projections to assess the recoverability of goodwill, intangible assets and properties, plant and equipment: long-term growth rate of the industry, discount rate, estimated revenues from different segments, expected gross and operating profit margin. For this, our procedures, among others, included the following: 76 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 • We verified that the methods applied by the Company for determining the recovery value of the aforementioned assets correspond to the financial methodology used and recognized to value assets of similar characteristics. • Performed tests on the completeness, accuracy and reasonableness of financial projections by comparing them to the business performance and historical trends, verifying the explanations of the variations with management. In addition, we assessed the internal processes used by management to make projections, including appropriate oversight levels and the analysis that was carried out at the various levels. • Analyzed the significant assumptions used in the model for calculating the recoverable value of CGUs compared to those commonly used in the industry in which the Company operates, including the long-term growth rate, gross and operating margins and the discount rate determined based on comparable companies in the industry. • Evaluate of discount rates used and the methodology used in the preparation of the model of the impairment test. In addition, we tested the integrity and accuracy of the impairment model and the book value of CGU. • To determine the CGU, we considered the Company’s operating cash flows, synergies that have been generated in the business, the market segments where they operate and the different lines of goods and services that they offer their clients. • Evaluate the independent assessment of the sensitivity of the key assumptions for the impairment model, which we discussed with management estimating the degree of impact they would have on the financial statements in the face of a reasonably possible change in such key assumptions. The results of our procedures were satisfactory, and we believe the assumptions used by management in the impairment test, are reasonable. Information other than the Consolidated Financial Statements and Auditors’ Report thereon Management is responsible for the other information presented. The other information includes two documents, the Annual Stock Exchange Filing and the information that will be incorporated in the Annual Report that the Company must prepare pursuant to the General Provisions Applicable to Issuers and other Participants in the Mexican Stock Exchange and file it with the National Banking and Securities Commission (“CNBV” for its acronym in Spanish). The Annual Stock Exchange Filing and the Annual Report are expected to be made available to us after the date of this auditors’ report. Our opinion of the consolidated financial statements does not cover the other information and we do not express any form of assurance over it. In connection with our audit of the consolidated financial statements, our responsibility will be to read the other information, when available, and in doing so, consider whether the other information contained therein is materially inconsistent with the consolidated financial statements or with our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to contain a material error. If based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement therein, we are required to communicate the matter in a statement in the Annual Report required by the CNBV and those charged with governance in the Company. Responsibilities of Management and those Charged with Governance for the Consolidated Financial Statements Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the consolidated financial statements in accordance with IFRS, and for such internal control as management determines is necessary to enable the preparation of consolidated financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. In preparing the consolidated financial statements, management is responsible for assessing the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 77 management either intends to liquidate the Company or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. Those charged with governance are responsible for overseeing the Company’s consolidated financial reporting process. Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors’ report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these consolidated financial statements. As part of an audit in accordance with ISAs, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the audit. We also: • Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. • Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control. • Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by management. ­ Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit • evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditors’ report to the related disclosures in the consolidated financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditors’ report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Company to cease to continue as a going concern. • Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements, including the disclosures, and whether the consolidated financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation. • Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities within the Company and subsidiaries to express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements. We are responsible for the direction, supervision, and performance of the Company and subsidiaries audit. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion. We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit. We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards. 78 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of the consolidated financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication. Galaz, Yamazaki, Ruiz Urquiza, S. C. Member of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited C. P. C. Héctor García Garza Monterrey, Nuevo León México January 31, 2020 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 79 Axtel, S. A. B. de C. V. and Subsidiaries (Subsidiary of Alfa, S. A. B. de C. V.) Consolidated Statements of Financial Position As of December 31, 2019 and 2018 Thousands of Mexican pesos NOTE 2019 2018 ASSETS Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents 6 $857,742 $2,249,155 Trade and other accounts receivable, net 8 3,344,674 3,593,881 Inventories 9 93,982 104,802 Financial instruments at fair value 4 92,673 129,075 Prepayments 3.j 521,406 546,064 Derivative financial instruments 4 5,898 Long-lived assets held for sale 2.b 1,124,613 315,053 Total current assets 6,035,090 6,943,928 Non-current assets: Restricted cash 7 93,908 Property, plant and equipment, net 10 12,963,991 16,105,524 Right of use asset, net 11 661,246 Goodwill and intangible assets, net 12 1,052,258 1,405,387 Deferred income taxes 20 2,876,287 2,873,075 Other non-current assets 13 741,897 716,287 Derivative financial instruments 4 17,693 Total non-current assets 18,295,679 21,211,874 Total assets $24,330,769 $28,155,802 LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY Current liabilities: Debt 17 $131,632 $465,828 Lease liability 18 451,775 Trade and other accounts payable 14 4,169,016 7,423,978 Provisions 15 220,190 312,384 Deferred income 16 153,229 536,452 Derivative financial instruments 4 51,814 39,258 Total current liabilities 5,177,656 8,777,900 Non-current liabilities: Debt 17 13,836,310 15,156,918 Lease liability 18 414,323 Accounts payable to related parties 28 703,348 4,033 Employee benefits 19 695,498 592,037 Derivative financial instruments 4 91,898 Deferred income taxes 20 759 4,007 Total non-current liabilities 15,742,136 15,756,995 Total liabilities 20,919,792 24,534,895 Shareholders’ equity: Controlling interest: Capital stock 21 464,368 464,368 Additional paid-in capital 159,551 Accrued earnings 3,104,427 3,013,954 Other comprehensive loss (157,818) (16,972) Total controlling interest 3,410,977 3,620,901 Non-controlling interest 6 Total shareholders’ equity 3,410,977 3,620,907 Total liabilities and shareholders’ equity $24,330,769 $28,155,802 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 80 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 Axtel, S. A. B. de C. V. and Subsidiaries (Subsidiary of Alfa, S. A. B. de C. V.) Consolidated Statements of Operations For the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 Thousands of Mexican pesos NOTE 2019 2018 Revenues 23 $12,783,633 $12,788,484 Cost of sales (6,104,427) (6,290,978) Gross profit 6,679,206 6,497,506 Administration and selling expenses (5,841,918) (6,008,955) Other (expenses) income, net 25 (63,453) 206,929 Operating income 773,835 695,480 Financial income 26 60,253 52,129 Financial expenses 26 (1,468,752) (1,868,618) Exchange fluctuation gain, net 26 290,275 186,888 Gain on changes in fair value of financial instruments (8,919) (35,202) Financial result, net (1,127,143) (1,664,803) Loss before taxes (353,308) (969,323) Income taxes benefit (expense) 20 15,291 (37,338) Loss from continuing operations (338,017) (1,006,661) Discontinued operations 22 324,078 2,101,339 Net consolidated (loss) income $(13,939) $1,094,678 (Loss) income attributable to: Controlling interest $(13,939) $1,094,678 Non-controlling interest $(13,939) $1,094,678 Loss per basic and diluted share from continuing operations (0.017) (0.050) Profit per basic and diluted share from discontinued operations 0.016 0.104 (Loss) profit per basic and diluted share $(0.001) $0.054 Weighted average common outstanding shares (thousands of shares) 20,183,560 20,249,227 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 81 Axtel, S. A. B. de C. V. and Subsidiaries (Subsidiary of Alfa, S. A. B. de C. V.) Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive (Loss) Income For the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 Thousands of Mexican pesos NOTE 2019 2018 Net consolidated (loss) income $(13,939) $1,094,678 Other comprehensive (loss) income for the year: Items that will be reclassified to the consolidated statement of operations: Effect of currency translation 20 (2,468) (86) Fair value of derivative financial instruments, net of taxes (88,940) (8,370) Items that will not be reclassified to the consolidated statement of operations: Remeasurements of employee benefits, net of taxes 20 (49,438) 42,280 Total other comprehensive (loss) income for the year (140,846) 33,824 Total comprehensive (loss) income of the year $(154,785) $1,128,502 Total comprehensive (loss) income of the year Attributable to: Controlling interest $(154,785) $1,128,502 Non-controlling interest Comprehensive (loss) income of the year $(154,785) $1,128,502 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 82 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 Axtel, S. A. B. de C. V. and Subsidiaries (Subsidiary of Alfa, S. A. B. de C. V.) Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders’ Equity For the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 Thousands of Mexican pesos Controlling Capital Additional (Accumulated stock paidin deficit) retained capital earnings Balances as of January 1, 2018 $464,368 $159,551 $1,919,276 Net consolidated income 1,094,678 Net consolidated income Comprehensive income 1,094,678 Balances as of December 31, 2018 464,368 159,551 3,013,954 Transactions with stockholders: Repurchase of shares (159,551) 103,015 Other 1,397 Total transactions with stockholders (159,551) 104,412 Net consolidated loss (13,939) Total other comprehensive loss for the year Comprehensive loss (13,939) Balances as of December 31, 2019 $464,368 $ $3,104,427 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 83 interest Other Total NonTotal comprehensive controlling controlling shareholders’ loss interest interest equity $(50,796) $2,492,399 $ 6 $2,492,405 1,094,678 1,094,678 33,824 33,824 33,824 33,824 1,128,502 1,128,502 (16,972) 3,620,901 6 3,620,907 (56,536) (56,536) 1,397 (6) 1,391 (55,139) (6) (55,145) (13,939) (13,939) (140,846) (140,846) (140,846) (140,846) (154,785) (154,785) $(157,818) $3,410,977 $ $3,410,977 84 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 Axtel, S. A. B. de C. V. and Subsidiaries (Subsidiary of Alfa, S. A. B. de C. V.) Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows For the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 Thousands of Mexican pesos 2019 2018 Cash flows from operating activities Loss before taxes $(353,308) $(969,323) Depreciation and amortization 3,578,541 3,622,713 Exchange fluctuation gain, net (290,275) (186,888) Allowance for doubtful accounts 8,874 114,207 Loss (gain) from sale of property, plant and equipment 5,046 (226,646) Interest income (60,253) (52,129) Interest expense 1,468,752 1,868,618 Current PTU 12,524 9,825 Provisions and others (65,009) 129,315 Change in unrealized fair value and settlement of financial instruments 8,919 35,202 Changes in working capital: Trade and other accounts receivable, net 120,012 (629,388) Inventories 131,289 84,083 Trade accounts payable, related parties and other accounts payable (1,162,728) 395,526 Employee benefits 32,835 38,797 Paid PTU (9,178) (16,693) Deferred income (383,223) 224,331 Operating cash flows from discontinued operations (29,633) 1,061,978 Subtotal 3,013,185 5,503,528 Income taxes paid (56,481) (92,478) Net cash flows generated by operating activities 2,956,704 5,411,050 Cash flows from investing activities Acquisitions of property, plant and equipment (1,691,354) (1,405,494) Disposal of property, plant and equipment 226,646 Acquisition of intangible assets (70,676) (465,207) Interest received 60,254 52,318 Restricted cash and other assets 93,908 29,033 Investment in shares of Altán (69,959) (17,868) Investing cash flows from discontinued operations 1,150,000 3,956,544 Net cash flows generated by (used in) investing activities (527,827) 2,375,972 Cash flows from financing activities Proceeds of current and non-current debt 619,355 Payments of current and non-current debt (550,000) (5,753,342) Lease payments (638,067) Payment of account payable to holding company (1,237,640) Interest paid and other financial expenses (1,395,272) (1,677,825) Net cash flows used in financing activities (3,820,979) (6,811,812) Net increase (decrease) of cash and cash equivalents (1,392,102) 975,210 Effect of changes in exchange rates 689 16,142 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 2,249,155 1,257,803 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year $857,742 $2,249,155 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 85 Axtel, S. A. B. de C. V. and Subsidiaries (Subsidiary of Alfa, S. A. B. de C. V.) Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements As of and for the years December 31, 2019 and 2018 Thousands of Mexican pesos, unless otherwise indicated 1. General information Axtel, S. A. B. de C. V. and subsidiaries (“Axtel” or the “Company”) was incorporated in Mexico as a capital stock company. Axtel’s office is located at Boulevard Díaz Ordaz km 3.33 L-1, Colonia Unidad San Pedro, 66215 San Pedro Garza García, Nuevo León, Mexico. Axtel is a publicly owned corporation, whose shares are registered at the National Securities Registry and are traded at the Mexican Stock Exchange (“Bolsa Mexicana de Valores” in Spanish) through Certificates of Participation (“CPOs”) issued under the Trust whose trustee is Nacional Financiera, S. N. C. The Company is subsidiary of Alfa, S. A. B. de C. V. (“Alfa”), direct holding and last company of the Group, which exercises control and holds 52.78% through the Trust Administration Agreement No. 2673 entered into with Banco Invex, S. A. Alfa has control over the Company’s relevant activities. The Company is engaged in installing, operating and/or exploiting a public telecommunications network for the provision of services involving conducting voice signals, sounds, data, internet, texts and images, IT, local as well as domestic and international long-distance telephone service and restricted television service. Concessions are required to provide these services and conducting the Company’s business activities. See Note 12. Axtel conducts its activities through subsidiary companies of which it is the owner or of which it controls directly most of the common shares representing their capital stock. See Note 3.c. When reference is made to the controlling entity Axtel, S.A.B. of C.V. as an individual legal entity, it will be referred to as “Axtel SAB”. In the following notes to the consolidated financial statements, references to pesos or “$” mean thousands of Mexican pesos; additionally, reference to dollars or “US$” mean thousands of U.S. dollars, unless otherwise indicated for both cases. 2. Relevant events 2019 a. Sale of the rest of the massive segment On May 1, 2019, the Company divested its fiber optic business from the massive segment located in the cities of León, Puebla, Toluca, Guadalajara and Querétaro to Megacable Holdings, S.A.B. de C.V. and subsidiaries (“Megacable”) through the sales figure of residential customers and micro-businesses, fiber network and other assets related to the operation of the massive segment in these cities in exchange for a consideration of $1,150 million pesos, thus concluding the sale of the fiber optic business of the massive segment, process that began with the sale to Televisa in December 2018. The Company recognized a gain of $519 million pesos, which is presented under discontinued operations in the consolidated statement of operations. The Company did not have an impact on cash flows due to tax consequences, as it applied tax loss carryforwards of $730,238. Lastly, as explained in Note 22, the operations subject to the transaction are presented as discontinued operations to reflect results from January 1 to May 1, 2019, as required by IFRS. In addition, this note identifies the asset and liability balances that were disposed as of the transaction date, as well as the cash flows generated by the transaction disposed to the selling date in 2019. b. Sale of data centers in Apodaca and Querétaro On 3 October 2019, Axtel entered into an agreement with Equinix to strengthen its co-location, interconnection and cloud solutions by entering into two agreements subject to compliance with closing conditions. Equinix acquired a new subsidiary entity of Axtel, which will 86 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 house the operations and assets of three data centers currently belonging to Axtel, two of these data centers are located in Querétaro and one in the metropolitan area of Monterrey. Axtel will maintain a non-controlling shareholding over the new subsidiary entity. The amount of the transaction is US$175 million, which will be settled in cash, except US$13 that will be receivable in the short term. The rest of the data centers owned by Axtel, located in Monterrey, Nuevo León; Guadalajara, Jalisco and Tultitlán, Mexico City, are not part of this transaction. Data centers are presented as available for sale as of December 31, 2019 and were disposed on January 8, 2020 (see Note 31). c. Debt prepayment On May 7, 2019, the Company prepaid a portion of the syndicated loan held with HSBC as the leader of the participating financial institutions in the amount of $250,000, and the disposed portion of the Committed Line with Export Development Canada of $300,000. It also made payments to Alfa SAB of $917,000 and $320,000 for principal and interest, respectively. As a result of this prepayment, the Company immediately recognized the outstanding debt costs as of that date of $8,250. 2018 d. Sale of massive segment On December 17, 2018, the Company divested a significant portion of its Massive Segment through the sale of assets, shares, inventories, receivables and telecommunications equipment to Grupo Televisa in exchange for an economic consideration of $4,713 million pesos, recognizing a gain of $1,950 million pesos, which is presented in discontinued operations within the consolidated statements of operations. The remainder of the Massive Segment that was not disposed of in this transaction continues to be operated by the Company as of December 31, 2018. On December 21, 2018, with the proceeds obtained from the transaction, Axtel made a partial prepayment of the syndicated loan held with HSBC, as lead coordinator of the participating financial institutions, for $4,350 million pesos, reducing the outstanding principal balance to $1,570 million pesos as of December 31, 2018. Debt issuance costs of $26,500 pending to be amortized and that corresponded to the amount of the prepayment, were recognized in results in the consolidated statement of operations. Additionally, as explained in Note 20, the operations subject to the transaction are presented as discontinued operations for 2018 as required by IFRS. The balances of assets and liabilities associated with the transaction, as well as the cash flows generated by the disposed operation until the date of the sale in 2018 are disclosed in the corresponding Note. e. Sale of towers with American Tower Corp. During March and June 2018, the Company reached a sale agreement with MATC Digital, S. de R.L. of C.V. (“MATC”), a subsidiary of American Tower Corporation, to sell 17 and 12 telecommunication towers, respectively, for US $12 million. The agreement included the commitment of Axtel to use these sites from MATC for 15 years. The transactions for the sale of telecommunication towers had a net profit of $224,974, which is presented within operating income. f. Debt proceeds from Export Development Canada On August 31, 2018, the Company received debt funding of $300,000 associated with a long-term loan from Export Development Canada due in 2021 with monthly capital payments and accruing interest at a 91-day TIIE rate plus 1.875 basis points. The proceeds obtained from this loan were used mainly to pay the short-term debt with BBVA Bancomer for $200,000. ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 87 g. Debt restructuring On February 22, 2018, the Company’s syndicated long-term credit with HSBC Mexico was increased by $ 291,000 from the original amount of $5,709,000 to $6,000,000, with the same terms as the original credit. The proceeds obtained from this additional loan were used to pay short-term debt of $400,000 with HSBC Mexico. On August 30, 2018, the Company entered into a debt restructuring agreement with Bancomext to exchange the original debt of US$171,000 to a new debt of $3,263,000. The terms of the new debt is 10 years with quarterly principal payments from the third year and with a 91-day TIIE interest rate plus 2.10 basis points. The Company accounted for this transaction as an extinguishment of the liability in dollars in accordance with IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, recording an impact on the consolidated statement of operations for $6,784 as a loss in the extinguishment. 3. Summary of significant accounting policies The following are the most significant accounting policies followed by Axtel and its subsidiaries, which have been consistently applied in the preparation of their financial information in the years presented, unless otherwise indicated: a. Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements of Axtel, S. A. B. de C. V. and subsidiaries have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (“IASB”). IFRS include International Accounting Standards (“IAS”) in force and all related interpretations issued by the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (“IFRIC”), including those previously issued by the Standard Interpretations Committee (“SIC”). The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis, except for certain financial instruments, which are measured at fair value. The preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates. Additionally, it requires management to exercise judgment in the process of applying the Company’s accounting policies. The areas involving a higher degree of judgment or complexity, as well as the areas where judgments and estimates are significant to the consolidated financial statements, are disclosed in Note 5. b. Changes in accounting policies and disclosures i. New standards and changes adopted by the Company. The Company adopted IFRS 16, Leases, and IFRIC 23, Interpretation on Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments, all new standards and interpretations in effect as of January 1, 2019, including the annual improvements to IFRS, as described below: IFRS 16, Leases IFRS 16, Leases, supersedes IAS 17, Leases, and the related interpretations. This new standard brings most leases on balance sheet for lessees under a single model, eliminating the distinction between operating and financial leases, while the model for lessees remains without significant changes. IFRS 16 is effective beginning January 1, 2019, and the Company decided to adopt it with the recognition of all the effects as of that date, without changing prior years. Under IFRS 16, lessees will recognize a right-of-use asset and the corresponding lease liability. The right of use will be depreciated based on the contractual term or, in some cases, on its economic useful life. On the other hand, the financial liability will be measured at initial recognition, discounting future minimum lease payments at present value according to a term, using the discount rate that represents the lease funding cost; subsequently, the liability will accrue interest through maturity. 88 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 The Company applied the exemptions to not to recognize an asset and a liability as described above, for lease agreements with a term of less than 12 months (provided that they do not contain purchase or term renewal options) and for those agreements where the acquisition of an individual asset of the contract was less than USD$5,000 (five thousand dollars). Therefore, payments for such leases will continue to be recognized as expenses within operating income. The Company adopted IFRS 16 on January 1, 2019; therefore, it recognized a right-of-use asset and a lease liability of approximately $680,405. The weighted average incremental rate on which the minimum payments of the lease agreements within the scope of IFRS 16 were discounted at present value was 11.74%. In addition, the Company adopted and applied the following practical expedients provided by IFRS 16: • Account for as leases the payments made in conjunction with the rent, and that represent services (for example, maintenance and insurance). • Create portfolios of contracts that are similar in terms, economic environment and characteristics of assets, and use a funding rate by portfolio to measure leases. • For leases classified as financial leases as of December 31, 2018, and without elements of minimum payment updating for inflation, maintain the balance of the right-of-use asset, and its corresponding lease liability on the date of adoption of IFRS 16. • Not to revisit the previously reached conclusions for service agreements, which were analyzed to December 31, 2018 under the IFRIC 4, Determining Whether a Contract Contains a Lease, and where it had been concluded that there was no implicit lease. • For operating leases that, as of December 31, 2018, contain direct costs to obtain a lease, maintain the recognition of such costs, that is, without capitalizing them to the initial value of the right-of-use assets. The Company took the required steps to implement the changes that the standard represents in terms of internal control, tax and systems affairs, from the adoption date. The following is a reconciliation of the total commitments of operating leases as of December 31, 2018 and the lease liability at the date of initial adoption: 2019 Operating lease commitments as of December 31, 2018 $834,651 Amount discounted using the incremental borrowing rate as of January 1, 2019 680,405 Lease liabilities as of December 31, 2018 (-): Short-term leases not recognized as lease liabilities (-): Low value assets not recognized as lease liabilities (+/-): Adjustments by extension of terms and others (+/-): Adjustments related to changes in the index of variable payment Lease liability as of January 1, 2019 $680,405 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 89 IFRIC 23, Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments This new Interpretation clarifies how to apply the recognition and measurement requirements in IAS 12, Income Taxes, when there is uncertainty over income tax treatments. Uncertain tax treatments are a tax treatment for which there is uncertainty over whether the relevant taxation authority will accept the tax treatment under tax law. In such a circumstance, an entity shall recognize and measure its current or deferred tax asset or liability by applying the requirements in IAS 12 based on taxable profit (tax loss), tax bases, unused tax losses, unused tax credits and tax rates determined applying this Interpretation. The Company applied IFRIC 23 from January 1, 2019. As a method of initial adoption, the Company determined that the impacts of the implementation of this Interpretation as of January 1, 2019 are not material considering the prevailing conditions of the tax positions that it has taken at the date of adoption and the faculties of the competent authorities to assess tax positions held by the Company at the same date. ii. New standards and interpretation, not in force in the reporting period The Company has reviewed the following new IFRS and improvements issued by IASB not yet effective for the reporting period, and in its evaluation process did not visualize potential impacts due to its adoption, considering that they are not of significant applicability: • IFRS 17 – Insurance contracts (1) • Amendments to IFRS 3 – Definition of a business (2) • Amendments to IAS 1 e IAS 8 – Definition of material (2) • Amendments to IFRS 9, IAS 39 e IFRS 7 – Interest rate benchmark reform (2) (1) Effective for annual periods beginning January 1, 2021 (2) Effective for annual periods beginning January 1, 2020 c. Consolidation i. Subsidiaries The subsidiaries are all the entities over which the Company has control. The Company controls an entity when it is exposed, or has the right to variable returns from its interest in the entity and it is capable of affecting the returns through its power over the entity. When the Company’s interest in subsidiaries is less than 100%, the interest attributed to external shareholders is recorded as non-controlling interest. Subsidiaries are consolidated in full from the date on which control is transferred to the Company and up to the date it loses such control. The accounting method used by the Company for business combinations is the acquisition method. The Company defines a business combination as a transaction in which it gains control of a business, and through which it is able to direct and manage the relevant activities of the set of assets and liabilities of such business with the purpose of providing a return in the form of dividends, smaller costs or other economic benefits directly to shareholders. The consideration transferred for the acquisition of a subsidiary is the fair value of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred and the equity interests issued by the Company. The consideration transferred includes the fair value of any asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement. Identifiable acquired assets and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are initially measured at their fair values at the acquisition date. The Company recognizes any non-controlling interest in the acquire based on the share of the non-controlling interest in the net identifiable assets of the acquired entity. The Company accounts for business combinations using the predecessor method in a jointly controlled entity. The predecessor method involves the incorporation of the carrying amounts of the acquired entity, which includes the goodwill recognized at the consolidated level with respect to the acquiree. Any difference between the transferred consideration and the carrying amount of the net assets acquired at the level of the subsidiary are recognized in equity. The acquisition-related costs are recognized as expenses when incurred. 90 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 Goodwill is initially measured as excess of the sum of the consideration transferred and the fair value of the non-controlling interest in the subsidiary acquired over the net identifiable assets and liabilities assured. If the consideration transferred is less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired in the case of a bargain purchase, the difference is recognized directly in the consolidated statement of operations. If the business combination is achieved in stages, the book value at the acquisition date of the interest previously held by the Company in the acquired entity is remeasured at its fair value at the acquisition date. Any loss or gain resulting from such remeasurement is recorded in results of the year. Transactions and intercompany balances, as well as unrealized gains on transactions between Axtel companies are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements. In order to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Company, the amounts reported by subsidiaries have been modified where it was deemed necessary. As of December 31, 2019 and 2018, the main subsidiary companies of Axtel were as follows: Shareholding interest (%) Country 2019 2018 Functional currency Axtel, S. A. B. de C. V. (Controladora) (3) (5) Mexico Peso Servicios Axtel, S. A. de C. V. (1) Mexico 100 100 Peso Alestra Innovación Digital, S. de R. L. de C. V. (3) Mexico 100 100 Peso Avantel, S. de R. L. de C. V. (“Avantel”) (3) (5) Mexico 100 Peso Axes Data, S. A. de C. V. (1) Mexico 100 100 Peso Contacto IP, S. A. de C. V. (1) Mexico 100 100 Peso Instalaciones y Contrataciones, S. A. de C. V. (1) Mexico 100 100 Peso Servicios Alestra, S. A. de C. V. (1) (5) Mexico 99.98 Peso Ingeniería de Soluciones Alestra, S. A. de C. V. (1) Mexico 100 100 Peso Alestra USA, Inc. (2) USA 100 100 Dólar S&C Constructores de Sistemas, S. A. de C. V. (“S&C”) Mexico 100 100 Peso Alesre Insurance Pte, Ltd. (4) Singapore 100 Dólar Estrategias en Tecnología Corporativa, S. A. de C. V. (“Estratel”)(3) Mexico 100 100 Peso Servicios Alestra TI, S. A. de C. V. (1) Mexico 100 100 Peso Alestra Procesamiento de Pagos, S. A. de C. V. (3) Mexico 100 Peso Administradora de Centros de Datos México, S. A. de C. V. (1) Mexico 100 Peso Servicios Administrativos de Centro de Datos México, S. A. de C. V. (3) Mexico 100 Peso La Nave del Recuerdo, S. A. de C. V. (6) Mexico 100 Peso Contacto IP FTTH de México, S. A. de C. V. (6) Mexico 100 Peso Alestra Servicios Móviles, S. A. de C. V. (6) Mexico 100 Peso (1) Provider of administrative services. (2) Leasing of telecommunications and infrastructure equipment. (3) Provider of telecommunication services. (4) Company with no primary operations, disposed of in August 2019 (5) At the General Extraordinary Stockholders’ Meeting held on February 26, 2019, the stockholders agreed to merge Avantel, S. de R.L. de C.V. and Servicios Alestra, S.A. de C.V. (as absorbed companies) with Axtel, S. A. B. de C.V. (as absorbing company); this merger took effect on June 22, 2019 and has no impact on the operation of the Company at the consolidated level. (6) Legally created companies with no operations. As of December 31, 2019 and 2018, there are no significant restrictions for the investment in shares of the subsidiary companies mentioned above. ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 91 ii. Absorption (dilution) of control in subsidiaries The effect of absorption (dilution) of control in subsidiaries, that is, an increase or decrease in the percentage of control, is recorded in shareholders’ equity, directly in retained earnings, in the period in which the transactions that cause such effects occur. The effect of absorption (dilution) of control is determined by comparing the book value of the investment in shares before the event of dilution or absorption against the book value after the relevant event. In the case of loss of control, the dilution effect is recognized in income. When the Company issues a call option on certain non-controlling interests in a consolidated subsidiary and the non-controlling shareholders retain the risks and benefits over such interests in the consolidated subsidiary, these are recognized as financial liabilities at the present value of the amount to be reimbursed from the options, initially recorded with the corresponding reduction in equity and subsequently accruing through financial charges in results during the contractual period. iii. Sale or disposal of subsidiaries When the Company ceases to have control, any retained interest in the entity is remeasured at fair value, and the change in the carrying amount is recognized in the consolidated statement of operations. The fair value is the initial carrying amount for purposes of accounting for any subsequent retained interest in the associate, joint venture or financial asset. Any amount previously recognized in comprehensive (loss) income in respect of that entity is accounted for as if the Company had directly disposed of the related assets and liabilities. This results in the amounts previously recognized in comprehensive (loss) income being reclassified to income for the year. iv. Associates Associates are all entities over which the Company has significant influence but not control. Generally, an investor must hold between 20% and 50% of the voting rights in an investee for it to be an associate. Investments in associates are accounted for using the equity method and are initially recognized at cost. The Company’s investment in associates includes goodwill identified at acquisition, net of any accumulated impairment loss. If the equity in an associate is reduced but significant influence is maintained, only a portion of the amounts previously recognized in the comprehensive (loss) income are reclassified to income for the year, where appropriate. The Company’s share of profits or losses of associates, post-acquisition, is recognized in the consolidated statement of operations and its share in the other comprehensive (loss) income of associates is recognized as other comprehensive (loss) income. When the Company’s share of losses in an associate equals or exceeds its interest in the associate, including unsecured receivables, the Company does not recognize further losses unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate. The Company assesses at each reporting date whether there is objective evidence that the investment in the associate is impaired. If so, the Company calculates the amount of impairment as the difference between the recoverable amount of the associate and its carrying value and recognizes it in “Equity in income of associates recognized using the equity method” in the consolidated statement of operations. Unrealized gains on transactions between the Company and its associates are eliminated to the extent of the Company´s interest in such gains. Unrealized losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence that the transferred asset is impaired. In order to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Company, the accounting policies of associates have been modified. When the Company ceases to have significant influence over an associate, any difference between the fair value of the remaining investment, including any consideration received from the partial disposal of the investment, and the book value of the investment is recognized in the consolidated statement of operations. As of December 31, 2019 and 2018, the Company has no associates. 92 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 d. Foreign currency translation i. Functional and presentation currency The amounts included in the financial statements of each of the Company’s subsidiaries should be measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates (the “functional currency”). The consolidated financial statements are presented in Mexican pesos, which is the Company’s presentation currency. Note 3c describes the functional currency of the Company and its subsidiaries. When there is a change in the functional currency of one of the subsidiaries, according to International Accounting Standard 21, Effects of Changes in Foreign Currency Exchange Rates (“IAS 21”), this change is accounted for prospectively, translating at the date of the functional currency change, all assets, liabilities, equity and income items at the exchange rate of that date. ii. Transactions and balances Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into the functional currency using the foreign exchange rates prevailing at the transaction date or valuation date when the amounts are remeasured. Gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the closing exchange rates are recognized as foreign exchange gain or loss in the consolidated statement of operations, except for those which are deferred in comprehensive (loss)income and qualify as cash flow hedges. The exchange differences in monetary assets classified as financial instruments at fair value with changes through profit or loss are recognized in the consolidated statement of operations as part of the gain or loss in fair value. Translation of subsidiaries with recording currency other than the functional currency. The financial statements of foreign subsidiaries, having a recording currency different from their functional currency were translated into the functional currency in accordance with the following procedure: a. The balances of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in the recording currency were translated at the closing exchange rate. b. To the historical balances of monetary assets and liabilities and shareholders’ equity translated into the functional currency the movements that occurred during the period were added, which were translated at historical exchange rates. In the case of the movements of non-monetary items recognized at fair value, which occurred during the period stated in the recording currency, these were translated using the historical exchange rates in effect on the date when the fair value was determined. c. Revenues, costs and expenses of the periods, expressed in the recording currency, were translated at the historical exchange rates of the date they were accrued and recognized in the consolidated statement of operations, except when they arose from non-monetary items, in which case the historical exchange rate of the non-monetary items was used. d. The exchange differences arising in the translation were recognized in the consolidated statement of operations in the period they arose. ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 93 The primary exchange rates in the different translation procedures are listed below: Local currency to Mexican pesos Closing exchange rate Average annual as of December 31, exchange rate Country Local currency 2019 2018 2019 2018 United States U.S. dollar 18.85 19.68 19.27 19.24 e. Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand, bank deposits available for operations and other short-term investments of high credit-quality and liquidity with original maturities of three months or less, all of which are subject to insignificant risk of changes in value. f. Restricted cash Cash whose restrictions cause them not to comply with the definition of cash and cash equivalents given above, are presented in a separate line in the consolidated statement of financial position and are excluded from cash and cash equivalents in the consolidated statement of cash flows. g. Financial instruments Financial assets The Company classifies and measures its financial assets based on the Company’s business model to manage financial assets, and on the characteristics of the contractual cash flows of such assets. This way financial assets can be classified at amortized cost, at fair value through other comprehensive (loss) income, and at fair value through profit or loss. Management determines the classification of its financial assets upon initial recognition. Purchases and sales of financial assets are recognized at settlement date. Financial assets are entirely written off when the right to receive the related cash flows expires or is transferred, and the Company has also substantially transferred all the risks and rewards of its ownership, as well as the control of the financial asset. Classes of financial assets under IFRS 9, in effect beginning January 1, 2018. i. Financial assets at amortized cost Financial assets at amortized cost are those that i) are held within a business model whose objective is to hold said assets in order to 94 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 collect contractual cash flows and ii) the contractual terms of the financial asset give rise, on specified dates, to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest on the amount of outstanding principal. ii. Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive (loss) income Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive (loss) income are those whose business model is based in obtaining contractual cash flows and sell the financial assets; and the contractual terms of the financial asset give rise, on specified dates, to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest on the amount of outstanding principal. As of December 31, 2019 and 2018, the Company does not have financial assets to be measured at fair value through other comprehensive (loss) income. iii. Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, in addition to those described in point i in this section, are those that do not meet the characteristics to be measured at amortized cost or fair value through other comprehensive (loss) income, since i) they have a business model different to those that seek to collect contractual cash flows, or collect contractual cash flows and sell the financial assets, or otherwise ii) the generated cash flows are not solely payments of principal and interest on the amount of outstanding principal. Despite the above classifications, the Company can make the following irrevocable choices in the initial recognition of a financial asset: a. Disclose the subsequent changes in the fair value of an equity instrument in other comprehensive (loss) income, only if such investment (in which no significant influence, joint control or control is maintained) is not held for trading purposes, that is, a contingent consideration recognized as a result of a business combination. b. Assign a debt instrument to be measured at fair value in profit or loss, if as a result it eliminates or significantly reduces an accounting mismatch that would arise from the measurement of assets or liabilities or the recognition of profits and losses on them in different bases. As of December 31, 2019 and 2018, the Company has not made any of the irrevocable designations described above. Impairment of financial assets The Company uses a new impairment model based on expected credit losses rather than losses incurred, applicable to financial assets subject to such assessment (i.e. financial assets measured at amortized cost and at fair value through other comprehensive (loss) income), as well as lease receivables, contract assets, certain written loan commitments, and financial guarantee contracts. The expected credit losses on these financial assets are estimated from the initial recognition of the asset at each reporting date, using as a reference the past experience of the Company’s credit losses, adjusted for factors that are specific to the debtors or groups of debtors, the general economic conditions and an assessment of both, the current management and the forecast of future conditions. a. Trade accounts receivables The Company adopted a simplified expected loss calculation model, through which expected credit losses during the accounts payable’s lifetime are recognized. The Company does an analysis of its portfolio of accounts receivable from clients, in order to determine if there are significant clients for whom it requires an individual evaluation; on the other hand, customers with similar characteristics that share credit risks (participation in the portfolio of accounts receivable, market type, sector, geographic area, etc.), are grouped to be evaluated collectively. In its impairment assessment, the Company may include indications that the debtors or a group of debtors are experiencing significant financial difficulties, as well as observable data indicating that there is a significant decrease in the estimate of the cash flows to be received, including delays. For purposes of the previous estimate, the Company considers that the following constitutes an event of default, since historical experience indicates that financial assets are not recoverable when they meet any of the following criteria: ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 95 • the debtor incompletes the financial agreements; or • the information developed internally or obtained from external sources indicates that it is unlikely that the debtor will pay its creditors, including the Company, completely (without considering any guarantee held by the Company) The Company is defined as the breach threshold the period from which the recovery of the account receivable subject to analysis is marginal; in this case, 120 days for the business segment and 150 days for the government segment, which is in line with the management of internal risks. b. Other financial instruments The Company recognizes credit losses expected during the asset’s lifetime of all financial instruments for which credit risk has significantly increased since its initial recognition (assessed on a collective or individual basis), considering all the reasonable and sustainable information, including the one referring to the future. If as of the date of presentation of the credit risk a financial instrument has not significantly increased since its initial recognition, the Company calculates the loss allowance for that financial instrument as the amount of expected credit losses in the following 12 months. In both cases, the Company recognizes in profit or loss of the period the decrease or increase in the expected credit loss allowance at the end of the period, as an impairment gain or loss. Management assesses the impairment model and the inputs used therein at least once every year, in order to ensure that they remain in effect based on the current situation of the portfolio. Financial liabilities Financial liabilities that are not derivatives are initially recognized at fair value and subsequently valued at amortized cost using the effective interest rate method. Liabilities in this category are classified as current liabilities if they are expected to be settled within the following 12 months; otherwise, they are classified as non-current liabilities. Payables are obligations to pay for goods or services that have been purchased or received from suppliers in the ordinary course of business. Loans are initially recognized at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred. Loans are subsequently recognized at amortized cost; any difference between the resources received (net of transaction costs) and the settlement value is recognized in the consolidated statement of operations during the loan’s term using the effective interest method. Derecognition of financial liabilities The Company derecognizes financial liabilities if, and only if, the obligations of the Company are met, canceled or have expired. The difference between the carrying value of the financial liability derecognized and the consideration paid and payable is recognized in profit or loss. Additionally, when the Company carries out a refinancing transaction and the previous liability qualifies to be derecognized, the costs incurred in the refinancing are recognized immediately in results as of the date of termination of the previous financial liability. Offsetting of financial assets and liabilities Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount is presented in the consolidated statement of financial position when the right to offset the recognized amounts is legally enforceable, and there is an intention to settle them on a net basis or to realize the asset and pay the liability simultaneously. h. Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities All derivative financial instruments are identified and classified as fair value hedges or cash flow hedges, for trading or market risk hedging and are recognized in the consolidated statement of financial position as assets and/or liabilities at fair value and similarly 96 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 measured subsequently at fair value. Fair value is determined based on recognized market prices and when non-quoted in an observable market, it is determined using valuation techniques accepted in the financial sector. Fair value of hedging derivatives is classified as a non-current asset or liability if the remaining maturity of the hedged item is more than 12 months and as a current asset or liability if the remaining maturity of the hedged item is less than 12 months. Derivative financial instruments classified as hedges are contracted for risk hedging purposes and meet all hedging requirements; their designation at the beginning of the hedging operation is documented, describing the objective, primary position, risks to be hedged and the effectiveness of the hedging relationship, characteristics, accounting recognition and how the effectiveness is to be measured, applicable to that operation. Fair value hedges Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments are recorded in the consolidated statements of operations. The change in fair value hedges and the change in the primary position attributable to the hedged risk are recorded in the consolidated statement of operations in the same line item as the hedged position. As of December 31, 2019 and 2018, the Company has no derivative financial instruments classified as fair value hedges. Cash flow hedges The changes in the fair value of derivative instruments associated to cash flow hedges are recorded in shareholders’ equity. The effective portion is temporarily recorded in comprehensive (loss) income, within shareholders’ equity and is reclassified to profit or loss when the hedged position is affected; the ineffective portion is immediately recorded in profit or loss. As December 31, 2019 and 2018, the Company does not have derivative financial instruments designated as cash flow hedges. Suspension of hedge accounting The Company suspends hedge accounting when the derivative financial instrument or the non-derivative financial instrument has expired, is cancelled or exercised, when the derivative or non-derivative financial instrument is not highly effective to offset the changes in the fair value or cash flows of the hedged item. The substitution or successive renewal of a hedge instrument by another is not an expiration or resolution if said replacement or renewal is part of the Company’s documented risk management objective and is consistent with it. On suspending hedge accounting, in the case of fair value hedges, the adjustment to the carrying amount of a hedged amount for which the effective interest rate method is used, is amortized to profit or loss over the maturity period. In the case of cash flow hedges, the amounts accumulated in equity as part of comprehensive (loss) income remain in equity until the time when the effects of the forecasted transaction affect profit or loss. In the event the forecasted transaction is not likely to occur, the gain or loss accumulated in comprehensive (loss) income are immediately recognized in profit or loss. When the hedge of a forecasted transaction appears satisfactory and subsequently does not meet the effectiveness test, the cumulative effects in comprehensive (loss) income in shareholders’ equity are transferred proportionally to profit or loss, to the extent the forecasted transaction impacts it. Fair value of derivative financial instruments reflected in the Company’s consolidated financial statements, is a mathematical approximation of their fair value. It is computed using proprietary models of independent third parties using assumptions based on past and present market conditions and future expectations at closing date. i. Inventories Inventories are shown at the lesser of its cost and net realization value. The cost is determined using the weighted average cost method. The cost of the finished products and products in process includes the product design cost, raw material, direct labor, other direct costs and overhead costs (based in the normal operation capacity). Excludes borrowing costs. The net realization value is the estimated sales price in the ordinary course of the business, less variable sale expenses applicable. ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 97 j. Prepayments Prepayments mainly comprise insurance and prepayments to service providers. The amounts are recorded on the basis of contractual values and are recorded monthly in the consolidated statement of operations every month over the lifetime of the corresponding prepayment: the amount corresponding to the proportion to be considered over the following 12 months is shown under current assets and the remaining amount is shown under non-current assets. k. Property, plant and equipment Items of property, plant and equipment are recorded at cost less accumulated depreciation and any accrued impairment losses. Cost includes expenses directly attributable to the asset acquisition. Subsequent costs are included in the asset’s carrying amount or recognized as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the Company and the cost of the item can be reliably measured. The carrying amount of the replaced part is derecognized. Repairs and maintenance are recognized in the consolidated statement of operations during the year they are incurred. Major improvements are depreciated over the remaining useful life of the related asset. When the Company carries out major repairs or maintenance of its property, plant and equipment assets, cost is recognized in the carrying amount of the corresponding asset as a replacement, provided that the recognition criteria are met. The remaining portion of any major repair or maintenance is derecognized. The Company subsequently depreciates the recognized cost in the useful life assigned to it, based on its best estimate of useful life. Depreciation is calculated using the straight-line method, considering separately each of the asset’s components, except for land, which is not subject to depreciation. The estimated useful lives of assets classes are as follows: Years Buildings 40 60 Computers 3-5 Vehicles 4 Office equipment 10 Telecommunications network 6 a 28 Spare parts to be used after one year and attributable to specific machinery are classified as property, plant and equipment in other fixed assets. Borrowing costs related to financing of property, plant and equipment whose acquisition or construction relates to qualifying assets, that require a substantial period of time to be ready for their use or sale, are capitalized as part of the cost of acquiring such qualifying assets, up to the moment when they are suitable for their intended use or sale. Assets classified as property, plant and equipment are subject to impairment tests whenever events or circumstances occur indicating that the carrying amount of the assets may not be recoverable. An impairment loss is recognized for the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its recoverable amount in the consolidated statement of operations in other expenses, net. The recoverable amount is the higher of its fair value less costs to sell and its value in use. Residual value, useful lives and depreciation method of assets are reviewed at least at the end of each reporting period and, if expectations differ from previous estimates, the changes are accounted for as a change in accounting estimate. 98 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 Gains and losses on disposal of assets are determined by comparing the sale value with the carrying amount and are recognized in other expenses, net, in the consolidated statement of operations. l. Leases Classification and valuation of leases under IAS 17, in effect through December 31, 2018 The Company as lessee As of December 31, 2018, the classification of leases as finance or operating depended on the substance of the transaction rather than the form of the contract. Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards relating to the leased property are retained by the lessor were classified as operating leases. Payments made under operating leases (net of incentives received by the lessor) were recognized in the consolidated statement of operations based on the straight-line method over the lease period. Leases where the Company assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership were classified as finance leases. Finance leases were capitalized at the beginning of the lease, at the lower of the fair value of the leased property and the present value of the future minimum lease payments. If its determination was practical, in order to discount the future minimum lease payments to present value, the interest rate implicit in the lease was used; otherwise, the incremental borrowing rate of the lessee was used. Any initial direct costs of the leases were added to the original amount recognized as an asset. Each lease payment was allocated between the liability and finance charges to achieve a constant rate on the outstanding balance. The corresponding rental obligations were included in non-current debt, net of finance charges. The interest element of the finance cost was charged to the income for the year during the period of the lease, so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability for each period. Property, plant and equipment acquired under finance leases were depreciated over the shorter of the asset’s useful life or the lease term. The Company as lessor Leases for which the Company is considered a lessor were classified as financial or operating. As long as the lease terms transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee, the contract was classified as a finance lease. The other leases were classified as operating leases. Revenues arising from operating leases were recognized in straight-line over the term of the corresponding lease. The initial direct costs incurred in the negotiation and the organization of an operating lease were added to the book value of the leased asset and were recognized in a straight line over the term of the lease. Revenues arising from financial leases were recognized as accounts receivable for the amount of the net investment of the Company in the leases. Classification and valuation of leases under IFRS 16, in effect beginning January 1, 2019 The Company as lessee The Company evaluates whether a contract is or contains a lease agreement at inception of a contract. A lease is defined as an agreement or part of an agreement that conveys the right to control the use of an identified asset for a period of time in exchange for a consideration. The Company recognizes an asset for right-of-use and the corresponding lease liability, for all lease agreements in which it acts as lessee, except in the following cases: short-term leases (defined as leases with a lease term of less than 12 months); leases of low-value assets (defined as leases of assets with an individual market value of less than US$5,000 (five thousand dollars)); and, lease agreements whose payments are variable (without any contractually defined fixed payment). For these agreements, which exempt the recognition of an asset for right-of-use and a lease liability, the Company recognizes the rent payments as an operating expense in a straight-line method over the lease period. ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 99 The right-of-use asset comprises all lease payments discounted at present value; the direct costs to obtain a lease; the advance lease payments; and the obligations of dismantling or removal of assets. The Company depreciates the right-of-use asset over the shorter of the lease term or the useful life of the underlying asset; therefore, when the lessee will exercise a purchase option, the lessee shall depreciate the right-of-use asset from the commencement date to the end of the useful life of the underlying asset. Depreciation begins on the lease commencement date. The lease liability is initially measured at the present value of the future minimum lease payments that have not been paid at that date, using a discount rate that reflects the cost of obtaining funds for an amount similar to the value of the lease payments, for the acquisition of the underlying asset, in the same currency and for a similar period to the corresponding contract (incremental borrowing rate). When lease payments contain non-lease components (services), the Company has chosen, for some class of assets, not to separate them and measure all payments as a single lease component; however, for the rest of the class of assets, the Company measures the lease liability only considering lease payments, while all of the services implicit in the payments, are recognized directly in the consolidated statement of operations as operating expenses. To determine the lease term, the Company considers the non-cancellable period, including the probability to exercise any right to extend and/or terminate the lease term. Subsequently, the lease liability is measured increasing the carrying amount to reflect interest on the lease liability (using the effective interest method) and reducing the carrying amount to reflect the lease payments made. When there is a modification in future lease payments resulting from changes in an index or a rate used to determine those payments, the Company remeasures the lease liability when the adjustment to the lease payments takes effect, without reassessing the discount rate. However, if the modifications are related to the lease term or exercising a purchase option, the Company reassesses the discount rate during the liability’s remeasurement. Any increase or decrease in the value of the lease liability subsequent to this remeasurement is recognized as an adjustment to the right-of-use asset to the same extent. Finally, the lease liability is derecognized when the Company fulfills all lease payments. When the Company determines that it is probable that it will exercise an early termination of the contract that leads to a cash disbursement, such disbursement is accounted as part of the liability’s remeasurement mentioned in the previous paragraph; however, in cases in which the early termination does not involve a cash disbursement, the Company cancels the lease liability and the corresponding right-of-use asset, recognizing the difference immediately in the consolidated statement of operations. The Company as lessor As of January 1, 2019, the Company, in those cases where it acts as a lessor, maintains its accounting policy consistent with that in effect during the year ended December 31, 2018, considering the new definition of leases established by IFRS 16. m. Intangible assets Intangible assets are recognized when they meet the following conditions: they are identifiable, they provide future economic benefits and the Company has control over such benefits. Intangible assets are classified as follows: i. Finite useful life These assets are recognized at cost less accumulated amortization and accrued impairment losses. They are amortized on a straightline basis over their estimated useful life, determined based on the expectation of generating future economic benefits, and are subject to impairment tests when triggering events of impairment are identified. 100 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 The estimated useful lives of intangible assets with finite useful lives are summarized as follows: Years Software and licenses 3-7 Concessions 20 30 Capacity of communications network 13 Other 4 To do and not to do obligations 3 Trademarks 5 Relationships with customers 15 a. Trademarks Trademarks acquired in a separate transaction are recorded at acquisition cost. Trademarks acquired in a business combination are recognized at fair value at the acquisition date. Trademarks are amortized according to their useful life based on the Company´s evaluation; if in this evaluation the useful life proves to be indefinite, then trademarks are not amortized but subject to annual impairment tests. b. Licenses Licenses acquired in a separate transaction are recorded at acquisition cost. Licenses acquired in a business combination are recognized at fair value at acquisition date. Licenses that have a definite useful life are presented at cost less accumulated amortization. Amortization is recorded on a straight-line basis over its estimated useful life. The acquisition of software licenses is capitalized based on the costs incurred to acquire and use the specific software. ii. Indefinite useful life These intangible assets are not amortized and are subject to annual impairment assessment. As of December 31, 2019 and 2018, intangible assets with an indefinite life corresponds to goodwill. n. Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the acquisition cost of a subsidiary over the Company’s interest in the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired, determined at the date of acquisition, and is not subject to amortization. Goodwill is shown under goodwill and intangible assets and is recognized at cost less accumulated impairment losses, which are not reversed. Gains or losses on the disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold. ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 101 o. Impairment of non-financial assets Assets that have an indefinite useful life, for example goodwill, are not depreciable or amortizable and are subject to annual impairment tests. Assets that are subject to amortization are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. An impairment loss is recognized for the amount by which the asset’s carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of the asset’s fair value less costs to sell and its value in use. For the purpose of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels at which separately identifiable cash flows exist (cash generating units). Non-financial long-term assets other than goodwill that have suffered impairment are reviewed for a possible reversal of the impairment at each reporting date. p. Income tax The amount of income taxes in the consolidated statement of operations represents the sum of current and deferred income taxes. The amount of income taxes included in the consolidated statement of operations represents the current tax of the year and the effects of deferred income tax determined in each subsidiary by the assets and liabilities method, applying the rate established by the legislation enacted or substantially enacted at the statement of financial position date, wherever the Company operates, and generates taxable income on the total temporary differences resulting from comparing the accounting and tax bases of assets and liabilities, and that are expected to be applied when the deferred tax asset is realized or the deferred tax liability is expected to be settled, considering, when applicable, any tax-loss carryforwards, prior to the recovery analysis. The effect of a change in current tax rates is recognized in profit or loss of the period in which the rate change is determined. Management periodically evaluates positions taken in tax returns with respect to situations in which the applicable law is subject to interpretation. Provisions are recognized when appropriate based on the amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities. Deferred tax assets are recognized only when it is probable that future taxable profits will exist against which the deductions for temporary differences can be taken. Deferred income tax on temporary differences arising from investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint agreements is recognized, unless the period of reversal of temporary differences is controlled by Axtel and it is probable that the temporary differences will not revert in the near future. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when a legal right exists and when the taxes are levied by the same tax authority. q. Employee benefits i. Pension plans Defined contribution plans: A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which the Company pays fixed contributions to a separate entity. The Company has no legal or constructive obligations to pay further contributions if the fund does not hold sufficient assets to pay all employees the benefits relating to their service in the current and past periods. The contributions are recognized as employee benefit expense on the date that the contribution is required. Defined benefit plans: A defined benefit plan is a plan which specifies the amount of the pension an employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of service and compensation. The liability recognized in the consolidated statement of financial position in respect of defined benefit plans is the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the consolidated statement of financial position date less the fair value of plan assets. The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent third parties using the projected unit credit method. The present value of the defined 102 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using discount rates in conformity with IAS 19, Employee Benefits, that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and have maturities that approximate the terms of the pension liability. Actuarial remeasurements arising from adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are recognized directly in other items of the comprehensive (loss) income in the year as they occur, and there will be no reclassified to profit or loss of the period. The Company determines the net finance expense (income) by applying the discount rate to the liability (asset) from net defined benefits. Past-service costs are recognized immediately in the consolidated statement of operations. ii. Post-employment medical benefits The Company provides medical benefits to retired employees after termination of employment. The right to access these benefits usually depends on the employee having worked until retirement age and completing a minimum of years of service. The expected costs of these benefits are accrued over the period of employment using the same criteria as those described for defined benefit pension plans. iii. Termination benefits Termination benefits are payable when employment is terminated by the Company before the normal retirement date or when an employee accepts voluntary termination of employment in exchange for these benefits. The Company recognizes termination benefits on the following dates, whichever occurs first: (a) when the Company can no longer withdraw the offer of these benefits, and (b) when the Company recognizes the costs from restructuring within the scope of the IAS 37 and it involves the payment of termination benefits. If there is an offer that promotes the termination of the employment relationship voluntarily by employees, termination benefits are valued based on the number of employees expected to accept the offer. The benefits that will be paid in the long term are discounted at their present value. iv. Short-term benefits The Company provides benefits to employees in the short term, which may include wages, salaries, annual compensation and bonuses payable within 12 months. The Company recognizes an undiscounted provision when it is contractually obligated or when past practice has created an obligation. v. Statutory employee profit sharing (PTU in Spanish) and bonuses The Company recognizes a liability and an expense for bonuses and statutory employee profit sharing when it has a legal or assumed obligation to pay these benefits and determines the amount to be recognized based on the tax profit for the year after certain adjustments. r. Provisions Liability provisions represent a present legal obligation or a constructive obligation as a result of past events where an outflow of resources to meet the obligation is likely and where the amount has been reliably estimated. Provisions are not recognized for future operating losses. Provisions are measured at the present value of the expenditures expected to be required to settle the obligation using a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the value of money over time and the risks specific to the obligation. The increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognized as interest expense. When there are similar obligations, the likelihood that an outflow will be required in settlement is determined by considering the class of obligations as a whole. A provision is recognized even if the likelihood of an outflow with respect to any one item included in the same class of obligations may be small. ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 103 A restructuring provision is recorded when the Company has developed a formal detailed plan for the restructure, and a valid expectation for the restructure has been created between the people affected, possibly for having started the plan implementation or for having announced its main characteristics to them. s. Share-based payments The Company has compensation plans that are based on the market value of shares of Alfa and Axtel, granted to certain senior executives of the Company. The conditions for granting such compensation to the eligible executives includes compliance with certain financial metrics such as level of profit achieved and remaining in the Company for up to 5 years, among other requirements. Alfa’s Board of Directors has appointed a Technical Committee to manage the plan, and it reviews the estimated cash settlement of this compensation at the end of the year. The payment of the plan is always subject to the discretion of Alfa’s senior management. Adjustments to this estimate are charged or credited to the consolidated statement of operations. Fair value of the amount payable to employees in respect of share-based payments, which are settled in cash, is recognized as an administrative expense in the consolidated statement of operations, with a corresponding increase in liabilities, over the period of service required. The liability is included within other liabilities and is adjusted at each reporting date and at settlement date. Any change in the fair value of the liability is recognized as an expense in the consolidated statement of operations. t. Treasury shares The Company’s stockholders periodically authorize a maximum amount for the acquisition of the Company’s own shares. Upon the occurrence of a repurchase of its own shares, they become treasury shares and the amount is presented as a reduction to stockholders’ equity at the purchase price. These amounts are stated at their historical value. u. Capital stock Axtel’s common shares are classified as capital stock within shareholders’ equity. Incremental costs directly attributable to the issuance of new shares are included in equity as a reduction from the consideration received, net of tax. v. Comprehensive (loss) income Comprehensive (loss) income is comprised of net (loss) income plus the annual effects of other reserves, net of taxes, which include the translation of foreign subsidiaries, actuarial remeasurements, the effects of the change in the fair value of derivative financial instruments which are designated to cash flow hedges, and other items specifically required to be reflected in shareholders’ equity, and which do not constitute capital contributions, reductions and distributions. w. Segment reporting Segment information is presented consistently with the internal reporting provided to the Chief Executive Officer, who is the highest authority in operational decision-making, resource allocation and assessment of operating segment performance. x. Revenue recognition Revenues comprise the fair value of the consideration received or for the sale of goods and services in the ordinary course of the transactions, and are presented in the consolidated statement of operations, net of the amount of variable considerations, which comprise the estimated amount of returns from customers, rebates and similar discounts and payments made to customers so that goods are accommodated in attractive and favorable spaces at their facilities. To recognize revenues from contracts with customers, the comprehensive model for revenue accounting is used, which is based on a five-step approach consisting of the following: (1) identify the contract; (2) identify performance obligations in the contract; (3) determine the transaction price; (4) allocate the transaction price to each performance obligation in the contract; and (5) recognize the revenue when the company satisfies a performance obligation. 104 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 The Company maintains managed service agreements with customers from Government and business segments, which may include multiple deliverables mainly consisting of the delivery of equipment and provision of telecommunications services and information technologies. The Company evaluates certain agreements, in which it identifies more than one separable performance obligation, which consists of the equipment used to provide the service and that is installed in the facilities of the customers. In addition to the equipment, telecommunications and information technologies are identified as another separable performance obligation. Where the equipment delivered to the customer is a separable performance obligation of the service, the Company assigns the price of managed service agreements to the performance obligations identified and described in the preceding paragraph according to independent market values and related discounts. The Company recognizes the revenue derived from managed services agreements, as follows: Revenues from equipment installed in the facilities of customers is recognized upon transfer of control or right to use them; i.e., at some point in time. This performance obligation has a significant financial component; therefore, revenues are recognized in accordance with the effective interest rate method over the term of the agreement. Revenues from services are recognized as they are provided; i.e. as the customer consumes them in relation to services of voice, data and general telecommunications. Dividend income from investments is recognized once the rights of shareholders to receive this payment have been established (when it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Company and the revenue can be reliably measured). Interest income is recognized when it is likely that the economic benefits will flow to the entity and the amount of revenue can be reliably measured by applying the effective interest rate. Costs of acquiring new contracts are recognized as contractual assets and are amortized over the period of those contracts in profit or loss, which is when they will generate economic benefits. y. Advances from customers Customer prepayments for cable, interconnection, data transmission, internet and local services are billed monthly and applied to profit or loss as revenue for the period as the services are provided. The Company’s deferred income are recorded based on the commitment to provide a service to the customers, and the service is recognized in profit or loss as it is provided. z. Earnings per share Earnings per share are calculated by dividing the profit attributable to the shareholders by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the year. 4. Financial instruments and financial risk management The Company’s activities expose it to various financial risks: market risk (including exchange rate risks, interest rate risk on cash flows and interest rate risk on fair values), credit risk and liquidity risk. The Company has a general risk management program focused on the unpredictability of financial markets, and seeks to minimize the potential adverse effects on its financial performance. The objective of the risk management program is to protect the financial health of the businesses, taking into account the volatility associated with foreign exchange and interest rates. Sometimes, regarding market risks, the Company uses derivative financial instruments to hedge certain exposures to risks. Alfa (holding company) has a Risk Management Committee (RMC), comprised of the Board’s Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”), Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”) of Alfa and the Risk Management Officer (“RMO”) of Alfa acting as technical secretary. The ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 105 RMC reviews derivative transactions proposed by the subsidiaries of Alfa, including Axtel, in which a potential loss analysis surpasses US$1 million. This committee supports both the CEO and the Board’s Chairman of the Company. All new derivative transactions, which the Company proposes to enter into, as well as the renewal or cancellation of derivative arrangements, must be approved by both the Company and Alfa’s CEO, in accordance to the following schedule of authorizations: Maximum Possible Loss US$1 million Individual Annual cumulative transaction transactions Chief Executive Officer of Alfa 1 5 Risk Management Committee of Alfa 30 100 Finance Committee 100 300 Board of Directors of Alfa >100 >300 The proposed transactions must meet certain criteria, including that the hedges are lower than established risk parameters, and that they are the result of a detailed analysis and properly documented. Sensitivity analysis and other risk analyses should be performed before the transactions are entered into. Capital management The Company’s objectives when managing capital is to safeguard its ability to continue as a going concern, so that it can continue to provide returns to shareholders and benefits to other stakeholders, as well as maintaining an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital. To maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Company may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return equity to shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt. Axtel monitors capital based on a leverage ratio. This percentage is calculated by dividing total liabilities by total equity. The financial ratio of total liabilities / total equity was 6.13 times and 6.78 times as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, resulting on a leverage ratio that meets the Company’s management and risk policies. 106 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 Financial instruments per category Below are the Company’s financial instruments by category: As of December 31, 2019 2018 Cash and cash equivalents $857,742 $2,249,155 Restricted cash 93,908 Financial assets at amortized cost: Trade and other accounts receivable 3,310,000 2,908,133 Financial assets at fair value with changes through profit or loss (1) Financial instruments (zero strike call) 92,673 129,075 Derivative financial instruments (1) 23,591 Total financial assets $4,260,415 $5,403,862 Financial liabilities at amortized cost: Current debt $131,632 $465,828 Lease liability 866,098 Trade payables, related parties and sundry creditors 2,905,871 5,412,913 Non-current debt 13,836,310 15,156,918 Other non-current accounts payable 703,348 4,033 Financial liabilities measured at fair value with changes in results: Derivative financial instruments (1) 143,712 39,258 Total financial liabilities $18,586,971 $21,078,950 (1) The Company designated the derivative financial instruments that comprise this balance, as hedges for accounting purposes, in accordance with what is described later in Note 4. Fair value of financial assets and liabilities valued at amortized cost The amount of cash and cash equivalents, trade and other accounts receivable, other current assets, trade payables and other accounts payable, current debt, current provisions and other current liabilities approximate their fair value since their maturity date is less than twelve months. The net carrying amount of these accounts represents the expected cash flow at December 31, 2019 and 2018. ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 107 The carrying amount and estimated fair value of financial assets and liabilities valued at amortized cost is presented below: As of December As of December 31, 2019 31, 2018 Carrying Fair Carrying Fair amount value amount value Financial liabilities: Debt (*) $14,006,129 $14,737,276 $14,974,979 $14,212,680 Accounts payable to related parties 703,348 631,017 (*) The carrying amount of debt, for purposes of calculating its fair value, is presented gross of interest payable and issuance costs. The estimated fair values as of December 31, 2019 and 2018 were determined based on discounted cash flows, using rates that reflect a similar credit risk depending on the currency, maturity period and country where the debt was acquired, regarding financial liabilities with financial institutions, finance leases, other liabilities and related parties. The primary rates used are the Interbank Equilibrium Interest Rate (“TIIE” for its acronym in Spanish) for instruments in Mexican pesos and London Interbank Offer Rate (“LIBOR”) for instruments in U.S. dollars. In the case of Senior Notes issued in international markets, the Company uses the market price of such Notes at the date of the consolidated financial statements. For purposes of disclosure, measurement at fair value of financial assets and liabilities valued at amortized cost is deemed within Level 1 and 2 of the fair value hierarchy. Market risk (i). Exchange rate risk The Company is exposed to the exchange risk arising from exposure of its currency, mainly with respect to the U.S. dollar. Axtel’s indebtedness and part of its accounts payable are stated in U.S. dollars, which means that it is exposed to the risk of variations in the exchange rate. The Company’s interest expense on the dollar debt, stated in Mexican pesos in the Axtel consolidated financial statements, varies with the movements in the exchange rate. Depreciation of the peso gives rise to increases in the interest expense recorded in pesos. The Company records exchange gains or losses when the Mexican peso appreciates or depreciates against the U.S. dollar. Due to the fact that the Company’s monetary liabilities denominated in dollars have exceeded (and are expected to continue exceeding) Axtel’s monetary assets stated in that same currency, depreciation of the Mexican peso to the U.S. dollar will give rise to exchange losses. The Company has the following assets and liabilities in foreign currency in relation to the functional currency of its subsidiaries, translated to thousands of Mexican pesos at the closing exchange rate as of December 31, 2019: USD (translated to thousands of MXP) Financial assets $701,548 Financial liabilities (11,019,701) Foreign exchange monetary position $(10,318,153) 108 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 During 2019 and 2018, Axtel contracted several derivative financial instruments, mainly forwards, to hedge this risk. These derivatives have been designated at fair value with changes through profit or loss for accounting purposes as explained in the next section of this note. Based on the financial positions in foreign currency maintained by the Company, a hypothetical variation of 10% in the MXN/USD exchange rate and keeping all other variables constant, would result in an effect of $1,031,815 on the consolidated statement of operations and shareholders’ equity. Financial instruments and derivative financial instruments Financial instruments As of December 31, 2019 and 2018, the Company has entered into Over the Counter (OTC) transaction agreements with Bank of America Merrill Lynch (BAML) and Corporativo GBM, S. A. B. de C. V. (GBM) denominated “Zero Strike Call” or options, at a price closely resembling zero. The asset underlying these instruments is the market value of Axtel’s CPOs. The contracts signed prior to October 2016 can only be settled in cash. As from that date, the term of the contracts yet to be settled was extended and as a result of this negotiation, the settlement method can be in cash or in shares, as decided by the Company. The original term of these contracts is 6 months and can be extended by mutual agreement between the parties; however, as this is an American type option, the Company can exercise it at any given time prior to the date of maturity. According to the contracts, in case of deciding for payment in cash, the amount to be settled will be calculated as per the following formula: Number of options per option right per (reference price exercise price). Where: Number of options = defined in the contract Right of option = defined as 1 “share” per option, defining “share” as Bloomberg Code AxtelCPO MM. Reference price = “The price per share that GBM receives upon settling the position of the hedges thereof, under commercially reasonable terms, discounting commissions and taxes”. Exercise price = 0.000001 pesos The Company determined the classification and measurement of these contracts as financial assets at fair value with changes through profit or loss. As of December 31, 2019 and 2018, the lending position of the options represents the maximum amount of its credit exposure, as showed below: Counterparty Notional Agreement Type of Fair value amount beginning underlying date asset 2019 2018 Bank of America Merrill Lynch 30,384,700 2010 y 2009 CPO’s Axtel $92,673 $90,243 Corporativo GBM, S. A. B. de C. V.(1) 13,074,982 2015 y 2014 CPO’s Axtel 38,832 $92,673 $129,075 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 109 For the year ended December 31, 2019, the changes in fair value of the Zero Strike Calls gave rise to an unrealized loss of $8,919 (unrealized loss of $35,202 for the year ended December 31, 2018), recognized in the consolidated statement of operations within financial income and expenses. (1) The financial instrument was exercised in May and June 2019. Derivative financial instruments Beginning on January 1, 2018, the Company designated its derivative financial instruments contracted during the year as cash flow accounting hedges. As of December 31, 2019 and 2018, the Company maintained the following derivative financial instruments: a. Interest Rate Swap (IRS) with the purpose of mitigating risks associated with the variability of its interest rates. The Company maintains interest-bearing liabilities at variable rates, which is why it is exposed to the variability of the reference interest rate (TIIE). Therefore, the Company entered into an IRS and hedged the interest payments associated with two debt instruments; the conditions of the derivative financial instrument and the considerations of its valuation as a hedging instrument are mentioned below: Characteristics 2019 2018 Currency MXN MXN Notional $3,380,000 $3,380,000 Coupon TIIE28 TIIE28 Coupon 8.355% 8.355% Maturity December 15, 2022 December 15, 2022 Swap book value $(137,177) $ 23,591 Change in the fair value of the swap to measure ineffectiveness $(135,329) $ 24,477 Reclassification from OCI to income $653 $214 Recognized in OCI net of reclassifications $136,524 $(23,804) Ineffectiveness recognized in income Change in the fair value of the hedged item to measure ineffectiveness $147,478 $(25,031) Change in the fair value DFI vs. 2018 $(160,768) For accounting purposes, the Company has designated the IRS described above as a cash flow hedge to mitigate interest rate volatility of two financial liabilities, formally documenting the relationship, establishing the objectives, management’s strategy to hedge the risk, the hedging instrument identified, the hedged item, the nature of the risk to be hedged and the methodology of used to evaluate the hedge effectiveness. As of December 31, 2019 and 2018, the results of the effectiveness of this hedge confirms that the hedge relationship is highly effective, given that the changes in the fair value and cash flows of the hedged item are compensated in the range of effectiveness established by the Company. The prospective effectiveness test resulted in 100% and 99%, in 2019 and 2018, respectively, confirming that there is 110 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 an economic relationship between the hedging instruments and the hedged instrument. The method used by the Company is to offset cash flows using a hypothetical derivative, which consists of comparing the changes in the fair value of the hedging instrument with the changes in the fair value of the hypothetical derivative that would result in a perfect coverage of the covered item. According to the amount described and the way in which the derivative cash flows are exchanged, for this hedging strategy, the average hedge ratio is 93% and 95%, in 2019 and 2018, respectively. In this hedge relationship, the source of ineffectiveness is mainly credit risk. b. Forwards of accounting hedge with the objective of covering the exposure to the USD / MXN exchange rate variability. Because the Company has the Mexican peso (MXN) as the functional currency and maintains obligations in USD, it is exposed to foreign exchange risk. Therefore, it has designated forward contracts as accounting hedges, where the hedged item is represented by obligations in USD and by the exchange fluctuation of the bond; the conditions of the derivative financial instruments and the considerations of their valuation as hedging instruments are mentioned below: Characteristics 2019 2018 Currency USD USD Total notional US$15,900 US$93,868 Average strike 19.6560 Maturity MXN/USD 20.54 MXN/USD Forward’s book value 12 mayo 2020 enero-julio 2019 Change in the fair value of the forwards $(6,535) $(39,258) to measure ineffectiveness $(6,535) $(39,258) Reclassification from OCI to income $4,043 $ 4,316 Recognized in OCI net of reclassifications $2,492 $35,762 Ineffectiveness recognized in income Change in the fair value of the hedged item to measure ineffectiveness $6,535 $39,258 Change in the fair value FDI vs 2018 $32,723 In measuring the effectiveness of these hedges, the Company determined that they are highly effective because the changes in the fair value and cash flows of each hedged item are offset within the range of effectiveness established by management. The prospective effectiveness test for the USD / MXN exchange rate ratio resulted in 100%, confirming that there is an economic relationship between the hedging instruments and the instruments hedged. In addition, both the credit profile of the Company and the counterparty are good and are not expected to change in the medium term; therefore, the credit risk component is not considered to dominate the hedging relationship. The method that was used to evaluate the effectiveness is through a qualitative evaluation comparing the critical terms between the hedging instrument and the hedged instrument. According to the notional amounts described and the way in which the flows of the derivatives are exchanged, the average hedging ratio for the USD / MXN exchange rate is 100% for USD obligations in 2019 and 46% for 2018. If necessary, a rebalancing will be performed to maintain this relationship for the strategy. The source of ineffectiveness can be mainly caused by the difference in the settlement date of the hedging instruments and the hedged items, and that the budget becomes less than the hedging instruments. For the year ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, no ineffectiveness was recognized in gain or loss. ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 111 Interest rate and cash flow risk The Company’s interest rate risk arises from long-term loans. Loans at variable rates expose the Company to interest rate risks in cash flows that are partially offset by cash held at variable rates. Loans at fixed rates expose the Company to interest rate risk at fair value. As of December 31, 2019, 33% of Axtel’s total debt generates variable interest rates while the remaining 67% generates fixed interest rates. The Company analyzes its exposure to interest rate risk on a dynamic basis. Several scenarios are simulated, taking into account the refinancing, renewal of existing positions, financing and alternative coverage. Based on these scenarios, the Company calculates the impact on the annual result of a change in the interest rate defined for each simulation, using the same change in the interest rate for all currencies. The scenarios are produced only for liabilities that represent the main positions that generate the highest interest. Axtel’s results and cash flows can be impacted if additional financing is required in the future when interest rates are high in relation to the Company’s current conditions. As of December 31, 2019, if the interest rates on variable rate loans were increased or decreased by 100 basis points, the interest expense would affect the results and stockholders’ equity by $45,835 and $(45,835) respectively. Credit risk Credit risk represents the risk of financial loss for the Company, if a customer or counterpart of a financial instruments defaults on its contractual obligations, mainly in connection with accounts receivable from customers, as well as from investment instruments. Account receivables The Company evaluates and aggregates groups of clients that share a credit risk profile, in accordance with the service channel in which they operate, in line with business management and internal risk management. The Company is responsible for managing and analyzing the credit risk for each of its new customers prior to establishing the terms and conditions of payment to offer. Credit risk arises from exposure of credit to customers, including accounts receivable. If there is no independent rating in place, the Company evaluates the credit risk pertaining to its customers, taking into account the financial position, past experience and other factors such as historical lows, net recoveries and an analysis of accounts receivable balances aging with reserves that are usually increased to the extent the accounts receivable increases in age. The credit risk concentration is moderate due to the number of unrelated clients. Axtel determines its allowance for impairment of accounts receivable taking into account the probability of recovery, based on past experiences, as well as current collection trends and overall economic factors. Accounts receivable are entirely reserved when there are specific collection problems; based on past experience. Moreover, collection problems such as bankruptcy or catastrophes are also taken into account. Accounts receivable are analyzed monthly, and the allowance for impairment of accounts receivable is adjusted in profit or loss. Additionally, the Company performs a qualitative evaluation of economic projections, in order to determine the possible impact on probabilities of default and the recovery rate assigned to its customers. Finally, in the evaluation of the derecognition of an account receivable, the Company evaluates whether there is any current expectation of recovery of the asset, before proceeding to execute the corresponding derecognition. During the year ended December 31, 2019, there have been no changes in estimation techniques or assumptions. Axtel conducts an economic evaluation of the efforts necessary to initiate legal proceedings for the recovery of past-due balances. Other than Companies A and B, which are the Company’s main customers, the Company has no significant exposure to credit risk involving a single customer or group of customers with similar characteristics. A group of customers is considered to have similar characteristics when they are related parties. The credit risk concentration of companies A and B must not exceed 20% of the gross 112 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 amount of financial assets at any given moment during the year. The credit risk concentration of any other customer must not exceed 5% of the gross amount of monetary assets at any given moment during the year. Company A accounts for 4% and 3% of the Company’s total accounts receivable as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Additionally, revenues associated to Company A for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 was 2% and 2%, respectively. Company B accounts for 4% and 5% of the Company’s total accounts receivable as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Additionally, revenues related to Company B for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 was 3% and 2%, respectively. As of December 31, 2019 and 2018, the allowance for impairment totaled $1,208,739 and $2,172,343 respectively. Axtel considers this allowance to be sufficient to cover for the probable loss of accounts receivable; however, it cannot ensure that it will not need to be increased. Investments The Company’s policies for managing cash and temporary cash investments are conservative, which allows for minimizing risk in this type of financial asset, taking into account also that operations are only conducted with financial institutions with high credit ratings. The Company’s maximum exposure to credit risk is equivalent to the total carrying amount of its financial assets. Liquidity risk The Company’s finance department continuously monitors the cash flows’ projections and the Company’s liquidity requirements, ensuring that cash and investments in marketable securities are sufficient to meet operating needs. The Company regularly monitors and makes its decisions based on not violating its limits or covenants established in its debt contracts. Projections consider the Company’s financing plans, compliance with covenants, compliance with minimum internal liquidity ratios and legal or regulatory requirements. Management’s responsibility with respect to liquidity risk corresponds to the Company’s board of directors, which has established a general framework for proper handling of liquidity risk in the short, medium and long term. The Company manages liquidity risks, maintaining a proper level of reserves, use of credit lines from banks, and is vigilant of real and projected cash flows. The following table includes the Company’s derivative and non-derivative financial liabilities grouped according to maturity from the reporting date to the contractual maturity date. Derivative financial liabilities are included in the analysis if their contractual maturities are required to understand the terms of the Company’s cash flows. The figures shown in the chart are the non-discounted contractual cash flows. ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 113 Less than Between 1 More than 1 year and 5 years 5 years December 31, 2019 Current debt $131,632 $$Trade payable, related parties and creditors 4,288,038 Derivative financial instruments 51,814 91,898 Non-current debt 11,355,748 2,630,602 Lease liability 451,775 401,335 12,988 Non-accrued interest payable 1,094,108 3,953,055 706,960 December 31, 2018 Current debt $123,847 $$Trade payable, related parties and creditors 7,938,944 Derivative financial instruments 39,258 Non-current debt 2,275,469 12,699,510 Finance leases 341,981 398,133 Non-accrued interest payable 1,222,225 4,410,428 1,629,496 The Company expects to meet its obligations with the cash flows provided by operations and/or cash flows provided by its main shareholders. Furthermore, the Company has access to credit lines as mentioned in Note 17. As of December 31, 2019, the Company has short-term uncommitted, unused lines of credit of more than US$16,000 ($301,600). Additionally, as of December 31, 2019, Axtel has medium-term committed lines of credit of US$50,000 ($942,500). Fair value hierarchy The following is an analysis of financial instruments measured in accordance with the fair value hierarchy. Three different levels are used as presented below: Level 1: Quoted prices for identical instruments in active markets. Level 2: Other valuations including quoted prices for similar instruments in active markets, which are directly or indirectly observable. Level 3: Valuations made through techniques where one or more of their significant data inputs are unobservable. 114 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 The following table presents the Company’s assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value as of December 31, 2019 and 2018: As of December 31, 2019 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Financial assets: $92,673 $$$92,673 Zero strike calls (6,535) (6,535) Forwards (137,177) (137,177) Interest rate swap $92,673 $(143,712) $$(51,039) As of December 31, 2018 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Financial assets: $129,075 $$$129,075 Zero strike calls (39,258) (39,258) Forwards 23,591 23,591 Interest rate swap $129,075 $(15,667) $$113,408 There were no transfers between Level 1 and 2 or between Level 2 and 3 during the period. The specific valuation techniques used to value financial instruments include: Market quotations or quotations for similar instruments. The fair value of forward exchange agreements is determined using exchange rates at the closing balance date, with the resulting value discounted at present value. Other techniques such as the analysis of discounted cash flows, which are used to determine fair value of the remaining financial instruments. 5. Critical accounting estimates and significant judgments Estimates and judgments are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. The Company makes estimates and assumptions concerning the future. The resulting accounting estimates will, by definition, seldom equal the related actual results. The estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are addressed below: a. Long-lived assets The Company estimates the useful lives of long-lived assets in order to determine the depreciation and amortization expenses to be recorded during the reporting period. The useful life of an asset is calculated when the asset is acquired and is based on past ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 115 experience with similar assets, considering anticipated technological changes or any other type of changes. Were technological changes to occur faster than estimated, or differently than anticipated, the useful lives assigned to these assets could have to be reduced. This would lead to the recognition of a greater depreciation and amortization expense in future periods. Alternatively, these types of technological changes could result in the recognition of a charge for impairment to reflect the reduction in the expected future economic benefits associated with the assets. The Company reviews depreciable and amortizable assets on an annual basis for signs of impairment, or when certain events or circumstances indicate that the book value may not be recovered during the remaining useful life of the assets. For intangible assets with an indefinite useful life, the Company performs impairment tests annually and at any time that there is an indication that the asset may be impaired. To test for impairment, the Company uses projected cash flows, which consider the estimates of future transactions, including estimates of revenues, costs, operating expenses, capital expenditures and debt service. In accordance with IFRS, discounted future cash flows associated with an asset or CGU are compared to the book value of the asset or CGU being tested to determine if impairment exists whenever the aforementioned discounted future cash flows are less than its book value. In such case, the carrying amount of the asset or group of assets is reduced to its value in use, unless its fair value is higher. b. Estimated impairment of goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives The Company conducts annual tests to determine whether goodwill and intangibles assets with indefinite useful lives have suffered any impairment (Note 11). For impairment testing, goodwill and intangibles assets with indefinite lives is allocated with those cash generating units (CGUs) of which the Company has considered that economic and operational synergies of the business combinations are generated. The recoverable amounts of the groups of CGUs were determined based on the calculations of their value in use, which require the use of estimates, within which, the most significant are the following: Estimation of future gross and operating margins according to the historical performance and expectations of the industry for each CGU group. Discount rate based on the weighted cost of capital (WACC) of each CGU or CGU group. Long-term growth rates. c. Recoverability of deferred tax assets The Company has applicable tax-loss carryforwards, which can be used in the following years until maturity expires (see Note 18). Based on the projections of income and taxable income that the Company will generate in the following years through a structured and robust business plan, management has considered that current tax losses will be used before they expire and, therefore, it was considered appropriate to recognize a deferred tax asset for such losses. d. Commitments and contingencies The Company exercises its judgment in measuring and recognizing provisions and the exposures to contingent liabilities related to pending litigation or other pending claims subject to negotiation for liquidation, mediation, arbitrage or government regulation, as well as other contingent liabilities. The Company applies its judgment to evaluate the probability that a pending claim is effective, or results in recognition of a liability, and to quantify the possible range of the liquidation. Due to the uncertainty inherent to this evaluation process, actual losses could differ from the provision originally estimated. Contingencies are recorded as provisions when a liability has probably been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. It is not practical to conduct an estimate regarding the sensitivity to potential losses, of all other assumptions have been made to record these provisions, due to the number of underlying assumptions and to the range of reasonable results possible, in connection with the potential actions of third parties, such as regulators, both in terms of probability of loss and estimates of said loss. 116 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 e. Default probability and recovery rate to apply the expected credit losses model in the impairment measurement of financial assets The Company assigns to customers with whom it has an account receivable at each reporting date, either individually or as a group, an allowance for the probability of default in the account receivable and the estimated recovery rate, in order to reflect the cash flows expected to be received from the outstanding balances as of that date. f. Estimation of the discount rate to calculate the present value of future minimum lease payments The Company estimates the discount rate to use in the determination of the lease liability, based on the incremental borrowing rate (“IBR”). The Company uses a three-tier model, with which it determines the three elements that comprises the discount rate: (i) reference rate, (ii) credit risk component and (iii) adjustment for characteristics of the underlying asset. In this model, management also considers its policies and practices to obtain financing, distinguishing between the one obtained at the corporate level (that is, the holding company), or at the level of each subsidiary. Finally, for real estate leases, or in which there is significant and observable evidence of their residual value, the Company estimates and evaluates an adjustment for characteristics of the underlying asset, based on the possibility that said asset is granted as collateral or guarantee against the risk of default. g. g. Estimation of the lease term The Company defines the lease term as the period for which there is a contractual payment commitment, considering the noncancelable period of the contract, as well as the renewal and early termination options that are probable to be exercised. The Company participates in lease contracts that do not have a defined non-cancellable term, a defined renewal period (in case it contains a renewal clause), or automatic annual renewals, so, to measure the lease liability, it estimates the contracts term considering their contractual rights and limitations, their business plan, as well as management’s intentions for the use of the underlying asset. Additionally, the Company considers the clauses of early termination of its contracts and the probability of exercising them, as part of its estimate of the lease term. 6. Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents presented in the consolidated statement of financial position consist of the following: 2019 2018 Cash on hand and in banks $139,197 $488,987 Short-term investments 718,545 1,760,168 Total cash and cash equivalents $857,742 $2,249,155 7. Restricted cash Alestra filed a complaint with the Federal Telecommunications Institute (IFT from Spanish) in connection with a dispute on the resale interconnection rates established between Alestra and Telmex and Teléfonos del Norte (“Telnor”, a subsidiary of Telmex). The restricted cash as of December 31, 2018 of $93,908 represents the trust balance over applicable disputes for 2008 and 2010 and is shown in the consolidated statement of financial position as a non-current asset. On May 10, 2018, Alestra was granted a favorable ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 117 ruling and the withdrawal of the amounts contributed to the trust and their corresponding returns, obtaining the proceeds of $59,005 and $19,874 in November 2018. As of December 31, 2019, the restricted cash balance is $0 because on February 28, 2019, a ruling was handed down in favor of Alestra allowing the withdrawal of the outstanding balance of the amounts contributed to the trust and its corresponding returns. 8. Trade and other accounts receivable, net Trade and other accounts receivable are comprised as follows: 2019 2018 Current: $3,634,751 $4,832,433 Trade accounts receivable (1,208,739) (2,172,343) Allowance for impairment of accounts receivable (1) 2,426,012 2,660,090 Trade accounts receivable, net 34,674 685,748 Recoverable taxes 860,528 192,938 Notes and other accounts receivable 23,460 55,105 Related parties $3,344,674 $3,593,881 (1) Movements of the allowance for impairment of accounts receivables are as follows: 2019 2018 Initial balance $2,172,343 $2,089,484 Write-off of doubtful accounts 45,631 114,207 Allowance for doubtful accounts for the year(2) (1,009,235) (31,348) Ending balance $1,208,739 $2,172,343 (2) The increases in the allowance in 2019 are mainly due to the increase in the probability of default assigned to certain customers with respect to the beginning of the year, in which the new methodology for impairment of financial assets was applied. In addition, they consider the reversals of impairment that arise when an account receivable, which had previously been impaired, becomes recoverable because the customer settled the outstanding balance. The following describes the probability ranges of default and recovery rates allocated to the main customer segments with which the company has balances receivable in its different businesses: As of December 31, 2019 As of December 31, 2018 Clients Probability Clients Probability Severity Severity or group range of or group range of of loss of loss of clients default of clients default Carriers 1.0% 100.0% 85.74% Masivo 5.6% 100.0% 96.00% Business 1.6% 100.0% 85.74% Carriers 0.9% 100.0% 87.50% Government 0.3% 100.0% 68.78% Empresarial 1.0% 100.0% 87.50% Gobierno 2.9% 100.0% 70.00% 118 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 9. Inventories As of December 31, 2019 and 2018, inventories of $93,982 and $104,802, respectively, were composed by materials and consumables. The cost of inventories recognized as an expense and included in the cost of sales amounted to $141,649 and $161,390 for 2019 and 2018, respectively. As of December 31, 2019 and 2018, there were no inventories pledged as collateral. 10. Property, plant and equipment Depreciable assets Non-depreciable assets TelecommuniLeasehold Office Computers Vehicles improveInvestments Buildings cations Land Total equipment ments in process network For the year ended December 31, 2018 Net opening balance $1,055,169 $ 14,677,418 $100,880 $388,607 $ 31,901 $ 92,862 $481,905 $2,447,068 $19,275,810 Translation effect (143) (143) Additions 173,668 90 3,284 2,740 13 2,371,685 2,551,480 Transfers 29,319 3,459,853 15,809 133,509 3,147 27,232 (3,668,869) Transfers held for sale (300,307) (49) (1,188) (344) (102) (5,845) (307,835) Disposals (1,432,324) (1,376) (3,950) (1,290) (572) (74,201) (1,513,713) Depreciation charge recognized in the year (28,305) (3,604,028) (21,878) (207,955) (15,160) (22,749) (3,900,075) Ending balance $1,056,183 $12,974,137 $93,476 $312,307 $20,994 $96,684 $481,905 $1,069,838 $16,105,524 As of December 31, 2018 Cost $1,458,435 $53,888,456 $519,966 $ 4,961,739 $192,885 $630,384 $481,905 $1,069,838 $63,203,608 Accumulated depreciation (402,252) (40,914,319) (426,490) (4,649,432) (171,891) (533,700) (47,098,084) Net carrying amount as of December 31, 2018 $1,056,183 $12,974,137 $93,476 $312,307 $20,994 $96,684 $481,905 $1,069,838 $16,105,524 For the year ended December 31, 2019 Reclassifications to the right of use $$(217,449) $(721) $(51,092) $(6,862) $$$$(276,124) Net opening balance 1,056,183 12,974,137 93,476 312,307 20,994 96,684 481,905 1,069,838 16,105,524 Translation effect (944) (944) Additions 9,431 109 6,413 175 1,443,097 1,459,225 Transfers 6,230 1,589,353 2,162 36,278 677 9,900 (1,644,600) Transfers held for sale (761,495) (337,571) (4,786) (205) (20,556) (1,124,613) Disposals (116,063) (33) (4,882) (963) (156) (75,008) (197,105) Depreciation charges (28,468) (2,790,819) (17,623) (130,305) (9,047) (25,710) (3,001,972) recognized in the year Ending balance $272,450 $11,110,075 $72,584 $168,514 $4,974 $80,718 $461,349 $793,327 $12,963,991 As of December 31, 2019 Cost $626,382 $53,703,112 $503,650 $4,162,306 $149,149 $640,387 $461,349 $793,327 $61,039,662 Accumulated depreciation (353,932) (42,593,037) (431,066) (3,993,792) (144,175) (559,669) (48,075,671) Net carrying amount as of December 31, 2019 $272,450 $11,110,075 $72,584 $168,514 $4,974 $80,718 $461,349 $793,327 $12,963,991 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 119 Of the total depreciation expense, $2,879,263 and $2,896,444 were charged to cost of sales, $122,709 and $157,938 to selling and administrative expenses, and $162,780 and $845,693 in discontinued operations in 2019 and 2018, respectively. Projects in process mainly include telecommunications network equipment to extend the Company’s infrastructure and the capitalization period is approximately twelve months. For the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, the Company capitalized $15,434 and $27,216, respectively, of borrowing costs related to qualifying assets of $410,323 and $495,455, respectively. These amounts were capitalized based on an interest rate of 7.63% and 8.98%, respectively. 11. Right of use asset The Company leases a different set of fixed assets including, buildings, machinery and equipment, vehicles, and computer equipment. The average term of the lease contracts is from 3 to 6 years. i. The right of use recognized in the consolidated statement of financial position as of December 31, 2019, is integrated as follows: Land & Telecommunications Furniture and Computer Vehicles Total buildings equipment and networks office equipment equipment Net book value Adoption effect $680,405 $$$$$680,405 Property, plant and equipment reclasification 217,449 721 51,092 6,862 276,124 Initial balances as of January 1, 2019 $ 680,405 $217,449 $721 $51,092 $6,862 $956,529 Final balances as of December 31, 2019 $ 440,826 $187,192 $642 $28,324 $4,263 $661,246 Accumulated depreciation $(238,408) $(30,256) $(79) $(22,768) $(2,599) $(294,110) ii. Expenses recognized in the consolidated statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2019. Rent expenses from low-value asset leases $Rent expenses from short-term leases $892,752 The Company has not signed lease contracts, which at the date of the consolidated financial statements have not started. During the year, the Company did not realize significant extensions to the term of its lease contracts. 120 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 12. Goodwill and intangible assets Definite life Indefinite life Concessions Trademarks Relationships Non-compete Software Other Goodwill Total with agreements and customers licenses As of January 1, 2018 $36,339 48,920 $149,416 $325,687 $378,836 $149,778 $419,536 $1,508,512 Additions 228,145 237,062 465,207 Transfers (572) 572 Amortization charges recognized in the year (29,131) (15,196) (19,240) (265,055) (158,791) (80,919) (568,332) Ending balance as of December 31, 2018 $7,208 $33,724 $130,176 $60,632 $447,618 $306,493 $419,536 $1,405,387 Cost $797,142 $258,904 Accumulated amortization (789,934) (225,180) $516,600 $809,793 $1,751,440 $709,484 $419,536 $5,262,899 Ending balance as of December 31, 2018 $7,208 $33,724 (386,424) (749,161) (1,303,822) (402,991) (3,857,512) $130,176 $60,632 $447,618 $306,493 $419,536 $1,405,387 As of January 1, 2019 $7,208 $33,724 $130,176 $60,632 $447,618 $306,493 $419,536 $1,405,387 Additions 23,733 70,246 1,026 95,005 Disposals (2,895) (2,895) Transfers Amortization charges recognized in the year (2,200) (22,392) (18,765) (50,271) (206,466) (145,146) (445,239) Ending balance as of December 31, 2019 $28,741 $11,332 $111,411 $10,361 $308,503 $162,373 $419,536 $1,052,258 Cost $693,405 $258,904 $516,600 $809,793 $1,811,138 $710,411 $419,536 $5,219,787 Accumulated amortization (664,664) (247,572) (405,189) (799,432) (1,502,634) (548,038) (4,167,529) Ending balance as of December 31, 2019 $28,741 $11,332 $111,411 $10,361 $308,504 $162,373 $419,536 $1,052,258 The intangible assets with indefinite life of the Company include only goodwill, which has been assigned to the Business segment. The rest of the intangible assets are of definite life. Of the total amortization expense, $2,131 and $37,417 were charged to cost of sales, $443,108 and $530,915 to selling and administrative expenses in 2019 and 2018, respectively. Company concessions Axtel has a Single Concession for commercial use, under which it is authorized to provide any telecommunications and/or broadcasting service, including, but not limited to local fixed and mobile telephony; national and international long distance, SMS (short message service), purchase or rental of network capacity for the generation, transmission or reception of data, signals, writings, images, voice, sounds and other information of any nature; rental of digital circuits, etc. Through another subsidiary called Alestra Innovación Digital, S. de R.L. de C.V. (previously Alestra Comunicación), there will be another Single Concession for commercial use, with three associated concessions to use, leverage and exploit frequency bands for specific use at frequencies of 7 GHz (1 concession) and 10 GHz (2 concessions). ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 121 The Company’s main commercial use concessions are as follows: Service Period Expiration Single concession for commercial use (1) 30 años 2046 Various radio spectrum frequencies for the provision of point-to-point and point-to-multipoint microwave links (2) (3) 20 años 2038 Fixed wireless access (4) 20 años 2038 (1) Concession valid for 30 years and renewable up to equal terms, provided that the Company is in compliance with all its obligations of the concession, as well as those contained in the legal, regulatory and administrative provisions. (2) The Plenary of the Federal Telecommunications Institute (IFT for its Spanish initials), at its XXV Ordinary Session held on October 16, 2019, approved the Resolution by Agreement P/IFT/161019/515, authorizing Axtel, S.A.B. de C.V. the extension of the term for 30 (thirty) concessions to use, leverage and exploit frequency bands of the radio spectrum for specific use in the frequency bands of 10 GHz., 15 GHz., 23 GHz. and 38 GHz. (3) The Plenary of the Federal Telecommunications Institute, at its XXV Ordinary Session held on October 16, 2019, approved the Resolution by Agreement P/IFT/161019/514, authorizing Alestra Innovación Digital, S. de R.L. de C.V. the extension of the term for 30 (thirty) concessions to use, leverage and exploit frequency bands of the radio spectrum for specific use in the frequency bands of 7 GHz. and GHz. On January 13, 2020, we expressed the IFT our acceptance of the new conditions. The term of 30 business days to pay the consideration, which will expire on February 25, 2020, is running. However, this term is subject to be extended for 15 more business days. This did not represent any adjustment to the consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2019. (4) The Plenary of the Federal Telecommunications Institute, at its XXII Ordinary Session held on September 18, 2019, approved the Resolution by Agreement P/IFT/180919/463, authorizing Axtel, S.A.B. de C.V. the extension of the term for 9 (nine) concessions to use, leverage and exploit frequency bands of the radio spectrum for specific use in the frequency band 3.5 GHz. On January 15, 2020, we expressed the IFT our acceptance of the new conditions. The term of 30 business days to pay the consideration, which will expire on February 27, 2020, is running. However, this term is subject to be extended for 15 more business days. This did not represent any adjustment to the consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2019. Impairment testing of goodwill Goodwill is comprised of the amount paid in excess of the carrying amount of net assets and liabilities of $419,536, which were allocated to the business segment. At the date of issuance of these consolidated financial statements, no impairment has been identified. Impairment sensitivity analysis for goodwill and intangibles As of December 31, 2019, the Company carries out a sensitivity analysis on the impact of a possible increase of one percentage point in the discount rate and a decrease in the long-term growth rate, and no impairment loss resulted from this sensitivity analysis. The following describes the discount rates and long-term growth rates used for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018: 2019 2018 Tasa de descuento después de impuestos 10.5% 10.5% Tasa de crecimiento de largo plazo 3.6% 3.9% 122 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 13. Other non-current assets 2019 2018 Investments of shares $294,530 $294,535 Prepaid connection leases 21,238 34,000 Guarantee deposits 41,192 83,850 Prepaid maintenance 301,242 220,150 Other 83,695 83,752 Total other non-current assets $741,897 $716,287 14. Trade and other accounts payable Trade and other accounts payable are analyzed as follows: 2019 2018 Current: Trade accounts payable $2,897,853 $3,547,032 Related parties 8,018 1,865,881 Value added tax and other federal and local taxes payable 880,277 1,556,036 Accrued expenses payable 207,603 186,116 Other 175,265 268,913 $4,169,016 $7,423,978 Non-current: Related parties $703,348 $ 4,033 15. Provisions Litigation Restructuring (1) Total As of January 1, 2018 $18,391 $99,517 $117,908 Additions 6,238 288,755 294,993 Payments (1,000) (99,517) (100,517) As of December 31, 2018 $23,629 $288,755 $312,384 Additions 14,187 86,070 100,257 Payments (9,325) (183,125) (192,451) As of December 31, 2019 $28,491 $191,700 $220,190 (1) Provisions due to restructuring include indemnities to obtain operational efficiencies. Provisions as of December 31, 2019 and 2018 are short-term. ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 123 16. Deferred income Deferred income movements during the year are shown as follows: 2019 2018 Beginning balance $536,452 $312,121 Increases 1,054,418 1,308,057 Recognized income of the year (1,437,641) (1,083,726) Ending balance $153,229 $536,452 17. Debt 2019 2018 Banco Nacional de Comercio Exterior, S.N.C $3,263,529 $3,263,529 Syndicated loan 1,320,000 1,570,000 Senior Notes (1) 9,422,600 9,841,450 Export Development Canada (EDC) 300,000 Other finance leases (2) 740,113 Accrued interest payable 111,853 123,847 Issuance costs (150,040) (216,193) Total debt 13,967,942 15,622,746 Current portion of debt (131,632) (465,828) Non-current debt $13,836,310 $15,156,918 (1) Non-bank borrowings. (2) Finance leases entered into with banking institutions at approximate rates of 6% for those denominated in U.S. dollars and the interbank interest rate (TIIE) plus 3% and 5.5% for those denominated in Mexican pesos, with maturities ranging between 1 and 3 years. As of January 1, 2019, these financial leases are part of the balance of lease liabilities. See note 18. 124 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 The terms, conditions and carrying amounts of debt are as follows: Interest rate As of December 31, Country Currency Contractual Effective Maturity Interest payment 2019 2018 date periodicity Bancomext (1) México MXP TIIE + 2.10% 10.34% 30/08/2028 Trimestral $3,263,529 $3,263,529 Syndicated loan México MXP TIIE + 2.75% 11.04% 15/12/2022 Mensual 1,320,000 1,570,000 Senior Notes Internacional USD 6.38% 6.64% 14/11/2024 Semestral 9,422,600 9,841,450 EDC Canadá MXP TIIE + 1.19% 10.51% 01/06/2021 Mensual 300,000 Total bank loans 14,006,129 14,974,979 Current portion of Bancomext debt (19,779) Debt issuance costs (150,040) (216,193) Finance leases and other 398,132 Total non-current debt 13,836,310 15,156,918 Current maturities of financial leases(2) and others 131,632 465,828 Total Debt $13,967,942 $15,622,746 (1) Debt restructuring agreement to exchange the original debt of US$171,000 to a new debt of $3,263,000. See Note 2g. (2) As of January 1, 2019, these financial leases are part of the balance of lease liabilities. See note 18. As of December 31, 2019, annual maturities of non-current debt are as follows: 2021 2022 2023 2024 Total onwards Bank loans $89,005 $1,448,564 $168,121 $2,858,060 $4,563,750 Senior Notes 9,422,600 9,422,600 $89,005 $1,448,564 $168,121 $12,280,660 $13,986,350 Issuance costs of debentures and financings are directly attributable to issuance of the Company’s debt and are amortized according to the effective interest rate over the lifetime of the debt. Fair value of non-current debt is disclosed in Note 4. Estimated fair values as of December 31, 2019 and 2018 were determined using rates that reflect a similar credit risk depending on the currency, maturity period and country where the debt was acquired, regarding financial liabilities with financial institutions, finance leases, other liabilities and related parties. In the case of Senior Notes placed in international markets, the Company uses the market price of such Notes at the date of the consolidated financial statements. Measurement at fair value of such financial liabilities valued at amortized cost is deemed within Level 1 and 2 of the fair value hierarchy. Covenants: Loan and debt issuance agreements currently in effect contain restrictions for the Company, mainly to comply with certain financial ratios, delivery of financial information, keeping accounting records, compliance with applicable laws, rules and provisions. Failure ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 125 to comply with these requirements within a specific term to the satisfaction of the creditors could be considered a cause for early termination. Financial ratios to be fulfilled include the following: a. Interest coverage ratio: which is defined as adjusted EBITDA (see Note 28) divided by financial expenses for the last four quarters of the period analyzed. This factor cannot be less than 2.75 times from the execution date of the contract until the second quarter of 2019 and cannot be less than 3.0 times from there on. b. Leverage ratio: which is defined as net consolidated debt (current and non-current debt, net of debt issuance costs, less unrestricted cash and cash equivalents) divided by adjusted EBITDA (see Note 28) for each quarter. As of December 31, 201, this factor cannot exceed 4.25 times. For each quarter of 2019, this factor cannot exceed 4.00 times; from the first quarter of 2020 and from there on this factor cannot exceed 3.50 times. * For Senior Notes, the leverage ratio cannot exceed 4.25 times. Covenants contained in credit agreements establish certain obligations, conditions and exceptions that require or limit the capacity of the Company to: Grant liens on assets; Enter into transactions with affiliates; Conduct a merger in which the Company is dissolved, unfavorable sale of assets; and Pay dividends. As of December 31, 2019 and as of the date of issuance of these consolidated financial statements, the Company and its subsidiaries complied satisfactorily with the covenants established in the credit agreements. 18. Lease liability As of December 31, 2019 Current portion $186,801 USD: 264,974 MXN: $451,775 Current lease liability $233,049 Non-current portion 633,049 USD: 866,098 MXN: Less; Current portion of lease liability 451,775 Non-current lease liability $414,323 126 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 As of December 31, 2019 and 2018, changes in the lease liability related to the finance activities in accordance with the statement of cash flow are integrated as follows: 2019 Initial balance $680,405 Financial lease reclassification 740,113 Beginning balance 1,420,518 New contracts 7,103 Write-offs Adjustment to liability balance Interest expense from lease liability 99,072 Lease payments (638,067) Exchange (loss) gain (22,528) Ending balance $866,098 The total of future minimum payments of leases that include non-accrued interest is analyzed as follows: December 31, 2019 Less than 1 year $473,476 Over 1 year and less than 5 years 415,759 Over 5 years 12,989 Total $902,224 19. Employee benefits Defined contributions plans: The Company has a defined contribution plan. According to the structure of this plan, the reduction on labor liabilities is reflected progressively. The Company has established irrevocable trust funds for payment of the defined contribution plan. Due to the changes made in the 2014 tax reform, the Company interrupted the deposits to the trust; however, it has maintained this benefit and recognized labor obligations of $282,312 and $246,145 as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Defined benefit plans: The valuation of employee benefits for retirement plans is based primarily on their years of service, current age and estimated salary at retirement date. ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 127 Following is a summary of the primary financial data of these employee benefits: 2019 2018 Obligations in the consolidated statement of financial position: Pension benefits $405,110 $341,510 Post-employment medical benefits 8,076 4,382 Defined contribution additional liability 282,312 246,145 Liability recognized in the consolidated statement of financial position $695,498 $592,037 Charge in the consolidated statement of operations for: Pension benefits $57,093 $49,936 Medical benefits to retirement 447 502 $57,540 $50,438 Remeasurements for accrued employee benefit obligations recognized in other comprehensive income for the year $70,625 $60,405 Pension and post-employment medical benefits The Company operates defined benefit pension plans based on employees’ pensionable remuneration and length of service. Most of the plans are externally funded. The Company operates post-employment medical benefit plans. The accounting method, assumptions and frequency of the valuations are similar to those used for defined benefits in pension schemes. These plans are not funded. The amounts recognized in the consolidated statement of financial position are determined as follows: 2019 2018 Present value of obligations equal to the liability in the $695,498 $592,037 consolidated statement of financial position The movement in the defined benefit obligation during the year was as follows: 2019 2018 As of January 1 $345,892 $346,489 Current service cost 25,023 25,489 Financial cost 32,517 24,949 Actuarial remediations 70,625 (60,405) Past service cost 7,343 28,018 Benefits paid (7,893) (7,241) Reductions (60,321) (11,407) As of December 31 $413,186 $345,892 128 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 The primary actuarial assumptions were as follows: 2019 2018 Discount rate 7.00% 9.50% Future wage increase 4.50% 4.50% Medical inflation rate 6.50% 6.50% The sensitivity analysis of the main assumptions for defined benefit obligations were as follows: Impact on defined benefit obligations Change in assumption Increase in assumption Decrease in assumption Discount rate 1% $(26,304) $29,631 Medical inflation rate 1% $8,369 $5,952 The above-mentioned sensitivity analyses are based on a change in an assumption, while all other assumptions remain constant. In practice, this is not likely to happen, and there may be changes in other correlated assumptions. When calculating the sensitivity of pension plans to principal actuarial assumptions, the same method has been used as if it involved calculation of liabilities pertaining to pension benefit plans recorded in the consolidated statement of financial position. The methods and type of assumptions used in preparing the sensitivity analysis suffered no changes with respect to the prior period. 20. Income taxes a) Income taxes recognized in the consolidated statement of operations: 2019 2018 Current income tax $(73,606) $(65,148) Deferred income tax 86,766 33,815 Prior years’ adjustment 2,131 (6,005) Income tax benefit (expense) $15,291 $(37,338) b) The reconciliation between the statutory and the effective income tax rates was as follows: 2019 2018 (Loss) before taxes $(353,309) $(969,323) Statutory rate 30% 30% Taxes at statutory rate 105,993 290,797 (Plus) less tax effect on: Tax effects of inflation (145,179) 207,404 Non-deductibles (43,483) (593,250) Other differences, net 97,960 57,711 Total income tax benefit (expense) charged to income $15,291 $(37,338) Effective rate (4)% 4% ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 129 c) The detail of deferred income tax asset (liability) is as follows: 2019 2018 Tax loss carryforwards $1,274,483 $1,420,015 Allowance for doubtful accounts 626,165 602,503 Property, plant and equipment 719,079 463,368 Provisions and other 262,916 363,087 Intangible assets and other (6,356) 24,102 Deferred tax asset $2,876,287 $2,873,075 Property, plant and equipment $(3,489) $(3,753) Intangible assets and other 2,730 (254) Deferred tax liability $(759) $(4,007) Deferred income tax assets are recognized over tax loss carryforwards to the extent the realization of the related tax benefit through future tax income is likely. Tax losses as of December 31, 2019 for which a tax asset was recognized amount to $4,248,278. The Company reduced tax losses by $201,500 as their realization was not considered probable. Tax losses as of December 31, 2019 expire in the following years: Year of expiration Amount 2021 $364,493 2022 71,953 2023 143,522 2024onwards 3,869,810 d) The tax charge/(credit) related to other comprehensive (loss) income is as follows: 2019 2018 Tax Tax Before After Before After charged charged taxes taxes taxes taxes (credited) (credited) Effect of currency $(2,468) $$ $(86) $$(86) translation Derivative financial (127,057) 38,117 (2,468) (11,958) 3,588 (8,370) instruments of hedging Remeasurements of (70,625) 21,187 (88,940) 60,403 (18,123) 42,280 employee benefits $(200,150) $59,304 (49,438) $48,359 $(14,535) $33,824 130 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 21. Shareholders’ equity At the General Ordinary Stockholders’ Meeting held on February 26, 2019, a fund for the repurchase of shares of $150 million pesos was approved. It was also approved to reclassify the share issue premium to accrued results of $159,551 as a step prior to the creation of a stock repurchase reserve. The stock repurchase reserve balance is $93,464 as of December 31, 2019. After the above-mentioned events, the Company’s capital stock as of December 31, 2019 was $464,368 and was comprised of 20,074,913,404 Class “I”, Series “B” common nominative shares, with no par value, entirely subscribed and paid in. As of that date, all series “B” shares issued by the Company were placed in a trust (CPO Trust). Movements on the number of common shares of the Company during the year was as follows: Number of shares Beginning balance January 1, 2018 20,249,227,481 Ending balance December 31, 2018 20,249,227,481 Repurchase of shares 174,314,077 Shares as of December 31, 2019 20,074,913,404 Net income for the year is subject to the legal provision requiring at least 5% of the profit for each period to be set aside to increase the legal reserve until it reaches an amount equivalent to one fifth of the capital stock. In accordance with the new Mexican Income Tax Law effective on January 1, 2014, a 10% tax on income generated starting 2014 on dividends paid to foreign residents and Mexican individual tax payers, when these correspond to taxable income generated starting 2014. It also establishes that for fiscal years 2001 to 2013, net taxable income will be determined as established in the Income Tax Law that was effective in the corresponding fiscal year. Dividends paid are not subject to income tax if paid from the Net Tax Profit Account (CUFIN from Spanish). Dividends exceeding CUFIN will generate income tax at the applicable rate of the period in which they are paid. This tax incurred is payable by the Company and may be credited against income tax in the same year or the following two years. Dividends paid from previously taxed profits are not subject to tax withholding or additional tax payments. As of December 31, 2019, the tax value of the CUFIN and tax value of the Capital Contribution Account (CUCA from Spanish) amounted to $224,985 and $25,256,564, respectively. In case of capital reduction, the procedures established by the Income Tax Law provide that any surplus of shareholders’ equity be given over the balances of the fiscal accounts of the capital contributed, the same tax treatment applicable to dividends. 22. Discontinued operations Disposición del Segmento Masivo Masive Segment Disposition On May 1, 2019, the Company entered into a final agreement for the divestiture of the last phase of its fiber optic business (FTTx) from the massive segment located in León, Puebla, Toluca, Guadalajara and Querétaro in the amount of $1,150 million pesos to Megacable Holdings, S.A.B. de C.V. and subsidiaries (“Megacable”). Axtel transferred to Megacable 55 thousand residential customers and microbusinesses, 1,370 km of fiber network and other assets related to the operation of the massive segment in these cities. On December 17, 2018, the Company signed a definitive agreement for the divestment of its fiber segment (FTTx) of the mass segment ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 131 located in Monterrey, San Luis Potosí, Aguascalientes, Mexico City, Ciudad Juárez and the municipality of Zapopan, for an amount of $4,713 million pesos to Grupo Televisa SAB and subsidiaries (“Televisa”). Axtel transferred to Televisa 227,802 residential and microbusiness customers, 4,432 km of fiber optic network and other assets related to the operation of the mass segment in these cities. Condensed information related to the consolidated statement of operations of the discontinued operation for the year ended December 31, 2018 and for the period ended May 1, 2019: 2019 2018 Revenues $302,367 $2,772,752 Cost of sales (263,283) (1,315,779) Gross profit 39,084 1,456,973 Administration and selling expenses (317,567) (1,240,689) Operating income (278,483) 216,284 Income before taxes (278,483) 216,284 Income taxes 83,545 (64,885) Net income (194,938) 151,399 Gain on sale of the discontinued operation 519,016 1,949,940 Income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes $324,078 $ 2,101,339 As of the date of the transaction held in 2019, the gain on sale of discontinued operations for $519,016, net of taxes, was determined by comparing the sale price of $1,150,000, less the net assets sold, transaction costs and tax effects for a total of $630,984. As of the date of the transaction held in 2018, the gain on sale of discontinued operations for $1,949,940, net of taxes, was determined by comparing the sale price of $4,712,821, less the net assets sold, transaction costs and tax effects for a total of $2,762,881. Condensed information regarding the cash flows of the discontinued operation for the year ended December 31, 2018 and for the period ended May 1, 2019: 2019 2018 Cash flows from operating activities $(29,633) $1,061,978 Cash flows from investment activities 1,150,000 3,956,544 132 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 23. Revenues a. Income for services: 2019 2018 Voice $1,873,716 $2,121,360 Managed networks 4,513,604 4,194,997 Internet data 3,962,505 3,859,259 Administrative applications 360,404 381,961 Hosting 740,579 752,241 System integration 557,797 562,400 Security 410,300 539,591 Cloud services 269,069 233,115 Other services 95,659 143,560 Total $12,783,633 $12,788,484 b. Income by geographical areas: 2019 2018 Mexico $12,743,540 $12,731,680 Outside Mexico 40,093 56,804 Total $12,783,633 $12,788,484 24. Expenses classified by their nature Total cost of sales and selling and administrative expenses, classified by nature of the expense, were as follows: 2019 2018 Service cost (1) $3,353,046 $ 3,357,117 Employee benefit expenses (Note 27) 2,456,136 2,452,171 Maintenance 797,674 855,109 Depreciation and amortization 3,578,541 3,622,713 Advertising expenses 63,864 62,680 Energy and fuel consumption 351,402 336,061 Travel expenses 53,864 53,828 Lease expenses 892,752 1,101,378 Technical assistance, professional fees and administrative services 250,946 60,688 Other 148,120 398,188 Total $11,946,345 $12,299,933 (1) Service cost consists mainly of interconnection costs and costs related to implementation of IT solutions, including: Charges related to leased lines, normally paid on a per-circuit basis per month to Telmex and to other suppliers of last-mile access. ­Interconnection costs, including charges for local and resale access, paid on a per-minute basis mainly to Telmex. ­-International payments to foreign operators on a per-minute basis to complete international calls originating in Mexico. ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 133 25. Other (expenses) income, net 2019 2018 Disposals of property, plant and equipment due to damage and obsolescence $(113,462) $(74,574) (Loss) gain on sale of property, plant and equipment (**) (5,046) 226,568 Other income, net 55,055 54,935 Total other (expenses) income, net $ (63,453) $206,929 (*) As of December 31, 2018, corresponds mainly to $224,974 gain on the sale of telecommunication towers to MATC Digital, S. de R. L. de C. V., subsidiary of American Tower Corporation. 26. Financial result, net 2019 2018 Financial income: Interest income on short-term bank deposits $54,679 $41,297 Other financial income 5,574 10,832 Total financial income $60,253 $52,129 Financial expenses: Interest expense on bank loans $(562,108) $(952,172) Interest expense on senior notes (644,331) (728,052) Interest expense on leases (99,072) Expenses related to other interest and commissions (1,626) (437) Financial expenses related to employee benefits (32,517) (24,949) Other financial expenses (129,098) (163,008) Total financial expenses $(1,468,752) $(1,868,618) Exchange fluctuation gain (loss), net: Gain on exchange fluctuation $2,855,976 $ 3,334,378 Loss on exchange fluctuation (2,565,701) (3,147,490) Exchange fluctuation gain, net $290,275 $186,888 27. Employee benefit expenses 2019 2018 Salaries, wages and benefits $2,028,983 $2,010,260 Social security fees 335,709 358,557 Employee benefits 25,023 25,489 Other fees 66,421 57,865 Total $2,456,136 $2,452,171 134 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 28. Transactions with related parties Balances with related parties as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, were as follows: December 31, 2019 Loans received from related parties Expiration Interest rate Accounts Accounts Amount Interest Currency date receivable payable MM/DD/YY Holding company $$Holding company $219,600 $ 1,881 MXP 28/02/19 TIIE + 2.25% Holding company (1) 483,748 4,144 MXP 28/02/21 TIIE + 2.25% Affiliates 23,460 8,018 Total $23,460 $8,018 $ 703,348 $ 6,025 December 31, 2018 Loans received from related parties Expiration Interest rate Accounts Accounts Amount Interest Currency date receivable payable MM/DD/YY Holding company $$ 4,924 N/A Holding company $424,561 $5,944 USD 15/07/19 3% Holding company (1) 287,300 56,780 MXP 28/02/19 TIIE + 2.25% Holding company (1) 287,300 56,780 MXP 28/02/19 TIIE + 2.25% Holding company (1) 204,574 40,434 USD 28/02/19 TIIE + 2.25% Holding company (1) 204,574 40,434 USD 28/02/19 TIIE + 2.25% Holding company 219,600 22,752 MXP 28/02/19 TIIE + 2.25% Affiliates 55,105 9,318 4,033 585 USD LIBOR 3M +2.75% Total $55,105 $14,242 $1,631,942 $223,709 (1) Indemnification (see Note 2). Transactions with related parties for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, which were carried out in terms similar to those of arm’s-length transactions with independent third parties, were as follows: Income Year ended December 31, 2019 Income Year ended December 31, 2018 Telecommunication Costs and expenses Telecommunication Costs and expenses services Interests Others services Interests Others Holding company $$$84,935 Holding company $$(136,976) $Affiliates 165,087 5,803 Affiliates 169,445 (281) (35,695) Total $165,087 $5,803 $84,935 Total $169,445 $(137,257) $(35,695) For the year ended December 31, 2019, compensation and benefits paid to the Company’s main officers totaled $106,080 ($97,139 in 2018), comprised of base salary and benefits required by law, complemented by a program of variable compensation basically based on the Company’s results and the market value of Alfa’s shares. ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 135 29. Contingencies and commitments As of December 31, 2019, there are the following commitments and contingencies with respect to Axtel and subsidiaries: I. Contingencies Interconnection Disagreements with other Mobile Operators. a. Radiomóvil Dipsa, S.A. de C.V. (Telcel). In January 2018, the Company was notified of two writs of amparo (one in which Axtel is a stakeholder and another one by Alestra Comunicación), filed by Telcel against the rates for the 2018 period determined by the IFT in compliance with the amparo judgment issued by the Second Chamber of the Supreme Court of Justice of the Nation (SCJN for its Spanish initials) within the file 1100/2015 (Zero Rate). These cases are being appealed; however, they are currently suspended on the SCJN’s instruction at the request of the IFT, since they are related to a Telcel lawsuit (A.R. 329/2019) which the SCJN is attending; therefore, they are currently awaiting a decision. In addition, in January 2019, the Company (where Axtel is the stakeholder) was notified of a writ of amparo filed by Telcel against the rates settled in 2018 (also as a Virtual Mobile Operator) for the 2019 period by the IFT, which is currently pending, like the 2018 rate trial; this matter was also suspended until the SCJN resolves a related matter. As of the date of issuance of the consolidated financial statements, the Company and its advisors believe that the rates will prevail on the basis of the decisions obtained before Ifetel, since it is considered that the most adverse scenario is forwarding the matter to that Institute for the creation of a specific regulation for 2018 and 2019 rates, within which the current rate could be ratified. Therefore, to date, the Company has recognized and paid the cost on the basis of these rates and there are no provisions associated with this contingency. b. Telefónica Group. In January 2018, the Company was notified of the writ of amparo (where Axtel is the stakeholder) filed by Telefónica against the rates for the 2018 period by the IFT in compliance with the judgment of the amparo 1100/2015 (Zero Rate). In addition, in June 2018, the Company (where Axtel is the stakeholder) was notified of a writ of amparo filed by Telefónica against the rates decided in 2017 (as Virtual Mobile Operator) for the 2018 period by the IFT. In January 2019, the Company (where Axtel is the stakeholder) was notified of a writ of amparo filed by Pegaso against the rates decided in 2018 (as Virtual Mobile Operator) for the 2019 period by the IFT. These cases are now suspended on the SCJN’s instruction at the request of the IFT, since they are related to a Telcel lawsuit (A.R. 329/2019), which SCJN is attending; therefore, they are currently awaiting a decision. As of the date of issuance of the consolidated financial statements, to the present day, the Company and its advisors believe that the rates will prevail on the basis of the decisions obtained before Ifetel, since it is considered that the most adverse scenario is forwarding the matter to that Institute for the creation of a specific regulation for the AEP for 2018 and 2019 rates, within which the current rate could be ratified. Therefore, to date, the Company has recognized and paid the cost on the basis of these rates and there are no provisions associated with this contingency. c. Grupo Iusacell (today AT&T). 136 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 In January 2018, the Company was notified (where Axtel is the stakeholder) of the writ of amparo filed by ATT against the rates for the 2018 period by the IFT, this matter was finally resolved in favor of the Company. As the rates prevailed; therefore, it has paid and recognized the cost based on such rates, and there are no provisions associated with this contingency. In January 2019, the Company (where Axtel is the stakeholder) was notified of a writ of amparo filed by ATT against the rates determined by the IFT for the 2019 period (as Vitual Mobile Operator). This case is suspended on the SCJN’s instruction at the request of the IFT, since they are related to a Telcel lawsuit (A.R. 329/2019), which the SCJN is attending; therefore, it is currently awaiting a decision. As of the date of issuance of the consolidated financial statements, the Company and its advisors believe that the rates will prevail on the basis of the decisions obtained before Ifetel, since it is considered that the most adverse scenario is forwarding the matter to that Institute for the creation of a specific regulation for the AEP for 2018 and 2019 rates, within which the current rate could be ratified. Therefore, to date, the Company has recognized and paid the cost on the basis of these rates and there are no provisions associated with this contingency. d. Interconnection disagreements with Telmex & Telnor. i. With regard to the lawsuits filed by Telmex-Telnor with the Federal Court of Administrative Justice (TFJA for its Spanish initials) for 2010 rates, these have been decided in favor of the Axtel-Avantel, Alestra, and only the direct amparo against the compliance with the judgment issued by the TFJA filed by Telmex against the rates determined for Avantel for the same year is pending a decision. ii. In May 2011, Cofetel also approved a reduction in long-distance call termination rates for that year. Telmex challenged this decision before the SCT, but that appeal was dismissed. Telmex has challenged the Federal Court of Administrative Justice, which ruled in favor of the Company (Axtel-Avantel, Alestra); however, Telmex filed a writ of amparo against that judgment, which is pending. In addition, a final favorable judgment was obtained for the lawsuit filed by Telnor (and Axtel-Avantel-Alestra as stakeholders) against 2011 rates. iii. With regard to the lawsuit filed for the period 2012, having Alestra as a stakeholder, it was decided in favor by the TFJA, and Telmex filed a direct amparo, which is under appeal. iv. In July 2019 and with the last payment of 97.5 million pesos, the trust agreement with BBVA Bancomer was terminated, having recovered a total of $566.1 million corresponding to amounts objected and deposited on the Trust (including returns), arising from 2008, 2009 and 2010 interconnection disagreements. v. Under the Federal Telecommunications and Broadcasting Act (“LFTR” for its Spanish initials), from August 13, 2014 to December 31, 2018, the Predominant Economic Agent (AEP for its Spanish initials) in the telecommunications sector, Telmex is prohibited from charging the interconnection fees for termination of calls ending in its network. Telmex challenged that condition, which was resolved by the Second Chamber of the Supreme Court of Justice of the Nation in the amparos under review 1306/2017 (Telmex) and 1307/2017 (Telnor), granting the protection to those companies. The effect of such amparos is that during the period from August 13, 2014 to December 31, 2018, the free “zero” rate prevails, resolving the SCJN that the Federal Telecommunications Institute should decide a fee for Telmex/Telnor calls ending on another concessionaire’s network beginning 2019. ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 137 vi. In January 2017, the Company was notified of a writ of amparo filed by Telmex-Telnor (having Alestra, Axtel-Avantel and Alestra Comunicación as stakeholders) against the rates decided for 2017 period by IFT, which today is finally resolved in favor of the Company. As the rates prevailed based on the decisions obtained in favor of the Company; therefore, it has recognized the cost on the basis of such rates, and there are no provisions associated with this contingency. vii. In December 2017, the Company was notified of a writ of amparo filed by (Axtel-Avantel as stakeholders) against the rates decided for the 2016 period by IFT (in compliance with an amparo judgment), this matter is under appeal. The Company and its advisors believe that the rates will prevail on the basis of the decisions obtained in favor of the Company; therefore, it has recognized the cost on the basis of these rates and there are no provisions associated with this contingency. viii. In addition, in January 2018, the Company (Axtel, Alestra Comunicación, and Axtel as VMO) was notified of several writs of amparo against the rates decided (for VMO) for the 2018 period by the IFT. One of the amparos is at a trial level (OMV), while the other one is under appeal; note that the latter is likely to be suspended on the SCJN’s instruction, since it is related to a Telcel lawsuit (A.R. 329/2019) attracted by the SCJN. The writ of amparo filed by Telnor (and Alestra Comunicación) for 2018 rates, was finally decided in favor of the Company. As of the date of issuance of the consolidated financial statements, the Company and its advisors believe that the rates will prevail on the basis of the decisions obtained before Ifetel, since it is considered that the most adverse scenario is forwarding the matter to that Institute for the creation of a specific regulation for the AEP for 2018 and 2019 rates, within which the current rate could be ratified. Therefore, to date, the Company has recognized and paid the cost on the basis of these rates and there are no provisions associated with this contingency. ix. In January 2019, the Company (Axtel) was notified of a writ of amparo against the rates decided for the 2019 period by IFT, which is suspended by SCJN’s instructions. As of the date of issuance of the consolidated financial statements, the Company and its advisors believe that the rates will prevail on the basis of the decisions obtained before Ifetel, since it is considered that the most adverse scenario is forwarding the matter to that Institute for the creation of a specific regulation for the AEP for 2018 and 2019 rates, within which the current rate could be ratified. Therefore, to date, the Company has recognized and paid the cost on the basis of these rates and there are no provisions associated with this contingency. x. In 2016, the IFT initiated a process of reviewing the preponderance measures imposed on América Móvil as a holding company of Telmex and Telcel. As a result of this review, the agreement P/IFT/EXT/270217/119 was issued, whereby the IFT plenary amends and adds the measures imposed on the AEP in 2014, which tend to generate a sector where there are competition conditions in the telecommunications sector. As of December 31, 2019, the predominant agent status of Telmex, Telnor and Telcel has not been changed. xi. As of the date of issuance of the consolidated financial statements, the Company and its advisors believe that the rates of the IFT and Cofetel judgments will prevail based on the judgments obtained in favor of the Company; therefore, it has recognized the cost on the basis of these rates, and there are no book provisions associated with this contingency. Similarly, the process of reviewing preponderance measures continues. Lawsuits between Axtel and Solution Ware Integración, S. A. de C. V. (“Solution Ware”) i. Axtel and Solution Ware participated in seven projects with the Government of Nuevo León, Secretariat of Labor and Social Welfare, Secretariat of Social Development, National Population Registry, National Forestry Commission, Seguros Monterrey and the Government of Tamaulipas. 138 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 To date, Solution Ware has filed various ordinary commercial lawsuits in which it claims Axtel to pay for some purchase orders for managed services, as well as interest, damages and lost profits in addition to legal expenses and costs; as of the date of these consolidated financial statements, Solution Ware has required payment of $91,776 and $US12,701 through a public broker. Lawsuits concerning the Government of Nuevo León, the National Population Registry and the Government of Tamaulipas are currently at a trial level, while the lawsuits concerning the Secretariat for Social Development are under appeal. With regard to the lawsuits concerning the Merger Opposition agreements, the Secretariat of Labour and Social Welfare and CONAFOR definitively concluded in favor of the Company. At the date of issuance of the consolidated financial statements, the Company and its advisors believe that there is no real likelihood that these claims will succeed and, therefore, there are no book provisions associated with this contingency. Lawsuit between Axtel and Comercializadora Vedoh, S. A. de C. V. i. Axtel contracted from Comercializadora Vedoh sponsorship given by the Team to Axtel in automotive equipment in the NASCAR series. In 2018, Comercializadora Vedoh filed a commercial ordinary lawsuit whereby it demanded a payment of $1,065 from Axtel for team sponsorships in 2014 and 2015. In connection with this case, a court settlement agreement was made in June 2019, whereby the Company made a payment of US$800. Compensatory Procedures in the Federal Superior Auditors (“ASF” for its Spanish initials) i. In June 2018, S&C Constructores de Sistemas was notified of a compensatory procedure processed at the ASF, claiming the total amount of $63,320, the foregoing resulted from an audit conducted to the Secretariat for Social Development (SEDESOL) and the Autonomous University of the State of Mexico. By May 2019, the ASF determined a compensation liability of $34,118, which was challenged and is pending. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company paid $36,768, according to the optical character recognition granted by the Tax Administration Service. In addition to the payment made, in December 2019, the SAT notified S&C of an update and surcharges of $38,024, a determination that will be challenged. The administrative enforcement procedure is suspended by the Administrative Court, and the guarantee of the tax liability is pending. In this regard, the Company and its advisors consider an average possibility of obtaining a favorable result from the administrative-law action or, where appropriate, from the appeal. ii. In August 2018, Axtel was notified of a compensating procedure processed at the ASF, claiming the total amount of $5,219, the foregoing resulted from an audit conducted to the Ministry of Health for the provision of telephone service; said case was challenged and won in accordance with the interests of the Company at the trial level, the judgment was challenged by the administrative authority; therefore, the trial is in an appealing process. In this regard, the Company and its advisors consider an average possibility of a favorable judgment for the Company. II. Commitments ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 139 The Company has contractual commitments related to office space and telecommunication tower agreements. The aggregate minimum future payments corresponding to these contractual commitments are as follows: Less than 1 year $770,232 Between 1 and 5 years 4,320,858 More than 5 years Total $5,091,090 30. Segment information The information historically used to make strategic decisions is reported to the CEO based on two operating segments. The focus of the two operating segments is described below. The Business operating segment offers communication services and value-added services, such as information, data and Internet technologies, managed through the Company’s network and infrastructure for both multinational companies, as well as for international and national businesses. The Government operating segment offers communication services and value-added services, such as information, data and Internet technologies, administered through the Company’s network and infrastructure, for the federal, state and municipal governments. In 2019, the Company entered into a final agreement resulting in the total divestment of the massive segment, which is presented as a discontinued operation described in Note 22. In addition to the two operating segments focused on the client, the remaining operations of the Company are included in the “Unallocated expenses” category to be included in the consolidated results of the Company. This category includes expenses associated with centralized functions, including procurement, supply chain and the Company’s senior management. These operating segments are managed separately since the products and services offered and the markets in which they are focused are different. The resources are allocated to the operational segments considering the strategies defined by the Company’s Management. Transactions between the operating segments are carried out at market values. The performance of the operating segments is measured based on the Business Unit Contribution (BUC), defined as the operating profit of each segment, including sales, costs per segment and direct segment expenses, as included. in internal financial reports reviewed by the Director General. The Company defines Adjusted EBITDA as the result of adding to the operating profit (loss), depreciation and amortization, the impairment of non-current assets and the adjusted EBITDA of the massive segment that is presented as a discontinued operation in accordance with IFRS; it is considered a useful measure of the operational performance of the business since it provides a significant analysis of commercial performance by excluding specific items reported separately due to their nature or incidence. Income or interest expenses are not allocated to reportable segments, since this activity is handled globally by Alfa’s central treasury. When projects are not directly attributed to a particular operating segment, capital expenditure is allocated to each segment based on the rate of future economic benefits estimated as a result of capital expenditure. 140 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 The following is the consolidated financial information of the information segments: I. Financial information by segments: 2019 Business Government Total Sales by segment $10,624,856 $2,158,777 $12,783,633 Service cost (2,200,298) (1,152,748) (3,353,046) Expenses (831,651) (212,003) (1,043,654) Business unit contribution (BUC) 7,592,907 794,026 8,386,933 71% 37% 66% Unallocated expenses (3,921,096) EBITDA 4,465,837 EBITDA of discontinued operations 625,749 Adjusted EBITDA 5,091,586 Impairment of non-current assets (113,462) Depreciation and amortization (3,578,541) Depreciation and amortization of discontinued operations (162,780) Less the effects of discontinued operations (1) (462,968) Operating income 773,835 Financial result, net (1,127,143) Financial result, net of discontinued operations Loss before tax $(353,308) 2018 Business Government Total Sales by segment $10,313,312 $2,475,172 $12,788,484 Service cost (1,913,099) (1,444,018) (3,357,117) Expenses (863,090) (164,926) (1,028,016) Business unit contribution (BUC) 7,537,123 866,228 8,403,351 73% 35% 66% Unallocated expenses (4,010,584) Adjusted EBITDA without merger expenses 4,392,767 EBITDA of discontinued operations 3,847,605 Adjusted EBITDA 8,240,372 Impairment of non-current assets (74,574) Depreciation and amortization (3,622,713) Depreciation and amortization of discontinued operations (845,693) Less the effects of discontinued operations (1) (3,001,912) Operating income 695,480 Financial result, net (1,664,803) Financial results of discontinued operations, net Loss before tax $(969,323) (1) The items of the discontinued operation are comprised of the operating income of the massive segment plus the gain on sale of the discontinued operation of $519,016 and $1,949,940 for 2019 and 2018, respectively, presented in Note 22, gross of the corresponding taxes. Additionally, the effects reflected in the results by segment of 2018, consider the operating profit generated by the massive segment in that year. ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 141 31. Subsequent events In preparing the consolidated financial statements, the Company has evaluated the events and transactions for recognition or disclosure subsequent to December 31, 2019 and through January 31, 2020, (issuance date of the consolidated financial statements), and identified the following: a) Given what is disclosed in Note 2b, on January 8, 2020, the Company announced the final closure of the strategic agreement with Equinix to strengthen its IT and cloud solutions offering. The valuation of this transaction is US$175 million, while Axtel holds a minority stake in the new entity. Excluding operating expenses and the balance in custody, the resources of approximately US$157 million will be used to strengthen the Company’s financial structure. The Company did not have an impact on cash flows due to tax consequences, as it applied tax loss carryforwards of $2,644,367. No event or transaction represented adjustments to the amounts reported as of December 31, 2019. 32. Authorization to issue the financial statements On January 31, 2020, the issuance of the accompanying consolidated financial statements was authorized by Sergio Rolando Zubirán Shetler, Chief Executive Officer, Adrián de los Santos Escobedo, Chief Financial Officer, and José Salvador Martín Padilla, Corporate Controller. These consolidated financial statements are subject to the approval of the Company’s ordinary shareholders’ meeting. 142 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 Annexes MEMORY PARAMETERS To ensure transparency in our operational, corporate governance, labor, social, environmental and financial performance for the period January 1 to December 31, 2019, we hereby present our stakeholders with the Axtel Integrated Annual Report for 2019. The content of this document is limited to Axtel’s operations in Mexico, and therefore does not include information on other entities, companies, institutions, shareholders, customers or business partners. The restatement of other information with respect to previous years is indicated in each case. In 2019, we completed the sale of the remaining portion of our mass fiber business to Megacable and signed an agreement with Equinix, Inc. to strengthen our offering of data center, cloud and interconnection solutions. This report has been prepared in accordance with GRI Standards: Core Option. It was reviewed by e3 Consultora Ambiental, an entity external to Axtel. ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 143 GRI CONTENT INDEX General Content GRI Standard Description Page GRI 101: Foundation GRI 102: General Disclosures 1. Organization Profile 2016 102-1 Name of the Organization Axtel, S.A.B. de C.V. 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 11, 13 102-3 Location of headquarters 8 102-4 Location of operations 15 102-5 Ownership and legal form Axtel, S.A.B. de C.V. 102-6 Markets attended 8, 11, 13, 15 102-7 Scale of the organization 15, 38, 53 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 53 102-9 Supply chain 21 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain 8 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 33 102-12 External initiatives 20 102-13 Membership of associations 20 2. Strategy 2016 102-14 Statement from senior decision-makers 4 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 33 3. Ethics and Integrity 2016 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 35, 47 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 35 144 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 4. Governance 2016 102-18 Governance structure 25 102-19 Delegating authority 25 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, and social topics 45 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, 102-21 50 and social topics 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees 25 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body 25 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body 25 102-25 Conflicts of interest 25 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values, 102-26 25 and strategy 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental and social impacts 45, 50 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes Review of economic, environmental and social topics 33 102-31 Review of economic, environmental and social topics 33, 45, 50 102-32 Executive Director of Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting Human Capital. 102-33 Communicating critical concerns 35 102-34 Nature and total number of critical concerns 35 102-35 Remuneration policies 25 102-36 Process for determining remuneration 25 We do not involve our stakeholders in determining remuneration for our 102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration directors. This decision is made by the Board of Directors and its committees. ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 145 This information is 102-38 Annual total compensation ratio kept confidential to protect the security of our employees. This information is kept confidential to 102-39 Percentage increase in annual total compensation ratio protect the security of our employees. 5. Stakeholder Engagement 2016 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 51 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 53 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 51 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 51 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 21 6. Reporting Practice 2016 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 34 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 50 102-47 List of material topics 50 102-48 Restatements of information 142 102-49 Changes in reporting 142 102-50 Reporting period 142 102-51 Date of most recent report 142 102-52 Reporting cycle 142 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 153 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 142 102-55 GRI content index 143 102-56 External assurance 142 146 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 Material Topics Global Compact Page or response GRI Standard Description Principle GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 Information Security 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 13, 17 103-2 The management approach and its components 13, 17 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 13, 17 Network Reliability 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 11 103-2 The management approach and its components 11 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 11 Product and Service Innovation 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 17 103-2 The management approach and its components 17 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 17 GRI 200: Economic Standards GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 38 103-2 The management approach and its components 38 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 38 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 38 Axtel did not receive financial assistance 201-4 Financial assistance received from government from the government in any form during 2019. ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 147 GRI 202: Market Presence 2016 202-1 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender com53 pared to local minimum wage GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts 2016 We continue to work towards incorporating digital transformation solutions in our portfolio that include 203-2 Significant Indirect economic impacts technological trends such as Analytics, Big Data, the Cloud and Artificial Intelligence to contribute to a reduction in Mexico´s technology gap. GRI 204: Procurement Practices 2016 204-1 Proportion of Spending on local suppliers 21 GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 35 103-2 The management approach and its components 35 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 35 In 2019 we did not review any of our 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption. operations using this perspective. 205-2 Communication and training on anti-corruption 35 policies and procedures 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 35 GRI 206: Anti-competitive Behavior 2016 Axtel did not register any legal action related Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anto anti-competitive 206-1 ti-trust, and monopoly practices behavior and/or monopoly practices or against free competition in 2019. 148 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 GRI 300: Environmental Standards 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 63 103-2 The management approach and its components 63 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 63 GRI 301 Materials 2016 301-2 Recycled input materials used 7y8 72 301-3 Reclaimed products and their packaging materials 7y8 72 GRI 302. Energy 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 64 103-2 The management approach and its components 64 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 64 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 8 64 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization 64 302-3 Energy intensity 64 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 8 64 GRI 303 Water and Effluents 2016 303-1 Water extraction by source 7y8 71 303-2 Water sources significantly affected by water 71 extraction 303-3 Recycled and reused water 8y9 71 GRI 305 Emissions 2016 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 8 68 305-2 Indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions from energy production 8 68 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 8 68 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 8y9 68 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 7y8 68 GRI 306 Effluents and Waste 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 72 103-2 The management approach and its components 72 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 72 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 8 72 306-4 Transport of hazardous waste 72 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 149 GRI 307 Environmental Compliance 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Axtel did not register 103-2 The management approach and its components any cases of noncompliance with 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach environmental laws and/ or regulations in 2019. 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations 8 GRI 400: Social Standards GRI 401 Employment 2018 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 53 103-2 The management approach and its components 53 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 53 401-1 New hires and staff turnover 53 Benefits for full-time employees not provided to 401-2 6 53 temporary or part-time employees 401-3 Parental leave 53 GRI 403 Occupational Health and Safety 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 60 103-2 The management approach and its components 60 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 60 In 2019 all unionized employees were 403-1 Employee representation on formal employeeremoved due to the sell3 company health and safety committees off of the Mass Market Business. Types of accidents and frequency rates for 403-2 accidents, occupational illness, lost work days, 1 60 absenteeism and number of deaths due to work accidents or occupational illness 403-3 Employees with high incidence, or high risk, of 60 work-related illness 403-4 Health and safety issues dealt with in formal 60 agreements with unions. 150 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 GRI 404 Training and Education 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 58 103-2 The management approach and its components 58 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 58 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 1 58 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and 53, 58 transition assistance programs 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular 58 performance and career development reviews GRI 406 Non-discrimination 2016 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions 1, 2, 4, y 5 35 taken GRI 408 Child Labor 2016 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for 1, 2, 4 y 5 21 incidents of child labor GRI 409 Forced or Compulsory Labor 2016 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for 1, 2, 4 y 5 21 incidents of forced or compulsory labor GRI 411 Rights of Indigenous Peoples 2016 411-1 Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous 37 peoples GRI 412 Human Rights Assessment 2016 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or 1, 2 y 4 37 procedures GRI 413 Local Communities 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 61 103-2 The management approach and its components 61 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 61 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, 61 impact assessments, and development programs ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 151 GRI 415 Public Policy 2016 Axtel made no political contributions 415-1 Political contributions to political parties and/or political representatives in any form in 2019. GRI 417 Marketing and Labeling 2016 Axtel did not register any incidents of 417-3 Incidents of noncompliance concerning marketing non-compliance communications concerning marketing communications in 2019. GRI 418 Customer Privacy 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 103-2 The management approach and its components Axtel did not receive any substantiated 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data in Substantial complaints concerning breaches of cus2019. 418-1 tomer privacy and losses of customer data 1 152 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 VERIFICATION LETTER Informe de verificación independiente Stakeholders of the Axtel 2019 Annual Integrated Report, we inform that: RYM Servicios Ambientales Internacionales S.C, e3 Consultora Ambiental, has concluded an independent review of the contents that report the sustainability performance results of Axtel, S.A.B. de C.V., Axtel, corresponding to the period of 2019. Summary of activities e3 Consultora Ambiental reviewed disclosures of corporate government, ethics, economic impact, environmental matters, labor practices and human rights, that were included on the report. To validate the quality of a sample of contents from the Axtel 2019 Annual Integrated Report, the auditor team requested access to the consolidated information records shared among the Company's departments. The Company’s current Materiality Analysis was used to confirm the coverage of the indicators required by the Guides for the preparation of the sustainability reports, GRI Standards with the Core option. Methodologies This independent verification report was prepared based on the following standards: ISAE 3000 and The External Assurance of Sustainability Reporting (GRI). The application of the principles for the definition of the contents of the record, the review of the basic general and specific contents and the coverage of the disclosures related to the material issues and the presentation of the GRI Standards Index of Contents was confirmed by taking the GRI 101: Foundations 2016. Conclusions  There was no evidence to indicate that the definition of the content of the report was not prepared based on the principles of stakeholder participation, the context of sustainability, materiality and exhaustiveness.  Based on a review of the evidence that supports the figures presented in a sample of the indicators covered by the record, no situations arose that led us to conclude that there are any significant errors or omissions in the information disclosed in the Axtel 2019 Annual Integrated Report.  There is no evidence that led us to object to the Axtel 2019 Annual Integrated Report have been prepared with the Core option of the GRI Standards. Recommendations  The findings and detailed recommendations are provided separately in an internal report addressed to Sustainability Officer of Axtel. David Parra Director e3 Consultora Ambiental NOTES. This work covers a limited verification exercise conducted under the charge of Axtel that was completed in february 2020. Under no circumstances shall this work be understood as an audit of the figures contained in the report or an exhaustive review of the internal control mechanisms for the generation, analysis, calculation and filing of Axtel's non-financial information. e3 Consultora Ambiental is a company independent from Axtel. The verifying team did not take part in the preparation of the Axtel 2019 Annual Integrated Report. ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2020 153 CONTACT INFORMATION Nancy Llovera Tamez Investor Relations nllovera@axtel.com.mx Tel. +52 81 8114 1128 Julio Salinas Lombard Media Relations jusalinas@axtel.com.mx Tel. +52 81 8114 1144 María Luisa Chavarría Torres Sustainability mchavarriat@axtel.com.mx Tel. +52 81 8114 0000 Ext. 74277 Corporate Offices Blvd. Díaz Ordaz Km 3.33, L1 Col. Unidad San Pedro San Pedro Garza García, N.L. México, C.P. 66215 axtelcorp.mx/sustentabilidad
