SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Whatever comes next, we make sure life comes first Radiometer 2 Contents President’s statement ......................................................................................................................4 Radiometer at a glance........................................................................................................................8 A global perspective on health care...................................................................................................10 Our sustainability commitment..........................................................................................................11 People....................................................................................................................................................14 Inspired to grow ...........................................................................................................................16 Better together..............................................................................................................................18 United by purpose.........................................................................................................................25 Enhancing our work environment...............................................................................................27 Environment and climate..................................................................................................................28 Connected beyond the box...........................................................................................................30 Continuously improving environmental performance..............................................................31 The society around us.........................................................................................................................32 Running our business with integrity............................................................................................34 Working responsibly with suppliers.............................................................................................37 Giving back.......................................................................................................................................39 Appendix..................................................................................................................................................40 Sustainability Report 2019 3 President’s statement In our customers’ line of work, life is not a given – it It’s all about collaboration. We work with customers is the ultimate goal. They face constant change and and partners to ensure a constant focus on challenging situations and never know what to expect improving patient care together. We do this by when they start work each day caring for critically ill taking the expertise within diagnostic and monitoring patients. solutions that we have built up for decades and making it available to health care professionals in Since the very beginning in 1954, our mindset acute care diagnostics across the world. To us this is and purpose have revolved around empowering unity in support of the overarching purpose in health caregivers to make diagnostic decisions to improve care – to nurture life. patient care. Although the technology we use and the eyes through which we see the world have changed, We value the trust our customers and partners place we still believe that a seamless relationship between in us and work every day to ensure that we continue people and technology is crucial in the most critical to develop and deepen that relationship. We strive to care situations. go the extra mile for our customers and are happy to see this reflected in a recent global satisfaction We have been supporting and advocating for survey, where customers gave our field service Sustainable Development Goal No. 3 “Good Health engineers the highest score when assessing their and Well-being” since before it was a common goal experience working with Radiometer: and we are proud and humbled by the impact we “ make. In health care we do not always know what comes next, but we do know that our constant ambition to support caregivers will make Radiometer continue The support from the field to deliver great value to our customers and health care communities around the world. For Radiometer, service engineers is key answering what’s next in health care starts with what to keeping our service comes first — life. running. Comment from customer in the survey Life first. Always. Rooted deeply in the values across our parent company, Danaher, our relationship with our customers is vital to our business. When they talk, we listen, because in order to provide them with the best support possible we need to understand their world better than anyone else. Radiometer 4 Our commitment “ As a global diagnostics company we have the opportunity as well as the obligation to pursue our business and strategic objectives in a way that fulfills our responsibilities to the society in which we operate. We believe that the ones who build the strongest As a UN Global Compact signatory member Radiometer supports the Ten Principles, which cover partnerships will make the areas of human rights, labor, environment and the greatest impact. anti-corruption. We have built our sustainability Henrik Schimmell focus on three pillars that put health at the heart of President our work: People, Environment and climate and The society around us. As our industry is changing at an ever faster pace with new technological advancements, we will continue to put caregivers and their needs in the center of everything we do. We will continuously seek to better understand their challenges in an ever changing world, advocate for a collaborative approach and make sure that we ourselves make necessary changes. Henrik Schimmell President Sustainability Report 2019 5 OUR MISSION OUR VISION We help caregivers make Improving global health care diagnostic decisions that with reliable, fast and easy save lives patient diagnoses OUR PROMISE Whatever comes next, we make sure life comes first Radiometer 6 #LifeFirst Sustainability Report 2019 7 Radiometer at a glance Radiometer develops, manufactures and markets solutions for blood sampling, blood gas analysis, transcutaneous monitoring, immunoassay testing and the related IT management systems and digital services. Owned by the Danaher Corporation As a global market leader within blood gas, we have Specialis a strong foundation to continue to improve the value by blood we deliver to our customers. Our work at Radiometer is supported by Danaher. We have refined deep knowledg and experience acute care diagno since 1954 In 1954 we launched the world’s first commercially available blood gas analyzer Today over 130 countries benefit from our products and solutions Radiometer 8 ts Connected beyond the box our We bring reliable e connected in solutions to critical stics care settings Whatever comes next, we make sure life comes first Better together We collaborate with customers and partners to focus on improving patient care Sustainability Report 2019 9 A global perspective on health care As the global market leader within blood gas with solutions in hospitals, clinics and labs in over 130 countries, supporting sustainability goal number 3 ensuring healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages is at the core of our business. “ When the polio epidemic swept across Europe in the early 1950s, many children were at risk of respiratory failure. Professor Poul Astrup and anesthesiologist Bjørn Ibsen discovered the right diagnosis by In Africa the population measuring the pH value in blood using Radiometer’s pH meters. will double within the This groundbreaking discovery soon formed the basis coming ten years which for Radiometer’s entry into medical technology with will further increase Radiometer developing the world’s first commercially available blood gas analyzer in 1954. the pressure on the It started as an idea for a better solution, but like infrastructure. To support all powerful ideas, it evolved into a passion. Since the development then, we have continuously advanced our acute care diagnostic solutions with dedication, clinical evidence, of critical care in attention to details and heartfelt passion. Africa, Radiometer is collaborating with its channel partners, government ministries of health, public and private sector health providers, NGO’s and funders to improve access to acute health care and provision in Africa. Nomagugu Masuku-Mukadah Partnerships for Health Lead (Africa) Radiometer 10 Our sustainability commitment Our commitment to sustainability, compliance and continuous improvement is grounded in our Code of Conduct and Sustainability Policy both of which are essential to how we conduct business in a responsible and fair manner. Code of Conduct Our Code of Conduct is the cornerstone of our In practice, our policy means that we work to compliance culture and applies to all employees identify, prevent and mitigate adverse impacts at all Danaher operating companies worldwide. It on the triple bottom line. We will work actively to provides a framework for our employees to develop balance economic progress, social responsibility and nurture a compliance culture that guides and and environmental protection. In this report, we assists them in making fair and honest decisions, but communicate transparently about how we manage our Code of Conduct reaches beyond ourselves. We this work on an annual basis about our progress, also expect our agents, distributors, representatives, challenges and goals. independent contractors, consultants, suppliers, business partners and others who support our People business to comply with our Code of Conduct and At Radiometer, people are at the heart of our work. play and apply by the same rules as we do. Supporting the engagement and well-being of our employees is of the highest priority as there Our Sustainability Policy is no doubt that having capable and motivated Our approach to corporate social responsibility is employees is key to our success. Likewise, the safety based on conducting business with respect for the and treatment of patients and our relationship with triple bottom line; people, planet and economy while our customers are fundamental to how we run our ensuring responsible and ethical business processes business. throughout our organization and activities. Our policy is built upon internationally recognized principles on human rights, environment and antiEmployee Satisfaction corruption. These principles derive from the UN Global Compact; the United Nations’ corporate social responsibility initiative that we joined in 2010. Diversity and Inclusion Sustainability Report 2019 11 Environment and climate The society around us As a global production company, we undeniably have As a company operating in over 130 countries, we an impact on the environment. have a responsibility to ensure that our business does not have a negative impact on the societies that We acknowledge the effects that GHG emissions surround us, but that our presence can contribute related to human activities have on climate change to sustainable development in the countries and and follow all applicable rules and regulations related regions in question. to this. We consider and implement energy efficiency measures in construction and renovation projects. Foundation for Sustainable Business Energy Consumption Product End-of-Life Customers’ Sustainability Priorities Radiometer 12 Improving global health care with reliable, fast and easy patient diagnoses Towards the UN Sustainable Development Goals Environment The society People and Climate around us Employee Satisfaction Energy Consumption Foundation for Sustainable Business Diversity and Inclusion Product End-of-Life Customers’ Sustainability Priorities Sustainability Report 2019 13 People Radiometer 14 “As a former Intensive Care Unit nurse I have witnessed firsthand the impact that our solutions can have on a patient’s life. It brings me great purpose to be part of a company that makes a real difference for health care providers globally. Nicolai Pedersen, Account Manager, Denmark Reporting requirements Danish Financial Statements Act §99a, Social and employee conditions Danish Financial Statements Act §99b, Underrepresented gender UN Global Compact COP, Labor conditions Employee Satisfaction Diversity and Inclusion Sustainability Report 2019 15 Inspired to grow At Radiometer we believe that innovation and improvement come from personal and professional development. The success of our business is based upon On the job learning continuously providing our employees with a space where they can grow, learn and push for the greater​ A lot of development at Radiometer takes place solutions e.g. through clear goals and on-the-job on-the-job and we believe in unleashing potential learning. Only when our people are constantly through informal and experiential learning. As learning, growing and challenging themselves are we with performance objectives, people leaders and as a company able to develop and deliver some of the employees collaborate to formulate impactful world’s most advanced health care solutions – now development plans based on the adult learning and in the future. ​ model: 70-20-10. 70% of a person’s learning at work comes from learning on the job by engaging and Clear goals as a basis for success exposing themselves to new projects, tasks and responsibilities, 20% comes from coaching and ​Through our Performance for Growth Cycle, our feedback and 10% of learning is realized through employees are supported in setting clear goals formal training. that are aligned to the strategic priorities of the organization and goals that they can assess their We believe in exposing our employees to situations performance against. We focus on both the WHAT, where they will be able to practice and learn until and the HOW and that’s because how we do it is as they master new skills that will help them realize their important as what we do. aspirations and potential. Powered by Danaher Like no other, being part of the Danaher family, provides us the opportunity to offer worldwide challenges to our employees – both within our industry and outside. ​With 25 world-class operating companies1 doing business in countries throughout the world, Danaher offers dynamic and challenging careers. This is why people leaders and employees collaborate With the Danaher Business System, which is a every year to align not only on performance set of tools that enable continuous improvement expectations, but also on the way these objectives are around lean, growth and leadership, our employees met. Ultimately, the process supports our employees are equipped to achieve success – whether it’s in in receiving ongoing feedback, which helps them Danaher or outside. We use the Danaher Business grow and develop and ensures their success.​At System to guide what we do, measure how well we Radiometer, realizing the potential of our employees execute, and drive a continuous cycle of change through development is as important as ensuring and improvement. For our own professional high performance throughout. development, but ultimately for the benefit of critically ill patients around the world. Radiometer People 16 “ My career has never followed a specific path. I started out 16 years ago as an office admin and during my career at Radiometer, I have always been met with a focus on my potential and possibilities rather than my gender, age or seniority. We have an open environment where we learn from each other and this has really inspired me to grow. Adele Li Sales Director, North China & Customer Care Director, China Sustainability Report 2019 17 Better together We believe that the best results are achieved together. “ ‘Best team wins’ is a core value of ours. And one which is well incorporated across our business. In it lies our special focus on ensuring equal access to positions, development opportunities Working with Diversity and Inclusion it and management roles at all levels. We strive to is key to focus on diversity of thought realize this through our strategic actions within and create a culture of inclusion where Talent Acquisition, Talent Management and Talent Acceleration.2 all associates feel confident to share their perspectives, ideas, knowledge We work strategically with Diversity and Inclusion with a clear vision, created from the voice of our own and experience. We need to be alert employees, where they helped us define it alongside when we see signs of “groupthink” with the initiatives that are meaningful for them. where roles and norms become With this we strive to welcome everyone into our established and there is a pressure company just as they are and are dedicated to invest in the growth and development of the individual, to conform. Instead we must work because we know that the best team consists of to unfold the total potential of our people, who are supported in being the best possible employees and support them in having version of themselves. life long careers where they can bloom and develop to fulfill their aspirations and our business needs. Rikke Tengberg Vice President, HR and Communications “ As specialists with a wide range of backgrounds, knowledge and skills united by a passion for serving our customers, we always strive to bring the best team to find solutions. What brings me purpose is that none of us are afraid to speak up and we all share the conviction of going the extra mile to build trusted relationships with caregivers globally. Christian Wagner Senior General Manger Europe & Global Commercial Excellence, Sales Radiometer People 18 Geographic distribution An embracing culture We have a strong process around the hiring of new In general, we want and value associates who have associates to make sure we fight our unconscious their own unique characteristics and viewpoints – biases and our hiring managers and recruiters are and encourage them to keep those. We believe that always seeking the best talent by making sure that instead of spending time and energy to try to fit in, we are reaching and involving a diverse slate of we want every single employee to come and show talents in the final round of candidates. their true selves at work and use this energy to create an inclusive and embracing environment. Diverse slates By a diverse slate, we mean a list of prospects and or candidates for consideration that offers a mix of under-represented talent. 1. Shows the possibility and/or range of talent 2. Has viable qualifications for the role 3. May include prospects, passive profiles and active candidates Sustainability Report 2019 19 A three legged focus on Diversity & Inclusion Your time is now! Join us and help us Be your true self! challenge the status quo We like it that way We We welcome embrace you you YOU Together we realize your life’s potential Let’s work together to realize your ultimate career goals Growing Inclusive Teams Focus on what we believe will make a difference To ensure that we can continue to understand and serve an increasingly diverse customer base, and We focus on diversity in the areas where we need it build inclusive teams where people feel they belong the most. Globally, our focus is balancing for better and can grow we launched a new training in 2019 around our gender representation in our workforce. called Growing Inclusive Teams. In this training, Additionally, in the U.S, the focus is around people leaders and employees are introduced to the strengthening our People of Color representation.3 concepts, definitions, tools and approaches needed These focus areas will continue in 2020. to effectively leverage the diversity within their team. The scope of this training will be offered to more employees in 2020-2021. Radiometer People 20 Women in leadership We want our leadership teams to have a gender male. However, since last year we have experienced balance that is representative for the world’s a gap in the gender distribution of our Board of population. To ensure gender balance in our Directors due to a change in our top management leadership teams we have an extraordinary focus team. Our former Vice President of Global on developing and retaining our female emerging Operations, Marianne Ovesen, was appointed to a talents and female leaders, as we still have a gap new Danaher position at Beckman Coulter, leaving in our global gender distribution in general and her seat in the top management and the Board of among our Senior Leaders in particular. By the end Directors to her successor, Niels Fogelstrøm. This has of 2019, Radiometer has decided to establish a jump resulted in a gender distribution of 80% male and 20% off point by monitoring the following metrics: Global female amongst the five members of our Board of Gender Representation and Global Senior Leader Directors, (excluding the employee-elected members) Gender Representation. Top Management Gender compared to last year. Our goal is unchanged. By Representation will continue to be one of our metrics. 2023 at the latest, we will work to have 40% of the underrepresented gender in the Board of Directors, Our top management consists of our President mirroring the group management of Radiometer. and Vice Presidents who lead the company on a Gender distribution. daily basis. Within this group we have a balanced Please see gender distribution below.4 distribution of gender with 45% female and 55% Gender distribution Gender distribution Gender distribution overall senior leadership top leadership Sustainability Report 2019 21 Gender distribution in top leadership44 percentage % We have a strong focus on leadership development, the program in 2020. The Fast-Track Program is and leaders have the possibility to engage in an immersive one-week leadership development exciting development programs both internally and experience hosted by an external partner. Through externally. In 2019, we had our first 21 female leaders this program our emerging female managers learn completing The Fast-Track Program5 for Emerging tools and techniques to lead themselves and their Female Managers and expect 19 more to complete teams more effectively. “Despite the fact that as women we are all diverse, we are also very similar to each other in basic values and the way we think about ourselves. Being part of the FastTrack Program it was amazing to find out, that I am not alone with my thoughts, and that amazing women from all over the world have the same or very similar goals, ambitions and challenges. Monika Wiącek, Manager, Controlling Radiometer People 22 People of color The invisible differences In USA, our employees have the opportunity to However, we don’t stop at ensuring that we visibly identify themselves in regards to their racial, national are different from each other. We also want to make or sociocultural origin6 through a self-assessment. sure that we have diversity in terms of invisible Based on this 42.2% of our employees identify differences and similarities. We therefore seek to themselves as a person of color, 48.5% identify hire people from diverse backgrounds, people with themselves as black and 9.3% preferred not to individual experiences, people at different life stages, answer or have not recorded their answer. people with their own aspirations, people who represent diversity of thought and people who then Our work with ensuring that we embrace our together can grow and achieve extraordinary results. colleagues no matter the color of their skin or sociocultural or national origin manifests in the We help our people leaders and employees through launch of resource groups in the US for specific this learning journey by inviting them to participate in affinity audiences like Asian, Latin and black. This the Growing Inclusive Teams training and by helping continues to be a focus in terms of our talent them understand the perception of their teams and acquisition and talent management activities in 2020. their levels of inclusivity by diving deeper, when needed, into the engagement results that speak to these behaviors. Our vision for Diversity and Inclusion We want to be better every day at welcoming you as you are. We believe in embracing our differences, igniting alternative mindsets and skillsets to enable trust-building, learning and togetherness. Sustainability Report 2019 23 “Something fundamentally changes when you’re able to look at any given process from the customer perspective. Is it value adding? Is it intuitive? Is it helpful? Does it make the everyday of our customers easier? In working with Customer Experience at Radiometer, the ability to go to Gemba and use tried-andtested tools such as Voice of the Customer, Value Stream & Process Maps and Daily Management ensures that we continue to focus on and sustain the most impactful initiatives for our customers. It has made all the difference. Ana Magalhaes, Customer Experience Director, Marketing Together we dream more, together we achieve more Radiometer People and together we succeed more 24 United by purpose Radiometer is a highly purpose driven company where our employees go to work every day to make a difference. This sense of purpose is reflected in our high sense of engagement that benefits not only our employees, but our customers as well. Motivation, engagement and enablement are not Customer focus and care & well-being only essential to our employees’ well-being; they are in centre key to the positive experience our teams provide to our customers every day. The results of our annual Customer focus and care & well-being are two factors engagement cycle generate data and insights that that tie closely to the success of our business. Our help us continuously improve the way we work, to the strong customer focus helps us create innovative benefit of our teams and our customers. solutions that directly address the needs of our customers. We also care about creating conditions We measure and follow up on the level of that make it possible for everyone to have good engagement among our employees through our relationships and balance between work, family annual engagement cycle. Through this cycle we life and spare time as there is no doubt that having generate insights and data that help us identify the capable, motivated associates is key to our success. themes that are important to our employees and set ourselves ambitious goals to improve. However, the scores in the 2019 engagement survey in these two areas were lower than we had hoped. Highly engaged colleagues At the company level, we are therefore specifically focusing on improving customer focus as well as care We are proud to have highly engaged colleagues & well-being. We are conducting focus groups among all around the world, who make Radiometer a great our associates to better understand how the two place to work. In 2019, an impressive 91% of our areas are experienced in 2020. This will enable us to total employees made their voice heard through continuously improve as a workplace and create the our annual engagement survey with several best conditions for our employees.9 geographies reaching 100% participation rate. Overall, we improved our company engagement score by 3 points to 72%7 and even though we are now above the global IBM norm for engagement8, we will use the results as the basis for both a global companywide action plan and local action plans, so we can become an even better place to work. Sustainability Report 2019 25 Enhancing our work environment Radiometer People 26 Enhancing our work environment Our promise to put life first is not limited to the people we serve and lives saved by caregivers around the world. It extends to how we create working conditions that make it possible for everyone to stay healthy and safe as well as keeping a sustainable balance between work, family life and spare time. The main risks of securing a healthy and safe working Topics at these meetings included ‘Stop stress’ environment and well-being for our employees hosted by an external partner with a focus on how are found to be mental and physical health of our to prevent and reduce stress, ‘Sleep2Perform’ employees. communicating the importance of restitution and advise for good sleep and ‘Power Off’ – a lecture on A healthy and safe working how to survive in a digital world, where we are never environment “ ‘Off’ and where we are accessible 24h/day. In 2019 we agreed on a final draft of a global Environment, Health and Safety policy for Radiometer, continued the deployment of a comprehensive Environment, Health and Safety We need our working environment risk assessment and layered audit tools10 across to be safe and healthy – because it is Radiometer production sites. This puts us in shape good business and because respect to focus on issuing and implementing the global for the individual is a value that lies at Environment, Health and Safety policy and further develop the Radiometer Environment, Health and the heart of our business. Safety management system in 2020.11 Per Strømsborg, Director of Facility and Global EHS Strong focus on well-being Further, we continued to educate Denmark-based As an ambitious company with high expectations to managers – 30 managers in 2019 and shop stewards, our employees, we emphasize that all employees EHS representatives and HR employees in how to have a responsibility to assist in creating, maintaining spot and prevent stress. We also evaluated usage and developing a safe, healthy and inclusive working and effect of managers’ tools and models and we environment. However, managers have a special introduced health initiatives such as ‘We bike to responsibility to do so and are empowered to take work’, with free bike repair onsite, running training action. events preparing for a lake run and DHL. To best support our leaders, we increased our In 2020 we will continue the roll out of tools and focus in 2019 on preventive actions to reduce and knowledge of stress prevention among employees avoid work related stress starting with the Danish in Denmark as well as training managers. We will organization. continue to evaluate and improve our prevention tools and models based on 2019 feedback. As part Special focus on work related stress of this, we will investigate global use of the existing In 2019, based on our local employee policies, we tools and resources by assessing an online tool with implemented a Radiometer Stress Prevention Action 1-2 pilot projects in Radiometer subsidiaries during Plan for all employees including guiding principles 2020. for taking action if an employee identifies an We will continue our physical health initiatives for employee or colleague with signs of stress. We did all employees in Denmark e.g. through ‘We bike so by rolling out tools and models to guide Denmark to work’, free bike repair onsite, running training based employees in identifying signs of personal event, lake run and DHL 2020. In addition our Danish or work-related stress among themselves and their employees can look forward to more Go-Homeemployees and we invited for Go-Home-Meetings Meetings based on the topic of healthy lifestyle, how with focus on well-being for the entire organization. to increase your physical health, stress prevention and job satisfaction. Sustainability Report 2019 27 Environment and climate The view from our headquarter is a constant reminder Radiometer of our responsibility towards nature 28 “ We continuously work to minimize waste by improving quality of products and consumables, and to phase out toxic chemicals. Kasper Schweitz Vice President, R&D Reporting requirements Danish Financial Statements Act, §99a, Environment and climate UN Global Compact, COP, Environment Energy Consumption Product End-of-Life Customers’ Sustainability Priorities Sustainability Report 2019 29 Connected beyond the box At Radiometer, we don’t see improving patient care and accommodating for the environment as an either or. Radiometer is on a fast track to change from a Proactivity and remote support product-based model to a value-based model, driven by software-based services and solutions. We strive to broaden our IT and Internet of Things portfolio to ensure the highest possible analyzer We are dedicated to bring people, data and processes uptime for our customers – so that they can together to deliver solutions that can help our continuously enhance the efficiency and accuracy of customers improve patient care. patient evaluation and monitoring. We believe patient outcomes can improve if we With our connected solutions, we aim to improve the encourage people and technology to be better operational productivity and effectiveness of health connected to one another. care organizations by helping them to streamline clinical processes, information, and workflows. This allows for proactivity and remote support which is one of the ways in which we are taking responsibility for our customers and the environment. “ Seamless and reliable technologies enable me to help more patients, while making my day run more smoothly. Chief Physician, Emergency Department Radiometer Environment and climate 30 Continuously improving environmental performance As a growing global production company, we undeniably have an impact on the environment. Being mindful of our impact and determined to improve our environmental performance continues to be an area of focus for us.12 We follow all rules and regulations, and want to do our part in fighting climate change. We have identified generation of waste, use of hazardous chemicals and energy consumption as our significant climate and environmental aspects. In 2019 we agreed on a final draft of a global Environment, Health and Safety policy for Radiometer, we have undertaken second round of energy audits of applicable facilities under the EU Energy Efficiency Directive, we have improved processes for collection and quality of environmental data and have substituted hazardous chemicals for various less hazardous chemicals in select manufacturing processes. When looking to 2020, we plan to issue and implement the global Environment Health and Safety policy for Radiometer and when feasible, continue the substitution of hazardous chemicals.13 Customers’ sustainability priorities Customer-centricity is one of our core values. The focus is to continuously improve products, services and processes to add value to the everyday of our customers, simplifying and enhancing their experience of what it is to be a Radiometer customer. This value is tied to sustainability. Our customers have a natural concern for patient treatment, safety and compliance. However, an increasing number of customers are also asking Radiometer about policies regarding e.g. the environment, energy and waste reduction. Therefore, we believe our customer-centricity and sustainability focus are intertwined and we continue to investigate how we can best support the sustainability priorities of our customers now and in the future – in 2020 and beyond. Sustainability Report 2019 31 The society around us Radiometer 32 “ As a company deeply committed to ethical business practices and compliance, we have systems in place to train our employees in our Code of Conduct, detect any noncompliance and unethical behavior, and manage our channel partners. Henrik Schimmell President, Radiometer Reporting requirements Danish Financial Statements Act, §99a, Human rights Danish Financial Statements Act, §99a, Anti-corruption and bribery UN Global Compact, COP, Human rights UN Global Compact, COP, Anti-corruption Foundation for Sustainable Business Sustainability Report 2019 33 Running our business with integrity At Radiometer, we base our collaboration with health care professionals on transparency and internally we promote an open and honest working environment where compliance concerns are raised. Interaction with health care professionals As a global company and a leader within the diagnostics industry, we interact and collaborate with health care professionals across the world. Our Code of Conduct emphasizes that our interactions with customers must be based on achieving the best outcomes for patients. All interactions with health care organizations and professionals must respect the medical profession’s ability to make independent decisions regarding treatment of patients. Under no circumstances can there be any interaction with health care professionals by offering them undue or improper advantages in order to promote a sale or the use of Radiometer’s products. Radiometer complies with existing global disclosure requirements and we continue to enhance and streamline our reporting procedures and processes internally to address the growing number of requirements across the globe. In 2019, we developed a targeted Interacting with U.S. Health Care Professionals policy based on the updated AdvaMed Code of Ethics. This was a refresh of the principles that already guide our interactions with our customers to reflect evolving business models and ethical standards. In 2020, we will ensure continued and focused communication and training reinforcing our commitment to ethical decision making and compliance ownership and introduce a global system to manage the engagement process of health care professionals. Radiometer The society around us 34 Speak up! Integrity goes far beyond interacting with health care professionals. We value an open and honest working environment where we encourage employees to raise compliance concerns knowing that we will deal with them in a fair and transparent manner. “ Radiometer does not accept any form of bribery or corruption. We require our employees and our third Our Speak Up! Program is the reporting mechanism that allows all employees in Danaher to raise their party partners to live the concerns via a dedicated telephone line or via our company intranet. Employees can raise their principles of our Code of concerns anonymously if they prefer to do so and can Conduct and to speak up be sure that we track and investigate all cases. if they observe or suspect All companies operating on a global scale will from time to time experience misconduct from employees any unethical or illegal or business partners. Recognizing this fact, behavior. We are proud that Radiometer has set a target of one speak-up case per 100 employees, which reflects the benchmark across our long-term commitment industries. to ethical business practices From 2018 to 2019 we have experienced a slight ties directly with the UN’s increase in speak-ups as the number of substantiated and non-substantiated reports has moved from 31 to Sustainable Development 34, including both substantiated reports and nonGoal 16: Peace, Justice and substantiated reports.14 We will continue our efforts to promote the initiative and foster an open working Strong Institutions. environment where all employees globally can raise Marianne Helstrup, concerns without the fear of retaliation. Vice President, Legal, General Counsel Speak-Up cases can include: Financial cases: Unfair competition / Revenue Recognition / Improper payments / Gifts / Fraud HR cases: Management or Supervisory Competence / Behavior / Retaliation / Harassment Other cases: Conflict of Interest / Customs/Import/ Export Issues / Quality and regulatory affairs issues Sustainability Report 2019 35 Anti-corruption, integrity and our online compliance training, did so.15 In 2020, we compliance will continue focusing on audit and monitoring by improving our standardized, systematic approach to As a large, global company, we recognize the closing any findings. Furthermore, we will continue inherent risk when navigating in the global market. the compliance training program and develop a We also recognize that, from time to time, we more robust, risk-based approach to address training may encounter corruption related behavior and needs. Finally, we will put in place a more formal that corruption poses a considerable obstacle for process to manage conflict of interests building economic and social development around the world. further upon our Code of Conduct. Furthermore, it impedes business growth, escalates costs and poses serious legal and reputational risks Human rights to a company. As communicated in our Code of Conduct and our In response to this, Radiometer considers corruption current Corporate Social Responsibility policy, we as a significant on-going risk to our company. Based are committed to respecting the human rights and on an annual corruption risk assessment, we apply dignity of everyone, and we support international ongoing monitoring and specific audit activities on efforts to promote and protect human rights. We high-risk markets, ensure anti-corruption training conducted a materiality assessment in 2018 to be for our employees and channel partners and apply a able to work more strategically with sustainability. thorough due diligence of our partners. In this assessment we did not identify any salient In 2019 we based a number of initiatives on this topic Human Rights issues. In 2019, there has been no based on our Code of Conduct. We implemented cause to change this assessment. Nevertheless, we an improved audit and monitoring program, we are aware that risks of adverse impacts can arise. continued efforts on online compliance training in the You can read about our responsible procurement Code of Conduct combined with 72 tailored, training procedures below and our work with the well-being of Code of Conduct related topics and all of the 97.7% of our employees and work-related human rights percent of our associates, who are required to take risks in the People Section. Radiometer Radiometer The society around us 36 Working responsibly with suppliers With our commitment to responsible procurement, we continuously work to ensure sustainable supply of high quality components, needed for our production as well as on-time delivery. This is a key part in our responsibility to support caregivers in helping critically ill patients across the globe. ​​With our commitment to responsible procurement Our Supplier Base Management system provides us and supplier relationships, we expect that our with tools and processes to ensure that the purchase suppliers comply with all applicable laws and of materials and services are appointed to the best regulations within integrity and compliance, labor performing suppliers using Quality, Delivery and Cost and employment and environment, health and as the direction. safety. 16 Source Supplier: Approve/qualify new suppliers to the supplier base; Comply with the quality, technical and business requirements. Measure: In a consistent manner Source Supplier collect data on how the suppliers are performing Measure Supplier Base Improve Management Improve: Using the measured performance as a starting point for improvement activities with the suppliers Evaluate Evaluate: Based on measured and Phase-out other input evaluate the state and performance of the supplier base (QDC) Phase-out: Dictated by business needs, evaluation and external factors suppliers are phased out Sustainability Report 2019 37 Supplier approval & qualification Supplier risk management When requesting a new supplier we align on all In order to secure our supply chain we continuously expectations up front, as we wish to develop longassess how vulnerable we are and identify the term mutually beneficial relationships with our suppliers most critical to our business. Through suppliers. Requesting a new supplier therefore supplier risk assessments and risk mitigation plans, includes a detailed description of quality, technical we work to minimize impact and secure fast recovery and business requirements as well as approval when crises occur. extent. Channel partners Supplier performance measurement In Danaher and Radiometer, we take a systematic To make sure we stay aligned with the initial risk-based approach to ensuring that our channel expectations, we measure the performance of our partners share the same ethics and values as we suppliers on a continuous basis. We do this by do. Depending on the risk level of the country in focusing on the number of defect components, the question, we determine the scope and detail of the ability to deliver on time, specification deviation or investigations that are conducted by an independent work that fails to meet quality standards and by third party. The process includes comprehensive due conducting Voice of Customer surveys. diligence screening of new channel partners, annual anti-corruption training, compliance to our Channel Supplier base evaluation Partner Code of Conduct and re-screening of current channel partners. We manage these processes all Supplier scorecards and Quarterly Business Reviews through an online system. are tools used to continuously and systematically work towards improving supplier performance, In 2019, we implemented additional improvements to aligning on a common understanding and a focused the process with additional guidance and training to effort to improve the cooperation between the aid the business on evaluating risk and implementing companies. appropriate countermeasures where applicable. Radiometer Radiometer The society around us 38 Giving back Giving back is part of Radiometer’s commitment to corporate responsibility. Being a market leader within blood gas affecting millions of lives every year, we are aware of our responsibility to improve global health care and contribute to positive impact in our local communities. As a medical device company we support causes or The Night Ravens in Husum and Tingbjerg: projects aligned with our business purpose or causes An NGO of volunteers with the purpose of increasing and activities with a positive impact on our local the feeling of security in the streets of Husum and communities. We base our decisions to donate on Tingbjerg at night. our Global Donations Policy & Grants, Donations and Sponsorships Procedure, our policy for Interacting Igne:oya Design workshop for women: An initiative with U.S. Health care Professionals and our Code of with the aim to create a social space for women new Conduct. to the Danish society. Supporting our communities Brønshøj Football Club: A club with a long history as the social gathering point for people of all ages To ensure that Radiometer’s donations are beneficial, in the area of Brønshøj. In 2019, we supported with we focus our efforts on health care related activities participation fees for vulnerable children. including indigent care, patient education and awareness, advocacy and charitable endeavors related to the health care areas that are consistent with our Mission, Vision and Values, including charitable endeavors within our Radiometer communities where we maintain operations. Japan: Radiometer is proud of our long tradition of Ogyaa Donation Fund Radiometer in Japan supporting our local communities. Some of the donated to the “Japan-Mother Ogyaa Donation causes we supported in 2019 included: Fund.” The vision of the Ogyaa Fund is to save and help disabled children in Japan. One of the main objectives for the fund is to raise public awareness about mentally and physically disabled children. Denmark: Holiday Help Christmas can be a difficult season for economically challenged families. Every year in December, the Danish Red Cross grants “Holiday United States: Help” to families who need a little financial support Radiometer America donated products to the medical for the holiday season. Last year, 59 families in mission trip of the Texas Children’s Hospital’s to the Tingbjerg-Husum community close to our Santa Cruz, Bolivia. headquarters received Holiday Help in the form of gift certificates to a grocery store. We made a donation to cover all the families that the Red Cross expected to support in our community in 2019 through the Holiday-Help program. Sustainability Report 2019 39 Appendix Geographic distribution of participants in Female Fast Track Program Country Cohort 1 Denmark 9 Finland 4 France 1 Netherlands Poland 1 Spain Sweden 2 United Kingdom 1 United States of America 3 Grand Total 21 Elaborated update on progress on engagement Existing Policies Actions and results in 2019 Planned activities for 2020 Local employee Global focus on supervisor Global, local and team-specific policies effectiveness and training of action plans based on the 2019 managers based on the 2018 results. engagement results. This resulted in a 3% improvement. Focus group interviews to understand better how we can improve Local action plans carried out on on customer focus and care & all sites. well-being. Company wide focus: People Leaders with a direct Increased employees’ perception supervisor effectiveness in the of being proud to be associated lowest quartile of our leaders, with Radiometer, by focusing on need to develop a development communication. or performance objective related to leadership, to ensure improvePerception of trust in our top ment of their leadership of their management increased globally team. with 2% to a 7% above the global norm. Radiometer Appendix 40 Estimation energy consumption and generated waste Total energy consumption (MWh) 25000 20000 15000 10000 5000 0 2016 2017 2018 2019 Total waste generated (metric tons) 1400 1200 1000 800 600 400 200 0 2016 2017 2018 2019 Number of speak-ups Sustainability Report 2019 41 References 1. https://www.danaher.com/our-businesses/business-directory?eref_node_titles=All 2. Talent: A general term embracing all people working at Radiometer globally 3. https://www.census.gov/topics/population/race/about.html 4. Data as of December 31, 2019 As defined by: Top management: Percentage of men and women at Vice President level or above. 5. For Geographic distribution of participants in Female Fast Track Program go to page 40 6. https://www.census.gov/topics/population/race/about.html 7. The general engagement score is calculated based on the responses to the four questions that are closest related to engagement within the total survey. 8. The global IBM norm for engagement allows us to compare ourselves with peers who use IBM to track their engagement progress 9. For more elaborated update on progress since 2018, please go to page 40 10. Layered audit tools ensure that processes are in place for regular consideration of Environment Health and Safety issues at all levels of the organization 11. Existing policies: Danaher Environment, Health & Safety (EHS) Policy 12. Expressed in the Danaher Policy for environment, health and safety 13. For Estimation of Energy Consumption and Generated Waste go to page 41 14. See more details in chart on page 41. 15. Non-completion directly affects the performance review of the associates in question 16. Our Supplier Code of Conduct is supported by our governance procedures in Radiometer and across Danaher and the integration of responsible procurement is done through Radiometer’s Supplier Base Management process. Radiometer Appendix 42 Sustainability Report 2019 43 Whatever comes next, we make sure life comes first Radiometer products and solutions are used in hospitals, clinics, and laboratories in over 130 countries, providing information on critical parameters in acute care diagnostics. Through connected solutions, expert knowledge, and trusted partnership, we help health care professionals make diagnostic decisions to improve patient care. Contact Karina Hagström Jensen karinajensen@radiometer.dk +45 3135 8272 © Radiometer Medical ApS, 2700 Brønshøj, Denmark, 2020. All Rights Reserved. MAPSSS-000241 R1.
