Mitsubishi Electric Group CSR Report 2019 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social Contents ■ Contents ／ About the Report ............................................... 1 ■ Governance ............................................................................................ 56 ■ About Mitsubishi Electric .......................................................... 2 Corporate Governance ................................................................. 56 Corporate Strategy ............................................................................... 2 Compliance ............................................................................................. 61 Global Operations/Corporate Data/Financial Results ....... 3 Risk Management .............................................................................. 67 Mitsubishi Electric's Business Segments ............................. 5 Our Approach to Information Security ............................. 71 Research and Development ...................................................... 77 ■ President's Message ........................................................................ 7 Intellectual Property ........................................................................ 78 ■ Initiatives to Create Value ....................................................... 9 Communication with Shareholders and Investors .... 80 ■ Initiatives that Contribute to Addressing Social Issues ........................................................................................... 11 ■ Environment ........................................................................................... 81 ■ Social ............................................................................................................... 92 ■ Initiatives Related to the Value Chain .................... 23 Responsibility to Customers ...................................................... 92 ■ CSR Materiality .................................................................................... 25 Human Rights ..................................................................................... 105 ■ CSR at Mitsubishi Electric ....................................................... 33 Labor Practices ................................................................................. 109 CSR Management ............................................................................... 33 Supply Chain Management .................................................... 126 Communication with Stakeholders ................................... 48 Philanthropic Activities ............................................................... 135 About the Report This report provides information about corporate social responsibility References (CSR) initiatives by the Mitsubishi Electric Group to help realize a sustainable society. It primarily reports on significant activities, events, and • ISO26000 changes that occurred in fiscal 2019 (year ending March 31, 2019). Based • GRI Standards, Global Reporting Initiative on the PDCA (plan-do-check-act) approach, in reporting our activities • Environmental Reporting Guidelines (2018), Ministry of the we tried to go beyond just presenting our principles and the results of Environment activities to date in order to also refer to future policies and issues. • Business Owner Environmental Performance Indicator Guideline We endeavor to fulfill our responsibility of presenting information to the (2002), Ministry of the Environment public in order to broaden our range of communication with stakeholders. • Environmental Accounting Guidelines (2005), Ministry of the We appreciate any and all frank and honest feedback intended to further Environment improve the report. Reporting Medium Structure of the Report Non-financial information about the Mitsubishi Electric Group is Aiming to fulfill our responsibility of presenting information to the disclosed in the CSR section of the website and CSR Report, and public, the report discloses information on our CSR management environmental information is introduced in detail in the environment initiatives and other activities from the aspects of governance, the section of the website and Environmental Performance Review. The environment, and society. CSR Report is available on our website together with the CSR Report Highlights Edition aimed at communicating with stakeholders. Period Covered by the Report In addition, we provide information such as ESG survey index to April 1, 2018 – March 31, 2019 notify our various initiatives comprehensively. *Also includes some information on policies, targets, and plans for fiscal 2020 and thereafter. Regarding Future Projections, Plans, and Targets This report contains not only statements of past and present facts Scope of the Report related to Mitsubishi Electric Corporation and its affiliates (Mitsubishi Social Aspects :  Electric Group), but also future projections, plans, targets, and other forward-looking statements. Such projections, plans, and targets Primarily covers activities of Mitsubishi Electric Corporation *The range of data compiled is noted individually. constitute suppositions or judgments based on information available as of the time they are stated. Future business activities and conditions Environmental Aspects :  may differ from projections, plans, and targets due to changes in Primarily covers performance of Mitsubishi Electric Corporation and its various external factors. major affiliates (Japan and overseas) The Mitsubishi Electric Group conducts business in the form of *Detailed information on economic performance is provided in the Environment development, manufacturing, and sales in a broad range of areas, and section of our website. these activities take place both in Japan and overseas. Therefore, the Economic Aspects :  group's financial standing and business performance may be affected by a variety of factors, including trends in the global economy, social Primarily covers performance of Mitsubishi Electric Corporation, conditions, laws, tax codes, litigation, and other legal procedures. We consolidated subsidiaries, and equity method affiliates would ask stakeholders to keep these points in mind when reviewing *Detailed information on economic performance is provided in the Investors this report. section of our website. Overview of CSR-related information disclosure Financial Information Non-ﬁnancial Information More information related to CSR at the Mitsubishi Electric CSR (website) Investors (website) Environment Group is published on our website 社 長 (website) CSR Report Asset Securities Report CSR ● ● Annual Report Corporate Governance Environment ● Report Company Overview of CSR-related information disclosure 1 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social Corporate Strategy The Mitsubishi Electric Group has positioned corporate social responsibility (CSR) The Group has taken on the challenge of resolving diversifying social as a pillar of its corporate management, based on its Corporate Mission and challenges including environmental issues and resource and energy issues Seven Guiding Principles. Accordingly, the Group has made committed efforts to through its products, systems and services. In doing so, it promotes initiatives to become a corporation whose actions are rated highly through its initiatives create values, such as simultaneous achievement of “sustainability,” and “safety, toward solving social challenges. In other words, we aim to become a corporation security, and comfort.” In these ways, the Mitsubishi Electric Group pursues the that is trusted by its stakeholders, including society, customers, shareholders, and sustainable growth of the entire Group. employees, and that earns their satisfaction through its business practices. 《Strategy》 Mitsubishi Electric will provide integrated solutions to address diversifying social challenges, in the four fields of Life, Industry, Infrastructure and Mobility, uniting all the capabilities inside and outside of the Group. For this purpose, we will enhance our business foundation fostered over the past 100 years and further transform business models. *Business foundation fostered over the past100 years: connection with customers, technologies, personnel, products, corporate culture,etc. The Mitsubishi Electric Group will continually improve its technologies Corporate and services by applying creativity to all aspects of its business. Mission By doing so, we enhance the quality of life in our society. Provide integrated solutions uniting all the capabilities inside and outside of the Group Initiatives to Transforming business models Create Value Enhance the 100-year business foundation × Strengthen all forms of collaboration = Evolution of Technology Synergies and Business Synergies Mobility Life Enrich leisure time Eliminate regional disparities Comfortable life Zero traffic accidents Improve QOL* of mobility impaired people Health Comfortable transport Eliminate traffic congestion Equal opportunity for education and training Build communities Social Reduce air pollution Prevent global warming Preserve the ecosystem Challenges Measures for deteriorating infrastructure Avoid water shortage/ food shortage Clean water Industry and technological innovation etc. Prepare for natural disasters Address labor shortage Eliminate poverty/ inequalities Response to uneven distribution and depletion of resources Prepare for man-made threats Infrastructure Sustainable society Industry *QOL:Quality of Life 2 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social Global Operations Europe Revenue ¥453.7billion Asia % of total Revenue 10.0% Aﬃliated Companies 26 Japan Number of Employees approx. 7,400 Revenue ¥1,013.8billion Revenue ¥2,556.6billion % of total Revenue 22.4% % of total Revenue 56.6% Aﬃliated Companies 70 Aﬃliated Companies 95 approx. 38,200 approx. 92,000 Number of Employees Number of Employees Corporate Data （As （AsofofMarch March31, 31,2019） 2019） Mitsubishi Electric Corporation Tokyo Building, 2-7-3, Marunouchi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-8310, Japan President & CEO : Takeshi Sugiyama Phone : +81 (3) 3218-2111 Established : January 15, 1921 Paid-in Capital : ¥175,820 million Shares Issued : 2,147,201,551 shares Consolidated Revenue : ¥4,519,921 million Consolidated Total Assets : ¥4,356,211 million Employees : 145,817 3 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social * Other North Revenue ¥66.1billion America % of total Revenue 1.5% Aﬃliated Companies 2 approx. 1,500 Number of Employees * Oceania, Central and South America, and Africa Revenue ¥429.4billion % of total Revenue 9.5% Aﬃliated Companies 13 approx. 6,700 Number of Employees Financial Results Performance for the Year Ended March 31, 2019 Yen U.S. dollars (millions) (thousands) Years ended March 31 2018 2019 2019 Revenue Breakdown by Business Segment Revenue ¥4,444,424 ¥4,519,921 $40,720,009 Operating profit 327,444 290,477 2,616,910 Energy and Electric Net profit attributable to Mitsubishi Electric Corp. stockholders 255,755 226,648 2,041,874 Others 13.2% Systems 25.2% Total assets 4,305,580 4,356,211 39,245,144 Revenue 676,736 million Revenue 1,296,745 million Bonds and borrowings 311,950 298,438 2,688,631 Mitsubishi Electric Corp. stockholders’ equity 2,294,174 2,399,946 21,621,135 Capital expenditure (Based on the recognized value of 181,513 198,442 1,787,766 property, plant and equipment) R&D expenditures 210,308 212,794 1,917,063 Yen U.S. dollars Home Per Share Amounts Appliances 20.9% Industrial Earnings per share attributable to Mitsubishi Electric Corp. stockholders Revenue Automation ¥119.19 ¥105.65 1,074,044 million Systems 28.5% Basic $0.952 Revenue Diluted 119.19 105.65 0.952 1,467,633 million Cash dividends declared 40 40 0.360 % Statistical Information Operating profit ratio 7.4% 6.4% — Return on equity (ROE) 11.7 9.7 — Bonds and borrowings to total assets 7.2 6.9 — Electronic Information and Devices 3.9% Communication Revenue Systems 8.3% 1 The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) from the year ended March 31, 2019 and also for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018 as comparative information. 199,908 million Revenue 426,269 million 2 R&D expenditures include elements spent on quality improvements which constitute manufacturing costs. 3 Diluted earnings per share attributable to Mitsubishi Electric Corp. stockholders is equal to Basic earnings per share attributable to Mitsubishi Electric Corp. stockholders, as no dilutive securities existed. 4 U.S. dollar amounts are translated from yen at the rate of ¥111= U.S.$1, the approximate rate on the Tokyo Foreign Exchange Market on March 31, 2019. Note: Inter-segment sales are included in the amounts of the diagram above. 4 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric's Business Segments Building Systems Providing safe and smooth vertical movement and building systems solutions that are environmentally friendly, secure, comfortable, and eﬃcient Over a million Mitsubishi Electric elevators and escalators are in operation in over 90 countries around the world, contributing to the safe and comfortable vertical movement of many people. What is more, by providing eﬃcient control and management of building systems such as air conditioning and lighting, as well as the linking of security systems and various business systems, we oﬀer building systems solutions that are environmentally friendly, secure, comfortable, and eﬃcient. Main ■ Elevators ■ Escalators ■ Building management systems products ■ Building security systems Factory Automation Systems Underpinning manufacturing in the world as a leading FA supplier We are one of the major FA suppliers in the world underpinning manufacturing by developing and providing a wide range of FA products including PLCs and laser processing machines. We propose e-F@ctory which oﬀer solutions to reduce total cost of development, production, and maintenance and to support advanced manufacturing by utilizing FA technologies and IT technologies. Main ■ Programmable Logic Controllers(PLCs) ■ Circuit breakers ■ Servo systems products ■ Industrial robots ■ Laser processing machines ■ Energy-saving support systems Public Systems Supporting a better tomorrow with cutting edge technologies at work in our everyday life Our solutions cover a number of ﬁelds that underpin our everyday life, including advanced social infrastructure and public facilities and services. We enhance quality of living by creating solutions that are truly needed by society ̶ everything from water environment systems, to solutions for making society safer and more secure, to providing video entertainment. Main ■ Water treatment technologies ■ Aircraft management systems products ■ Large screen video systems ■ Disaster information systems Energy Systems Building power infrastructure across the entire energy value chain as one of Japan's foremost suppliers Energy systems represent a core strength that we have engaged in since our founding. We have contributed greatly to the development of power infrastructure around the world in all phases of the energy value chain, from generation and transmission to distribution. As demand grows for clean energy, we are actively developing new energy businesses related to smart grids and other ﬁelds. ■ Turbine generators ■ Protection and control systems ■ Vacuum breakers Main ■ Transformers ■ Substation systems ■ Grid stabilization systems ■ Switchgears products ■ Photovoltaic systems ■ Power conversion systems ■ Superconductor-applied products Transportation Systems A leader in railway solutions providing a full range of equipment and systems for rolling stock We developed an unrivaled level of technical prowess from our involvement in the development of rolling stock and on ground systems for all of Japan's Shinkansen since it began service back in 1964. We are also utilizing our expertise in power and communications across various ﬁelds to improve energy eﬃciency. Our products have already been adopted by more than 30 countries around the world. Our goal is to support comfortable rail services in Japan and abroad that are both safe and energy eﬃcient. ■ Propulsion systems ■ Air conditioning systems for rolling stock Main ■ Rolling stock information management systems ■ Electricity control systems products ■ Train vision ■ Transportation planning and control systems Automotive Equipment Contributing to the advancements in motorization with a broad lineup of products We were the ﬁrst in the world to produce an electric power steering system and today many of our products hold a leading market share globally, enabling us to support the creation of safer, more secure, and more comfortable cars. We are helping make safer, more secure cars, by reﬂecting the various needs of the automobile society to automotive equipments, such as electric vehicles, hybrid electric vehicles, or automated cars. ■ Charging & Starting products ■ Electric power steering system products Main ■ Engine management products ■ Car multimedia products ■ Electriﬁcation components products ■ ADAS products 5 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social Space Systems Cutting edge technologies at work across the vast business ﬁelds in the space industry We have participated in the development of more than 500 satellites in various countries around the world. We are able to conduct all aspects of satellite development in-house, including design, production, and testing using our test facilities that can reproduce the environment in space. We are also a world leader in large telescopes, too, having been involved with the Subaru Telescope in Hawaii and the ALMA Telescope in Chile. Main ■ Satellites ■ Large telescopes ■ Onboard satellite equipment products Information & Communication Systems Making communications easier and more convenient with technologies that send information We supply products for optical communication systems that enable high-speed transfers of content-rich data, such as HD videos, over the Internet using existing communications infrastructure. Through this business line, we are helping to make society a better place with an assortment of solutions, including video surveillance systems that make society safer and more secure as well as wireless communication systems for smart meters that optimize energy usage. Main ■ Optical communication systems ■ Wireless communication systems products ■ Video surveillance systems Semiconductors & Devices Providing key devices underpinning a more aﬄuent society, harnessing cutting edge technologies We supply semiconductors and devices that make our lives more aﬄuent as key devices in equipment used in a wide range of ﬁelds, from home electronics to space. In particular, power semiconductors devices are used in a truly wide range of ﬁelds, including home products, industrial equipment, electric vehicles, power control systems for traction, motor control systems, wind turbines, and photovoltaic systems. The performance of our products helps to lower energy usage in each of these ﬁelds, too. Main ■ Power semiconductors modules ■ Optical devices products ■ High frequency devices ■ TFT-LCD modules Air Conditioning Systems Providing comfortable and energy-eﬃcient air conditioning for industry and in our everyday life We provide not only in Japan but around the world with a broad range of highly energy-eﬃcient air conditioning systems created with comfortable indoor environments in mind, from the Kirigamine brand of room air conditioners to air conditioner systems for stores, oﬃces and other buildings. At the same time, we also supply a number of low-temperature products and systems for use in areas from distribution to industry, including cool warehouses and cold storage, as well as ice makers, dehumidiﬁers and other equipment for warehouses, food processing plants and ice skating rinks. Main ■ Room air conditioners ■ Commercial air conditioners products ■ Low-temperature systems, water heaters, and industrial cooling and heating systems Home Products Making the lives of our customers more comfortable We supply an assortment of home electronics for the kitchen, living room, bedroom, and other locations. We will continue to make the lives of customers more comfortable by supplying products that meet and exceed customer expectations. Main ■ LCD TVs ■ Refrigerators and freezers ■ Vacuum cleaners ■ Jar rice cookers products IT Solutions Providing IT solutions to make all aspects of our life more convenient, comfortable, and advanced We deliver security technologies including encryption, IoT technologies, and cloud computing platforms to ﬁnancial institutions, manufacturing plants, social infrastructure (transportation providers, airlines, airports, the power industry), developers, and others. In the process, our IT solutions underpin a more aﬄuent life and society for all. Main ■ Automated radar terminal systems ■ Flight information systems products ■ Large-scale network systems ■ Large-scale security systems 6 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social President's President's Message Message We will Contribute to Enhancing Quality of Life in our Society and Achieving Sustainable Growth Enhancing quality of life in our society including society, customers, shareholders, and employees, while at the same time nurturing sound growth. through corporate activities * The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) comprise a set of targets adopted by the U.N. General Assembly in 2015 as part of an action plan to be accomplished by 2030 that would end poverty, protect the planet and ensure prosperity for all. Since our inception, we, the Mitsubishi Electric Group, have been contributing to society primarily by oﬀering products and services. Today s society is diﬀerent; the pace of change continues to accelerate and social issues such as labor, human rights, and Initiatives to address the SDGs environmental issues including climate change and marine plastics, are coming to the fore. We must draw strength from parties inside The Mitsubishi Electric Group will contribute to meeting the 17 and outside our group to help resolve these issues through the SDGs through all corporate activities. In particular, we will focus on various products, technologies, and services we produce. This gives Goal 7: Aﬀordable and clean energy; Goal 11: Sustainable cities and us a reason to exist and deﬁnes our role in achieving the Corporate communities; and Goal 13: Climate action. These are the goals that Mission, Enhance the quality of life in our society. most closely align with the strengths of an integrated electronics People's focus on values has shifted to sustainability and the and electrical manufacturer, and we will address them by environment, leading to formulation of the globally standardized generating value through technological and business synergies. goals called the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)*. From this Note that these three goals relate to the ﬁrst two of our CSR we feel heightened expectations for companies to help resolve materialities: realize a sustainable society and provide safety, social issues, and to maintain the trust of various stakeholders, the security, and comfort. Mitsubishi Electric Group too must satisfy the expectations of In the area of energy, it is necessary to make the most of society. electricity from solar or wind power generation and use it as a basic This determination led us to sign the UN Global Compact in local electric power source. In this light, we will supply devices to May 2018 to promote CSR activities that align with the international stabilize power grid capabilities and allow ﬂexible energy use. We standard. Also, as our long-term approach to environmental issues, will also enhance AI-enabled data analysis techniques to improve we have developed Environmental Sustainability Vision 2050 and generation eﬃciency. Meanwhile, reduction of CO2 emissions will announced our commitment Protect the air, land, and water with be promoted so that when people use our products, they are our hearts and technologies to sustain a better future for all. The contributing to our anti-climate change strategies. Group will also follow recommendations of the Task Force on In terms of city development, our contributions center on the Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). Group s social infrastructure business. For example, our Doppler We will do so because we support the underlying concept Lidar that measures wind velocity and direction around an airport is behind the SDGs: leave no-one behind. To realize a society that is sold globally, helping aircraft to take oﬀ and land safely. As for simultaneously sustainable and safe, secure, and comfortable, we disaster preparation, we are working toward practical products that are committed to delivering satisfaction to all parties related to us, help to prevent or reduce coastal disasters. Examples include an 7 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social image-based water level measurement system that monitors river The fourth CSR materiality of Strengthen corporate governance levels using cameras to detect ﬂoods caused by rainfall, and and compliance on a continuous basis is the essence of a Tsunami radar monitoring support technologies. Although it is company. In the area of corporate governance, venues have been impossible to completely prevent disasters from happening, we established for supplying information to and exchanging views with believe we can use products and technologies to predict them and Outside Directors, and the Board's performance has been minimize damage. constantly reviewed to further improve the Board of Directors' capacity to supervise management. We discuss with Outside Directors on speciﬁc themes that the Mitsubishi Electric Group must Consistently promoting CSR materiality focus on, including company-wide issues such as growth strategies and individual business strategies. Outside Directors provide The third CSR materiality of Respect human rights and promote valuable opinions through their diverse knowledge and experience. active participation of diverse human resources is also crucial. In In 2018, we discovered that one of our Group companies 2017, we formulated the Mitsubishi Electric Group Human Rights shipped products that did not meet the speciﬁcations required by Policy and have been enforcing it strictly. Going forward, not only the agreement signed with its customer. We are taking this matter within the Group but also the entire supply chain, it is necessary to seriously, recognizing that our strenuous eﬀorts toward instilling check for any human rights violations in our manufacturing process. ethics and compliance had not penetrated deeply enough. We will We will continue to actively hire women and non-Japanese continue our endeavors to embed these measures throughout the natives, embracing active participation of diverse human resources entire organization, including through top-down messages. There in the real sense instead of simply compensating for human also appears to have been a check function problem resulting in the resource shortages. As we expand our business globally, it is failure to detect the incident. This requires work to prevent the particularly important to give local hires an opportunity to play same problem from recurring. active and leading roles. Therefore, we have training programs and upgrade paths in place so that our human resources, regardless of where they are hired, will learn the corporate culture of the Aiming for sustainable growth together Mitsubishi Electric Group and play an active role. Also enjoying emphasis is Work Style Reforms. In the past, with our employees there were occupational injuries caused by working excessive overtime, and we are deeply sorry that these were allowed to The fundamental management policy of the Mitsubishi Electric occur. That should never happen again. Although we have made Group is Balanced Corporate Management. Trying to ﬁnd this progress in reducing working hours, we still have not seemed to balance in ﬁnance alone is, however, insuﬃcient. Assuming our improve work eﬃciency or quality in the real sense. In ﬁscal 2020, ﬁnancial ﬁgures are the height and weight and our corporate we will further promote a ﬂexible work style by taking advantage of social responsibility is the personality of our company, we must IT tools and the work-from-home system, and accelerate the rollout accept that society judges us on both of these aspects. While proﬁt of best practice. By doing so, we will change the quality of work generation, tax payment, and employment creation are essential itself and drive real work style reform that encourages everyone to parts of a company s operations, it must understand that building work with spirit. corporate value requires both social contribution and corporate ﬁnancial growth simultaneously. Companies therefore must achieve sustainable growth by addressing social issues as well. Our eﬀorts to Enhance the quality of life in our society as a whole, as laid out in the Corporate Mission, are supported by individual employees. If a company is to address social issues, it is imperative that these employees ﬁrst understand the social issues. Once they can seriously explore ways to resolve these issues, they are in a far better position to innovate and drive new business. Meanwhile, in addition to tackling social issues at work, I would encourage them to help local communities resolve issues through volunteer activities. Mitsubishi Electric will celebrate its 100th anniversary in ﬁscal 2021. I view this ﬁscal 2020 as a prime year to plan the direction of our company and what kind of company I want it to be for the next year and onward. I will share my ideas with employees as soon as I ﬁnalize them. To support our employees in improving themselves and working enthusiastically with a vision, I will foster a corporate culture that respects people, bring together all group capabilities, and walk with employees toward sustainable growth through solving social issues. Takeshi Sugiyama President & CEO 8 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social Initiatives Initiatives to Create to Create Value Value The Mitsubishi Electric Group has taken on the challenge of resolving diversifying social challenges including environmental issues and resource and energy issues through its products, systems and services. In doing so, it promotes initiatives to create values, such as simultaneous achievement of sustainability, and safety, security, and comfort. In these ways, the Mitsubishi Electric Corporate Mission The Mitsubishi Electric Group will continually improve its technologies and services by applying creativity to all aspects of its business. By doing so, enhance the quality of Growth ● Sustainable growth life in our society. To this end, all member of through providing solutions the Group will pursue the following Seven to social challenges Guiding Principles. ● Technology Synergies/ Business Synergies ● Agile response to changes Seven Guiding Principles in business environment 1. Trust Greater Proﬁtability Corporate Soundness Establish relationships with society, customers, shareholders, employees, and Eﬃciency Value ● Constantly review and refresh business business partners based on strong mutual ● Enhance capital portfolio eﬃciency trust and respect. ● Increase utilization ● Maintain sound ﬁnancial standing eﬃciency of natural ● Strengthen corporate 2. Quality resources and energy governance and ● Create a stronger compliance on a Provide the best products and services business foundation continuous with unsurpassed quality basis 3. Technology Social Excellent Products Increase Rewarding Pioneer new markets by promoting Contributions and Services Corporate Value Workplace research and development, and fostering technological innovation. Society Customer Shareholder Employee 4. Citizenship As a global player, contribution to the development of communities and society Always improving. Always delivering new value. as a whole. 5. Ethics and compliance In all endeavors, conduct ourselves in compliance with applicable laws and high ethical standards. 6. Environment Respect nature, and strive to protect and improve the global environment. ・ A wide range of technological assets such as controls and power electronics 7. Growth ・ Activities in diverse businesses with diﬀerent business features Assure fair earnings to build a foundation ・ Kaizen (improvement) culture taking root in every ﬁeld, for future growth. including production, quality management, sales, services, etc. 9 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social Initiatives to Create Value https://www.MitsubishiElectric.com/en/sustainability/csr/management/value̲creation/index.html Group pursues the sustainable growth of the entire Group. Meanwhile, by pursuing sustainable growth of the Group through all its corporate activities including initiatives to create value, the Group will also contribute to achieving the SDGs, common global goals. Focusing on the SDGs The four ﬁelds Initiatives That Support Business Environment Social Governance Customers Enhance the 100-year business Shareholders Employees Mitsubishi Electric foundation ×Strengthen all forms of Local Governments communities Group collaboration = Evolution of Technology Business partners Synergies and Business Synergies NGOs and NPOs CSR Materiality 10 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social Initiatives that Contribute to Addressing Social Issues Business Group Social Issues for Which Risks and 事業を通じた社会への貢献 取組一覧 Focusing on the SDGs Headquarters Opportunities Have Been Recognized and Evaluated Appropriate use of water Public Utility Systems Optimal use of energy Addressing climate change Group Measures against air, water, and soil pollution Waste reduction/management Optimal use of energy Introduction of clean energy Energy & Industrial Sustainable use and development of resources Systems Group Proper management of chemical substances Addressing climate change Measures against air, water, and soil pollution Optimal use of energy Development and dissemination of innovative infrastructure Building Systems Group Development of safe, secure, comfortable and sustainable cities Waste reduction  ptimal use of energy O Introduction of clean energy Electronic Systems Group Creating secure, safe and comfortable sustainable cities Addressing climate change Prevention of deforestation Communication Systems S ustainable use and development of resources Waste reduction and management Group Addressing climate change O  ptimal use of energy Living Environment & Introduction of clean energy D  evelopment of safe, secure, comfortable and sustainable cities Digital Media Equipment Sustainable use and development of resources Group Proper management of chemical substances Addressing climate change S ustainable use and development of resources Factory Automation Proper management of chemical substances Addressing climate change Systems Group Measures against air, water, and soil pollution Addressing the declining labor force population Improvement in health and welfare Automotive Equipment  evelopment and dissemination of innovative infrastructure D Development of safe, secure, comfortable and sustainable cities Group Proper management of chemical substances Addressing climate change A ppropriate use of water Semiconductor & Device Proper management of chemical substances Group Addressing climate change Preservation of biodiversity  ptimal use of energy O Information Systems & Introduction of clean energy Waste reduction and management Network Service Group Sustainable use and development of resources Addressing climate change 11 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social Initiatives that Contribute to Addressing Social Issues Providing Inverters Equipped with All-SiC Power Modules for Use in Rolling Stock Smaller, Lighter Railcar Air Conditioner Units Supporting Effective Utilization of the Regenerative Electricity by Station Energy-Saving Inverter (S-EIV) Reducing Power Consumption and Weight of Diamond Vision™ Understanding Disaster Situations Properly through Helicopter Direct Satellite Communication System and Supporting Swift Rescue Activities Highly Efficient, More Compact Ozone Generator Development of Water Treatment Technology that Uses a Membrane Bioreactor Development of Indirect Hydrogen-Cooled Turbine Generators that Reduce Environmental Impact Development and Dissemination of Switchgear that Reduces Environmental Impact Development of Transformers that Reduce Environmental Impact Power Electronics Systems for Electric Power, Smart Meter Systems, Battery Energy Storage Systems and Smart Mediumand Low-Voltage Direct Current Distribution Network Systems Essential for Smart Grids and Virtual Power Plant (VPP) Systems Reduced Environmental Impact Monitoring and Control System Module-type Automatic Voltage Regulator (AVR) that Reduces Environmental Impact P ursuing Comfort, Universal Design, and Eco-Consciousness in Elevators Pursuing Greater Energy-Savings and Safety in Escalators Supporting Safe and Comfortable Use of Elevators and Escalators with Maintenance Services Further Improving Safety, Comfort, and Functionality Through Elevator and Escalator Renewal Providing Safety and Security with Entrance/Exit Management and Video Surveillance Through Integrated Building Security Systems Supporting Energy Savings and Comfort for Variety of Buildings Through Building Facilities Operations Systems Responding to Diversifying Needs of Building Owners by Offering One-Stop ZEB Solutions C  ontributing to World-Leading Global Environment Observation Contributing to Understanding Disaster Situations and Monitoring Oceans and Forests Contributing to Environmental Conservation and Development of Cities Comfortable to Live in through Various Uses of Highly Precise Positioning Data Contributing to Wider Use of Recycled Energy P romotion of More Energy-Efficient and Compact Optical Access Systems Providing Equipment That Delivers Energy Management Services Promoting the Reduction and Reuse of Communications Cables Promoting the Development of Safe and Secure Cities through Network Cameras T he Agency for Natural Resources and Energy (ANRE) Commissioner's Fiscal 2019 Energy Conservation Grand Prize Presented for Room Air Conditioners, with Package Air Conditioners and Showcases Receiving Honors at the Same Time MILIE LED Lighting – Realizing Reduced Power Consumption and Comfort DIAMONDSOLAR® Photovoltaic System that Makes Full Use of Natural Energy EcoCute that Can Be Used in Conjunction with Photovoltaic Systems Recycling of Home Electrical Appliances  eveloping FA Equipment, Industrial Robots, and Mechatronics Products that Achieve Automation of Customer Production Facilities and Improve D Productivity and Product Quality Providing e-F@ctory Solutions that Help Streamline Manufacturing and Reduce Energy Consumption Developing Instruments that Measure Energy and Control Power Distribution to Help Promote Energy Savings Technological Innovation of Automotive Equipment Products for Autonomous Driving L ow-Power Consumption SiC Power Semiconductor Devices Development of a 25 Gbps EML CAN for 5G Mobile Communications Base Stations Expanding the Lineup of Transflective Series TFT-LCD Modules  sing Internet Data Centers to Help Customers Reduce Environmental Impact U Promoting Initiatives to Realize Smart Communities 12 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social Public Utility Systems Group Message from the Group President Contributing to Creation of a Sustainable, Safe, Secure, Comfortable and Affluent Society by Providing Stable Rail Transportation, as well as Products, Systems and Services that Contribute to Safety, Security and the Prevention and Mitigation of Disasters The Public Utility Systems Group manufactures a host of products, systems and services used in social infrastructure to support people’ s lives. We contribute to sustainable progress in society by developing and supplying products that save energy, as well as help prevent/reduce damages of disasters and treat drinking water and sewage. In terms of efficient use of energy, we are the first company in the world to successfully produce inverters equipped with all-SiC power modules* for use in rolling stock. The power modules are helping to increase energy savings in railway operations, both in Japan and overseas. Additionally, we contribute to advancements in energy-efficient societies by manufacturing equipment and systems that promote the use of photovoltaic power generation systems and the construction of ZEBs. Mitsubishi Electric develops and manufactures products and systems that help to prevent and mitigate natural disasters, which have been on the increase around the world in recent years. For example, by providing meteorological radar technologies and river information systems, we help municipalities supply their residents with information Kei Uruma Senior Vice President, regarding localized heavy rainfall and flooding. Should a disaster occur, our Helicopter Group President, Direct Satellite Communication system ensures that information about the affected areas Public Utility Systems is collected, thus supporting the formulation of precise disaster measures. Under current global circumstances, in which water shortage is an imminent problem in various regions, we are helping to purify water—a limited resource—by providing electrical products, ozone generators and other systems for use in water treatment plants. During the production of our products, we continue to look for ways to further increase energy conservation in all processes of design, manufacturing and testing, as well as reduce the use of chemical substances. Going forward, we will contribute to the realization of a sustainable, safe, secure, comfortable and affluent society by making full use of the wide-ranging technologies that we have developed over the years and continuing our ongoing technological development. *A s part of the project to develop this power module, research activities were outsourced to the New Energy and Industrial Development Organization (NEDO). Social issues for which risks and opportunities have been recognized and evaluated Major issues Focusing on the SDGs ◦Appropriate use of water ◦Optimal use of energy ◦Addressing climate change ◦Measures against air, water, and soil pollution ◦Waste reduction/management Initiatives that Contribute to Addressing Social Issues ▪Providing Inverters Equipped with All-SiC Power Modules for Use in Rolling Stock ▪Smaller, Lighter Railcar Air Conditioner Units ▪Supporting effective utilization of the regenerative electricity by Station Energy-Saving Inverter (S-EIV) ▪Reducing Power Consumption and Weight of Diamond Vision™ ▪Understanding Disaster Situations Properly through Helicopter Direct Satellite Communication System and Supporting Swift Rescue Activities ▪Highly Efficient, More Compact Ozone Generator ▪Development of Water Treatment Technology that Uses a Membrane Bioreactor 13 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social Energy & Industrial Systems Group Message from the Group President Contributing to the Realization of a Safe, Secure, and Comfortable Sustainable Society by Developing High-performance Equipment and Next-generation Power Systems That Are Environmentally Friendly and Capable of Coping with Disasters, Artificial Threats and Changes in the Electric Utility Market As a provider of a full range of equipment and systems that support power systems from power generation and conversion to transmission and distribution, the Energy & Industrial Systems Group recognizes that achieving a sustainable society is a global issue today. Based on this, we are developing high-performance equipment with the aim of eliminating or reducing the use of SF6 gas, which has high global-warming potential. These products include high-efficiency power generators, switchgear, and transformers. We are also pushing forward with the development of monitoring and control systems, smart meter systems, and battery energy storage systems that contribute to the realization of high-quality power distribution systems with economy and reliability. Furthermore, we are working to optimize energy use by utilizing ICT* to realize interconnectivity and to contribute to the realization of a resilient energy infrastructure that operates seamlessly, even at times of emergency. Moving forward, we are also working on the development of power stabilizing equipment and systems capable of responding to new demand. This includes promoting Koichi Orito Executive Officer, expansion of the nuclear power generation business based on the energy policies of each Group President, country, supply and demand management with the growing use of renewable energy, Energy & Industrial Systems integrated management including demand control of distributed energy sources, and supply and demand management by interconnecting electric-power utility companies. In terms of reducing the impact of our business on the environment, we will contribute to the creation of a safe, secure, and comfortable sustainable society through ongoing initiatives to reduce the energy used in our production and testing processes, and to ensure the strict management of chemical substances. * ICT: Information and Communication Technology Social issues for which risks and opportunities have been recognized and evaluated Major issues Focusing on the SDGs ◦Optimal use of energy ◦Introduction of clean energy ◦Sustainable use and development of resources ◦Proper management of chemical substances ◦Addressing climate change ◦Measures against air, water, and soil pollution Initiatives that Contribute to Addressing Social Issues ▪Development of Indirect Hydrogen-Cooled Turbine Generators that Reduce Environmental Impact ▪Development and Dissemination of Switchgear that Reduces Environmental Impact ▪Development of Transformers that Reduce Environmental Impact ▪Power Electronics Systems for Electric Power, Smart Meter Systems, Battery Energy Storage Systems and Smart Mediumand Low-Voltage Direct Current Distribution Network Systems Essential for Smart Grids and Virtual Power Plant (VPP) Systems ▪Reduced Environmental Impact Monitoring and Control System ▪Module-type Automatic Voltage Regulator (AVR) that Reduces Environmental Impact 14 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social Building Systems Group Message from the Group President Making the Most of the Mitsubishi Electric Group’ s Advanced and Environmental Technologies to Provide Solutions that Satisfy Customers in All Aspects of Safety, Comfort, Efficiency and the Environment The Building Systems Group manufactures building management systems and elevators and escalators that provide vertical transportation within buildings. As part of our mission to deliver products and systems and the subsequent maintenance thereof, we believe it is important to give priority to the safety and security of our customers throughout the product lifecycle. In doing so, we help to create a comfortable, environment-friendly society through our products and services. Maintaining this promise, the Building Systems Group is focused on the following initiatives: 1. Pursuing user-friendly, eco-conscious products (1) P romoting the development of high-efficiency, energy-saving products and technologies, and saving resources by designing products and systems that are safe and easy to use for everybody. (2) Promoting the renewal of existing equipment and facilities in order to reduce power consumption and improve safety and convenience, and minimizing waste emissions Yasuyuki Ito by reusing parts whenever possible. Senior Vice President, (3) Working to reduce the energy consumed during production and testing processes, Group President, and regulating the management of chemical substances on a consistent basis at Building Systems manufacturing bases in Japan and overseas. 2. Offering one-stop ZEB*1 solutions As a ZEB planner*2 registered ahead of other comprehensive electrical machinery manufacturers, Mitsubishi Electric offers one-stop solutions, from support for the design of ZEBs to services that contribute to customers’energy-saving efforts after the start of operations. We also support initiatives to improve the added value of buildings beyond a higher level of energy efficiency. *1 Z EB (net Zero Energy Building): A building where the net consumption of fossil fuel energy is zero or roughly zero, offset by energy savings and the utilization of renewable energy resources. *2 Z EB planner: A registration system introduced by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry in 2017 for the dissemination of ZEB. Social issues for which risks and opportunities have been recognized and evaluated Major issues Focusing on the SDGs ◦Optimal use of energy ◦Development and dissemination of innovative infrastructure ◦Development of safe, secure, comfortable and sustainable cities ◦Waste reduction Initiatives that Contribute to Addressing Social Issues ▪Pursuing Comfort, Universal Design, and Eco-Consciousness in Elevators ▪Pursuing Greater Energy-Savings and Safety in Escalators ▪Supporting Safe and Comfortable Use of Elevators and Escalators with Maintenance Services ▪Further Improving Safety, Comfort, and Functionality Through Elevator and Escalator Renewal ▪Providing Safety and Security with Entrance/Exit Management and Video Surveillance Through Integrated Building Security Systems ▪Supporting Energy Savings and Comfort for Variety of Buildings Through Building Facilities Operations Systems ▪Responding to Diversifying Needs of Building Owners by Offering One-Stop ZEB Solutions 15 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social Electronic Systems Group Message from the Group President Working to Solve Environmental Problems and Develop Products for Next-Generation Energy Solutions The products of the Electronic Systems Group play a vital role in solving humankind's shared environmental problems. This is achieved by further disseminating the use of renewable energies and contributing to the creation of cities that are more comfortable to live in. For example, we were the primary contractor for manufacturing the IBUKI (GOSAT) and IBUKI-2 (GOSAT-2), which are designed to observe the concentration and distribution of greenhouse gases and monitor the emission and absorption of these gases, thereby assisting in the prevention of global warming. The DAICHI-2 Advanced Land Observing Satellite (ALOS-2) contributes to safeguarding people's lives and solving globalscale environmental problems. Additionally, the geostationary meteorological satellites Himawari-8 and Himawari-9 provide even greater observation capabilities for monitoring global warming and weather phenomena. We are also researching space-based solar power generation, a method of generating electricity from sunlight in outer space and sending the electricity back to Earth via radio waves for a stable supply of electricity 24 Yoshihisa Hara Executive Officer, hours a day. Furthermore, the Michibiki Quasi-Zenith Satellite System (QZSS) composed of Group President, four satellites enables positioning information and communications even in built-up urban Electronic Systems areas and mountainous regions. By reinforcing GPS, it helps improve positioning accuracy. Applications for various solutions including autonomous driving are expected. Meanwhile, one of our ground-based solutions is Doppler Lidar, which can remotely measure the moving speed of dust and particulates in the atmosphere. Doppler Lidar is expected to contribute to optimal control of wind farms, thus leading to more efficient power generation and extended service life of wind turbines. We are also working to reduce CO2 emissions from the production of these products and enhance the efficiency of energy utilization. More specifically, most precision electronic devices are manufactured in cleanrooms and require the use of testing equipment. As such, we are introducing initiatives to improve the operation of air conditioning and testing equipment so that energy is used more efficiently. Social issues for which risks and opportunities have been recognized and evaluated Major issues Focusing on the SDGs ◦Optimal use of energy ◦Introduction of clean energy ◦Creating secure, safe and comfortable sustainable cities ◦Addressing climate change ◦Prevention of deforestation Initiatives that Contribute to Addressing Social Issues ▪Contributing to World-Leading Global Environment Observation ▪Contributing to Understanding Disaster Situations and Observing Oceans and Forests ▪Contributing to Environmental Conservation and Development of Cities Comfortable to Live in through Various Uses of Highly Precise Positioning Data ▪Contributing to Wider Use of Recycled Energy 16 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social Communication Systems Group Message from the Group President Contributing to Solving Social Issues through High Value-Added Systems by Developing Communications and Network Camera Markets and Reducing Environmental Impact Telecommunication network systems that incorporate optical and wireless communication technologies and network camera systems that utilize imaging technologies such as video content analysis are now key elements of the social infrastructure that is essential to our daily lives and the growth of industry. These products also contribute to solving various social issues. The Communication Systems Group is continuously refining its optical and wireless communication and imaging technologies, and utilizing artificial intelligence and other such technologies to deliver high value-added systems to customers. Our aim is to contribute to solving social issues from the following two approaches: 1. Providing products that lead to solutions for environmental problems (1) W e are working on energy efficient designs for optical access systems used in communications infrastructure equipment and communications gateways (relays) for service providers. We will also contribute to reducing environmental impact during installation by offering network cameras that enable the reduction and reuse of Takashi Nishimura communications cables. Executive Officer, (2) We will contribute to the visualization of electricity by providing optical and wireless Group President, access systems used in automated meter readers for smart meters, as well as Communication Systems communications gateway equipment used in HEMS.* Going forward, we will propose the introduction of Mitsubishi Electric’s network equipment to the field of IoT in support of improving production efficiency and reducing energy consumption at factories. 2. Promoting the development of safe and secure cities through network cameras  gainst the backdrop of recent social developments, there is a rapid increase in the A call for crime prevention through the detection of suspicious objects, as well as the prevention of natural disasters. Under these circumstances, we will contribute to the safety of cities where people can live with peace of mind, doing so by proposing network cameras and solutions that take full advantage of technologies such as video content analysis. * HEMS: Home Energy Management System Social issues for which risks and opportunities have been recognized and evaluated Major issues Focusing on the SDGs ◦Sustainable use and development of resources ◦Waste reduction and management ◦Addressing climate change Initiatives that Contribute to Addressing Social Issues ▪Promotion of More Energy-Efficient and Compact Optical Access Systems ▪Providing Equipment That Delivers Energy Management Services ▪Promoting the Reduction and Reuse of Communications Cables ▪Promoting the Development of Safe and Secure Cities through Network Cameras 17 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social Living Environment & Digital Media Equipment Group Message from the Group President Providing Products that are Helpful for Society and the Environment in Wide Areas through Creating Comfortable Living Spaces and Reducing Environmental Impact during Production The Living Environment & Digital Media Equipment Group focuses on the air-conditioning and refrigeration systems business, one of the growth-driving sectors at Mitsubishi Electric. In addition to expanding operations in the room and package air-conditioner segment, we are pressing forward with the creation of new business and strengthening existing ones through synergies in technologies and business operations. As we expand business, we believe it is important to provide products and services that contribute simultaneously to achieving sustainability, safety, security, and comfort. Part of this includes supplying a broad range of environment-friendly products and services for the home, office, and industry. These include air conditioners that produce less CO2 during use and our energy-saving EcoCute product lineup. We also offer photovoltaic systems that generate renewable energy and do not produce CO2 during power generation. Additionally, Mitsubishi Electric proposes solutions that aim to achieve energy savings by systems as a whole in support of programs such as ZEH and ZEB, promoted by the Japanese government. Tadashi Matsumoto Executive Officer, Meanwhile, as activities to reduce CO2 from production, the Living Environment & Group President, Digital Media Equipment Group is proactively introducing energy-saving products at Living Environment & Digital production sites; namely, high-efficiency air-conditioners, heat-pump hot-water supply Media Equipment systems, LED lighting, and photovoltaic systems. We are also promoting energy-saving activities by improving productivity linked to just-in-time improvement activities based on e-F@ctory concepts. Social issues for which risks and opportunities have been recognized and evaluated Major issues Focusing on the SDGs ◦Optimal use of energy ◦Introduction of clean energy ◦Development of safe, secure, comfortable and sustainable cities ◦Sustainable use and development of resources ◦Proper management of chemical substances ◦Addressing climate change Initiatives that Contribute to Addressing Social Issues ▪The Agency for Natural Resources and Energy (ANRE) Commissioner's Fiscal 2019 Energy Conservation Grand Prize Presented for Room Air Conditioners, with Package Air Conditioners and Showcases Receiving Honors at the Same Time ▪MILIE LED Lighting – Realizing Reduced Power Consumption and Comfort ▪DIAMONDSOLAR® Photovoltaic System that Makes Full Use of Natural Energy ▪EcoCute that Can Be Used in Conjunction with Photovoltaic Systems ▪Recycling of Home Electrical Appliances 18 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social Factory Automation Systems Group Message from the Group President Delivering Devices, Equipment, and Solutions that Help Reduce Energy Usage in Our Customers’Manufacturing Processes Around the World Devices and equipment used in industrial mechatronics are essential to adding value and enhancing the competitiveness of business through quality and productivity improvements for customers in the manufacturing industry. Mitsubishi Electric's Factory Automation Systems Group provides devices and systems possessing high energy-saving capabilities that are ideal for production facilities in factories, where the bulk of energy is consumed. By optimizing the utilization of FA technologies cultivated by Mitsubishi Electric and cooperative technologies that connect FA and IT, we help customers reduce the total cost of development, production and maintenance, and continuously support their improvement activities. We are committed to proposing manufacturing solutions that keep our customers one step ahead of the competition, and strongly support manufacturing and management optimization. In addition, we verify productivity and facility utilization ratios through the operation of an e-F@ctory model plant at our Nagoya Works. In the factory, a large number of activities have indicated the benefits of reducing CO2 from production, including improved Yoshikazu Miyata Executive Officer, productivity, shorter lead times, and less product quality loss. Group President, We will continue to contribute to improving the efficiency of our customers' Factory Automation Systems manufacturing activities and reducing energy consumption by providing highly energy efficient FA products and cutting-edge e-F@ctory solutions that integrate them. Social issues for which risks and opportunities have been recognized and evaluated Major issues Focusing on the SDGs ◦Sustainable use and development of resources ◦Proper management of chemical substances ◦Addressing climate change ◦Measures against air, water, and soil pollution ◦Addressing the declining labor force population Initiatives that Contribute to Addressing Social Issues ▪Developing FA Equipment, Industrial Robots, and Mechatronics Products that Achieve Automation of Customer Production Facilities and Improve Productivity and Product Quality ▪Providing e-F@ctory Solutions that Help Streamline Manufacturing and Reduce Energy Consumption ▪Developing Instruments that Measure Energy and Control Power Distribution to Help Promote Energy Savings 19 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social Automotive Equipment Group Message from the Group President Aiming to Achieve the SDGs through Development of Technologies that Contribute to Low Fuel Consumption and Electrification of Vehicles Energy and environmental issues are borderless social problems for which solutions are essential in order to realize sustainability. The Automotive Equipment Group is engaged in initiatives to reduce CO2 emissions both by installing its products in vehicles to achieve better fuel efficiency and electrification, and reducing energy consumption during manufacturing processes. Engines have to be more efficient in order to achieve low fuel consumption. Mitsubishi Electric is helping realize this by improving related products, such as ignition systems for the precise control of combustion in high compression ratio engines, turbo actuators that control the boost pressure of downsized turbo charged engines, and various components for controlling these systems. As an example of saving energy during the manufacturing processes, a new production building has introduced LED lighting and cutting-edge energy-saving technologies such as automatic light adjustment and centralized monitoring and optimized control of airconditioning and ventilation equipment. In addition, we are managing the use of electricity Hiroshi Onishi Executive Officer, by rigorously enforcing energy-saving measures such as the introduction of photovoltaic Group President, generation. These achievements are being implemented at overseas manufacturing bases Automotive Equipment as part of our global energy-saving efforts. Furthermore, traffic accidents caused by elderly drivers have been becoming a social issue in recent years in Japan as the population ages. Solving this problem is an urgent task. The Mitsubishi Electric Group aims to realize a high-precision autonomous driving system by combining self-sensing driving technologies and network-based driving technologies that the Group owns. Social issues for which risks and opportunities have been recognized and evaluated Major issues Focusing on the SDGs ◦Improvement in health and welfare ◦Development and dissemination of innovative infrastructure ◦Development of safe, secure, comfortable and sustainable cities ◦Proper management of chemical substances ◦Addressing climate change Initiatives that Contribute to Addressing Social Issues ▪Technological Innovation of Automotive Equipment Products for Autonomous Driving 20 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social Semiconductor & Device Group Message from the Group President Contributing to the Realization of a Low-Carbon Society by Providing Energy-Efficient Products In order to achieve sustainable societies, it is imperative to use generated power while minimizing power loss in the process. Power semiconductor devices are incorporated into a number of power electronics, playing a significant role in reducing power loss. In addition, Mitsubishi Electric manufactures state-of-the-art products using silicon carbide (SiC) as a means of helping to create low-carbon societies. The Semiconductor & Device Group provides high-performance, high-efficiency, compact high-frequency devices and optical devices for wireless communications equipment and optical fiber communications that make full use of multiple semiconductor technologies. Furthermore, by reducing the space required for communications equipment, the cooling function can be simplified, thereby contributing to comprehensive energy savings. Industrial-use TFT color LCD modules provide a mercury-free, low-power consumption option owing to the white LED backlight used in them. We have an extensive lineup of LCD modules that are used in measuring equipment, construction and agricultural Masamitsu Okamura Executive Officer, machinery, machine tools, and POS terminals. Group President, In addition to providing these products, the Semiconductor & Device Group is working Semiconductor & Device to reduce negative environmental impact during production. We are continuously and proactively reducing energy use through measures such as installing high-efficiency air conditioners in cleanrooms where high levels of cleanliness require a large amount of energy, improving wafer processing operations, and reducing the emissions of non-CO2 greenhouse gases (SF6, HFC, and PFC) through the introduction of detoxifying equipment. Social issues for which risks and opportunities have been recognized and evaluated Major issues Focusing on the SDGs ◦Appropriate use of water ◦Proper management of chemical substances ◦Addressing climate change ◦Preservation of biodiversity Initiatives that Contribute to Addressing Social Issues ▪Low-Power Consumption SiC Power Semiconductor Devices ▪Development of a 25 Gbps EML CAN for 5G Mobile Communications Base Stations ▪Expanding the Lineup of Transflective Series TFT-LCD Modules 21 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social Information Systems & Network Service Group Message from the Group President Contributing to the Realization of a Low-Carbon Society Through the Promotion of Various IT Services The Information Systems & Network Service Group is committed to enhancing customer satisfaction, helping achieve sustainable societies through solutions tailored to the management strategies and challenges of its customers, and developing solutions that contribute to solving social issues. In recent years, we have been focusing on environmentally effective businesses, seeking to reduce environmental impact through the use of IT. Specifically, we are supporting workstyle reform and aggressively expanding our products and services that reduce environmental impact, such as those that curb power consumption through server integration and consolidation, reduce the need for business travel with video/ web-conferencing systems, and promote paperless work environments through ledger computerization. Efforts for saving energy in data centers also help companies to reduce CO2 emissions from their business activities. Going forward, in order to achieve smarter societies, we will leverage the many component technologies and strengths of the Mitsubishi Electric Group to build nextYutaka Ohashi Representative Executive generation information systems using the latest IT solutions, such as IoT,*1 big data Officer, processing, and energy management systems, such as HEMS*2 and FEMS.*3 Executive Vice President, *1 Internet of Things: A system to remotely control, operate, monitor, and collect information from various Group President, things connected via the Internet. Information Systems & *2 HEMS: Home Energy Management System Network Service *3 FEMS: Factory Energy Management System Social issues for which risks and opportunities have been recognized and evaluated Major issues Focusing on the SDGs ◦Optimal use of energy ◦Introduction of clean energy ◦Waste reduction and management ◦Sustainable use and development of resources ◦Addressing climate change Initiatives that Contribute to Addressing Social Issues ▪Using Internet Data Centers to Help Customers Reduce Environmental Impact ▪Promoting Initiatives to Realize Smart Communities 22 About President's CSR at Environmental issues including climat Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment resource Social and energy issues are globa Mitsubishi Electric Group will contribu these issues with the aim of realizing society. Initiatives Related to the Value Chain The Mitsubishi Electric Group is engaged in a wide range of businesses, ranging from familiar home appliances to satellites and projects on a national scale. Our operations of these businesses affect society and our value chain is also expanding. Recognizing these circumstances, the Mitsubishi Electric Group promotes CSR initiatives across the entire value chain with a focus on CSR materiality. Sharing its way of thinking about In addition to thoroughly strengthening procurement, the Group promotes businesses and promoting development CSR initiatives along the supply for innovation, the Group is striving to chain. create greater value and engage in the development of future technologies. Reduce C Contributing to realizing a low-carbon society Ensure safety thro risk assessment Make Group-wide efforts to investigate the c that have occurred in the past, and imp 23 e change and About President's CSR at l issues. The Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social te to solving a sustainable The Group is engaging in manufacThe Group is striving to reduce the Through products and services, the turing that lowers environmental amount of packaging materials Group contributes to the realization burden and that takes into used and to emit less CO2 in of a sustainable society and consideration safety and quality. transporting products. provision of safety, security and comfort. O2 emissions from production Reduce resource inputs Contributing to creating Contributing to realizing a recycling society a symbiotic society Recycling Provide products and services that contribute Maintain the reduction to Goal 7, “Affordable and clean energy,” of CO2 during and Goal 13, Climate action, of the SDGs product usage ugh ause of serious malfunctions lement countermeasures Develop key persons who are capable of incorporating customers' needs into quality Provide products and services that contribute to Goal 11, “Sustainable cities and communities,” of the SDGs 24 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social CSR Materiality CSR Materiality Realize a Sustainable Society The Mitsubishi Electric Group, which aims to realize a sustainable society, has set out achieving a recycling-oriented society as one of its priority initiatives in an eﬀort to solve environmental issues. The Group promotes the 3Rs ; reduce, reuse, and recycle, and engages in recycling of plastic in used home appliances as a business. Plastic collected from post-use products from across Japan in one year ■ Breakdown of post-use products for mechanical recycling (1,370kt) PET bottles 50 Unlike natural organic matter, ocean plastic waste remains in the ocean Wrapping film 23 without decomposing. As can be seen by ocean plastic receiving attention Home electric-appliance, housings, etc. 18 Agricultural plastics 8 as a major cause of marine pollution, issues surrounding waste plastic have Expanded polystyrene packing material, etc. 7 globally become more serious. Even when it is recycled, most plastic is Electric-wire covering material 7 Of all the home electric-appliances Containers and the like that were disposed of, 65%*1 are downgraded to fuel or daily goods in many cases. Therefore, the value of Automobile parts 4 5 said to be from four kinds of electric household appliances*2. used plastic as a material needs to be improved so as to use it at a higher Pipes, etc. 2 *1: Weight ratio level. In Japan, 1.37 million tons of plastic is collected from used products Expanded polystyrene trays 1 *2: Refrigerators, TVs, air conditioners, and washing machines Non-PET bottles 1 annually (results for ﬁscal 2019). Of this, 180,000 tons is plastic collected Others 13 from home electric-appliances , housings, etc., accounting for a large 0 5 10 Source: Plastic Waste Management Institute 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50 (thousand tons) percentage.* * Source: Plastic Waste Management Institute The State of Production, Disposal, Recycling, and Disposition of Plastic Products Since 1999, which was before the enforcement of the Home Appliance Recycling Law in Japan in 2001, the Mitsubishi Electric Group has been operating the industryʼs ﬁrst home appliance recycling plant to promote the recycling business. Since 2010, the Group has been fully implementing closed-loop recycling, in which plastic collected from used home appliances is reused in Mitsubishi Electricʼs new home appliance products. In this recycling system, it is important to collect as much plastic without foreign matter as possible from products composed of diverse materials. Hyper Cycle Systems (HCS), a home appliance recycling plant, and Green Cycle Systems (GCS), a plant which sorts plastic, play the main role in this initiative. HCS ﬁrst disassembles used home appliances and then crushes them with machines. The crushed home appliances are then sent to GCS, which sorts and collects plastic. Through collaboration between HCS, GCS, and Mitsubishi Electricʼs plants and laboratories to reclaim plastic used in home appliances at a level of quality equal to virgin materials and which can be utilized again for new home appliances, the Mitsubishi Electric Group continues to endeavor to further improve its closed-loop recycling system. HCS receives nearly 800,000 units of home appliances, etc. annually. Disassembly work starts from components that are easily removable from the home appliance manually. As each product has a diﬀerent speciﬁcation, workers use the know-how they have accumulated to separate large components, such as motors and compressors, and toxic substances, such as CFCs and mercury, one by one. Large sections of products that cannot be disassembled manually are crushed using a grinder, and then metals, such as iron, copper, and aluminum, are isolated and recovered using magnetic forces etc. The remaining plastic after recovering metals is called mixed plastic as it is not composed of a single material and has various foreign matter in it. Because mixed plastic is useless in Japan, much of it has been exported. The Mitsubishi Electric Group focused on the value of this mixed plastic. It is ﬁnely crushed to a manageable size using HCSʼs unique ﬁne crushing technology so that it can easily be handled in the sophisticated sorting process, and is then sent to GCS which is responsible for the post-process in which material for reclaimed plastic is processed. The vegetable containers and door pockets in a refrigerator are typical examples of simple plastic which is easily recyclable and HCS sends these through the recycling process. 25 00 三菱電機グループ CSR レポート 2019 ハイライト About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social The mission of GCS is to remove foreign matters from procured locations as material used in distribution or as construction material mixed plastic, sort and recover mixed plastic by type, and produce in Japan which requires high quality (ﬁscal 2019 results). high-purity plastic that can be put into the Mitsubishi Electric Groupʼs closed-loop recycling system at low cost. GCS has been developing Amount of plastic processed by GCS Plastic technologies required for pursuing this mission one after another in Accumulated total amount of plastic collaboration with Mitsubishi Electricʼs laboratories. The Mitsubishi Processed weight Accumulated total processed amount: Accumulated total weight Electric Group was the ﬁrst in Japan to successfully put high-purity (tons per year) 100,000 tons as of March 19, 2018 (tons per year) sorting of polypropylene (PP), polystyrene (PS), and 16,000 100,000 Weight of plastic processed acrylonitrile-butadiene-styrene (ABS), the three main types of plastic in fiscal 2019: 14,700 tons 12,000 75,000 used in home appliances, into practical use. GCS has so far processed an accumulated total of 100,000 tons of mixed plastic. 8,000 50,000 Today, almost 80% of procured mixed plastic is put into material recycling as high-purity plastic with the same level of quality as 4,000 25,000 virgin material. Of this 30% is used for home appliances manufactured by Mitsubishi Electric, realizing closed-loop recycling. 0 0 The remaining 70% of reclaimed plastic is also utilized at various 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Hyper Cycle Systems Home appliances Manual To be used disassembly Plastic products from Crusher which the same materials can easily as materials be collected by manual disassembly for home appliances Refrigerator components Air conditioner fans Flakes Items that require Green Cycle Systems more complex sorting are sent to: VOICE (Recycling business supervisor) When we ﬁrst started the business, the material recycling rate of plastic was around 55%. Because improving the recovery rate while maintaining high-purity in reclaimed plastic is diﬃcult, the Group united to review all kinds of processes and make steady improvement eﬀorts and ﬁnally achieved the current recycling rate of 80%. GCSʼs ultimate goal is to improve the value of material, put as much reclaimed material as possible into Mitsubishi Electricʼs new home appliances to be manufactured, thereby increasing the rate of closed-loop recycling, while reducing the cost of its home appliance products at the same time. In collaboration with Mitsubishi Electricʼs plants and laboratories, we will continue to expand the scale of Nobuyuki Tsuboi closed-loop recycling. Replacing virgin material with recycled material is not easy as it requires changes President Green Cycle Systems Corporation of product design and so on. I believe that the Mitsubishi Electric Group was able to steadily undertake the transfer to making more use of recycled materials because of its clear policy which reﬂects how seriously the Group considers environmental issues. 26 三菱電機グループ CSR レポート 2019 ハイライト 00 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social CSR Materiality CSR Materiality Provide Safety, Security, and Comfort The Mitsubishi Electric Group is working to develop artiﬁcial intelligence (AI) technology and to provide solutions that take advantage of AI technology. With Mitsubishi Electricʼs AI technology Maisart, the Group will provide safety, security, and comfort in city life and to the lives of people. In todayʼs cities, many people gather from around the world and come and go rapidly as a result of globalization. Concentration Changes in world urban population of people in cities will continue to advance and it is predicted that traﬃc jams and congestion of public facilities will become even more serious. While the number of people who need support for moving around, such as the elderly, those who use strollers or wheelchairs, and foreign travelers will increase, the shortage of labor able to support such people will increase because of a decrease in labor force. Mitsubishi Electric is According to the United Nations’ world urbanization prospects announced in striving to develop solutions using AI technology so that people 2018, as of 2018, 55% of the global population lives in urban areas. The urban population, which was 30% in 1950, is forecast to reach 68% in 2050. can move around cities smoothly and enjoy active lives. <Reference Data> The UN World Population Prospects: Urban population to reach 68% in 2050 Wheelchair Suitcase left unattended Stroller Person standing still The kizkia video analysis solution detects attributes of Using kizkia makes it possible to support, for example, persons or things and automatically recognizes their persons in wheelchairs or those with guide dogs by detecting movements, conditions and situations by analyzing security and anticipating their movements or to protect persons who camera footage in real-time. It gives notice of irregular are sitting for long hours or promptly notice people walking situations which may require staﬀ intervention but would unsteadily. It can also prevent crimes or accidents by otherwise been overlooked by human observers. The detecting suspicious persons or others entering dangerous technology was developed by Mitsubishi Electric Information areas. Systems Corporation, which had been working on the Since it is expected that comings and goings in cities will development by leveraging Mitsubishi Electricʼs proprietary AI continue to increase, Mitsubishi Electric will accelerate technology in an attempt to strengthen its monitoring camera cooperation with facility operators, aiming to practically use technology that it has developed through experience. the technology for public transportation and facilities. 00 三菱電機グループ CSR レポート 2019 ハイライト 27 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social As a result of advances in the IoT, where everything around us is connected to the Internet, we can now collect lots of data from devices. As a result, AI, which is good at handling data, has been put to more practical use. On the other hand, AI generally needs to process a large amount of data on the server and learn from it, which is very costly and requires large-scale servers and network equipment. As such, AI that can be installed on devices is needed. In response to this issue, Mitsubishi Electric has developed a compact artiﬁcial intelligence that can easily be installed on embedded devices, such as on-board devices and FA devices, by reducing computation Mitsubishi Electric's proprietary AI technology power used in Deep Learning. Taking advantage of its position as includes its compact AI. Under the corporate comprehensive electrical and electronics manufacturer producing many axiom Original AI technology makes everything smart, Mitsubishi Electric is leveraging original AI devices, Mitsubishi Electric will contribute to providing society with more technology and edge computing to make all safety, security, and comfort by applying this AI technology to devices products smarter and life more secure, intuitive and convenient. and edge computing to create greater value. Maisart is an abbreviation for Mitsubishi Electric's AI creates the State-of-the-ART in technology. Wheelchair Function: Attribute: Detection of Detects persons’ A person with a stroller or Stroller another in a wheelchair persons’ attributes attributes which are among the people coming previously learned and going Function: Attribute: Detection of things Detects things that have An abandoned thing that been left unattended at wasn’t there a left unattended the same spot for a minute ago certain period of time Function: Attribute: Detection of persons Analyzes movement Unsteady and awkward flow lines to detect walking that appears walking unsteadily persons walking different from other unsteadily persons walking normally VOICE (In charge of kizkia sales) Enabling high accuracy learning to diﬀerentiate a person with a stick from another person with an umbrella, or a person pushing a wheelchair from another person pushing a shopping cart requires various improvements. In an environment where many people come and go, detection accuracy may be reduced, for example, AI may detect unexpected movement, conditions, and situations of persons or things. In order to apply video analysis to our business, we have been creating practical AI through repeated trial and error in many demonstration experiments and introductions to the real environments, tuning according to the environmental condition, and accumulating our unique know-how for eﬀective learning and improved detection accuracy. On the other hand, video analysis using monitoring cameras is one of the tools to protect the safety and security of public facilities. Hironori Suzuki Considering appropriate operations in terms of how and to whom should detected persons or things be Deputy Manager reported, how they should be dealt with, and so on is also very important. Accordingly, we are working to have Marketing Section Ａ close discussions with facility operators and make proposals that include details on the ﬂow of operations Marketing Department Ｂ through conducting demonstration experiments, and so on. Industry and Service Systems Division Ｂ Industry and Service Systems Group Though kizkia is currently used based on video analysis, the potential of AIʼs detection technology will Mitsubishi Electric expand to various ﬁelds such as sensors for sound and smell data. In the mediumto long-term, we will skillfully Information Systems Corporation combine these areas to enable more sophisticated support and thereby contributing to providing safety and security. 28 三菱電機グループ CSR レポート 2019 ハイライト 00 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social CSR Materiality CSR Materiality RespectHuman Respect HumanRights Rights andand Promote Promote the Active the ActiveParticipation Participation of Diverse of Diverse Human Human Resources Resources The Mitsubishi Electric Group respects the human rights of all peoples in countries and regions where it engages in business, based on a conscious awareness of its widespread interaction with people and society. It is also promoting Work Style Reforms so that a diverse range of human resources can play an active role. Message from Management The Mitsubishi Electric Group established Policies on Respect for Human Rights in September 2017 and declared its commitment to ensure human rights responses that match international norms. In particular, we are striving to implement measures to prevent and mitigate adverse impacts on human rights. To do so, we are conducting due diligence on human rights in conformance with the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, and creating a corrective mechanism in the event it comes to light that a companyʼs action or involvement has inﬂicted an adverse impact on human rights. Human rights issues widely pertain to workers, customers, local communities and all other aspects of society, and the scope of the issues extends globally and through all supply chains. Thus, all employees need to participate in addressing them, with cooperation among all departments. Toward this end, we are working to realize a further change in employee awareness and taking measures to create a culture that respects human rights, so that each employee can recognize human rights issues as their own and take appropriate action. In ﬁscal 2019, employees were educated on the importance of Mitsuharu Kiwada human rights and suitable mindsets through our various human rights training (including e-learning) programs and activities such as the Mitsubishi Electric Going Up Seminar, the Senior General Manager Corporate Administration Division aim of which is to realize an inclusive society*. Mitsubishi Electric Corporation We are also actively promoting Work Style Reforms to create a work environment that allows everyone to strike a balance between their work and private lives. * Inclusive society: A society where everyone respects and accepts each other Progress of Human Rights Due Diligence and Materiality Result of activities in ﬁscal 2019 Approaches for ﬁscal 2020 １. Human rights impact assessment １. Implement human rights risk reduction measures Mitsubishi Electric assessed and evaluated the impact on within the Mitsubishi Electric Group human rights related to the Groupʼs corporate activities To ensure that the risks highlighted in the ﬁscal 2019 for a total of 336 sites, including the internal Mitsubishi human rights impact assessment do not lead to Electric oﬃces, domestic aﬃliated companies, and problems, we are continuing to reinforce our eﬀorts overseas aﬃliated companies. through human rights education, etc. We also checked whether the Technical Intern Training Program has been implemented, and whether it is operating according to the law. 2. Human rights eﬀorts in supply chain Ensure that measures that started in ﬁscal 2019 to 2. Eﬀorts regarding human rights in the supply chain consider social issues, such as human rights, in Based on the CSR Procurement Guidelines formulated in agreements concluded with suppliers, will continue. In June 2018, the procurement divisions have begun addition, we will continue to promote eﬀorts to fully ensuring that when dealing with transaction partners, understand human rights violation risks by suppliers. agreements are reached with regard to social issues, including human rights. 3. Consider upgrading the system for handling grievances 3. Human rights education The Mitsubishi Electric Group has multiple inquiry We provided an e-learning program to 71,588 employees channels that serve as a system for listening to various of Mitsubishi Electric and domestic aﬃliated companies. grievances and questions related to human rights. We In addition to the human rights impact assessment, we aim to raise the performance of these channels to meet conducted human rights education for employees international standards. involved in CSR at Mitsubishi Electric oﬃces and at domestic aﬃliated companies. 29 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social Human Rights Management https://www.MitsubishiElectric.com/en/sustainability/csr/social/humanrights/management/index.html Maintaining a Favorable Working Environment https://www.MitsubishiElectric.com/en/sustainability/csr/social/labor/environment/index.html Supply Chain Management https://www.MitsubishiElectric.com/en/sustainability/csr/social/supplychain/index.html Creating a Working Environment where Work-Life Balance can be Achieved by Everyone through Work Style Reforms Since ﬁscal 2017, Mitsubishi Electric promotes a Work Style and reforming employees' attitudes toward work. In these Reforms as a management policy, and strives to create a Work Style Reforms, each department, organization and oﬃce working environment where work-life balance can be implements speciﬁc measures based on the following four achieved by everyone by creating a corporate culture that perspectives. places even greater emphasis on achievements and eﬃciency Four perspectives on Work Style Reforms Improvement of productivity by streamlining operations Further pursuit of achievements and efficiency ・Thorough elimination of waste based on the principles of JIT ・Establishment of an awareness to produce results within a limited Kaizen activities (reduction of conferences, documents and travel amount of time time, review of operational processes, etc.) ・Development of a scheme to evaluate productivity and efficiency, ・Increased utilization of IT for operational efficiency and strengthening the implementation of proper evaluation Work-life fulfillment Promotion of communication in the workplace ・Sharing the awareness that a “fulfilling life” and “rewarding ・Sharing the status of operations in the workplace through daily work” are closely related greetings and communication ・Applying the knowledge and mental/physical health that are ・Promotion of work-load alleviation through mutual cooperation gained through having a fulfilling life to achieving a rewarding between individuals and departments, as well as reviews of work work experience allocation *JIT (Just in Time): Work process improvement activity in which all employees eliminate operational ineﬃciencies to improve the quality of all work processes. Outcomes of the Work Style Reforms Total number of people Three years have passed since the Work Style Reforms began in ﬁscal 2017. Through driving the reforms based on the four perspectives, the percentage of employees who experienced changes in their work style increased and working hours fell sharply. These reforms, therefore, have produced positive outcomes. 2017 2018 2019 （FY） 2016 2017 2018 2019 （FY） Percentage of employees who responded that Changes in the number of employees who they had a good work-life balance worked more than 80 hours of overtime a month （Employee Attitude survey） TOPICS Examples of Work Style Reforms in the Oﬃce President's Forum More and more employees are feeling that their work style To accelerate the promotion of oﬃce Work Style Reforms, has changed. For example, using laptops in meetings is now the President's Forum meeting began in February 2017 as a an everyday sight. We will continue to foster enhancements in president-employee conversation opportunity. The president the corporate culture and environment so that all employees explains to employees the objective and focus of actions can feel the change. Yet Work Style Reforms extends beyond surrounding Work Style just improving operational eﬃciency. To achieve the reform Reforms, which is a key goal of creating a workplace environment in which everyone management policy, and can maintain physical and psychological health and work in accepts a wide range of good spirits, we aim to develop a company where every inputs from employees such single employee is always aware of the value of improving as issues they face in their work and ﬁnds their work fulﬁlling. promoting the reforms and opinions and requests on 1. Developing an IT environment corporate matters. The president will incorporate 2. Simplifying and reducing company-wide documents these inputs to develop more 3. Promoting indirect JIT Kaizen activities eﬀective measures. President's Forum in 2018 30 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social CSR Materiality CSR Materiality StrengthenCorporate Strengthen Corporate Governance Governance and and Complianceon Compliance ona a Continuous Continuous Basis Basis To realize sustained growth and increase corporate value, the Mitsubishi Electric Group works to maintain the ﬂexibility of its operations while promoting management transparency. These endeavors are supported by an eﬃcient corporate governance structure that clearly deﬁnes and reinforces the supervisory functions of management while ensuring that the company is responsive to the expectations of customers, shareholders, and all of its stakeholders. Additionally, the Mitsubishi Electric Group recognizes that not only ethics and legal compliance, but also compliance in the wider sense of the term that includes the perspective of corporate ethics, are the foundation of the Group's continued existence. Based on this understanding, ongoing eﬀorts are being made to strengthen initiatives related to anti-trust laws, the prevention of corrupt practices and supply chain management, as priority action items. Corporate Governance Message from Management In recent years corporate governance in Japan has garnered strong attention, to the point that strengthening and enhancing the eﬃciency of corporate governance has become a priority issue for all companies. Mitsubishi Electric has adopted Three-committee System, with the separation of the management supervisory functions from the execution of business being one of its core principles. Based on this principle, the Chairman, who oversees the management supervisory functions, is separate from the President & CEO, who is head of all Executive Oﬃcers, and neither included among the members of Nomination or Compensation committees. The clear division of supervisory and executive functions allows the Company to ensure eﬀective corporate governance. Additionally, Mitsubishi Electric works to continuously strengthen its corporate governance, as stated in the CSR Materiality. To further enhance the Board of Directorʼs Shinji Harada management supervisory function, venues were established for supplying information to, and exchanging views with, Outside Directors, in FY2016. Such information-sharing and exchanges Executive Oﬃcer continued through FY2019 to provide them with more timely and pertinent information. Mitsubishi Electric Corporation Additionally, in order to further enhance the functioning of the Board of Directors, the Board meetings are reviewed on an annual basis, which was also held again in FY2019. As a result of the Board of Directors review, the Board of Directors was evaluated as making ongoing and eﬀective improvements in response to the results of annual reviews, and achieving even better results every time with respect to sharing timely and appropriate management information with Executive Oﬃcers, which is essential for the Board to properly fulﬁll its business supervisory function. This evaluation in eﬀect endorses the performance of the Board of Directors, but going forward further eﬀorts will be made to improve the performance of the Board of Directors by enhancing the opportunities for exchanging opinions between the supervisory side and executive side and improving the management of the Board of Directors review through conducting individual interviews regarding review results and expanding time for opinion exchange. Mitsubishi Electric will continue to build an even stronger corporate governance framework, to ensure corporate management is soundly supervised by a proper oversight mechanism. General Shareholders’ Meeting Report Appointment Report Decision Making and Execution Supervision Executive Officers Board of Directors Appointment/ President & CEO Chairman Dismissal/ Supervision/ Executive Vice Delegating Nomination Committee Presidents the decision Outside Directors authority for (majority) executing Senior Vice Presidents all operations Audit Committee Directors Outside Directors Executive Officers Report (majority) Compensation Committee Outside Directors Business/Administration (majority) Divisions Corporate Governance Framework Visit to a Plant by Directors 31 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social Corporate Governance https://www.MitsubishiElectric.com/en/investors/management/corp̲governance/index.html Compliance https://www.MitsubishiElectric.com/en/sustainability/csr/governance/compliance/index.html Supply Chain Management https://www.MitsubishiElectric.com/en/sustainability/csr/social/supplychain/index.html View from an Outside Director Mitsubishi Electric engages in a wide variety of businesses on a global scale. In order for the Board of Directors to oversee whether these businesses are executed properly, it is extremely important for information about management to be provided to us directors in a timely and appropriate manner. At the Board of Directors, adequately detailed information is provided for directors to supervise management, and a forum has been set up with the main objective of providing Outside Directors with more information about management, so I feel the information we directors receive is extremely extensive. I also get the sense that the company is actively providing us with opportunities to visit various oﬃces and plants in an eﬀort to directly hear the opinions of workers and to obtain solid business information. The performance of the Board of the Directors is evaluated, and eﬀorts are made to improve it. A review of all members is conducted every year, where all directors can freely share their views about the operations of the Board and about how information is shared, etc. Readjustments are constantly made in response to the results of the review of the Board of Directors, and improvements have been achieved with every review, such that I feel we have become able to discuss various matters more frankly than ever before. As directors, we feel these opportunities are highly beneﬁcial to understand the current state of Mitsubishi Electric's business, and to engage us in discussions. We hope this timely and appropriate provision of management information will continue to be enhanced, so that the management supervisory functions of the Board of Directors may be further strengthened. Mitoji Yabunaka Outside Director Mitsubishi Electric Corporation Continually Strengthening Compliance, Supply Chain Management With the Mitsubishi Electric Group Corporate Ethics and Compliance policy that, among other things, our Group companies, their oﬃcers Statement formulated in 2001 as our basic guideline for compliance, and employees do not oﬀer bribes and do not pursue proﬁts that the Mitsubishi Electric Group recognizes the importance of ethics can be realized only by oﬀering bribes. Furthermore, we are and absolute compliance with legal requirements as a fundamental conducting monitoring activities such as maintaining and enacting precondition for the Group's continued existence. internal regulations for interactions with public oﬃcials inside and Based on this awareness, we are attempting to perfect a outside the country as a measure to prevent bribery. In addition, we compliance system which promotes compliance in the broadest provide education to employees who regularly interact with public sense, encompassing the perspective of corporate ethics, rather oﬃcials in the combined form of e-learning programs and than merely focusing on following the letter of the law. At the same face-to-face education. In the light of the current global situation time, we are working to educate our employees in this area. where anti-bribery regulations are becoming increasingly tighter, we With regard to anti-trust laws, we make ongoing Group-wide will continue to enhance measures in each region, and take eﬀective eﬀorts to both prevent any recurrence of such incidents and prevent and eﬃcient measures by selecting countries and transactions with previous incidents from being forgotten. In addition to formulating particularly high risks of being involved in bribery, to respond to the and operating internal regulations that govern Mitsubishi Electric and expansion of our business at a global level. its aﬃliated companies in Japan and overseas, we have also As for supply chain management, we ensure the fair and strengthened internal audits that specialize in anti-trust laws, and impartial selection and evaluation of business partners in Japan and place importance on employee training through a combination of overseas by providing an explanation of the Group's Purchasing e-learning and classroom programs. We will continue to make Policy and CSR Procurement Policy, and requesting business greater eﬀorts to prevent similar incidents from occurring and partners' understanding of these policies. By ensuring proper previous incidents from being forgotten, through regular monitoring evaluation of suppliers based on selection and evaluation criteria of the status of daily business activities and internal regulations, established by the Group, risks are also mitigated along the supply practical employee training that matches actual transaction chain. We have also established the CSR Procurement Guidelines in situations, and other such initiatives. 2018 to widely disseminate Mitsubishi Electricʼs CSR policies and We engage in Group-wide initiatives to prevent bribery. The matters for compliance by our business partners. Approaches will be Mitsubishi Electric Group Anti-Bribery Policy that was established made to all business partners to verify their agreement to promote on April 1, 2017 reiterates to people in and outside the Group our procurement activities in line with the guidelines. Meeting of Compliance Managers in the Asia Region Seminars for Suppliers (Thailand Region) 32 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social CSR Management Management Principles of CSR The Mitsubishi Electric Group regards its corporate made to enforce measures such as enhancing training social responsibility (CSR) initiatives as the foundation of and strengthening internal controls. Active measures its corporate management, and upholds its Corporate are also taken to ensure and improve quality assurance, Mission and Seven Guiding Principles as the basic policies environmental preservation activities, philanthropic of its CSR. Particularly with respect to initiatives related activities, and communication with stakeholders. to ethics and legal compliance, Group-wide efforts are Mitsubishi Electric Stakeholders To achieve sustainable growth, the Mitsubishi Electric To help maintain communication with stakeholders, Group must maintain communication with its various we have taken the Four Satisfactions as a management stakeholders. We have a corporate social responsibility policy, with the aim of providing satisfaction to all of our to incorporate the expectations, requests, and opinions stakeholders, including society, customers, shareholders, of each stakeholder into our corporate activities, and to and employees. increase our positive Stakeholders effect of the on society Mitsubishi while Electric reducing any Group negative effects. Pursue the Satisfaction of the Four Stakeholder Categories Pursue the Satisfaction of the Four Stakeholder Categories Customers Shareholders Employees Social Contribution Excellent Products and Services Society Customer Mitsubishi Increase Corporate Value Rewarding Workplaces Local communities Electric Governments Shareholder Employee Group Pursue the Satisfaction of the Four Stakeholder Categories Business partners NGOs and NPOs Stakeholders of the Mitsubishi Electric Group Promotional System for CSR The policies and planning for the CSR activities of the Knowing that CSR activities are directly linked to Mitsubishi Electric Group are decided by a CSR Committee corporate management, each department responsible appointed by Mitsubishi Electric's executive officers. for ethics and legal compliance, quality assurance The Committee is composed of the heads of Mitsubishi and improvement, environmental conservation and Electric's management departments (19 members in philanthropy activities, and communication with charge of environmental, social and governance aspects stakeholders implements their own initiatives, based on from divisions such as Corporate Strategic Planning and the CSR policy of the Mitsubishi Electric Group. Corporate Human Resources), and discusses the results In addition to the CSR Committee that is generally of activities performed during the previous fiscal year, held once a year, various activities are also promoted decisions on future activity plans, and responses to law and implemented in communication with the CSR Expert amendments, from a perspective that spans the entire Committee and CSR Business Promotion Committee, Mitsubishi Electric Group. which are convened as a forum for sharing and executing the policies and plans established by the CSR Committee. 33 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social CSR Promotion System CSR Committee Chairman: Corporate Director in charge of CSR Administration Div. Director-general: CSR Promotion Center General Manager of the Corporate Administration Div. CSR CSR Business Promotion Expert Committee Committee Departments Affiliates in Japan Overseas Affiliates CSR Promotion System CSR Committee Main agenda of the CSR Committee (held in April 2019) ⃝R  eport on achievements made in the previous takes into account ESG (environment, social, fiscal year and activities planned in the current governance) investment fiscal year ⃝ Human rights initiatives ⃝ Responses to the sustainable development goals ⃝ Supply chain management (SDGs) ⃝ Long-term environmental vision ⃝ Further enhanced information disclosure that CSR Expert Committee Officers from 19 departments with particular relevance to CSR regularly hold meetings to share information and deepen their understanding of the Mitsubishi Electric Group's CSR materiality and future initiatives, as well as discuss responses to laws and regulations and international CSR standards. They aim to build communication and consensus through these discussions. Four such meetings were held in fiscal 2019. Discussions focused on verifying the performance and reviewing the targets of initiatives addressing CSR materiality, and discussing responses to the sustainable development goals (SDGs). The committee also examined responses to global human rights initiatives by establishing CSR Expert Committee working groups for relevant departments. CSR Business Promotion Committee Managers from all business groups gather in regular meetings to share information about the Mitsubishi Electric Group's CSR and discuss social issues that need to be solved, with the theme of contributing to society through business. The committee held four meetings in fiscal 2019, with a focus on discussing how the Group could contribute to addressing the sustainable development goals (SDGs) through business. CSR Business Promotion Committee 34 CSR Management About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social CSR Materiality and SDGs Management CSR Materiality and SDGs Management CSR Materiality CSR Materiality Considering requests from the Global Reporting Initiative We will implement activities to continuously improve our (GRI)*, social trends and the business environment, in ﬁscal performance related to CSR materiality , initiatives, and 2016 the Mitsubishi Electric Group identiﬁed CSR materiality , targets / Key Performance Indicators (KPI) based on the initiatives, and targets / Key Performance Indicators (KPI) to PDCA (Plan-Do-Check-Action) Cycle approach. fulﬁll the materiality towards realizing the further integration * An international body that proposes shared global guidelines for of CSR with management and the long-term advancement of corporate sustainability reporting CSR initiatives. CSR materiality Environmental issues including climate change and resource and energy Realize a sustainable society issues are global issues. The Mitsubishi Electric Group will contribute to solving these issues with the aim of realizing a sustainable society. Various issues are becoming evident due to urbanization and other reasons. Provide safety, security, and comfort The Mitsubishi Electric Group will provide safety, security, and comfort while contributing to solving issues with a focus on city development. Respect human rights and promote Human rights and diversity are global issues. As a global company, the the active participation of diverse Mitsubishi Electric Group will grapple with these issues. Diversity is also human resources crucial for creating innovation, which is the source of the Group’s strength. Strengthen corporate governance and Corporate governance and compliance are fundamental preconditions for a company’s continued existence. The Mitsubishi Electric Group will continue to compliance on a continuous basis strengthen these areas. The Mitsubishi Electric Group and the SDGs In 2015, the countries of the United Nations General governance (ESG)-related activities, the Mitsubishi Electric Assembly adopted the Sustainable Development Goals Group is contributing to meeting the 17 SDGs. (SDGs). The Mitsubishi Electric Group views these SDGs as an important agenda, the realization of which society seeks. Under its corporate mission that The Mitsubishi Electric Group will continually improve its technologies and services by applying creativity to all aspects of its business. By doing so, we enhance the quality of life in our society the Group aims to contribute to solving social issues. This policy corresponds to what the globally shared goals of the SDGs aim to achieve. Through our numerous businesses and the entirety of our corporate activities, including environment, society and The SDGs (Sustainable Development Goals) The SDGs are a set of global goals that are to be achieved between 2016 and 2030. They were adopted by the United Nations General Assembly in September 2015 as a successor to the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) that were formulated in 2001, and are composed of 17 goals and 169 targets for achieving a sustainable world. Two key principles of the SDGs (Sustainable Development Goals) are that they seek change in developed countries, including Japan, and that they pledge no one will be left behind in the implementation of their initiatives. In Japan, the SDGs Promotion Headquarters has been established, chaired by the Prime Minister and composed of all ministers in the Cabinet Oﬃce, to formulate implementation guidelines and promote initiatives for the SDGs. United Nations Information Centres 35 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social CSR Materiality and SDGs Management https://www.MitsubishiElectric.com/en/sustainability/csr/management/management/materiality̲sdgs/index.html Focusing on the SDGs In fiscal 2019, we decided on goals that we would comprehensive electrical and electronics manufacturer, address on a priority basis to further contribute to the we will make a specific contribution to achieving the Focusing SDGs. on the SDGs SDGs. In doing this, the Mitsubishi Electric Group will In ﬁscal 2019, we decided on goals that we would address electrical and electronics manufacturer, we will make a speciﬁc ⃝ Goal 7: Affordable and Clean Energy integrate the concept of the SDGs into its management on a priority basis to further contribute to the SDGs. contribution to achieving the SDGs. ⃝ Goal 11: Sustainable Cities and Communities strategy and contribute to the SDGs that we will prioritize ● Goal 7: Aﬀordable and Clean Energy In doing this, the Mitsubishi Electric Group will integrate ⃝ Goal 13: Climate Action through the CSR materiality initiatives of Realize a ● Goal 11: Sustainable Cities and Communities the concept of the SDGs into its management strategy and Sustainable Society, and Provide Safety, Security, and ● Goal 13: Climate Action By further promoting initiatives to create value for contribute Comfort. to the SDGs that we will prioritize through the CSR By further promoting initiatives to create value for these goals materiality initiatives of Realize a Sustainable Society, and these goals to which we can contribute significantly as a to which we can contribute signiﬁcantly as a comprehensive Provide Safety, Security, and Comfort. CSR materiality Contribute to the SDGs Contribute through all corporate activities CSRCSR materiality materiality andand SDGs SDGs Progress of Initiatives to Address the SDGs The Mitsubishi Electric Group is conducting measures in a tee and CSR business promotion group commenced reviews variety of forms to make our employees aware of the by devising potential responses by their own companies. In background to the adoption of the Sustainable Development ﬁscal 2019, we decided on SDGs that we could implement on Goals (SDGs) and to entrench the individual goals themselves, a priority basis. in order to deepen understanding of the SDGs among each of With achievement of the goals we share globally as our them. Considering how the Mitsubishi Electric Group could objective, we will maintain our eﬀorts to bolster management contribute, the Groupʼs CSR committee, CSR expert commitas we work to make everyone throughout the company fully cognizant of our SDGs and integrate the thinking behind them Main initiatives to the present into our operations. ● Lecture presentation for executives by Toshio Arima, a board member of Global Compact Network Japan (ﬁscal 2018) ● Reﬂecting of SDGs in our business strategy (ﬁscal 2018, ﬁscal 2019, ﬁscal 2020) ● Holding lecture presentations regarding the SDGs for research and development divisions (ﬁscal 2018) ● Promoting understanding about the SDGs through internal newsletters (ﬁscal 2018, ﬁscal 2019, ﬁscal 2020) ● Education of staﬀ to advance the SDGs during training of CSR personnel (ﬁscal 2018, ﬁscal 2019) ● SDGs training (ﬁscal 2019) SDGs Training 36 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social Initiatives related to the 17 SDGs The Mitsubishi Electric Group, as a comprehensive projects on a national scale. As such, we believe that electrical and electronic manufacturer, handles a wide we can also greatly contribute toward meeting the 17 range of technologies, products, and services, ranging Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). from familiar home electronics products to satellites and No Poverty Zero Hunger Good Health and Well-being Quality Education We are working to end poverty We are contributing to solving foodWe contribute to improving In addition to providing technological by creating employment through related issues through measures health and well-being through assistance to developing nations the global expansion of our including the provision of IT support transportation safety support and supporting remote education business, and launching initiatives for agriculture via ICT and positioning systems that help to cut down through our communication and IT including the establishment satellites, improving productivity in traffic accidents, as well as through technologies, we are contributing of social infrastructure and foodstuffs factories through FA, and cutting-edge Air conditioning to fostering the next generation philanthoropic activities. supplying refrigeration and freezing Systems that contribute to the and beyond through activities that technologies for food. advancement of treatment. contribute to society. Gender Equality Clean Water and Sanitation Affordable and Clean Energy Decent Work and Economic Growth We are supporting the social The Group has technology for We are working to develop Through our FA and AI empowerment of women treating and purifying water, technologies and systems that technologies, we are working through providing ICT services and supplies technologies and will help produce a smart, to contribute to increased and supplying home appliances, systems whose purpose is to energy-conserving, and energyproductivity and the provision of and we are promoting the further deliver safe water. creating society — technologies, desirable working environments advancement of women within products, and services that we throughout the Group. the Group. are endeavoring to make widely available. Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure Reduced Inequalities Sustainable Cities and Communities Responsible Consumption and Production The Group supports In cooperation with our We provide safety, security, We are endeavoring to reduce manufacturing through its stakeholders, we are contributing and comfort to people's lives the volume of resources used factory automation business, to realizing discrimination-free through our work in the disasterin manufacturing and to recycle and nurtures development societies that respect human prevention and infrastructurespent products. Additionally, we in the industrial field through rights. development fields. are also pushing to reduce the technological innovation. volume of final waste disposed and to be environmentally friendly in our resource procurements. Climate Action Life below Water/ Life on Land Peace, Justice Partnerships for the Goals and Strong Institutions We are working to identify a We develop and supply We are contributing to the total valuation of our CO2 and observation satellites that Based on laws and international achievement of the SDGs other greenhouse gas emissions deliver information about ocean norms, we are working to through partnerships with in order to set our goals for and forest conditions, and improve both our supply chains entities including governments, reductions. furthermore promote initiatives at and areas including human rights, universities, research institutes, our offices aimed at harmonizing labor, the environment and the companies, and NGOs, pushing their activities with the local prevention of corruption on a ahead with open innovation and environment. global scale. other initiatives. 37 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social Progress of Initiatives to Address the SDGs The Mitsubishi Electric Group is conducting measures potential responses by their own companies. In fiscal in a variety of forms to make our employees aware 2019, we decided on SDGs that we could implement on of the background to the adoption of the Sustainable a priority basis. Development Goals (SDGs) and to entrench the individual With achievement of the goals we share globally goals themselves, in order to deepen understanding of as our objective, we will maintain our efforts to bolster the SDGs among each of them. Considering how the management as we work to make everyone throughout Mitsubishi Electric Group could contribute, the Group’ s the company fully cognizant of our SDGs and integrate CSR committee, CSR expert committee and CSR business the thinking behind them into our operations. promotion group commenced reviews by devising Main initiatives to the present ⃝ L ecture presentation for executives by Toshio Arima, ⃝P  romoting understanding about the SDGs through a board member of Global Compact Network Japan internal newsletters (fiscal 2018, fiscal 2019, fiscal (fiscal 2018) 2020) ⃝ Reflecting of SDGs in our business strategy (fiscal ⃝ Education of staff to advance the SDGs during 2018, fiscal 2019, fiscal 2020) training of CSR personnel (fiscal 2018, fiscal 2019) ⃝ Holding lecture presentations regarding the SDGs for ⃝ SDGs training (fiscal 2019) research and development divisions (fiscal 2018) Lecture presentation for executives by Toshio Arima from Global Compact Network Japan Lecture presentation regarding the SDGs for research and development divisions Corporate Strategy 2019 SDGs training In-house newsletter VOICE (In charge of sales in Taiwan) Manager, NC Sales Section 1, NC Sales Department, FA Division Mitsubishi Electric Taiwan Co., Ltd. Raymond Chen The Taiwanese government has been focusing on supporting the realization of smart machine tools on a global basis. In order to realize this Smart Machinery concept, Mitsubishi Electric Taiwan has been providing support to the government by leveraging its strengths in CNC (Computer Numerical Control) and the e-F@ctory FA-IT total solution. Almost 80% of machine tools manufactured in Taiwan are exported and I feel that Smart Machinery has the potential to turn production sites in countries around the world into Smart Factories. While spreading Taiwan’ s Smart Machinery across the globe, and thereby streamlining customers’manufacturing and reducing the amount of energy used, I will contribute to achieving the SDGs. 38 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social Initiatives / External Evaluation Initiatives Participation in the UN Global Compact In May 2018, the Mitsubishi Electric Group signed the UN Global Compact (UNGC) aimed at promoting CSR activities based on international norms. By signing the UNGC, the Group pledges to make continued efforts toward sustainable growth by complying with the ten principles in the four areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption to the extent that it can influence society. Efforts will be made to enhance the Group’ s activities by maintaining close communication with UN organizations and relevant initiatives. UN Global Compact Initiatives as an official partner of the Olympic and Paralympic Games Tokyo 2020 Mitsubishi Electric will fulfill its role as an official partner of the Tokyo 2020 in the category of elevators, escalators and moving walkways by contributing to making relevant facilities and surrounding infrastructure barrier-free, and by promoting the success of the Tokyo 2020 through activities that support the Olympic and Paralympic movement and by assisting the Japanese national team. We will work in close coordination with the Organising Committee and Tokyo, the host city of the Games, as well as with other local governments, the central government and partner companies to leave a new legacy to the next generation after the Tokyo 2020. Mitsubishi Electric engages in activities to spread the also been launched in November 2017 to promote a sports culture through corporate sports events such as in better understanding of diversity and actions that respect basketball, tennis and badminton, and has signed official human rights among all employees. This initiative will also contracts with the Japanese Para-Sports Association and be implemented in all offices toward 2020. the Japan Wheelchair Basketball Federation. Through these activities, we not only contribute to spreading and raising awareness of Para-Sports, but also aim to contribute to creating an inclusive society where everyone mutually respects and accepts each other regardless of any disabilities. For example, the Mitsubishi Electric Going Up Campaign kicked off in October 2016 as a project for spreading familiarity with wheelchair basketball and various other sports among as many people as possible. It will be held in sequence throughout Japan toward 2020. Additionally, Mitsubishi Electric Going Up Seminars have 39 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social Expression of approval of the TCFD recommendations The Mitsubishi Electric Group has expressed approval of the recommendations by TCFD (Task Force on Climaterelated Financial Disclosures). Revision of the Charter of Corporate Behavior of the Keidanren The Japan Business Federation, better known as Keidanren, has revised its Charter of Corporate Behavior*1 in November 2017. The revision is to give primary aim to proactively delivering on the SDGs (sustainable development goals) through the realization of Society 5.0*2, and is thought to emphasize initiatives for realizing a sustainable society and for promoting human rights. As a member of Keidanren, Mitsubishi Electric will voluntarily carry out and observe the spirit of the Charter. *1 A  code of ethics put forward by Keidanren as matters to be carried out and pursued by all member companies. *2 T  he fifth and new generation of society in the history of human society following the hunter-gathering, agricultural, industrial and information societies. Main initiatives in which Mitsubishi Electric is participating ⃝ Japan Business Federation (Keidanren) ⃝ Japan Association of Corporate Executives ⃝ The Japan Chamber of Commerce and Industry ⃝ Japan Electronics and Information Technology Industries Association ⃝ The Japan Electrical Manufacturers' Association ⃝ Communications and Information Network Association of Japan ⃝ The Japan Machinery Federation ⃝ Council on Competitiveness-Nippon ⃝ Japanese Standards Association ⃝ Japan Intellectual Property Association ⃝ Japan Institute of Invention and Innovation 40 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social External Evaluation CDP Mitsubishi Electric has received the highest rating from CDP. ⃝ A List company for Climate Change and Water Security for three consecutive years ⃝ Supplier Engagement Leader Mitsubishi Electric Named to CDP's Climate and Water A Lists — Environmental activities recognized for third consecutive year Mitsubishi Electric Named CDP Supplier Engagement Leader FTSE Index Series FTSE Russell (UK) is a company that engages in the development of global investment indexes and the provision of financial data to investors. Mitsubishi Electric was selected as a constituent of the company’ s FTSE4Good Index Series. Additionally, Mitsubishi Electric was selected as a constituent of the FTSE Blossom Japan Index. The index has also been adopted as an investment outlet by the Government Pension Investment Fund (GPIF). MSCI Indexes MSCI (USA) is a company that calculates and announces various indexes of global constituents. Mitsubishi Electric was selected as a constituent of MSCI ESG Leaders Indexes. Mitsubishi Electric was selected as a constituent for the MSCI Japan ESG Select Leaders Index, which consists of Japanese stock names ranked according to their ESG (environment, social, governance) performance, and also for the MSCI Japan Empowering Women Index (WIN), consisting of select companies in Japan displaying excellent gender diversity. The two indexes have also been adopted as an investment outlet by GPIF. * T  HE INCLUSION OF Mitsubishi Electric Corporation IN ANY MSCI INDEX, AND THE USE OF MSCI LOGOS, TRADEMARKS, SERVICE MARKS OR INDEX NAMES HEREIN, DO NOT CONSTITUTE A SPONSORSHIP, ENDORSEMENT OR PROMOTION OF Mitsubishi Electric Corporation BY MSCI OR ANY OF ITS AFFILIATES. THE MSCI INDEXES ARE THE EXCLUSIVE PROPERTY OF MSCI. MSCI AND THE MSCI INDEX NAMES AND LOGOS ARE TRADEMARKS OR SERVICE MARKS OF MSCI OR ITS AFFILIATES. S&P/JPX Carbon Efficient Index Mitsubishi Electric was selected as a constituent of the S&P/JPX Carbon Efficient Index designed to measure the performance of companies by focusing on the level of carbon efficiency (carbon emissions per sales). The Index, which is constructed by S&P Dow Jones Indices, is based on carbon emission data by Trucost, which assesses risks relating to climate change, natural resource constraints, and broader environmental, social, and governance factors. The index has also been adopted as an investment outlet by GPIF. MS-SRI (Morningstar Socially Responsible Investment Index) Mitsubishi Electric was selected as a constituent of the Morningstar Socially Responsible Investment Index (MSSRI), which selects and creates an index of 150 Japanese companies evaluated by Morningstar Japan K.K. as socially responsible companies. 41 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social Process of Identification and Review of the CSR Materiality Process of Identification and Review In fiscal 2016, the Mitsubishi Electric Group identified CSR In fiscal 2019, an internal review of the materiality materiality and initiatives in response to today's social was undertaken by the CSR Expert Committee and CSR trends and business environment, as also required by the Business Promotion Committee, in view of subjective fourth edition of the GRI Guidelines. evaluations from outside the company, including While continuing to incorporate opinions from inside stakeholder questionnaires (600 respondents) that have and outside the company, these initiatives will be further been also carried out since fiscal 2017, interviews with strengthened through ongoing improvement activities experts, and dialogues between experts and management. based on the PDCA cycle, to expand the scope of information disclosure. Process of Identifying and Reviewing the Materiality Step 1 Awareness of social issues (fiscal 2016) Extraction of candidate materiality from guidelines, etc. Candidate CSR materiality (29 issues) were identified based on the core issues of ISO26000*1, the 46 priority aspects laid out in the fourth edition of the GRI Guidelines*2, and the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). *1G uidelines concerning social responsibility issued by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) *2The fourth edition of the international guidelines for sustainability called Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (GRI Guidelines) issued by the international NGO, Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Extraction of candidate materiality from guidelines, etc. Step 2 Assessment of internal and external views and identification of materiality (fiscal 2016) 三菱電機グループ CSR アンケート ＜記入要領＞ ・ステークホルダー区分について、プルダウンメニューよりお選びください。 ・以下の項目は、三菱電機グループとして、いずれも重要な取り組みですが、皆様からご覧になって、さらなる取り組みが期待される分野などを 明らかにするために、以下の５段階で期待度を記入して下さい（期待度欄のプルダウンメニューから数値を選択してください）。 ・可能な範囲で、記入いただいた期待度の理由を「理由・コメント」欄に記載してください。 最優先での取り組みを期待 現状より取り組むことを期待 現状の取り組みで良い ５ ４ ３ ２ １ l＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿l＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿l＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿l＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿l 【注意事項】 ・期待度の記入は、できるだけ５と１を含めて、５～１まで項目間の差がつくようにお願いいたします。 ・下記項目以外に、取り組みを期待する事項がある場合は、「自由記入欄」にご記入ください。 ステークホ ルダー区分 事業を通じた三菱電機グループへの期待 No. 項目 期待度 理由・コメント 1 環境問題の解決に貢献する製品・サービスの提供 2 途上国の発展に貢献する製品・サービスの提供 3 健康・高齢化問題の解決に貢献する製品・サービスの提供 4 安心・安全な生活に貢献する製品・サービスの提供 5 エネルギー問題の解決に貢献する製品・サービスの提供 6 スマートな街づくりに貢献する製品・サービスの提供 7 事業活動における省エネの推進 8 事業活動における水使用量削減の推進 9 事業活動における生態系への配慮 10 事業活動におけるCO2削減の推進 11 事業活動における資源のリサイクル推進 12 化学物質の適正管理 13 製造・利用・廃棄時の環境負荷が少ない製品の開発 14 お客様の環境意識向上に向けた取り組み推進 15 製品の品質・安全確保 16 取引先に対する当社グループCSR活動への協力依頼 企業としての三菱電機グループへの期待 No. 項目 期待度 理由・コメント 17 従業員の安全確保 18 従業員の健康確保 19 雇用や労働条件への配慮 20 ダイバーシティ（多様な人材の活用）の推進 21 人権の尊重 22 ワークライフバランス（仕事と生活の調和）の推進 23 グローバル人材の育成 24 地域社会への貢献 25 ステークホルダー（利害関係者）との積極的な対話 26 コンプライアンス（法令順守）の徹底 27 個人情報の保護 28 知的財産権の保護 29 健全なチェック機能が働く企業経営 自由記入欄 Questionnaire for stakeholders Internal working groups Interviews with experts Dialogues with directors and experts 42 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social Step 3 Establishment of materiality (fiscal 2016) Decision-making by the CSR Committee The issues thus extracted and identified through confirmed by an internal working group and adopted the above-described process and specific initiatives as the Mitsubishi Electric Group's CSR materiality by andof targets/key Matrix CSR Materialiry performance indicators (KPI) were the CSR Committee. Tasks to prioritize High Tasks to prioritize Stakeholder expectation level ・Provide products and services that help to solve environmental issues. ・Provide products and services that help to solve energy problems. ・Secure product quality and safety. ・Develop globally competent human. Medium ・Actively communicate with stakeholders. ・Strictly enforce compliance. ・Implement corporate management with sound and functional check capabilities. ・Provide products and services that help to solve health and aging issues. Low ・Provide products and services that contribute to peaceful and safe living. ・Develop products with a low environmental impact in manufacturing, use, and disposal. Low Medium High ・Request that business partners cooperate with Mitsubishi Electric Group's CSR activities. Company's understanding of the initiative priority ・Promote workplace diversity. ・Promote work-life balance. Mitsubishi Electric’ s Matrix of CSR Materiality CSR Committee Step 4 Review of the materiality (fiscal 2016) Since fiscal 2017, the CSR materiality, initiatives, and ⃝ Interviews with experts targets/key performance indicators (KPI) have been ⃝ Dialogues with directors and experts reviewed regularly, in consideration of opinions ⃝ Reader surveys regarding the CSR Report from both inside and outside the company. ⃝ D  iscussion by the CSR Committee, CSR Expert Committee and CSR Business Promotion Committee Dialogues with directors and experts Interviews with experts CSR Committee, CSR Expert Committee, CSR Business Promotion Committee In fiscal 2019, the committees explored specific ways to The committees will continue to strengthen their address the SDGs and shared an awareness regarding initiatives through continuous reviews and ongoing the importance of disclosing information in consideration improvement activities based on the PDCA cycle, in of growing ESG (environment, social, governance) response to changes in the external and business investments. environments. Social demands that were particularly taken into consideration in fiscal 2019 ⃝ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) ⃝ Global trends in human rights ⃝F urther promotion of information disclosure in ⃝ Initiatives of the Group as a global company consideration of growing ESG investments ⃝ Long-term efforts to address environmental issues ⃝ Paris Agreement 43 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social Management of the CSR Materiality In fiscal 2016, the Mitsubishi Electric Group identified the Guiding Principles as its basic CSR policy, the Group will CSR materiality, initiatives to fulfill the materiality, and key continue to pursue its initiatives for addressing the four performance indicators (KPI). In fiscal 2017, it announced materiality in cooperation with business partners along its performance in regard to those initiatives and carried the supply chain, with the aim of becoming a global out a review of each initiative and KPI. leading green company that contributes to a diverse By upholding the Corporate Mission and Seven society. Realize a Sustainable Society FY2019 initiatives and results Initiatives Key performance indicators (KPI) (quantitative targets are shown in brackets) Results Scope Evaluation Reduce CO2 emissions from production Contributing to (less than 1.47 million tons by FY2021) 1.30 million tons (FY2019) 〇 All Mitsubishi Electric Group realizing a lowReduce CO2 emissions from product usage companies (Japan, overseas) carbon society 36% reduction (FY2019) 〇 (35% reduction compared to FY2001 by FY2021) Reduce resource inputs (40% reduction compared to FY2001 by FY2021) 45% reduction (FY2019) 〇 Improve the final disposal rate of waste materials Contributing (Mitsubishi Electric and domestic affiliates to Less than 0.1% by Mitsubishi Electric and All Mitsubishi Electric Group to creating a maintain a rate of less than 0.1%, and overseas domestic affiliates, 0.52% by overseas affiliates companies (Japan, overseas) × Realization of recycling society affiliates to halve the rate to less than 0.5% by (FY2019) Environmental FY2021) Vision 2021*1 Reduce water usage per unit of sales (by 1% per annum compared to FY2011 in FY2021) 23% reduction (FY2019) 〇 Increase the number of participants in outdoor classrooms and satoyama preservation activities All Mitsubishi Electric Group (cumulative total of more than 51,000 participants 43,000 participants (FY2019) companies (Japan, overseas) 〇 Contributing by FY2021) to realizing a symbiotic society Promoted initiatives, including the acquisition Boost the level of biodiversity protection activities by of SEGES (Social and Environmental Green offices in line with the Aichi Targets*2 Evaluation System) Certification at Mitsubishi Mitsubishi Electric 〇 Electric’s Power Distribution Systems Center Provide products and services that contribute to Contribute to mitigating and adapting to climate mitigating and adapting to climate change and change and optimizing energy use through 〇 Contribution through products optimizing energy use products and services All Mitsubishi Electric Group and services companies (Japan, overseas) Maintain the reduction of CO2 during product usage (70 million tons by FY2001 standards) 77 million tons (FY2019) 〇 *1 T argets of the 9th environmental plan (fiscal 2019–2021) *2 Aichi Targets: 20 targets for stopping biodiversity loss agreed upon at COP10 FY2020 targets Initiatives Key performance indicators (KPI) (quantitative targets are shown in brackets) Scope Contributing to Reduce CO2 emissions from production (less than 1.47 million tons by FY2021) All Mitsubishi Electric Group companies realizing a low(Japan, overseas) carbon society Reduce CO2 emissions from product usage (35% reduction compared to FY2001 by FY2021) Reduce resource inputs (40% reduction compared to FY2001 by FY2021) Realization of Contributing Environmental Improve the final disposal rate of waste materials (Mitsubishi Electric and domestic affiliates to maintain All Mitsubishi Electric Group companies to creating a a rate of less than 0.1%, and overseas affiliates to halve the rate to less than 0.5% by FY2021) (Japan, overseas) Vision 2021*1 recycling society Reduce water usage per unit of sales (by 1% per annum compared to FY2011 in FY2021) Contributing Increase the number of participants in outdoor classrooms and satoyama preservation activities All Mitsubishi Electric Group companies to realizing a (cumulative total of more than 51,000 participants by FY2021) (Japan, overseas) symbiotic society Enhance the level of biodiversity protection activities by offices in line with the Aichi Targets*2 Mitsubishi Electric Provide products and services that contribute to Goal 7, Affordable and clean energy, and Goal 13, Contribution through products Climate action, of the SDGs All Mitsubishi Electric Group companies and services (Japan, overseas) Maintain the reduction of CO2 during product usage (70 million tons by FY2001 standards) *1 Targets of the 9th environmental plan (fiscal 2019–2021) *2 Aichi Targets: 20 targets for stopping biodiversity loss agreed upon at COP10 44 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social Provide Safety, Security, and Comfort FY2019 initiatives and results Initiatives Key performance indicators (KPI) (quantitative targets are shown in brackets) Results Scope Evaluation Product development Ensure safety through risk assessment All Mitsubishi Electric Maintained a 100% rate of implementation of risk that places top priority on (maintain a 100% rate of implemention of risk assessments of target home electronics Group companies 〇 customer safety assessments of target home electronics) (Japan, overseas) Develop key persons who are capable of incorporating Development of 88% of key persons (FY2017) → customers' needs into quality Mitsubishi Electric Group (development of 100% of relevant persons in all Development of 96% of key persons (FY2018) → companies (Japan) 〇 Development of 97% of key persons (FY2019) departments by FY2021) Provision of products Achieved a 100% rate of implementation of and services that reflect investigations into the root causes of serious defects customers' needs Make Group-wide efforts to investigate the cause of discovered in the previous fiscal year All Mitsubishi Electric serious malfunctions that have occurred in the past, Called attention throughout the Mitsubishi Electric Group Group companies 〇 and implement countermeasures (Japan and overseas) regarding common technical (Japan, overseas) issues such as failsafes at the end of the lifecycle of products and salt corrosion Maintained a 100% rate of participation in e-learning programs by Mitsubishi Electric employees and Continuous implementation employees of domestic affiliates Maintain a 100% rate of participation in e-learning All Mitsubishi Electric of education on quality programs on quality Expanded the participation of overseas affiliates in Group companies 〇 principles that place top (maintain a rate of 100%) (Japan, overseas) priority on customers e-learning programs 27 overseas affiliates (FY2017) → 41 overseas affiliates (FY2018) → 48 overseas affiliates (FY2019) All Mitsubishi Electric Contribution through Provide products and services that contribute to Contributed to creating safe and secure communities creating safe and secure communities through products and services Group companies 〇 products and services (Japan, overseas) FY2020 targets Initiatives Key performance indicators (KPI) (quantitative targets are shown in brackets) Scope Product development Ensure safety through risk assessment All Mitsubishi Electric Group companies that places top priority on (maintain 100% implementation of risk assessments of target home electronic products) (Japan, overseas) customer safety Develop key persons who are capable of incorporating customers' needs into quality All Mitsubishi Electric Group companies Provision of products (development of 100% of relevant persons in all target departments by FY2021) (Japan) and services that reflect customers' needs Make Group-wide efforts to investigate the cause of serious malfunctions that have occurred in the past, All Mitsubishi Electric Group companies and implement countermeasures (Japan, overseas) Continuous implementation Maintain 100% rate of participation in quality e-learning programs of education on quality (maintain a rate of 100%) All Mitsubishi Electric Group companies principles that place top (Japan, overseas) priority on customers Enhance the content of education on quality principles Contribution through All Mitsubishi Electric Group companies Provide products and services that contribute to Goal 11, Sustainable cities and communities, of the SDGs products and services (Japan, overseas) 45 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social Respect Human Rights and Promote the Active Participation of Diverse Human Resources FY2019 initiatives and results Initiatives Key performance indicators (KPI) (quantitative targets are shown in brackets) Results Scope Evaluation Identify and evaluate impacts on human rights across Achieved a 100% rate of implementation by target the Group (achieve a 100% rate of implementation companies of human rights impact assessment (Identify 〇 by target companies) and evaluate impacts on human rights) Carried out e-learning programs to employees of All Mitsubishi Electric Group Promote ongoing human rights training programs, Mitsubishi Electric and its affiliates in Japan and companies (Japan, overseas) Promote human rights relief measures against human rights violations and overseas (82 companies, 71,588 employees) △ initiatives that are based other such measures Started considering relief measures against human on international norms rights violations Provided lectures on human rights awareness and Provide lectures on human rights awareness and harassment prevention to all participants attending harassment prevention in training programs for new training programs for 858 new employees and 532 Mitsubishi Electric 〇 employees and those for newly appointed managers newly appointed managers Continue to promote the Work Style Reforms based Realization of workplace on four perspectives (Improvement of productivity Promoted the Work Style Reforms (including managing All Mitsubishi Electric Group environments conducive by streamlining operations, Further pursuit of systems that support operation efficiency and flexible companies (Japan, overseas) 〇 to work-life balance achievements and efficiency, Work-life fulfillment work styles) at Mitsubishi Electric Group companies and Promotion of communication in the workplace) Promote diversity by employing and utilizing diverse Promoted diversity by employing and utilizing diverse All Mitsubishi Electric Group human resources in response to regional and human resources across the Mitsubishi Electric Group companies (Japan, overseas) 〇 operational circumstance (Japan and overseas) Consolidated result of three companies*1: 2.26% Promotion of diversity Employ people with disabilities beyond the statutory Mitsubishi Electric Group through the employment employment rate (higher than 2.2%) Promoted the achievement of the statutory employment companies (Japan) 〇 rate by domestic affiliates and utilization of diverse Increase the ratio of women among new recruits in human resources technical positions (future target of 20%) 10% (FY2020; October 2018 and April 2019 recruits) △ Systematically dispatch employees to overseas OJT Mitsubishi Electric Dispatched 91 employees to overseas OJT programs, 86 programs and language programs (more than 180 employees to overseas language programs △ employees/year) Promoted safety and health management activities in conjunction with affiliated companies that operate in the Promote safety management and health enhancement All Mitsubishi Electric Group activities same areas as Mitsubishi Electric companies (Japan, overseas) △ Provided assistance to affiliated companies (Japan and overseas) from Mitsubishi Electric Promote safety and health education, and maintain Offered safety and health education (e-learning a rate of lost worktime injuries*2 that falls below the programs) to all employees Mitsubishi Electric 〇 Promotion of occupational industrial average (below 0.51) Rate of lost worktime injuries (absence from work): 0.04 health and mental and Improve lifestyle habits and realize a health-conscious company by implementing Mitsubishi Electric Group physical health Health Plan 21 (MHP21) Stage III activities (rate of Rate of employees maintaining proper body weight 73.0% or higher of employees maintaining proper 69.4%; rate of employees who exercise regularly: body weight; rate of 39.0% or higher of employees 25.2%; rate of employees who smoke: 23.5%; rate of Mitsubishi Electric Group who exercise regularly; rate of 20.0% or lower of employees who perform dental care at least three times companies (Japan) △ employees who smoke; rate of 25.0% or higher of a day: 25.3%; rate of 66.8 % of employees who get employees who perform dental care at least three enough rest by sleeping properly times a day; rate of 85% or higher of employees who get enough rest by sleeping properly) *1 Mitsubishi Electric Corporation, Mitsubishi Electric Life Service Corporation, Melco Tender Mates Corporation (special subsidiary) *2 Number of accidents causing lost worktime per 1 million hours FY2020 targets Initiatives Key performance indicators (KPI) (quantitative targets are shown in brackets) Scope Ongoing human rights training programs All Mitsubishi Electric Group companies Promote human rights Enhancement of a reporting system with respect to human rights violations (Japan, overseas) initiatives that are based Provide lectures on human rights awareness and harassment prevention in training programs for new employees on international norms Mitsubishi Electric and those for newly appointed managers Continue to promote the Work Style Reforms in order to cultivate an awareness among employees on the goal of Realization of workplace the reforms, realizing a workplace that helps employees work proactively while achieving better work-life balance All Mitsubishi Electric Group companies environments conducive and maintaining their mental and physical health, and based on four perspectives (Improvement of productivity (Japan, overseas) to work-life balance by streamlining operations, Further pursuit of achievements and efficiency, Work-life fulfillment and Promotion of communication in the workplace) Promote diversity by employing and utilizing diverse human resources in response to regional and operational All Mitsubishi Electric Group companies circumstances (Japan, overseas) Promotion of diversity Mitsubishi Electric Group companies through the employment Employ people with disabilities beyond the statutory employment rate (higher than 2.2%) (Japan) and utilization of diverse Increase the ratio of women among new recruits in technical positions (future target of 20%) human resources Mitsubishi Electric Systematically dispatch employees to overseas OJT programs and language programs (more than 180 employees/year) All Mitsubishi Electric Group companies Promote safety management and health enhancement activities (Japan, overseas) Promote safety and health education, and maintain a rate of lost worktime injuries* that falls below the industrial Promotion of occupational Mitsubishi Electric average (below 0.45) health and mental and Improve lifestyle habits and realize a health-conscious company by implementing Mitsubishi Electric Group Health physical health Plan 21 (MHP21) Stage III activities (rate of 73.0% or higher of employees maintaining proper body weight; rate Mitsubishi Electric Group companies of 39.0% or higher of employees who exercise regularly; rate of 20.0% or lower of employees who smoke; rate (Japan) of 25.0% or higher of employees who perform dental care at least three times a day; rate of 85% or higher of employees who get enough rest by sleeping properly) * Number of accidents causing lost worktime per 1 million hours 46 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social Strengthen Corporate Governance and Compliance on a Continuous Basis FY2019 initiatives and results Initiatives Key performance indicators (KPI) (quantitative targets are shown in brackets) Results Scope Evaluation Held interviews with experts regarding CSR issues seven Hold a dialogue on CSR with stakeholders more than once a year (more than once/year) times; held a dialogue between experts and management 〇 officers on CSR issues Held a general meeting of shareholders Active dialogue with Hold dialogues with stakeholders through the Held corporate strategy presentation meetings, financial All Mitsubishi Electric Group stakeholders general meeting of shareholders, corporate results presentation meetings, and individual meetings with companies (Japan, overseas) strategy presentation meetings, business strategy institutional investors and analysts, in addition to inviting 〇 presentation meetings, and IR activities in Japan them to the annual Research and Development Open House and overseas and Mitsubishi Electric Advanced Solutions 2018 (exhibition) Held company information sessions for individual investors Provided information that directors require for the supervision of management, in a timely and proper manner, and created new forums for providing data and exchanging views with outside directors to ensure greater provision of proper and Provide proper information to directors at the timely information to directors proper time, conduct a review of the board of Conducted a review of the board of directors, with the result 〇 directors, and analyze and evaluate the review being that the board's ongoing and effective initiatives for sharing appropriate management information with executives in a timely manner based on the results of the annual review Mitsubishi Electric of the board of directors that have become more active Corporate management compared to before were deemed valid. with a sound oversight Provided prior training about the roles, responsibilities and function Provide orientation training and other compliance dealings of directors and executive officers to new appointees education and training to directors and executive Provided compliance education to directors and executive 〇 officers as appropriate at the proper time officers after their appointment, and distributed the latest training materials Establish the necessary internal regulations and frameworks for ensuring the appropriateness of the Mitsubishi Electric Group's businesses, Conducted an internal audit, and regularly reported the audit All Mitsubishi Electric Group conduct an internal audit of their status of results to the Audit Committee via the executive officer in companies (Japan, overseas) 〇 operation, and regularly report the audit result to charge of audits the Audit Committee via the executive officer in charge of audits Provided compliance education that utilizes diverse methods, including lecture meetings, e-learning, and manual All Mitsubishi Electric Group Provide compliance education that utilizes diverse Compliance training on a methods on a continuous basis distribution (Conducted lecture meetings by Mitsubishi companies (Japan, overseas) 〇 Electric's Corporate Legal & Compliance Div. 240 times to continuous basis 9,071 participants) Maintain a 100% attendance in e-learning Maintained a 100% attendance rate Mitsubishi Electric programs on compliance (maintain rate of 100%) Provide practical education in reference to case studies that reflect the characteristics of each Provided education on antimonopoly laws business on a continuous basis Fair competition Identify issues that accompany the systematization of rules concerning contacts Modified the system and improved its operation in response All Mitsubishi Electric Group (prevention of with other companies in the same business and to ientified issues companies (Japan, overseas) 〇 antimonopoly violations) enhance the operation of the system Bolster responses to vertical restraints and Developed guidelines at each base and provided education regulations of antimonopoly laws (Develop using the guidelines in high risk regions guidelines, etc.) Enhance bribery prevention measures: provide Provided bribery prevention training Corruption prevention bribery prevention education (onsite education, Expanded the application of rules to overseas companies All Mitsubishi Electric Group e-learning programs), conduct monitoring with companies (Japan, overseas) 〇 (prevention of bribery) an eye toward establishing regulations and Added notes on bribery among private companies to the guidelines guidelines Formulated CSR procurement guidelines in June 2018 CSR procurement Formulate CSR procurement guidelines, and Requested the submission of a consent form for the CSR (environment, quality, obtain a compliance agreement from suppliers procurement guidelines to approx. 1,400 companies and All Mitsubishi Electric Group △ targeted for the FY2019 survey (100%) obtained response from 91% of the companies (82% companies (Japan, some human rights, compliance, approval rate) overseas) supply chain etc.) Expand the scope of surveys of overseas suppliers Conducted surveys of 5 companies in Europe and 20 to Europe and the U.S. companies in the U.S. 〇 FY2020 targets Initiatives Key performance indicators (KPI) (quantitative targets are shown in brackets) Scope Hold a dialogue on CSR with stakeholders more than once a year (more than once/year) Active dialogue with Hold dialogues with stakeholders through the general meeting of shareholders, corporate strategy presentation All Mitsubishi Electric Group companies stakeholders meetings, financial results presentation meetings, individual meetings and other such information meetings, and IR (Japan, overseas) activities in Japan and overseas Provide proper information to directors at the proper time, conduct a review of the board of directors, and analyze and evaluate the review Mitsubishi Electric Corporate management Provide orientation training and other compliance education and training to directors and executive officers as with a sound oversight appropriate at the proper time function Establish internal regulations and frameworks needed to ensure proper operations of the Mitsubishi Electric Group, All Mitsubishi Electric Group companies conduct internal audits of their operational status, and regularly report audit results to the audit committee via the executive officer in charge of auditing (Japan, overseas) All Mitsubishi Electric Group companies Compliance training on a Provide compliance education that utilizes diverse methods, on a continuous basis (Japan, overseas) continuous basis Maintain a 100% attendance in e-learning programs on compliance (maintain rate of 100%) Mitsubishi Electric Fair competition Establish and thoroughly implement bribery prevention measures: provide practical training on an ongoing basis, All Mitsubishi Electric Group companies (prevention of conduct monitoring with an eye toward establishing regulations and rules (Japan, overseas) antimonopoly violations) Corruption prevention Enhance bribery prevention measures: provide bribery prevention education, conduct monitoring with an eye All Mitsubishi Electric Group companies (prevention of bribery) toward establishing regulations and guidelines (Japan, overseas) Obtain a consent form for the CSR procurement guidelines from suppliers who did not submit in the previous fiscal All Mitsubishi Electric Group companies CSR procurement year and other targeted suppliers for this fiscal year (100%) (Japan, overseas) (environment, quality, human Ascertain material human rights violation risks (forced labor on foreign workers, dangerous and injurious work) All Mitsubishi Electric Group companies rights, compliance, etc.) mainly at subcontract factories (Japan) 47 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social Communication with Stakeholders Status of Communication A strong relationship of trust with stakeholders is indispensable for conducting business activities. We provide various opportunities to help stakeholders understand the Mitsubishi Electric Group and ask for their expectations, requests, and opinions. Major contact Major communication Major stakeholders Responsibilities and issues departments opportunities Customers ・Improvement of customer ・Sales departments Inquiry centers (home appliances: Individual and corporate satisfaction ・Quality departments Customer Relations Center; building customers systems: Information Center, etc.), ・Product safety and quality sales activities, websites, showrooms, events, exhibitions, customer ・Customer response and questionnaires, mass media / support commercials Employees ・Occupational health and ・Personnel Hotlines, intranets, in-house Workers related to the safety departments bulletins, training programs, Mitsubishi Electric Group ・CSR departments meetings between management and ・Respect for human rights in general employees, employee awareness ・Human resource surveys development ・Respect for diversity Government, local ・Compliance with laws and ・External affairs Participation in advisory councils governments, department and committees, participation in the regulations activities of industrial and economic industrial organizations organizations Governmental institutions, ・Compliance with restrictions local governments and industrial organizations relevant to the business activities of the Mitsubishi ・Policy proposals Electric Group NGOs and NPOs ・Grants and partnerships ・Administration Philanthropic activities (funds, NGOs/NPOs citizens through contributions to departments foundations, volunteer activities), groups, etc. with relevance regional communities dialogues on social and to the social and environmental issues ・Dialogues on social and environmental aspects of environmental issues Mitsubishi Electric Business partners ・Materials Information sessions on CSR ・Fair transactions departments procurement, BCP seminars, Business partners that supply raw materials and meetings based on the results of ・CSR promotion through the fair selection and evaluation of parts supply chain suppliers Regional communities ・Contribution to four ・Administration Contributions through business, Communities near activity philanthropic areas departments philanthropic activities (funds, Mitsubishi Electric offices (social welfare; science overseas foundations, volunteer and technology; global activities), grants to universities, environmental conservation; plant inspection tours, factory openculture, art and sports) house events Shareholders ・Increase in corporate value ・IR departments Financial results presentation Shareholders, investment meeting (4 times yearly), general ・Proper redistribution of institutions, investors, meetings of shareholders (once profits etc. directly or indirectly a year), IR events/individual ・Information disclosure meetings, websites (IR resource possessing Mitsubishi Electric shares library), responses to interviews, ・Response to ESG investments shareholder communications Others ・Cooperation in creating ・R&D departments Industry-academia cooperation in Academic institutions and innovation research, stakeholder dialogues research institutions (once a year) ・Joint studies Future generations ・Provision of education ・Administration Inquiry centers, philanthropic opportunities departments programs, factory inspection tours, ・Overseas grants via foundations, events foundations 48 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social Results of Reader Surveys Questionnaire-based Survey Conducted in Japan and Overseas on CSR Reports The Mitsubishi Electric Group conducted a survey with the responders offering many positive options. questionnaire among its stakeholders in Japan regarding They also raised certain issues. The Group takes these the Group’ s CSR initiatives and CSR Report 2018, resulting points seriously and will adjust based on them in future in responses from 600 individuals. activities, with the Group as a whole seeking to push A portion of the survey results is presented here. The further forward on its CSR efforts. Group's initiatives were quite well-thought of overall, Survey summary and partial results FY2019 Survey Summary and Partial Results̲2 [Period] ● Evaluationofofthe Evaluation theCSRCSR materialities materialities December 2018 Sufficient Somewhat sufficient Somewhat insufficient Insufficient (%) [Questionnaire responders] 0 20 40 60 80 100 ◦Japan a. Realize a sustainable society 45.2 48.8 4.0 2.0 ◦600 persons ◦General population nationwide, men and women aged 15 or b. Provide safety, security, and comfort 48.5 42.9 6.8 1.8 older (people with a strong interest in the environment and CSR) c. Respect human rights and promote the active participation 43.3 46.7 8.0 2.0 [Main questions] of diverse human resources d. Strengthen corporate governance ◦Is senior management pursuing CSR initiatives in earnest? and compliance on a 47.1 44.7 6.2 2.0 continuous basis ◦Does the company have the framework that will allow it to implement CSR efforts as a total organization? Regarding Goal 7, Goal 11, and Goal 13 of the SDGs, ◦Are company initiatives truly moving forward? through what kind of products services and initiatives do you ◦Is the company engaging in dialogue with the relevant expect the Mitsubishi Electric Group to make contributions? parties in its orbit? ▶Expectations towards the Mitsubishi Electric ◦Does the company consider ease of comprehension and Group, including energy, resources, energy saving, access to information? home appliances, transport systems, and regional revitalization. ◦Please select all those items in the report that made a [Noteworthy comments] particular impression on you (e.g. evoked positive feelings, ・Making social contributions by leveraging the sparked interest, felt you could approve of it, etc.). Group’s diverse businesses and their strengths. (Male, 42 years old) ◦Are the Mitsubishi Electric Group's initiatives enough when ・Strengthening of electric vehicles and solar-systemit comes to crucial CSR issues? related products (Male, 42 years old) ・Provision of products and services that fuse new ◦Regarding Goal 7, Goal 11, and Goal 13 of the SDGs, energy with traditionally-made things (Male, 23 years old) through what kind of products, services and initiatives do you expect the Mitsubishi Electric Group to make ▶Expectations towards the Mitsubishi Electric Group, contributions? including disaster control measures, transport systems, aging measure, AI, buildings/houses/ *G oal 7: Affordable and clean energy, Goal 11: Sustainable elevators, regional revitalization, energy, security, cities and communities, Goal 13: Climate action waste recycling, and air conditioning. FY2019 Survey Summary and Partial Results̲1 [Noteworthy comments] ・Waste-free production (Male, 51 years old) ・Development of air conditioning systems that do not affect the environment and atmosphere (Male, Total rating Commitment Managerial determination 50 years old) ・Making contributions as a core member of a cross83.1/100 20.0 enterprise alliance, as a socially-aware infrastructure company (Male, 68 years old) 17.2 ・Provision of security as an infrastructure company in 15.0 Accessibility Management the age of frequent disasters (Female, 59 years old) Easy of understanding/ 10.0 CSR implementation access to data ▶Expectations towards the Mitsubishi Electric Group, 5.0 structure including disaster control measures, energy saving, 16.1 16.9 resource recycling, weather observation, AI, the IoT, air conditioning, building/houses, and the space. [Noteworthy comments] ・Making contributions by harnessing various technologies such as space and satellite Engagement Reliability technologies from a global perspective (Male, 44 16.6 16.3 Trust/impartiality years old) Dialogue with people of initiatives ・Developing disaster-free cities in anticipation of involved with our company drastic changes of climate (Male, 41 years old) ・Development of facilities that help solve social problems including global warming, through the construction of public buildings etc. (Female, 29 years old) 49 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social Interviews with Experts The Mitsubishi Electric Group held interviews with experts Development Goals (SDGs), ESG (environment, social and with extensive knowledge who play an active role in their governance) investment, and other such trends in Japan respective fields to hear their opinions on the Group’ s CSR and overseas. initiatives in light of the latest CSR trends. The interviews, In addition, comments from various people including which sought opinions about the Mitsubishi Electric students, the media, and CSR experts, were utilized in Group CSR Report 2018, mainly targeted the Mitsubishi the process of forming the Mitsubishi Electric Group’ s Electric Group’ s CSR materiality and the experts’ environmental vision. This page reports some of those expectations of the Group regarding the Sustainable comments. Opinions about the Mitsubishi Electric Group CSR Report 2018 Founder & Chief First Penguin Wong Lai Yong Field of specialization: CSR in Asia, community engagement, empowerment and provision of educational programs to youth and women (based in Malaysia) Opinions offered: It is very impressive that the provision of products and services that contribute to solving global social issues is firmly incorporated into the Mitsubishi Electric Group’ s CSR activities. The Group should be given credit for providing CSR training to local staff in the Asia region. Continued follow-up to spread the importance of CSR to overseas affiliates is needed. The Mitsubishi Electric Group advanced significantly by undertaking due diligence related to human rights including identifying and evaluating impact on human rights in all its offices in fiscal 2020. The Mitsubishi Electric Group should be given credit for setting its anti-bribe policy and educating 22,000 or more employees. I hope that such education will spread to all employees throughout the Group in the future. The Group should pay more attention to human rights issues across its supply chains. The focus of attention is on the wages and working conditions of the employees (immigrant workers in particular) of suppliers. I hope the number of women in managerial posts will be increased along with improving the malefemale ratio of engineer recruits. Director and Consultant InterPraxis Consulting David Simpson Field of specialization: International expert in sustainability who has led the development of the AA1000 stakeholder engagement standard and served as an expert member on the development of ISO 26000 and ISO 37001. Opinions offered: The report demonstrates good transparency, but it is too long and needs to better connect the company’s overall business strategy to its sustainability objectives – demonstrating that sustainability is more than just an add-on at MEG and that embedding social and environmental stewardship into its business model and supply chain also makes good business sense. The materiality process needs to be strengthened to establish greater focus on Mitsubishi Electric Groups’sustainability priorities and omit report details that are largely irrelevant to most stakeholders. The report should better present the specific sustainability risks for the Mitsubishi Electric Group and demonstrate how the Group’ s CSR activities are attempting to address and mitigate these risks. The report could benefit through an external assurance process based on an approach which would test the robustness of the materiality process as well as some of the underlying data. It is somewhat surprising that while MEG tracks issues such as if employees are getting enough rest at home, it does not publish statistics on overtime work or employee satisfaction which arguably may be more important to stakeholders. 50 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social Comments on the Process of Forming an Environmental Vision Senior Principal Research Division Daiwa Institute of Research Ltd. Co-CEO Japan Sustainable Investment Forum (JSIF) Mariko Kawaguchi Field of specialization: CSR as a whole, ESG Investment, and Ethical Consumption Opinions offered: To create innovation, it is important to develop human resources who can recognize a wide spectrum of social issues while being specialists in particular areas. If Mitsubishi Electric has a culture of contributing to solving a range of social issues while being a general electrical machinery company, this is a significant advantage. It should be publicized clearly. Although setting numerical targets for 2050 is difficult, I hope the Group’ s seriousness in making efforts will be displayed as concretely as possible. Active collaboration with various stakeholders is necessary when SDG issues cannot be solved singlehandedly. Opinions offered by students ⃝ In environmental initiatives, visualization is important. Even people with low environmental awareness will come to want to address environmental issues once they realize that such issues have something to do with themselves. ⃝ A global vision that people all around the world, not only in Japan, can understand is needed. Opinions offered by the media ⃝T  he Heart can be a positive attribute of an environmental vision. Concrete explanations that express the spirit of the executives with heart are required. ⃝ Actually showing an aspirational attitude that resonates with people is important. ⃝ An environmental vision should set high goals. Achieving high goals is not easy, but your company’ s spirit should be displayed. Opinions offered by a CSR consultant ⃝ I want the Group to create scenarios that realize both convenience and affluence and an environment that does not exclude either. ⃝T  he message of leading toward the future with heart and technology is important to convey the intension to younger generations. Environmental Sustainability Vision 2050 51 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social Dialogues with Experts From left to right, Mitsuharu Kiwada, Senior General Manager, Corporate Administration Division, Mitsubishi Electric Corporation, Shinji Harada, Managing Executive Officer, Mitsubishi Electric Corporation, Takeshi Sugiyama, President & CEO, Mitsubishi Electric Corporation, Mariko Kawaguchi, Senior Principal Research Division, Daiwa Institute of Research Ltd., Co-CEO, Japan Sustainable Investment Forum (JSIF), Takeshi Shimotaya, Managing Director, Sustainavision Ltd. (March, 2019) In March 2019, two experts were invited to the head office order to develop the activities further through successive to provide opinions about how the Mitsubishi Electric dialogues. The Mitsubishi Electric Group is organizing its Group is promoting CSR. This was the fourth such dialogue thoughts on the ideal company we strive to be toward this year. These dialogues are valuable opportunities fiscal 2021, the 100th anniversary of our foundation. This to hear the latest ESG and SDG trends from experts’ dialogue also plays an important role as a step in this perspectives and understand what society is expecting thought process. In-depth discussion was carried out from from the Mitsubishi Electric Group from an external an outside-in perspective to consider what our long-term perspective. Expert opinions have been reflected in the aims should be and what kind of company we should be, formation of a CSR promotion system and actual efforts in starting with social issues. Important Opinions and Suggestions Offered by Our Guest Experts Coexistence with diverse stakeholders through balanced management that highlights sustainability This is my fourth participation in the dialogue. Mitsubishi Electric Group always makes sure to address what was discussed in the previous fiscal year, thereby developing your initiatives. This helps me sense sincerity in your corporate culture and feel a sense of trust. As can be seen in the motto balanced management, your company practices a balanced business model. However, going forward, your company must determine what should be incorporated into the axis of that balance. International society is increasingly emphasizing the sustainability of organizations and business models rather than just growth in profit. your company should start by identifying what is optimal from customers’ , society’ s and stakeholders’perspectives on a midto long-term basis, instead of developing products and services that emphasize short-term profitability and efficiency. Even though the interests of stakeholders such as customers, employees, and business partners, do not always match those of the company in the short term, finding a balance Senior Principal between both sides is important for sustainable business. The SDGs aim at realizing a Research Division Daiwa Institute of Research Ltd. world that leaves no one behind. Companies are required to achieve the extremely high Co-CEO standards of creating their values while coexisting with diverse stakeholders, rather than Japan Sustainable Investment Forum (JSIF) just winning in the market. In other words, companies and business activities that can harmonize and coexist with society and the environment are sustainable. Mariko Kawaguchi In working toward the resolution of environmental and social issues, it is important to discuss SDG issues in both top-down and bottom-up manners. In a top-down approach, corporate executives must convincingly display what the company should do based on its resources. Even if goals appear at a glance too high to achieve, employees’ hard work to find a way to achieve them sometimes results in technological breakthrough. Conversely in a bottom-up approach, it is necessary to develop a system that enables employees to realize that the SDGs have something to do with them and provide opinions. Through workshops that discuss individual SDGs or other activities, this approach triggers employees to think about how to harness their technological capabilities in order to solve environmental and social issues and then take action. 52 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social Anticipating more focus on human-rights and environmental initiatives under clearly targeted long-term goals Businesses have up till now brought economic affluence. In recent years however, they have been regarded increasingly as entities that have a negative impact on the environment and society. Corporate contributions to achieving the SDGs must be recognized as the bare minimum to return such a negative situation to a zero base and action must be taken with the understanding that the SDGs must be achieved. In addition, the concept of net positive, which refers to business activities that have a positive impact on the environment and society, has emerged recently. Some companies have set the long-term vision of becoming a net-positive company by 2050. Going forward, companies are expected to set long-term visions and build ideal images into those visions in order to set milestones and advance in a back-casting manner. In Managing Director, Sustainavision Ltd. general, Japanese companies tend to consider goals to be something that must be achieved and avoid commitment. By contrast, international society, especially Europe, Takeshi Shimotaya emphasizes how companies clarify their directions by setting challenging and ambitious goals, not achievable and realistic goals. Under such goals, companies also aim at creating innovations in possible collaboration with other companies and related organizations. Also companies disclose any progress made toward their goals to stakeholders and if they fail to achieve, they explain the reasons and the measures that will be taken in the future. This leads to a positive relationship with its stakeholders. Regarding human rights compliance, respect for human rights has been growing worldwide since the United Nations published Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights in 2011. In undertaking various efforts including Mitsubishi Electric Group’s Policies on Respect for Human Rights established in 2017, your company should facilitate the idea of respecting human rights throughout the organization and the Group, and proceed to the next step while publishing information about activities. Business activities may have a profound impact on stakeholders’human rights; failure to address them poses a huge risk to the company. Human rights risks across the supply chains besides those in the company also need to be prioritized and addressed. Regarding the environment, understanding the essence of the circular economy and gaining competitive advantage are needed. There is a growing risk that battles for resources may occur due to a striking increase in the global population, which will inevitably necessitate both departing from conventional ideas and recycling waste as resources. In Europe, efforts on ocean plastic issues are being accelerated. I hope your company will start by addressing problems at hand, such as reducing single-use plastics, raise in-house awareness about effects on the global environment, and seek ideas from engineers, or unique initiatives that only a manufacturer can take. In response to the dialogues The Mitsubishi Electric Group’ s mission is to enhance the quality of life in our society and practicing it is our CSR and role that every employee should fulfill through their jobs. In today's dialogue, we received a variety of propositions about the SDGs, on which the Mitsubishi Electric Group also places a great deal of importance as a tool to connect CSR and business activities. We aim to contribute to meeting the 17 SDGs, that range from the global environment to human rights, in a way that only the Mitsubishi Electric Group can do. The top priority is for each and every employee to gain a better understanding of CSR and SDGs. We will improve employee training further so Executive Officer that they can be involved in concrete actions in their daily routines. Thank you Mitsubishi Electric Corporation very much for joining us today. Shinji Harada 53 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social Measures for Internal Dissemination The following initiatives have been implemented to ensure CSR has reached every part of our company. CSR Lectures for Executives Lecture presentations are held by experts who are asked Electric executives and members of the CSR Committee. to speak about changes in social perspectives and the These lectures are a good opportunity to reconfirm the latest industrial trends concerning CSR to Mitsubishi importance of CSR to the executives. CSR Lectures for executives (1) CSR Lectures for executives (2) Sharing of CSR Information in Conferences of Mitsubishi Electric Group Administrative Managers Twice a year, general managers of the administrative departments of affiliate companies in Japan gather in a conference to discuss compliance and other related matters. In response to the increasing importance of CSR in recent years, the conferences are now not only a forum for sharing information on Group-wide CSR policies and best practices related to CSR, but are also an opportunity for the managers to think about the significance of CSR to each company. Through these conferences, continued efforts will be made to raise the CSR level of the entire Group. Conference of administrative managers of Group companies CSR Training for New Employees Every year, CSR training is held for new employees of and to instill the importance of addressing quality and Mitsubishi Electric, to deepen their understanding of CSR environmental issues. The new employees learn that CSR as a basic foundation of corporate management, to ensure must be practiced by each employee in their daily duties. ethics and legal compliance in their daily operations, Implementing CSR Training for new employees (1) Implementing CSR Training for new employees (2) 54 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social CSR Manager Training Since fiscal 2017, Mitsubishi Electric has held training for greater awareness of their specific role as CSR managers CSR managers from the company’ s offices and affiliates in their daily operations. in Japan. Through lectures and group discussions on the In fiscal 2019, CSR training for all of Mitsubishi Electric’ s basic principles of CSR, social demands, and the Mitsubishi employees and affiliates in Japan was implemented via Electric Group's CSR initiatives, participants develop a e-learning to disseminate further understanding of CSR. © Mitsubishi Electric Corporation CSR Manager Training CSR e-learning Promoting Understanding of CSR through In-house Newsletters CSR CSR The Mitsubishi Electric Group's initiatives concerning 連載 CSR 企業理念と７つの行動指針の実践、 CSR CSR Based on Our Corporate Mission CSR are shared through in-house newsletters that are 第1回 それが三菱電機グループのCSRです Part 1 and Seven Guiding Principles The term Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) has become a buzzword. It refers to the practice of companies taking responsibility for how their distributed to Group companies both in Japan and 最近、CSR（Corporate Social Responsibility：企業の社会的 プでは、CSRを企業経営の基本と位置付け、 「企業理念」 と「7つ businesses affect communities. CSR is also defined as a way to address societal problems through business itself. Our basic CSR policy, which 責任） という言葉をよく耳にされませんか？ それは、企業が の行動指針」 をCSRの基本方針として推進しています。 is based on our Corporate Mission and Seven Guiding Principles, forms the very heart of our business. 利益を追求するだけでなく、企業活動が社会に与えるさまざ 今号から、CSRの考え方や活動事例を紹介します。皆さんも Starting with this issue, this column will spotlight our concept of CSR and introduce examples of our CSR initiatives. We hope you will take this まな影響に責任を持つことです。さらに事業を通じて社会が 「自身にとってのCSRとは何か」考える機会にしていただけれ as an opportunity to think about what CSR means to you. (CSR Office, Corporate Administration Division) overseas. They are published in Japanese and English 抱える課題の解決に取り組むことでもあります。当社グルー ばと思います。 （本総・CSR事務局） Message from Nobuyuki Okuma, Executive Officer in charge of CSR CSR担当役員 大隈Oメッセージ As time goes on, people are expecting more and more from the business community. Now that business has become more global than ever before, society is increasingly demanding that enterprises do more for the environ時代とともに、企業に対する社会の期待は一層高まり、 グローバル化の進展により、環境や人権な ment, human rights and other societal issues. As President and CEO Masaki Sakuyama often says, the Mitsubishi so they can be read by as many employees as possible, ど、企業への要求も変化しています。柵山Pが常々話されているように、当社グループではさまざま Electric Group contributes to society by offering solutions to these issues, and through many other types of な事業活動を通じて社会へ貢献しています。社会の課題の解決も含め、それらの活動は全て、社会 businesses, each serving as a way to fulfill social responsibility. The combined efforts of all employees constitute our への責任を果たすことでもあり、皆さん一人ひとりの活動が集まってグループ全体のCSRとなりま CSR contributions as a group. We are also expected to communicate our CSR initiatives to customers and the public through various channels, す。そして、それらの活動を、お客さまとのコミュニケーションやウェブ・テレビ・新聞などのメディア including the Internet, television, newspapers and more. を通して伝えていくことも求められています。社会からきちんと評価され、必要とされる企業であり To make sure that communities understand and appreciate our efforts, and continue to perceive the Mitsubishi and they provide a valuable opportunity for each and 続けるために、CSRへの思いを皆で共有・実践していきましょう。 Electric Group as a vital company, we need to put our hearts and minds into the practice of CSR. さまざまなステークホルダーの期待に応えていかねばなりません Many stakeholders to consider every employee to think about the corporate social そもそもCSRってどういうこと？ What is CSR? Shareholders 株主 顧客 Customers Enterprises can generate positive impacts 従業員 through their businesses, beginning with the Employees 企業活動を行うと、社会に商品・サービスを products and services they oﬀer to society. responsibility of the Group as a whole. 提供するなどのプラス効果と、CO₂排出量増加などの However, such activities can also generate マイナス効果があるんだ。 CSRとは、さまざまなステークホルダー(右図)からの 三菱電機 行政 negative impacts, such as CO₂ emissions. Mitsubishi Government agencies 地域社会 グループ CSR is the way that enterprises work to meet the expectations of their stakeholders Local communities Electric 期待や要求に応え、プラス効果を増やし マイナス効果を減らしていくように (see chart on right) by increasing Group 心がけることだよ。 positive impacts while decreasing negative impacts. The practice of CSRの実践は、世の中に必要な企業として 取引先 NGO・NPO など CSR is crucial if we want people to Business NGOs and あり続けるために重要なことなんだ。 partners NPOs keep thinking of us as a vital enterprise. ステークホルダーとは、企業に影響を与えたり、企業の影響を受けたりする利害関係者です。 The term stakeholder is defined as any party with an interest in our business, including parties that affect, or are affected by, Mitsubishi Electric. なぜCSRが話題になっているの？ Why are people talking CSRを意識しないとどうなるの？ about CSR so much now? What if we ignored CSR? グローバル化やネット社会の進展で、 Society has become more global and more Enterprises have to ensure that their businesses go これまで以上に、安全・安心、環境や より良い企業であるためには、環境や人権などに connected, so people are increasingly scrutinizing hand in hand with the environment and human rights, 人権の問題といった社会の課題解決に向けた 配慮して事業を進める必要があるんだ。 how enterprises address the environment, human or they could face the risk of lawsuits or boycotts, 企業の取り組みが注目されるようになったんだ。 そうしないと訴訟や不買運動など経営に大きな rights and other issues in society. This is why either of which could have grave repercussions for a だから、当社グループも、2014年4月に the Mitsubishi Electric Group formed the CSR business. Meanwhile, enterprises that actively pursue 影響が出る場合もあるんだよ。 CSR委員会を設置し、CSRのレベルアップと Committee in April 2014. It also is why we are CSR can earn greater trust among 一方で、CSRに積極的に取り組むと、 working so hard to strengthen our CSR program 情報発信の充実に取り組んでいるよ。 stakeholders and strengthen their brand 企業としての信頼が高まったり、ブランド and inform people about our many socially images. Given these compelling reasons, 当社グループの具体的な活動事例を イメージの向上につながることもあるよ。 minded activities. For example, our CSR it s clear that we need to work as hard 知ってもらうため、ウェブサイトなどを だから、皆で一緒にCSRに取り組んでいこう。 website is now providing stakeholders with as we can on CSR. 通じて、これからもどんどん世の中に more concrete cases of our socially responsible 紹介していくよ。 activities worldwide. ■今後、「つなぐ、つながる」 コーナーでCSRを取り上げていきます。次回は「CSRの７つの中核主題」を紹介します。 ■In future issues of this publication, Philanthropy Square will address a number of important CSR topics, beginning with The Seven Core Themes of CSR in the next installment. 三菱電機オフィシャルウェブサイト「CSRの取組」http://www.MitsubishiElectric.co.jp/corporate/csr/ Please visit www.MitsubishiElectric.com/company/csr vol.175 Nov.2015 MELCO PLUS vol.009 Nov.2015 Promoting understanding of CSR through in-house newsletters CSR Considerations in Overseas Affiliates Overseas affiliates of the Mitsubishi Electric Group also hold committees for promoting CSR and otherwise implement activities as needed for each region. In fiscal 2019, particular efforts were made to disseminate Group-wide CSR policies overseas. For example, CSR was widely introduced in training programs for staff members of affiliates in the Asia region and programs for overseas management executives. Additionally, the company exchanged views on CSR issues and Group-wide CSR policies with managers of individual regions. Exchange of views with overseas managers 55 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social Corporate Governance Basic Corporate Governance Policy While maintaining the flexibility of its operations and policy is to build and improve a corporate structure that is promoting management transparency, Mitsubishi Electric, more able to meet the expectations of society, customers, as a Company with Three-committee System, works to shareholders, employees and all of its stakeholders while strengthen the supervisory functions of management with endeavoring to further increase corporate value. the goal of realizing sustained growth. Our fundamental IR Library Corporate Management and Governance Structure Corporate Management Structure In June 2003, Mitsubishi Electric became a Company matters listed in the items of paragraphs 1 and 4 of Article with Three-committee System. Key to this structure is the 416 of the Companies Act. separation of supervisory and executive functions; the The Board of Directors has three internal bodies: the Board of Directors plays a supervisory decision-making Nomination, Audit and Compensation Committees. Each role and Executive Officers handle the day-to-day running body has five members, the majority of whom are Outside of the Company. Directors, who are chosen by the Board of Directors A salient characteristic of Mitsubishi Electric’ s taking into account the experience and specialties of each management structure is that the roles of Chairman of person. Each Committee undertakes its duties based on the Board, who heads the supervisory function, and the the objectives and authority of the Companies Act. President & CEO, who is head of all Executive Officers, are The bureaus have been established for the Board clearly separated. of Directors and each of the Committees to support Additionally, neither is included among the members directors. The Audit Committee is supported by dedicated of the Nomination and Compensation Committees. The independent staff. clear division of supervisory and executive functions Executive Officers make decisions about the execution allows the Company to ensure effective corporate of operations on matters delegated by the Board of governance. Directors within the range of duties allocated to each The present Board of Directors is comprised of twelve Executive Officers based on the objectives and authority members (five of whom are Outside Directors, one of of the Companies Act, and then execute such operations. whom is a woman), who objectively supervise and advise Important items among such matters delegated by the the Company’ s management by executing their duties Board of Directors are deliberated and decided upon in based on the objectives and authority of the Companies Executive Officers’meetings attended by all Executive Act, as well as by delegating to Executive Officers the Officers. decision authority for executing all operations, except the General Shareholders’ Meeting Report Appointment Report Decision Making and Execution Supervision Executive Officers Board of Directors Appointment/ President & CEO Chairman Dismissal/ Supervision/ Executive Vice Delegating Nomination Committee Presidents the decision Outside Directors authority for (majority) executing Senior Vice Presidents all operations Audit Committee Directors Outside Directors Executive Officers Report (majority) Compensation Committee Outside Directors Business/Administration (majority) Divisions Corporate governance framework 56 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social Internal Control System （A） .F or the execution of the duties of the Audit （B） . Internal regulations and systems to ensure the Committee, its independence is secured by assigning properness of operations within the Mitsubishi employees whose job is exclusively to assist the Electric Group are established. Executive Officers take Audit Committee members. In addition, internal responsibility for constructing such systems within regulations regarding the processing of expenses and the areas over which they are appointed. Important debts incurred in the execution of the duties of the matters are deliberated by convening Executive Audit Committee members are established and such Officer meetings. expenses and debts are properly processed. Executive Officers regularly monitor the status of A system for reporting to the Audit Committee is management of the systems. The divisions in charge developed to report information about the Company of internal control monitor the status of design and its subsidiaries to the Audit Committee via the and management of internal control system and divisions in charge of internal control, and an internal regulations. Also an internal whistle-blower system whistle-blower system is developed and its details are is established and the matters reported thereto are reported to the Audit Committee members. informed to the Audit Committee members. Furthermore, the Audit Committee members Furthermore, the status of management of the attend important meetings including Executive system is audited by internal auditors, and the audit Officer meetings and conduct investigations such as results are reported regularly to the Audit Committee interviews with Executive Officer and the executives of via Executive Officers in charge of audit. the Company’ s offices and subsidiaries, and undertake deliberations to determine audit policies, methods, implementation status, and results of the audit by regularly receiving reports from the Independent Auditor and Executive Officers in charge of audits. Audit Committee The Audit Committee is made up of five directors, three information and discuss policies. In addition, the Audit of whom are Outside Directors. In accordance with the Committee discusses policies and methods of auditing policies and assignments agreed upon by the Committee, with accounting auditors, who furnish it with reports on committee membersmainly those from the Audit the status and results of the audits of the Company that Committee responsible for investigationattend Executive they themselves conduct. Officers’meetings and other such important conferences, Akihiro Matsuyama, Chairman of the Audit Committee, and conduct hearings and surveys of Executive Officers and Masahiko Sagawa, a member of the Audit Committee, and the executive staff of Mitsubishi Electric offices and have long years of experience in the accounting and affiliated companies. financial operations of the Company. Kazunori Watanabe, Divisions in charge of internal control including a member of the Audit Committee, is a Certified Public the Corporate Auditing Division through a responsible Accountant and has a considerable degree of knowledge Executive Officer, submit reports to the Audit Committee, about finance and accounting. which holds periodic report meetings to exchange Status of Internal Audit Internal audit is intended to contribute to the sound Mitsubishi Electric’ s Corporate Auditing Division conducts management and strengthened management structure internal audits of the Company from a fair and impartial of Mitsubishi Electric and its affiliated companies in standpoint. In addition, the division’ s activities are Japan and overseas by improving management efficiency, supported by auditors with extensive knowledge of their strengthening risk management, thoroughly observing the particular fields, assigned from relevant business units. code of corporate ethics and ensuring compliance, and Through an Executive Officer in charge of auditing, the enhancing internal control. Corporate Auditing Division regularly reports the results of With approximately 40 members acting independently, such audits to the Audit Committee. 57 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social Providing Directors with Appropriate Information at the Appropriate Time, and Conducting Reviews of the Board with Analyses and Evaluations To strengthen the Board's capacity to supervise the ◦O  ther mechanisms for improving the functioning of the Company's management, the bureaus of the Board of Board of Directors Directors and each committee provide the directors with ◦ Points for improvement of policies based on previous the information necessary for supervising management, in reviews of the Board of Directors a timely and appropriate manner. And, to further improve ◦ Opinions about and points for improvement in the the Board of Directors' capacity to supervise management, method for reviewing the Board of Directors, etc. venues have been established for supplying information to and exchanging views with Outside Directors, and the As a result of the Board of Directors review, the Company is working to further enhance the provision of Board of Directors was evaluated as making ongoing management-related information to the Board of Directors and effective improvements in response to the results of itself. annual reviews, and achieving even better results every Additionally, in order to further enhance the functioning time with respect to sharing timely and appropriate of the Board of Directors, the Board meetings are reviewed management information with Executive Officers, which on an annual basis, and analyses and evaluations are is essential for the Board to properly fulfill its business conducted in the following areas. supervisory function. This evaluation in effect endorses the performance of ◦ Frequency, scheduling, and time spent on the meetings the Board of Directors, but going forward further efforts ◦ The information supplied in relation to discussions at will be made to improve the performance of the Board of the meetings (quality and quantity) and the method of Directors by enhancing the opportunities for exchanging its provision opinions between the supervisory side and executive side ◦ Materials, details and methods of explanation, and improving the management of the Board of Directors question-and-answer guidelines, time apportioned for review through conducting individual interviews regarding each proposal on the meetings review results and expanding time for opinion exchange. Policies Regarding Decisions on Compensation, etc. 1. Basic policy (1) A  s a Company with a Three-committee System, the 1) C ompensation for the improvement of business Company has separate functions for the supervision performance over the midto long-term, and that and execution of business, with the Board of Directors increases awareness regarding contributing to undertaking the business supervisory function, and increased corporate value Executive Officers, the business execution function. 2) Compensation that is closely linked to the Accordingly, Directors and Executive Officers have Company’ s performance and highly transparent separate compensation schemes according to the and objective content and responsibilities of their duties. 3) Compensation focused on sharing profits with shareholders and increasing awareness of (2) D  irectors give advice to and supervise the Company’ s management that gives weight to shareholder management from an objective point of view, and benefits therefore, the compensation scheme for Directors is the payment of fixed-amount compensation and the (4) In order to introduce an objective perspective from payment of a retirement benefit upon resignation. outside the Company and expert knowledge about the Directors’and Executive Officers’compensation (3) T  he compensation scheme for the Executive scheme, the Company will hire an external Officers focuses on incentives for the realization of remuneration consultant, and with the support of management policies and the improvement of business the consultant it will consider the compensation performance, and performance-based compensation levels and compensation schemes by taking into will be paid in addition to the payment of fixedaccount external data on the compensation of major amount compensation and a retirement benefit upon companies in Japan operating globally, domestic resignation. The basic policies of such performanceeconomic environment, industry trends, and the based compensation are as follows: Company’ s conditions, etc. 58 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social 2. C ompensation scheme for Directors and Executive Officers and policies regarding decisions on compensation, etc. (1) Compensation scheme for Directors of the payment base amount while taking 1) Directors will receive their compensation as a into account the performance of the business fixed amount, and the compensation to be paid to which the respective Executive Officer is will be set at a level considered reasonable, while assigned, etc. taking into account the contents of the Directors’ ◦ With the purposes of meshing the interests duties and the Company’ s conditions, etc. of shareholders with the Executive Officers 2) Directors will receive the retirement benefit upon and further raising management awareness resignation, and the retire-ment benefit to be paid that places importance on the interest of will be set at a level decided on the basis of the shareholders, and increasing the incentives for monthly amount of compensation and the number the improvement of business performance from of service years, etc. the midand long-term perspectives, 50% of performance-based compensation will be paid (2) Compensation scheme for Executive Officers in the form of shares. 1) Fixed-amount compensation will be set at a level The Company sets a rule that, for the considered reasonable taking into account the compensation paid in the form of shares, the contents of the Executive Officers’duties and the Company shares will be issued after a threeCompany's conditions, etc. year waiting period. In addition, the shares are 2) Performance-based compensation will be as required to continue holding the shares until 1 follows: year has passed from resignation. ◦ The Mitsubishi Electric Group has been 3) The amount of the retirement benefit will be pursuing sustainable growth by maintaining decided on the basis of the monthly amount of Balanced Corporate Management based on compensation and the number of service years, three perspectives: growth, profitability and etc. efficiency, and soundness. In line with its efforts to further increase corporate value, the Group (3) Decision-making process, etc. has set its growth targets for fiscal 2021 as Policies regarding decisions on compensation, etc. consolidated net sales of ¥5.0 trillion or more, of Directors and Executive Officers and individual and an operating income ratio of 8% or more. compensation details based on the policies will be The payment base amount for performancemade through resolutions by the Compensation based compensation will be determined based Committee, which the majority of the members are on the consolidated business performance (Net Outside Directors. The details of activities of the profit attributable to Mitsubishi Electric Corp. Compensation Committee will be reported to the stockholders) while taking into account the Board of Directors each time an activity is performed. Group’ s management policy and targets. Annual securities report (Only in Japanese) ◦ The payment amount of each Executive Officer will be determined within the range of ±20% Outside Directors Outside Directors The Company has five Outside Directors, each of whom abundant experience. Those who are comprehensively has no special interest with the Company. Although judged to possess the character, acumen, and business companies in which each of the Outside Directors holds and professional experience suited to fulfill that role, office in or has been a director or officer of include those and who satisfy the requirements of independent with trading relationships with the Company, no such executives specified by the Tokyo Stock Exchange and the relationships have an impact on the independence of each requirements specified in Mitsubishi Electric’ s Guidelines on relevant Outside Directors based on the scale or nature of the Independence of Outside Directors (see note at below) such trading, and thus they possess no risk of giving rise to and thus possess no risk of giving rise to any conflict of any conflict of interest with the general shareholders of the interest with the general shareholders of the Company, are Company. selected as Outside Director candidates by the Nomination Outside Directors are expected to supervise Committee. management from a high-level perspective based on their 59 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social ＜Independency Guideline for Outside Directors＞ Mitsubishi Electric Corporation nominates persons with experience in company management in the business world, attorneys and academics, among other specialists, who are appropriate to oversee the Company's business operations and not falling under any of the following cases, as candidates for Outside Directors. Each of the following 1), 2), 4) and 5) includes a case in any fiscal year during the past three fiscal years. 1. Persons who serve as Executive Directors, Executive Officers, managers or other employees (hereinafter business executers ) at a company whose amount of transactions with the Company accounts for more than 2% of the consolidated sales of the Company or the counterparty 2. Persons who serve as business executers at a company to which the Company has borrowings that exceed 2% of the consolidated total assets 3. Persons who are related parties of the Company's independent auditor 4. Persons who receive more than ¥10 million of compensation from the Company as specialists or consultants 5. Persons who serve as Executive Officers (Directors, etc.) of an organization to which the Company offers contribution that exceeds ¥10 million and 2% of the total revenue of the organization 6. Persons who are the Company's major shareholders (holding more than 10% of voting rights) or who serve as their business executers 7. Persons who are related parties of a person or company that have material conflict of interest with the Company In addition, Outside Directors enhance the checking comments regarding Mitsubishi Electric’ s management function of management by receiving reports about the from an objective perspective. By doing this, they bring activity status of internal auditors, the Audit Committee, greater transparency to the management framework and accounting auditors, and divisions in charge of internal strengthen the Board's function of supervising management. control via the Board of Directors, and providing valuable Outside Directors (as of June 27, 2019) Name, Positions Board Attendance Title Reasons for Nomination Picture Held Rate (FY2019) Mr. Yabunaka's experience and insights as an Member of the Nomination expert in international affairs cultivated through the course of a career are highly beneficial to 100% Outside Committee Mitsubishi Electric. (Seven out of Director Member of the Mitsubishi Electric thus expects him to bring an seven meetings) Compensation objective viewpoint to the overseeing of the Committee Mitoji Yabunaka Company's business operations. Chairman of Mr. Obayashi's experience and insights cultivated the Nomination through the course of a career as a lawyer (public 100% Outside Committee prosecutor, attorney-at-law) are highly beneficial (Seven out of Director Member of to Mitsubishi Electric. Mitsubishi Electric thus expects him to bring an objective viewpoint to the seven meetings) the Audit Committee overseeing of the Company's business operations. Hiroshi Obayashi Mr. Watanabe's experience and insights as a Member of the Audit certified public accountant cultivated over the course of his career are highly beneficial to 100% Outside Committee Mitsubishi Electric. (Seven out of Director Member of the Mitsubishi Electric thus expects him to bring an seven meetings) Compensation objective viewpoint to the overseeing of the Committee Kazunori Watanabe Company's business operations. Ms. Koide's experience and insights as a business Member of the Nomination specialist cultivated over the course of her career in international corporate management are highly 100% Outside Committee beneficial to Mitsubishi Electric. (Seven out of Director Member of the Mitsubishi Electric thus expects her to bring an seven meetings) Compensation objective viewpoint to the overseeing of the Committee Hiroko Koide Company's business operations. Member of the Mr. Oyamada's experience and insights as a Nomination business specialist cultivated over the course of his Outside Committee career in bank management are highly beneficial — Director Member of to Mitsubishi Electric. Mitsubishi Electric thus the Audit expects him to bring an objective viewpoint to the Committee oversight of the Company's business operations. Takashi Oyamada Note Mitsubishi Electric Corporation held seven Board of Directors meetings during fiscal 2019. 60 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social Compliance Message from Top Management / Our Concept of Compliance Message from Top Managemen The Mitsubishi Electric Group regards ethics and of its efforts to establish even stronger relationships of compliance as the foundation of corporate management, trust with society, customers, and stakeholders. and issues the following message to all employees as part The operating environment continues to undergo dramatic changes. What must continue regardless of how the times may change is respect for corporate ethics and compliance. Mitsubishi Electric Group formulated the Mitsubishi Electric Group Corporate Ethics and Compliance Statement as our basic guideline for compliance, pledging to society that We will never establish a target, nor make a commitment, that could only be achieved with conduct that would violate applicable laws or business ethics or practices. Looking toward the upcoming 100th anniversary of our foundation and even the next 100-year milestone, in order to continue to be a corporate group which earns the confidence of society and our customer, I request each and every one of you to be aware again that adherence to ethics and compliance forms the basis for the company to remain in business. President & CEO And you must always remember that each and every one of you has a responsibility to ensure that as a good corporate citizen we conduct our business in compliance with applicable laws and high ethical standards in all endeavors: you should have pride in our high level of business ethics. Takeshi Sugiyama Our Concept of Compliance With the Mitsubishi Electric Group Corporate Ethics Based on this awareness, we are attempting to perfect and Compliance Statement formulated in 2001 as our a compliance system which promotes compliance in basic guideline for compliance, the Mitsubishi Electric the broadest sense, encompassing the perspective Group recognizes the importance of ethics and absolute of corporate ethics, rather than merely focusing on compliance with legal requirements as a fundamental following the letter of the law. At the same time, we are precondition for the Group's continued existence. working to educate our employees in this area. The Corporate Ethics and Compliance Statement We will conduct ourselves always in compliance with applicable laws and with a high degree of Compliance with sensitivity to changes in social ethics or local practices. We will never establish a target, nor make a the Law commitment, that can only be achieved with conduct that would violate applicable laws or business ethics or practices. We will conduct ourselves always with a respect for human rights. We will not discriminate based Respect for on nationality, race, religion, gender. disability, or any other reason prohibited by applicable laws nor Human Rights will we violate international laws providing protection for individual and human rights or any treaties providing such protection to which the country where any of our companies is located is a party. Concurrently with the pursuit of a reasonable profit, we will conduct ourselves always with an Contributing to awareness of our corporate social responsibility in order to further the progress of society as a Society whole. Collaboration and As a good corporate citizen and neighbor, we will support civic and charitable organizations and Harmonization activities in the communities where we reside or work that in our view contribute to community with the Community development. Consideration of As part of our goal to achieve a recycling-oriented society, we will pay attention to and respect the Environmental global environment in every aspect of our business. Issues We will conduct ourselves with the highest integrity, making a proper distinction between public Awareness of and private matters, and we will use company resources-including money, time, and informationPersonal Integrity for legitimate business purposes. We will use company computers and various networks and online services. including e-mail and Internet access, primarily for company business. 61 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Group Conduct Guidelines Mitsubishi Electric Group Conduct Guidelines is a based on revisions of relevant laws and regulations, uniform code of conduct in which laws and regulations changes to people's perceptions of social norms and and social norms to be complied with and respected by other relevant factors. The version presented here is the each employee of Mitsubishi Electric Group in executing most recent revision, published in April 2017. company business and performing his/her duties are put In addition to the Japanese language, the Code of together and summarized, and is intended to serve as Conduct is published in English, Chinese, and Thai, and guidelines for our day-to-day conduct. offers identical content for each country and region in These Guidelines were first established in 1990, and which we operate, presenting norms to which every became what they are now through multiple revisions Mitsubishi Electric Group employee should conform. System to Ensure thorough Implementation of Compliance at the Global Level Based on recognition that the promotion of our business divisions and affiliates in Japan and overseas compliance is inseparably linked with business promotion, take the initiative in promoting compliance. the Mitsubishipromotion Compliance Electric Group's structurescompliance system (Mitsubishi Electrichas Group) Associated companies in Japan Mitsubishi Electric Corporation Associated companies outside of Japan President Executive Officers Meeting Corporate Compliance Committee Legal and regulatory management divisions Regional Chief Compliance Officer Group Compliance President President President Promotion Committee Group Compliance Group Compliance General Manager Regional General Manager Corporate Conference Compliance Group Vice President, Compliance Managers Corporate Compliance Corporate Compliance head of site Officer Conference Officers Conference Officer Compliance Compliance Managers Head of Manager Conference each division Head of Department each division Senior Manager Compliance Leader Compliance Manager Section Manager Operation site Business unit, branch office, manufacturing site, research center Site-Specific Compliance Compliance Information Compliance Promotion Compliance Information Promotion Committe Liaison Conference Committee Liaison Conference Mitsubishi Electric Group compliance promotion structures 62 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social Meeting of compliance managers in the Asia region Working-level conference on compliance in the China region VOICE (In charge of compliance in the US) Assistant General Counsel, Legal Department, Mitsubishi Electric US, Inc. Maria O'Leary I am a member of the Americas Corporate Office Legal Department and support legal compliance activities of the Mitsubishi Electric Group companies in the Americas. In Mexico and Latin America, I work with MELCO Group companies in developing their own legal compliance program tailored to their company’ s business and national regulations as well as international standards. I advise the companies on development of compliance policies, implementation of employee training programs, and other compliance program activities. I am proud to be a member of a global company with an unwavering commitment to legal compliance in all areas of its business. I wish to offer legal support and resources to the MELCO Group companies in the Americas region to amplify and broaden their compliance programs and processes to meet the challenges of tomorrow’ s world. Initiatives against Major Compliance Risks Fair Competition (Preventing the Violation of Anti-trust Laws) The Mitsubishi Electric Group deeply regrets its experience Practical training that reflects the characteristics of each of having received an administrative penalty for violating business was conducted a total of 91 times in Mitsubishi anti-trust laws in Japan and overseas. Out of this regret, we Electric and its domestic affiliates between fiscal 2016 uphold anti-trust laws as one of the most important laws and fiscal 2018, with 3,549 participants. Additionally, we that we must abide by, and make ongoing Group-wide provide education on anti-trust laws that focus on regional efforts to both prevent any recurrence of such incidents characteristics to overseas employees in the combined and prevent previous incidents from being forgotten. In form of e-learning programs and face-to-face education. addition to formulating and operating internal regulations We will continue to make greater efforts to prevent that govern Mitsubishi Electric and its affiliated companies similar incidents from occurring and previous incidents in Japan and overseas, we have also strengthened from being forgotten, through regular monitoring of the internal audits that specialize in anti-trust laws, and place status of daily business activities and internal regulations, importance on employee training through a combination of practical employee training that matches actual transaction e-learning and classroom programs. situations, and other such initiatives. 63 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social Corruption Prevention (Preventing Bribery) We engage in Group-wide initiatives to prevent bribery. interactions with public officials inside and outside the The Mitsubishi Electric Group Anti-Bribery Policy that country as a measure to prevent bribery. was established on April 1, 2017 reiterates to people In addition, we provide education to employees who in and outside the Group our policy that, among other regularly interact with public officials in the combined things, our Group companies, their officers and employees form of e-learning programs and face-to-face education do not offer bribes and do not pursue profits that can be (fiscal 2019: 24,056 participants). realized only by offering bribes. In the light of the current global situation where antibribery regulations are becoming increasingly tighter, English version we will continue to enhance measures in each region, Chinese version and take effective and efficient measures by selecting countries and transactions with particularly high risks of Furthermore, we are conducting monitoring activities being involved in bribery, to respond to the expansion of such as maintaining and enacting internal regulations for our business at a global level. Support and Responses to Political Activities The Mitsubishi Electric Group provides support to political Division screens all cases in detail in accordance with the activities only upon full consideration of its social standing Political Fund Control Law, and ensures adherence to all as defined in its corporate mission, and in compliance internal procedures. Additionally, in public elections, we with relevant laws and regulations in each country. make every effort neither to infringe on the Public Offices For example, when Mitsubishi Electric makes a Election Act nor deviate from sound social morals. political donation in Japan, the Corporate Administration Export Control To maintain international peace and security, Mitsubishi and Thai) to all affiliated companies, and provide guidance Electric has established and abides by the Corporate for the establishment of regulations, the development of a Security Export Control Regulation. Based on the framework, employee training and internal audits in each regulation, all transactions are closely checked for company. In fiscal 2019, we held educational workshops any inclusion of export controlled items and security in India, Thailand and Europe, intended for ECAs (Export concerns related to destination, customers, end-use, and Control Administrators) in affiliated companies. In Japan, transaction conditions, and are strictly managed pursuant we provided e-learning courses that 36,578 Mitsubishi to relevant laws and regulations. Furthermore, to ensure Electric employees and 32,859 employees of affiliated all affiliated companies in Japan and overseas also take companies took. For overseas affiliated companies, we proper action in line with our policies, we distribute have English, Chinese, and Thai e-learning materials for the Security Export Control Standard Regulations of the the implementation of training programs in each company. Mitsubishi Electric Group (in Japanese, English, Chinese, 64 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social Disassociation with Anti-social Groups The Mitsubishi Electric Group adheres to the policy to an anti-social group, even if the transaction with the of refusing transactions and any other relationship partner has already begun. whatsoever with anti-social groups (crime syndicates, terrorists, drug syndicates and other criminal Furthermore, in Japan an officer for preventing organizations) in countries and regions where it engages unreasonable demands, as stipulated in the Antiin business, as clearly set forth in the following three Organized Crime Law, is assigned to each business office provisions in the Mitsubishi Electric Group Conduct and affiliated company as a Group-wide measure against Guidelines. unreasonable demands from anti-social groups. If a 1. We will not have any relationship with anti-social groups, transaction partner is found to be an anti-social group, and will deal with such groups with a firm attitude. we make every effort to promptly disassociate ourselves 2. When engaging in a new transaction, we will make with the company with the cooperation of the police, certain that the transaction partner is not related in any external specialist institutions (the National Center for way to an anti-social group. the Elimination of Boryokudan and the Special Violence 3. Transaction contracts shall include an article on the Prevention Measures Association (Tokubouren) under elimination of crime syndicates and other anti-social the control of the Metropolitan Police Department, the groups, and provide for the termination of the contract National Center for the Elimination of Boryokudan, etc.), in the event a transaction partner is found to be related and lawyers. Thorough Dissemination/Education of Our Compliance Policy Ensuring that Employees are Familiar with Our Compliance Policy The top management of the Mitsubishi Electric Group, distribute cards printed with the Statement to each of our including the President, takes every opportunity to directly employees. address employees on the subject of compliance in a We distribute the Mitsubishi Electric Group Conduct diverse range of situations, ensuring that an awareness of Guidelines to all Mitsubishi Electric Group employees, the importance of compliance and our stance on it takes including overseas employees. Employees in Japan root throughout our organization. receive a booklet containing the conduct guidelines, To raise awareness even further, we also display which summarizes points that employees should be posters of the Mitsubishi Electric Group Corporate aware of in relation to compliance as they conduct their Ethics and Compliance Statement in our workplaces and work duties. 企業倫理 遵法宣言 私たちは、活動するいかなる国や地域においても、 常に以下に宣言するところに則って行動します。 法の遵守 法は最低限の道徳であることを認識し、法の遵守はもちろん、 社会全体の倫理観や社会常識の変化に対する鋭敏な感性を 常に持ち、行動します。 法、社会倫理、あるいは社会常識にもとる行為をしなければ 達成できない目標の設定やコミットメントはしません。 人権の尊重 常に人権を尊重した行動をとり、国籍、人種、宗教、性別等 いかなる差別も行いません。 社会への貢献 企業としての適正利潤を追求するとともに、社会全体の発展を 支えるとの気概を持ち、企業の社会的責任を自覚して行動します。 地域との協調・融和 良き市民、良き隣人として、ボランティア活動等地域社会の 諸行事に積極的に参加し、地域の発展に貢献します。 環境問題への取組み 循環型社会の形成を目指し、資源の再利用をはじめ、あらゆる 事業活動において、いつも環境への配慮を忘れずに仕事を進め Portable Card ます。 企業人としての自覚 企業人としての自覚を持ち、自らの扱う金銭等の財産、時間、 Mitsubishi Electric Corporate Ethics and Group Conduct 情報等（特に電子メールやインターネットの利用）に対し、 公私を厳しく峻別し行動します。 Compliance Statement Poster Guidelines Booklet 企業行動規範委員会 English version Simplified Chinese version Traditional Chinese version Thai version 65 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social Compliance Education by Diverse Means The Mitsubishi Electric Group works to ensure that rights, and the Group's concept of compliance, through employees are aware of the Group's concept of e-learning programs, group lessons, distance learning compliance and of the laws that are essential to the or other such methods. In fiscal 2019, as many as conduct of our business activities, using a variety of tools 127,300 employees in Japan (employees of Mitsubishi including workshops, e-learning programs, the distribution Electric and affiliated companies in Japan) participated of manuals, and screen displays when employees log in. in such programs (100% participation in complianceIn using these tools, we carefully consider and provide the related e-learning programs by Mitsubishi Electric alone). optimum content for different businesses, job levels, job Overseas as well, some 6,815 employees have taken part categories, and regions (overseas). in compliance-related e-learning programs that have been In addition to educational activities conducted uniformly implemented in the Southeast Asia and Oceania independently by each of the Group's affiliated companies regions, for example. and business divisions, we also carry out Group-wide In fiscal 2019, Mitsubishi Electric’ s Corporate Legal & educational initiatives. Employees in all countries in Compliance Division conducted 240 compliance-related which we operate take part in an educational program workshops within the Group, in which a cumulative total concerning the major relevant laws, respect for human of 9,071 people participated. Compliance Audits To verify the state of compliance in the Mitsubishi Electric Mitsubishi Electric conducts internal audits to check Group, the internal departments in each of the affiliated the operational effectiveness of these regulations and companies in the Group carries out self-inspection several systems (in the audit areas of ethics and legal compliance, times a year by various means. The inspection utilizes accounting and finance, human resources, technology various tools, including specific check sheets for the areas management and quality management). If an audit reveals of corporate ethics and legal compliance. Corrective action the need for improvement, the relevant company or is taken as necessary in response to the result of such selfdepartment will receive instructions for remediation/ inspection. improvement. Periodical reports of audit are presented Additionally, internal regulations and systems are in before the audit committee through the executive officer in place to ensure proper operations across the Mitsubishi charge of internal audits. Electric Group. The Corporate Auditing Division of Establishment of Internal and External Ethics and Legal Compliance Hotlines Mitsubishi Electric has put in place ethics and legal rules is detected, the concerned employee is subject to compliance hotlines (internal notification system, sodisciplinary action, and if any organized involvement in the called whistle blowing system ), with the objective of detected incident is found, remediation is demanded of promptly addressing fraudulent, illegal, and anti-ethical the concerned department. conducts as a self-disciplinary mechanism. This function The detailed functions of these ethics and legal is available through two notification channels, inside and compliance hotlines are provided in the booklet outside the company. The outside channel is managed distributed to all employees for dissemination of by independent law firms. The hotlines are operated Mitsubishi Electric Group Conduct Guidelines. These pursuant to clearly defined internal regulations that detailed functions also appear on posters displayed ensure responses to anonymous informants, elimination in each workplace (each department and operating of disadvantageous treatment of informants, and the base), on the handheld confidentiality of all informants. Notifications are also cards containing the contact accepted from business partners and companies, if it information of internal and pertains to issues that arise out of their relationship with external contact points that are Mitsubishi Electric, including but not limited to business distributed to all employees, transactions. and on the Group website, to Alleged issues of each notification are examined by a ensure that we communicate group composed ad hoc of members from departments them to all employees. capable of conducting investigation, depending on the The internal notification nature of the notification. In case an alleged issue casts system is also in place in doubt on compliance with pertinent laws and/or internal each affiliated company of the rules, efforts are made to reinforce the prevalence of Mitsubishi Electric Group both adequate norms through a revision of rules or explanatory in Japan and overseas. Poster for internal meetings for promoting due understanding of the same. dissemination of Where misconduct contrary to any laws and/or internal information on the hotline 66 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social Risk Management Basic Policy The Mitsubishi Electric Group engages in the development, realize sustainable growth, the Group has a framework in manufacture and sale of a broad range of products place for managing business-related risks in an appropriate in diverse sectors, including the Energy & Electric manner. Systems, Industrial Automation Systems, Information The framework provides proper responses to risks & Communication Systems, Electronic Devices and depending on their type, size and impact. For example, Home Appliances. Moreover, the Group operates these by incorporating risk management into business activities, businesses not only in Japan but overseas, such as in North risks are managed according to the size and characteristics America, Europe and Asia. of each business, and important risks that cover the entire To respond to the expectations of all stakeholders Group are mainly managed by corporate departments. beginning with society, customers and shareholders, and to Risk Management Framework The Mitsubishi Electric Group maintains a multi-dimensional In the event an incident occurs that seriously calls into risk management system in which all executive officers question the Group's social responsibility and is expected participate. to have a profound impact on management, or in the case Under this system, executive officers are responsible of such emergencies as large-scale disasters, accidents or for risk management in their assigned areas of operation. pandemics, a company-wide Emergency Response Center In addition, executive officers exchange information and will be established to implement measures under the 【4-3-2】Risk Management Framework participate in important management initiatives and decisions through regularly scheduled executive officers' leadership of the president, to ensure prompt and proper initial response. meetings. Risk Management Framework Executive Board Company-wide Emergency Response Office (emergency situations) Planning Committee Business Council Risk Review Board Joint Review Commission Business Investment Review Committee Regional Corporate Offices (overseas) Important matters Risk cases Quality / Environment Disasters, etc. Operations departments Risk management framework 67 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social Responding to Environmental Risk The Mitsubishi Electric Group works to quickly discover and informs these outside parties of our risk response latent risks in business activities that can impact or procedures and disseminates the proper procedures in potentially impact the environment in a substantial way. their respective organizations. To prepare for an accident or emergency that involves Each organization runs a test at least once a year an environmental risk such as groundwater or soil to determine if the managers in charge are capable of pollution, the handling of waste, or the malfunction of an appropriately responding to an emergency. The tests environmental facility, head office divisions, manufacturing simulate an emergency that has the potential of occurring, facilities, R&D centers, branches, and affiliates in Japan to determine whether initial responses, provisional and overseas have developed detailed risk descriptions measures, and communication methods properly function and procedure manuals that specify departmental in regard to environmental accidents. When problems responsibilities. Mitsubishi Electric also anticipates the are uncovered, the procedures are revised and the new possibility of accidents, complaints, or violations of the version is publicized throughout the organization. law arising on the side of construction subcontractors [Environment] Environmental risk management or companies working under outsourcing agreements, Disaster Countermeasures Development of a Response Framework for Large-scale Disasters Engaging in business on a global scale entails the risk response framework, reexamining its disaster prevention of being affected by disasters, including earthquakes, system and disaster countermeasures, to prepare for regional conflicts, terrorism, and outbreaks of infectious emergencies. diseases. The Mitsubishi Electric Group is strengthening its Emergency disaster prevention framework In the event that any of the Mitsubishi Electric Group’ s promptly examines and executes policies in response sites suffer or are at risk of suffering serious damage as to business continuity initiatives and requests from the result of a large-scale disaster, we have a framework society (support for affected areas, donations, etc.). in place that is centered on the Mitsubishi Electric Particularly with regard to overseas sites and affiliated Emergency Response Center headed by our president, to companies overseas, it works closely with each regional enable the entire Mitsubishi Electric Group to respond to response headquarters to ensure employee safety (safety the emergency situation. confirmation, livelihood support, etc.) and provide support In addition to verifying the (personal and physical) for business restoration. Disaster Prevention Framework disaster situation, the Emergency Response Center Japan Mitsubishi Electric <Ordinary times <Times of emergency (permanently in place)> (temporarily in place)> Company-wide Disaster Mitsubishi Electric Prevention and Safety Committee Emergency Response Center Examination of disaster Disaster Countermeasure prevention activities, information instructions instructions for course of action Business group headquarters, branch offices, International headquarters manufacturing sites, research institutes Overseas Regional countermeasure headquarters Examination of disaster (Americas, Europe, Asia, Disaster Examination of disaster China, Taiwan) prevention activities, Disaster information prevention activities, instructions for course information of action, emergency instructions for course Countermeasure instructions restoration support, etc. of action, emergency regarding risks overseas, restoration support, etc. sharing of information across each region, transmission of relevant information to Japan Affiliated companies in Japan Affiliated companies overseas Mitsubishi Electric Group’ s disaster prevention framework 68 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social Framework for ordinary times (creation of a PDCA cycle for disaster response) In ordinary times, we take steps to ensure that the formulated, and considering the major changes in external disaster prevention initiatives we have so far taken environments, such as IT developments, it launched continue to be valid, by establishing a Company-wide the Emergency Response Center, and reconsidered Disaster Prevention and Safety Committee headed by alternatives for it. the executive officer in charge of general affairs, and by For fiscal 2020, the Committee considers that in order implementing continuous improvement activities through to maintain the effectiveness of the BCPs, it is crucial to a PDCA cycle to make improvements based on periodic continue conducting reviews that are in step with the examinations and reviews of the disaster response changes in external environments, and will focus on measures of the Mitsubishi Electric Group (at least once a reviewing BCPs toward increasing their viability in times of year) and the results of emergency drills. emergency as a Group-wide priority. In fiscal 2019, the Committee compared the situation to when the business continuity plan (BCP) was Initiatives for Business Continuity and Disaster Response Business continuity plan (BCP) formulation and regular (annual) review To fulfill our responsibility as a product supplier, we had business at an alternative site and urged major affiliated all Mitsubishi Electric offices formulate a BCP assuming companies in Japan and overseas to formulate a BCP. the possible outbreak of a new strain of influenza in To ensure the BCP that is formulated in each office and fiscal 2011 and a BCP assuming the risk of a large-scale affiliated company in Japan and overseas remains valid, earthquake in fiscal 2013. the BCP is reviewed and countermeasures are upgraded In fiscal 2014, we began an examination of continuing every year. Business continuity in the supply chain At Mitsubishi Electric, we pursue initiatives to avoid organize BCP seminars for suppliers, to strengthen situations in which a large-scale disaster or other awareness and provide support for disaster prevention unavoidable circumstance imposes serious damage on measures. suppliers, severs the supply of materials, or obstructs our 3. Activities for ensuring prompt initial response at times production activities. of disaster 1. Evaluation of BCP risks among suppliers To ensure prompt initial response at times of From fiscal 2015, we have begun an evaluation of BCP disaster, we have created and actively utilize a map risks among our suppliers in Japan using a companysearch system that allows us to search on a map the wide unified index, and are bringing visibility to locations of suppliers in the vicinity of a disaster point. suppliers with high risks. 2. Activities for mitigating supplier risks Hereafter, we will also promote multi-company To mitigate the risks that have come to light through purchasing and multi-siting of production centers by the BCP risk evaluation of suppliers, we recommend suppliers overseas, to ensure stable procurement activities multi-company purchasing, and request our suppliers in our overseas production centers. to multi-site their production centers. We also 69 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social Strengthening disaster responses Each office and affiliated company of the Mitsubishi emergency. Electric Group possesses a disaster response manual In fiscal 2019’ s drill, the target time for recovery of all that is used to implement preliminary measures (disaster enterprise systems was successfully achieved. mitigation measures) and disaster prevention drills. For We have also instructed affiliated companies to example, every year, the Mitsubishi Electric Corporate IT establish the same level of disaster countermeasures as Strategy Division, which has two separate data centers those implemented by Mitsubishi Electric to strengthen in Tokyo and the Kansai region, carries out a drill for their emergency preparedness through disaster-prevention switching between data centers in the event of an drills at each site. BCP training at a Mitsubishi Electric site in Japan Disaster prevention drill at an overseas Mitsubishi Electric site (Taiwan) Pandemic countermeasures The development of various modes of transportation our company in the event of an outbreak of a new strain and transportation networks, and the globalization of the of influenza (through BCP formulation, keeping tabs on the economy have increased not only the movement of people, dynamics of business travelers and expatriates, stockpiling but also the risk of pandemic diseases such as the Ebola masks, etc.). virus disease and new strains of influenza. Overseas, and particularly in countries where the Amid the advancing globalization of the Mitsubishi probability of an outbreak of a new strain of influenza is high, Electric Group’ s businesses, in Japan we commenced we provide direction to formulate a BCP that assumes such initiatives to fulfill our corporate social responsibilities to an outbreak and to otherwise implement countermeasures (1) ensure people's safety, (2) sustain businesses that serve that are suitable for the situation in each country. societal functions, and (3) minimize economic impact on Ensuring safety overseas The Mitsubishi Electric Group's Overseas Safety Response to dangerous regions. In addition, we carefully examined Center, under the Corporate Human Resources Division, each overseas office for various risks such as warfare, works closely with overseas sites (overseas offices and terrorism, civil unrest, general crime, traffic dangers and affiliated companies of Mitsubishi Electric and affiliates in environmental disasters, and carefully examined the Japan) to grasp the dynamics and confirm the safety of probability of occurrence and the level of impact on overseas business travelers, convey various information businesses. The risks for each region were then shared. (travel restrictions, etc. based on information gathered We also participated in the public-private overseas safety from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and specialized cooperation conference sponsored by the Ministry of agencies), and provide employee education. Foreign Affairs, and exchanged information and views In fiscal 2019, in response to the increasing number with other companies and organizations. The results of overseas assignments to dangerous regions, we of the conference have been incorporated into the risk organized overseas safety seminars for employees management activities of our company and overseas sites. scheduled to take up such assignments or business trips 70 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social Our Approach to Information Security Basic Policy The Mitsubishi Electric Group handles confidential intellectual property, based on the Declaration of corporate and personal information appropriately as part Confidential Corporate Information Security Management of its corporate social responsibility to make certain that that was established in February 2005. Information that is such sensitive information does not leak out and cause entrusted to us by our corporate customers is managed concern for our customers and society, as can be caused and protected in compliance with a non-disclosure by cyber-attacks or the loss of storage media. agreement, as well as by the same level of security The Mitsubishi Electric Group manages confidential measures that are applied to our own confidential corporate information, which includes information on corporate information. Mitsubishi Electric’ s sales, engineering matters and ＜Declaration of Confidential Corporate Information Security Management＞ With respect to the information assets that constitute its core business activities, Mitsubishi Electric Corporation shall disclose information that should be released externally in a timely and appropriate manner, while ensuring strict and appropriate management of confidential corporate information. In the unlikely event that valuable information or confidential corporate information entrusted to us by others were to leak, this would not only cost the trust and confidence invested in the Company; the improper use of this information could also threaten national, societal and individual security. Recognizing that appropriate management of confidential corporate information is a key corporate social responsibility, the Company hereby declares that all employees shall comply with the following confidential corporate information management policies. 1. Appropriate Management of Confidential Corporate Information through Compliance with Laws, Ordinances and Regulations The Company shall manage all confidential corporate information concerning business activities appropriately in accordance with laws, ordinances and Company regulations. Confidential corporate information means valuable technical or business information held by the Company, and information (such as personal information, information obtained from outside the Company and insider information), which, if disclosed or used in an unauthorized way, could be disadvantageous to the Company and/or its stakeholders. Physical objects that constitute confidential corporate information are also subject to control. 2. Enforcement of Security Management Measures The Company shall implement appropriate security management measures for the protection and proper control of confidential corporate information. Security management measures means organizational, human, technological and physical measures that are strictly enforced according to the confidentiality level of the applicable corporate information. 3. Enhancement of Information System Security Measures The Company shall enhance its information system security measures to prevent unauthorized access, intrusion and wrongful use of confidential corporate information, and implement comprehensive countermeasures with IT. 4. Education Recognizing that the awareness of individual employees who are involved in handling confidential corporate information is fundamental to management, the Company shall provide regular education for all employees concerning the importance of confidential corporate information management and the Company's efforts to enhance it. 5. Continual improvement of Management through the PDCA Cycle The Company shall establish a confidential corporate information management system and improve it proactively and continually through the PDCA (Plan-Do-Check-Action) cycle. 6. Timely and Appropriate Information Disclosure In addition to rigorously managing confidential corporate information in an appropriate manner in line with items 1 through 5 above, the Company shall disclose information that should be externally released in a timely and appropriate manner. April 1, 2018 Takeshi Sugiyama, President & CEO Mitsubishi Electric Corporation 71 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social Personal information collected from customers through questionnaires, registration of purchased products, repair services, and other such means is managed based on the Personal Information Protection Policy that was established in April 2004. On the basis of this system, in January 2008 Mitsubishi Electric was granted the right to use the PrivacyMark under Japan’ s system for certifying personal information protection systems, in recognition of its ongoing efforts to ensure proper handling of personal information. ＜Personal Information Protection Policy＞ Mitsubishi Electric Corporation fully complies with Japan’ s laws and regulations, national policies and other rules concerning the protection of personal information. Personal information can be defined as any information that may be used to identify an individual, including, but not limited to, a first and last name, a home or other physical address, an e-mail address or other contact information. Mitsubishi Electric Corporation sometimes collects personal information from its customers while conducting business activities. On the Global Website, personal information is collected predominantly through the various contact/inquiry forms. When we directly solicit personal information from you in writing, we will specify how we intend to use the information, and ask for your consent. When we collect personal information by other means, we will announce on our website how we intend to use it. When you provide us with personal information, we use the information to respond to and confirm your inquiry, and may keep a record of the inquiry for the same purposes. In addition, to support our customer relationship, we may store and process personal information and share it with our worldwide subsidiaries and affiliates to better understand your needs and how we can improve our products and services. At times Mitsubishi Electric Corporation may conduct online surveys to better understand the needs and profile of our visitors. When we conduct a survey, we will do our utmost to let you know how we will use the information collected from you. Our site may provide contests, sweepstakes or other promotions that may ask you to enter your personal information. We will use the information you provide for the purpose of conducting the promotion, like providing customer support or contacting you if you’ re a winner. Mitsubishi Electric Corporation does not use or disclose information gathered from individual visits to the Site or information that you may give us to any third parties for intention to sell, rent or otherwise market your personal information. We may at times employ a third party service providers to perform or assist us on the on-line surveys, contests, sweepstakes or other promotions. For example, administering the survey or promotion, compiling the data or providing customer support. These parties will have signed a Non-Disclosure Agreement prior to any services we initiate with them. They will not disclose any personal information they receive from you and will only use it in order to initiate and or continue the services they are providing for us. You have the option not to provide personal information to Mitsubishi Electric Corporation. If you choose not to provide the personal information we request, you can still visit most of the Site, but you may be unable to access certain options, offers and services that involve our interaction with you. 72 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social Framework and Guidelines The President & CEO assigns a Corporate Manager for manager of each business site (office directors, etc.). Confidential Corporate Information Management and The Business Group Secretariats and Business Office Personal Information Protection (hereafter Corporate Secretariats, under the General Manager of each business Manager), who assumes overall responsibility for group and manager of each business site strive to ensure confidential corporate information management, and information security by maintaining close coordination and an Audit Manager for Personal Information Protection, regularly holding meetings with the Corporate Secretariat. who is responsible for implementing and reporting the In the event an incident were to occur, reports results of personal information audits. The Corporate and instructions would be given in keeping with this Manager assumes overall responsibility for information framework and appropriate responses would be taken to security, and the Corporate Secretariat for Confidential prevent secondary damage. Corporate Information Management and Personal Business groups and offices (offices, branches, works Information Protection (hereafter Corporate Secretariat) [production plants]) issue instructions and guidance on under the Corporate Manager is in charge of planning and information security to affiliates in and outside Japan. promoting information security measures. Responsibility Paying special attention to the circumstances and special for the actual utilization and management of confidential characteristics of overseas affiliates, the Corporate corporate information and personal information lies Secretariat places overseas regional representative with the General Manager of each business group (the managers at sites in the Americas, Europe, China, and 情報セキュリティー体制 Confidential Corporate Information Management and other Asian countries and coordinates with them to Personal Information Protection Manager) and the ensure information security. President & CEO Policy Audit Manager Corporate Manager of and Business group headquarters of Personal Confidential Corporate Information Management Instruction and Personal Information Protection Managers Information (General Managers of business groups) Protection ( Principal: Executive Officer for General Affairs; Assistant: Executive Officer for Information Technology ) Secretariat Corporate Secretariat for Offices, branches, works[production plants] Instruction Confidential Corporate Information Management and Personal Information Protection Managers ( ) Corporate Administration Division (office directors, etc.) and Corporate IT Strategy Division Secretariat Coordination Affiliates in Japan Coordination Overseas regional representative managers Affiliates outside Japan Control and Planning Framework(Mitsubishi Electric Group) Units responsible for promoting information security 73 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social PDCA Cycle to ensure information security Management Principles The Mitsubishi Electric Group practices confidential Continuous improvement corporate information management and personal information protection utilizing a continuous improvement approach implemented using the Plan, Do, Check, Act (PDCA) cycle, and employs four security measures to Enhancement of the level of ensure proper management and protection of confidential corporate information and personal information from information security the organizational, human, physical, and technological perspectives. Conﬁdential Corporate Information and Security Measures Upward spiral Organizational Management framework, internal rules, internal audits Human Education for employees, personnel management Act Plan Security measures Site and room access control, physical protection Physical through equipment Check Do Technological Information system security Four security measures PDCA cycle to ensure information security Global Activities To maintain and improve the information security level as appropriate for each information security system, of the Mitsubishi Electric Group as a whole, including as prescribed in the Guidelines to Information Security overseas affiliates, various inspections are conducted Management Rules for Affiliated Companies. Information Security Regulations and Guidelines Committed to living up to its Declaration of Confidential regulations and guidelines alongside the four security Corporate Information Security Management and measures, and reviews them as necessary to stay in Personal Information Protection Policy, Mitsubishi compliance with current laws. In addition, we have similar Electric Corporation has established information security rules for personal information protection and affiliates. Item Basic regulations Organizational security measures: Regulations on confidential corporate information security management Human security measures: Regulations on the work of employees Security measures Physical security measures: Physical security guidelines Technological security measures: Regulations on information security management 74 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social Information Security Inspections The Mitsubishi Electric Group performs the following the status of those activities. The Group reviews measures inspections as part of the C (Check) stage of the PDCA based the results, and this leads to the A (Act) stage of cycle at head office management departments, business the PDCA cycle. groups and offices, and affiliates. These inspections focus These inspections are set down in the Confidential on checking whether confidential corporate information Corporate Information Management Regulations, management and personal information protection which cover Mitsubishi Electric Corporation, and in activities are being implemented properly by the the Guidelines for Information Security Management Mitsubishi Electric Group as a whole, and on confirming Regulations, which cover affiliates in and outside Japan. Inspections related to information security Item Name Content Self-check program for confidential Using a checklist, each Mitsubishi Electric Group company Self-check corporate information management performs a self-inspection of its activities for information and personal information protection security. Third-party check program for Mitsubishi Electric’ s business sites mutually check each confidential corporate information other’ s status of information security management. Mitsubishi management and personal information Electric checks the status of information security at affiliated protection companies. Third-party In Mitsubishi Electric, the status of personal information check protection is internally audited under the supervision of the Personal information protection audits Audit Manager for Personal Information Protection. In affiliated (Personal information protection companies in Japan that have been granted the right to use management system audits) the PrivacyMark, the same internal audit is conducted by the audit manager in each company. Various Measures Information Security Education Mitsubishi Electric provides the following education proper handling of confidential corporate information and programs to foster a corporate culture that enforces the personal information. Education for all employees Exercises to practice handling spoofed e-mails An e-learning program on information security is offered As a measure against cyber-attacks, Mitsubishi Electric once a year to all of the Company’ s roughly 50,000 regularly conduct exercises that allow all employees, employees, to disseminate thorough knowledge including officers, to verify that they know how to handle of various issues on information security, including spoofed e-mails. Employees of affiliates in Japan can Mitsubishi Electric's policies, the status of information participate in this exercise. At overseas affiliates in the leakage incidents, laws and regulations on the protection Americas, Europe, and China, practice exercises are of personal information, the Unfair Competition conducted according to local circumstances under the Prevention Act, and security measures (human, physical, direction of regional representative managers. technological, and organizational) to be taken by all employees. Education corresponding to each career stage Other individual training Education on confidential corporate information Employees posted overseas are provided with a management and personal information protection is preliminary education program, which covers risks in provided to new employees, employees in their twenties, confidential corporate information management and and thirties and newly appointed section managers, so personal information protection outside Japan and that they may fulfill the roles that are expected of them at examples of information leakage incidents that have each career stage. occurred overseas. 75 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social Contractor Management Confidential corporate information and personal the information to the contractor, we confirm that the information are entrusted to a contractor only after a contractor will maintain the proper level of protection. proper non-disclosure agreement is concluded between After submitting the information, we supervise the Mitsubishi Electric and the contractor. The agreement contractor by regularly examining a status report on the stipulates all the security matters that we require. To use and management of the information that we have ensure that confidential corporate information and submitted. Moreover, the agreement includes a special personal information entrusted to a contractor will be clause that provides for the protection of the personal handled with appropriate control, before entrusting information that we have submitted. Cyber-Attack Countermeasures Cyber-attacks have become a major threat for businesses. multilayered defense alone. Accordingly, we monitor As they are growing increasingly sophisticated and cyber-attacks and have put in place a system to respond diverse year-by-year, it is becoming difficult to prevent immediately should a case occur, in an effort to prevent them. The Mitsubishi Electric Group deploys cyberor minimize damage. attack countermeasures through a multilayered defense Internet websites are constantly exposed to many consisting of a number of different defense measures external threats, and so we only launch websites that are stacked on top of each other. Furthermore, there are approved in order to maintain high security level. cyber-attacks that cannot be prevented entirely with a Activities for Personal Information Protection Personal Information Protection System of rules for personal information protection In efforts to protect personal information, Mitsubishi amended Act on the Protection of Personal Information, Electric first created company rules on personal which went into force in May 2017. information protection in October 2001, and since then it has required all employees and affiliated persons to obey those rules strictly. Mitsubishi Electric issued a personal Personal information protection policy in 2004, complying with the Information Basic policy Protection Policy requirements of JIS Q 15001:2006 Personal Information Protection Management Systems. In January 2008, we were granted the right to use the PrivacyMark, which Regulations Concerning Basic rules Personal Information certifies the establishment of management systems Protection that ensure proper measures for personal information protection. We have maintained our PrivacyMark Handbook of Operational certification until the present. Personal Information Protection, procedures etc. We have also conducted a review of our internal regulations to ensure a proper response to Japan’ s System of rules for personal information protection Proper handling of Personal Information Mitsubishi Electric handles personal information use it only within the intended scope, and provide it to a appropriately; we acquire it by specifying purpose of use, third party only with prior consent from users. Response to the EU General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) The Mitsubishi Electric Group handles personal data from was put into force in the EU in May 2018 as a framework the EU in an appropriate manner with due consideration to protect privacy. to the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) that 76 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social Research and Development Research and Development As the cornerstone of its growth strategy, the Mitsubishi the entire Group have amounted to 212.7 billion yen Electric Group will promote short-, medium-, and long(1% increase compared to the previous fiscal year). term R&D themes in a balanced manner. Representative achievements are as follows. In addition to promoting development toward strengthening current businesses and achieving innovation, R&D policy the Company is striving to create further value through Well balanced short-, midand long-term R&D synergy of technologies and businesses by leveraging the External technologies/entities Company’ s diverse technologies and businesses, while also working to realize sustainable growth through the Open Innovation Future society development of future technologies. Realizing sustainable growth through the development of future technologies To support these efforts, the Company is developing —Co-creating the future— ̶ともに創造する未来̶ common basic technologies that are the source of the Creating further value through synergy of technologies and businesses competitive advantages of the Company’ s products, on a Promoting development continuous basis. toward strengthening current businesses Shortterm Midterm (4Ys-) Longterm (10Ys-) Furthermore, the Company will promote enhancement and achieving innovation Developing common basic technologies that are of efficiency of development through proactive utilization the source of competitive advantages, on a continuous basis of open innovation in collaboration with universities and other external R&D institutions. Society 5.0: It is contained in the 5th Science and Technology Basic Plan approved by the Government of Japan in Jan. 2016. During fiscal 2019, the total R&D expenses for SDGs: “Sustainable Development Goals” adopted by the United Nations as goals to achieve towards 2030 Main R&D Achievements in Fiscal 2019 (consolidated results) Development of New Dot Forming Technology Development of Seamless Speech Recognition that Achieves High-precision Three-dimensional Technology Metal Shaping In recent years, there has been a growing demand for Using its proprietary Maisart*1 AI technology, the Company multi-product small-lot production. In order to shorten developed“Seamless Speech Recognition,”the world’ s manufacturing processes and increase design flexibility, first*2 technology capable of highly accurate multilingual application of three-dimensional shaping technologies to speech recognition without being informed which language metal parts have been spreading in various fields, primarily is being spoken. The technology can understand multiple in the aircraft and automobile manufacturing fields. people speaking either the same or different languages The Company has developed a unique dot forming simultaneously. technology that realizes high-precision shaping by combining Going forward, the Company will work to further laser, computer numerical control and computer aided improve the accuracy andapplicability of automatic speech manufacturing CAM*1 technologies in 3D printers. The recognition in real environments. technology produces high-quality three-dimensional parts *1 Mitsubishi Electric’ s AI creates the State-of-the-ART in technology with few voids at high speed, employing a laser wire DED*2 Mitsubishi Electric’ s AI technology brand aimed at making method. With this new technology, the shape accuracy has every device smarter improved by 60% (in-house comparison) compared to that of *2 As of February 13, 2019 (based on the Company’ s research) conventional consecutive forming technology. Seamless Multilingual Speech Recognition The technology will contribute to greater productivity in a wide range of applications, such as the“near-net”shaping*3 of aircraft and automobile parts and build-up repairs. *1 C omputer Aided Manufacturing: A technology that uses input threeHello Hello こんにちは こんにちは dimensional shape data to perform all production preparations, End-to-End Guten GutenTag Tag such as the creation of processing programs, on a computer *2 Directed Energy Deposition: An additive-manufacturing process End-to-End neural network 你好 Hola Hola 你好 that uses focused thermal energy to fuse materials as they are ニューラル distinguishes Bonjour Bonjour deposited, and add layer by layer to solidify ネットワークで、 languages and Buon Buon pomeriggio pomeriggio *3 A manufacturing technique to produce the item in near-final form 言語の識別と recognizes … … … 発話内容の認識を the meaning … 同時実施 Laser Wire DED Type Metal 3D Printer Speaking in native 事前言語設定 of what is spoken More than 10 languages without 多言語を languages することなく prior language are recognized 高精度に認識 Laser Consecutive Dot forming 母国語で発話 setting with high accuracy forming (new) oscillator (conventional) Image of the Seamless Speech 「シームレス音声認識技術」のイメージRecognition Technology Voice recognition is possible even in situations Gas nozzle Wire nozzle The shape accuracy of cylindrically where it is not known what languages will be spoken Laser spot shaped items is increased by 60% by an indefinite large number of users 3D structures 77 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social Intellectual Property Basic Policy The proper protection of intellectual property (IP) rights resource essential to its future and must be protected. promotes technological progress and sound competition, Through integrating business, R&D, and IP activities, the and also contributes to realizing affluent lifestyles and the Group is proactively strengthening its global IP assets, development of society. which are closely linked to the Group's business growth The Mitsubishi Electric Group recognizes that strategies and contribute to both business and society, intellectual property (IP) rights represent a vital management and also working on protecting IP rights. Structure of the Intellectual Property Division Integrating Business, R&D and IP Activities The IP divisions of the Mitsubishi Electric Group include the Head Office IP Division, which is the direct Integration IP Network responsibility of the president, and the IP divisions at the Works, R&D centers, and affiliated companies. The IP/Standardization Strategy IP Division at Headquarters activities of each IP division are carried out under the executive officer in charge of IP at each location. The Head Office IP Division formulates strategies for the entire IP Departments Business Strategy Business Groups, Facilities, Affiliates Group, promotes critical projects, coordinates interaction with external agencies including patent offices, and is in charge of IP public relations activities. At the Works, R&D R&D Centers Development Strategy center, and affiliated company level, IP divisions promote IP Departments individual strategies in line with the Group's overall IP Integrating Business, R&D and IP Activities strategies. Through mutual collaboration, these divisions work to link and fuse their activities in an effort to develop more effective initiatives. Global IP Strategy The Mitsubishi Electric Group identifies critical IP-related As an indication of the Mitsubishi Electric Group's themes based on its mainstay businesses and important IP capability and global IP activities, the company R&D projects, and is accelerating the globalization of ranked No.1 in Japan in terms of the number of patent IP activities also by filing patents prior to undertaking registrations (in 2018) announced by the Japan Patent business development in emerging countries where Office (JPO), and No.2 in the world in terms of Patent an expansion of business opportunities is expected. Cooperation Treaty (PCT) applications by businesses Furthermore, resident officers are assigned to Mitsubishi (in 2018) announced by the World Intellectual Property Electric sites in the United States, Europe, China, and Organization (WIPO). Southeast Asia to take charge of IP activities and In conjunction with creating a patent network, we strengthen the IP capabilities of business offices, R&D are also actively pursuing activities toward acquiring centers, and affiliated companies in each country. Through design rights in Japan and overseas, to protect both the these initiatives, we strive to create a robust global patent functional and design aspects of our technologies. network. (Top 5) PCT applicants: businesses, 2018 (WIPO, PCT Yearly Review) No. of patent registrations in 2018 (Japan) No. of No. of Rank Applicant Country patents Rank Applicant patents 1 Huawei China 5,405 1 Mitsubishi Electric 4,348 2 Mitsubishi Electric Japan 2,812 2 Canon 4,288 3 Intel USA 2,499 3 Toyota Motor 3,301 4 Qualcomm USA 2,404 4 DENSO 3,285 5 ZTE China 2,080 5 Panasonic 2,630 (WIPO) (JPO) 78 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social Annual Trends in Overseas Patent Applications by the Mitsubishi Electric*1 Further Strengthening Global IP Capabilities (No. of Applications) 6000 ● IP representative 5000 4000 Europe 3000 China Head Office Americas 2000 IP Division Asia 1000 0 2016 2017 2018 2019 （FY） ● Protecting products through IP rights ● Acquiring international standard-related patents ● Counterfeit product countermeasures USA Europe China Others *1 S tarting in 2019, we began using the number of overseas Further Strengthening Global IP Capabilities patent applications of Mitsubishi Electric as a single entity IP Strategy for International Standardization In order to expand business in global markets, the to increase activities for acquiring patents in competitive Mitsubishi Electric Group is actively promoting fields involving international standards, and promoting international standardization. Activities to acquire patents IP activities that contribute to increasing product that support international standards (e.g., standard competitiveness and expanding market share. In the field essential patents) are openly promoted. As the member of 5G mobile communication systems, which are expected of an organization in which patent pools for Digital to proliferate in the future, we are not only involved in Broadcasting, MPEG, HEVC, DVD, Blu-ray Disc™*2 and activities to acquire standard-essential patents, but also Mobile communications collectively control standard leveraging our technologies to promote IP activities that essential patents, the IP revenues obtained through make our products even better. the organization are contributing to improvement and growth in business earnings. The Group is also working *2 Blu-ray Disc™ is a trademark of the Blu-ray Disc Association Patent Licensing Respecting IP Rights The Mitsubishi Electric Group firmly recognizes the others, various educational measures are provided mainly importance of mutually acknowledging and respecting not to engineers and IP officers, to raise employee awareness only its own intellectual property rights but the intellectual and promote greater respect for the IP rights of others. At property rights of others as well. This stance is clearly set the same time, a set of rules has been put in place to ensure forth in the Mitsubishi Electric Group Conduct Guidelines and that a survey of the patent rights of others is carried out at practiced throughout the Group. every stage from development to production, and is strictly Any infringements on the IP rights of others not only enforced throughout the entire Group. violate the Code of Corporate Ethics and Compliance, but The Mitsubishi Electric Group also works diligently also have the potential to significantly impair the Group's to prevent any infringement on its IP rights by others. In continued viability as a going concern. The resulting potential addition to in-house activities, we place particular weight on impairments include being obliged to pay significant licensing collaborating with industry organizations while approaching fees or being forced to discontinue the manufacture of a government agencies both in Japan and overseas as a part certain product. of a wide range of measures to prevent the counterfeiting of In order to prevent any infringement on the IP rights of our products. Cooperation in IP Policies IP policies—such as those for prompt and efficient patent Property Strategy Headquarters and other governmental examination, international standardization activities, agencies of the Patent Office, and industrial organizations measures against counterfeit and pirated goods, and the such as the Keidanren and the Japan Intellectual Property establishment of a global patent system—encourage fair Association. Given today's advances in economic competition and contribute to building affluent lifestyles globalization, Mitsubishi Electric thus engages in active and society. exchanges of views and information with the World Based on this awareness, Mitsubishi Electric makes Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) and patent various proposals regarding IP policies and amendments offices abroad, and cooperates in establishing IP policies of relevant laws from the industrial perspective, through from a broad, global perspective. its activities with institutions such as the Intellectual 79 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social Communication with Shareholders and Investors Basic Policy The Mitsubishi Electric Group enthusiastically engages results. We also make every effort to incorporate into in IR activities to gain the understanding and trust of our management plans and practices the views of our its shareholders and investors, and makes it a point to shareholders and investors and the results of dialogue disclose the appropriate information in a timely manner, with them. in regard to management policies, strategies, and financial Communication with Shareholders and Investors Mitsubishi Electric holds a General Meeting of year, we send a Shareholder Communique (Midterm Shareholders in late June every year. By issuing the Report, written in Japanese) to all of our shareholders. convocation notice for this meeting in early June and The Shareholder Communique provides an overview of publishing the notice on our homepage one week before the second quarter cumulative period and looks at future it is issued, we ensure that there is sufficient time for all initiatives. This report is another example of how we shareholders to examine the items on the agenda. In strive to deepen our shareholders’understanding of the addition, we are establishing an environment that enables Mitsubishi Electric Group. shareholders to exercise their voting rights on the Internet. Mitsubishi Electric regards shareholders meetings as precious opportunities for direct communication with our shareholders. To explain our business strategies, results and other important matters, we employ visual presentations that make abundant use of photographs, charts and the like in PowerPoint slides. In addition to making our explanations easier for our shareholders to comprehend, we also aim to stimulate sincere and constructive dialogue by providing detailed answers to questions that our shareholder pose. Together with this, we also hold product exhibitions, which provide an opportunity for our shareholders to understand the Mitsubishi Electric Group’ s business activities. And furthermore, at the beginning of December every Shareholder Communique (only in Japanese) Major IR Activities in Fiscal 2019 In fiscal 2019, in addition to holding presentations Mitsubishi Electric Advanced Solutions 2018 event, an concerning corporate strategies and financial results exhibition showcasing products and technologies for for institutional investors and analysts and organizing achieving our growth strategy. Also held were company individual meetings with them, we held an R&D open presentation meetings for individual investors. house where we explained our research and development strategies and outcomes. In addition, we hosted the Investor Relations website Presentations on corporate strategy R&D open house 80 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social Environmental From the President Towards Realizing Sustainable Societies Worldwide, we are drawing on strengths within and outside of the Group, and combining them to tackle various perplexing social issues. Takeshi Sugiyama President & CEO Mitsubishi Electric Corporation Promoting initiatives to achieve activities by SEGES*4 for its onsite biodiversity preservation activities. It is a great honor that our various products and “Environmental Vision 2021” initiatives have been highly recognized. The subject of environmental issues such as climate change, resource depletion, chemical substances, and Contributing to SDGs marine plastics is increasingly growing as a topic of through a wide variety of businesses conversation amongst the general public. In response to this, the international community is working to comply As we design and execute future business activities, we with the Paris Agreement on Climate Change and the must be certain to always contribute to obtaining the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, in which there SDGs. The 17 goals are interrelated, and by solving the are 17 sustainable development goals commonly referred environmental issues, we can contribute to achieve SDGs to in industry as“SDGs,” *1 and to realize a circular that approach to other issues. economy.* Under these circumstances, we strongly feel 2 As comprehensive electrical and electronics that manufacturers such as ourselves must contribute to manufacturers, the Mitsubishi Electric Group is committed those agreements and goals through our products and to developing technologies and manufacturing products services. and systems that will enable greater energy savings, more The Mitsubishi Electric Group has long been effective use of water and other resources, and further committed to contributing to the realization of an affluent contribute to creating recycling-based societies. This will society while simultaneously achieving“sustainability, not be achieved solely through manufacturing, such as safety, security, and comfort.”We are currently working reducing product size and utilizing recycled materials, but to reduce CO2 emissions from manufacturing processes also by utilizing resources more carefully such minimizing and product use, ensure the effective use of resources, parts replacement by improving product durability, and preserve biodiversity, for which specific targets were increasing the percentage of product parts that can be set to be achieved by fiscal 2021 at the time of drafting recycled after use, and other initiatives. “Environmental Vision 2021.” To successfully achieve our objectives and goals, it is Then, in fiscal 2019, we set targets for the effective use indispensable for us to further expand collaboration with of water resources taking into consideration international various entities outside of the Mitsubishi Electric Group. laws and regulations would continue to grow stricter, and Many of the issues societies around the world are facing that we must enforce overall environmental management cannot be solved by the Mitsubishi Electric Group, or at our sites overseas. any other group, alone. We must reach out and listen As a result of these environmental activities, CDP*3 to the opinions of local residents, local administrations, placed Mitsubishi Electric on the A List in two categories, customers, and other companies and sources of “Climate Change”and“Water Security,”for the third information, and recognize the roles we are to play and consecutive year. Additionally, five products received the reflect these in specific initiatives. Energy Conservation Grand Prize from Japan’ s Ministry of As I stated above, our intention is to focus on Economy, Trade and Industry, and the Power Distribution contributing to the realization of all SDGs in our activities Systems Center became the first in the Group to be and resolve perplexing social issues, including those certified as a site engaged in distinguished greening related to the environment. 81 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social Announcement of“Environmental Furthermore, we shall promote active dialogue, collaboration, and co-creation with many people and Sustainability Vision 2050”– Towards entities outside the Group, publicizing and sharing new the Next 30 Years values and lifestyles that will result in living comfortably, in harmony with nature. In June 2019, the Mitsubishi Electric Group announced In order to implement these three guidelines and “Environmental Sustainability Vision 2050”and made steadily progress forward, we will formulate a concrete an environmental declaration to“Protect the air, land, action plan by fiscal 2022, the year we officially enact and water. With our hearts and technologies, sustain Environmental Sustainability Vision 2050. to a better future for all.”Our aim is to share ideas and My personal goal is to ensure that the employees technologies not only within the Mitsubishi Electric of the member companies in the Mitsubishi Electric Group, but also with those outside in order to resolve Group are truly motivated to contribute to preserving the issues related to air, land, and water. In doing so, we environment, and that they too acknowledge the need for hope that all employees in the Group and those we work all members of society to be involved. with outside of it will passionately take action and work towards creating a sustainable future. June 28, 2019 Three action guidelines have been formulated to actualize the targets stipulated in Environmental Sustainability Vision 2050. *1 S  DGs: Sustainable Development Goals: Included in the“2030 Firstly, as comprehensive electrical and electronics Agenda for Sustainable Development”formulated by the United manufacturers, the Mitsubishi Electric Group shall utilize Nations General Assembly in September 2015. diverse technological assets throughout wide-ranging *2 C  ircular economy: New economic activities that bring sustainability to both the environment and the economy by circulating resources business areas to solve various environmental issues. and products. Secondly, as a Group, we shall draw on internal *3 C  DP: formally called Carbon Disclosure Project. International and external strengths, combine them when required nongovernmental organization (NGO) that investigates, evaluates, to resolve difficult issues, and take on the challenge of and discloses the environmental efforts of companies and cities. *4 S  EGES: Social and Environmental Green Evaluation System: developing technologies and business innovations for Accreditation system for evaluating green efforts by the Organization future generations. for Landscape and Urban Green Infrastructure. Environmental Sustainability Vision 2050 Environmental Declaration Protect the air, land, and water with our hearts and technologies to sustain a better future for all. To solve various factors that lead to environment issues, the Mitsubishi Electric Group shall unite the wishes of each and every person, and strive to create new value for a sustainable future. Three Environmental Action Guidelines Apply diverse technologies in Challenge to develop Publicize and share new wide-ranging business areas business innovations for values and lifestyles to solve environmental issues future generations Key Initiatives Climate Change Measures Long-term Activities Understanding Needs Resource Circulation Innovation Co-create and Disseminate Live in Harmony with Nature Nurturing Human Resources New Values Live in Harmony with the Region 82 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social Three Environmental Action Guidelines 1 Apply diverse technologies in wide-ranging business areas to solve environmental issues The Mitsubishi Electric Group shall utilize diverse technological assets throughout wide-ranging business areas, and across the entire value chain, to solve various environmental issues, including climate change, resource recycling and coexisting harmoniously with nature. Key Activities Climate Change Measures ● Promoting and disseminating outstanding energy-saving products, systems, services and renewable energy businesses, together with our stakeholders, we will contribute to reducing greenhouse gases worldwide. ● Respecting long-term goals based on international agreements, we will promote the reduction of greenhouse gases throughout the value chain, from development, design, procurement of raw materials and production through sales, distribution, use and disposal. At present, our target is to reduce CO2 emissions 30% by 2030 and more than 80% by 2050. ● Observing changes in the global environment, we will provide solutions that contribute to minimizing the risks of natural disasters. Resource Circulation ● Reducing the size and weight of products, we will consider the use of recycled materials and recyclability rate of the products and systems we produce. ● Eliminating resource waste throughout the value chain, we will strive to maximize the effective use of resources. ● We will work to expand the supply of safe, clean water globally, as well as to enforce water treatment that does not pollute oceans and rivers. ● We will promote the effective use of water taking the water environment of each region into consideration. ● We will promote resource recycling businesses globally, such as reuse, repair of products/systems and waste reduction. ● We will aim to achieve 100% effective use of wastes, such as plastics, generated during manufacturing processes. Live in Harmony with Nature ● Throughout the Group, we will carry out activities to preserve biodiversity in the mountains, rivers, and oceans, and at all business sites, and promote the development of local environments and human resources to be passed to future generations. ● We will work to control, suppress, substitute, and properly dispose of harmful substances that may affect the natural environment. 2 Apply diverse technologies in wide-ranging business areas to solve environmental issues The Mitsubishi Electric Group shall utilize diverse technological assets throughout wide-ranging business areas, and across the entire value chain, to solve various environmental issues, including climate change, resource recycling and coexisting harmoniously with nature. Key Activities Long-term Activities ● We will set specific indices and action items while considering future prospects in the mid-term Environmental Plan formulated every three years. ● We will verify the validity of long-term goals approximately every five years, doing so considering international agreements, foreign affairs and business conditions. Innovation ● We will cooperate with other companies and institutions, and use our technological assets, technologies and business synergies to create innovative technologies and solutions. ● We will proactively adopt innovational technologies and solutions that enable us to lead manufacturing in future generations. Nurturing Human Resources ● We will foster a corporate culture in which employees, as ordinary citizens, take the initiative on creating new lifestyles in harmony with nature. ● We will develop highly specialized human resources who accept diverse values, and proactively work on environmental issues. 83 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social 3 Publicize and share new values and lifestyles The Mitsubishi Electric Group shall promote active dialogue, collaboration, and co-creation with all stakeholders, publicizing and sharing new values and lifestyles that will result in living comfortably, in harmony with nature. Key Activities Understanding Needs ● We will work to understand our customers’needs and expectations for the environment through sales activities, exhibitions, events, and other initiatives. ● We will hold discussions with stakeholders, and confirm the validity of our environmental targets and measures, to promote more effective environmental activities. Co-create and Disseminate New Values ● We will propose new lifestyles that provide the pleasure of contributing to the environment through the use of our products, systems, and services. Live in Harmony with the Region ● We will hold discussions with local residents and municipalities, and contribute to creating a better local environment, including Satoyama conservation and bio-diversity preservation activities at business sites. Environmental Activities for a Sustainable Future Mobility Lifes t y l es Safe and comfortable car lifefree Safe and effective railway systems Space harmonious with naturewhere Support next-generationcommunications from traffic accidents and congestion withhigh energy efficiency high energy efficiencyand amenity coexist withadvanced technologiess Buildings and cities equipped with Contribute to the supply of clean, Thorough reduction of CO2 and emissions Manufacturing that optimizesproductivity, environment-friendly infrastructures safe water for all from manufacturing processes quality Improvement, energy use, etc. I nf r a s t r u c t u r e Ind us t ry 84 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social Fiscal 2019 Environmental Topics Topic 1 Topic 3 Highest in CDP’ s“Climate change”and Received 5 awards in Energy Conserva“ Water”for 3rd consecutive years tion Grand Prize in 2019 We have been recognized by the CDP as an outstanding At the“FY2018 Energy Conservation Grand Prize for excellent company in its activities and strategies for reducing emissions energy conservation equipment”sponsored by The Energy and mitigating climate change, as well as its responses and Conservation Center, Japan (ECCJ), 4 entries in“Product and strategies for water resources. In fiscal 2017, 2018, and 2019, business model divisions”and 1 entry in“Energy-saving case Our Company was selected as one of the“ The A list ”for the study division”were awarded as below. highest evaluations in the“Climate change”and“ Water security”categories for 3rd consecutive years. In addition, it Product category & Business Model Category was selected as a“CDP Supplier Engagement Leader”in the “ Supply chain”this year. We continue to take active initiatives Director General Prize of Agency of Natural to realize a sustainable society. Resources and Energy Room Air Conditioners * CDP is an international NGO (nongovernmental organization) that surveys, evaluates, and discloses the environmental efforts of companies and cities. “Kirigamine Model 2019 FZ Series” Chairman Prize of ECCJ Package Air Conditioners for stores and offices “Mr. Slim ZR Series” Topic 2 Power Distribution Systems Center Acquires“SEGES”Certification Power Distribution Systems Center (Marugame Chairman Prize of ECCJ City, Kagawa Prefecture), has been certified as Compressors Built “SEGES Excellent Stage1*1”by Organization for in Showcases Landscape and Urban Green Infrastructure, with “Refrigerator and Freezer recognitions for its environmental efforts such as Flat SR-FF F Series” biotope development, green louver installation, and Satoyama conservation activities. Chairman Prize of ECCJ We will continue to strengthen greenery “New lighting control system (MILCO.NET) and high-efficiency power management activities and biodiversity SEGES supply” conservation activities, for the highest stage of Excellent Stage 1 Certification label Network lighting control system the certification. *1 SEGES Excellent Stage 1: Second step of four stages in three categories of SEGES (Social and Environmental Green Evaluation System) certifications; certification in this category is given to excellent preservation and creation activities in green areas of MILCO.NET more than 300m2 owned by the company. Lighting Lighting Network controller communication line Controller Relay Wall mount control unit slim Switch Amplifier Illuminance Lighting fixtre Amplifier sensor Wall mount with control Human sensor slim Switch function High efficiency power supply with DSP function Energy Conservation Activity Category Chairman Prize of ECCJ Biotope Green louver “Company-wide energy-saving activities through OJT” 85 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social Topic 4 Topic 5 Development of the“Technology to Construction of Net-Zero Energy Building Visualize Electricity Use by Each Home Test Facility Decided Appliance”Without the Need to Install In January 2019, Mitsubishi Electric announced a plan to build a Additional Measuring Instruments new test facility for net-Zero Energy Building (ZEB)-related technologies at its Information Technology R&D Center in In order to reduce residential energy consumption, it is important to Kamakura, Japan. It is scheduled to become operational in 2020. understand when and how much electricity is used by each ZEB is a building where net annual energy consumption is electrical/electronic home appliance. However, at present, it takes zero or near zero, with the primary power consumption offset by time and money to install a measuring instrument for each product. onsite energy generation (photovoltaic power, etc.). In such a Faced with this dilemma, in January 2019, Mitsubishi building, a comfortable indoor environment is maintained while Electric announced the“Technology to Visualize Power energy-saving measures such as advanced heat insulation, solar Consumption by Each Home Appliance” . The result of joint shading, and use of natural energy and high-efficiency equipment research with Tohoku Electric Power Co., Inc., this new solution are implemented. With this test facility, our goal is to realize makes use of Mitsubishi Electric's pioneering AI technology Maisart®*1 to estimate power consumption with a high degree ZEBs; in particular, focusing on the ability to generate sufficient of accuracy and doing so without the need to install new energy through equipment inside the building to cover all primary measuring instruments. Visualizing how electricity is being used energy consumption. could raise energy-saving awareness in the home and also help power companies offer new services. The solution has already been adopted by an energysaving assist service under the Customer-Assisted Smarter Project which Tohoku Electric Power Co., Inc. introduced in August 2018*2. *1 Maisart®: Stands for“Mitsaubishi Electric’ s AI creates the State-of-theART in Technology” . Our AI-technology brand that aims at smarter use of all devices. *2 See Tohoku Electric Power Co., Inc.’s news release at www.tohoku-epco. co.jp/news/normal/1197475_1049.html Estimation Learning Image of the ZEB test facility when completed As an official ZEB Planner,*1 Mitsubishi Electric is contributing to the dissemination of ZEBs by offering plans and operational support for companies that aspire to create a ZEB. The No need for construction of this test facility will help accelerate the new measuring development of ZEB-related technologies. We hope that the instruments Creates typical patterns of power sequential introduction of such technologies to our businesses consumption for each home will contribute to further energy savings and the creation of more Smart Meter appliance comfortable living spaces. Additionally, we will promote technological development based on our“ZEB+®*2”solution, which enables further sophistication of buildings, including Typical services to maintain values such as productivity, comfort, userpatterns friendliness and continual operations throughout the lifecycle of the building. Calculates power Shows power *1 Registration system set up by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry (METI) in consumption of the consumption of each 2017 with the aim of disseminating ZEBs. entire house home appliance *2 A solution offered by Mitsubishi Electric Note: ZEB+® is a registered trademark of Mitsubishi Electric. Selects attribute information and similar patterns of power consumption of entire houses 0:00 12:00 24:00 0:00 12:00 24:00 Others Refrigerator TV Air conditioner 86 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social Environmental Considerations for Value Chain Management Design/ ● Implementing Design for the Environment from the perspective shown below Development ● Manufacturing process ●Lifecycle assessments ●Energy Conservation ●Packaging ●Product crushing ● Service life ●Logistics ●Information disclosure ●Weight reduction ●Product safety ●Resource reuse ● Reusability ● Recovery/Transport ● Ease of dismantling/separation of materials Procurement ● Reducing Environmental Risk through Operation of the Green Accreditation System ● Promoting Emission Reduction of Four Greenhouse Gases (CO2, SF6, HFC, and PFC) ● Pursuing Reduction in Resource Inputs and Improvement in Waste Materials Final Disposal Rate ● Focusing on Reduction of Water Usage at All Business Sites in Japan and Overseas Production Solar power generation system utilizing roofs Water recycling facility Packaging/ ● Reducing Use of Disposable Packaging Materials by Practicing the 3Rs:Reduce, Reuse and Recycle Transportation ● Promoting Strain-free, Waste-free, Seamless Product Transportation ● Reducing CO2 Emissions from Product Usage by Improving Product Energy Efficiency ● Providing Information and Solutions in SupUsage port of Customers’Initiatives to Reduce Environmental Load Example of introducing energy-saving system installation www.MitsubishiElectric.co.jp/shoene/step/index.html (Japanese web site) ● Recovering and Recycling Used Home Appliances at Disposal/ Specialized Recycling Plants Recycling ● Promoting Self-contained Plastic Recycling System Different types of crushed plastic from used products 87 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social Overall Environmental Impact Period: April 1, 2018 March 31, 2019 Scope of Data Compilation: Mitsubishi Electric Corporation and its major affiliates (Japan and overseas) Material Balance IN OUT Materials for Manufacturing Emissions (From Manufacturing) Mitsubishi Affiliates Affiliates Mitsubishi Mitsubishi Affiliates Affiliates Mitsubishi Electric (Japan) (Overseas) Electric Group Electric (Japan) (Overseas) Electric Group Discharge Materials *1 1,140,000 tons 290,000 tons 1,390,000 tons 2,820,000 tons Water 5,710,000 m3 1,420,000 m3 1,410,000 m3 8,540,000 m3 Manufacturing into water Controlled chemical 2.0 tons 0.0 tons 6.0 tons 8.0 tons substances *3 Electricity 1,000 million kWh 350 million kWh 470 million kWh 1,900 million kWh 570,000 190,000 370,000 1,130,000 Natural gas 23,900,000 m 3 2,340,000 m 3 13,670,000 m 3 39,910,000 m 3 Carbon dioxide (CO2) tons-CO2 tons-CO2 tons-CO2 tons-CO2 Emissions into LPG 1,006 tons 1,992 tons 676 tons 3,674 tons Controlled chemical substances *3 179 tons 275 tons 427 tons 881 tons Oil (crude oil equivalent) 741 kl 2,362 kl 560 kl 3,663 kl Ozone depleting substances 0.0 ODP tons 0.0 ODP tons 0.1 ODP tons 0.1 ODP tons the atmosphere Water 7,060,000 m3 1,790,000 m3 2,030,000 m3 10,880,000 m3 Greenhouse gases 35,000 30,000 110,000 180,000 Public water 1,260,000 m3 460,000 m3 670,000 m3 2,390,000 m3 tons-CO2 tons-CO2 tons-CO2 tons-CO2 2,050,000 m3 80,000 m3 1,340,000 m3 3,470,000 m3 Industrial water Groundwater 3,690,000 m3 1,240,000 m3 17,000 m3 4,950,000 m3 Factory Volatile organic compounds 501 tons 275 tons 223 tons 999 tons Waste Others 66,000 m3 0 m3 3,000 m3 69,000 m3 Total waste emissions 86,569 tons 49,682 tons 76,501 tons 212,752 tons Reuse of water 3,430,000 m3 980,000 m3 170,000 m3 4,680,000 m3 Amount recycled 77,050 tons 36,071 tons 59,646 tons 172,767 tons Controlled chemical substances 1,725 tons 1,447 tons 1,059 tons 4,231 tons Non-hazardous waste emissions 85,385 tons 49,053 tons 71,092 tons 205,530 tons (amounts handled) *2 Hazardous waste emissions 1,184 tons 629 tons 5,409 tons 7,222 tons Ozone depleting substances Waste treatment subcontracted out 18,701 tons 19,083 tons 74,412 tons 112,196 tons (amounts handled) 0.5 tons 0.2 tons 202 tons 203 tons Final disposal 1.1 tons 3.7 tons 399 tons 404 tons Greenhouse gases In-house weight reduction 449 tons 0.0 tons 8.1 tons 457 tons (amounts handled) 3,312 tons 59 tons 4,865 tons 8,237 tons Volatile organic Products compounds 1,305 tons 1,097 tons 375 tons 2,777 tons Weight of all Products sold *4 1,000,000 tons 230,000 tons 1,170,000 tons 2,390,000 tons (amounts handled) Weight of packaging materials 55,000 tons 8,000 tons 148,000 tons 210,000 tons *1 Materials: Total value for shipping weight of products, plus amount of product packaging materials used, *3 Mitsubishi Electric and its affiliates in Japan: Chemical substances subjected to be controlled per PRTR Law. plus total amount of waste. Overseas affiliates: Chemical substances of 18kg or more in handled volume, and controlled by Mitsubishi Electric. *2 Mitsubishi Electric and its affiliates in Japan: Chemical substances subjected to be controlled per PRTR Law. *4 Products sold: Shipping weight of products. Overseas affiliates: Chemical substances of 18kg or more in handled volume, and controlled by Mitsubishi Electric. Sales and Logistics *5 Emissions *6 Mitsubishi Affiliates Affiliates Mitsubishi Mitsubishi Affiliates Affiliates Mitsubishi Electric (Japan) (Overseas) Electric Group Electric (Japan) (Overseas) Electric Group Fuel for trucks (gasoline) 10,548 kl 1,446 kl 111 kl 12,105 kl 99,000 17,000 280,000 390,000 Fuel for trucks (diesel) 27,022 kl 5,027 kl 24,564 kl 56,613 kl Logistics Carbon dioxide (CO2) tons-CO2 tons-CO2 tons-CO2 tons-CO2 *6 Emissions: Includes one sales company in Japan. Figures for overseas affiliated companies Fuel for rail (electricity) 1,186 MWh 456 MWh 0.0 MWh 1,642 MWh include transportation between countries. Fuel for marine transport (bunker oil) 427 kl 1.0 kl 73,060 kl 73,488 kl Fuel for air transport (jet fuel) 653 kl 25 kl 129 kl 807 kl *5 Sales and logistics: Figures for overseas affiliated companies include transportation between countries. Energy Consumption Emissions Mitsubishi Affiliates Affiliates Mitsubishi Mitsubishi Affiliates Affiliates Mitsubishi Electric (Japan) (Overseas) Electric Group Electric (Japan) (Overseas) Electric Group Energy consumed 47,400 4,400 24,600 76,400 Amount of CO2 emitted during 23,600,000 2,230,000 10,680,000 36,510,000 during product use *7 million kWh million kWh million kWh million kWh product use (converted value) *8 tons-CO2 tons-CO2 tons-CO2 tons-CO2 *7 Energy consumed during product use: Total energy consumed (estimated value) when using 75 finished products Products Amount of SF6 emitted during 110,000 0.0 0.0 110,000 targeted for CO 2 reduction. (Customer) product use (corresponding value) *9 tons-CO2 tons-CO2 tons-CO2 tons-CO2 The length of use (operating time) is set for each product according to statutory useful life, designed service life, statistical values, etc. *8 Amount of CO 2 emitted during product use (converted value): Sum of CO 2 emitted when using 81 finished products targeted for CO 2 reduction. The amount of CO 2 emitted is equal to the energy consumed multiplied by the CO 2 emissions coefficient, for which the value shown in CO 2 Emissions from Fuel Combustion Highlights (2013 Edition) is used. *9 Amount of SF 6 emitted during product use (corresponding value): Sum of SF 6 gas naturally leaked during the operation of products (6) that use SF 6 gas for insulation. Leakage rate used is the value from JEAC5001-2000. Global warming potential value used is from the 2nd Revised Guidelines of the IPCC. End-of-Life Products *10 Resources Recovered *11 Mitsubishi Mitsubishi Air conditioners Electric 18,543 tons Recycling Metals Electric 32,023 tons Televisions 3,034 tons Glass 665 tons *11 Resources recovered: Refrigerators 24,785 tons CFCs 352 tons Weight of resources recovered from four types of appliances subject to Japan's Home Appliance Washing machines / Clothes dryers 6,249 tons *10 End-of-Life Products: Weight of products recovered Others 10,709 tons Recycling Law, plus personal computers. Personal computers from four types of appliances subject to Japan's Home 50 tons Appliance Recycling Law, plus personal computers. 88 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social Value Chain Greenhouse Gas Emissions The Mitsubishi Electric Group refers to regulations such Japan’ s Ministry of the Environment, to determine how as the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol—an international to assess and calculate emissions from business activities standard for calculating greenhouse gas emissions—and (scopes 1 and 2, respectively) and indirect emissions from the Basic Guidelines on Accounting for Greenhouse Gas outside the range of its business activities (Scope 3). Emissions Throughout the Supply Chain published by Fiscal 2019 Greenhouse Gas Emissions The“★”symbol denotes Mitsubishi Electric Group greenhouse gas emissions for which third-party verification has been carried out by SGS Japan Inc. Accounting / 10,000 Scope Category tons-CO2 Accounting summary*1 (Scope 3 Emission Rates) Scope1 Direct emissions associated with fuel use at our company ★ 30 Direct emissions from fuel use and industrial processes at our company*2 Scope2 Indirect emissions associated with use of Indirect emissions associated with use externally-purchased electricity and heating of electricity and heat purchased by our company*3 Market based ★ 98 Calculated using power emission coefficient based on contract Location based ★ 102 Calculated using average power-generation emission coefficient within the zone Scope3 Indirect emissions outside the scope of our company’ s operational activities Category 1 Purchased goods and services ★ 705 (16％) Emissions associated with activities up to the manufacturing of materials, etc. relating to raw materials, parts, purchased products, and sales*4 Category 2 Capital goods 77 (1.7％) Emissions generated by the construction and manufacturing of own capital goods Fueland energy-related activities Category 3 not included in Scope 1 or Scope 2 8.7 (0.2％) Emissions associated with procurement of fuel necessary for power generation, heat supply, etc. and power such as electricity supplied by other parties Category 4 Upstream transportation and distribution 40 (0.9％) Emissions associated with logistic processes up to the delivery to our company of materials, etc. relating to raw materials, parts, purchased products, and sales*5 Category 5 Waste generated in operations 0.03 (0％) Emissions associated with transporting and processing waste produced by our company*6 Category 6 Business travel ★ 3.9 (0.1％) Emissions associated with employee business travel*7 Category 7 Employee commuting ★ 3.0 (0.1％) Emissions associated with employees commuting to and from their respective workplaces*8 Emissions associated with operation of leased assets hired by our Category 8 Upstream leased assets − company (Calculated by Mitsubishi Electric under Scope 1 and Scope 2) Downstream transportation Category 9 and distribution 0.6 (0 ％) Emissions associated with the transportation, storage, cargo handling and retailing of products Category 10 Processing of sold products 0.2 (0％) Emissions associated with the processing of interim products by business operators ★ 3,645 (81％) Emissions associated with the use of products by users (consumers / Category 11 Use of sold products business operators) Category 12 End-of-life treatment of sold products 3.0 (0.1％) Emissions associated with the transportation and processing of products for disposal by users (consumers/business operators)*4 Category 13 Downstream leased assets 0.02 (0％) Emissions associated with operation of leased assets Emissions at companies operating as franchises Category 14 Franchises − (Not applicable to Mitsubishi Electric) Category 15 Investments 7.3 (0.2％) Emissions associated with operation of investments Scope 3 total 4,493 (100％) *1 Excerpt from Basic Guidelines published by the Japanese Ministry of the Environment *5 CO2 emissions associated with product distribution/circulation (sales distribution) and Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry Subject to accounting: 55 companies (production sites) *2 CO2, SF6, HFC, and PFC emissions associated with the use of gas, heavy oil, etc., *6 CO2 emissions associated with transportation of waste (waste distribution) and with product manufacturing Subject to accounting: Mitsubishi Electric *3 CO2 emissions associated with the use of electricity, etc. *7 Results for Japan. Excludes CO2 emissions associated with actual use of taxis *4 Excludes some regions and accommodation *8 Assuming that all employees use passenger rail services 89 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social Contribution to Reducing Effective Utilization of CO2 from Product Usage Resources We believe that reducing the electricity consumed by products In fiscal 2019, we continued to focus on reducing our final when customers use them should lead to energy savings disposal ratio. Toward a target final disposal ratio of 0.5% or for society as a whole. Based on this perspective, we are less, improvements were made by implementing initiatives committed to improving the energy efficiency of our products. to promote sorting, recycling, biomass processing of organic In fiscal 2019, we continued to improve the efficiency of our wastes, and using the methane gas extracted during the products, with a focus on power devices and air conditioners, biomass process as fuel. as well as the sales of highly energy-efficient products. As a The amount of waste was also reduced in Japan by making result, we improved our average CO2 reduction rate from the sure that hazardous wastes* are appropriately disposed of previous fiscal year, achieving 36% compared to the level in according to laws and regulations while actively promoting fiscal 2001. recycling. The amount of waste overseas, however, increased. * The Mitsubishi Electric Group defines hazardous wastes as follows: Reducing CO2 from Product Usage Mitsubishi Electric and affiliates in Japan: “Specially-controlled industrial wastes” specified by the Japanese Waste Disposal Law. through Improving Energy Efficiency Overseas affiliates: Hazardous wastes defined by local laws and regulations. CO2 CO2 35% reduction 36% reduction Total Waste Output Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2019 Fiscal 2018 We are also trying to expand the reduction of CO2 by visualizing Fiscal 2019 Mitsubishi Electric 8.8 Mitsubishi Electric 8.7 the amount reduced as a result of replacing old products with their new counterparts that operate with higher energy efficiency. In fiscal 2019, contribution to reducing CO2 from Affiliates in Japan 4.6 Affiliates in Japan 5.0 product usage grew to 77 million tons. Contribution to Reducing CO2 = Effect of reducing Overseas affiliates 8.1 Overseas affiliates 7.7 CO2 from product usage per unit × Number of units sold during the fiscal year 10,000 tons Contribution to Reducing CO2 from Product Usage Hazardous Wastes Emissions CO2 CO2 Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2019 7,1 million ton 77 million ton Mitsubishi Electric 2,612 Mitsubishi Electric 1,184 reduction Fiscal 2018 reduction Fiscal 2019 Affiliates in Japan 649 Affiliates in Japan 629 Reducing CO2 from Production Overseas affiliates 5,042 Overseas affiliates 5,409 tons Owing to the introduction of high-efficiency devices, switching fuels, and making thorough progress in waste elimination, CO2 Final Disposal Ratio emissions originating from energy which were expected to increase 100,000 tons due to rising production were controlled Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2019 to an increase of 50,000 tons. In addition, we replaced nonCO2 greenhouse gases (SF6, HFC and PFC) with gases having lower global-warming potential and increased the amount of gases recovered during manufacturing processes. Consequently, Mitsubishi Electric 0.001% Mitsubishi Electric 0.001% emissions of non-CO2 gases have also been reduced. CO2 Emissions from Production Affiliates in Japan 0.01% Affiliates in Japan 0.01% 127 130 * Overseas affiliates 0.59% Overseas affiliates 0.52% 19 18 Non-CO2 108 greenhouse gases 113 CO2 originating 10,000t-CO2 from energy 10,000t-CO2 Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2019 * Emissions of CO2 and non-CO2 greenhouse gases are displayed in whole numbers after being rounded off to the nearest integer. As a result, there is a difference between the sum of these figures and total greenhouse gas emissions. 90 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social Chemical Management Reducing Resource Inputs and Reduced Disposal In fiscal 2019, there were steady reductions in resource inputs Chemical substances contained in our products are controlled for all products in all segments. Consequently, an average using a chemical management system called MelHARoreduction rate for the 64 target products was 45%, which was Web, which incorporates materials and parts procurement an improvement compared to the previous fiscal year. information both in and outside of Japan. By December 2018, we finished conducting contents surveys and completed switching to replacement substances for all products for which four phthalate compounds will be newly restricted by the EU Reducing Resource Inputs RoHS Directive in July 2019. Volume of Chemicals Handled* 40% reduction 45% reduction Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2019 Mitsubishi Electric 1,505 Mitsubishi Electric 1,725 Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2019 Affiliates in Japan 1,424 Affiliates in Japan 1,447 Overseas affiliates 1,323 Overseas affiliates 5,409 Using Water Effectively tons * Mitsubishi Law”. Electric and its affiliates in Japan: Chemical substances subject to the “PRTR Overseas affiliates: Chemical substances of 18kg or more in handled volume that are In fiscal 2019, we carried out initiatives to save water in controlled by Mitsubishi Electric. Japan and overseas, including reusing the water used during manufacturing processes, treating wastewater and using it for flushing toilets, and using rainwater. Total Water Usage (Water Recycling Volume) Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2019 Mitsubishi Electric 1,080(329) Mitsubishi Electric 1,049(343) Affiliates in Japan 269(107) Affiliates in Japan 277 (98) Overseas affiliates 211 (17) Overseas affiliates 219 (17) 10,000 m 3 The Environment Section Environmental information is introduced in detail in the environment section of the website and “Environmental Performance Review.” https://www.MitsubishiElectric.com/en/sustainability Environment Website Environmental Performance Review 91 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social Responsibility to Customers Basic Policy The Mitsubishi Electric Group is committed to improving Seven Guiding Principles define our actions in response its technologies and services by applying creativity to all to society and customers. It teaches us to establish aspects of its business, to thereby enhance the quality relationships based on trust, provide the best products of life in our society, as stated in our corporate mission. and services with unsurpassed quality, and respond to This commitment inherits the principles outlined in the customer expectations through technology by promoting Keys to Management (in Japanese, Keiei no Yotei) with research and development and pioneering new markets. regard to our contribution to social prosperity, quality Under these principles, we constantly strive to improvement, and customer satisfaction, and forms increase customer satisfaction and contribute to social the basic spirit of our relationship with society and our prosperity in all aspects of our business, from the customers. production of high-quality, easy-to-use products to our To give concrete shape to this basic spirit, the after-purchase support and response to major issues. Four Basic Quality Assurance Principles The Four Basic Quality Assurance Principles reflect the serving society through steady quality continues to be spirit of Service through Quality adopted in 1952 and upheld by each employee of the Mitsubishi Electric Group Memorandum of Quality issued in 1958. The spirit of up to the present day. ＜Four Basic Quality Assurance Principles＞ 1. Product quality is our top priority. It comes before price and on-time delivery. 2. Our commitment to the highest quality under any circumstances is unwavering. 3. Products must be safe to use, have a long usage life, and have consistent performance. 4. Every manager and employee involved in manufacturing a product shares equal responsibility for product quality. * No reasonable effort should be spared in the pursuit of good quality. Management System Based on the Four Basic Quality Assurance Principles, including the appointment of a quality assurance promotion we have established Promotion of QualityaAssurance system forand quality assuranceActivities and Improvement manager in all business group headquarters. We have improvement activities throughout (in Mitsubishi Electric Corporation) the entire Group, also formulated quality assurance guidelines to ensure compliance with quality assurance legislation and standards President and further develop quality improvement activities. Worldwide manufacturing bases take responsibility for Executive Officer in Charge of Quality Assurance the quality assurance of each product and are implementing Business Group Business Group Executive concrete improvement initiatives in relation to quality Officers’ Meeting General Manager General Manager of Business Group of Business Group assurance measures (quality management) for processes Head Office at each stage, from market surveys regarding Mitsubishi Corporate Quality Assurance Quality Assurance Quality Assurance Liaison Committee Manager Manager Electric products, through product planning, development Corporate Quality and design, manufacturing, transportation, storage, Assurance Managers’ Factory Factory installation, maintenance and servicing, and education, to Planning Department Committee Factory Manager Factory Manager the disposal of the product. Quality Assurance Quality Assurance In addition, in operating our Quality Management Manager Manager System (QMS), we regularly check our PDCA cycle with Individual quality improvement projects and activities reference to ISO and other international certification standards, seeking to realize ever higher quality by process Promotion of Quality Assurance and Improvement Activities improvement. (Mitsubishi Electric) 92 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social Product Safety-related Principles Based on the Corporate Statement and the Seven Guiding initiatives to ensure product safety under the following Principles, the Mitsubishi Electric Group promotes principles: ＜Product Safety-related Principles＞ 1. We will not only comply with the laws related to product safety, but also work on offering safe and reliable products to our customers. 2. We will prevent product-related accidents by indicating cautions and warnings to help customers use our products safely. 3. We will work actively to collect information about product-related problems, disclose them appropriately to our customers, and report them quickly to the government and other bodies as required under the law. 4. If any serious accidents occur resulting from product-related problems, we will take appropriate measures to avoid further damage. 5. We will investigate the cause of product-related accidents and work to prevent any recurrence. 6. We will make continuous efforts to improve our product safety promotion system. Particularly in regard to consumer products, Mitsubishi products are prone to break or be discarded). At the Electric is committed to preventing serious hazards that same time, our Customer Service Center in Japan operates could result in death, injury, fire, or other damage, by 24 hours a day, 365 days a year, to assist customers and subjecting all products to a quantitative risk assessment gather their views about Mitsubishi Electric products. at the development stage, while also designing and Furthermore, we disclose accident information, including developing products in consideration of their end-of-life information on the status of ongoing investigations, on our management (to ensure safety even at the stage where Japanese official website. Quality Improvement Activities The Mitsubishi Electric Group incorporates the promotion initiatives were also launched in fiscal 2012 for onsite of quality into products from the design and development verification of operational processes (design, procurement, stage, promotes activities to improve quality in all production), responses to failures and legal compliance, processes—including manufacturing, shipping and afterand management of laws, regulations and standards. sales service—and works to improve product quality, safety We have also built a database for sharing qualityand reliability. related information that is used by the entire company. In particular, initiatives were launched in fiscal It consists of information provided by prior employees 2012 to develop human resources who are capable on past problems, lessons learned, explanations, and of assessing and verifying customer requests and basic examples of improvements that have been made, and product functions at the development and design stages, it has proven effective in helping to build quality into understanding designs that ensure and guarantee products, implement quality improvement measures, functionality, stability, safety and reliability, and executing prevent the occurrence or recurrence of problems, and and driving the process of incorporating and designing train young engineers. Based on cases where there were quality. These initiatives are being pursued in all relevant problems, we also developed an e-learning tool called departments in Japan with an eye to achieving their Learning from Problems and installed a quality room in intended achievements in human resource development by each office for the display of actual quality defects found in fiscal 2021. products in the past, to supplement employee education. With regard to affiliates in Japan and overseas that Furthermore, we are achieving effective quality engage in production, installation and maintenance, improvements by visualizing quality in all production processes from the design to production and after-sales service stages, ensuring prompt response to malfunctions and preventing them from occurring, and providing feedback of these initiatives to the development and design departments. Quality room Quality room Learning from Failure (Database of past incidents and lessons) This program is set up so that users can systematically browse and utilize lessons, precautions, improvement case studies, and countermeasures from a managerial perspective and the perspective of their technological field. Entrance Inside the room 93 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social Providing Easy-to-Use Products Basic Policy The Mitsubishi Electric Group engages in universal design comfortable living in the true sense of the words, we are under the principle of creating user-friendly products committed to providing products and living environments and comfortable living environments that benefit as many that offer a high level of satisfaction to as many people as people as possible. To achieve user-friendliness and possible. Mitsubishi Electric Group’ s Efforts in Universal Design We have applied the concept of universal design (UD) to considering the needs of all users. This approach is home appliances such as air conditioners and televisions, continuing to evolve. as well as to public equipment such as elevators, through ◦U  ni & Eco: The Uni & Eco business strategy was ◦ SMART QUALITY: We are also advancing the RakuRaku developed for home appliances in fiscal 2005 as a Assist strategy in our SMART QUALITY efforts. This started philosophy that combines Uni, or universal design, in fiscal 2013 as an initiative to improve the quality of (the aim of which is to achieve accessibility for all future lives by connecting societies, livelihoods, products, users), with Eco, meaning ecological soundness that is and people through smart, connected, and wasteperceivable, achievable, and communicable. eliminating technologies. ◦ RakuRaku Assist: By raising the target demographic to people in their 70s starting in fiscal 2011, we developed the RakuRaku Assist business strategy. The aim is to enable more people to freely and easily take advantage of the latest convenient features. Mitsubishi Electric Group’s Efforts in Universal Design（Timeline） 2000 2005 2010 2015 2020 Uni & Eco SMART QUALITY RakuRaku Assist UD-Checker Ver Ver Ver 2.0 3.0 4.0 Concentrated Emphasis on data usage Manage GUI, installation, management and usability. maintenance, and of data on the server Revised level of evaluation detail. workability in a single app. UD Guidelines Ver Ver Ver 2.0 3.0 4.0 Added guidelines for Added the need to Added consideration for creating voice guidance consider children simplifying installation and maintenance * Graphic User Interface 94 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social Universal Design Examples to Date Application to home appliances Mitsubishi Electric has been ahead of the game in Design Guidelines to the RakuRaku-IH Cooking Heater applying the concepts of universal design (UD) to home cooking equipment. appliances. For instance, we have applied the Universal ◦U  sing a simple control plate with few buttons, the ◦A  nother innovation was adding the benefit of voicedesign features button sizes and text displays that are generated control assistance and alerts. both large. ◦ Human sensors that monitor the surroundings of the ◦ We made the order of basic controls for IH cooking IH unit have also been integrated into the equipment. easier to understand by displaying numbers. Moreover, The unit emits spoken alerts if no one is around during we clarified the heat-intensity display by adopting cooking or to give warnings of overheating. simple words like strong and weak. RakuRaku-IH Cooking Heater CS-G20AKS Large characters & numerical indicators of steps for use Safety sensor & audio support <Features> <Features> ◦ Characters are approximately 1.8* times the size ◦ Built-in sensor checks for people in vicinity. of our conventional system. (Compared with ◦ Offers audio support for ease of operation. Mitsubishi Electric's conventional model G38MS) ◦ Can be operated simply by pressing buttons in order of numbers displayed. Safety sensor & audio support Large-character buttons & numerical indication of steps for use 95 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social Application to the industrial sector Even in the industrial sector, where there is a high level of universal design. At Mitsubishi Electric, we are applying specialization and a relative lack of diversity in terms of the concept of universal design (UD) in our industrial operators who handle equipment, the labor environment products, such as factory automation (FA) equipment and is changing. Examples of this transformation include the electric power devices, as well as to the installation and aging of workers, and more foreign and inexperienced maintenance of equipment on factory floors. workers – changes that have increased the need for We are also employing the Universal Design Guidelines for sequencers in FA equipment. ◦E  asy-to-understand expressions, such as printed ◦B  y showing the text in both English and Japanese designs that are images of actual objects, make the hierarchically for easy understanding, inexperienced displayed content more intuitive. workers can easily identify the cause of on-site ◦ The unit employs a large UD font display and malfunctions. offers good contrast against the background color, ◦ Operability has been improved by employing the considering people with impaired color vision. cabinet design, to feature a larger, more spread-out surface for the enlarged control portion. Print design illustrating the actual wiring Presentation with consideration for persons with impaired color vision Easy to understand information display The enlarged control portion has improved operability 96 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social UD-Checker, the universal design evaluation system UD-Checker is Mitsubishi Electric’ s proprietary tool The UD-Checker’ s four evaluation criteria that can be used by both industrial designers and 1. R  ecognition: consideration for ease of understanding engineers to evaluate for universal design (UD) qualities. 2. Identification: consideration for ease of reading and/or This tool shows four quantitative measures of UD, hearing namely recognition, identification, physical use, and 3. Physical use: consideration for comfortable posture and safety/usability, indicating specific design aspects for minimum physical load development and improving the efficiency of product 4. Safety/usability: consideration for usability without development. The UD-Checker is used on a wide variety danger or operating errors. of Mitsubishi Electric products from home appliances and public equipment to industrial equipment. The UD-Checker s four evaluation criteria Consideration for ease of Consideration for Consideration for usability Recognition Consideration for Identification reading and/or hearing Physical use comfortable posture and Safety/ without danger or ease of understanding minimum physical load usability operating errors. E.g.) E.g.) Buttons with easy-to-understand functions Large characters easy even for E.g.) (Television remote control with record function) aged persons to read A rice cooker that considers safety by preventing the danger steam burns We have named Main characters/numbers the buttons after E.g.) their functions (what the user Handle design that 電源 wants to do) allows optimized gripping 7.5 mm or more options for various *Rovi, G-GUIDE, and the cleaning scenarios G-GUIDE logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of Power Rovi Corporation in the United States and/or its affiliates in Japan. The UD-Checker’ s four evaluation criteria Results sheet is automatically output based on the entry into the check items Universal Design Guidelines for widespread usability The Universal Design Guidelines are a set of standards guidelines on changes that occur to human characteristics that apply to a wide range of product development, and with age and that consider disabilities. The guidelines were formulated based on the expertise gained through are structured in the same way as the UD-Checker, using the UD-Checker. To promote greater usability which incorporates the four perspectives of recognition, of our products by all users, including children, senior identification, physical use, and safety/usability. citizens, and people with physical disabilities, we created 97 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social Creating easy-to-understand instruction manuals Under a campaign to provide first-rate instruction manuals, original Guidelines for the creation of instruction manuals Mitsubishi Electric Group is directing its efforts to creating for home appliances—Instructions. To raise the quality easy-to-read and easy-to-understand instruction manuals level of instruction manuals, this handbook is distributed to ensure the safe and comfortable use of our products. to all affiliates in Japan who handle home appliances. Forming the basis of this effort is Mitsubishi Electric's Example instruction manual: Mitsubishi Electric Kirigamine FL Series room air conditioners Our Quick Guide (Basic Operations) enlarges each button, large font sizes and ample margins make the explanations allowing users to recognize at a glance which button they extremely easy to understand. should push on their remote control. In addition to this, Instruction manual for Mitsubishi Electric Kirigamine FL Series room air conditioners (Japanese only) 早わかりガイド（基本操作） 風あて・風よけ・ムラなし ムーブアイが人の位置を検知し、人を中心とした空調を行います。 ご エアコンを使ってみる 使 風あて ：人のいるエリアを中心に風を届けます。 用 の 運転を開始する 風よけ ：風あたり感を少なくします。 前 運転モード ムラなし ：人のよくいるエリアを学習し、その生活エリアの温度ムラを に 抑えます。 冷房・暖房兼用セパレート形（インバーター） を押す 風あて・風よけ・ムラなしを選択した場合、左右風向・上下風向は自動 三菱ルームエアコン 設定温度 で働きます。 または運転モードボタン 風あて・風よけ 使 使 い を押す い か を押す か INSTRUCTION MANUAL た を押したときは前回と同じ運転を行います。 押すごとに 解除 の順に変わります。 た 取 扱 説 明 書 使 い か 風あて 風よけ 形名 た エム エス ゼット エフエル エス エム エス ゼット エフエル エス MSZ-FL2818 MSZ-FL3618 温度や除湿の強さを変える ※ご購入時の設定は 「風あて」 です。 MSZ-FL4018S MSZ-FL5618S MSZ-FL6318S MSZ-FL7118S を押して温度、除湿の強さを ムラなし エム エス ゼット エフエル ブイ エス エム エス ゼット エフエルブイ エス 調節する MSZ-FLV2818 MSZ-FLV3618S お を押す MSZ-FLV4018S MSZ-FLV5618S 押すごとに温度は0.5℃ずつ、除湿の強さは１段階ずつ 手 変わります。 入 MSZ-FLV6318S MSZ-FLV7118S れ 設定できる範囲 押すごとに 解除 の順に変わります。 ＜冷房・暖房＞ ＜除湿＞ ムラなし 詳 し く 温度：16〜31℃ 除湿の強さ： 知 り 除湿運転時、お部屋の温度はやや下がります。 た い おしらせ ● 体感を「切」 に設定すると、風あて・風よけ・ムラなしは設定できません。 21ページ 困 運転を停止する ● 風左右・風上下を調節すると、風あて・風よけ・ムラなしは解除されます。 14ページ っ ● 個別の体感温度コントロール た ・風あて設定時に2つの離れたエリアにいる人の体感温度に差があるときは、上下風向フラップの角度を自動で調整して風の強さを と 変えることにより、個別の体感温度コントロールを行います。 き を押す ・前後に隣接したエリアに人がいるときや3か所以上のエリアに人がいるときは、個別の体感温度コントロールを行いません。 このたびは三菱ルームエアコンをお買い求めいただきまして、 まことにありがとう この製品は、日本国内用に設計されていますので、国外では に ● 風あては冷房では頭上、暖房では足元に向ける風向になり、直接体にはあたらないことがあります。 風よけを設定しても、風あたりが気になる場合は風左右・風上下で風向をお好みに調節してください。 ございます。 使用できません。 ● ● ご使用の前に、この取扱説明書をよくお読みになり、正しくお使いください。 また、アフターサービスもできません。 （上ブタを開いた状態） ● 引越しやお部屋の模様替えをした場合、生活エリアをリセットしてください。 ● 保証書は 「お買上げ日・販売店名」 などの記入を確かめて、販売店からお受け This appliance is designed for use in Japan only 運転中にリモコンの を約5秒間長押しすると ピピッ と鳴り、生活エリアがリセットされます。 取りください。 and can not be used in any other country. ● 「取扱説明書」 と 「保証書」 は大切に保存してください。 No servicing is available outside of Japan. 運転の詳細は 26、27ページ 停止中にリモコンの を約3秒間長押しすると、お掃除アシストになります。 22ページ ● お客さまご自身では据付けないでください。 （安全や機能の確保ができません） 12 13 Quick Guide (Basic operations) Award received In fiscal 2019, following the International Association series: Gathers InterNavi Premium, as well as the Silver for Universal Design (IAUD)’ s evaluations of Mitsubishi Award for the Cordless Stick Vacuum Cleaner JXH iNSTICK Electric’ s developments based on experiments targeting ZUBAQ. various users, we won a total of eight awards at the IAUD Mitsubishi Electric aims in fiscal 2020 to continue International Design Awards. The accolades included the creating universal design products that take ingenious Gold Award for the small refrigerator for hospital patient approaches and consider various perspectives across a use, full-color LED displays in railcars, and Car navigation broad range of fields. Small refrigerator for hospital Full-color LED displays for Car navigation series: Gathers Cordless Stick Vacuum Cleaner patient use railcars InterNavi Premium JXH iNSTICK ZUBAQ 98 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social Increasing Customer Satisfaction Basic Policy Customer satisfaction has been a priority management customer satisfaction surveys as appropriate to principle of the Mitsubishi Electric Group since its the characteristics of each business operation, and founding in 1921. Inheriting this spirit, we will continue incorporate customer opinions into improving product to make dedicated efforts to satisfy customer needs in development, marketing strategies, and services. all aspects of our business activities, from the creation of We also strive to maintain customer satisfaction high-quality, easy-to-use products to our after-purchase by strengthening our repair/service systems, providing Flow of responses to customereffective support and response to major issues. inquiries staff training, and expanding access to We collect feedback from our customers through information via our websites. Inquiry concerning a purchasing Provision of inquiry matter information Customer Relations Center Works Response Provision of product knowledge Inquiry concerning Request Repair and request for servicing Design Customer repair for repair company Provision of Store repair (distributor) Service information Response Response Call Center Manufacture Onsite Feedback of Request for repair repair improvement information Quality Response Walk-in and technical repair knowledge Flow of responses to customer inquiries (Mitsubishi Electric) CS Activities by the Home Appliances Group (in Japan) The Living Environment & Digital Media Equipment Group are satisfied with the Mitsubishi Electric product they handles matters related to home appliances and carries purchase, and strives to increase the number of such out customer satisfaction (CS) improvement activities in satisfied customers. Japan. It makes sure that customers across the country The beginning of CS activities related to home appliances The CS Department at Mitsubishi Electric was established enhance its products, marketing strategies, and services. in Japan in July 1993. In addition to assuring product Each works conducts satisfaction surveys of its major quality and optimum product usability and functionality, products using questionnaires to product purchasers and the department engages in CS improvement activities questionnaires to employee monitors. The results of these with strong awareness of the significance of customer surveys are shared within the Group and reflected on sales satisfaction. Mitsubishi Electric quickly proceeded to create and development strategies. the necessary climate, systems and tools that would 99 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social Understanding customer satisfaction A customer's selection, purchase, and use of a product ◦Contentment : T  he product satisfies the customer's involve a number of different departments, such as needs and requirements the development, manufacturing, sales, and service ◦Emotion : The customer acquires a new value from the departments. Customer satisfaction cannot be achieved product if a customer is discontented with any aspect of this The ultimate form of customer satisfaction is achieved process, or if there is any weakness in the departments when a product exceeds customer expectations and concerned. Customer satisfaction increases in the provides an emotional benefit. The key to achieving following order. customer satisfaction is to therefore assess and satisfy ◦Assurance : The customer is assured that the product is customer expectations. Customer Checkpoints not flawed or defective Three Types of ① Advertising Customer Satisfaction Consultation ② Before purchase about purchasing Products ③ Purchase Enhance customer satisfaction Installation and ④ use Increase number of repeat customers Sales Service Customer ⑤ inquiries During use ⑥ Repair service End of ⑦ Disposal product life Customer checkpoints Taking calls 24 hours a day, 365 days a year To satisfy customer expectations, it is necessary to think of Center operate 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. customers throughout the sales, service, development, and The Technical Support Call Center, which responds to manufacturing stages, and to quickly detect and respond technical inquiries from distributors, and the Repair Service dynamically to signs of market changes. As one strategy Station, the stronghold of repair services operated by to provide a response to customers in Japan when they Mitsubishi Electric System & Service Co., Ltd., also respond require one, in October 1998, Mitsubishi Electric extended to inquiries 365 days a year (excluding some regions). the service hours of its Japan Customer Relations Center As the relations center receives a wide array of inquiries to 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. Previously the center every year due to the diversification of product functionality, responded to inquiries concerning product usage only we are constantly reinforcing staff members, and are during daytime hours from Monday through Saturday making consistent efforts to provide proper training. except on holidays. Today, the Customer Relations Center and Service Call Service Call Center Customer Relations Center Repair Service Station 100 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social System of reviewing customers' comments The content and results of consultations and repair end of each day. They are used to improve both products requests from customers and details of technical inquiries under production and development, and to provide repair are sent as feedback to the manufacturing works at the information to distributors. Customer relations center Customers' comments that are collected by the Customer the release of a new product, efforts are made to convey Relations Center are entered into a database and customers' expectations, wishes, and dissatisfactions analyzed in terms of trend, and the analysis results are regarding the new product to relevant departments in regularly sent to relevant manufacturing plants, sales a timely manner, so they may review the feedback as companies, and research institutes. Manufacturing plants quickly as possible. and sales companies utilize this information in their At the same time, regular liaison meetings are held ongoing efforts to improve existing products and to make between each manufacturing plant and Customer websites, catalogs, and instruction manuals even easier to Relations Center to identify medium-term issues that are understand. Research institutes utilize the information to brought to light by customers' comments and enhance refine products that are under development. Particularly their cooperation in collecting further information. with respect to information that is obtained following Manufacturing plants At Shizuoka Works, where Mitsubishi Electric criteria or incorporating them into measures for improving manufactures air conditioners, quality improvement efforts product control specifications. are made by arranging opportunities for development As an example, our unique sensory temperature engineers to personally hear the opinions of customers control was developed based on customers' comments, and provide feedback to their product development. More with some customers saying the air conditioner is too specifically, Shizuoka Works actively invites questions weak, and others saying it overcools. We looked into this and comments from customers, or when a quality issue issue and found that in addition to ambient temperature, occurs that is thought to be of high technical difficulty, humidity and floor temperature also affect sensory directly visits the customer's home to inspect the product temperature. With regard to the noise of outdoor units, installation environment. we found that not only the loudness but also the nature There are many cases where customers' comments of the noise also makes a difference in how noise is have benefited product development. With air actually heard, and thus incorporated this concept in our conditioners, most inquiries are related to how to use the development evaluation criteria. product and problems with cooling and heating functions. We will continue to refer to customers' opinions as Therefore, direct visits are made to customers' homes to we continue to accumulate a history of Kirigamine air personally hear their inquiries, and such visits are used to conditioners. improve product quality by reflecting the results in design Kirigamine FZ Series room air conditioner MSZ-FZ4018S Airflow control that can adjust sensory temperature delivers optimum comfort to each user. 101 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social VOICE (In charge of the Customer Relations Center) Customer Relations Center, Customer Satisfaction Promotion Department, Living Environment & Digital Media Equipment Group, Mitsubishi Electric Corporation Satoru Watanabe At the Mitsubishi Electric Customer Relations Center, we support customers by providing product information prior to purchase, related mainly to Mitsubishi Electric home appliances (purchase consultations), as well as inquiries connected with post-purchase operation and use. In addition to accumulating knowledge about products on a daily basis and enhancing the content we give customers in the knowledge database, we have also launched the Monitoring Team. Since customer care is paramount, the team is constantly striving to improve the quality of our service. In addition, we are strengthening our organizational structure by increasing the number of support centers to avoid situations where customers cannot reach us by phone. To further raise customer satisfaction, we not only conduct after-sales support (customer support); to ensure a positive pre-sales support experience (customer success), we take care to listen to customers’ feedback, analyze it, and pass information useful for product development to labs and manufacturing sites. Sales departments also receive valuable information that will help them to secure more sales. We consider these activities as critical responsibilities, and will continue to spare no effort. CS Activities by the Building Systems Group (in Japan) The Building Systems Group handles elevators and Systems Group continues to pursue the highest level of escalators that provide vertical transportation within quality in relation to safety, comfort, efficiency, safety, and buildings and building management systems. By ensuring the environment in its overall business activities (sales, their safety and security and continuously delivering development, manufacturing, installation, and maintenance), comfortable means of transportation and living spaces as making use of our advanced technologies and environmental indispensable social infrastructures on a global scale, we expertise. By this means, we are able to provide our contribute to making society even more vibrant and affluent. customers with optimal solutions and a level of security and Under the slogan Quality in Motion , the Building reliability that wins their complete satisfaction. 24-hour, 365-day Safety Hotline Information centers of Mitsubishi Electric Building Techno-Service Co., Ltd. Mitsubishi Electric Building Techno-Service, one of Moreover, by monitoring changes in data on the Mitsubishi Electric's group companies in Japan, specializes operational status of elevators and air-conditioning in the maintenance of elevators, escalators, and other facilities, we can detect and address abnormalities before such building facilities. This company's information centers they develop into a malfunction and prevent problems provide a safety hotline for response in cases of trouble, from occurring. such as failure signals and telephone calls from customers. Mitsubishi Electric information centers situated in eight locations throughout the country constantly monitor remotely the status of contracted customers' building facilities. When an error signal is received, the system provides information on the current locations, works in progress, and even the technical levels of approximately 6,000 engineers, so that the most appropriate engineer closest to the customer's building can be located and dispatched to the site immediately. The system also supports the quick recovery of building functions, by taking actions such as e-mailing information on the history of repairs and other matters related to the building to the engineer, or processing urgent orders for parts. Information center 102 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Elevator and Escalator Safety Campaign Elevators and escalators are used to transport a large and management methods and emergency responses. These indefinite number of persons, so a high level of safety is meetings have been attended by more than 300,000 imperative, and they are thus required to be equipped people to date, and will continue to be held as an with various safety devices and functions. important safety activity of the Mitsubishi Electric Group. At the same time, to ensure safe operation, it is necessary to maintain the functioning of elevators and escalators through regular maintenance and inspection, and for people to use them correctly. Based on this awareness, Mitsubishi Electric Building Techno-Service not only performs maintenance and inspection as appropriate, but has also been holding a safety campaign since 1980 to increase understanding of the proper usage of elevators and escalators among users and to promote their safe usage. We also hold explanatory meetings for users, to teach children, senior citizens, people with disabilities, and other such users the proper and safe way to ride elevators and escalators, as well as explanatory meetings for apartment and building owners and managers, with a focus on daily Mitsubishi Elevator and Escalator Safety Campaign Inazawa Works SOLAÉ showroom The showroom attached to the 173-meter-tall SOLAÉ elevator testing tower receives visitors from facility owners, design offices, and construction companies—as well as children from the local community—and having them see, feel, and experience actual Mitsubishi Electric products and technologies that are fundamental to building operation, the showroom communicates the safety and security of Mitsubishi Electric's products. The elevator and escalator zone on the first floor introduces visitors to the history of elevators and escalators, and, using actual elevator and escalator units, provides a survey of subjects ranging from their basic structure to the latest products and technologies that ensure their safety, security and comfort. Visitors are also able to experience the sense of speed of the world's fastest elevator* using computer graphics projected onto a huge monitor. The building management system zone on the second floor allows visitors to experience technologies including the latest building management and security systems. * Installed in Shanghai Tower (based on internal research of elevators in operation as of March 2019) SOLAÉ elevator testing tower SOLAÉ showroom 103 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social Responding to Product-Related Issues Basic Policy In the event of an issue, we place top priority on not on a system that ensures prompt and accurate responses inconveniencing our customers, and take action based and measures. Policies for Notification and Information Collection, and the Repairs and Recalls of Products If we receive any report of a major issue occurring in a all the relevant products that were sold are returned and product that we have sold, we have a system in place repaired, and apply these efforts to a wide array of sales that includes the top management to ensure quick and channels. accurate decisions on the steps and measures to take, so In Japan, we promptly release appropriate information that we can take proper action while placing top priority on issues in consumer products, which directly and deeply on not inconveniencing our customers. For recalls in affect consumers. particular, we work on an ongoing basis to ensure that Reporting Major Product Issues (in Japan) A detailed list of information pertaining to important Electric's Japanese-language official website. product-related and quality issues is posted on Mitsubishi Accident Reporting Based on the Consumer Product Safety Act Detailed information on our compliance with Japan's Under our policy regarding the disclosure of accident revised Consumer Product Safety Act, which went into information, we also disclose information on cases that Flow of response to accidents effect in May 2007, is available on Mitsubishi Electric's are under investigation. Japanese-language official website. Accident Mitsubishi Electric Group occurrence Information obtained Works Head Office (incl. management levels) Customer Malfunction Malfunction Relations information received information received Center Investigation of the Fire cause of malfunction Department / (incl. examination of actual Police product, onsite examination, Customer / Distributor Department etc.) Corporate Review conference review conference Diagnosis of Diagnosis of product malfunction product malfunction Serious product accident Joint investigative Consumer Affairs commission Agency Non-serious Business group decision product accident NITE Action / Reporting Customer service Reporting department Ministry of Economy, Action Trade and Industry Information provision Consumer Affairs Website Announcement Agency, etc. Flow of responses to accidents (Mitsubishi Electric Group) 104 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social Human Rights Human Rights Policy Mitsubishi Electric Group Human Rights Policy September 20.2017 Protection of human rights and support for other reason . internationally agreed human rights are imperatives As the Mitsubishi Electric Group continues to for the Mitsubishi Electric Group's business activities. expand its business globally, in accordance with the Accordingly, as members of the Group, we recognize spirit of the Mitsubishi Electric Group's Corporate our duty to prevent any complicity with human rights Mission and Seven Guiding Principles, it has violations. On that basis, the Mitsubishi Electric established this Human Rights Policy and shall raise Group enacted its Corporate Ethics and Compliance awareness of human rights among its members and Statement in 2001 and pledged that all executives and make sure to properly deal with related incidents in members of the Group will conduct ourselves always order to ensure that its business activities do not have with a respect for human rights, will not discriminate a negative impact on human rights. based on nationality, race, religion, gender, or any 1. The Mitsubishi Electric Group recognizes that, human rights, or its members are found to have as a minimum, it must respect international been clearly involved in violations of human rights. standards related to human rights, such as 3. The Mitsubishi Electric Group has identified CSR the International Bill of Human Rights and the materialities, has set concrete tasks and goals International Labour Organization's Declaration on for those materialities, and works to achieve Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. On them, and, through that process, takes steps to that basis, we shall respect human rights while ascertain the status of its initiatives related to making sure to adequately understand relevant respect for human rights, and properly discloses laws and regulations in every country and region its findings. where we do business. If such laws and regulations do not conform to 4. The Mitsubishi Electric Group shall work to ensure international standards related to human rights, that its initiatives related to respect for human we shall consult with local authorities on how to rights are implemented with the participation of properly handle cases involving human rights in all executives and employees. Furthermore, the order to respect the international standards. Group shall request cooperation from various stakeholders involved in its whole value chains 2. Based on the United Nations Guiding Principles on such as business activities, products, and services, Business and Human Rights, the Mitsubishi Electric in order to help promote respect for human rights Group shall undertake human rights due diligence in society at large. measures, such as specifying and assessing the impact of its business activities on human rights, 5. The Mitsubishi Electric Group shall implement and studying ways of proactively preventing or training programs and awareness campaigns on mitigating any negative impact of those activities. a continuous basis for the purpose of ensuring Furthermore, the Group shall put a framework in that all executives and members of the Group place for rectifying any cases in which its business understand initiatives related to respect for human activities are found to have negatively impacted rights, and conduct themselves accordingly. 105 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social Code of Corporate Ethics and Compliance–Respect for Human Rights Basic Principle We will respect human rights with an awareness that societies in all countries and regions where we do our activities are widely interrelated with peoples and business. ● Principle concerning child labor and forced labor all countries and regions where we do business, as well In all countries and regions where we do business, as with in-house regulations and procedures, to create we will not use child labor or forced labor under any safe and comfortable workplace environments where circumstance or form of employment. everyone concerned can work comfortably. Particularly ● Principle concerning discrimination when engaging in production activities and construction In all countries and regions where we do business, works, we will make every effort to secure health we will not tolerate any discrimination relating to and safety in cooperation with affiliated companies, employment and personnel treatment based on race, cooperating companies, customers, and suppliers. ethnicity, nationality, gender, age, beliefs, religion, social ● Principle concerning labor relations status, disability, or any other form of discrimination. We will comply with laws and regulations relating At the same time, we will regularly check our own to employment, personnel affairs, working styles, language and behavior to prevent any misunderstanding wages, working hours, and immigration control in all or doubt regarding our stand on human rights. countries and regions where we do business, as well ● Respect for individuality as with relevant in-house regulations and procedures, In all countries and regions where we do business, we to maintain and improve sound labor conditions and will respect the individuality of each employee and workplace environments. will not engage in any act that disregards the person's ● Principle concerning personal information protection individuality, such as harassment, defamation, slander, In all countries and regions where we do business, we or compelling the person to do work through threats. will collect and properly utilize personal information At the same time, we will regularly check our own only through legitimate and appropriate means, and language and behavior to prevent any misunderstanding only when necessary. We will also do our utmost to or doubt regarding our stand on human rights. prevent illegal access, leakage, loss, and falsification of ● Principle concerning health and safety in the workplace personal information. We will comply with relevant laws and regulations in Initiatives related to the supply chain Human Rights Management Status of Present Initiatives and Future Issues Human rights responses according to international norms The Mitsubishi Electric Group established Policies on due diligence on human rights in conformance with the Respect for Human Rights in September 2017 and declared UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, and its commitment to ensure human rights responses that creating a corrective mechanism in the event it comes to match international norms. In particular, we are striving light that a company’ s action or involvement has inflicted to implement measures to prevent and mitigate adverse an adverse impact on human rights. impacts on human rights. To do so, we are conducting 106 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social Specific initiatives 1) Results of activities in fiscal 2019 1. Human rights impact assessment c. We published commentaries on human rights as a fourpart series in the company and Group newsletters. Mitsubishi Electric assessed and evaluated the impact on human rights related to the Group’ s corporate activities for a total of 336 sites, including the internal Mitsubishi 4. Communication with external organizations Electric offices, domestic affiliated companies, and To ensure that the Mitsubishi Electric Group's efforts overseas affiliated companies. toward improving human rights are effective, we are communicating with experts and NGOs, and are receiving a. Assessment details advice on our activities as they relate to human rights. In i. Evaluation of the impact of corporate activities on fiscal 2018, we had the opportunity to hold discussions human rights with Amnesty International Japan, where we received In a survey, the items to evaluate were divided into advice on how to build a grievance handling mechanism four categories: employee human rights, consumer and matters related to handling conflict minerals. human rights, impact on the supply chain, and impact on regional communities. These categories were used to assess 36 human rights violation issues, and we rated the likelihood of each occurring at one of three levels. ii. Evaluation of the state of use of the Technical Intern Training Program For Japan, we examined the availability of relevant programs, and if available, we assessed whether they were being operated according to the law. b. Assessment results i. Issues extracted from the assessment Issues such as harassment prevention, controlling long work hours, consideration toward women and Dialogue with Amnesty International Japan people with disabilities, and bribery prevention need more attention to ensure the risks do not lead to 2) Approaches for fiscal 2020 problems. ii. State of applying the Technical Intern Training 1. Implement human rights risk reduction Program measures within the Mitsubishi Electric Group This program is being used at two of Mitsubishi Ensure that the risks highlighted in the fiscal 2018 human Electric’s internal offices and at four affiliated rights impact assessment do not lead to problems, we are companies. The responses concluded that all sites continuing to reinforce our efforts through human rights were applying this program appropriately and in education and improving management of work hours. compliance with relevant laws. 2. Human rights efforts in the supply chain 2. Efforts regarding human rights in the supply chain a. E nsure that measures that started in fiscal 2018 to consider social issues, such as human rights, in Based on the CSR Procurement Guidelines formulated in agreements concluded with suppliers, will continue. June 2018, the procurement divisions have begun ensuring b. Continue to promote efforts to fully understand human that when dealing with transaction partners, agreements rights violation risks by suppliers (forced labor using are reached with regard to social issues, including human foreign laborers, dangerous and hazardous labor). rights. 3. C  onsider upgrading the system for handling 3. Human rights education grievances a. H  uman rights training was included in the e-learning We are considering the implementation of a system for content related to CSR, and was conducted for listening to grievances from those who have been victims employees of Mitsubishi Electric and domestic affiliated of human rights violations, and connecting it to relief companies. In fisical 2019, 71,588 people have taken efforts (i.e. a grievance handling mechanism). Even now, the course. at the Mitsubishi Electric Group, we have multiple inquiry b. In addition to the human rights impact assessment, channels that serve as a system for listening to various we conducted human rights education for employees grievances and questions related to human rights, but we involved in CSR at Mitsubishi Electric and at domestic aim to raise the performance of these channels to meet affiliated companies, and then communicated the international standards. circumstances surrounding the implementation of the assessment and fundamental knowledge related to human rights. 107 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social Response to the UK's Modern Slavery Act In fiscal 2017, Mitsubishi Electric Europe B.V. and made to ensure information disclosure and strengthen Mitsubishi Electric Air Conditioning Systems Europe Ltd. relevant initiatives. Due consideration is also given to the issued a statement in response to the Modern Slavery Act UK Gender Pay Gap Report. that was enacted in the UK with the aim of eradicating Statement by Mitsubishi Electric Europe B.V. forced labor, human trafficking, and other such acts that Statement by Mitsubishi Electric Air Conditioning Systems constitute modern slavery. Continued efforts will be Europe Ltd. Human Rights Awareness Activities At Mitsubishi Electric, we organized a human rights training program. a. H  uman rights training was included in the e-learning c. W e published commentaries on human rights as a fourcontent related to CSR, and was conducted for part series in the company and Group newsletters. employees of Mitsubishi Electric and domestic affiliated companies.In fisical 2019, 71,588 people have taken the Additionally, we have implemented a program for new course. employees and newly appointed managers that promotes b. In addition to the human rights impact assessment, understanding of the basic principles of human rights and we conducted human rights education for employees Mitsubishi Electric's human rights initiatives. The program involved in CSR at Mitsubishi Electric and at domestic includes lectures on specific issues surrounding human affiliated companies, and then communicated the rights, such as harassment, discrimination against disabled circumstances surrounding the implementation of the people, and the Dowa social integration issue. assessment and fundamental knowledge related to human rights. Harassment Training Mitsubishi Electric provides ongoing training programs Those who attend the program actively engage regarding human rights to new employees and newly in creating a comfortable working environment for appointed managers, as part of its efforts to ensure employees, by making certain there are no harassment a healthy workplace environment that is free of issues in their workplace, as is their responsibility as discrimination and harassment. In fiscal 2019, we managers. conducted an approximately one-hour group training session related to human rights and harassment, in each office, for 858 new employees and 532 newly appointed managers. Particular emphasis is placed on harassment prevention training for newly appointed managers, as they bear an important responsibility as managers to maintain and improve their workplace environment. The programs include not only lectures that provide information about sexual harassment, power harassment and maternity harassment, but also lectures that allow managers to identify any harassment issues in the workplace, such as by introducing specific case examples of harassment. Lecture on Respect for human rights and the active participation of diverse human resources 108 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social Labor Practices Basic Policy on Human Resources Basic Policy Mitsubishi Electric actively recruits employees to maintain and air-conditioning systems. a proper personnel structure over the medium to long Affiliated companies in Japan also implement plans for term, and to achieve further global expansion of its continuous recruitment of employees from the standpoint growth areas, which are centered on power systems, of strengthening business, technological capabilities, transportation systems, building systems, FA systems, marketing capacities, and manufacturing power. automotive equipment, space systems, power devices, Active Employment on a Continuous Basis Mitsubishi Electric plans to employ a combined total of We will continue to proactively recruit people with the 1,180 new graduates in October 2019 and April 2020. aim of achieving an even higher level of growth. Recruitment plan of the Mitsubishi Electric Group (as of March 2019) 1. New graduates (Unit: no. of people) October 2017 and April October 2018 and April October 2019 and April 2018 (result) 2019 (projection) 2020 (plan) Engineering positions 650 690 680 Sales & administrative 220 240 200 positions Technical positions 270 300 300 Mitsubishi Electric 1,140 1,230 1,180 April 2018 (result) April 2019 (projection) April 2020 (plan) Affiliated companies in Japan 1,500 1,500 1,500 Total 2,640 2,730 2,680 2. Mid-career Hires (Unit: no. of people) Fiscal 2018 (result) Fiscal 2019 (projection) Fiscal 2020 (plan) Mitsubishi Electric 550 650 550 Affiliated companies 1,000 1,000 1,000 in Japan Total 1,550 1,650 1,550 3. Ratio of women among new graduates in engineering positions at Mitsubishi Electric Fiscal 2018 (result) Fiscal 2019 (projection) Fiscal 2020 (plan) Future target 11％ 13％ 10％ 20％ or more 109 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social Basic Personnel Data Employment Situation Employment situation of the Mitsubishi Electric Group （1）Consolidated data (as of March 31, 2019) Segment No. of employees (persons) Energy & Electric Systems 46,732 Industrial Automation Systems 33,480 Information & Communication Systems 15,185 Electronic Devices 5,415 Home Appliances 26,789 Other 12,716 Common 5,500 Total 145,817 （2）Data for Mitsubishi Electric Corporation (as of March 31, 2019) No. of employees Average age Average number of years worked Turnover rate annual income Average 35,203 employees 40.4 years 8,169,232 (incl. 3,383 women) 16.3 years 2.2% of age yen [7,202 employees NOTES: 1.  Employees refers to all personnel who are working. The number of Segment No. of employees (persons) temporary workers is indicated in Energy & Electric Systems 8,676 terms of average number per year and provided in brackets ([ ]) as a Industrial Automation Systems 9,911 separate number not included in the total number. Information & Communication Systems 4,971 2. T urnover rate includes retirement Electronic Devices 2,233 on reaching retirement age. 3. A verage annual income includes Home Appliances 5,063 bonuses and extra wages. Other 0 4. T here is no difference in the amount of remuneration between Common 4,349 men and women under Mitsubishi Electric Group's personnel Total 35,203 treatment system. Relationship with Labor Union Mitsubishi Electric and Mitsubishi Electric labor union mutual negotiations, the company and labor unions strongly realize that it is important for them to cooperate establish a management council and labor council, and in promoting the company's growth and improving endeavor to seek resolutions by holding thorough rational the working conditions of labor union members based discussions on equal footing, as a basic principle. on an awareness of the company's social mission Affiliates in Japan and overseas also share the principle and responsibility, and to form and maintain a laborof holding thorough rational discussions between labor management relationship founded on mutual sincerity and management, and endeavor to maintain and improve and trust. Based on this realization, they enter into a labor sound working conditions and workplace environments contract by consent of both parties and mutually comply in compliance with labor-related laws and regulations with the contract in good faith. concerning employment, personnel affairs, work duties, Under the union-shop system, employees (excluding wages, working hours, immigration control, and so on in management level employees) become union members the countries and regions where they do business, as well after completing a trial period, as a rule. To facilitate as with internal regulations and procedures. 110 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social Workforce Diversity Basic Policy Within today's rapidly changing workforce environment, diversity of people, given the increasingly aging and providing a workplace where employees can work to diminishing population in Japan. Based on this awareness, their full potential regardless of gender or age is essential Mitsubishi Electric promotes employee diversity through to business development. Furthermore, it has become the following measures. more vital than ever before to employ an even greater Women's Participation Personnel structure (Mitsubishi Electric alone) To formulate and implement original measures that would help female employees and employees with children Female 10.5% form a career while also enriching their personal lives, Mitsubishi Electric established the CP-Plan* Promotion Center within its Corporate Human Resources Division in April 2006, with a mandate to promote recruitment, Male training, assignment, and institutional initiatives from a 89.5% diversified perspective. * Career management & Personal life well-balanced Plan Gender ratio (Mitsubishi Electric) Basic data (Mitsubishi Electric) Trend in the number of female employees Trend in the number of female managers (Mitsubishi Electric) (at or above section manager level; Mitsubishi Electric) Initiatives for Even Greater Participation of Women Career forum for young female employees A career forum (CP-Plan Forum) is offered to young experiences, and group discussions, the forum, attended female employees, to actively inspire them to form a by around 200 people every year, encourages female career around life events such as childbirth and childcare. employees to think and act on their own and promotes Through a lecture personally given by the president personal networking. on the managerial significance of promoting women's In addition to this forum that is held at the Head participation, stories of senior employees' personal Office, exchange events are also held in some offices. Strengthening management capacities Various efforts are made to raise management's for newly appointed managers, to disseminate an awareness of women's participation and strengthen understanding of the managerial significance of women's management capacities. For example, a curriculum on participation and considerations to be heeded in the women's participation is included in the training program management of female subordinates. 111 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social Handbook on supporting work/childcare 社外秘 balance for employees and supervisors 上 司と部 下 仕 事と育 児 の 両 立 支 援 Various initiatives are in place so that employees who ハ ンド ブック have taken childcare leave can smoothly return to 上the 司と部 下 h a n d b o o k 仕 事と育 児 の 両 立 支 援ハンドブック workplace and perform to the maximum of their ability ─本人･職場双方にとっての「幸せな両立」を目指して─ while caring for their children. For example, a handbook is distributed both to these employees and their supervisors, and regulations require that these employees meet with Handbook on supporting work/ their supervisors periodically before and after returning to childcare balance for employees their positions. and supervisors VOICE (Female manager) General Manager, Total Energy System Engineering Dept., Business Development & Strategic Planning Div., Energy & Industrial Systems Group, Mitsubishi Electric Corporation Marta Marmiroli I was born and raised in Italy. After graduating from a local university, I studied in Japan and then joined Mitsubishi Electric. Since then, I have been involved in power system-related development and today I am committed to business promotion as the Head of Engineering. While considering the development of my team members including the improvement of their skills as a manager, I am trying to create new businesses such as development of efficient power systems using cutting-edge technologies. Going forward, I will work to improve the presence of Mitsubishi Electric in the industry while enhancing organizational strength by communicating my experience and skills to members of my team. Active recruitment of female students in science: Organizing events to promote further understanding of Mitsubishi Electric and producing promotion Media (websites, leaflets, etc.) Mitsubishi Electric makes active efforts to recruit female Various events are organized to actively disseminate students in science, based on a target of achieving genuine perspectives on working at Mitsubishi Electric. a female ratio in new recruits from engineering fields These include exchange forums where female students of more than 20% in the future, as stated in the in science can interact with female engineers at various company's Action Plan, pursuant to the Act on Promotion stages in their life and business areas, from junior of Women’ s Participation and Advancement in the employees and other employees who have children to Workplace. managers, and seminars that include a tour designed to Basic policy on human resources introduce day nurseries and other in-house facilities at Mitsubishi Electric. Websites and leaflets that introduce Ratio of women among new recruits for the way Mitsubishi Electric's female engineers carry out engineering fields (Mitsubishi Electric) their jobs and their careers are also produced. Fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2019 Fiscal 2020 9% 11% 13% 10% * October hires and April hires Exchange forum with female engineers Exchange forum with female engineers(1) Exchange forum with female engineers(2) Pamphlet for female science students Top page of a featured website 112 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social Principles and Initiatives for Developing Global Human Resources To become a global company that employs global human resources As a global company, Mitsubishi Electric has 196 same time, Mitsubishi Electric Japan is also actively consolidated affiliates in Japan and overseas, employing promoting the employment of foreign employees. some 58,000 overseas employees, which corresponds Around 10 to 20 foreign employees are employed on a to 40% of the total number of employees of the Group continuous basis every year, and a cross-cultural training as a whole. Particular attention is given to personnel program is offered regularly, to be attended in pairs with assignments and development, with the aim of becoming a senior Japanese employee from the same workplace, a corporate body where all employees of the Group can so that new foreign employees can work actively and maximize their potential and are able to realize their comfortably in Japan. Further initiatives also provide personal career plan. More than 100 overseas employees training on Mitsubishi Electric's corporate philosophy, from ten to twenty countries are invited to receive training including its corporate mission, values, and history in both at a Mitsubishi Electric manufacturing facility (plant) in Japan and overseas to strengthen awareness of corporate Japan every year, to acquire technologies, skills, and principles that all employees of the Mitsubishi Electric know-how. They return to their companies and support Group worldwide ought to share. the Mitsubishi Electric Group’ s strong manufacturing Today, local staff members account for more than around the world. 40% of all top managements (above the level of general An initiative is also in place to provide a roughly twomanager) in overseas affiliates. Mitsubishi Electric week training program in Japan to selected overseas continues to widely promote the placement of human employees as candidates of future management resources in positions that are suitable for them, be they executives. Participants, who acquire new knowledge local staff or expatriates of Mitsubishi Electric (Japan), for and a network of personal connections, return to their managerial positions in overseas affiliates. company and engage in greater levels of work. At the Employees dispatched under the overseas OJT system (FY2010 – FY2020 (planned)) As part of the effort to develop human resources in Japan the overseas OJT system. In recent years, an average of capable of working at the global level, Mitsubishi Electric 100 employees have been dispatched to various locations employees are dispatched to affiliated Employees companies under under the dispatched overseas around OJT system the world every year. (no.) North America Central/South America 120 Europe Middle East Southeast/South Asia, Oceania East Asia 103 101 100 100 92 15 91 87 15 22 18 16 80 73 17 65 34 36 19 16 24 27 60 14 27 1 45 2 2 24 32 19 3 40 14 24 24 32 25 25 28 5 2 17 4 4 10 13 1 5 13 1 3 1 4 4 6 20 12 3 11 5 12 26 22 23 1 19 19 19 1 14 15 9 11 7 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 (forecast) Employees dispatched under (FY) the overseas OJT system Employees have also been dispatched to English-speaking Portuguese-speaking countries, as shown below, for countries, Chinese-speaking countries and Spanish/ foreign language training. Employees dispatched to attend foreign language training overseas (Mitsubishi Electric) Fiscal 2015 Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2019 101 90 98 103 86 113 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social Multi-Track Personnel System from the Core Career Track Providing Diverse Employment Formats (for unionized forworkers) Older Employees Employees in their fifties can choose one style of working from among various options In Japan, Mitsubishi Electric instituted various multi-track personnel systems in fiscal 2002, which makes diverse Life Design 50 (Age 50) employment formats possible by allowing employees aged 50 and over to choose from among a variety of options. Preparation for a new “Career Plan” The options include financial assistance for an employee's life after retirement option (Age 56) second life following retirement, a second life support program that provides two years of paid vacation, and Retirement extending employment up to the age of 65 through a reRetirement at employment program. “Second Life” support system standard age ( routine procedures ) retirement We also offer an annual lifestyle design training session at each of our business sites to employees turning 50 and ( leave of absence, lump sum payment ) Re-hired (at adjusted wage rates) their spouses. The sessions encourage employees to take Retirement Retirement for an interest in planning the rest of their lives and designing a rewarding lifestyle by providing information on pensions and ( routine procedures ) retirement re-hired workers (Age 65) retirement benefits, social insurance, taxes, hobbies, health, Multi-track personnel system from the core career track (for and other topics, and by facilitating group discussions. unionized workers) Promoting Employment of People with Disabilities In October 2014, Mitsubishi Electric established Melco The company mainly engages in the cleaning service, Tender Mates Corporation, a special subsidiary* that café, business card, food service, and health promotion specializes in businesses mainly suited to people with (massage) businesses, and employs 62 people with intellectual disabilities. As of March 15, 2019, people with disabilities as of March 15, 2019. A cookie factory was disabilities comprised 2.25 % of the total workforce at established as a second location in FY2018, and it will Mitsubishi Electric and its special subsidiaries combined. continue to gradually expand its businesses to increase its The company name of Melco Tender Mates employment of employees with disabilities. Corporation expresses the principle that able-bodied * Special subsidiary: A subsidiary which, if certain requirements employees and employees with disabilities are equal are met, is regarded as the same business entity as its parent partners in the workplace and peers who mutually care company and whose rate of employment of people with for each other. disabilities is calculated in consolidation with that of the parent company. Cafe business Cookie manufacturing Business card production 114 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social Creating a Fulfilling Workplace Basic Policy In the context of intensifying global competition, the that increasing employee satisfaction leads to greater Mitsubishi Electric Group upholds a management policy achievements by employees and organizations driven by of strengthening global business competitiveness toward increased employee motivation and productivity. This achieving sustainable growth, and implements various inevitably leads to greater customer satisfaction (CS), management policies to realize the Group's growth stronger competitiveness, and better performance. strategy. Enhancing and creating measures that maximize Employee satisfaction underlies Mitsubishi Electric's employee achievements is essential for the Group to personnel policies. At the same time, there are policies secure a sustainable advantage in competition with other such as those described below that are implemented in companies. response to the trends of the times, social circumstances, Achievement = ability × motivation. To strengthen and changes in the management environment and employee motivations, it is necessary to increase personnel frameworks. employee satisfaction (ES). Mitsubishi Electric believes Compensation System Based on Individual Job Descriptions and Performance In Japan, Mitsubishi Electric has adopted a compensation workforce utilization, in order to provide opportunities for Organic Combination of Components system with a view to developing a corporate culture in employees to develop their own skills and advance their which employees each recognize organizational targets as through Management Enhancements careers. well as their own roles, work to raise their own value, and take on the challenge of difficult goals. Under this compensation system, employee performance is emphasized, with appropriate assessment Evaluation/ given to employees who contribute substantially to Compensation management and participate actively in it. Bonuses are Remuneration/Status awarded for outstanding service. In order to increase Results New challenges understanding of employees about the operation of the assessment system, we fully disclose its evaluation methods and standards, conduct surveys on the functioning of the 3-in-1 system to gauge employee opinion on it, provide a system system Capacity for handling complaints, and otherwise work to increase Effective development understanding and acceptance by employees and further Workforce Utilization Specializing enhance operations. Acquisition of roles/ (by personal initiative + opportunities company support) We are committed to making the system function effectively by organically combining and harmonizing Realization of the three components of the system, evaluation/ one’s potential compensation, capacity development, and effective Organic combination of components through management enhancements Transfer Opportunities at the Request of Employees In order to assign the employees to positions that are Specifically, we launched Job-Net on our company suitable for them and provide transfer opportunities at intranet to allow employees to build a career plan on the request of employees, Mitsubishi Electric instituted their own. The site posts information on recruitment and an intranet-based recruitment system and a system skill development training at Mitsubishi Electric and Group that allows employees to publicize their request to be companies as well as companies outside the Group. transferred. 115 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social Promoting Communication in the Workplace At Mitsubishi Electric in Japan, each employee sets on evaluation of performance, and the placement and individual goals based on the policies and objectives of utilization of human resources, to promote improved the organization or division to which they belong, and a communication in the workplace. system for reviewing employee roles and performance is We also place value on a corporate culture in which implemented to track the progress of those goals through labor and management share an understanding of the communication between employees and their managers. status of business, management strategies, and personnel Under this system, regularly-scheduled interviews are management policies, working together to address issues held in which employees and managers discuss such through labor-management meetings and committees. topics as the employee's development and training based Motivating Employees with Bonuses for Inventions (in Japan) In line with provisions in the Japanese Patent Law, system is disclosed, an Invention Consultation Committee Mitsubishi Electric has established an employee invention is established to deliberate on petitions from employees bonus system to motivate employees to create inventions. concerning their bonus, and an Invention Evaluation Regarding inventions made by employees during the Committee is established to discuss the amount of cash course of their work, the Company pays patent filing and reward to disburse for inventions that contribute to registration bonuses to those employees as a reward. business. If the inventions are out-licensed to another company, In addition to the above, a program for rewarding the relevant employees also receive utilization bonuses outstanding inventions and industrial designs also from the Company. If inventions that have contributed to encourage inventions by employees. Each year, this the Company's business win an award from outside the program honors inventions and industrial designs, and Company, the relevant employees receive a cash reward those that are judged as especially outstanding receive appropriate to the award, with no upper limit set. commendation from the president. Furthermore, to maintain fairness and transparency of * An easy-to-understand description of the employee invention the system, the criteria of the employee invention bonus bonus system and its provisions are posted on the company Intranet for access by all employees. Maintaining a Favorable Working Environment Basic Policy Japan's working population is expected to dramatically under these circumstances, it will be essential to create decrease in conjunction with its aging and declining a working environment where all employees can work to population, and there is apt to be a further increase in the their full potential within their limited time. number of employees, both men and women, who work Various initiatives are in place at Mitsubishi Electric to while caring for children or elderly members of their family. create a working environment where all employees can In order for Mitsubishi Electric to survive through the tough work actively while maintaining a good work-life balance. international competition and realize sustainable growth 116 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social Support for Flexible Working Styles Development and availability of childcare and family-care programs in Japan Mitsubishi Electric is making every effort to fully establish paid vacation days when they need to care for children or a work-life balance support system that more than elderly family members or to participate in a child's school satisfies the legal requirements, and to develop workplace event, etc. that do not require a one-day or half-day leave. conditions that allow employees to comfortably do their To raise employee awareness of these initiatives, we jobs and raise children or care for elderly family members. actively disseminate relevant information through a portal Our childcare leave program can be extended to the site, which features a range of information on work-life month of March following the child's first birthday (or to balance, such as a list of support systems for employees the first end of March following the child’ s second birthday raising children (see chart below), and interviews with if there is a special circumstance). We also have a program working mothers. We make this information available to that allows employees to work shorter hours when raising employees, managers, and new hires, aiming to create their children, and this program can be extended up until an environment that is conducive to using these support the end of March in the year the child graduates from systems. Along with enhancing 【6-3-5】Maintaining a Favorableour programs, Working we will work Environment elementary school. Our family-care leave program allows to foster a workplace culture in which employees can employees with families that meet the requirements to enrich their personal lives while advancing their careers. Work-life balance support measures related to childcare take a leave of absence for more than three years. It also allows employees to work shorter hours for up to three Graduation Enrollment in years to help them take care of their families. In addition, Life stage Pregnancy Childbirth Child from age 1 elementary Grade 4 elementary school school when the employee is the spouse of an expectant mother, Temporary-leave system for fertility treatment the spouse may take up to five days leave. There is also Reduced working hours a program to provide the spouse with special paid leave during pregnancy (women only) (self-support leave) to use in certain circumstances such as Consideration of break time during pregnancy to participate in a child's school event, a work-at-home Absence due to sickness (women only) program for employees providing family care, as well as a re-hiring system for employees who have temporarily left Prenatal absence (women only) the company to provide family care. Paternity leave (men only) Furthermore, we have made it possible for employees Loan system for childbirth to take half-day absences from work to care for elderly Lump-sum allowance for family members or attend to a sick child, and have childbirth and childcare introduced a reduced working hour system that allows Postnatal absence (women only) employees to work shorter hours on a certain day of every Childcare allowance (excluding managerial class) week, as one form of reducing working hours for family care. Childrearing time In fiscal 2019, we will further support the work-life Childcare leave balance of our employees by expanding the scope of Benefits during childcare leave special paid leave (self-support leave) to include PTA (Mitsubishi Electric Ryoyukai) Reduced working hours activities. In addition, we will support the development for childcare of the next generation by introducing a temporary leave Homeworking system system for employees who wish to undergo fertility Special paid leave treatments. There will also be an extension to the scope (Self support leave) of the program that allows employees to take an absence Hourly leave system from work to take care of sick children who are under Nursing absence elementary school age, to also include children who are Plan selection currently in elementary school. In fiscal 2020, we will also be introducing an hourly Re-employment system leave system that allows employees to take up to 40 hours off from work per year. Employees will be able to take off Work-life balance support measures related to childcare (As of April 2018) from work on an hourly basis by using part of their annual (As of April 2019) 117 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social Diamond Kids Day-care centers To support the career development of employees raising corresponding to the workplace, catering to extended children, Mitsubishi Electric opened Diamond Kids, an hours, and ensuring security measures that prevent onsite day-care center, in Kamakura City, Kanagawa intrusion by suspicious individuals as well as accident Prefecture and Amagasaki City, Hyogo Prefecture on prevention measures, Diamond Kids offers a childcare October 1, 2014, with an enrollment of approximately 10 environment that allows employees to fully concentrate children in each center. on their jobs without worrying about their children. It also By providing its services in locations adjacent to a promotes employees' return to work after taking a leave, Mitsubishi Electric workplace on days and during hours by accepting children all year round. Name Diamond Kids Shonan Diamond Kids Itami 5-1-1 Ofuna, Kamakura City, Kanagawa 6-9-22 Tsukaguchi-honmachi, Amagasaki City, Hyogo Prefecture Location Prefecture Within the Mitsubishi Electric Health Insurance Association Within the Information Technology R&D Center Itami General Gymnasium BRIO Facility area Floor space: approx. 100m2 Enrollment capacity Approx. 10 children Children's ages Ages 0 (children over 57 days old) up to enrollment in primary school Eligibility Mitsubishi Electric employees (not restricted to women) Operating hours 8:00 – 18:00 (extended hours up to 21:00) Other programs Flextime Special paid leave (Self-support leave) Flextime allows employees to decide on their working Employees who do not use up their annual paid vacation hours for themselves so that they may improve their time by the end of the fiscal year may accumulate up to productivity and exercise creativity, and thereby achieve 20 days of unused vacation time and carry them over to a good balance between their corporate life and personal the next fiscal year and onward. life. Those who receive company approval to take more The program may be utilized depending on the specific than three days off from work to recuperate from an duties and job performance of each employee. illness, engage in family care, take part in a volunteer Working hours are divided into core time and activity, etc., may acquire a self-support leave. flexible time. Core time is a band of time during which all employees must be present in the office as a rule unless Work-at-home program special circumstances exist. Flexible time is a band of time In pursuit of a flexible work style for efficiently performing within which employees may choose when they arrive work anywhere, we have expanded the eligible users and depart from the office in consideration of the progress and increased the flexibility of using the program in fiscal of their work and fluctuations in workloads. Specific time 2019. bands are determined by each office. Employees can use the program for reasons other than to care for children or elderly family members, such as for the purpose of improving productivity through efficient performance of work and promoting work-life balance. Utilization  status of childcare and family care programs (by Mitsubishi Electric employees) (Unit: No. of employees) No. of employees FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 who have taken a leave Men Women Total Men Women Total Men Women Total Childcare leave 12 237 249 24 273 297 38 302 340 Acquisition rate of leave of absence (%) — 98% — — 98% — — 99% — Reduced working hours for childcare 5 348 353 11 368 379 13 379 392 Reduced working hours during pregnancy — 13 13 — 11 11 — 20 20 Family care leave 3 4 7 7 4 11 11 7 18 Reduced working hours for family care 5 4 9 4 8 12 11 6 7 Prenatal and postnatal absence — 142 142 — 182 182 — 178 178 Paternity leave 658 — 658 735 — 735 769 — 769 Nursing absence 18 8 26 13 15 28 20 15 35 118 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social Creating a working environment where work-life balance can be achieved by everyone through a Work Style Reforms Since fiscal 2017, Mitsubishi Electric promotes a Work During the first two years of the initiative, companyStyle Reforms as a management policy, and strives to wide efforts were made to fully disseminate and create a working environment where work-life balance can establish the initiative. We provided information and be achieved by everyone by creating a corporate culture promoted employee awareness through posters, inthat places even greater emphasis on achievements and house newsletters, the internal website and other such efficiency and reforming employees' attitudes toward tools, and implemented an education campaign to raise work. awareness of Work Style Reforms for employees in Each department, organization and office implements managerial positions. In February 2017, the President’ s specific measures that promote the reform of working Forum on Work Style Reforms was launched, in which the styles based on the following four perspectives. president of Mitsubishi Electric makes a round of all offices to personally explain the objectives and importance of Four perspectives on Work Style Reforms the initiative to all employees. In addition to this Group-wide initiative, each office also implements activities that suit their specific situations. Four perspectives on Work Style Reforms Improvement of productivity Further pursuit of by streamlining operations achievements and efficiency ・Thorough elimination of waste ・Establishment of an awareness to based on the principles of JIT Kaizen produce results within a limited activities (reduction of conferences, amount of time documents and travel time, review ・Development of a scheme to of operational processes, etc.) evaluate productivity and efficiency, ・Increased utilization of IT for and strengthening the operational efficiency implementation of proper evaluation Promotion of communication Work-life fulfillment in the workplace ・Sharing the awareness that a ・Sharing the status of operations in “fulfilling life” and “rewarding the workplace through daily work” are closely related greetings and communication ・Applying the knowledge and ・Promotion of work-load alleviation mental/physical health that are gained through mutual cooperation between through having a fulfilling life to individuals and departments, as well achieving a rewarding work experience as reviews of work allocation *J IT (Just in Time): Work process improvement activity in which all employees eliminate operational inefficiencies to improve the quality of all work processes. Work Style Reforms Outcome of previous activities Three years have passed since the Work Style Reforms who experienced changes in their work style increased began in fiscal 2017. Through driving the reforms based and working hours fell sharply. These reforms, therefore, Changes in the number of employees who worked more Percentage of employees who responded that they had a on the four goodperspectives, the percentage work-life balance（Employee of employees Attitude survey） have produced positive than 80 hours outcomes. of overtime a month Total number of people （名） 70 60 50 40 30 20 10 0 2017 2018 2019 (FY) 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) Percentage of employees who responded that they had Changes in the number of employees who worked a good work-life balance (Employee Attitude Survey) more than 80 hours of overtime a month Examples of office-specific activities ● Lectures for management personnel by external lecturers ● Establishing conference rules (50 minutes as a rule, no meetings to be held after 5 p.m., etc.) ● Introducing condensed work times ● Introducing Refresh Wednesday to promote work-life balance 119 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social At Mitsubishi Electric, Head Office management increasing the efficiency of company-wide operations by departments play a central role in streamlining and promoting the following specific measures. 1. Developing an IT environment ◦ Introducing tablets and eliminating paper documents from executive meetings ◦ Providing mobile terminals to employees in all offices who need them ◦ Implementing of video conferences for meetings between remote offices and reduction of business trips ◦ Realizing flexible working styles by expanding the work-at-home program ◦ Promoting the use of work smartphones outside the company (schedule confirmation, verification tasks, etc.) 2. Simplifying and reducing company-wide documents ◦ Simplifying documents by shortening discussion times and schedules in management meetings ◦ Reducing the number of periodic reports (weekly reports, monthly reports, etc.) issued by each department ◦ Reviewing report formats 3. Promoting indirect JIT Kaizen activities ◦ Analyzing operations by external consultants and implementing JIT Kaizen activities company-wide President's Forum To accelerate the promotion of office Work Style Reforms, which is a key management policy, and accepts a wide the President's Forum meeting began in February 2017 range of inputs from employees such as issues they as a president-employee conversation opportunity. face in promoting reform and opinions and requests on The president explains to employees the objective corporate matters. The president will incorporate these and focus of actions surrounding Work Style Reforms, inputs to develop more effective measures. President's Forum (2018) President's Forum VOICE (Corporate Human Resources Div. member) Manager, CP-Plan Promotion Center, Corporate Human Resources Div., Mitsubishi Electric Corporation Hiroko Morisaki It has been three years since the start of the initiative and now more and more employees are feeling that their work style has changed. For example, using laptops in meetings is now an everyday sight. We will continue to foster enhancements in the corporate culture and environment so that all employees can feel the change. Yet Work Style Reforms extends beyond just improving operational efficiency. To achieve these reforms goal of creating a workplace environment in which everyone can maintain physical and psychological health and work in good spirits, we aim to develop a company where every single employee is always aware of the value of improving their work and finds their work fulfilling. 120 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social Supporting Career Development Basic Policy A company is its people, and cannot grow without believes it is important to link the expertise, skills, their growth. The development and utilization of human and mentality it has cultivated as an organization to resources is the source of a company's development, and maintaining and strengthening corporate competitiveness education is a fundamental undertaking that creates the and contributing to society. By adding new values at times foundation of management. and achieving further growth, we actively promote the Under this principle, the Mitsubishi Electric Group human resource development of all our employees. Human Resources Development System Supports the Career of Employees Mitsubishi Electric's training system for employees in opportunities at overseas sites and universities in Japan Japan consists of passing down everyday business knowand abroad are provided. Emphasis is also placed on how and acumen through on-the-job training. Knowledge a managerial training program that focuses on training and skills that are difficult to acquire through on-theindividuals for the core management positions that drive job training as well as career development are provided our businesses, and on developing core personnel and through off-the-job training on a supplementary basis. leaders. Off-the-job training consists of conferring information on With regard to new graduate employees and midethics, legal compliance, and other matters. Exceptional career recruits, we provide company orientation and teachers from inside or outside the company provide training sessions to elicit their consciousness as workers expertise and skills training, or motivational education. and educate them on basic knowledge, management Tests and competitions to improve skill levels are principles, compliance, and other matters. conducted, and practical training or international study Self-development support program Stratified training program Mitsubishi Electric instituted a self-development support In fiscal 2012, Mitsubishi Electric introduced Valueprogram that supports employees' voluntary skills up Training, a stratified training program intended for development based on a human resource development employees at certain junctions in their career (at ages 25, system that allows employees to take the initiative to 30 and 40), to provide an awareness and understanding actively develop their own skills. of the qualities and roles that are expected of them at The program provides support in the form of money those ages. and time for participants in educational programs The program aims to strengthen young employees' inside and outside the company and also pays bounties capacity for work, or the mentality, knowledge, and skills to employees that have acquired certain external they need to fulfill their duties, and medium-level and certifications. The program is intended to foster a corporate veteran employees' capacity for development, or their culture in which each and every employee independently skills to convey their working capacity to the younger and actively takes on the challenge of developing their generation (subordinates and juniors) and enhance their skills to reach higher goals as a professional. capacity for work. Through this program, we will make continued efforts to strengthen the working capacity of each employee and create a culture for development in the workplace as a whole. 121 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social Promoting systematic and efficient skills Mitsubishi Electric Group Skills Competition development A skills competition is held annually as a measure to Mitsubishi Electric introduced to its operations in Japan a strengthen the skills of the Mitsubishi Electric Group, with point system for employee training, to promote systematic the aim of handing down skills and raising skills to even and efficient skill and capability development by tracking higher levels, further creating a climate that respects the progress of ability-building activities by its employees, skills, and developing top-level engineers. particularly its young employees. Each training course is worth a certain number of points. Employees receive the relevant points upon completing each course, and aim to achieve their individually recommended total number of points. Mitsubishi Electric Group Skills Competition Point system for employee training Passing on technological skills, knowledge, and know-how In order to pass on the skills possessed by highly experienced employees to younger technicians at Japan production sites accompanying the company's generational shift, we have developed a training program that allows the skills of accomplished employees to be learned in one-on-one settings. Technical skills are also passed on to young technicians through various measures such as installing technical help desks through which newer employees can consult with highly experienced employees through the company's intranet. Technical help desks 122 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social Ensuring Occupational Safety & Health Basic Policy Mitsubishi Electric adheres to the basic policy of the best of their ability, comfortably and in good health. prioritizing the safety and health of our employees above This basic policy underlies our company-wide Fiveall else. Based on the understanding that health and year Plan (current plan covering the five years from safety management form the foundation of business FY2018 to FY2022), which defines priority measures in management, we aim to establish a culture that places safety and health management, respectively, and by which top priority on safety and health in all social and business we implement specific activities toward achieving annual environments. Furthermore, we strive to provide mental targets. Our affiliates in Japan and overseas also engage healthcare to all employees as we endeavor to create a in health and safety management activities in line with workplace environment that allows everyone to work to relevant laws, regulations and company-specific issues. Promotional Framework The Mitsubishi Electric Group actively promotes safety promote both top-down and bottom-up activities that aim and health activities across the entire Group under the to raise the level of safety and health. strong leadership of the top management. In case of an industrial accident occurs, safety Ongoing efforts are made to strengthen the safety measures are immediately taken by the department where and health management framework, as Mitsubishi Electric the accident occurred. At the same time, efforts are made and its affiliates in Japan and overseas cooperate in to prevent similar accidents by delegating a third party exchanging information, engage in education activities, to conduct safety inspections, and laterally disseminating and implement various safety measures. Active case reports of disasters and countermeasures. communication is also held with employees through meetings with labor unions and the Safety and Health Committee, and labor-management efforts are made to Frequency of Labor Accidents Occupational Safety and Health Management (Number of Accidents Requiring System Leave Per Million Hours) In 2009, Mitsubishi Electric introduced the Occupational (cases/million hours) 1.20 Safety and Health Management System (OSHMS*). Under 1.2 1.15 the program, each office creates a PDCA cycle for safety 1.05 1.06 1.06 1.00 1.02 and health activities based on the Mitsubishi Electric 0.96 0.98 0.94 1.0 Group's requirements for safety and health management, such as in regard to the development of a management framework in each office governed by a safety and health 0.8 supervisor and the implementation of risk assessments and other relevant activities. 0.58 0.6 0.54 The goal is to raise the occupational safety and health 0.44 0.49 0.51 0.44 0.45 0.41 0.41 management level of the company as a whole. As a result 0.39 of this initiative, we have achieved one of the lowest 0.4 frequency rates and severity rates of industrial accidents 0.19 (number of people killed or injured in a fatal accident or 0.2 0.12 0.17 0.10 an accident that requires time off from work per 1 million 0.05 0.08 0.04 0.06 0.06 0.04 hours of work, and number of working days lost per 1,000 0 hours) in the industry. 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 * OSHMS (Occupational Safety and Health Management System) (FY) Mitsubishi Electric (Non-consolidated) Manufacturing industries Electric machinery and product manufacturing industries Frequency of Labor Accidents (Number of accidents requiring a leave, per million hours) 123 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social Thorough Safety and Health Education The Mitsubishi Electric Group implements safety and health education that matches its business characteristics and social environment, including stratified programs and occupation-specific programs, in addition to education programs prescribed by law. As a common feature of the Group, Mitsubishi Electric and its affiliates in Japan also provide safety and health education based on an internal e-learning system, which has been instrumental in promoting greater understanding of the principles and concept of safety and health to more than 100,000 employees, managers, and supervisors every year. Furthermore, efforts are also made to strengthen employee safety education through risk simulation, such as by installing a safety room. E-learning of Safety and Health Education Danger simulation room at Mitsubishi Electric's Himeji Works To increase employee sensitivity to danger, a danger simulation room was created in 2011, where education is provided to all onsite employees and employees of affiliated companies (approx. 6,000) every year. Its facilities are being upgraded in sequence, such as by adding a slipping and falling simulation machine, a machine that simulates gear accidents, and a facility for engaging in finger-pointing safety confirmation. Danger simulation room Health Management Initiatives toward a Healthy Company Since 2002, Mitsubishi Electric and its affiliates in Japan III, and in May of the same year we held the Mitsubishi have carried out the Mitsubishi Electric Group Health Plan Electric Group Health Convention attended by the top 21 (MHP21) intended for their 100,000-some employees management of Mitsubishi Electric, labor union, and and their families, as a three-party cooperation project health insurance society as well as the executives of (Collaborative Health) with the labor union and health each office and affiliate in Japan. In the convention, while insurance society. MHP21 promotes a review of lifestyle renewing our determination to commit to the creation of habits from an early stage, as a means for preventing a safe, healthy, and comfortable workplace, we adopted lifestyle-related diseases and thereby improving Quality of a Health Declaration with the aim of becoming a Healthy Life (QOL), and for realizing a health-oriented company. Company Group. With focus on strengthening individual Under the slogan, Change Your Lifestyle Habits, Extend approaches based on health data, introducing an award Your Healthy Years, MHP21 involves setting companysystem for healthy offices, and promoting cooperation wide improvement goals in five health categories— between Mitsubishi Electric and its affiliates in Japan, we maintaining proper body weight, creating an active aim to revitalize Group activities as a whole in Stage III. lifestyle, stopping smoking, maintaining proper dental Our affiliates overseas are likewise taking initiatives care, and sleeping properly—and evaluating the degree of to maintain and promote health among their employees, achievement of these goals every year. in consideration of the health situation in their respective In 2017, a new five-year plan was launched as Stage countries. 124 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social Targets and results of MHP21 activities Before Stage I Stage II Stage III Stage III MHP21 activities commencement of Final year Final year First year Target Priority items activities (FY2002) (FY2012) (FY2017) (FY2019) (FY2018−2022) People maintaining proper 73.0% 71.7% 70.4% 69.4% 73% or more body weight*1 People who have an active 11.7% 16.2% 24.1% 25.2% 39% or more lifestyle*2 Smokers 40.0% 27.6% 24.7% 23.5% 20% or less People who brush their teeth 13.3% 20.5% 22.5% 25.3% 25% or more three times a day or more People who get enough sleep – – – 66.8% 85% or more and are well rested*3 *1 BMI of 18.5 or more and less than 25.0 *2 30 minutes or more of exercise twice a week or more, or an average of 10,000 steps (1 hour of walking) or more per day *3 Included from Stage III Promoting Mental Health Care Mental health care is a top priority for health management are repeatedly implemented through lectures and internal in the Mitsubishi Electric Group. By establishing a e-learning programs, to provide knowledge of mental counseling program that includes an industrial physician health and strengthen responses to mental health among and/or counselor and other such initiatives, active efforts managers and employees, especially for mental health. are made to help employees cope with everyday worries * EAP (Employee Assistance Program): a program that provides related to work and family and other emotional issues. support to employees Also through a legislated stress check system, and through telephone and e-mail counseling provided by an employee assistance program (EAP*), importance is placed on the primary prevention of employee mental health disorders. Employees who return to work after taking a mental health leave are fully supported by the belonging department, human resource department, and industrial physician based on the Mitsubishi Electric Guidelines for Return-to-Work Support, and every effort is made to facilitate their return to their workplace and prevent any relapse. Furthermore, by appointing dedicated counselors in the Mitsubishi Electric head office, focused care is also provided to employees posted outside of Japan, where working and living environments largely differ from Japan. Mental Health Care Education In terms of education, line-care and self-care training Creating Comfortable Workplace Environments The Mitsubishi Electric Group recognizes that people By establishing own standards (workplace environment spend a large part of their lives at their place of standards) for air, lighting, noise, and facilities, and by employment, so we make people-friendly enhancements working to achieve each standard, Mitsubishi Electric to the workplace environment and promote the creation pursues ongoing efforts to create comfortable workplace of pleasant spaces that also give consideration to elderly environments. people and people with disabilities. 125 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social Supply Chain Management Basic Policy The Mitsubishi Electric Group ensures fair and impartial Group, risks are also mitigated along the supply chain. selection and evaluation of business partners in Japan The Group’ s criteria for evaluating business partners and overseas by providing an explanation of the Group's include not only quality, cost, delivery schedules and Purchasing Policy and CSR Procurement Policy, and services, but also initiatives in response to environmental requesting business partners' understanding of these regulations and CSR initiatives. As a basic policy, the policies. By ensuring proper evaluation of suppliers based Group preferentially procures materials from suppliers on selection and evaluation criteria established by the who rank high in a comprehensive evaluation. Our Purchasing Philosophy Mitsubishi Electric purchases a wide variety of materials and components from both Japanese and overseas markets. We recognize our corporate responsibility and are eager to provide business opportunities for the communities in which we operate. 1. Easy Access and Equal Opportunity To guarantee our customers the highest-quality products, we are constantly searching for new suppliers. We encourage business partners from all over the world, regardless of size, to contact us about submitting a quotation. The decision to embark on a new business relationship is made after careful consideration of three major factors: product price, product quality, and delivery performance. To ensure continued high quality and efficiency, we periodically review our relationships with our partners. 2. Mutual Prosperity We believe in long-term relationships built upon understanding and trust. This will allow the participation of our business partners during the product development stage, paving the way for mutual prosperity. 3. Ecological Soundness We are interested in the materials and manufacturing processes used by our suppliers. Because we value the environment, we buy only ecologically sound products. Our mission is to satisfy the needs of people around the globe. To meet their growing expectations, we must widen and strengthen our affiliations with companies all over the world. We are seeking cooperation, not just business, and are looking for potential partners who are willing to join us in our drive toward global prosperity. CSR Procurement Policy We carry out material procurement activities in line with our CSR Procurement Policy, which was established in 2007. We have also established the CSR Procurement Guidelines in 2018 to widely disseminate Mitsubishi Electric’ s CSR policies and matters for compliance by our business partners. Going forward, approaches will be made to all business partners to verify their agreement to promote procurement activities in line with the guidelines. 1. Compliance with domestic and foreign laws/regulations and social standards （1） Ensuring compliance with laws and regulation （2） Respecting human rights and prohibiting discrimination, child labor, and forced labor （3） Creating proper work environments and giving consideration to safety and health 2. Assurance of quality and safety of products and services 3. Environmental considerations （1） Procuring materials with less negative impact on the environment （2） Ensuring strict management of harmful chemical substances based on an environmental management system 4. Promotion of fair trade based on corporate ethics （1） Practicing honest trade on fair and equal footing, based on laws/regulations and agreements （2） Ensuring strict management and safeguarding of information by establishing an information security system （3） Thorough elimination of fraudulence, bribery, and other such conduct that violates corporate ethics 126 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social Framework for Promotion of Supply Chain Management The Mitsubishi Electric Group launched the WΣ21II (Worldwide Strategic Integration for Global Markets in the *WΣ21Ⅱ：An initiative by the Corporate Purchasing 21st Century Advance to the Next Stage)* activity in April Division toward achieving sales of 5 trillion yen and an operating profit of 8% or more 2017, and is promoting optimal procurement activities by 2020 suited to each region through the Materials Planning 1. Duration: Three years from 4/1/2017 to 3/31/2020 Office. The Materials Planning Office was established in 2. Priority activities collaboration among regional corporate offices in China, （1） Progress of cost-planning activities toward Asia, Europe and Americas to implement purchasing the achievement of target costs strategies through conferences of procurement officers （2） Strengthening of the competitiveness of and other such meetings. Accompanying this initiative, product models in cooperation with suppliers the supply chain has also expanded to various countries （3） Promotion of optimal regional procurement where the Group operates, so initiatives are also pursued throughout the world to mitigate any perceived risks regarding a range of issues （4） Strengthening of supply chain management related to labor practices and environmental problems. （5） Construction of a platform for supporting relevant activities and measures Framework for promotion of supply chain management Purchasing divisions of domestic manufacturing sites and research facilities Cooperation Mitsubishi Electric Purchasing divisions of Head Office overseas affiliated companies Corporate Purchasing Division (China, Asia, Europe, US) Overseas Materials Planning Office Purchasing divisions of domestic affiliated companies Framework for promotion of supply chain management Local procurement rate in the major regions (Mitsubishi Electric Group) Other Local procurement Other Local procurement Other Local procurement Other Local procurement rate rate rate rate 34% 66% 26% 74% 41% 59% 59% 41% Local Local Local production Local production production production ratio ratio ratio ratio 30% 24% China Asia 45% Europe USA 55% Foreign 66% Foreign 74% 59% 41% 17% origin origin 11% 29% 29% Foreign origin Foreign origin Local procurement rate in the major regions (Mitsubishi Electric Group) *1 L ocal procurement rate: Materials, parts, etc. (regardless of country of origin) that are procured by overseas production sites at their own discretion *2 Local production ratio: Among all locally procured items, the procurement ratio of items produced in the country of the overseas site *3 Foreign origin: Among all locally procured items, the procurement ratio of items produced in countries other than the country of the overseas site 127 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Group Policies for Responsible Minerals Procurement The Mitsubishi Electric Group aims for transparency minerals from the supply chain in situations where their in its supply chain to avoid any affiliation with armed procurement encourages or contributes to serious human groups that trade in conflict minerals*1 as their source rights violations or environmental destruction. of funding. We also recognize the possibilities of human *1 C onflict minerals refers to gold, tin, tantalum, tungsten, and rights violations occurring in the severe labor conditions other minerals that have been determined by the U.S. State Department to be a source of support for armed groups in cobalt mining sites as a major problem. The Group when mined in the countries referred to above. adheres to the OECD Due Diligence Guidance for *2  OECD Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Supply Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals from ConflictChains of Minerals from Conflict-Affected and HighAffected and High-Risk Areas*2, and removes certain Risk Areas Report of survey results of restrictions on conflict minerals Mitsubishi Electric takes part in the Responsible Minerals In addition to requesting suppliers to collect accurate Trade Working Group of the Japan Electronics and information on smelting companies, various other Information Technology Industries Association (JEITA), and measures will continue to be implemented in order to addresses restrictions on conflict minerals in cooperation comply with the restrictions on conflict minerals. We also with other industry organizations. Surveys are conducted conduct opinion exchanges with NPOs regarding mineral using the survey form (the Conflict Minerals Reporting procurement. Template (CMRT*1) or the Cobalt Reporting Template *1 C  onflict Minerals Reporting Template issued by the (CRT*2)) that is commonly used in the automobile, Responsible Minerals Initiative *2 Cobalt Reporting Template issued by the Responsible electric, and electronic industries. In fiscal 2019, surveys Minerals Initiative were carried out on approximately 1,200 suppliers, and Human Rights Management responses were obtained from 83% of these suppliers. Identification of smelting companies in FY2019 (No. of smelting companies identified: 4,600 companies) Tin Tantalum Tungsten Gold 70% 73% 71% 74% Of the smelting companies that have been identified, it was found that roughly 84% handle conflict-free minerals. Strengthening CSR Initiatives along the Supply Chain Initiatives to address environmental issues Since 2006, the Mitsubishi Electric Group has been chemical substances contained in components and evaluating the progress of suppliers’initiatives to address materials they deliver to our company. Under the System, environmental issues under the Green Accreditation suppliers who meet our standards are certified. System. Based on the Green Procurement Standards We ultimately minimize environmental risks by Guide and using an original survey form, the System properly evaluating the progress of our suppliers’ involves a survey of each supplier’ s progress in acquiring environmental initiatives under this System, and by environmental management system certification, the providing advice on any corrections that should be made supplier’ s status of compliance with laws and regulations by suppliers who do not meet the certification standards. related to the environment, and its management of Green Accreditation Guideline Initiatives to address social issues From 2009, the status of CSR initiatives has been included formulated and announced by the Responsible Business in the survey items, and a survey is also made of issues Alliance, and the Supply Chain CSR Promotion Guidebook such as human rights, labor practices, safety and health, issued by JEITA’ s Materials Committee. To verify our legal compliance, and product safety. Furthermore, suppliers’commitment to promoting the content of the the CSR Procurement Guidelines were established in guidelines, a consent form is attached to the last page of 2018 based on international standards; the Guidelines the guidelines. contain the RBA Code of Conduct (Version 6.0) that was CSR Procurement Guideline 128 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social We have raised the following two points as the core activity objectives of fiscal 2020. 1. W e will obtain the consent forms for the CSR 2. A  ctivities aimed at understanding and Procurement Guidelines from suppliers that mitigating serious human rights risks in the did not respond in the last fiscal year, as well supply chain (forced labor of foreign laborers, as for applicable suppliers in fiscal 2019. dangerous or hazardous labor, etc.) In fiscal 2018, we requested about one third of all In addition to the investigations in progress, we will use suppliers to sign the consent forms based on the CSR a check sheet we created to discern the existence of Procurement Guidelines. For the suppliers that have not human rights violations, and conduct activities aimed yet completed the signing for fiscal 2018, in addition toward mitigating those issues. to aiming to complete the signing, we will also seek to * The Mitsubishi Electric Group’ s Green Procurement Standards obtain signatures from suppliers for fiscal 2020. Guide and CSR Procurement Guidelines are provided below. These documents are reviewed as appropriate in response to changes in laws, regulations and social norms. Procurement Activities Requests to Suppliers Suppliers to the Mitsubishi Electric Group are requested comply with the CSR Procurement Guidelines and a to gain an understanding of the Group’ s Purchasing completed survey form upon reading and understanding Policy and CSR Procurement Policy, and to disseminate the guidelines. these policies to their supply chain. They are especially For details, please refer to each of our guidelines requested to thoroughly comply with the points below, (Green Procurement Standards Guide, CSR Procurement which the Group has identified as priority issues to be Guidelines). addressed through the entire supply chain. Additionally, Procurement Activities new suppliers are asked to submit their agreement to 1. Compliance with laws, regulations and social norms Please comply with laws and regulations in countries and regions where you engage in business, as well as with international agreements, transaction ethics, and social norms. (Elimination of corrupt practices such as bribery, embezzlement, and illegal political contributions; compliance with relevant laws and regulations, including the Antimonopoly Act, Subcontractor Act, and Foreign Exchange Act; prohibition of the illegal acquisition and utilization of intellectual property; proper information disclosure; execution of faithful transactions based on contracts, etc.) 2. Respect for human rights Please respect basic human rights in countries and regions where you engage in business. (Prohibition of inhumane treatment like forced labor, child labor, abusive treatment, human trafficking, and harassment; prohibition of all forms of discrimination; proper payment of wages; proper management of working hours; respect for the right to organize, etc.) 3. Consideration for health and safety Please give due consideration to health and safety in all countries and regions where you engage in business. (Safety measures for machines and devices; evaluation and measures against the occurrence of accident and health hazard risks; preventive measures against large-scale disasters and accidents, etc.) 4. Environmental considerations Please take measures to provide products and services that place minimum burden on the environment. (Acquisition, maintenance and management of environmental management system certification; compliance with environmental laws and regulations; proper management of chemical substances in products, etc.) 5. Product and service quality and safety Please take measures to ensure the quality and safety of products and services you provide. (Design, evaluation and testing for ensuring safety; compliance with laws and regulations related to safety; construction, maintenance and management of quality management systems, etc.) 6. Security measures for information systems Please take appropriate measures to protect against computer network threats. (Construction of prevention measures against computer viruses and cyberattacks; prevention of information leakage through proper management of confidential information and personal information, etc.) 129 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social Evaluation Status of Suppliers' Initiatives to Address CSR Issues Basic policy of supplier surveys The Mitsubishi Electric Group verifies the progress of years, as a rule)). In response to our suppliers’replies to suppliers’initiatives to respond to the requirements these surveys, we provide feedback about the results of outlined in the Green Procurement Standards Guide the evaluation. We also communicate with suppliers who and CSR Procurement Guidelines by requesting principal have scored low in any one of the survey items, to request suppliers who fall within the top 80% in terms of purchase the necessary corrections. This is done through individual amounts to complete a survey form (prior to commencing meetings and other such means. The survey form has transactions in the case of new transactions and at certain been revised in 2018 following the formulation of the CSR intervals in the case of ongoing transactions (every three Procurement Guidelines. Activity results From 2006, the evaluation covered domestic suppliers placed priority on the China and Thailand region, but only. However, the range was expanded in fiscal 2018 to from fiscal 2019, we extended survey implementation to include overseas suppliers also. The fiscal 2018 survey Europe and the U.S. Responses to the Green Accreditation/CSR Procurement survey form (Mitsubishi Electric) FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2019 Existing suppliers 1,465 728 696 1,201 60 New suppliers 27 15 25 (100% implementation rate) Response rate 99.9% 100% 99.0% 96.0% * Total number of suppliers: Approx. 10,000 companies (includes about 2,700 suppliers that were among the top 80% of purchases) * We conducted surveys for all of the above suppliers (about 2,700 companies) in the three-year period between 2016 and 2018. * The above figures include cases where the survey form was re-submitted following guidance for improvement. * In FY 2019, there were no suppliers whose business relationship with the Mitsubishi Electric Group was canceled because of their evaluation results. Responses to the Green Accreditation/CSR Procurement survey form (domestic and overseas affiliated companies of Mitsubishi Electric) FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2019 FY 2019 Surveyed suppliers 212 346 1,378 595 Response rate 100% 99.3% 94.0% 60.5% Signatures for the CSR Procurement Guidelines consent forms in FY 2019 Mitsubishi Electric Domestic and overseas affiliated companies Requested companies Approx. 1,400 companies Approx. 700 companies Responses (rate) Approx. 1,280 companies (91%) Approx. 400 companies (57%) Agreements (rate) Approx. 1,150 companies (82%) Approx. 400 companies (57%) 130 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social FY2019 rate of green accreditation certification FY2019 results of supplier surveys on green among suppliers (Mitsubishi Electric Group) accreditation/CSR procurement Not certified A (excellent) B (good) C (fair) D (improvement required) N.A. 10% 97.2 0.3% % Human rights & labor practices 0.0% 2.2% Certified 92.9 5.6% % 90% Safety & health 0.0% 1.3% 93.4 FY 2019 rate of green accreditation 0.5% % Fair trade & certification among suppliers 0.1% ethics (Mitsubishi Electric) 5.8% 70.9% 0.8% Quality & safety 0.3% 0.4% 95.6 3.3% % Information 0.3% 0.7% 75.8% Management 4.8% system 1.5% 17.7% 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 （％） Ratio of suppliers FY 2019 results of green accreditation and CSR procurement surveys among suppliers (Mitsubishi Electric) Number of suppliers given guidance in fiscal 2019 and the content of the guidance (Mitsubishi Electric) No. of companies No. of companies Item given guidance given guidance Content of guidance Further strengthening of initiatives for the restriction Environment 97 26 of chemical substances in products (particularly in response to the revised RoHS2 Directive) Human rights, Encouraging secondary suppliers to take up CSR labor practices, 188 32 practices safety and health Providing safety guidance during an onsite inspection of a Providing safety guidance during an onsite inspection of a supplier's company (overseas) supplier's company (in Japan) 131 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social Communication with Suppliers At each office, the Mitsubishi Electric Group holds seminars that disseminate a full understanding of the Group's Purchasing Policy and CSR Procurement Policy among suppliers. In order to gain the approval of suppliers to the Mitsubishi Group’ s policies as demonstrated through these activities, we hold regular exchanges of views with our suppliers based on their responses to our Supplier Surveys. Suppliers are asked to further strengthen CSR initiatives at their companies as well. Furthermore, we conduct support activities for Business Continuity Planning (BCP)*, as well as holding a variety of seminars, including those about changes in chemical substance restrictions such as the EU RoHS Directive, and programs about compliance (including export control, information security and management, the Exchange of views with suppliers Subcontract Act, etc.). *B CP (business continuity planning): Being prepared for any disaster or other emergency situation by planning how to minimize damage to the company and how to continue or restore business activities. Fiscal 2019 seminars No. of participating companies Approx. 1,650 companies CSR procurement seminar (including 400 overseas companies) BCP reinforcement seminar 475 companies Information session on chemical substance restrictions Approx. 800 companies * The number of companies is the cumulative total number of companies. Seminars for suppliers held at each office Seminars for suppliers held at each office Seminars for suppliers held at each office (Communication Systems Center) (Power Distribution Systems Center) (Thailand region) VOICE (Supplier) Managing Director, Fuyo Astec Co. Ltd. Satoshi Sawano Before attending this seminar, I only had a vague idea of CSR as something a company engages in to contribute to society. After participating, I now understand that in recent years, these efforts are becoming legally required, and they do affect issues surrounding human rights and environmental problems in developing countries. Specific checklist items were identified in the survey form, so we'd like to take this opportunity to concentrate our efforts going forward to heighten our awareness of CSR-related issues in our company, establish a comfortable working environment for all, and grow the company in ways that benefit society. 132 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social Strengthening Partnerships with Suppliers The Mitsubishi Electric Group engages in jointdevelopment from the initial stages to the development of parts and materials, and works in partnership with suppliers to engage in VE activities with the aim of adopting advanced products, recycling resources, and reducing the consumption of materials. Through these activities, we reduce the input of materials and minimize environmental burden by making products more compact and lightweight, and build a win-win relationship that leads to increased sales and enhanced technology capabilities for both Mitsubishi Electric and our partners. We also give awards to suppliers whose achievements are especially significant. Mitsubishi Electric proactively conducts this activity to Award given by Mitsubishi Electric executives (Inazawa Works) suppliers not only in Japan but also overseas, including in the UK, US, China, Thailand, Indonesia, Mexico, India, and Colombia. We also promote internal human resource development, such as by conferring an instructor's certificate on those who have taken a written test and participated in the VE program in VE lectures, and demonstrate a certain level of knowledge. VE lecture in the Southeast Asia region (Indonesia) VE lecture in the Southeast Asia region (India) Presenting an award to a supplier Meeting with a supplier in the China region in the Southeast Asia region (Malaysia) 133 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social Providing Learning Programs on Procurement Laws and Regulations The Mitsubishi Electric Group offers various learning teach employees not to become involved in bribery, programs on laws and regulations related to the embezzlement, or any other form of action that goes operations of employees in charge of procurement against the principle of fair trade. Compliance education activities. In Japan for example, our course on materials related to procurement is also held for local employees in procurement laws provides guidance and education for charge of procurement operations overseas. thorough compliance with laws and regulations that To further strengthen CSR initiatives (particularly particularly pertain to procurement activities, such as the along our supply chain), we are making greater efforts Anti-Monopoly Act, the Act against Delay in Payment of to share information on activities implemented by each Subcontract Proceeds, Etc. to Subcontractors, and the office as well as instructional information, such as by Construction Contractors Law. Guidance and education holding Review Meetings for CSR Promotion in the Supply are also provided overseas. Based on the Code of Chain and providing CSR education to employees in Conduct and check sheets, learning programs strictly procurement departments. Compliance education related to procurement in the Thailand region Review Meeting for CSR Promotion in the Supply Chain 134 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social Philanthropic Activities Community Participation and Development Our Philosophy on Philanthropic Activities As a corporate citizen committed to meeting societal needs and expectations, the Mitsubishi Electric Group will make full use of the resources it has at hand to contribute to creating an affluent society in partnership with its employees. Our Policies on Philanthropic Activities ・We shall carry out community-based activities in response to societal needs in the fields of social welfare and global environmental conservation. ・We shall contribute to developing the next generation through activities that support the promotion of science and technology, culture and arts, and sports. Philanthropy Promotion Framework As part of the Group’ s CSR initiatives, each Mitsubishi SOCIO-ROOTS Fund, an independent charity through Electric Group company and business site is pursuing which the company matches employee donations in community activities to meet local needs. This effort is Japan, and independent Mitsubishi Electric charitable based on the philosophy and policies on philanthropic foundations in Thailand and the United States. activities. The Group also maintains the Mitsubishi Electric Japan Overseas Philanthropic Foundations SOCIO-ROOTS Fund America Thailand CSR Committee Manufacturing Aﬃliates Aﬃliates Works FY2019 Activity Results * The amount spent by Mitsubishi Electric Corporation (includes philanthropic-related expenses such as internal programs and product donations) Total donations using Satoyama Woodland Mitsubishi Electric Science the matching gift program: Preservation activities: Workshop held: Approx. 75 million yen 99 sessions 72 135 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social Social Welfare Mitsubishi Electric SOCIO-ROOTS Fund — Overview — The Mitsubishi Electric SOCIO-ROOTS Fund was established The Fund will continue to steadily support grass roots in 1992 as a gift program in which the Company matches activities, as its name indicates, so that it can help to create the amount of any donation made by its employees, smiles with big support that consists of consideration thus doubling the goodwill of the gift. Many employees shown to people in need by each employee. participate in the Fund each year. As of March 2019, the Fund has provided more than 13.4 billion yen to some 2,000 various social welfare facilities and programs. — Donations — Branches have been set up at each of our business sites Each Mitsubishi Electric business site makes inventive across Japan so that employees can provide monetary efforts to facilitate donation by its employees, carrying out gifts that benefit social welfare facilities in their community. fund-raising activities suitable to the site. Some examples Community chest of in each prefecture have cooperated of these activities include charity bazaars, charity auctions, since the Fund's inception to provide referrals to donation and donations through vending machines. recipients and information about community needs. Assistance that Delivers Our Commitment —Conveying the Good Intentions of Employees with a Smile— We provide assistance to not only facilities supporting people with disabilities, but also nurseries, maternal and child living support facilities, foster homes, and assisted living facilities. Through presentation ceremonies, we strive to convey the feelings of our employees and provide support that people can put a face to. Messages of thanks from these facilities are a big motivator for our activities and always put a smile on employees' faces. Donations for the Great East Japan Earthquake —Support for the healthy growth of children — The Fund is making ongoing efforts to support children affected by the earthquake. As of March 31, 2019, it has donated a sum of 162.5 million yen since the program began in fiscal 2012. 136 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social Global Environmental Conservation Employees participation program Woodland Preservation Project — Overview — We have conducted the Satoyama Woodland Preservation to the communities where our business sites are located. Project since 2007. This project seeks to restore familiar Under the key words simple and sustained, these nature, such as parks, forests, and rivers located in the activities are taking place throughout Japan in phases. vicinity of our business sites. Employees put in physical effort to participate in The aim of this project is to repay nature for its various building a safe and secure community, which also helps to bounties and for cultivating diverse life, and to contribute broaden communication with the local community. Woodland preservation project Recovering abandoned farmland Wetland preservation activity Activities on remote islands suffering from depopulation 137 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social Science and Technology Mitsubishi Electric Science Workshops Since 2009, through the Mitsubishi Electric Science Workshops children can experience basic scientific principles related to electricity, heat, sound, light, wind, communications and programming. The workshops convey the joy of science through experiments and other activities, show the relationships between the basic scientific principles taught and real products, and help the children realize how the products are useful in society. It is also a good opportunity for employees, who serve as lecturers, to look back on their work. In fiscal 2019, a total of 72 workshops were held. Seeing how an LCD TV works Experiment using wind and feathers Experiment on the three primary colors of light Culture and Arts, Sports Activities by Mitsubishi Electric's Sports Teams Basketball Tennis Nagoya Diamond Dolphins and Mitsubishi Electric Koalas, Professional players and employees who belong to actively engage in activities to promote basketball, Mitsubishi Electric's Tennis Japan League team Mitsubishi such as regularly sending their coaches and players to Electric Falcons sponsor tennis workshops throughout basketball workshops held throughout Japan for primary Japan. Also, through wheelchair tennis and blind tennis, and junior high school students. people with/without disabilities interact learning the importance of deepening mutual understanding. Basketball workshop Workshops in Tohoku 138 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social American football Badminton The American football team is continuing volunteer Our badminton team in the Japan League, called Diamond activities to express their gratitude to society. Wings, engages in activities to promote badminton The team has utilized the players' power to carry out and contribute to the local community mainly in Hyogo volunteering for reconstruction assistance for the Great prefecture, where the team is based. It helps train athletes East Japan Earthquake and cleaning activities in a park and shares the excitement of badminton by holding near practice areas. training sessions and allowing high school students to participate in practices. Cleaning of fallen leaves and sludge collected in a pond in the park Badminton workshop Culture and Arts Mouth and Foot Painting Artists of the World Exhibition Every year, Mitsubishi Electric Building Techno-Service throughout Japan starting in 1994. Promotional activities Co., Ltd. sponsors Mouth and Foot Painting Artists of the for the event are being continued by volunteers including World Exhibition throughout Japan. As the title indicates, the company employees and their families. the exhibition features paintings by artists around the world who are deprived of the use of their hands, and thus paint using their mouths or feet to hold a paintbrush. The company encountered paintings drawn by artists belonging to the Association of Mouth and Foot Painting Artists of the World for the first time in 1991, when it purchased paintings to put on the wall of a lodging attached to a training facility in Kodaira city, Tokyo. Employees who saw these paintings were so impressed with the pieces that were laboriously painted by such artists, that they hosted an informal painting exhibition in the training facility in 1992. The response to this exhibition was so overwhelmingly positive that it came to be held Mouth and Foot Painting Artists of the World Exhibition 139 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social Mitsubishi Electric Foundations Mitsubishi Electric America Foundation Summary as the foundation's ACCESSTEAM*. In fiscal 2019, the Established in 1991, the Mitsubishi Electric America ACCESSTEAM volunteered more than 7,600 hours to local Foundation (MEAF) has invested $18.5 million in community organizations. innovative projects that help young people with * Refers to the TEAM of Mitsubishi Electric volunteers in disabilities maximize their potential and participation in the U.S. that are empowering youth with disabilities, society. The employment rate of people with disabilities in and alludes to supporting ACCESS to employment in the the U.S. is about 21%, compared to about 70% of people field of S.T.E.A.M. (Science, Technology, Engineering, Art/ without disabilities. Therefore in 2012, MEAF launched its Design, and Mathematics). national M>PWR possible initiative focused on supporting innovative approaches to empower youth with disabilities so they can lead productive lives and achieve possible. Example of activities Through the 10-year M>PWR possible initiative, MEAF is aiming to“empower”youth and young veterans with disabilities to increase their employment* rate by 2020. MEAF aims to increase independence, self-confidence and employment possibilities by empowering young people with disabilities through funding for regional and nationwide organizations, and building networks between Work experience through the“M>PWR possible”initiative these organizations. In 2018, MEAF received the 2018 CATALYST AWARD from the American Association of People with Disabilities (AAPD) in recognition of its long-term efforts.* * MEAF supports the AAPD Summer Internship program, which places university students with disabilities in Congressional offices, federal agencies, and non-profit organizations in Washington, DC, since the program’ s inception in 2002. Collaboration with U.S. employees Employee volunteers from Mitsubishi Electric Group companies in the U.S. engage in their communities Local employees participating in a workshop organized by the MEAF Mitsubishi Electric Thai Foundation Summary to temples that care for AIDS patients. More than 500 Established in 1991, the Mitsubishi Electric Thai employees and local people participated at maximum at Foundation (METF)provides scholarships to university a time, and participants were able to share joy with many students, grants elementary school lunch, and conducts people through these activities. In 2017, the Foundation volunteer activities jointly with the Mitsubishi Electric began supporting the Prateep Dek Thai Project to build Group companies in Thailand. a Child Development Center in underprivileged areas. Furthermore, METF focuses on new volunteer activities in collaboration with the Thai Philanthropic Committee, which was newly established in 2015 to implement more effective activities throughout the Group. Example of activities Since 1993, scholarships have been awarded to students at four engineering universities. Aimed at students who have excellent grades, but have difficulties in studying due to economic circumstances, the scholarships help to develop Thai science and technology. Scholarship presentation ceremony Also, since 1999 the Foundation has granted a sum of money for school lunch to 30 elementary schools recommended by the Thai Ministry of Education. Collaboration with Thai employees In collaboration with local Mitsubishi Electric Group companies in Thailand, METF contributes to local communities through tree-planting activities, Science classroom for elementary school students , Community contribution activities through 5S (Seiri (Sort), Seiton (Set in Order), Seisou (Shine), Seiketsu (Standardize), Shitsuke (Sustain)) activities in temples, and making donations 5S activities in temples 140 About President's CSR at Contents Mitsubishi Electric Message Mitsubishi Electric Governance Environment Social Oversea Activities Support for a hospice (Germany) Support for the Special Olympics (Italy) Sponsoring a music festival El Primer Palau (Spain) Tree-planting by employees of group companies (Thailand) Educational support for underprivileged children (Colombia) 141 Inquiry: Mitsubishi Electric Corporation, CSR Promotion Center Corporate Administration Division, Tokyo Building, 2-7-3, Marunouchi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-8310, Japan Phone: 81-3-3218-2075
