Corporate Responsibility Report 2019 2 Table of contents About the Corporate Responsibility Report 3 Environment58 Strategic management using the Environmental CEO Statement 4 Management System 59 Lowering our environmental impact: Portrait of Munich Re 5 Higher resource efficiency and falling carbon emissions 61 Corporate governance 6 Society65 Creating value with global responsibility 7 Commitment to people and the environment 66 High compliance standards maintain integrity 12 Respecting human rights at all times in all places  19 Key figures 73 Core business 21 GRI content index 80 Corporate responsibility in insurance business 22 Corporate responsibility in investment 29 SRI ratings & indices 83 Solution-oriented responses to climate change 34 Using digitalisation responsibly 41 Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) 84 Increasing risk awareness in society 44 Independent auditor’s limited Employees48 assurance report 85 Strategic and target-oriented HR ­management 50 Contact and imprint 87 Diversity matters 52 Find and nurture talent: Recruiting and Retention 54 Munich Re _ CR-Report 2019 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 3 About the Further reporting Our voluntary commitments ­Corporate ResponsiMunich Re’s annual report provides our investors The voluntary commitments such as our acceptance of with detailed information on our corporate governance, the UN Global Compact, the Principles for Sustainable management and financial matters. Insurance (PSI) and the Principles for Responsible bility Report ­Investment (PRI) form the framework of our corporate In addition, our combined non-financial statement responsibility strategy. In the beginning of 2020, in accordance with Sections 289b(3) and 315b(3) Munich Re joined the UN-convened “Net-Zero Asset > GRI 102-45; 102-50; 102-52; 102-53; 102-54 of the German Commercial Code (HGB) meets the Owner Alliance” and will ensure its investments are standards of the European Union’s Corporate Social GHG-neutral by 2050. Responsibility (CSR) Directive. Ultimately, our CR Our business model is based on responsible corporate ­Report serves as a link to the standard financial reportgovernance that reconciles economic, environmental ing without itself containing any financial aspects. and social requirements. To this end, we rely on transparency and dialogue with our stakeholders. We also Selected topics – qualitative and quantitative establish global partnerships for sustainable developreporting ment. In our Corporate Responsibility (CR) Report, we describe the ways in which we embrace corporate To ensure that the Corporate Responsibility Report responsibility in our day-to-day operations. gives a comprehensive picture of our performance, the ­topics and content have been chosen according Our annual Corporate Responsibility Report also to their significance to our business operations and ­provides a review of our business fields of primary the interests of our stakeholders as well as their impact ­insurance and reinsurance as well as asset manageon efficiency, economic and social factors. ment with respect to the objectives we have defined, the measures we realised in the past year and the Verified indicators GRI Standards and Global Compact successes we have achieved. ­“Communication on Progress” Report The carbon footprint from our operational activities The measures and activities presented focus mainly on is the key indicator for measuring and assessing our This report has been prepared in accordance with the period from 1 January 2019 to 31 March 2020; the ­environmental performance. We calculate carbon GRI standards (“core” option). The GRI indicators have key figures relate to the 2019 financial year (ending emissions on a yearly basis from our consumption of been compiled in a separate GRI disclosure. In addi31 December 2019). Our Corporate Responsibility energy, paper and water, our business travel and tion, the Corporate Responsibility Report and the GRI ­Report has been available online in English since ­generation of waste. This calculation takes a standarddisclosure constitute our annual Communication on 11 May 2020. ised form and is of a high quality. Since 2015, an Progress Report for the UN Global Compact. ­external audit company confirmed that the entire ­Munich Re Group has met its objectives for selected quantitative environmental data (Find the actual report in his document and last year reports in our download center). Munich Re _ CR-Report 2019 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 4 Ladies local and global solutions are required on the climate front. For us, it boils down to two main issues. First, and Gentlemen, it’s about recognising how climate change alters cat­a­ strophe risks and to offer solutions to adapt to the ­effects of climate change, and second, finding ways > GRI 102-14 to slow the pace of climate change. Acting responsibly is central to the way we create added Key to mitigating climate change is the enabling of value at Munich Re, both for our Group and society new technologies for power generation, transportation, at large. This principle comes alive in our shared-­value energy storage and industrial production. We see ourapproach and is the foundation of our corporate reselves as being able to play a vital role by crafting the sponsibility strategy. We bring our comprehensive risk insurance solutions required to enable adoption of expertise to bear in providing solutions that reduce these technologies. We have undertaken to make our Digitalisation continues to open up new opportunities risk and mitigate the impact of an unfortunate event investment portfolio climate-neutral by 2050, in line for our organisation. In particular, we take full advanon individuals, society and the environment. Further, with the target of the Paris Agreement to limit the tage of the ability digitalisation gives us to collect, anwe take care to engage all stakeholders associated with global temperature increase to 1.5°C. Munich Re has alyse, and deepen our knowledge and to share it with our organisation in a dialogue that engenders transjoined the Net-Zero Asset Owner Alliance under the partners, clients and colleagues. We offer comprehenparency and trust. This applies to our global partnerleadership of the United Nations. sive training to all employees which, since 2018, has ships for sustainable development as well as our included a dedicated “Digital School”. In addition, we ­voluntary commitments to standards that support our We also promote the reduction of CO2 generated by make a significant investment in the analytic expertise strategy, such as those embodied by the UN Global our operational activities and, as a result, we have been of our actuaries and underwriters as well as in develCompact (UNGC), the Principles for Sustainable Insurcarbon-neutral since 2015. Overall, since 2009, we oping cyber expert knowledge. We attach equal imporance (PSI), and the Principles for Responsible Investhave reduced our Group-wide carbon footprint by tance to the responsible use of digital technologies and ment (PRI). app. 44% per employee. related services such as big data analysis, Internet of Things (IoT) and Artificial Intelligence (AI), along with We believe we can make the biggest difference by Growing risk awareness is a key issue for us, one that the development of standards for evaluating algorithms ­focusing on the key action areas of climate change, risk cuts across every aspect of our core business. We idenand, not least, respecting and promoting data privacy. awareness, and digitalisation. In addition, we are tify emerging risks at an early stage and assess them committed to systematically integrating environmental, from all possible angles. In addition, we take every opMunich Re is more than ready and able to meet its corsocial and governance (ESG) criteria into every area portunity to enhance the risk awareness of our partners porate responsibilities. We do so both at Group level of our organisation’s influence, where relevant and in both the private and public sectors in order to make and at individual employee level, with over 39,600 staff practically applicable. them more prepared and resilient in the face of disasassuming a wide variety of different roles. This Corters. The above approach is particularly valuable in porate Responsibility Report outlines how we live up One of the greatest challenges facing humanity is cliregions most at risk of suffering from disasters. Our job to our values and commitments. mate change. As members of the (re)insurance industry is to develop solutions that close the protection gap. we are particularly sensitive to the consequences of This enables the creation of innovative risk transfer I wish you an enjoyable read. Best regards, climate change because it directly impacts our business. solutions that strengthen resilience, mitigate the impact This has made us dedicated experts of the topic and of humanitarian disasters, and facilitate sustainable has given us a solid understanding of just how urgently economic growth in the countries concerned. Joachim Wenning Munich Re _ CR-Report 2019 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 5 Portrait Reinsurance offers innovative ­solutions for complex risks of Munich Re With premium income of € 33.8 bn from reinsurance > GRI 102-1, 102-2, 102-3, 102-4, 102-5, 102-6, 102-7, 102-9 alone, Munich Re is one of the world’s leading reinsurers. We offer a full range of products, from traditional reinsurance to innovative solutions for risk assumptions. Risk management is our strength Especially when clients require solutions for complex risks, Munich Re is a much sought-after business Munich Reinsurance Company (or Munich Re) is a partner. The unique global and local knowledge of our stock corporation with its registered office in Munich, about 12,000 staff in reinsurance is one of our most Germany. Our business model is based on the combinaimportant resources for ensuring the success of the tion of primary insurance and reinsurance under one roof. Group. Our client service regularly receives top ratings. €2.7bn Munich Re Group profit 2019 Primary insurance under the ERGO brand Investments Munich Re Group bundles most of its primary insurance We take on risks worldwide of every type and ­complexity. Munich Re stands for exceptional solution-­ ­activities in the ERGO Group, and also in the services MEAG Munich Ergo AssetManagement GmbH based expertise, consistent risk management and offered by DAS, DKV, ERGO Direkt and ERV. Worldwide, ­manages Munich Re’s investments worldwide and offers ­financial stability. We attach great importance to mainthe ERGO Group is represented in over 30 countries its expertise to private and institutional investors. taining close and trusting relations with our clients. and concentrates on Europe and Asia. ERGO offers a MEAG handles all main asset classes. This includes In the 2019 financial year, the Group achieved a profit comprehensive range of insurance and pension pro­ interest-bearing securities, equities, real estate, reof € 2.7bn on premium income of € 51.5bn. It operates vision products and services. ERGO Versicherung AG newable energies, and infrastructure. €228.8bn in all lines of insurance and, with more than 39,600 is one of Germany’s largest providers of property and employees, is represented on every continent and in legal protection insurance. As a specialist in capital over 100 countries. market-oriented insurance, ERGO Vorsorge Lebensversicherung AG is shaping change in the area of ­private provision and biometric risk products. Some assets managed by MEAG for Munich Re Group 39,000 people work for the Group, either as salaried employees or as full-time self-employed sales repreAs at 31 December 2019, total investments (excluding sentatives. In 2019, ERGO posted premium income insurance-related investments) increased compared of € 17.6bn. with the 2018 figure, with the carrying amount rising to € 228.8bn (216.9bn) and the market value to € 247.3bn (231.9bn). The volume of assets managed for third parties amounts to € 38.2bn (15.5bn). 01_Corporate governance Munich Re _ CR-Report 2019 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 7 Corporate and abilities and sharing knowledge with our stakeholders. Our risk expertise thus allows us to develop Our risk expertise, sustainable solutions and actions as a responsible employer make a particular contribution ­governance new perspectives and sustainable solutions. to the achievement of the following seven UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs): The strategic focus is on four fields of action: – We proactively consider environmental, social and Creating value governance (ESG) aspects along the entire value chain in our core business activities. through global responsibility > GRI 102-11, 102-16 – As an employer, we attach the greatest importance to treating our staff in a responsible and respectful Munich Re adopts a forward-looking, prudent and way. We create attractive framework conditions to ­responsible approach to handling risks. For over promote their personal and professional development. 135 years, Munich Re has created long-term value by assuming a diverse range of risks around the world. – We practice active environmental management at We are convinced that this business concept will our sites and are carbon-neutral Group-wide. The UN Sustainable ­continue to be successful in the future through susDevelopment Goals consist tainable action. Responsible corporate governance – Stemming from our sense of social responsibility, of 17 interrelated goals aiming to that reconciles economic, environmental and social we support a large number of initiatives and projects achieve a more sustainable requirements forms the basis of this approach. In that are close to our core business and promote future by 2030. this context, we rely on dialogue with our stakeholders social cohesion. and the establishment of global partnerships for ­sustainable development. Voluntary commitments, such as the UN Global Compact (UNGC), the Principles for Responsible The following are the cornerstones of Investment (PRI) and the Principles for Sustainable our corporate responsibility (CR) strategy: Insurance (PSI) of the UNEP FI represent a key ele– Adopting a shared-value approach ment of our CR strategy. Our recognition of these – Focusing on four fields of action guidelines and our membership of the initiatives – Meeting voluntary commitments mentioned above serve as testimony of our dedica– Achieving our sustainability targets tion to corporate responsibility. You will find an – Engaging in dialogue with our stakeholders overview of Munich Re’s voluntary commitments at the beginning of our report. Our shared-value approach aims to achieve added value for society as well as for our Group. We address social challenges, making the best use of our strengths Munich Re _ CR-Report 2019 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 8 Targets and measures anchored in a roadmap Topic Target and measure Progress in 2019 Identifying and assessing human rights – Comprehensive analysis of our policies, We work continuously to refine and implement our corporate responsibilities, risks and impacts governance and monitoring processes concerning human rights issues in the as a result of which we have set ourselves the following targets. Our goal is to value chain achieve these within a clearly defined time frame through application of Core business Sustainability in insurance and investment: – New underwriting guideline: No insurance ­specific measures. The focus of our corporate Refinement of Munich Re’s Group-wide cover for the extraction of oil sands and ­responsibility is on the assumption ­climate strategy related infrastructure on a single risk basis and diversification of risks in – Divestment and no new investments in Topic Target and measure Progress in 2019 ­primary insurance and reinsurance, securities of companies that generate more and also in investment. than 10% of their earnings from oil sand Sustainable corporate Continuous review of our corporate In the reporting year 2019 With regard to sustainability, our extraction ­governance ­g overnance on the basis of – No material risks were identified in the activities focus on the identified Prerequisite for sustainable legal ­c ompliance, developments, sections entitled “Fighting corruption material topics: Sustainability in insurance: Advising and – Continuous, ongoing process: In 2019 ­business practice is to ensure a best practices and bribery” – Climate change supporting underwriters on the integration 27% of the cases submitted to the RRC fair and trusting relationship with – Our compliance reporting recorded no – Digitalisation of ESG criteria – assistance with binding were accepted, conditions were attached our stakeholders. By meeting breaches of anti-corruption legislation or – Risk awareness decisions within 48 hours on accepting or for approx. 33% and accepted, high ethical and social standards, corresponding official proceedings, rejecting potential reputational risks r­ eferred and 40% of applications were declined we avoid conflict situations and ­anywhere in the world to the Reputational Risk Committee (RRC) protect the reputation of the – No material data protection event defined ­Company and the Group in the Solvency II Group Compliance Sustainability in investment: Advancing the – Further integration of MSCI ESG ­Policy occurred anywhere in our Group, systematic integration of ESG criteria into ­research in the investment process for nor were any material proceedings for asset management ­liquid assets; revision of our Responsible breach of data protection rules initiated Investment Guideline (RIG) – In 2019, our sustainability ratio for all Risk awareness and prevention – In response to the growing security forms of investment was >80% ­demands and risks of the digital world, on 1 July 2019, the position of Group Sustainability in investment: Expansion of – In 2019, invested capital (equity and debt) Chief Information Security Officer (Group climate-friendly investment in infrastructure in renewable energies was approximately CISO) was created in the Integrated projects such as solar parks and wind farms. €1.6bn Risk Management Division Long-term objective: Expansion to € 2.8 bn – Investment in green bonds amounted to approximately €1.3bn Update of the materiality analysis – Sustainability topics identified in 2018 are – Installations generated approximately still valid with regard to their materiality 2.8 million megawatt hours of green to stakeholder and business relevance electricity, supplying power to around and materiality for Munich Re 700,000 households, thereby avoiding some 800,000 tonnes of CO2 equivalents Meeting our voluntary commitments with – Compliance with UNGC criteria was the design of the sustainable procurement ­anchored in approx. 80% of our framework Climate Change: support of the – Commitment to achieve a GHG-neutral process agreements in reinsurance business Paris Agreement objective to limit the global investment portfolio by 2050. In order Target for 2019: Further integration of temperature increase to well below 2 °C to drive implementation of this strategic human rights considerations into the proobjective, Munich Re joined the UN-­ curement processes and supply chain convened “Net-Zero Asset Owner Alliance” (AOA) in January 2020 Staff training on corporate governance – In 2019, mandatory new tutorials in ­issues ­reinsurance on the Code of Conduct and Digitalisation: Development of a –U  nder the guiding principle of “Responsible how to avoid corruption strategy on the ethical aspects of Artificial Intelligence”, Munich Re is – A new online compliance training Artificial Intelligence (AI) ­currently implementing a strategy based ­programme was introduced at ERGO in on the five “ethics guidelines for trustworthy 2019, which covers all aspects of the AI” drawn up by an expert group at the Code of Conduct and is mandatory for EU Commission all staff in Germany. – All Board members and other executive staff at ERGO in Germany must attend a mandatory classroom seminar on compliance, which builds on the online programme – Respective training measures have also been introduced at the various ERGO ­offices abroad Munich Re _ CR-Report 2019 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 9 Topic Target and measure Progress in 2019 Topic Target and measure Progress in 2019 Staff Promotion of diversity as a strategic – Proportion of women in management Environmental and climate Implementation of the environmental – Carbon savings target of 35% exceeded; Highly qualified and top-performing ­success factor for Munich Re Group ­positions at Munich Re Group in Germany ­protection at our locations and climate protection strategy 2020 with 44% reduction in carbon emissions in 2019 managers and staff are the increased to 26.2% (from 25.8% in 2018); As a large organisation with more the following targets: – Group-wide approx. 90% of required cornerstones of our business Increase in the proportion of women in Proportion worldwide 30.1% (from 31.6% than 39,600 employees, we have – 35% reduction in carbon emissions by electricity procured from renewable energy success management positions in Germany in 2018) a responsibility for environmental 2020 (base year 2009) sources to at least 25% by 2020 protection and have involved our– Maintain carbon neutrality across the – Since 2015, all the operational activities selves in areas that we can influence Group of Munich Re Group have been Targeted, needs-based training for all staff, – Digital School and data-analytics in tangible and positive ways – Group-wide verification of environmental carbon-neutral; particularly on the subject of digitalisation curriculum offer staff in the reinsurance data, certification of selected units’ – Annual Group-wide external verification group a range of opportunities to ­environmental and energy management of environmental data; 40% of staff improve their digital qualifications systems, and employed at ISO 14001-certified locations – 13,000 accesses (2018: 5,000) to the – 100% renewable energy for the Group (2019) Digital School in 2019 by 2020 – MR Munich, ERGO Germany and MEAG – Special training programme established – Target for 2019: Focus on measures offering a climate friendly menu at each in the reinsurance division for specialists to sensitise our staff to environmentally German location in the field of cyber security (Cyber friendly behaviour Expert Pool). Seven cyber experts trained as underwriters (11 in 2018) Society Continuation of Munich Re’s and ERGO’s Cooperation with Climate-KIC: – Group-wide about 200 employees have As a responsible business, we are Group-wide project “Tackling Climate – in 2018/19, nine start-ups were accepted concluded data analytics curriculum committed to public welfare and Change Together” – in collaboration with for the programme and funded for (Black Belt training) cohesion within our society. We Climate-KIC (2017–2019) ­between 6 and 12 months promote projects that allow us to – Munich Re and ERGO sponsored Identification and development of staff – Development programmes “Group Manageboth contribute and expand on our Climathons (climate protection hackathons) with leadership potential ment Platform” for top management in risk expertise. In this way, we can in four cities in 2019: Munich, Sydney, the Group, “Hydrogen” in the reinsurance increase the effectiveness of Vilnius and Tallinn group, and “MEAG Young Managers” ­individual initiatives and motivate at MEAG our employees to take part Rapid disaster relief for people in need – Munich Re set up a formal partnership – At ERGO, a new global talent programme ­after catastrophes with Save the Children in 2019 was launched in spring 2019, focusing on innovation and leadership in the digital world – International graduate trainee programmes for Group (EXPLORE) and for reinsurance – In the reinsurance at the Munich location, we were able to fill approximately 84% of management positions in 2019 from our own ranks Revamping our global performance – As of 1 January 2020, a profit-sharing ­management and remuneration system ­approach will be applied worldwide ­instead of the current system of individual variable compensation. The only relevant KPI for all staff bonuses will be Munich Re’s IFRS result – The current annual performance appraisal sessions will be replaced with “Continuous Conversations” about commitment, ­feedback and development Munich Re _ CR-Report 2019 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 10 Important motivation arising from stake­ Shareholders, analysts and investors: holder dialogue Professional communication with players in the financial > GRI 102-40; 102-42; 102-43 markets features regular dialogue and proactive provision of information by Munich Re. We provide key, Munich Re has always valued an open and ongoing detailed information on the general opportunities dialogue with its stakeholders. This has enabled us to and risks attached to our business through frequent identify the topics that are material for us now and in personal investor calls and at (SRI) roadshows – in the future, from our partners’ perspectives. We analyse addition to scheduled investor and analyst events. We the outcomes of our stakeholder dialogue at regular also specifically inform these groups about our sus­intervals and incorporate them into our CR strategy. tainability activities and industry trends. Clients: Politics, NGOs, interest groups: We serve our clients in all fields of business as a reliable We are in close contact with interest groups, NGOs, and solution-oriented business partner. To this end, UN institutions and public authorities at both the we regularly evaluate their satisfaction with our services ­national and international level. In addition, we are an by employing analyses and surveys – tailored to the active member of many insurance industry initiatives different client structures in insurance and reinsurance. and associations. Our client managers in reinsurance also regularly »Our investors expect Munich Re ­interact with clients on ­potential needs, trends and Society and science: challenges, at trade fairs, events and client training Our experts engage in ongoing dialogue with scientists, to take sustainability aspects into seminars. In addition, we maintain contact with insurassociations and organisations around the world, and ance customers via the ERGO Customer Workshop. are involved in a large number of national and interaccount in our business model and Employees: national research and development projects. These include the Global Earthquake Model (GEM), German to report on our corporate respon­ We engage in continuous interaction with our employees worldwide. And we encourage a culture of feedResearch Center for Artificial Intelligence (DFKI), the German Data Science Society and the Global Climate sibility activities. With this in mind, back and transparent communication across a wide range of platforms, such as our intranet, Yammer Forum (GCF). We seek exchange with wider society, e.g. via public dialogue forums and panel discussions. these topics are an important part and other dialogue forums. Events such as town hall of our stakeholder dialogue.« meetings, strategy talks with members of the Board of Management and management conferences promote _Christian Becker-Hussong, Head of Investor Relations exchange across all levels of management. Munich Re _ CR-Report 2019 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 11 Key topics identified > GRI 102-44; 102-46; 102-47; 102-49 MATERIALITY MATRIX We select the topics that are most material to the Munich Re CR strategy. And we then assess these topics in terms of three different dimensions: high Climate change – The business perspective; Digital transformation – The stakeholder perspective; – The impact of our business activities on the three Corporate governance sustainability dimensions of environment, society Energy transformation and economy. Diversity Customer satisfaction Human rights In 2018, we reviewed and reassessed topics in terms of their materiality for Munich Re. After considering ESG criteria in business Risk awareness Stakeholder relevance Data protection/Cyber topics from the previous materiality analysis, voluntary Corruption commitments, stakeholder dialogue outcomes, external Societal engagement Healthcare standards such as SDGs, GRI, PRI, PSI, industry trends medium Training/Talent management and interviews with internal experts from all relevant Environmental Resilient cities divisions and corporate functions, the results were management validated by the Sustainability unit and summarised Sustainable investments Food security in a final assessment. Sustainable products/services Global partnerships The materiality matrix on the right shows the topics for sustainable development that are material for us. No changes were made in 2019. Sustainable procurement Climate change, digital transformation, as well as risk awareness and prevention are our high priority topics. Along with data protection, cyber security and energy transition they belong to the category with the highest level of materiality. These top topics are closely related to our core business. An additional strategic focus low medium high is put on healthcare, client satisfaction, sustainable Business relevance investment, training and talent development. Importance of economic, environmental and social impacts: low medium high Munich Re _ CR-Report 2019 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 12 Group-wide management of CR topics High compliance standards maintain The Code of Conduct obliges staff to act reliably, re> GRI 103; 102-18 integrity sponsibly, transparently, and with integrity. They must disclose any conflicts of interest to allow these to be > GRI 103 Munich Re has clearly regulated organisational accountprofessionally and fairly resolved. Staff may not accept ability for corporate responsibility aspects. For example, or offer financial incentives. Our managers bear a the responsibility for developing and implementing Code of Conduct: Commitment to compliant particular responsibility for ensuring compliance with the Group-wide CR strategy lies with the Central Diconduct our legal standards, embodying our core values, and vision Economics, Sustainability and Public Affairs > GRI 102-16 thereby creating a recognisable compliance culture. (ESP), which reports directly to the Chairman of the Board of Management. Fundamental strategic deciResponsible corporate governance is only possible on The Code of Conduct also covers money laundering sions on CR topics are taken by the Board of Managethe basis of impeccable ethical and legal conduct. aspects. The companies affected by the German Money ment, or by one of its committees, which include the We therefore combat any kind of corruption, respect Laundering Act have taken appropriate organisational Strategy Committee, Group Investment Committee, human rights, and ensure that our strict compliance precautions and appointed money laundering officers and Group Risk Committee. The Chief Investment standards are met along the entire value chain. To and deputies. The ERGO and MEAG money launder­Officer of Munich Re is responsible for corporate ­ensure compliant conduct, we have created Group-wide ing guidelines also regulate fundamental requirements responsibility in investment. guidelines and minimum compliance requirements. to prevent money laundering and the financing of Their implementation is checked and ensured with the ­terrorism. The code of conduct and accompanying Once a year, the Supervisory Board is informed about help of appropriate information and documentation guidelines contain direction on the responsible hand­ material sustainability topics on the basis of the systems. ling of invitations and gifts, donations and sponsorcombined non-financial statement. ships as well as on dealing with public officials. SoOur Code of Conduct forms the basis for our responcalled facilitation payments are explicitly forbidden. The Group Corporate Responsibility Committee (GCRC) sible conduct, along with additional commitments, is responsible for managing business-sensitive topics. and sets out our understanding of the relevant values. In 2013, ERGO was one of the first companies to sign The committee comprises representatives from the The rules it contains are binding on all subsidiaries the Code of Conduct for the Sale of Insurance Products, insurance and reinsurance fields of business, the Susand staff of Munich Re Group and, together with other issued by the German Insurance Association (GDV). tainability unit and other relevant Group functions. policies, guidelines and work instructions, set the The code requires measures to prohibit corruption and ­limits of our activities. All staff are obliged to familiarise the offering or acceptance of bribes. External auditors themselves with the contents of the Code of Conduct. have regularly confirmed, most recently in 2017, that At regular intervals, employees must demonstrate their such measures have been implemented effectively knowledge of the Code of Conduct by undertaking at ERGO. In addition, ERGO has adopted its own Code a mandatory self-test. A new learning programme for of Conduct for its independent sales force. this was drawn up in 2018. The Code of Conduct is available in English, German and Spanish. Online content: More about our Code of Conduct Munich Re _ CR-Report 2019 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 13 Good corporate governance creates trust implementation of early warning, risk control, consult> GRI 102-11; 102-16; 102-18 ing and supervision functions. The CMS comprises Responsible and sustainable management at Munich Re seven elements: Culture, risk management, organisais ensured by means of corporate governance, comtion and processes, consulting, communication and pliance systems, anti-fraud management and sustaintraining, reporting, monitoring and control, as well as able risk management. As a global organisation, we are Munich Re’s corporate governance rated documentation. subject to a large number of national and international “Outstanding”: legal systems, standards and corporate governance Online content: More about CMS regulations. Within Munich Re, our Code of Conduct The German Association for Financial Analysis obligates the management and staff to behave in a and Asset Management (DVFA) has just Munich Re Group has a Group-wide system for reway that is ethically and legally beyond reproach. published its new “DVFA Scorecard for Corpoporting violations of rules and regulations. This system rate Governance”. Munich Re was ranked second enables the Group Chief Compliance Officer to At the same time, corporate and Board of Management among all DAX 30 companies, receiving the promptly report to the Board of Management. Staff objectives that are aligned with financial and sustain­ ­rating “Outstanding” for its corporate governance. members can report infringements and violations to ability considerations ensure that business decisions Professional investors are increasingly taking Group Compliance, their direct supervisor, or to Group are always made on the basis of long-term meaningcorporate governance performance into account Audit. In addition, all staff and external whistleblowers fulness and value preservation. in their investment decisions. can contact an external, independent ombudsman, or make use of the whistleblowing portal. For us, good corporate governance means the Board of Management and Supervisory Board are working Violations can also be reported anonymously. efficiently together, a spirit of trusting cooperation existing between the two bodies and with the staff, and Compliance ensures integrity in all actions Zero tolerance of corruption and white-collar an effective organisational structure. These help to crime secure the confidence of investors, clients, employees Compliance with applicable laws and internal rules and the general public in our corporate activities. and principles is binding for all Munich Re Group Munich Re resolutely counters the risk of white-collar staff (zero-tolerance limit). To ensure compliant and crime and bribery with an effective system for comOnline content: More about our Supervisory Board standardized conduct, we have created Group-wide batting fraudulent activities. Minimum standards for the guidelines, minimum compliance requirements and prevention and detection of non-compliant behavior suitable information and documentation systems apply, for example, our Code of Conduct at Munich Re as measures for prevention and monitoring. We have dictates an appropriate separation of functions, assigned responsibility for this to the Group Com­ ­compliance with the four-eyes principle when signing pliance and Legal unit. Munich Re has established a contracts and when payments are made. These Group-wide Compliance Management System (CMS), ­measures include explicit specifications for employee which is a methodical framework for the structured conduct when handling transactions. Munich Re _ CR-Report 2019 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 14 In accordance with the “know-your-customer” principle For the 2019 reporting year, worldwide, there were Meeting data-protection and information laid down in the Reinsurance Industry Guidelines no reported violations or proceedings related to sus­security requirements for combating economic crime, sufficient information pected corruption. > GRI 103 about a business partner, their background and the purpose and admissibility of the intended business Munich Re has to manage an ever-increasing amount must be available before a transaction. In addition, Training and advice on compliance topics of information and data. It is essential for us to protect when selecting direct business partners, care must be > GRI 205-2 the personal data of our staff members and clients, taken to ensure that they comply with all relevant guard our business and sales partners’ corporate laws and regulations and behave responsibly. The We offer a wide range of advice, communication ­information, and our own trade secrets, if we are to be “know-your-customer” principle also makes provision and training for staff in connection with the topic treated as a competent and trusted partner. For this for a transparent and documented selection process of compliance, all tailored to each particular target reason, Munich Re has implemented data-protection for service providers and suppliers, the conduct of due group. These are intended to enhance sensitivity management systems in each of its fields of business. diligence with business partners who act on behalf to compliance topics, strengthen the compliance Each system takes into account the particularities of of Munich Re, and the use of anti-corruption clauses in culture within Munich Re Group and create greater the respective field, and includes rules, processes and all contracts that exceed the value of €1 m. At ERGO, security in the handling of risks. There are regular measures to systematically monitor and control how an anti-corruption agreement/anti-corruption clause anti-corruption training courses for staff who have personal data is handled. The goal is to ensure a high must be concluded with the supplier or service provider direct contact with clients and business partners. standard of data protection across the Group, and regardless of the order value. Our governance training events for directors and to avoid fines. Audited data protection controls are officers improve their understanding of compliance conducted on a regular basis. Specially trained staff members conduct appropriate and strengthen cooperation with the governance investigations if there is a concrete suspicion of functions in the Group. For Munich Re Group, the Code of Conduct and various fraudulent activity. Depending on the individual case, business-field specific standards on data protection and if a violation is proven, action is taken based on labour, The following topic areas are compulsory for information security contain binding regulations for all criminal and/or civil law. employees of Munich Re Group: employees. For Group companies whose registered office is within the EU/EEA, these relate primarily to the EU In principle, Munich Re employees must inform their – Anti-corruption measures General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). Based on line manager or responsible internal bodies if they are – Data protection (GDPR) this, Munich Re, ERGO and MEAG have each issued a aware of any violation of anti-corruption regulations. – Code of Conduct data protection policy for their ­activities in the EU/EEA The company’s ombudsman can also be consulted, or in order to ensure a binding level of data protection in an electronic whistleblowing portal can be used to Further trainings for the Reinsurance Group are their respective business areas. For internal data ex­report the observed violation. also conducted, for example, on insider trading law. change with companies of the Reinsurance Group based outside the EU/EEA, Binding Corporate Rules Through our approach, we ensure that Munich Re also guarantee an adequate level of data protection at all meets legal regulations in other countries where the locations worldwide. The Binding Corporate Rules were Group is obliged to comply with regulations as a result updated in spring 2019, the process for Europe-wide of its international activities. These include, for example, approval by the data protection supervisory authorities the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) in the USA, was still ongoing at the end of the year. The existing and the Bribery Act in the United Kingdom. Binding Corporate Rules will remain valid until this approval process is completed. Munich Re _ CR-Report 2019 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 15 The Group-wide guideline on Information Security and Business Continuity Management – the ISM & BCM Policy sets binding targets, minimum requirements, responsibilities, processes and reporting procedures for the protection of information and for ensuring business continuity. Additionally, it takes into account the high degree of interdependencies between the two risk management disciplines – Information Security Management and Business Continuity Management. It also helps to ensure that Information Security and Business Continuity fulfil contractual obligations to clients as well as reporting requirements in a constantly changing environment and in times of crises. The guiding principle of the ISM & BCM Policy is to foster collaboration and permanent exchange between business and central unit stakeholders, information technology, risk management and data protection officers and is available for each employee. Munich Reinsurance Company’s Data Protection ­Officer acts as Group Data Protection Officer for the companies in the reinsurance field of business within the EU/EEA. The only exception are our UK subsidiaries, which, in light of Brexit, have already appointed a data protection officer of their own. Among other tasks, the Group Data Protection Officer aims to ensure uniform compliance with the guidelines across the EU/EEA, In light of its accountability, Munich Re uses an in-house All staff members of Munich Re Group are bound to monitors the legality of IT-supported data processing, IT tool to ensure compliance with data protection rules: secrecy in all company matters, as long as it cannot advises the respective companies on their duties under The Compliance Web is designed to use a defined be assumed that the information is already public. All the applicable rules, answers staff questions about process to automatically submit every IT-supported information is for internal use only and must be handled data protection, and acts as a first point of contact in processing of personal data directly to IT Security and confidentially, unless it is expressly intended for communications with the supervisory authorities. He or the Data Protection Officer, among others. This allows ­external publication and has been classified as such. she reports at least once a year to Munich Reinsurance every new or amended processing task to be docuMunich Re has implemented Group-wide organisational Company’s Board of Management about material data mented, checked for compliance with the legal norms, processes and technical security measures to protect protection issues and improvements to the data proand regularly monitored. The tool also allows us to its confidential information. In addition, we offer regular tection management system. ERGO and MEAG have identify and track, with the help of a privacy impact training sessions and other measures to heighten each appointed their own Data Protection Officers, who assessment (PIA), processes that entail a high risk awareness. These help to ensure that our confidential have corresponding responsibilities and obligations. to a person’s rights or freedoms. data is suitably protected against unautho­rized access, Munich Re _ CR-Report 2019 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 16 as well as against malicious use, manipulation or loss. We have established appropriate procurement Any supplementary, company specific requirements principles for working with our suppliers. Based on and internal rules must be observed. A clear escalation the principles of the UN Global Compact, our proprocess is in place, which employees can follow in curement principles help protect human rights, abolish the event that they notice something suspicious. forced labour and child labour, uphold both the freedom of association and the right to collective bargainSince 2018, all staff at Munich Reinsurance Company ing. Furthermore, they combat corruption and enforce and ERGO have been trained on a regular basis using environmental protection. Accordingly – and as a an e-learning course to ensure that they handle ­requirement for cooperation – Munich Re expects its ­personal data carefully and in compliance with the business partners to likewise commit to those of provisions of the GDPR. In addition, mandatory classour principles that explicitly cover human rights and room seminars have been introduced, with content labour standards. targeted at the respective divisions and e-learning is mandatory for new employees as part of their induction. Procurement departments at Munich Re (primary All staff at MEAG are required to undergo classroom ­insurance and reinsurance) are responsible to include training on data protection and information security relevant corporate responsibility clauses in supplier once a year. agreements. We obligate our suppliers to recognize the UN Global Compact. In 2019, compliance with In 2019, no material data protection event, as defined UNGC criteria was anchored in approximately 78 % of in the Solvency II Group Compliance Policy, occurred our framework agreements. Should an infringement national level. We consider declaring profits earned in anywhere in our Group worldwide, nor were any occur during the term of contract with one of our supour business for tax in accordance with the law to be ­material proceedings instituted for breaches of data pliers, we will actively seek dialogue with our cona fundamental legal and social duty. protection rules. Additional information can be found tracting parties in an effort to remedy any deviations in our Privacy Statement. from our guidelines. If this does not prove successful, Compliance with applicable laws and internal rules Munich Re reserves the right to extraordinary terminaand principles is binding for all employees of Munich Re. Sustainable focus for procurement tion for good cause. Compliance in general and tax compliance in particular > GRI 412-3 are key components in all of our processes. Munich Re Our responsible corporate governance extends far Online content: More about our procurement aims to be a law-abiding, transparent and responsible ­beyond our core business, and also influences all our taxpayer. For that reason, we give absolute priority to procurement activities. As a global organisation, Transparency and legal conformity in all meeting all of the tax obligations to which Munich Re ­Munich Re procures many different goods and services tax matters is subject nationally and internationally. throughout the world. The benchmark in our pro­ curement decisions is best total value in terms of the Munich Re’s policy is to be a responsible company The Board of Management has approved a policy on tax criteria quality, time and cost. Environmental and and taxpayer. Due to the nature of our business, we are compliance that lays down minimum tax compliance ­social aspects and good management practices also subject to a great many taxes, which arise in every standards and describes the fundamental components play a crucial role. country in which we operate. Munich Re adheres to of the tax compliance management system we have applicable tax regulations at both national and interin place. Munich Re _ CR-Report 2019 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 17 The Policy applies directly to Munich Reinsurance Responsible approach to lobbying and services to exploit the benefits of digitalisation. Company and its foreign branches. > GRI 103; 102-13 Further information can be found in the chapter on digitalisation. All companies in the Group are obliged to apply a policy In the interests of our stakeholders, we contribute our locally that has the same, or similar, content. Compliknowledge and expertise to the political decision-­ Global Insurance Capital Standard (ICS): ance with this requirement is checked annually. making process. In doing so, we place the emphasis The creation of a global capital standard for insurance The policy on tax compliance sets out clear rules and on fairness and transparency. companies poses a major challenge for companies and ­responsibilities for tax management throughout the supervisory authorities. The suitability of ICS will be Group. An internal escalations process is in place. We focus on topic areas that affect our Group and our tested over a five-year observation period (2020–2024). Employees can report compliance breaches directly stakeholders, and in which we possess a level of exto the tax department and anonymously to the pertise. With many Munich Re concerns, the corporate Sustainable finance: whistleblowing portal. In Munich, Munich Reinsurance interest matches the general societal interest, for We are engaged in the design of the EU action plan Company has a by a third party certified tax compli­example, in the areas of climate protection and data for sustainable finance by participating in consultations ance management system in place. This builds on security, or with investments in infrastructure. on legislative procedures and in surveys by the a credible tax compliance culture, sets targets and ­supervisory authorities. ­establishes programms as part of a continuous We actively participate in a number of industry organi­improvement process. The key elements of the Group-­ sations, including the German Insurance Association Climate change: wide tax compliance policy can be found in our (GDV), the Geneva Association, the European Insurance We support the resolutions of the Paris Climate ProTax Transparency Report within our download center. Chief Finance Officers (CFO) Forum, the Chief Risk tection Agreement. And we factor climate effects into Officers (CRO) Forum, the Reinsurance Advisory Board our business processes at risk measurement, business Locations outside Germany are chosen primarily on the (RAB) of Insurance Europe, and the Pan-European development and asset management levels. We also basis of business considerations. We are represented ­Insurance Forum (PEIF). The Public Affairs departparticipate in public and private initiatives to develop through subsidiaries or branches in all of the world’s ment in the Central Division Economics, Sustainability and market innovative insurance solutions for climate main insurance hubs – for example in the USA, the and Public Affairs is responsible for lobbying governrisks. UK, Switzerland and Singapore. Tax rates at the foreign ments, national and supranational authorities, insurance locations are mostly lower than in Germany. ­associations and other organisations on behalf of Regulation of systemic risks: Structures which we create have adequate economic ­Munich Re Group. Traditional reand primary insurance activities are substance. We do not enter into any transactions not systemically relevant. At no time has Munich Re with the sole purpose to obtain a tax advantage. In any In 2019, our main areas of focus were the following been identified as a global, systemically important event, there is full transparency both locally and in topics and activities: ­insurer (G-SII). A holistic approach to assessing and Germany vis-à-vis regulators and tax authorities, and mitigating systemic risks is currently being tested, we always act in conformity with all applicable laws. Digitalisation: ­focusing on systemically relevant activities and proTransactions with Group companies are at arm’s length We support the digital agenda of the German Federal viding a comprehensive integration of macroprudential in accordance with OECD requirements. Government and the European Commission. Our focus aspects into the regulatory framework. is on the creation of standardised framework condiOur tax expenditure by region can be found in the tions and legal security in Europe. A further objective key figures section. is to facilitate the development of innovative products Munich Re _ CR-Report 2019 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 18 Cyber risk: The cost impact of cyber attacks on an economy can rival those of natural disasters. Munich Re is active in the field of services that mitigate cyber risks and provide financial protection following a cyber incident. Underwriting cyber risks in the insurance sector is also gaining increased attention from us. We monitor developments in this sector closely and will continue to contribute to the appropriate handling of associated opportunities and risks. Munich Re places particular importance on transparency in all lobbying activities. Next to the information in the CR Report, we provide details to the transparency register of the European Parliament and the European Commission on focal points, memberships and the cost of our lobbying activities. Further information can be found in the key figures section. Political involvement > GRI 415-1 Copyright © Thomas Trutschel/ Munich Re Group supports the democratic political process and, to this end, donates to the following ­German political parties: Bündnis90/Die Grünen, photothek.net) CDU, CSU, FDP and SPD. These parties each receive an identical donation with no conditions attached. Munich Re and ERGO each pay for one half of the expenditure. The donations are transferred exclusively Independent journalism to the parties’ federal headquarters. In addition to the issued by the German Public Relations Association above donations, membership fees are paid to organisaMunich Re respects the principle of journalistic inde(DPRG) and the statutes of the German Council for tions closely affiliated with the parties. Further inforpendence and favours a strict separation between Public Relations (DRPR). mation can be found in the key figures section. journalism and public relations work. We therefore comply with the guideline on dealing with journalists Online content: more about independent journalism Munich Re _ CR-Report 2019 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 19 Respecting human rights at all times Commitments Identifying and assessing human rights risks in all places and impact > GRI 102-12; 412-2 In addition to observing the standards specified by the UN Global Compact, PSI, and PRI, Munich Re Group In a systematic evaluation of potential risks, Munich Re is committed to respecting human rights as defined Group defined the following four dimensions as critical At Munich Re Group, our business model is tied to in the following human rights-specific principles: to upholding human rights: employees, procurement, ­responsible, sustainable and forward-looking action our core business of primary insurance, reinsurance, over the long term. We regard the protection of human – UN Guiding Principles on Business and ­ and investment management. For each of these dirights as a particular obligation and strive to do so in Human Rights mensions, we identify, assess and, if necessary, mitigate line with internationally accepted human rights prinpotential risks with regard to the infringement of ciples. It is part and parcel of our approach to corporate – International Bill of Human Rights, human rights. governance, which builds economic, environmental which consists of: and social requirements into our definition of success. We place particular emphasis on core business and The Board of Management has confirmed this – Universal Declaration of Human Rights ­investment because of its potentially high impact. commitment by clearly stating the Munich Re – International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights With this in mind we have specific analysis tools in Group’s declaration of principles on human rights. – International Covenant on Economic, Social and place to monitor it. ­Cultural Rights – ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and As regards our insurance business and investments, Rights at Work we systematically take environmental, social and ­governance (ESG) criteria – including the observance Key components of human rights management of human rights – into account as part of the risk ­assessment and decision making processes. Find more Munich Re Group has committed to observing its duty information in the core business chapter. of care on human rights along the entire value chain, and to respect internationally recognised human rights. In addition to these ESG guidelines, we have created To this end, we have developed a due diligence proa risk mapping tool for human rights. This tool is decess that covers the key components of human rights signed to aid all employees in insurance and investment due diligence: in categorising and evaluating countries and economic sectors as per various indices and human rights topics. – Commitment of the Board of Management We consider the following topics when mapping to respect human rights risks by country: child labour and forced labour; dis– Identifying and assessing human rights risks and crimination on the basis of gender, sexuality or religion; impacts corruption; threats to communities; restrictions on – Implementing measures and monitoring people’s liberty or freedom; international and domestic – Reporting and communication conflicts. When we analyse sector risks, we focus – Remedy and grievance mechanism on working conditions, child labour and forced labour, occupational health risks, and the sources of commodities. Munich Re _ CR-Report 2019 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 20 Implementing measures and monitoring ment. These documents place particular emphasis on If we learn of human rights violations in an existing child labour and forced labour in mining, farming, and contractual relationship, we will engage in dialogue For each of the four risk dimensions that we have dealong their respective value chains, as well as the with the responsible stakeholders and seek to put fined – employees, procurement, our core business forced resettlement of indigenous communities as part risk-mitigating measures into practice. and investment management – we have implemented of large infrastructure projects. Human rights risks measures, guidelines, and governance instruments. that threaten our reputation are presented as part of Reporting and communication This enables us to reduce or mitigate risks with regard due diligence to the Reputational Risk Committee to violations of human rights; these approaches also (RRC), which will take a decision and possibly reject We explain in the following documents how Munich Re guide our decision-making in line with conscientious the risky course of action. Group abides by its responsibility for human rights: management practices. our Corporate Responsibility Report, our combined non-­ Investment: financial statement, our annual UN Global Compact Employees: We follow a sustainable approach to investing that reCommunication on Progress (CoP), our annual reports As an employer, we undertake to observe international spects human rights by observing the Principles for on the Principles for Sustainable Insurance (PSI) human rights standards and provide optimum working Responsible Investment (PRI) and our Group-wide Reand the Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI). conditions for our staff. For further information on sponsible Investment Guidelines (RIG). In the interest ­occupational health and safety, promoting diversity, of raising awareness of human rights, all Munich Re In line with the UK Modern Slavery Act Munich Re equal opportunities and labour rights please refer to Group employees worldwide must complete training and relevant subsidiaries issue an annual statement the human resources section of this report. and pass a test on our Code of Conduct every two years. on the ways in which they combat human trafficking This ensures that they know the key compliance rules and forced labour. Procurement: and understand the need to always follow these rules With regard to all our procurement decisions and at work. This training course includes information on Remedy and grievance mechanism ­activities, we always observe the principles of complitopics such as the German General Act on Equal Treatance and we embrace corporate responsibility throughment, reporting of infringements, data protection, and The compliance whistleblowing portal of Munich Re out the value chain. Environmental, social and corruption. Group allows employees, clients, suppliers and other ­governance (ESG) criteria play a pivotal role in our business partners to report potential or factual human procurement of goods and services. Please refer to the Suitable monitoring systems help us examine the rights violations. Whistleblowers can access the portal procurement section of this chapter for more details. ­effectiveness of our measures. We strive to continually by using the internal web or the publicly accessible improve our processes of due diligence and expand Munich Re website. Employees can also report incidents Insurance: our screening of risks; we also regularly raise awareness to their direct managers, the Compliance Officer or A set of underwriting guidelines defines how all underof human rights among our staff and business partners. Group Audit. For more information please refer to writers and client managers are to handle ESG risks the compliance chapter above. in insurance transactions. If we identify human rights If a violation of human rights is reported, or we learn of risks during risk assessment (underwriting), we engage it by any other means, the Munich Re unit responsible with the contract partner to discuss mitigation measfor compliance will look into the violation. An investiures. Binding guidelines or best practice recommendagation is launched, which follows a procedure defined tions were drawn up for topics and industry sectors in an internal set of guidelines. Every potential indeemed sensitive by Munich Re Group; they are applistance of misconduct will be investigated and clarified. cable for reinsurance, primary insurance and invest02_Core business 04_Umwelt Qui blaut qui aut quas dolore nobitati cum exere pliqui dolutate lacimodi oditas eium, qui beatin et et as ullaboritis etur sequidenis ut hillenecus et facerue nobitati cum exere pliqui dolutae nobitati cum exere pliqui dolutaptaque prem debit estium qui. Munich Re _ CR-Report 2019 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 22 A sustainable into our business, we attach special importance to responsible products, services and sustainable investExcerpt from our Code of Conduct ­approach to core ment. Further key topics embraced by our core business include climate change, digitalisation and risk awareAs a Group, we aim to … ness, which impact all our activities. … make a positive contribution to the business ­environment and society with our conduct; We have also set ourselves a series of sustainability … observe ESG principles on sustainable targets. More specifically, our aim is the consistent in­economic development; tegration of ESG criteria into all processes at Munich Re … fund projects and work with partners worldThe focus of our corporate responsibility is on our core in the fields of both insurance and investment. Furtherwide to support solutions to social challenges. business – which involves the assumption and divermore, we are committed to continually refining our sification of risks in primary insurance and reinsurance, climate strategy and to adopting ethical standards As a member of staff, this means that ... as well as investment. We know that we can only ­essential to ensuring we handle artificial intelligence … I consider ESG aspects in my work; achieve long term economic success through responin a responsible manner. Further information on our … I consult the respective bodies when our sible action. That is why the objective of sustainable objectives and the progress achieved in 2019 can be ­reputation is at risk; economic value creation is anchored in the core prinfound in the target table in the corporate governance … my decisions at work actively support our ciples of our corporate strategy. In our core business, section and in the individual topic areas in this section. ­environmental and climate goals. we set out to achieve the greatest possible impact for our Group and for society by taking into account ­environmental, social and governance aspects (ESG). Corporate responsibility in insurance business ESG criteria integrated into processes and In addition, the fact that we have signed the Principles products > GRI 103; 203-1; 203-2 for Sustainable Insurance (PSI) and the Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) highlights our comWe systematically take ESG aspects into account mitment to responsible action, as these two voluntary Our business is the assumption and diversification of in our insurance business. This applies both to our commitments go well beyond what is required by risks in primary insurance and reinsurance. We possess internal underwriting processes and our products law or by supervisory regulations. strong leverage for sustainable action by linking ecoand services. nomic success with added value for society. In insurOur actions are guided by the key topics we have idenance business, we principally achieve this through a Many industries and projects can have a major impact tified for reinsurance, primary insurance, and investstrong client focus, by offering responsible products on the environment and local communities. If adement. Key topics identified as of our 2018 materiality and services, and through the integration of ESG asquate consideration is not given to such consequences, analysis are still valid: In addition to committing to a pects. This is also manifested in our Code of Conduct. the underwriting risk may increase. The systematic strong client focus and the integration of ESG aspects integration of ESG aspects enables us to identify these risks and to minimise them in cooperation with our Munich Re _ CR-Report 2019 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 23 clients. We also make use of collaboration with Transactions involving reputational risks are submitted ­other partners, institutions and non-governmental to the Reputational Risk Committee (RRC) for each ESG aspects for corporate responsibility in organisations (NGOs). field of business. These committees analyse and assess (re)insurance and investment specific reputational issues and ESG risks relating This approach is relevant for our business in three to individual transactions and make recommendations different ways: on accepting or rejecting a particular risk. An assessEnvironment ment by the Sustainability unit is mandatory. In 2019, 1. We can identify ESG-related risks faster, thereby about 27% of the cases submitted to the RRC were – Natural resources and adding an additional dimension to our risk manageapproved with no conditions attached. Roughly 33% ­biodiversity ment. This also helps us avoid any reputational of enquiries were approved with conditions attached, – Pollution risks for the Group. and 40% were declined. In the Internal Risk Report, – Greenhouse gas emissions we regularly detail any significant reputational risks 2. We enhance our business partners’ risk awareness for Munich Re. on sustainability issues. Society Numerous offers were declined by the respective 3.  By uncovering ESG risks, we develop new business business units for ESG or other reasons without being – Political environment and opportunities and coverage concepts, which we submitted to the RRCs. Further information on the public perception then translate into sustainable solutions. approach of the RRC can be found in the combined – Human rights non-financial statement for Munich Re Group. – Working conditions Risk-based management established – Cultural heritage ­Group-wide We report annually on our progress with the integration – Resettlement of people of the PSI principles. – Health and safety of the Strategic decisions on the implementation of ESG ­community ­aspects are generally made in the Board of ManageWe have identified twelve generally valid ESG aspects ment committees. ESG criteria are factored into the that are taken into account in our insurance business remuneration system for the Board of Management, risk assessment and in investment transactions. Governance with regard to both, the annual and medium-term bonuses for members of the Board of Management. –  Responsible and careful More detailed information can be found in our ­planning and assessment Remuneration report. – Compliance – Consultation and The Group Corporate Responsibility Committee (GCRC), transparency directed by the Sustainability unit, was established in 2012 in order to identify sensitive business topics. Munich Re _ CR-Report 2019 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 24 In addition, we have identified seven sensitive topics topics were integrated into an ESG tool, which helps coal sector, Munich Re stopped insuring the construcor sectors. Binding guidelines or best practice recomour underwriters to systematically take ESG aspects tion and operation of new coal-fired power plants or mendations were drawn up for these topics, which into account when performing risk assessments. new coal mines as individual risks in industrialised are applicable for reinsurance, primary insurance and countries, as well as in the bulk of emerging markets. investment. Questionnaires specially tailored to the The following exclusions apply for our insurance There may be a small number of exceptions in countries business: where a substantial portion of the population (more There is a Group-wide policy applicable for banned than 10%) has no access to electricity. These are reweapons, stipulating that Munich Re does not insure viewed on a case-by-case basis. In 2019 we disconSensitive issues: or invest in companies that manufacture cluster tinued the ­insurance and reinsurance of individual Munich Re positions and measures bombs or land mines, or in companies that trade in risks of oil sands mining projects and related infrathem or transport them. This applies where such structure. You can find more detailed information on transactions or operations are known. Regarding the this in the Climate Change section. Banned weapons: Policy on cluster munitions and land mines Coal: Policy on coal business underwriting and investments Arctic drilling: Guidelines, risks to be referred to Arctic Drilling Panel Oil sands: Policy on oil sands business underwriting and investments Fracking: Position paper including specific questions on ESG aspects Mining: Position paper including specific questions on ESG aspects Investments in farmland: Mandatory ESG check for investments Munich Re _ CR-Report 2019 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 25 Commitment to the PSI initiative on In the field of reinsurance, we have also developed a Establishing an international standard for the ESG integration network of ESG coordinators in the business units. Staff safer management of tailings storage facilities – members function as multipliers, actively sharing their Munich Re expert takes part in the Global Munich Re actively contributed to a PSI initiative which knowledge of ESG integration within their own deTailings Review in February 2019 presented for the first time a partment, for risk assessment, in client discussions ­compilation of best practice examples to assess susand in exchanges with other divisions. After catastrophic failures of tailings dams in Brazil tainability risks in non-life insurance. The proposed within the last 5 years, a review is seeking to imESG standards are the result of several years of colDeveloping marketable solutions from prove the safety management of tailings globally. laboration of leading insurers and key stakeholders ESG risks Munich Re is actively involved in the review proat global level. This highlights a systematic approach cess and continues to promote the establishment that insurers can take for ESG risks. Our aim is to Our core business constantly faces new kinds of risks of an international standard. continually refine the assessment of ESG risks, while and global challenges. We develop innovative solution at the same time incorporating the standards develconcepts for ESG risks, while opening up new business The International Council on Mining and Metals oped by the PSI initiative. opportunities. In keeping with our shared-value ap(ICMM), the United Nations Environment Proproach, we generate benefits for our Group and for gramme (UNEP) and the Principles for Responsible Training courses and networks secure society as a whole. In our materiality analysis, we have Investment (PRI) share a commitment to the adop­competency transfer identified climate change, digitalisation and risk tion of global best practices on tailings storage awareness as focus topics. Here we present a selecfacilities. They have co-convened this Global Tailings The individual business units at Munich Re each have tion of sustainable solutions and activities in connecReview to establish an international standard for responsibility for the business they write, with regard tion with additional topics. the safer management of tailings storage facilities to both underwriting and ESG aspects. We offer that can be applied to all tailings dams wherever ­t argeted training programmes to qualify our staff and Inclusive insurance protects livelihoods they are located and whoever operates them. The develop their competence in relation to ESG aspects. review is supported by an interdisciplinary expert These are tailored to the individual business activities Munich Re and the Munich Re Foundation, along with panel and informed by a multi-stakeholder adviand regions, include training on the practical impleprimary insurers and other institutions and international sory group. As a representative for the insurance mentation of our underwriting guidelines, and provide NGOs, are supporting the development of inclusive inindustry, Günter Becker, Munich Re’s Head of information on current sustainability topics. The trainsurance solutions. These must be adapted to the needs Mining, is taking part in the multi-stakeholder ing courses are intended for managers, underwriters, of low-income groups in emerging and developing ­advisory group and brings his years of industry client managers, business analysts and trainees in the countries. Only then can they protect people from losing expertise to the table. business units. The training formats are also open to their livelihood. all other interested staff members and have become For more information, please visit an integral part of our client seminars. More than 800 For instance, HDFC ERGO in India markets a wide www.globaltailingsreview.org. staff members worldwide have already been sensitised range of microinsurance policies in the rural sector, to ESG aspects in this way. Our aim is to continually including weather-indexed, health, personal accident improve our training formats, for example through the and fire, as well as special coverages for farmers. They establishment of e-learning programmes. strive to provide solutions to customers partnering with entities focused on customers at the bottom of the pyramid by developing innovative distribution Munich Re _ CR-Report 2019 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 26 solutions. The insurance products are easy to understand, focusing on standardisation to generate economies of scale. Two examples: Around 80% of crop losses in the country are weather-related, but less than a quarter of farmers have insurance against this risk. In 2010, on behalf of the Indian government, HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company was the first private insurance company to introduce weather insurance for crop losses. In 2018, HDFC ERGO launched a Group Hospital cash policy in the state of Odisha, India, in partnership with HDFC BANK Sustainable Livelihood Initiative. This policy covers all microfinance loan customers under a very nominal premium (less than 3 euros) which gives them a fixed benefit per day in the event of any hospitalization. In the Financial Year 2018, 160,000 customers were insured, generating a premium income of about 375,000 euros. Following the positive uptake, expansion to 15 Indian states is planned. DKV Seguros in Spain offers further examples of simplified access to insurance solutions on a voluntary basis. For example, even people over the age of 69 can have access to its health insurance products. In addition, the private health insurance Famedic offered by DKV Seguros does not consider factors such as the Europe (2017, 2018) amounted to some €7bn. According as efficient risk management tools. Digitalisation in age and health of its customer groups when pricing to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change agriculture and remote-sensing systems such as premiums, and also offers large discounts for families. (IPCC), the fluctuation in crop yields in most of the ­satellites are paving the way for new insurance soluworld’s regions is likely to increase in the future. At the tions. Our main focus here is to cover peak risks from Insurance against crop losses same time, global demand for agricultural commodities natural disasters. will continue to rise in order to feed an ever-growing No other economic sector is more dependent on favourworld population. Adaptation and mitigation are the As part of a public-private partnership with crop insurers able weather conditions than agriculture and it is not first steps in agricultural risk management. These are and the public sector, Munich Re offers crop-failure just in developing countries that small farmers and complemented by agricultural insurance. Besides insurance solutions for the agricultural sector. their crops face the threat of destruction from weather-­ ­financial reinsurance and traditional reinsurance, an related events. To illustrate this, the losses in agriculincreasing number of alternative risk-transfer products Online content: Find our solutions for the agricultural tural production from two consecutive droughts in are establishing themselves in the agricultural sector sector Munich Re _ CR-Report 2019 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 27 Reducing the financial risks from infectious to the burden of expense or affects the cumulative Humanitarian Impact Bond diseases bonus of any standard health insurance. Alternatively, The International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC), Munich Re has joined forces with the World Bank, the the policyholder may opt for a lump sum amount to with substantial assistance from Capital Partners, World Health Organisation and other financial sector be paid on providing the proof of hospitalisation. ­developed the first Humanitarian Impact Bond (HIB) companies to create the first insurance solution to fight and Munich Re also invested in this initiative. With dangerous epidemics and pandemics in developing Innovative risk transfer solutions the help of the HIB, the ICRC can now fund the operacountries. The Pandemic Emergency Financing Facility tion of rehabilitation centres in Central Africa. De(PEF) creates a mechanism to quickly channel first-­ Munich Re focuses on the development of alternative pending on how successfully these centres operate, relief surge funding to developing countries facing a risk transfer solutions for sustainability challenges while the governments that subsidise the humanitarian major disease outbreak with the potential of developing Capital Partners, a division of Munich Re, specialises ­activities there reimburse the investor for what they into a pandemic. The insurance component of the PEF in alternative risk transfer solutions. Innovative soluhave paid in, along with an additional return. will provide maximum coverage of US$ 425m for an tions are also developed as part of Munich Re’s Public-­ initial period of three years. In the event of an epidemic sector Business Development Initiative. The following or pandemic, it allows funds to be promptly used to examples illustrate these activities: combat and contain an outbreak and the associated financial risks. In 2018, the PEF made its first-ever finanFirst catastrophe bond for the Philippines against cial commitment, approving a grant of US$ 12m to earthquake and tropical cyclone bridge the funding gap for Ebola countermeasures in Munich Re, as part of a syndicate, has supported the the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Munich Re is World Bank (International Bank For Reconstruction pushing for an extension of the mechanism to cover and Development, IBRD) in the structuring and issuance the period after 2020. of a catastrophe bond for the Republic of the Philippines against the natural perils of earthquake and ERGO HDFC launches a cover for vector borne tropical cyclones: This is the first cat bond covering ­diseases an Asian sovereign nation, and the first one to be listed Many infectious diseases such as dengue fever, malaria, on the Singapore Exchange. The Philippines are among chikungunya, Japanese encephalitis and numerous the most disaster-prone countries in the world. The others are being transmitted by mosquitos. They may ILS (Insurance-Linked Securities) transaction comprises be small, but are not to be underestimated. Mosquitoes two tranches with financial protection of up to US$75 can prove to be deadly, putting millions of lives at risk million for losses from earthquakes and US$150 million each year. More than half of the world’s population for losses from tropical ­cyclones for a period of three share their natural habitat with these insects and are years. The risk transfer complements existing disaster regularly exposed to the risk of diseases. HDFC ERGO risk financing mechanisms to strengthen the financial identified the necessity and importance of this proresilience of the country against natural disasters. It tection and provides an innovative insurance product, provides quick ­financing for emergency response and the “Mosquito Disease Protection Policy”. Launched emergency relief in the aftermath of extreme tropical in May 2019 and sold over 10,000 times in the first cyclones and earthquakes. It is hoped that this first-­ month alone, the policy offers coverage for hospitalimover transaction will spur greater use of traditional sation due to any mosquito-borne disease, which adds and non-traditional risk transfer solutions to address the protection gap in South-East Asia. Munich Re _ CR-Report 2019 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 28 Customer satisfaction is key to success We additionally promote direct exchange with our or as a member of the ERGO Customer Advisory > GRI 103; 417-1 ­clients through the ADVANCE programme for high Council, clients can help ERGO with criticisms and potential leadership talents from selected clients. In suggestions, and contribute to the design of its range Maintaining a close and trusting relationship with our 2018, Munich Re gave this – its top-talent programme of services. clients is of crucial importance for the success of our – a new strategic focus, centred on finding solutions insurance business. For that reason, we want to underto future challenges in the insurance industry, and on To make access to products and services as easy as stand our clients’ needs and develop the best solutions the joint development of forward-looking business possible for clients, ERGO continually expands its digital for them in a process of dialogue. ideas. We are proud that the participants rewarded the offerings, for example through its digital subsidiary, programme with an NPS of 100. nexible, or with a range of products that can be purIn reinsurance, we manage this dialogue and service on chased simply, via voice dialogue. the basis of clients’ needs and clients’ income potenIn the field of primary insurance, ERGO demonstrates tial. The process includes an analysis of the markets its strong client focus with clear communication, high Particular emphasis is placed on easy-to-understand and major players, and the implementation of individual quality consulting, transparent and easily accessible products in order to offer clients a high level of transreinsurance solutions for our clients. The client manproducts, along with numerous opportunities to give parency on the services ERGO offers. To this end, with agers are supported by a central sales unit, which feedback. ERGO also offers different dialogue formats the help of external experts, ERGO has developed its ­ensures transparency in relation to the Group-wide in order to obtain personal feedback and new client own comprehensibility standards, and fully revised its product and service landscape. input. As participants in the ERGO Customer Workshop, contract documents and product information. Munich Re conducts regular global surveys of all of its reinsurance clients – the next survey will start in May 2020. It looks at the Net Promoter Score (NPS) and client satisfaction in connection with various aspects of the business relationship. Additionally, we ­introduced a set of questions about the importance of ESG criteria. To supplement the centrally managed survey, the operational units obtain regular feedback from their clients. In order to maintain our lead over the competition, and to allow us to respond proactively to suggested improvements from our clients, we offer a comprehensive training programme for all staff members who have direct client contact. The aim is to develop an understanding of the clients’ strategies and requirements, so that we can work out solutions together. Munich Re _ CR-Report 2019 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 29 To support the Paris Agreement objective to limit the global temperature increase to well below 2 °C, ­Munich Re is expanding its climate strategy with a r­ ecent commitment to a GHG-neutral investment portfolio by 2050. In order to drive implementation of this strategic objective, Munich Re has joined the UN-­convened “Net-Zero Asset Owner Alliance” (AOA) in January 2020. The Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) provide a framework for sustainable action in the field of investment. In order to ensure that we adhere to our sustainable investment approach, we have established a binding Group-wide Responsible Investment Guideline (RIG), which covers all requirements regarding PRI and ESG that concern Munich Re Group investment management, especially on the subject of exclusion criteria for investments. In general, strategic decisions for sustainable investments are made by the Board of Management or one of its committees (Strategy Committee, Group Investment Committee). The Chief Investment Officer (CIO), as a member of the Board of Management, is responsible for the Investment Management of Munich Re Group. The Group Investment Management (GIM) unit is Corporate responsibility in investment Management of our investments is based on responsible for the sustainable investment strategy of > GRI 103; 201-2; 203-1; 203-2 three pillars: the Group, having established a dedicated ESG team. 1. Systematic integration of ESG criteria Munich Re’s investments are largely bundled under the Because our business model as an insurer has a long2. Renewable energy technologies umbrella of MEAG, our internal asset management arm. term focus, sustainability criteria play a key strategic 3. Defined exclusion criteria This insures that the Group’s investments are managed role in investment. We are obligated to invest our clients’ in conformity with uniform policies and principles. The money sensibly and profitably in a manner that adThis approach helps us identify further risks and opsustainability specialists of MEAG ­focus on the continuheres to strict security and return requirements. Which portunities by going beyond standard financial analysis. ous strengthening of ESG integration across all asset is why, for both our investment and insurance business, We are convinced that the integration of ESG criteria classes, which is one of MEAG’s priorities for 2020. we consider it essential to consider Environmental, leads to better investment decisions in the long term. Social, and Governance (ESG) aspects and to offer responsible products and services. Munich Re _ CR-Report 2019 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 30 Responsible Investment Guideline (RIG): if such production, trade or transport is material sues for Munich Re Group. There are position for the respective company. […] papers in place for the following sensitive issues: The RIG is applicable to Munich Re, including its oil sands, fracking and mining. All these posireinsurance and primary insurance branches world[3] T rading and holding investments in food-related tion papers include specific questionnaires rewide. It applies to the complete investment portcommodities (e.g. grains and oilseeds, livegarding ESG aspects. For Arctic drilling there folio of Munich Re, no matter whether managed by stock, dairy, etc.) and related derivatives is not is a position paper and guideline in place. […] the company itself, by MEAG or any other third allowed. […] party. The RIG includes the following regulations: [7] T  he position paper and guideline on investment [4] Investments in equities or bonds of companies in farmland are to be taken into account as part [1] A t least 80% of the investments of each that derive more than 30% of their revenues of the due diligence on investment decisions ­business field in shares, corporate, government from the mining of coal or the generation of in relation to farmland. This applies both to inor covered bonds, real estate and alternative electricity from coal are not permitted. vestments in funds and to direct investments investments should be invested in assets that are for the purpose of leasing and/or farming. members in one of the established sustainability [5] Investments in equities or bonds of companies indices or meet other accepted sustainability that derive more than 10% of their revenues [8] Investments in government bonds and bonds criteria. […] from the mining of oil sands are not permitted. of government-related institutions of countries assessed in a certain category according to the [2] M  unich Re does not invest in companies that [6] T he Group Corporate Responsibility Committee MSCI ESG rating are not permitted. produce, trade in or transport banned weapons (GCRC) evaluates and prioritises sensitive isSustainability criteria firmly anchored in the The systematic integration of ESG criteria is an elemenTotal Investments Munich Re, investment process tary component of our investment strategy. Individually % of total market value (31.12. 2019)* defined ESG criteria are incorporated into the selec5.3% Our aim is to make the bulk of our investments sustaintion processes for all classes of assets. And all port­ 12.5% Equities able. The target achievement is measured on the basis folio managers and credit analysts at MEAG locations Other of internal sustainability reporting (sustainability ratio). worldwide have received comprehensive training on 0.4% And in 2019, over 80% of our investments were inESG criteria. Agricultural 29.7% and Forestry Corporates, vested sustainably in 2019 (of the €216bn in investPfandbriefe/ ments that are relevant for calculating the sustain­ An overview of the individual investment segments 2.6% Covered Bonds ability ratio). We calculate this by applying a series of and their focus on sustainability is provided below. The Infrastructure sustainability criteria for each asset class. infographic on the next page further illustrates the and Renewable € 247 bn MEAG investment process for shares and corporate 5.1% Real Estate bonds. 44.5% Government Bonds * By highlighting the sustainability criteria, the composition of the asset classes was slightly adjusted. Munich Re _ CR-Report 2019 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 31 Liquid assets: MEAG’S SUSTAINABLE Shares, corporate bonds and covered bonds: MEAG’s portfolio managers and credit analysts make INVESTMENT PROCESS 5. systematic use of MSCI ESG analyses, amongst other p or t f olio creation for share s an and dc data sources, in order to evaluate the return/risk aly s is orp or an at ­profile of various investments. MSCI ESG-ratings are ESG eb on ­integrated into MEAG’s front office system, giving portd Reporting: 2. a 2. b s regular reporting about our folio managers and credit analysts access to the rating ESG integration progress scores. This ensures that risks and opportunities and activities ­arising from sustainability issues are integrated into the investment decision. Furthermore, MEAG engages MSCI MEAG with issuers through dialogue and voting. MSCI: MEAG: MEAG portfolio managers and MEAG portfolio managers and Government bonds: credit analysts have access to ESG analyses and ESG ratings credit analysts create MEAG‘s own ESG analysis using MSCI MEAG’s portfolio managers use sustainability country of ~7,000 companies ESG information ratings from MSCI for their analysis. In cases where countries fail to satisfy our criteria, MEAG refrains from investing in their government bonds or the bonds 3. of quasi-governmental organisations. 4. 1. Illiquid assets: Sustainability is especially important in illiquid asset Portfolio creation: portfolio managers create a portEngagement: class investments. These investments are usually of a folio based on information from discussion of ESG risks and opporconventional financial secuparticularly long-term nature and Munich Re has a lot rities analyses and ESG tunities with companies and check Strategic asset allocation: of ESG aspects before voting of influence where, for example, rather than owning a allocation of capital among defianalyses at annual general meetings few percent of a company we own the whole asset. With ned asset classes (e.g. equities, bonds, real estate, renewable this in mind, we have implemented our own processes energy) for sustainability assessments using expert advisors who draw on our Group-wide know-how. Real estate: We always consider sustainability in the purchase, construction materials, technical facilities used, and gies apply. MEAG encourages its tenants to use its construction and renovation of real estate – and we considering the social aspects of the investment buildings in a sustainable way and has produced an observe our ESG criteria when performing due dili­project. When working on existing properties, requireinformation brochure on the subject. gence for new investments. This includes examining ments for energy efficiency and the choice of suitable the geographic properties of a site, evaluating the construction materials, partners and proven technoloMunich Re _ CR-Report 2019 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 32 € 2.9 bn Infrastructure and renewable energies: When buying forest, we consider the following ­aspects: In view of the extremely long investment periods – No acquisition of primary forest or of recently ­associated with infrastructure and renewable energy cleared primary forest areas projects, we carefully examine all risks associated – No purchase of unprotected, ecologically valuable with these investments. To this end, we have defined invested in renewable energies and green bonds areas specific ESG criteria for the investment category, – No land grabbing which form part of due diligence. The criteria ­address Agriculture and forestry: – When acquiring new forest that is not yet certified, climate change, community involvement and governOver and above financial considerations, our investment MEAG cares that the forest will become certified ance risks. In addition, we examine meteorological process evaluates important factors during due diliaccording to FSC/PEFC standards and climate-related factors (such as solar ­irradiation gence, which must be addressed to meet the aims of for solar installations, or wind force for onshore wind an investment. These include ESG criteria that, for When managing our forest investments, farms). And we also consider political parameters ­example, take climate-related aspects such as wildfires we pay attention to the following criteria: such as the relevant national energy policy. and precipitation into account. In addition, we also put – Sustainable management of the acquired land, the know-how of local forest managers to good use. e.g. independent certification in forestry and organic MEAG’s infrastructure assessment teams also work Nearly 100% of MEAG’s forest investments were volunagriculture closely with technical experts from Munich Re during tarily submitted to a third-party standards body (PEFC – Funding and participation in projects with positive the due diligence process to ensure all relevant risks and/­or FSC) as at end of 2019. Both FSC and PEFC ESG effects, e.g. creating jobs in rural areas, binding are taken into account from a sustainability perspective. have set specific national standards for forest managecarbon through new plantings or preserving the ment ­including social and environmental criteria. habitat of endangered animal species. Munich Re Stewardship Initiative: Long­ Texas Longleaf Task Force (TLTF) with the primary leaf Pine Restoration – Our commitment purpose of restoring the increasingly rare longleaf to biodiversity pine ecosystem. A project on a Munich Re owned property was identified: An existing, mature natural Once dominating the landscape of East Texas, over longleaf pine stand totalling 57 acres. This stand time the Longleaf Pine Ecosystem has been rewill be managed long term with the primary goal of duced to a small fraction of its historical acreage. ecologically enhancing the area to reflect the hisThe ecosystem associated with the longleaf pine torical longleaf pine savannah ecosystem. During is one of the most diverse assemblages of species the summer of 2019, undergrowth has been on the U.S. continent and includes a host of “­ species ­removed for greater sunlight penetration to the of concern”, e.g. the Red Cockaded Woodpecker ­forest floor and to encourage the growth and and the Texas Trailing Phlox. ­diversity of ­native grass species. On regular basis prescribed burns will be conducted to maintain The local forest property manager of Munich Re in the improved habitat and mimic historical fire Texas partnered with the non-profit organisation ­occurrences. Munich Re _ CR-Report 2019 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 33 Private equity: households, thereby avoiding some 800,000 tonnes Since 2018, we have considered ESG criteria as part of CO2 equivalents. of the due diligence we conduct for private equity investments as well as the application of an appropriate Sustainable focus for MEAG investment fund Responsible Investment Guideline for the target fund. MEAG offers its private and institutional clients a Cash: ­selection of sustainable investment products, as outOur portfolio managers use MSCI ESG analyses lined below: in addition to finance data to evaluate the risk and return profile for different investments. – The MEAG Nachhaltigkeit equity fund invests throughout the world, primarily in companies with Participations (subsidiaries): responsible management practices. Producers of Corporate Governance principles are Group-wide tobacco and alcoholic beverages, and arms manuimplemented in the due dilligence process of particifacturers are excluded, as are companies in the pations. gambling industry. MEAG Nachhaltigkeit is the fastest growing retail fund at MEAG. In addition to the selection process, our portfolio managers incorporate ESG issues into our shareholder –  MEAG FairReturn invests mainly in bonds and policies and practices. This is reflected, for example, shares from European issuers who act sustainably. by the MEAG voting policy. Issuers are selected on the basis of their environmentally friendly and socially responsible track Our investments: Focus on renewable ­energy ­record, as well as good corporate governance and technologies financial performance. Companies from contentious business fields are not considered. Through our investments, we aim to promote the use of future technologies in avoiding greenhouse gas – The MEAG EM Rent Nachhaltigkeit fund chiefly emissions. With this in mind, MEAG invests, on behalf invests in bonds from governments and companies of Munich Re, in infrastructure projects around the in emerging and developing countries with stable world such as solar power plants and wind farms. growth and sustainable policies. Once again, ­companies from contentious business fields are In 2019, invested capital (equity and debt) in renewable not considered. The volume of these products is energies was approximately €1.6bn and should be ­approximately €1bn. steadily increased over the next few years to €2.8bn, investment in green bonds amounted to approximately – As its name suggests, the MEAG Infrastructure €1.3bn. These investments help mitigate climate Debt Fund offers institutional investors targeted change. For example, in 2019 our installations gener­investments in infrastructure projects, for example, ated approximately 2.8 million megawatt hours of in renewable energies, transport, or social infragreen electricity, supplying power to around 700,000 structure. The overall commitment from third-­party Munich Re Group has agreed to acquire the 330 Madison Avenue building investors as of December 2019 was €660m. in New York City, designed by Ely Jacques Kahn, LEED Gold certified. Munich Re _ CR-Report 2019 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 34 risks, loss prevention measures and new risk transfer solutions. In addition, we examine long-term data on meteorology and losses to better understand changes in risk. A thorough understanding of climate change is essential for an insurer's risk management, because the consequences of climate change directly affect its business. Extreme weather events result in substantial damage to buildings and infrastructure, as well as cause significant crop losses in agriculture. Not to mention that people are sometimes killed or injured, particularly in regions where risk prevention is still in its infancy. There can be no doubt that climate change is one of the biggest challenges facing mankind. Immediate and decisive action is necessary to limit global warming to below 2°C above pre-industrial levels or, more desirably, to a maximum of 1.5°C. Munich Re is committed to achieving this goal set by the Conference of the Parties (COP) on Climate Change in Paris, and has undertaken to make its own, independent contribution to combating climate change. In addition to risk-reducing insurance solutions geared towards loss prevention and adaptation to climate change, we believe we can best provide leverage by helping new climate-friendly technologies to break through. We have assumed the role of enabler in the Solution-oriented responses to ever clearer evidence of this fact, although to fields of electricity generation, transport, energy stor­differing degrees depending on region and type ­ age and industrial production. And we see significant ­climate change of hazard. promise in providing energy from renewable sources > GRI 103; 201-2; 203-1; 203-2 such as hydrogen or methane fuel cell technology, as Munich Re is a pioneer in the analysis of how anthrowell as offshore wind farms. Climate change, predominantly the result of human pogenic global warming and natural climatic variability activity, is real and has a major influence on impact losses caused by weather-related natural disweather-­related natural disasters. Science provides asters. For the past four decades, we have researched Munich Re _ CR-Report 2019 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 35 How our climate strategy guides our actions Risk evaluation creates transparency risk transfer solutions for our clients. Natural disaster scenarios highlight the potentially huge losses that are The assessment and management of climate change-­ For us, recording and assessing the impact of climate possible and are among the strongest drivers for risk related risks and opportunities is an integral component change on the frequency and intensity of natural capital allocation. Accordingly, we need to know preof Munich Re’s strategy. All material and strategic is­disasters is of key strategic importance. This includes cisely where and why risks are changing, and what sues relating to it are handled by Munich Re’s Board future projections of changing risk levels for some preventive and adaptative measures are needed to of Management or one of its committees, which include decades ahead, although substantial uncertainty is inprotect people and property. As part of our strategic the Strategy Committee, the Group Investment volved in most cases (e.g. for tropical cyclone activity approach, climate change-related risks are consis­ Committee, and the Group Risk Committee. The Board in many ocean basins, or winter storms in Europe). tently integrated into Munich Re’s Internal Control of Management is supported by dedicated climate These assessments help us improve our own risk System (ICS). change experts and their teams within Munich Re management as well as develop and implement viable Group. These include the Chief Climate and Geo ­Scientist, leading experts on the research of climate risks and natural hazards, and the leading expert on climate ­liability, as well as experts on green technology Climate Strategy – Munich Re Group solutions, responsible investing, and sustainability. In addition, at least once a year, the Supervisory Board Business-related activities is informed about material sustainability topics on the basis of the combined non-financial statement Risk evaluation Risk-transfer solutions Asset management which includes our core climate protection activities and goals. Recording and evaluation of the Realisation of business growth areas Making investments GHG-­ impact of climate change on the as a leading provider of risk-transfer neutral by 2050 and supporting In general, our holistic strategic approach covers both frequency and intensity of natural solutions for renewable energies and the expansion of renewable business-related activities and corporate responsibility hazards. other products aimed at adapting to ­energies and infrastructure proand mitigating climate change. jects by pursuing a sustainable measures. It is made up of the following five pillars: investment strategy. Corporate responsibility Carbon neutrality strategy Involvement in climate initiatives Munich Re Group carbon neutral e.g. Munich Climate Insurance Initiative since 2015 (MCII), InsuResilience Munich Re _ CR-Report 2019 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 36 We also adopt a particular approach to research. This lighting climate risks and developing new business entails collecting loss data ourselves and participating opportunities. As part of the United Nations Environment in the particular research projects needed to provide Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI), Munich Re comprehensive risk analysis. On this basis, for example, and 20 other leading insurance companies are particisimulation models are built that allow our under­ pating in a pilot project, initiated by the PSI, to imwriters to carry out risk assessments for complex, very plement the TCFD ­recommendations. The objective large risks. We use models developed in-house as is the development of modern risk assessment tools well as recognised third-party models to do this. and industry-wide standards. The tools and indicators under development use the latest generation of scenario Munich Re is strongly associated with climate science, analyses to assess climate-related risks for tangible both through collaborative work with scientific facilities, assets and investments. including joint peer-reviewed publications, and by sponsoring research programmes. To this end we routinely analyse publications on climate change and Risk transfer solutions offer concrete assis­ regularly participate in research projects with scientific tance and promote innovative technologies institutes. By way of example, we are currently taking part in an investigation into severe thunderstorms in Adaptation to climate change Europe. This includes analyses of changes in the risk As a (re)insurer, Munich Re assumes a portion of the from hail and tornadoes throughout Europe, and maps financial burden of those affected by natural disasters, future changes in these risks using various climate allowing them to return to their daily lives more quickly models. after a loss event. Particularly in emerging and developing countries, a higher insurance density allows the Munich Re also supports another research project, economic shocks that follow disasters to be cushioned which uses models to investigate the extent to which more effectively, while supporting sustainable ecoMunich Re pioneered analysing the consequences of specific, severe weather events have become a nomic growth at the same time. Many of these countries climate change in the financial services and insurance more likely phenomenon as a result of climate change. are strongly affected both by natural disasters and sector in the 1970s. We began by investigating the The aim of this research is to enable preventive and the consequences of climate change. Generally speakcauses of increasingly costly losses from weather-­ adaptative measures to be applied in a more targeted ing, there is an urgent need for greater protection and related natural catastrophes. Today, we are part of a manner to protect people and property. adaptation to the consequences of natural disasters comprehensive scientific network that gives us access due to climate change in order to mitigate the humanto the latest findings on natural disasters and climate As part of the risk assessment, we examine the recitarian and financial impact. We aim to play a prevenchange. Among other things, our many years’ experiommendations of the international Task Force on tive role and to improve adaptation measures for the ence, in conjunction with this network, has produced ­Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). These consequences of climate change that have become new tools for digital analysis and solutions that imgo far beyond simply climate reporting. They also unavoidable. prove the insurability of natural hazards. The findings ­expedite the holistic integration of risks and opportuof these analyses are consolidated on an ongoing nities from climate change and the low-emission ­basis and translated into key recommendations for economy into the corporate value chain. At the same action by Munich Re. time, they represent a strategic approach to high­ Munich Re _ CR-Report 2019 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 37 Wildfire: Each year, wildfires cause billions in losses – particularly in the USA. What’s more, higher temper­ atures and prolonged spells of dry weather are also changing the risk situation in other regions. A complex interplay of man-made and natural factors has made wildfires a hazard that is difficult to quantify and – in many places – an increasingly common sight. Even if hazard zones can be clearly identified, fires can occur in unexpected locations and cause major damage. Measures that are needed to build resiliency and avoid losses include development concepts that avoid fire-­ hazard areas in the first place, improving the fire resistance of buildings, and the removal of dry, com­ bustible brushwood. Floods: Climate change is increasing the probability of extreme precipitation in many regions, which will lead to more frequent and disastrous flash floods. Flooding accounts for some 40% of all loss-related natural catastrophes since 1980, with losses worldwide to­ talling more than US$1tn. Only 12% of these losses were insured. To protect against flooding, many dykes, flood walls and retention basins have been built along rivers. Loss prevention at an individual level involves measures to improve the flood resilience of buildings and structures and avoiding development in haz­ ardous areas. Online content: Find more about climate change ­related hazards such as wildfire, floods, severe storms and droughts Munich Re _ CR-Report 2019 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 38 We want to make the benefits of insurance more evident against natural disasters as part of public-private Covers with parametric triggers are one example of an for all stakeholders, for example, for governments and partnerships, e.g. in the Sovereign & Humanitarian innovative risk transfer solution. In this instance, followsupranational organisations such as development banks Solutions working group. These projects could help ing a natural disaster of a specific strength – measured and primary insurers. To this end, we have increased spread insurance covers more widely in individual in terms of wind speed or volume of rain – payment our focus on developing and emerging countries, where countries or transnationally in the form of regional is made immediately without damage needing to be we support reducing the natural disaster insurance risk pools. proven in detail. This mechanism is particularly suited gap through our involvement in the Insurance Develop­ to financing emergency assistance, or to ensuring the ment Forum. In addition, we are a member of the IDF Munich Re also participates in a number of sovereign fiscal stability of the countries affected. These risk Steering Committee at Board of Management level, and public-private risk transfer schemes for natural transfer solutions are usually developed in the form of and participate in developing projects to protect catastrophes in both developed and developing countries. a public-private partnership – offered in conjunction with supranational development banks or governments – and implemented in cooperation with private insurance companies. Sovereign and public-private Nat Cat risk transfer schemes Sovereign and public-private Nat Cat risk transfer schemes The Caribbean Catastrophe Risk Insurance Facility (CCRIF), of which e.g. Haiti is a member, illustrates how an insurance pool of this kind operates in practice. Norway Switzerland Norsk Naturskadepool (NNPP) Swiss Natural Perils Pool (ESS-Pool) When the island state was hit by Hurricane Matthew United States Intercantonal Union of Reinsurance (IRV) in 2016, the CCRIF paid out over US$23m to the Iceland National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) Icelandic Catastrophe ­Haitian government within just a few days. Despite the Insurance (ICI) Romania fact that this covered only a small portion of the total Programul Roman de Asigurare la damage, the payment allowed emergency measures Catastrofe (PAID) Mexico United Kingdom Taiwan to be taken promptly, while international aid campaigns Flood Re Residential Earthquake Insurance Pool Fondo Nacional de Desastres (TREIF) were still in the preparation phase. The total of CCRIF Naturales (FONDEN) Turkey Catastrophe Insurance payouts to Caribbean member states for the period Algeria Catastrophe Insurance Pool Pool (TCIP) Philippines of 2007–2019 exceeded US$152m. There are also Caribbean Catastrophe Risk Insurance Sovereign Parametric Insurance similar programmes in place for Africa, Pacific island (PSPI) Facility (CCRIF) states, and in several provinces of the Philippines. African nations African Risk Capacity (ARC) Indonesian Catastrophe Reinsurance Pool Active climate protection by promoting Pacific Islands (Maipark) All developing countries Pacific Catastrophe Risk ­climate-friendly technologies Pandemic Emergency Financing Facility (PEF) Sri Lanka Insurance Company (PCRIC)) We need a new approach, worldwide, to limit global Natural Disaster Insurance warming. Achieving this target requires new technolo­ Scheme (NNDIS) New Zealand gies for power generation, transportation, energy storEarthquake Commission (EQC) Flood EQ Storm Drought age and industrial production. Our focus is on crafting insurance solutions that will smooth the path of these Source: Munich Re 7 1 technologies to market by enhancing their appeal to investors and strengthening their financing viability. Munich Re _ CR-Report 2019 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 39 And we are well placed to do this because Munich Re Our Green Tech Solutions team, which was specially coal-fired power plants or new coal mines in industrihas specialist technical expertise in this area and many established to develop innovative solutions, operates as alised countries, or in the majority of emerging markets. years’ experience in renewable energies and energy a business enabler, and provides investors, project There may be a small number of exceptions in countries efficiency. ­developers, plant manufacturers and start-ups with a where a substantial portion of the population (more wide range of ways to succeed on the market. than 10%) has no access to electricity. In such countries, We also frequently play a pioneering role in the market, cases are analysed on the basis of clear criteria. These for example, by offering new types of insurance cover. Online content: More about Green Tech Solutions include a country’s dependency on coal, the natural A good example of this is the 25-year performance endowment of renewable energy sources, the climate guarantee we make possible for manufacturers of photoFurther innovation includes a solution we developed strategy of the company or country in question, and voltaic modules. This gives our clients added security to promote investment in renewable energies in Africa. the technical standards applied. Oil sands will also no for the quality of their products and relieves the module As part of the UN initiative, Sustainable Energy for longer be insured as a single risk. Munich Re does not manufacturer of the need to make provision for any All (SE4ALL), which targets the sub-Saharan region, invest in shares or bonds of companies that generate warranty claims. Also associated with the field of reMunich Re developed the African Energy Guarantee more than 30% of their revenue from coal. Since newable energies, our Wind Energy Yield Cover solution Facility (AEGF) risk transfer solution in collaboration ­September 2019, Munich Re has not investmented in insures the availability and performance of turbines, with the European Investment Bank (EIB) and two shares or bonds of companies that generate more as well as wind output. primary insurers. This offers protection against political than 10% of their revenue from oil sands extraction. risks in order to facilitate private investment in the use On a global level, we are the first insurer to offer a of renewable energies. As a sustainable (re)insurance Asset management makes the most of climate performance cover for battery storage, thus enabling pool, the AEGF structure involves risk transfer protection potential battery manufacturers the opportunity to offer their tranches, which can be assumed by insurers and pricustomers long-term performance guarantees. The vate financial institutions. Notably, AEGF offers an In support of the Paris Agreement objective to limit product, which covers the repair costs and replacement ­insurance capacity of US$ 1.4bn for political risks to a the global temperature increase to well below 2 °C, value of battery modules (exceeding a specific cost total of 25 African countries. Munich Re has expanded its climate strategy with a threshold), makes it significantly easier for manufacturrecent commitment to having a GHG-neutral investers to ramp up deployment of battery capacity. And Online content: More about AEGF ment portfolio by 2050. In order to drive implementathis has the effect of making renewable energy more tion of this strategic objective, Munich Re joined the dependable and widely available. The product was Our Group-wide positions on coal and oil sands support UN-convened “Net-Zero Asset Owner Alliance” (AOA) launched in 2019 with the US battery manufacturer ESS the promotion of new, climate friendly technologies in January 2020. Inc. as first customer. ESS produces stationary battery and, wherever possible, replacing climate damaging modules that allow energy from solar parks and network technologies. We have anchored these positions in our operators to be stored over long periods. In addition, Responsible Investment Guideline as well as in our we offer performance guarantee covers for fuel cells, underwriting guidelines. These stipulate that, in single LED lighting technology and bioenergy plants. risk business, Munich Re will no longer insure new Munich Re _ CR-Report 2019 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 40 In addition, we have defined particular areas for investCarbon neutrality in Munich Re Group’s Munich Re also supports the InsuResilience Global ment in order to promote the use of low-carbon tech­operational acitivities Partnership initiative. Founded in 2015 by the G7 nologies and avoid GHG emissions. In particular, we countries and expanded in 2019, this initiative aims to focus on direct investments in renewable energies and We exploit the potential of our own operational proenable an additional 500 million poor and vulnerable green bonds. Expanding investments in renewable cesses to ensure climate-friendly action. As part of our people in developing and emerging countries to access energy and infrastructure projects contributes to climate Groupwide environmental and climate protection insurance products covering weather and climate change adaptation and mitigation. The volume of ­strategy, we have set binding targets for reducing CO2 risks by 2025. The initiative is primarily financed by ­capital invested in renewable energies such as solar emissions per employee by 35% by 2020 (basis year industrialised countries and the insurance industry parks and wind farms totalled €1.6bn at the end 2009). Operational activities throughout our Group have has offered US$5bn of risk capital. However, the Insu­ of 2019. And our long-term target is to increase this been carbon-­neutral since 2015. There is more deResilience Global Partnership also relies on the active figure to €2.8bn. tailed information on our environmental manageinvolvement of governments in emerging and develment system and further activities in the section on oping countries, as well as close cooperation with civil Environment. society, insurers and the scientific community. Example of environmental and climate friendly Involvement in climate initiatives The Munich Climate Insurance Initiative (MCII) was investment: founded in 2005, following an initiative by ­Munich Re For many years, Munich Re has played an active role and representatives from the World Bank, NGOs Waste to energy – MEAG acquires stake in in a range of public and private climate protection orand academia. Since then, MCII has participated in the ­Dublin Waste to Energy PPP project ganisations, such as the United Nations Environment global climate negotiations (Conferences of Parties, Programme and ClimateWise. We wish to contribute COPs) where it has provided suggestions on climate MEAG acquired a stake in the Dublin Waste our expertise as a valuable partner for political decision-­ risk management. MCII has also contributed technical to Energy PPP project from DIF Capital Partners. makers, organisations and enterprises. support in the discussions on dealing with losses from The waste incineration plant is the largest of climate change under the United Nations Framework its kind in Ireland and one of the main pillars In 2020 Munich Re joined ClimateWise, a growing Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) Loss and of the climate action plan. Part of a public-private global network of leading insurance industry organisaDamage programme and the Warsaw International partnership (PPP) and located in the port of ­Dublin, tions hosted by the Cambridge Institute for Sustain­ Mechanism. the facility can currently burn up to 600,000 tons ability Leadership. The network was specifically set of domestic and commercial waste annually and up to back the insurance industry in its efforts to Closer to home, we back “Tackling Climate Change generate electricity for 60,000 households from communicate, disclose and respond to the risks and Together” a Munich Re and ERGO initiative which funds non-recyclable residual waste. In addition, close opportunities associated with the climate-risk protection and supports the work of cleantech pioneers. To this attention is always paid to compliance with strict gap (the increasing distance between total economic end we cooperate in a start-up accelerator programme environmental standards. losses attributed to climate change and insured losses). with Climate-KIC, the largest public-private climate This applies particularly in emerging and developing initiative in the EU. Find more in the Society section. Further information on this topic can be found in countries where, typically, the insurance gap is exthe Investment section. tremely large. With this in mind, it is essential to promote adaptation to climate change and offer insurance-­ related risk management mechanisms to reduce economic shocks from natural disasters. Munich Re _ CR-Report 2019 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 41 In particular, we focus on the following fields of activity: Business opportunities and the digitalisation of Munich Re’s value chain Digitalisation offers us the opportunity to extend business boundaries via new business models. And ­Munich Re already offers its clients a variety of new products and solutions in both primary insurance and reinsurance. Our cyber (re-)insurance knowledge and products put us in a position where we can ­fulfil our social role as a risk carrier as well as provide our clients with financial protection in case of a ­cyber-attack. In order to build our competitiveness and efficiency we are also actively engaged in the digital transformation of our own value chain, which has significant implications for our employees in their daily work. ­As an employer, we act with particular caution and responsibility to support our employees in this transformation process. High priority is also given to data protection and cyber security. It is our aim to not only protect our clients from cyber risks but also Munich Re Group itself. For us, it is crucially important to protect the personal ­data of our employees and clients, the information of our business and sales partners, and our own company secrets. Ultimately, we are committed to being a Using digitalisation responsibly competent and trustworthy business partner, so much > GRI 103; 203-1; 203-2 ware, technology and the necessary training to develop so that we have anchored this principle in our Code employees and experts. And that’s why digitalisation is of Conduct. Detailed information on this topic can be an integral part of the Munich Re business strategy. found in the section on corporate governance. Digitalisation is key to a successful future for the inIn the context of digital transformation, we have desurance industry. It will transform the industry’s entire fined data protection, cyber security, and the responvalue chain as well as change our clients’ requirements. sible implementation of Artificial Intelligence (AI) as With this in mind, the industry needs to invest in hardkey aspects of corporate responsibility. Munich Re _ CR-Report 2019 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 42 for our developers, users and managers through, for development of European guidelines and standards example, our Digital School, data analytics curriculum, and provide target-group-specific trainings to develand Cyber Expert Pool. opers, managers and users within Munich Re to ensure that our employees use AI responsibly. We set up the “Digital School” in 2018. It is a comprehensive digital training programme for all employees The High-Level Expert Group on Artificial Intelligence in the reinsurance business field. The objective of the appointed by the European Commission adopted school is to ensure that each employee has at least a ­Ethics Guidelines on Artificial Intelligence in 2019. The basic knowledge of the digital technologies and trends Guidelines put forward a human-centric approach to that affect us. The Cyber Expert Pool was launched AI and list key requirements that AI systems should in the same year as the school to focus on the reinsurmeet in order to be trustworthy. These requirements ance side of our business. It is a special training prowill go through a piloting process, in which Munich Re gramme for cyber security experts aimed at qualifying will take part. candidates with suitable professional experience in cyber security to work on cyber underwriting. In addiMunich Re has also developed a human rights-based tion to the above, Munich Re invests significantly in “Responsible AI strategy” in accordance with the the data analytics expertise of its actuaries and under­European Commission guidelines, which cover issues writers by offering a “Black Belt Curriculum”. You can such as privacy, surveillance, discrimination, bias, find more information on our training programmes ­unintended consequences, and misuse by bad actors. in the employee section. Our strategy is based on the following principles: Training our developers and employees Digital technology is transforming the workplace, Responsible handling of artificial intelligence Principles of “ethics guidelines for trustworthy AI” ­especially at companies that are highly dataand knowl­ (AI) and big data – Respect for human autonomy edge-driven, such as Munich Re. Additionally, in the – Prevention of harm course of digitalisation, the volume of available data Artificial intelligence and big data will play a central – Fairness has increased significantly. This paves the way for role in the future of the insurance industry. They will – Explicability ­innovative business models and numerous new fields impact everything from product design, underwriting, of application, such as AI-based loss identification and claims management to internal accounting proNeeds-oriented solutions and the analysis of sensor data. At the same time, data cesses. And applying strong ethical principles is essential We only want to use AI in the sectors that promise analysis is becoming increasingly complex, requiring to protect the rights of our clients when using new added value for our clients or our employees. In this ongoing training of experts, along with a cross-sector data-based algorithms. Munich Re is aware of its recontext, we rely on targeted applications with a clear transfer of knowledge. This is the only way to compete sponsibilities with regard to the use of AI-based sysconnection to insurance, such as: successfully against global competitors in one of the tems and processes and is responding accordingly. key fields of application for digitalisation. – A risk assessment that is shorter and simpler for In order to live up to this responsibility we have esthe applicant In order to support the digital readiness of our emtablished a Group-wide framework for the compliant – Prompt claim review and payment ployees we have established a learning culture that development of AI algorithms used in new risk solu– Insurability of new kinds of risk focuses on Munich Re’s digital priorities. We also protions and we collaborate with academia and research vide target-group-specific basic and further training institutes in this regard. Additionally, we support the Munich Re _ CR-Report 2019 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 43 When developing AI applications, we consider social Prevention of unacceptable effects Transparency and economic aspects. At the same time, we are We monitor the impact of the decisions made by AI We attach great importance to ensuring the greatest guided by the legal, social and cultural standards of algorithms to prevent undesirable effects being created possible transparency of our algorithms. Cooperation all the countries we operate in. or aggravated. By way of example: AI algorithms could with scientific and research institutes gives us access be used in healthcare, what might have repercussions to the latest processes that make the behaviour of for treatment and insurance cover. In our view, it is AI systems comprehensible. unacceptable if a higher risk for a serious illness results for the person concerned due to decisions made by Social impact of AI – promote exchange, an AI algorithm. protect against risks Data governance AI will have multiple repercussions on society that are The persons affected must have full control of their impossible to predict today. For that reason, ethical data and be in a position to decide independently on guidelines for dealing with AI can only be achieved in their use. Consumers should always have the choice dialogue with politicians and scientists. Our AI experts on whether or not to provide personal data for a service are members of several bodies, where they exchange or a third party. information with other companies and draw up guidelines for dealing responsibly with the technology. In We implement these requirements by way of the addition, Munich Re has become a shareholder in the following concepts: German Research Centre for Artificial Intelligence (DFKI). This move will strengthen cooperation between AI governance the world’s leading representatives from the fields of A central component of AI governance is compliance industry, science and politics. Not only will the partnerwith applicable laws and internal Group rules and ship help us develop the best processes for our clients, principles, irrespective of the technology used. In conbut it will also make the latest knowledge available to formity with existing rules on human decision-making, our employees and further advance research in this field. there must be an appropriate balance between the degree of autonomy and regulation of AI systems on the Many social problems can be solved with AI, for exone hand, and the associated risks on the other. Our ample, in the fields of medicine and mobility. We want Non-discrimination AI governance also provides for clear responsibilities to take on the role of enabler for these AI technologies When developing algorithms, we pay close attention when dealing with artificial intelligence. by assuming the residual risks from AI decisions. Howto preventing any form of discrimination. We attach ever, an important precondition for insurability is that great importance to ensuring that our algorithms do Technical robustness specific standards are met in terms of quality, stability, not adopt or amplify existing forms of discrimination We ensure technical robustness when developing our non-discrimination, transparency and comprehensithat are frequently found in historical data. We also systems. In this way, we ensure that AI operates within bility. For that reason, together with partners such as check that our data base, to the best possible extent, secure boundaries even in the event of malfunctions. the DFKI and Applied AI, we aim to define standards covers all relevant groups of persons, for example in In this context, malfunctions include unforeseen events for the evaluation of the various AI algorithms. terms of age, gender, nationality and ethnicity. and manipulative attacks from outside that interfere with the AI system. Munich Re _ CR-Report 2019 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 44 Below, we give some examples of the ways in which we endeavour to enhance risk awareness in the following fields of action: – Mitigating the risks from natural disasters – Collaborating with partners to strengthen resilience Mitigating the risks from natural catastrophes Each year, natural catastrophes destroy assets worth multiple billions around the world. And the number of recorded losses resulting from natural disasters has been increasing for some years now driven by socioeconomic changes but in some regions also due to the rise in the number of extreme weather events. Industrialized countries have responded by reducing the insurance gap between actual and insured damage, but there is still a considerable gulf in developing and emerging countries, which remain particularly vulnerable to catastrophes. Back in the early 1980s, only about a quarter of losses resulting from natural disasters were insured, even in highly developed countries. Today, this has improved to the point where just less than half of all losses are covered in industrialised nations. However, the situation in many developing and emerging counIncreasing risk awareness in society tries has not improved in decades. The proportion of > GRI 103; 203-1; 203-2 p ­ arties need to understand it very well. This is why insured losses is still well below 10% and sometimes risk awareness is a key issue that cuts across every almost zero. More widespread insurance coverage Munich Re empowers people to cope with existing and ­aspect of our core business. would help put emerging countries, in particular, in a future challenges by making the risks they face in­ better position to withstand the economic shock that surable. Our objective is to identify emerging risks at The insurance industry can help make societies more follows natural disasters and become more resilient. an early stage and assess them from every possible resilient in the face of disasters. And this is particularly perspective. This allows us to enhance the risk awaretrue in poorer regions of the world, where improving ness of our partners in both the private and public risk management and resilience are critical elements sectors. And awareness is critical because, before any in mitigating the impact of humanitarian disasters risk can be properly insured, potentially affected and facilitating sustainable economic growth. Munich Re _ CR-Report 2019 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 45 Mitigating the consequences of natural catastrophes We are a founding member and active participant in is one of the major challenges faced by the insurance the Australian Business Roundtable for Disaster Re­ industry. And insurers seeking to provide insurance silience and Safer Communities (ABR). Australia is solutions for such extreme risks need in-depth knowlhighly prone to natural disasters, which include devasedge of the factors driving these risks in order to tating floods, cyclones and bushfires. The ABR was quantify them and assess their probabilities. When it founded to promote the development of a sustainable became apparent that insured losses from natural and nationally coordinated approach to managing disasters were increasing back in the 1970s, Munich Re natural disasters. Most members of the initiative are was quick to identify the need for greater expertise leading companies or aid organisations. in this area. Since then, our insurance specialists have worked with experienced scientists and research In the United States, Munich Re America, American ­organisations to analyse and assess the entire spectrum Modern Insurance Group and Hartford Steam Boiler of natural hazards, including cyclones, severe thun(HSB) partner in supporting the Insurance Institute derstorms, floods, earthquakes and volcanic eruptions. for Business & Home ­Safety (IBHS). Independent ­experts and scientists use natural catastrophe and The result of these efforts is that, today, our risk analyses hazard scenarios to check the safety and construction reflect the latest scientific findings and form the basis standards of buildings for private and commercial use. of our risk models and our range of natural hazards risk The results of this research are then incorporated into »As many catastrophe losses are not transfer products. In addition, our specialised expertise in assessing natural perils helps enhance risk awarethe US building commissions and regulations as a recommendation. covered by insurance, cooperation ness in affected regions and creates a better understanding of the positive effects of loss prevention and IBHS delivers top-tier science and translates it into between governments and the private insurance, all of which enables us to develop tailorsupport for thriving communities. This unique facility made risk transfer solutions for particular regions with enables researchers to more fully and accurately evalusector is becoming increasingly im­ partners from science, business and the public sector. ate residential and commercial construction materials Find more information on sustainable risk transfer and systems through realistic re-creation of severe portant as a way of closing the insur­ solutions in the climate change section. weather hazards. The research conducted significantly ance gap – especially in emerging Global commitment to risk prevention in advances building resiliency in the built environment that we insure and reinsure in the U.S. countries – and thus supporting sus­ ­relation to natural disasters Furthermore, in order to enhance risk awareness of tainable economic development« Munich Re is involved in a wide range of prevention and adaptation measures aimed at protecting people landslides after monsoon rainfall in India and to develop suitable prevention measures, we support a project _Ernst Rauch, in exposed regions, for example: initiated by GeoHazards International (GHI). Further Global Head Climate & Public Sector Business Development information on this subject can be found in the section on Society. Munich Re _ CR-Report 2019 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 46 Our risk assessment tools Munich Re’s Location Risk Intelligence solution is a asters. The service offers data on natural catastrophes sis of risks and trends. Since 2017, this information cloud-based analysis tool to help clients and partners that goes back to 1980 and can provide an interactive has been available for download from the Munich Re in assessing risks from natural hazards (Natural analysis to match particular situations. Approximately website. In addition, clients and interested parties ­Hazards Edition), or climate (Climate Change Edition) 1,000 new events are recorded and analysed every can use the NatCatSERVICE online tool to carry out around the world – from individual locations to entire year and the information documented includes the data analysis to meet their individual needs. portfolios – and thus helps to accelerate business proscale and intensity of individual natural catastrophes cesses and improve both portfolio and claims managearound the world, which is incorporated into the analy­ Online content: More about our NatCatSERVICE ment. In the „Natural Hazards Edition“, risk assessment is carried out using a series of map layers with hazard and risk ratings based on Munich Re’s NatCat risk models. These models in turn are based on a combination of scientific knowledge on different perils, such as hurricanes, earthquakes, floods, etc., and the evaluation of such historical events and the associated claims experience. The assessments of the „Climate Change Edition“ are based on internationally agreed scenarios for greenhouse gas emissions, the so-called Representative Concentration Pathways (RCP) ­scenarios up to 2100. The map layers used here are a combination of processed global and regional climate models output and the Munich Re NatCat models adapted on the basis of scientific journal papers. Thanks to the modular structure of the SaaS solution, each of the two product versions can be supplemented at any time with the other assessment model. Online content: More about Location Risk Intelligence Solution © Munich Re NatCatSERVICE A further Munich Re information service is our NatCat­ SERVICE which, with approximately 40,000 data sets, is the world’s most extensive database of natural disMunich Re _ CR-Report 2019 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 47 Significant transparency is provided by the Global Strengthening resilience against epidemics helping more people in need. Several operational risks Earthquake Model (GEM) and the publication of the of the GF were also analysed with the aim of ensuring first digital global earthquake-risk map, which aims Munich Re and its subsidiary Social Impact Partners prompt responses to disasters or losses, providing ad­ to do more than simply map earthquake hazards have supported the organisation The Global Fund to equate means to stop the spread of AIDS, Tuberculosis worldwide. It allows a risk model to be drawn up for fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria (GF). Since 2014, and Malaria as quickly and efficiently as possible. each country, incorporating data on the economy and GF has developed a comprehensive risk assessment the exposed building stock. This allows estimates of and ­provided recommendations on ways to reduce Social Impact Partners supported the GF by jointly loss potentials to be made alongside an exploration of risk. Munich Re provided risk management and insuridentifying and selecting risks and developing ideas on the benefits of mitigation measures. The GEM emerged ance expertise to help the GF identify and manage exefficient ways to mitigate them through traditional from an initiative between researchers and the OECD posures through bespoke solutions, with the ultimate and innovative tailor-made risk solutions, pushing the in 2007, with Munich Re as the sole enabling company goal to reduce the victims of AIDS, Tuberculosis boundaries of insurability. Social Impact Partners and founding sponsor. Today, the GEM operates on an and Malaria. ­also explored the development of a multi-dimensional open-source basis, so that user models, for example concept to increase resilience to provide greater those of governments, public authorities, organisations, Cooperating on various initiatives, the main focus in ­resources to fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria. researchers and insurers, can be specifically modified. 2019 was to find solutions for more efficient delivery of high-quality drugs for developing countries, ultimately Strengthening the resilience of cities More than 50% of the world’s population currently lives in urban centres and, by 2050, the figure is expected to rise to 80%. Unfortunately, many key cities are situated in exposed regions and losses in these ­locations can be exceptionally high in the event of natural disasters. It is therefore particularly important to increase the resilience of major cities and this has been a key issue for Munich Re for many years. More specifically, our range of solutions and innovative ­financing concepts helps cities improve risk management. One such example is the Urban Air Pollution Impact Bond, where Munich Re assists city authorities with air-improvement measures and environmental protection. Munich Re also fully supports the PSI ICLEI Insurance Industry Development Goals for Cities, which set an action framework for the insurance industry to support the sustainable development of cities. 03_Employees Munich Re _ CR-Report 2019 Corporate Governance Core Business Employees Environment Society Key Figures Indices Annex 49 Responsible Respect and esteem in our Code of Conduct: employer „We expect all members of staff to observe every individual´s personal dignity, privacy and person> GRI 103 ality rights. We do not tolerate discrimination (on grounds of disability, age, gender, ethnic origin, Highly qualified, efficient managers and employees are nationality, sexual identity, political opinion, race, the foundation of our corporate success. As a global religion, beliefs or similar), sexual or other personal financial services provider we depend on their expertise, harassment, or insulting behaviour. We also do dedication and commitment to innovation. Continuous not tolerate socially inappropriate behaviour, intraining and development play a key role in this context. timidation or violence, or the threat of such. The recruitment, development and retention of experts and managers is one of the two core objectives Responsible leadership of our human resources policy. At the same time, we Our managers’ culture of leadership and their promote diversity and equal opportunities as strategic duty as role models are an essential part of our factors for the success of Munich Re Group. compliance culture. We expect our managers to take responsibility for their staff members For our more than 39.600 employees, we create atand reaching our business goals with integrity. tractive working conditions that offer personal opporTheir own conduct should reflect what they tunities and strengthen the autonomy of our employees. »Our staff is the most ­expect from their staff. We attach particular importance to a corporate ­culture based on responsible and respectful interaction ­important asset Munich Re As a Group, we aim to … with each other. Promoting the wellbeing of employees … promote diversity and conduct ourselves accordand a healthy balance between private life and work has – a must for a company ingly, both within the Group and in public; forms a substantial component of all our activities as … have our managers act as role models for their an employer. that sells sophisticated colleagues and employees. ­insurance solutions to its As members of staff, this means that we …  ­clients.« … support a culture in which ethically irreproachable conduct is recognised, valued and embod_Joachim Wenning, CEO Munich Re ied by all; … treat our colleagues and business partners with fairness and respect.” Munich Re _ CR-Report 2019 Corporate Governance Core Business Employees Environment Society Key Figures Indices Annex 50 Strategic and target-oriented – The expansion of health promotion programmes; – Ensuring employee satisfaction. ERGO Leadership Programme (ELP) HR m ­ anagement > GRI 103 The following sections provide information on the many 20 talents (12 male, 8 female = 40% mandated different measures we use to meet our own ambitions. ­female representation) focused on innovation and The Group Human Resources Department (Group HR) You can find additional information and examples for leadership in the digital world. The programme is responsible for personnel issues that affect the primary insurance, reinsurance and MEAG in the (ELP) will help participants to take personal owner­entire Group, and suggests strategies which are then ­respective career portals of Munich Re, ERGO and MEAG. ship for ERGO´s transformation and will provide implemented – either via policies (e.g. on diversity) them with the skills, tools and leadership acumen or HR committees (e.g. Group HR Committee) – into Development and Talent Management necessary to address upcoming business chalthe various divisions’ business practices. Our personnel > GRI 404-2 lenges. The programme closed in November with management is tailored to the specific needs of the the presentation of four innovation projects to the respective business model, with the goal of applying Management ERGO Group Board. The new ideas that emerged our business strategies as well as possible in the We prepare our high potentials for management from the programme, in co-operation with the ­respective environment. ­positions in their home country or abroad. Our devel­Innovation Department of London Business School, opment programme “Group Management Platform” will be transferred to line business in the coming A Group-wide framework of overarching ­regulations for the Group’s senior management staff connects top months. The next cycle of the programme will start ensures a coordinated approach at Group level with management with the Group's top talents and prepares in the spring of 2021. regard to the following topics. them for the challenges of the future through application of innovative development formats (147 participants in 2019, 124 in the previous year). At business field Our targets on the Executive level area of action: level, we have specific programmes: “Hydrogen” for reinsurance and “MEAG Young Manager” in our investby means of staff rotation, facilitated by a group-wide – Management development ment arm are designed for this purpose. internal job market, which is transparent to all staff – Diversity and equal opportunities world-wide. – Executive staff remuneration At ERGO, a new global talent programme (ELP) was – Tailor made training regarding transformation launched in spring 2019, focusing on innovation and Staff training and digitalisation, especially for leadership and leadership in the digital world. Our employees can take advantage of a wide range of management roles target-group-oriented training measures. This inIn 2019, we were able to fill approximately 84% of all cludes technical training, methodology and social Our targets in the Employees area of action: open management positions in reinsurance with internal competence courses, management topics, IT compecandidates at our Munich headquarters. This shows tencies, compliance regulations, occupational health – Specific needs-based training of all employees, in that our HR development measures are effective. In and safety trainings as well as language courses. The particular in the area of digitalisation; combination with long-term succession planning for courses take place in a variety of formats: on-site – The identification and development of leadership current senior management, we ensure that the quality classes, e-learning, webinars, group and individual talent – where possible from within the Group itself; of our management is at the level we need to remain training. In addition, change processes within Munich – An increase of women in managerial positions in successful. At the same time, we strengthen the techRe are monitored and supported comprehensively Germany to at least 25% by the end of 2020; nical and intercultural competences of our employees and professionally. – The promotion of diversity as a strategic success factor; Munich Re _ CR-Report 2019 Corporate Governance Core Business Employees Environment Society Key Figures Indices Annex 51 Continuous conversations between managers and To manage the challenges of digitalisation, Munich Re ­employees play a particularly important role in the invests significantly in the analytic expertise of its Why did you choose to train as a Black Belt? success of training and development measures. All ­actuaries and underwriters by offering the Black Belt We have to stay relevant to our customers. With employees discuss their personal development needs Curriculum. Employees conduct a four-week presence this in mind it is important that we identify and and ideas regularly with their managers. training in collaboration with local partner universities understand their challenges and needs. In addition at three locations: Munich, Princeton and Singapore. to the traditional reinsurance business, further 2019 In 2019, 85 employees completed Black Belt Training solutions – especially in the context of digitisation – Employees attending at least 92% successfully. In total, Group-wide about 200 employees are becoming increasingly important. Bringing one training have concluded Black Belt Training. together the specific needs of our customers with Spend per employee on €836 Munich Re’s expertise in the area of data analytics training activities Learning goals of Black Belt Training are: enables us to generate added value for both parties. Training per employee 4.8 days – Autonomous translation of general business ­problems into Data Analytics solutions For me, the Black Belt programme was the ideal Additional relevant key indicator can be found in the – Using tools and methods to generate solutions ­opportunity to enrich my knowledge as an underKey Figures section. ­independently writer with expertise in the field of data analytics – Effective use of MR DataLake for analytics use cases in order to be able to develop new solutions for Staff training priority topic – Digitalisation – Knowing and applying GDPR, understanding our customers. Digitalisation is of high-level strategic relevance for a ­ nalytics architecture principles and their implication Munich Re. Our innovation strategy sets down clearly on analytics operations How has Black Belt knowledge changed defined key topics for digital transformation. This your work? ­includes such things as the use of large and new data Completely! The Black Belt training fundamentally volumes, as well as the application of new analytic changed my work as an underwriter. For the first methods. It is particularly important that our employees two years after completing my training, I was given master of the tools and work methods required for ­our the opportunity to devote myself entirely to develprofessional tasks and areas of operation. The introducoping new data analytics solutions for our cus­ tion of the “Digital School” in September 2018 in the tomers. This challenge enabled me to gain a wide reinsurance field of business offers comprehensive variety of experience. digital training to all employees. Our goal is to provide every employee with at least basic knowledge of the What role does responsible use of data play in digital technologies and trends affecting us. The school Black Belt Training? offers digital-literacy training, such as in the fields of Responsible handling of data is of central imporagile methods, data analytics, design thinking, digital tance during Black Belt Training. Data protection leadership and technologies and working in the digital and data security is a key topic. The trust our age. The programme includes various training formats, ­customers place in us means we have an enormous ranging from e-learning courses to advanced personal responsibility towards them. The highest security training such as the Black Belt programme. And emstandards are absolutely essential and must ployees demonstrate a keen interest in the courses. In Interview with Emanuel Schwarzbauer on ­always be observed to protect our business and 2019, the programme was accessed more than 13,000 Black Belt Training our customers. times. Munich Re _ CR-Report 2019 Corporate Governance Core Business Employees Environment Society Key Figures Indices Annex 52 In the primary insurance field of business, ERGO set up the transformation@ergo programme to build knowledge of primary insurance. Three action fields (competence management, change management and training) were identified, with the goal of preserving and reinforcing the employability of the workforce. The programme offers training in the key competencies of digital transformation (social, agile, innovation, technology, analytical, resilience) that ­address such topics as management styles in times of digital change, the consequences and opportunities of digital change, and the skills and qualifications required for the ­digital work environment. With a focus on our future business, the Cyber Expert Pool was launched for the reinsurance side of our business in 2018. This is a special training programme for cyber security experts aimed at qualifying candidates with suitable professional experience in cyber security to work on cyber ­underwriting. So far, 18 underwriters have been successfully trained as cyber experts in different international locations. The total number of training days used by our employees and our expenses for the training measures are listed in the Key figures section. Online content: More about training at Munich Re Diversity matters and equal opportunities at Group level by means of Gender > GRI 405-1 key data. The divisions take their own measures in We work determinedly to increase the proportion of accordance with the respective challenges they face. women in management positions. The measures we The different mindsets, cultures and values of our Our Group-wide Diversity Policy sets down the take to achieve this goal include the following: staff are vital to be an excellent partner for our clients. most important principles in this action field and For this reason, we want to continue promoting diverforms the basis for overarching and comprehensive – Strong representation of female talents in talent sity and equal opportunities in the Group. The Group diversity management. The criteria of gender, age programmes: (e.g. ERGO Leadership Programme 40%, HR Department manages the subject of diversity and internationality are decisive for our activities. Hydrogen 43%, Group Management Platform 29%) Munich Re _ CR-Report 2019 Corporate Governance Core Business Employees Environment Society Key Figures Indices Annex 53 – (Cross-)mentoring programmes for women – Training courses for female management staff, ­advisory services 35.4% woman in management positions Group-wide – Formation of women’s networks (Munich Re educational offers that promote lifelong learning, as “EFEU”; Munich Re of America “Employee Rewell as various other offers that promote our empoyee’s source Groups”; MEAG “WIN@MEAG”) health. ERGO and our reinsurance arm in Germany have company agreements in place regarding work and – Identification of high-potential female employees, family life-balance. In addition, employees can make use in ­t alent discussion with gender sensitisation of specialized external service providers free of charge. – Strong commitment to the promotion of women Internationality through a special internal company agreement We aim to achieve “internationality” with well-balanced (Munich Re Munich): Right to workplace reintegration teams and assignments to key functions. At the same in the same position with part-time hours following time, we promote the development of international parental or home care leave of up to 12 months expertise by transferring employees to temporary when returning to at least a 21-hour contract (or 80% ­positions around the world, and through development of full-time hours for staff members in key functions programmes. As a result, 79% of the participants in and senior executives) the 2019 “Hydrogen” reinsurance talent programme, 50% in the ERGO Leadership Programme and 42% in The proportion of women in management positions in our Group Management Platform are members of Germany rose to 26.2% in 2019 (from 25.9% in 2018), our international organisation. > 56 while the proportion of women in management ­positions worldwide reached a high level of 35.4%. Find more details in our factsheet on equal participation. nationalities work at Munich head quarter Age The active support and promotion of employees at every A global, joint initiative was held at ERGO for the first stage of their professional life is another component time on the occasion of the “World Day for Cultural of our diversity strategy. In addition to flexible, life-­ Diversity” in 2019. At the event, a digital diversity map phase-oriented working time and time-out models was implemented, which offers insights into various such as sabbaticals or the possibility of converting local diversity activities – and this included 42 videos bonuses into leave time, the reinsurance arm of from our foreign companies. 20 international companies ­Munich Re also offers extensive employee assistance from 16 countries participated in this worldwide programmes that support employees in Germany, for ­initiative. ­example, in caring for relatives. In addition, we provide Munich Re _ CR-Report 2019 Corporate Governance Core Business Employees Environment Society Key Figures Indices Annex 54 Since 2012, Munich Re has also been a signatory of the “Charta der Vielfalt” (diversity charter) employer initiative. Further information on other measures, successes and participation in various initiatives can be found on the respective websites of Munich Re, ERGO and MEAG. Since 2012 Munich Re stated in its Group-wide Diversity Policy: For Munich Re, diversity is a business need which promotes the acceptance and value of differences between our employees. This includes not only classic aspects such as gender, religion, age, disabilities, nationality or cultural differences, and sexual orientation, but also inherent characteristics such as experience, education, personality or views. Together, we benefit from those differences in achieving Munich Re’s strategic goals and objectives. Find and nurture talent: Recruiting and Retention > GRI 102-41 Munich Re presents itself to employees and applicants Our attractive human resources approach and appreRecruiting young professionals as a fair and responsible employer, which places value ciative culture of cooperation keeps employment on employee loyalty and job security. In addition to at Munich Re appealing to our employees. This is reDemographic change is a challenge we take seriously. development and support programmes, our approach flected by the fact that the average lengths of service In addition to programmes for the development of ­includes a fair and transparent remuneration system at Munich Re Group and the Reinsurance Company technical experts and managers, Munich Re cooperates and extensive company health management as well are 13.6 years and 14.6 years, respectively. This, and with several universities in Germany and abroad. This as flexible working conditions and time models. the fact that employee turnover currently stands at is aimed at establishing contact with students and just 5.0% overall (5.1% for the previous year) speaks graduates at an early stage to facilitate recruitment. volumes about our high level of employee loyalty. The presence of Munich Re on social media and at Munich Re _ CR-Report 2019 Corporate Governance Core Business Employees Environment Society Key Figures Indices Annex 55 trade fairs with an insurance focus is a one of our priInternational Graduate Trainee Programme The above is informed by the fact that Munich Re wants orities. Our aim is to provide a first-hand and credible ­Reinsurance to establish a culture of open exchange, dialogue and impression of Munich Re as an employer and to In addition to our German Apprenticeship and the support, where success and performance are honestly ­recruit talented academics. combined studies and training programme (AIS) the acknowledged, and personal development and collabo“International Graduate Trainee Programme” is an ration are fostered. In addition, it seeks to ensure that Identifying and developing high-potentials ­important pillar in addressing our reinsurance workimpact and responsibility are clearly focused. Continuforce needs worldwide. ous conversations create clarity on commitments and Trainee programmes for young professionals what it takes to deliver on them. The conversations are Our global graduate trainee programmes systematically The objective of the “International Graduate Trainee also about multidirectional and frequent feedback to promote young high potentials and open up a wide Programme” is to attract new external talents, give ensure that everybody knows where they stand. Anrange of career entry opportunities for university gradthem a new perspective and develop them for a career other key focus of Continuous Conversations is develuates. The target group includes highly talented young in Reinsurance. In 2019 we trained 43 graduate career opment and personal growth. academics with excellent Master’s or PhD degrees entrants in different international locations, each with from top international universities in the subjects of a key focus on a particular business function, such as We reward success: Remuneration and economics, law, mathematics and engineering. in the core area of underwriting: 25 trainees in Munich ­Pension Schemes (19 male & 6 female) and 18 trainees in the International Group Trainee Programme EXPLORE Organisation (8 male & 10 female). The basic salary and additional benefits are important In the course of our two-year EXPLORE programme, components of a fair and motivating corporate culture each trainee is employed at eight different stints in We are proud that in 2019 both the EXPLORE proat Munich Re. As in other areas of our HR policy, the the Group, two of them abroad. Participants work in gramme and the global reinsurance programme were topic of remuneration is regulated by such frameworks all the Group’s business fields during their training recognised ­as a “Fair Trainee Programme”. The as the Group-wide Munich Re remuneration policy. phases at Munich Re, ERGO and MEAG. In addition ­certification was made by the Trendence Institute, in to on-the-job training and courses and seminars on ­cooperation with the Institute for Human Resources management topics, the focus is on personal developManagement at Ludwig Maximilians University (LMU) As part of the redesign of the entire performance ment measures and work on strategic projects. The Munich. management approach, as of 1 January 2020, a global first programme conducted from 2016 to 2018 had ten profit-sharing approach was introduced to replace participants from five nations, six of whom were women. Our way forward: Collaboration, Feedback current, individual variable remuneration. The only releAll the trainees found positions at Munich Re Group and Development vant key figure for the annual bonus for all employees immediately after the programme ended. The second of the reinsurance will be Munich Re Group’s IFRS round of the programme (since 2018) has participants A major focus of our HR work in the reinsurance ­result. Our intention is to strengthen our global focus on from seven different countries, this time five women ­business area during 2019 was on the global redesign consistent cooperation and joint business success. and five men. of performance management and of the remuneration system. So called “Continuous Conversations”, regular discussions on commitment, feedback and development will replace the previous annual performance reviews. This future-oriented approach focuses on ­cooperation throughout the company with the aim of promoting agility and strengthening the autonomy of employees. Munich Re _ CR-Report 2019 Corporate Governance Core Business Employees Environment Society Key Figures Indices Annex 56 Munich Re also offers numerous additional voluntary benefits on top of the basic salary. Our company pension scheme, in particular, plays a major role. It comprises a company pension, additional pension commitments for non-pay-scale employees and managerial staff, and the offer to convert salary components into pension benefits (deferred compensation). Munich Re and ERGO are both members of the ­German insurance employers’ association and consequently bound to the respective ­collective bargaining agreements. Munich Re Group complies with all the statutory requirements for employee co-determination. Stay well: Improving work live balance and healthcare services > GRI 401 Work-life balance is of particular importance for many employees. For this reason, we have set up internal company agreements for individual locations and divisions allowing a better balance between private and professional life. In addition, Munich Re provides ­concrete assistance to families. Among other things, in Germany the Group offers services such as childcare in affiliated nursery facilities, an allowance in the case of privately organised childcare, parent-child ­office spaces, family services, holiday care services and support in caring for family members. Flexible working conditions Munich Re Group offers its employees a wide range in the form of short sabbaticals to allow employees to digitally supported, thus making it possible to work en of models for flexibility in terms of time and location benefit from longer periods away from work. Longer route or at home. A dedicated committee has assumed in their jobs, so much so that our Flexible Working sabbaticals are also possible. In consultation with line the task of discussing the further development of the concept is exemplary in the German reinsurance sector. managers, specific working days and working hours Flexible Working concept and making recommendaBonuses, for example, can be converted into leave time per week can be flexibly defined. These models are tions for its improvement. Munich Re _ CR-Report 2019 Corporate Governance Core Business Employees Environment Society Key Figures Indices Annex 57 Parental leave & career breaks To promote the mental well-being of our employees, we Munich Re attaches particular importance to the imIt is very important for us to retain our employees in the also offer expert counselling at several locations in provement of working conditions for disabled persons. company after parental leave. Information events and Germany to help employees deal with difficulties at The most important measures include considering advice for parents help employees to reconcile work and work or at home. In addition, the reinsurance group short distances from the garage to the workplace, personal interests and allow them to take advantage in ­Munich cooperates with the Fürstenberg Institute special-needs-friendly and requirement-based workof measures for flexible working hours and to choose to offer an Employee Assistance Programme (EAP). place design and equipment, not to mention safe and their place of work (home office). In addition, parents comfortable lifts. DKV Seguros and ERGO Hestia even receive support in caring for their children (places to focus on recruiting disabled employees for specific stay and emergency places such as holiday care) and in positions to promote their long-term integration into questions of caring for relatives. Women in particular RE_charge your energy the labour market. can also take advantage of career coaching to gain clarity on personal issues of work-life balance. Through all these Munich Re is aware of the important role resilience Another focus is the design of our office space and measures, we facilitate re-entry after a career break and and energy management plays in preventing stress-­ work environment for our staff. We constantly optimise support employees on their career path. For its family-­ induced diseases. With this in mind, it offered a our offices for cooperation and to maintain a healthy, oriented personnel policy at its German locations, ERGO wide range of supporting measures under the secure and attractive environment for our employees. has already been awarded the “audit berufundfamilie®” motto “RE_charge your energy” at its headquarters certificate four times since 2002. Further information in Munich in 2019. Employees had the opportunity The voluntary recognition of the principles set down on family-friendly offers can be found on the respective to attend different workshops to increase their in the UN Global Compact and their enshrinement in websites of Munich Re, ERGO and MEAG. ­individual psychological resilience. Relaxation our Code of Conduct underscore our commitment to techniques and the support of resource-oriented, practising a corporate culture characterised by respect Going further for our employees resilient behaviour were at the centre of these and mutual appreciation. Munich Re Group’s support for employee healthcare workshops. On average just under 90% of the by far exceeds statutory requirements. At our Munich provided capacities were used and all workshops 2019 site, for example, not only are medical care, preventative received very good feedback (e.g. about 80% would Employees with access to mobile 70% measures, sports and relaxation programmes ­offered, recommend the training to a colleague). Indepen­ working but there are also individual measures for the reintegradently of these workshops, employees could atEmployees with access to 84% tion of employees following a longer illness-­related break tend individual health check-ups to evaluate their health care services from work, as well as healthcare counselling services. stress level through measuring their heart rate Employees receiving support for staff 76% catering services variability. In addition, Munich Re also installed an At ERGO Deutschland, five company doctors and a online-tool with further information and training. Employees receiving child care services 61% social worker are on hand to help in acute cases and This tool was used by about 750 employees who, Sick leave per employee 4.7% are also available to employees for consultation in on average, used the tool at least twice. Overall the all issues regarding health. This includes prophylactic great popularity of the initiative “RE_charge your Additional relevant key indicator can be found in the examinations, vaccinations, first-aid care and advice energy” shows the importance of such measures in Key Figures section. on addiction and dealing with stress. “ERGO sports” times of fundamental changes of the business world. is one of the most comprehensive company sports Thus, Munich Re plans to continue this program. programmes in Germany. 04_Environment Munich Re _ CR-Report 2019 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 59 Environmental and that meets the requirements of the international DIN ISO 14001 standard. The EMS is based on the ­required and our organisational responsibilities. In 2019, 83% of Group employees worked at sites inteclimate protection Group’s environmental guidelines and on selected key grated into the EMS. In addition, 40% of Group performance indicators (KPIs) that we use to assess ­employees worked at companies externally certified our carbon footprint. It also defines the processes as DIN ISO 14001. at our sites > GRI 103 Environmental guidelines Munich Re Group carbon emissions on an annual basis in a high-­ quality standardised format. Our aim is to steadily The environmental impact of our activities is limited Taking responsibility reduce emissions from energy consumption, as at Munich Re, since our business model is not energywell as from business travel, paper, water and waste. and resource-intensive. However, as a large organisation We comply with national and international environWe also take account of environmental criteria with more than 39,660 employees, we have responsimental regulations and other binding obligations when procuring products and services and meet bilities for environmental protection, and we involve and meet our voluntary commitments to environUN Global Compact criteria when selecting and ourselves in areas where we can have a positive immental protection. In addition, we are committed engaging our service providers. pact. More specifically, our materiality analysis identito the Principles of the United Nations Global Comfied corporate environmental protection and carbon pact, the voluntary commitments of the Principles Promoting staff environmental awareness neutrality as key topics. Our goals and activities related for Sustainable Insurance (PSI) and the Principles to these topics focus on reducing energy consumption for Responsible Investment (PRI). We also take We promote environmental awareness and responand associated carbon emissions, as well as on ensurenvironmental and climate protection into account sibility among all our staff and motivate them ing that business travel is as environmentally friendly as part of our intra-Group commitments (Code ­to engage in active environmental protection and as possible and, not least, improving the resource-­ ­of Conduct, procurement guidelines, company car continually improve our environmental perforefficiency of our processes by generating less waste guidelines). mance. We create transparency and ­support staff and using sustainable materials. In parallel with these initiatives and measures. activities, we continually sensitise our staff on how to Regular assessment and continuous improvebehave in an environmentally compatible manner. ment of our environmental performance Communicating with stakeholders Our environmental management ensures the We communicate openly and regularly to inform Strategic management using the ­control and further development of our environour stakeholders about our environmental activities mental measures. Our aim is to continually imand environmental performance. We seek dia­Environmental Management System prove environmental protection as well as our enlogue, raise awareness and share our knowledge > GRI 103 vironmental performance, and to prevent or reduce of environmental and climate protection, thereby environmental impacts. The effects of our business promoting a general culture of environmental Munich Re Group has coordinated environmental activities are a key indicator for the assessment protection. ­activities at all sites since 2012 using a standardised, of our environmental performance. We calculate mandatory environmental management system (EMS) Munich Re _ CR-Report 2019 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 60 The Board of Management is responsible for the We want to be measured against the implementation Our Environmental Management System and the Group-wide strategy for environmental and climate of our environmental and climate protection commitment of our employees are keeping us on course protection, and for all related measures. The strategy, and orientate ourselves towards the to achieve or exceed our objectives. We met our ­function of Group Environmental Manager is embedfollowing objectives formulated in 2015, which ­carbon reduction target of 35% already in 2017 – with ded in the central Economics, Sustainability & Public we want to achieve by 2020: 39% less carbon emissions and, in 2019, we achieved Affairs division. Our Group Environmental Manager a 44% carbon reduction. In the year under review, controls implementation of the strategy, the EMS and – Reduce carbon emissions by 35% compared to we procured approx. 90% of our electricity requirements coordinates the collection of data. Local environmenthe base year of 2009 (measured in kg of carbon Group-wide from renewable energy sources. And we tal managers at the individual sites are responsible emissions per employee) will renew our environmental and climate protection for meeting environmental targets and realising prostrategy and targets in 2020. grammes associated with them. Their areas of re– Achieve permanent carbon neutrality by taking sponsibility specifically include preparing and imple­compensation projects into account menting carbon reduction plans at the sites and collecting relevant environmental data. Environmen– Convert all electricity procurement to renewable Carbon footprint Munich Re Group tal managers are the direct contacts for employees energy sources kg CO2 per employee for all corporate environmental issues, and also act as advisers to local management. They promote the ac– Increase the percentage of environmentally friendly 5,000 tive exchange of information within the EMS network consumables procured (e.g. paper, catering) and the on best practices, as well as manage communication procurement of environmentally friendly vehicles on environment and climate protection topics. At 4,409 present, local environmental managers at twelve sites – Enhance motivation of employees to behave in an –44% CO2 within the Reinsurance Division, 20 sites in the ERGO environmentally friendly way 4,000 Group, and at one MEAG site all report data to the Group Environmental Manager. – Regularly certify environmental and energy ­management systems at selected sites 2,994 3,000 We have adopted the carbon footprint of our opera2,485 tional activities as the key indicator for assessing our – Verify Group-wide environmental data on an environmental record. Accordingly, we calculate the annual basis annual carbon emissions that result from our con2,000 90% sumption of energy, paper and water, business travel, and waste generation. This is done in a standardised manner conformity with internationally recognised methods and conversion factors, such as the GHG 1,000 Protocol. An external auditing company confirmed electricity from renewables in 2019 2009 2015 2019 that we met the required standards for environmental indicators throughout the Group since 2015. Munich Re _ CR-Report 2019 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 61 Lowering our environmental impact: Higher resource efficiency and falling carbon emissions > GRI 103 We focus on measures that offer maximum leverage in reducing our carbon emissions. These include ­increasing energy efficiency in the operation of our buildings, substituting fossil energy sources with ­renewable energy, reducing business travel and using environmentally friendly consumables. Reduction of energy consumption Munich Re Group has lowered its energy consumption by almost 21% per employee since 2009. And the ­carbon emissions of energy consumption per employee have decreased by more than 53%, mainly by purchasing green electricity. Additionally, energy management systems such as DIN ISO 50001 (e.g. at Munich Re headquarter in Munich) or DIN EN 16247 audited by a third party are in place. ERGO reduces carbon emissions by deleting ­data that is no longer required Bye, bye, bytes – inspired by this motto, ERGO employees from ten countries deleted 9,056 gigabytes of data garbage from their PCs in November 2019 as Modern building technology applied in Dusseldorf Business-Travel part of so-called “Bit-away-days”. Deleting unused data ERGO replaced its cooling units in the spring of 2019. takes up less storage space. This in turn saves elecNew technology along with some minor alterations to Munich Re is a company with an intensive customer tricity used to operate and cool systems – and creates the cooling supply enabled us to use our cogeneration relationship, therefore travel activities are unavoidable. less carbon, which reduces impact on the environment systems even more effectively. Compared to the Since 2009, the average of business travel distance and the climate. Happily, the campaign not only re­previous solution, this saves around 500,000 kilowatt per employee increased slightly by 4%, but the carbon duces the burden on our servers and the environment, hours a year – and generates an even larger amount impact of business travel could be reduced by more but also assists children in need. ERGO donated what of electricity – so ERGO profits both financially and than 23% per employee. One reason is the use of enviit saved on energy costs – a total of around €90,000 – ecologically. ronmentally friendly company cars and carbon neutral to “Save the Children”. rail travel. And we make continuous efforts to electrify the company fleets. Munich Re _ CR-Report 2019 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 62 Preference for sustainable consumables Paper, Water, Waste Paper, water and waste is a relatively minor part of the Group’s carbon footprint – less than five percent. We have reduced water usage by installing efficient equipment and detecting leakage. Additionally, we have raised the percentage of recycled consumables such as ­paper (50% more recycling paper in 2019 compared to 2018) and we foster paperless administration through use of electric files. Climate friendly menu As of October 2019, about 18,000 employees from Munich Re, ERGO and MEAG in Germany have been able to regularly enjoy a “climate-friendly menu” in any of the Group’s canteens in Germany. The menu ­offers regional products which, where possible, are organically produced. Why a climate-friendly menu? It only takes a few facts to make the motivation clear: Agriculture causes 10% of European greenhouse gas emissions. Emissions resulting from the transport and storage of food are also significant. Frozen food comes at the expense of the climate. And the carbon footprint of every food-type can now be calculated. For example, the carbon footprint of beef is extremely Environmentally friendly mobility at ERGO high. Pork and poultry have a footprint that is only a ERGO introduced an Eco and safety driving training for in a needs-oriented manner, that is flexible and susquarter that of beef, and vegetables, of course, have a everyone who drives a company car – and with great tainable. So, for example, we plan to expand car sharmuch smaller footprint still. A lot can be achieved with success: The fleet’s carbon emissions have dropped by ing and to test a shuttle service between ­ERGO’s just a few measures: for example, reducing the amount 20 percent. We also critically examine whether any ­Cologne and Dusseldorf locations. The latter would of meat, sourcing fresh-water fish from local waters, business trip can be replaced by a Skype conference. be similar to the daily shuttle service from ­ERGO-Platz or sourcing organic vegetables with “blemishes” from We recently developed a mobility concept and our to Dusseldorf Airport and, preferably, all-electric. a local start-up. plan is to gradually integrate new mobility services and ­Additionally, we are currently testing an e-vehicle for technologies. It is important to us that our employees use in sales. So far, the feedback has been consistently are able to organize their mobility mix independently, positive. Munich Re _ CR-Report 2019 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 63 As a father, Environmental protection plays an important As a health company, our main mission is to create role in your company. In 2004, you measured its awareness about the close link between environhow could I not be worried? ecological footprint for the first time. What ment and human health. To reach the general consequences have you drawn since then? ­public, we created the Health and Environment The health of human beings and that of the planet Observatory within the DKV Institute of Healthy are closely linked, which is why we first set out Life. In the past ten years, it has been a pioneer to reduce carbon emissions in 2004. Since then in connecting environmental challenges to health we have achieved an 83 percent reduction in our in its studies – such as the impact that plastics, carbon footprint. noise, or air pollution may have on health. In 2007, DKV began to offset emissions that could DKV Seguros has more than 60 branches in not be reduced and, in the process, became a Spain with 780 employees. What can employees ­carbon-neutral company. contribute to environmental protection? We have a network of volunteers called “EKOamigos” A number of measures enabled our 83 percent spread across the different departments. Their ­reduction. Let me highlight the use of recycled goal is to achieve DKV’s objective regarding the paper, the single paper contract for clients, the carbon footprint reduction. In addition, ever since switch of paper publications to digital ones, employ2011, DKV has organized voluntary meetings for ing videoconferencing to avoid traveling, preferring employees and their families to plant trees in order hybrid vehicles for our commercial fleet, and to mitigate the effects of climate change and to ­exclusively purchasing green energy in Spain over preserve biodiversity. the past five years. What do you personally do to protect the Interview with Dr. Josep Santacreu, The latest official data show that our current ­environment and climate? CEO of DKV Seguros, Spain emission level of 482.25 tonnes stems mainly from As a father, how could I not be worried about the business trips, which we could still improve on. planet my three daughters are going to inherit? That is why, when the founder asked me to chair Over 20,000 delegates from all over the world How do you assess the general awareness toand promote the “Plant-for-the-Planet” organisation, ­attended the UN Climate Change Conference at day with regard to climate and environmental I did not hesitate to get involved. It’s my contributhe Exhibition Centre in Madrid, Spain, which is protection? tion to ensuring future generations have the planet coincidentally also one of the countries in Europe Five or six years ago, environmental issues were they deserve. Apart from that, I actively try to most severely affected by climate change. Reason not perceived as serious problems. However, since ­participate in all the environmental activities set enough to ask the long-standing CEO of DKV the Paris Agreement was signed, there has been a in motion by DKV: tree planting, beach cleaning, ­Seguros, Dr. Josep Santacreu, what he thinks about rise in awareness, but there is still a long road to recycling workshops … I also try to be sustainable environmental and climate protection. travel. in my everyday life. Munich Re _ CR-Report 2019 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 64 Environmental and social standards with ­carbon compensation We have been carbon-neutral in our operational activities at Munich Re Group since 2015. We compensate for unavoidable carbon emissions by purchasing carbon certificates and we follow strict requirements when selecting carbon offsetting projects. For example, at least one of the projects must meet the Gold Standard and be implemented in one of the world’s least developed countries. In addition we place a special emphasis on maintaining societal standards. We primarily support projects that promote health, facilitate education, develop local ­infrastructure, avoid deforestation and maintain biodiversity. To achieve carbon neutrality for the 2019 ­financial year, we obtained carbon certificates for the following projects: – Wind farms in the Shandong region in China –  Efficient cooking stoves in Uganda Munich Re engages in a number of local and national climate protection initiatives in ordert o support­ ­efforts for climate change mitigation. These include: – Klimapakt München – Allianz für Entwicklung und Klimaschutz – Wirtschaft macht Klimaschutz 05_Society Munich Re _ CR-Report 2019 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 66 Societal Commitment to people and the ­environment The entrepreneurial support programme can last up to 18 months for each start up – depending on how ­responsibility mature a start-up is. Each start-up receives up to > GRI 103 €95,000 in financial assistance. Workspaces in various locations are also available for use by entrepreneurs. > GRI 103 Our activities focus on three action areas: climate And Munich Re and ERGO are an ideal fit for the change, health, and risk awareness. The projects pre­Climate-KIC Accelerator programme as they have exAs a responsible company, we are committed to public sented below are examples of our Group-wide comtensive expertise in developing solutions aimed at welfare and cohesion within our society. And our mitment to tackling these three action areas. ­adjusting to climate change and in mitigating its con­corporate responsibility strategy forms the basis of sequences. As an additional benefit, young entrepre> 760 our societal commitment. neurs receive coaching and regular mentoring from Munich Re and ERGO staff members. Together with Our chosen fields of action involve issues for which we Climate-KIC, Munich Re and ERGO actively work tocan provide expertise and risk competencies, allowwards sustainability innovation. ing us to have the biggest societal impact possible. organisations supported in 2019 ­Specifically, we focus on three significant global The above approach gives Munich Re and ERGO access challenges: combating climate change and its conseto young businesses, which receive technical and fiquences, improving access to healthcare, and increasResponding to climate change nancial support in return – while society benefits from ing risk awareness. climate-protection solutions. Our engagement in climate protection is concentrated Furthermore, we promote social and cultural projects on the Tackling Climate Change Together (TCCT) initiWe have sponsored 15 start-ups across five different at our sites and provide support for emergency mea­sures ative which is driven by both Munich Re and ERGO. batches of entrepreneurs since 2017. The start-ups following natural disasters. Our employees also make The initiative supports projects that focus on impacting were chosen based on feasibility, innovativeness, team, a significant contribution through corporate volunteerclimate change and sustainable innovation – by conlong-term outlook, scalability, climate impact benefit ing projects – something that we actively promote. tributing experience, expertise and financial assistance. and relevance to Munich Re and ERGO. Our societal commitment is regulated by GroupThe winter batch of 2018/2019 was the biggest to date wide guidelines on donations, sponsoring, memberPromoting start-ups and cleantech solutions with nine start-ups selected for the third and fourth ships and social cooperation agreements. The guideaccelerator phases. They received €190,000 in direct lines include binding principles, consultation and Climate-KIC (Knowledge & Innovation Community) is financial grants from Munich Re and ERGO as well as approval processes, decision criteria and responsibilities the European Union’s largest public-private climate 660 hours individual coaching, workshop hours and for societal contributions. Our Code of Conduct also initiative. It includes a successful accelerator for cleanexpert mentoring. Over the six-month batch period makes reference to these criteria. Each site selects its tech start-ups, which supports young entrepreneurs the start-ups also managed to raise an additional €2m. own projects and allocates its own resources in accor­ who develop businesses focusing on positive climate dance with the guidelines. A standardised, Group-wide impact and sustainability. Munich Re and ERGO run reporting system for social activity expenditures ensures an exclusive Corporate Innovation Programme with the 9 start-ups supported in 2018/2019 transparency for our stakeholders. Additional measurDACH Climate-KIC Accelerator. It was launched in ing and monitoring of the outcome and range of our September 2017 as an agile approach to scouting and 660 hours of coaching and expert mentoring activities helps us to increase the effectiveness of our fostering sustainability solutions that tackle climate €190,000 direct financial grants expenditures. change challenges. Munich Re _ CR-Report 2019 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 67 Examples of the Corporate Innovation ­Programme with Climate-KIC Affordable wind power plants based on kiteKRAFT started as a research project at the GRZ Technologies Ltd. is a renewable energy ­tethered electric aircraft Technical University of Munich. The four co-founders storage company founded in 2017. all have “deep-tech” backgrounds and have made their research findings accessible to the public Using hydrogen for long-term energy storage: through kiteKRAFT products. The performance fluctuations of renewable energy sources pose a challenge for energy storage. The team plans to sell its kite power plants with ­Batteries perform well for short-term storage, but additional services such as repairs, upgrades and an alternative is needed for long-term (seasonal) trainings as of 2020. Together with Munich Re storage of energy. Hydrogen is seen as the solution and ERGO, the founders are developing suitable to the problem. However, the key challenge is insurance solutions for their customers that cover to store hydrogen in a dense, effective and safe risks such as vandalism, damages resulting from manner. malfunction and bad weather, or loss of earnings due to incorrectly forecast energy yields. The hydrogen storage technology GRZ Technologies is the first commercially implemented solution to Online content: More about kiteKRAFT this problem. The core of the new technology is a hydrogen sorption material that enables dense, safe and effective energy storage. It outperforms other kiteKRAFT has developed a power generating kite GRZ Technologies technologies in terms of density and all key peror a “tethered” electric aircraft that flies autonoformance indicators. The specific design of the mously in circles (or figures of eight) in similar system enables an efficient, safe and compact fashion to the blade tips of a conventional wind solution as well as the decentralised storage of turbine rotor. Small onboard turbines on the large quantities of renewable energy. This innovakite generate energy and replace expensive wind tive solution is marketed under the DASH (Dense towers. The kite takes off and lands like a helicopter and Safe Hydrogen Storage) trademark. A pilot by reusing the onboard turbines as propellers. Kite plant is already running and the first orders for power plants such as this hold the potential to two commercial systems have been placed. generate clean and cost-efficient energy and are a more economical alternative than any other wind Online content: More about GRZ Technologies technology. Munich Re _ CR-Report 2019 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 68 Climathon: 24 hours of climate protection treme weather conditions and their potential for deAlps. After the storm Vaia, forest areas in the Partenbrainstorming struction is also communicated by the project, which kirchen area and north of the main Alpine ridge were effectively manages to convey an extremely current badly damaged. Natural reforestation is usually gradual Munich Re and ERGO sponsored Climathons in four topic directly into the heart of schools. Munich Re and can take a long time. Munich Re made donations cities in 2019: Munich, Sydney, Vilnius and Tallinn. supports the further development and dissemination to support the preservation of forest areas and the Under the name “Climathon”, Climate-KIC organizes of the project. ­adaptation of forests to climate change by planting climate protection hackathons worldwide. Global more than 2,100 climate-stable tree species. Stable ­Climathon Day took place in 145 cities around the Reforestation for climate-stabilising forests and species-rich forests make a positive contribution world on 25–26 October 2019. The common goal is to climate protection by storing CO2. to develop local solutions to urgent challenges posed Munich Re supports the afforestation work of the by climate change and to improve the resilience of German Forest Protection Association in the Bavarian cities. Climathon participants have just 24 hours to craft their concepts. Joint teams consisting of students, founders of start-ups, municipal representatives and local business people each worked on different types of challenges tailored to each city’s needs. Nearly 400 people – including Munich Re and ERGO employees, trainees and clients – took part in the events we sponsored in the four cities. All in all, 49 teams worked on coming up with solutions to 11 different challenges. Online content: More about the Climathon Climate education in schools with the “Klimakoffer” A project named “Climate Change: Understanding it and managing it” makes use of a portable experiment kit or suitcase developed at the Faculty of Physics at Ludwig Maximilians University (LMU). The aim of the project is to make the scientific background and consequences of climate change experimentally accessible to schoolchildren. This is done with 14 graphic experiments that demonstrate everything from radiation balance, ­absorption of heat radiation by CO2, and the Albedo ­effect, to the acidification of the oceans and regional effects of climate change. An understanding of tipping points, various feedback processes, exMunich Re _ CR-Report 2019 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 69 Better access to healthcare had no access to medical care can receive treatment there. Since 2004, this programme improved the health Start a four-year partnership to advance cutting-­ of more than 340 children in a sustainable way. The edge cancer studies through research ­collaboration, average cost per case is around €15,000. funding of grants and employee e ­ ngagement. Munich Re Life US entered into a four-year partnership with the American Cancer Society (ACS) amplifying Increasing risk awareness among both organisations’ commitment to saving more lives the population and promoting risk from cancer. As part of the partnership, Munich Re Life US and ACS will collaborate on cancer-related prevention research initiatives involving our respective research and medical teams. In addition, Munich Re Life US Protecting against weather-related landslides will partially fund two critical ACS Research Scholar Grants in the aggregate of $250,000 as well as activate A high level of risk awareness can prevent damage and employee giving by launching nationwide philanthropic minimise danger for a population. For this reason, campaigns and volunteer opportunities. With this ­Munich Re is continually supporting the non-profit orpartnership, Munich Re becomes the first company in ganisation GeoHazards International (GHI) in drawing the reinsurance space to support ACS Research Scholar up and implementing geological safety recommendaGrants. Recipients are early-stage investigators with tions. This means that populations in exposed locations, innovative ideas that are on the cutting edge of science. such as in India, are protected against dangerous landslides thanks to information and training provided to Since 2016, Munich Re has funded a four-year project them. Every year in India, monsoon rains trigger thouthat works to fight tuberculosis in Indonesia. The sands of such incidents. The Munnar region in the state ­project is run by the Global Fund, an international orof Kerala is particularly affected. GHI works with local ganisation supporting the fight against AIDS, tubergovernment agencies on a range of different measures, culosis and malaria, and the objective is to reduce the for example, in identifying both quick and long-term mortality rate and break the chain of infection. Quick ways to protect people from landslides. Additionally, tests that can detect bacterial resistance play a key improvement of the common methods of construction role, as does the strengthening of healthcare systems. in hilly areas and changes to underlying policies can protect people from further landslides. Along with other DKV Seguros demonstrates its commitment to corsources, the basis for this work is the Landslide Safety porate responsibility as a founding member of the Action Plan that GHI developed with the support of Cuidam programme, which provides healthcare for Munich Re in Aizawl between 2012 and 2016. It was needy children worldwide. Children from Africa, South held up as an example by the Indian ­National Disaster America, Asia and Eastern Europe who previously Management Authority for other ­regions to follow. Munich Re _ CR-Report 2019 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 70 Disaster Relief –  Following floods and heavy rain in Nepal in July 2019, After devastating floods in South Sudan, Munich Re –  Munich Re enabled 222 households to be provided funded the distribution of packs of 200 chlorine Rapid disaster relief for people in need with NFI (Non-Food Item) kits by Save the Children, tablets by Save the Children. With this help 200 of which contained, among other things, such necesthe most vulnerable families were able to purify For many years, Munich Re has provided financial sities as kitchen utensils, baby supplies and mostheir water for safe drinking and to reduce the risk support for emergency aid measures and reconstruction quito nets. of cholera and other waterborne diseases. projects following natural disasters. To this end, we work closely with and support the aid organisation – When the North Indian state of Assam experienced Save the Children. Munich Re set up a formal partnersevere floods during the second half of 2019, Save ship with Save the Children in 2019. the Children delivered 345 hygiene kits to affected households with the support of Munich Re. More specifically, during the 2019 reporting year, Munich Re supported the following projects in connection with disaster relief: – Aid measures by Save the Children following the devastating tropical cyclones which hit Mozambique in April 2019. About 2,312 individuals were assisted with healthcare, hygiene products, food and education and, in order to increase the safety of children, 300 people were trained in different child protecCopyright © Save the Children tion topics. – Immediate aid for the Indian population affected by cyclone Fani: On behalf of Munich Re, Save the Children distributed 258 food baskets to families in extreme need right after the disaster hit. Munich Re _ CR-Report 2019 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 71 Further engagement in disaster relief Employee Engagement kilos collected, the company donated €14,000 to non-­ profit organisations that work to protect and clean – Aid measures by the International Federation of We also show our commitment to numerous social, beaches. Red Cross and Crescent Societies (IFRC) to mitigate cultural and ecological projects at our different sites the consequences of Hurricane Dorian on the through corporate volunteering. Many of the initia­Bahamas: ­Munich Re took part in a cash-campaign, tives are the result of ideas from our employees and in which families received $810 each in addition are driven by them. For example, Munich Re Munich to the conventional aid measures from the Red Cross. supports its employees’ voluntary work meaning that The aim was to enable local families to rebuild deit also contributes to the time given by its employees. stroyed houses and to resume income-generating As a result, when employees use their own annual activities (e.g. fishing and other small businesses). leave for volunteering, they can receive up to two extra days of holiday per year. The internal Schinzler – Munich Re donated to the refugee camp in Cox’s ­Foundation supports our employees’ voluntary work Bazar, Bangladesh, which is regularly impacted by by giving grants to various projects. monsoons. 11,000 hours of voluntary engagement in 2019 The Schinzler Foundation also initiated the “Wish Tree Campaign” in 2019: Many employees took part in this joint Christmas project in favour of needy children and young people from social institutions in and around Munich. In total, our employees fulfilled a Christmas wish for 525 children and adolescents. Other examples show the commitment of our employees worldwide. For instance, DKV Seguros arranges a “Marcha Solidaria” in the interests of the community every year. In October 2019, 688 volunteers – along with employees and family members of DKV Seguros as well as customers – collected rubbish on beaches and in forests. This campaign collected 950 kilos of garbage. Based on the sum of kilometres covered and Munich Re _ CR-Report 2019 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 72 Foundations take on responsibility worldwide distribution of wealth – also in more or less rich The Dr. Hans-Jürgen Schinzler Foundation cities such as, e.g. Munich. In 2020, the guiding is dedicated to promoting volunteer work carried The corporate responsibility of the Munich Re theme is “Climate change, climate protection – out by ­Munich Re employees, particularly as part Group is supplemented and complemented effecis there still hope?”. Debates revolve around the of the “Social Days” scheme. tively by the work of five different foundations: impact of climate change, also highlighting ­mitigation options. For 15 years, together with the The ERGO Youth & Future Foundation The Munich Re Foundation – From Knowledge Microinsurance Network (MIN), the Munich Re helps disadvantaged young people to success­ to Action Foundation has organised the world’s largest fully shape their own future careers. ­conference related to inclusive insurance (“Micro­ Munich Re Group concerns itself with facing the insurance”). Experts from some 60 countries The DKV Seguros “Integralia” Foundation great challenges of the world today: population ­discuss how insurance solutions can succeed for promotes the social and professional integration growth, globalisation, diminishing resources, enimpoverished people in developing countries and of people with physical disabilities in Spain. vironmental pollution and climate change. The emerging nations. An additional focus point of the ­Munich Re Foundation aims to identify risks, work conference is climate risk insurance. In a project The ERGO Hestia “Integralia” Foundation to counteract them and help to overcome them. stream called RISK Award the Munich Re Foundamakes it easier for people with disabilities in Poland As critical thinkers and reliable partners, the tion promotes the implementation of warning to take their first step onto the career ladder and Foundation can stake a claim to finding long-term ­systems tailored to the needs of the people at risk. aims to encourage other employers to do the same. ­solutions. The objective is to prepare people Furthermore, the foundation funds water generafor risks and to improve their living conditions. tion projects in arid regions. It is also a mission of the foundation to share its expertise on climate By holding regular public discussion forums on change, sustain­ability, justice, ecological changes, ­societal challenges, the Foundation aims to social vulnerability and resilience with school­ ­address issues and challenges that are currently children, students and decision makers, as well as being faced around the globe. The topic for 2019 policy makers. was “Poor rich world”, with a focus on the global All key data for the Society section can be found in the table beginning on page 73. 06_Key figures, Indices, Annex Munich Re _ CR-Report 2019 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 74 Financial indicators To calculate the Group-wide carbon savings targets, local power mix for the conversion to carbon emissions. from 2009 to 2015 (–10%, kg of CO2 per employee), we The VfU conversion factors are taken as the basis for Online content: Find all information about our financial used the conversion factors of the Greenhouse Gas calculating the Scope 2 emissions “district heating” figures on our corporate website Protocol (GHGP) and the Association for Environmental and the Scope 3 emissions from paper, water and waste, Management and Sustainability in Financial Instituas well as the “taxis, hire cars, train journeys” compoTaxes on income by region tions (VfU) – from 2011 in each case. Green electricity nents of the “business trips” element. Business trips with was not included in the accounting, thereby ensuring company cars are calculated with individual factors Region Unit Taxes on income 2019 Taxes on income 2018 that the quantitative values remained comparable over for the fleet in question, assuming they are available. North America €m 188 162 the target period. In 2015, a new environmental and If not, the VFU conversion factor is used. Asia Pacific €m 11 20 climate protection strategy was approved by the Board Europe €m 277 388 of Management and the CO2 savings target was exSources of CO2 emissions: panded – from 2009 to 2020 we want to achieve Group-­ Other* €m 6 6 wide CO2 savings (kg per employee) of 35%. The figures – Scope 1: Direct emissions from primary energy Total €m 482 576 from 2017 to 2019 are only comparable to a limited ­consumption (natural gas, heating oil, emergency * Other includes no country with more than 10% of taxes on income. extent with the 2009 figures. This is because different diesel power), fuel for company cars), conversion factors are used for the calculation of carbon emissions, and due to differences in the calcu– Scope 2: Indirect emissions from procured energy Environmental indicators lation of carbon emissions from renewable energy. (purchase of electricity and district heat), From 2016, the Group’s carbon emissions is calculated A key component of our Group-wide environmental using the latest conversion factors from the GHG – Scope 3: Other indirect emissions (business trips, and climate protection strategy is the continuous ­Protocol and the VfU. We use the GHG Protocol for consumption of paper and water, waste). reduction of our consumption of resources and our the conversion of Scope 1 emissions (direct energy), for resulting CO2 emissions. electricity falling under Scope 2 emissions (indirect energy), and for the “shortand long-haul flights” In our reporting on our consumption of resources and ­components of the “business trips” element of Scope 3 CO2 emissions, we focus on the main direct impacts emissions. The Group-wide share of electricity from of our business operations on the environment and regenerative sources of 90%** (2018: 86%) is calcuclimate. These are the consumption of paper, energy lated with 0 emissions. A market-based approach is and water, the waste we produce and the number of used to calculate the Scope 2 emissions resulting from business trips we make. The resulting CO2 emissions electricity consumption, taking into account the fact are measured and externally quality assured. The that a share of 90%** was derived from regenerative continuous reduction in these emissions is the main energy sources and calculated as emission-free. For indicator of success for our environmental perforthe remaining electricity consumption, country-specific mance and has been achieved throughout the Group. conversion factors we use that derive from the average ** Selected quantitative environmental indicators are verified Group-wide by an external ­auditing company. Munich Re _ CR-Report 2019 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 75 General information Unit 2019 2018 2017 2009 Scope 3 Unit 2019** 2018 2017 2009 (base year) (base year) Munich Re Group employees Number of 39,662 41,410 42,410 47,249 Other indirect CO2 emissions Metric tonnes (t) 27,144 25,581 25,563 33,352 as at 31.12.2019 employees (water, waste, paper, travel) Metric tonnes (t)/ 0.68 0.62 0.6 0.71 employee Gross premiums written €bn 51.5 49.1 49.1 41.4 Munich Re Group Energy Unit 2019 2018 2017 2009 Proportion of employees captured by % employee 83** 83 83 84 (base year) the environmental data collection Total energy consumption MWh total 360,897** 383,101 408,334 543,365 (Scope 1 and 2) Proportion of employees who were % employee 100** 100 100 no data MWh/employee 9.10** 9.25 9.63 11.50 verified by a third party Percentage of total electricity Share in % 90** 86 78 28 Proportion of employees captured % employee 40** 38 38 no data consumption from green electricity by an environmental system certified to ISO 14001 CO2 emissions from energy Metric tonnes (t) 71,249** 77,443 87,714 183,408 (Scope 2 marked-based) Metric tonnes (t)/ 1.80** 1.87 2.07 3.88 Total CO2 emissions Munich Re Group Metric tonnes (t) 98,393** 103,024 113,278 217,315 employee Metric tonnes (t)/ 2.48** 2.49 2.67 4.40 employee Energy intensity MWh/€m gross 6.2 7.80 8.32 13.14 premiums written CO2 savings per employee since 2009 % employee 44 44 39 (kg CO2) Energy consumption by type Unit 2019 2018 2017 2009 (base year) CO2 intensity Metric tonnes (t) 1.91 2.10 2.31 5.25 CO2/€m gross premiums written – Liquid fuel MWh 665 742 956 573 Munich Re Group Natural gas MWh 158,778 164,644 169,484 194,718 Scope 1 Unit 2019** 2018 2017 2009 Thereof natural gas for cogeneration MWh 134,970 138,300 140,332 65,715 (base year) Direct energy consumption MWh total 159,443 165,385 170,440 195,291 On-site energy generation MWh 131,395 111,055 114,369 0 MWh/employee 4.0 3.99 4.02 4.13 Total electricity consumption MWh 125,839 133,518 142,372 236,939 CO2 emissions from direct Metric tonnes (t) total 44,023 45,730 47,880 65,932 Thereof electricity consumption from MWh 112,664 114,825 115,730 66,343 energy consumption Metric tonnes (t)/ 1.11 1.10 1.13 1.4 renewable sources employee District cooling MWh 8,047 9,481 10,888 12,998 Scope 21 Unit 2019** 2018 2017 2009 (base year) District heating MWh 67,569 74,448 84,633 98,136 Indirect energy consumption MWh total 201,455 217,714 237,893 348,885 MWh/employee 5.10 5.26 5.61 7.38 CO2 emissions from indirect energy Metric tonnes (t) 27,226 31,713 39,834 117,476 consumption (market-based) Metric tonnes (t)/ 0.69 0.77 0.94 2.49 employee CO2 emissions from indirect energy Metric tonnes (t) 63,813 68,237 79,426 consumption (location-based) Metric tonnes (t)/ 1.61 1.65 1.87 employee 1 Green electricity is considered for the first time in 2016. Munich Re _ CR-Report 2019 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 76 Paper Unit 2019 2018 2017 2009 Waste Unit 2019 20183 2017 2009 (base year) (base year) Paper consumption Metric tonnes (t) 1,134** 1,200 1,214 2,366 Waste generation Metric tonnes (t) 9,870** 10,864 11,592 14,054 Metric tonnes (t)/ 0.03** 0.03 0.03 0.05 Metric tonnes (t)/ 0.25** 0.26 0.27 0.30 employee employee Recycled paper Share in % 33 20 35 17 Waste for incineration hazardous Metric tonnes (t) 5 5 21 26 CO2 emissions from paper Metric tonnes (t) 1,339** 1,415 1,433 2,839 Waste for incineration non-hazardous Metric tonnes (t) 1,613 2,060 2,601 2,472 Metric tonnes (t)/ 0.03** 0.03 0.03 0.06 employee Recycled waste hazardous Metric tonnes (t) 78 55 81 25 Paper intensity Metric tonnes 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.06 Recycled waste non-hazardous Metric tonnes (t) 5,353 6,160 6,299 8,796 (t)/€m gross premiums written Waste to landfill hazardous Metric tonnes (t) 17 0 0 13 Water Unit 2019 2018 2017 2009 Waste to landfill non-hazardous Metric tonnes (t) 843 803 1,071 1,176 (base year) Organic waste Metric tonnes (t) 1.323 1.118 1.151 1.032 Water consumption Cubic metres (m3) 665,766** 658,217 676,510 859,181 Cubic metre (m3)/ 17** 16 16 18.2 Other waste not specified Metric tonnes (t) 519 467 315 350 employee Special waste treatment Metric tonnes (t) 118 196 54,3 165 CO2 emissions from water Metric tonnes (t) 466** 460 473 639 CO2 emissions from waste Metric tonnes (t) 2,666** 2,777 2,771 2,895 Metric tonnes (t)/ 0.012** 0.011 0.011 0.014 employee Metric tonnes (t)/ 0.07** 0.07 0.07 0.06 employee Water intensity Cubic metres 12.9 13.4 13.8 20.7 (m3)/€m gross Waste intensity Metric tonnes 0.05 0.22 0.24 0.34 premiums written (t)/€m gross premiums written Business trips Unit 2019 2018 2017 2009 3 Data for waste have been modified for 2018 due to adjustment of data calculation. (base year) Business trips Kilometres (km) 304,395,351** 291,670,161 296,208,905 350,167,683 Kilometres (km)/ 7,675** 7,043 6,984 7,411 employee Air travel Kilometres (km) 192,476,667** 177,945,204 175,985,436 189,257,132 Road or rail travel2 Kilometres (km) 111,918,684** 113,724,957 120,223,469 160,910,551 CO2 emissions from business travel Metric tonnes (t) 34,363** 33,111 34,186 53,195 Metric tonnes (t)/ 0.87** 0.80 0.81 1.13 employee Business travel intensity Kilometres (km)/€m 5,911 5,940 6,033 8,453 gross premiums written 2 The figure for the year 2017 has been adjusted because of an internal change to the sub-categories for business trips. Munich Re _ CR-Report 2019 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 77 Staff indicators 2019 2018 2017 2019 2018 2017 Staff (abs.) 39,662 41,410 42,410 Salaried employees Full-time (abs.) – female 14,471 15,016 15,280 Part-time (abs.) – female 5,707 6,355 6,679 Employees by field of business Reinsurance 31.2% 29.8% 28.6% Total (abs.) – female 20,178 21,371 21,959 Primary insurance 68.8% 70.2% 71.4% Full-time (abs.) – male 17,235 17,721 18,031 Group staff by region Germany 47.4% 46.3% 47.1% Part-time (abs.) – male 1,028 1,190 1,179 Rest of Europe 37.7% 37.5% 35.6% Total (abs.) – male 18,263 18,911 19,210 North America 13.3% 12.4% 12.1% Full-time (abs.) 31,706 32,737 33,311 Asia and Australasia 2.7% 2.5% 2.4% Part-time (abs.) 6,735 7,545 7,858 Africa and Middle East 0.5% 0.6% 0.6% Total (abs.) 38,441 40,282 41,169 Latin America 0.4% 0.4% 0.4% Sick leave 4.7% 4.8% 4.7% Percentage of female employees Female employees 53.1% 53.9% 54.5% Employees with access to medical care 78.5% – – Women in managerial 35.4% 35.7% 33.5% (doctor, health insurance)4 positions Employees with access to health 84% – – Group staff by age 20 or younger 0.2% 0.3% 0.3% services (e.g. vaccination, health check)4 21–25 4.1% 3.9% 3.5% Staff turnover 4 Turnover rate 12.3% 11.7% 15.1% 26–30 8.3% 8.8% 9.2% Voluntary fluctuation 5.0% 5.1% 5.7% 31–35 12.2% 13.3% 13.7% Lay-offs (abs.) 523 453 744 36–40 13.8% 14.1% 14.0% 41–45 14.0% 14.0% 14.0% Open positions filled 31.7% 4 32.6% 5 17.1%4 by internal candidates 46–50 15.5% 16.0% 16.7% 51–55 16.0% 15.4% 15.1% Length of service Years (Ø) 13.7 13.3 13.0 56–60 11.2% 10.1% 9,5% Further education Cost per employee (€) 836.04 930.15 9445 over 60 4.6% 4,1% 4.0% No. of days’ training 4.84 3.15 3.05 per staff member (Ø) No. of staff by type of employment Permanent employment 95.1% 94.6% 93.4% contract Employees with at least one 91.7% Temporary employment 4.9% 5.4% 6.6% – – training4 Employees with at least one 74.6% – – online training5 Munich Re _ CR-Report 2019 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 78 Staff indicators Social impact (SI) indicators 2019 2018 2017 2019 2018 2017 No. of training courses per Digitalisation and Innovation 1.1 – – Employees coverage 99.6% 99.3% 99.8% employee by category5 Environment 0.1 – – Total SI expenses 8,800,999 €8 8,397,389 € 8,771,058 € Risk awareness 1.1 – – Expertise 1,1 – – Share of pre-tax profit 0.28%8 0.23% 0.43% Social competence 0.4 – – Language training 0.8 – – Other training 0.4 – – Details of social impact expenses in € – – Employees with flexible working hours4 81% 2019 2018 2017 – – Employees with access to mobile 70% Activities at our locations9 1,930,506 2,094,066 2,118,201 working4 – – Social impact projects that pay into the three global challenges9 3,039,208 3,043,696 3,077,110 Employees with access to sabbatical 67% 1. Combating the effects of climate change or add. leave days4 2. Improving access to healthcare – – 3. Enhancing risk awareness Employees with financial support 76% for staff catering4 Disaster relief9 195,843 147,250 98,509 – – Employees with access to child care 61% Donations in kind, sponsorships in kind 185,171 71,021 24,761 services4 Political donations 173,980 173,100 170,500 Employees receiving regular 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% performance and career development reviews4 Corporate volunteering 1,016,276 796,701 862,997 Employees covered by 99.6% 96% 96% ERGO foundations 561,1298 506,562 594,677 collective bargaining agreements6 Munich Re foundations 1,698,886 1,564,992 1,735,002 Pay ratio7 22 24 23 Regional classification 20199 2019 2018 2017 4 Coverage Munich Re Group: ≥ 90% 5 Coverage Munich Re Group: ≥ 50%. Germany 1,834,803 2,006,873 1,931,773 6 Proportion of employees captured: Munich Re Group Germany ~50% of Munich Re Group . 7 Pay ratio: The average target overall direct remuneration of all members of the Board of Management was 22 (24) times the average target overall direct remuneration of all employees (excluding the Board of Management) Europe (excluding Germany) 826,188 971,576 1,122,154 North America 2,250,933 2,055,554 1,935,514 Latin America 11,624 8,083 6,125 Australia/New Zealand 149,895 168,971 228,941 Africa 45,944 54,177 67,646 Asia 46,169 19,779 1,694 8 The reporting of the payments for ERGO foundations could not be finalised by the end of the editorial deadline. 9 This amount comprises donations (not including donations in kind or political donations) from social sponsorships (not including sponsorships in kind) and corporate responsibility memberships. Munich Re _ CR-Report 2019 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 79 Expenses for lobbying in € – not part of social impact expenses As part of its lobbying activities, Munich Re Group engages in a continuous ­exchange with a wide range of organisations of which it is a member. The ­following table shows a selection of the institutions of greatest Group-wide strategic importance that are active across sectors and/or (also) international in scope. Association/Organisation Membership fees 2019 Membership fees 2018 Membership fees 2017 Association of German Insurers (GDV) 3,000,000 3,000,000 3,000,000 Geneva Association 170,000 160,000 140,000 The European Insurance CFO Forum ­ 70,000 40,000 90,000 (CFO Forum) Chief Risk Officer Forum 30,000 30,000 30,000 The Insurance Europe Reinsurance 15,000 15,000 15,000 Advisory Board (RAB) Munich Re _ CR-Report 2019 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 80 GRI content index GRI standard Reference Comments/Omission UNGC principle > GRI 102-55 GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement p. 10 GRI standard Reference Comments/Omission UNGC principle 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised p. 11 GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated p. 3 ­financial statements 102-1 Name of the organisation p. 5 102-46 Defining report content and p. 11 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services p. 5 topic ­boundaries 102-3 Location of headquarters p. 5 102-47 List of material topics p. 11 102-4 Location of operations p. 5 102-48 Restatements of information Where previously published information needed to be updated, this has been indicated in the 102-5 Ownership and legal form p. 5 relevant places. 102-6 Markets served p. 5 102-49 Changes in reporting p. 11 102-7 Scale of the organisation p. 5 102-50 Reporting period p. 3 102-8 Information on employees and p. 77 102-51 Date of most recent report 24 May 2019 other workers 102-52 Reporting cycle p. 3 102-9 Supply chain p .5 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding p. 3, p. 87 102-10 Significant changes to the organisation No significant changes in the year the report and its supply chain under review. 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with p. 3 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach p.7, p.13 the GRI standards 102-12 External initiatives p.19 102-55 GRI content index p. 80 102-13 Membership of associations p.17 102-56 External assurance p. 85 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker p.4 GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016 102-16 Values, principles, standards, p.7, p. 12, p. 13 103-1/-2/-3 Management approach p. 29, p. 34 and norms of behaviour 201-1 Direct economic value generated and corporate website 102-18 Governance structure p.12, p.13 ­distributed p. 80 102-40 List of stakeholder groups p. 10 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and p.29, p. 34 opportunities due to climate change 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements p. 77 201-4 Financial assistance received To the best of our knowledge, 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders p. 10 from government Munich Re received no financial ­support from the state. Munich Re _ CR-Report 2019 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 81 GRI standard Reference Comments/Omission UNGC GRI standard Reference Comments/Omission UNGC principle principle GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts 2016 GRI 305: Emissions 2016 103-1/-2/-3 Management approach p. 22, p. 29, p 34, 103-1/-2/-3 Management approach p. 59, p. 61 p. 41, p. 44 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions p. 74 GC 7, 8 203-1 Infrastructure investments and p. 22, p. 29, p. 34, services supported p. 41, p. 44 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions p. 74 GC 7, 8 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts p. 22, p. 29, p. 34, 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions p. 74 GC 7, 8 p. 41, p. 44 305-4 GHG emissions intensity p. 74 GC 8 GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions p. 74 GC 8, 9 103-1/-2/-3 Management approach p. 12 GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016 205-2 Communication and training about p. 14 GC 10 ­anti-corruption policies and procedures 103-1/-2/-3 Management approach p. 59, p. 61 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and In the 2019 reporting year, our GC 10 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method p. 74 GC 8 ­actions taken ­compliance reporting recorded no breaches of anti-corruption ­legislation or corresponding official GRI 307: Environmental Compliance 2016 p ­ roceedings, anywhere in the world. 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws No instances of non-compliance GC 8 GRI 206: Anti-competitive behavior 2016 and regulations were identified in the 2019 financial year. 103-1/-2/-3 Management approach p. 12 GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment 2016 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, No fines were imposed upon anti-trust, and monopoly practices Munich Re Group in the period 103-1/-2/-3 Management approach p. 12 under review. 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using 100% GC 8 GRI 302: Energy 2016 environmental criteria 103-1/-2/-3 Management approach p. 59, p. 61 GRI 401: Employment 2016 302-1 Energy consumption within the p. 74 GC 7, 8 103-1/-2/-3 Management approach p. 49, p. 50 ­organisation 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover p. 77 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the p. 74 GC 8 ­organisation GRI 404: Training and Education 2016 302-3 Energy intensity p. 74 GC 8 103-1/-2/-3 Management approach p. 49, p. 50 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption p. 74 GC 8, 9 404-1 Average hours of training per year p. 77 GC 6 per employee 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements p. 74 GC 8, 9 of products and services 404-2 Programmes for upgrading employee skills p. 50 and transition assistance programmes 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving p. 77 GC 6 regular performance and career development reviews Munich Re _ CR-Report 2019 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 82 GRI standard Reference Comments/Omission UNGC GRI standard Reference Comments/Omission UNGC principle principle GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016 GRI 412: Human Rights Assesment 2016 103-1/-2/-3 Management approach p. 49, p. 50 103-1/-2/-3 Management approach p. 12 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and p. 77, p. 52 GC 6 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies p. 19 GC 1 employees or procedures GRI 406: Non-discrimination 2016 412-3 Significant investment agreements p. 16 GC 2 and contracts that include human rights 103-1/-2/-3 Management approach p. 49, p. 50 clauses or that underwent human rights screening 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and One discrimination incident was GC 6 corrective actions taken ­investigated at Home Office in the GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 2016 2019 financial year. The allegations could not be confirmed. In addition, 103-1/-2/-3 Management approach p. 12 the training course on the German General Equal Treatment Act (AGG – 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using 100% GC 2 Allgemeines Gleichbehandlungs­ ­social criteria gesetz) is being updated on the topic of #metoo to help foster awareness. GRI 415: Public Policy 2016 GRI 407: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 2016 103-1/-2/-3 Management approach p. 17 103-1/-2/-3 Management approach p. 12 415-1 Political contributions p. 78, p. 18 GC 10 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right To the best of our knowledge, no GC 3 GRI 417: Marketing and Labelling 2016 to freedom of association and collective operating sites or suppliers were bargaining may be at risk identified in the period under 103-1/-2/-3 Management approach p. 28 ­review at which the right to freedom of association and collective 417-1 Requirements for product and service p. 28 ­bargaining could be at risk. information and labelling GRI 408: Child labour 2016 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning No incidents relevant to the Group marketing communications of non-compliance with regulations 103-1/-2/-3 Management approach p. 12 or voluntary codes of conduct ­concerning marketing and commu408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk To the best of our knowledge, GC 5 nications – or of fines, sanctions for incidents of child labour in the period under review no or warnings – were identified in the ­operating sites or suppliers were period under review. identified as being at significant risk of incidents of child labour. GRI 418: Customer Privacy 2016 GRI 409: Forced or Compulsory Labour 2016 103-1/-2/-3 Management approach p. 14 103-1/-2/-3 Management approach p. 12 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning In the 2019 reporting year, no material ­breaches of customer privacy and losses data protection event defined in the 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant To the best of our knowledge, in the GC 4 of customer data Solvency II Group Compliance Policy risk for incidents of forced or compulsory period under review no operating occurred anywhere in our Group labour sites or suppliers were identified as worldwide, nor were any material being at significant risk of incidents proceedings for breach of data of forced or compulsory labour. ­protection rules initiated. GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance 2016 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations No instances of substantial fines or in the social and economic area non-­monetary sanctions being ­imposed on Munich Re by state agencies were identified in the period under review. Munich Re _ CR-Report 2019 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 83 SRI ratings & indices Open and transparent dialogue with our stakeholders in Germany and abroad on our commitment to corporate responsibility and socially responsible investment (SRI) is an essential part of our corporate culture. The inclusion of Munich Re Group in numerous sustainability indices and our good to very good performance in many different SRI ratings are proof that we are on the right track: – Listed in the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices (Europe and World) since 2001 – Listed within DAX 50 ESG of Deutsche Börse – benchmark index with ESG focus contains top 50 companies of German stock market – Listed in the FTSE4Good Index since 2001 – Listed in the following indices: Euronext Vigeo World 120, Euronext Vigeo Europe 120 and Euronext Vigeo Eurozone 120 – Listed in the Ethibel Sustainability Index (ESI) Excellence Europe and the ESI Excellence Global – Listed in the following indices: ECPI Global Ethical, ECPI World ESG Equity and ECPI Global Climate Change Equity – Listed in the STOXX Global ESG Leaders index – MSCI ESG Rating of “AA” – Prime status per ISS ESG rating – Industry leader of peers (Market cap $33–$37bn) in Sustainalytics’ industry rating Updated 31 December 2019 Munich Re _ CR-Report 2019 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 84 Principles for Responsible Investment – No. Principle Examples of measures Investing responsibly 2 “We will be active owners and ­incorporate ESG issues into our Before taking part in an Annual General Meeting, MEAG checks the ­following topic areas to ensure its investors’ interests are represented a­ s ob­ownership policies and practices.” jectively and comprehensively as possible: Active investor – Board of Management and Supervisory Board. – Appointment of the external auditor At Munich Re, responsible management has uppermost priority, not least with a – Capital measures view to operating profitably. Our asset management therefore follows the United – Appropriation of profits: – Mergers and acquisitions Nations Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI). We helped to draw up these – Corporate Governance Code and best practice principles and were the first German company to sign them. MEAG supports the companies with measures that have a long-term, ­positive effect on business development or a business model, and will vote against measures that would have a negative impact on the Group. A holistic investment strategy aligned with ESG (environmental, social, governance) This ­extends to social, ethical and environment-related targets/aspects criteria also has a long-term beneficial effect on risk and return. That is why, on of corporate governance. 27 April 2006, we were one of the first signatories to the United Nations Principles If it is not possible to participate in person, the fund management for Responsible Investment (PRI), which we played a prominent role in drafting. either nominates a proxy or casts an electronic vote itself using a proxy voting platform. Behind these principles is the view that investment decisions often take insufficient account of the need for sustainable development and thus the needs of future 3 “We will seek appropriate disclosure on ESG issues by the entities in which We communicate our investment criteria openly and address these in ­dialogue with the companies we work with. generations. we invest.” Sustainability disclosure Our aim here is to motivate companies to improve their ESG rating or achieve a positive ESG rating for the first time. Munich Re is thereby Principles and recommendations for action for investment decisions ­contributing to companies keeping a closer eye on ESG criteria. 4 “We will promote acceptance and We communicate and highlight our principles through publications in the Six principles are described more closely in a list of 35 recommendations for ­implementation of the principles within media and by participating in presentations and conferences on sustainability. the investment industry.” action. These enable institutional investors to take account of ecological and Patron of PRI With individual funds and activities; we show how responsible management can be put into practice: social aspects, together with topics related to good corporate governance, in – Investments in infrastructure with a focus on renewable energies their investment decisions. Munich Re is committed to fulfilling the PRI in an – MEAG Nachhaltigkeit – MEAG EM Rent Nachhaltigkeit: appropriate and forward-looking manner. – MEAG FairReturn 5 “We will work together to enhance Through its PRI membership, Munich Re contributes to the continued our effectiveness in implementing ­development and propagation of the principles. The following examples show how Munich Re is putting the six the principles.” Cooperation to realise the PRI We are driving forward the exchange of experience with other PRI members UN principles into practice: in Germany and around the world. 6 “We will each report on our activities We participate in the annual PRI Survey. In the Strategy and Governance No. Principle Examples of measures and progress in implementing the module of the current PRI assessment, Munich Re was awarded the highest ­principles.” rating of A+ for 2019. Munich Re also answered questions for the asset 1 “We will incorporate ESG issues We are pursuing the ESG integration approach in the investment process. Reporting activities and progress class fixed income. A good “B” rating was awarded in all four individual into investment analysis and decisionThis means that we use ESG factors as an additional source of information. ­relevant to PRI modules pertaining to this asset class. making processes.” This holistic approach leads to better investment decisions and improves Sustainable investment process the portfolio’s risk/return profile. We report on the PRI and our activities relating to it (such as reports and ESG analyst discussions). Munich Re takes part in ESG ratings and factors the appraisals into ­corporate decision-making. Munich Re _ CR-Report 2019 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 85 Independent trols that they have considered necessary to enable the preparation of a report that is free from material This Standard requires that we plan and perform the assurance engagement to obtain limited assurance ­Auditor’s Limited misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. about whether the information marked with the symbol ** in the report has been prepared, in all material Auditor’s declaration relating to independence respects, in accordance with the relevant reporting Assurance Report and quality control criteria. In a limited assurance engagement the assurance procedures are less in extent than for a reasonable We are independent from the Company in accordance assurance engagement and therefore a substantially > GRI 102-56 with the provisions under German commercial law lower level of assurance is obtained. The assurance and professional requirements, and we have fulfilled procedures selected depend on the auditor’s profesTo Münchener Rückversicherungs-Gesellschaft our other professional responsibilities in accordance sional judgment. Aktiengesellschaft in München, Munich with these requirements. Within the scope of our assurance engagement, which We have performed a limited assurance engagement Our audit firm applies the national statutory regulahas been conducted between March and May 2020, on the disclosures marked with the symbol ** in the tions and professional pronouncements for quality we performed amongst others the following assurance Corporate Responsibility Report of Münchener Rück­ control, in particular the by-laws regulating the rights and other procedures: ver­sicherungs-Gesellschaft Aktiengesellschaft in and duties of Wirtschaftsprüfer and vereidigte BuchMünchen for the reporting period from 1 January 2019 prüfer in the exercise of their profession [Berufssatzung – Inquiries of employees regarding the sustainability to 31 December 2019 (hereafter “the report”). für Wirtschaftsprüfer und vereidigte Buchprüfer] as strategy, sustainability principles and sustainability well as the IDW Standard on Quality Control 1: Remanagement of Münchener Rückversicherungs-­ Our engagement exclusively relates to the information quirements for Quality Control in audit firms [IDW Gesellschaft Aktiengesellschaft in München, marked with the symbol ** in the PDF version of the Qualitätssicherungsstandard 1: Anforderungen an die – Inquiries of employees responsible for data capture report. Qualitätssicherung in der Wirtschaftsprüferpraxis and consolidation of the disclosures marked with the (IDW QS 1)]. symbol ** as well as the preparation of, to evaluate Management’s responsibility the sustainability reporting processes, the data capAuditor’s Responsibility ture and compilation methods as well as internal The legal representatives of the Company are responcontrols to the extent relevant for the assurance of sible for the preparation of the report in accordance Our responsibility is to express a limited assurance the information marked with the symbol **, with the Sustainability Reporting Standards of the conclusion on the information marked with the sym– Identification of likely risks of material misstatement Global Reporting Initiative (hereafter “reporting criteria”) bol ** in the report based on the assurance engagein the report, and for the selection of the information to be assessed. ment we have performed. – Inspection of the relevant documentation of the systems and processes for compiling, aggregating This responsibility includes the selection and applicaWe conducted our limited assurance engagement in and validating data in the reporting period and tion of appropriate methods to prepare the report as accordance with the International Standard on Assur­testing such documentation on a sample basis, well as making assumptions and estimates related to ance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (Revised): Assurance – Inquiries and inspection of documents on a sample individual sustainability disclosures, which are reasonEngagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historbasis relating to the collection and reporting of able in the circumstances. Furthermore, the legal ical Financial Information, issued by the International ­sustainability data and disclosures on the level of ­representatives are responsible for such internal conAuditing and Assurance Standards Board (IAASB). ­selected sites, Munich Re _ CR-Report 2019 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 86 – Analytical measures at group level and on the tained there in no. 9 and to the exclusion of liability level of selected sites regarding the quality of the towards third parties. We assume no responsibility, reported data. liability or other obligations towards third parties ­unless we have concluded a written agreement to the Assurance conclusion contrary with the respective third party or liability cannot effectively be precluded. Based on our assurance procedures performed and assurance evidence obtained, nothing has come to We make express reference to the fact that we do our attention that causes us to believe that the disclonot update the assurance report to reflect events or sures marked with the symbol ** in the Corporate Re­circumstances arising after it was issued unless responsibility Report of Münchener Rückversicherungs-­ quired to do so by law. It is the sole responsibility of Gesellschaft Aktiengesellschaft in München for the anyone taking note of the result of our assurance enreporting period from 1 January 2019 to 31 December gagement summarized in this assurance report to 2019 have not been prepared, in all material respects, ­decide whether and in what way this result is useful or in accordance with the relevant reporting criteria. suitable for their purposes and to supplement, verify or update it by means of their own review procedures. Intended Use of the Report We issue this report on the basis of the engagement agreed with Münchener Rückversicherungs-Gesell­ Munich, 11 May 2020 schaft Aktiengesellschaft in München. The assurance engagement has been performed for the purposes of the Company and the report is solely intended to inform the Company as to the results of the assurance Ernst & Young GmbH engagement and must not be used for purposes other Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft than those intended. The report is not intended to provide third parties with support in making (financial) decisions. Engagement terms and liability Nicole Richter Yvonne Meyer Wirtschaftsprüferin Wirtschaftsprüferin The “General Engagement Terms for Wirtschaftsprüfer (German Public Auditor) (German Public Auditor) and Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaften [German Public Auditors and Public Audit Firms]” dated 1 January 2017 are applicable to this engagement and also govern our relations with third parties in the context of this engagement (www.de.ey.com/general-engagement-terms). In addition, please refer to the liability provisions conMunich Re _ CR-Report 2019 Corporate governance Core business Employees Environment Society Key figures Indices Annex 87 Munich Re CR Report 2019 – Contact and imprint > GRI 102-53 Contact Imprint Please do not hesitate to contact our Sustainability © 2020 team if you have any questions regarding corporate Münchener Rückversicherungs-Gesellschaft responsibility at Munich Re. Aktiengesellschaft in München Königinstr. 107 Please send your questions and comments to 80802 München responsibility@munichre.com Date of publication: Renate Bleich May 2020 Head of Department Sustainability Email: responsibility@munichre.com Text, Design, Layout: Scholz & Friends Reputation Anja Hirsch Consultant Sustainability Email: responsibility@munichre.com Photo credits DKV Seguros: Page 63 dpa: Page 19, 37, 71 Ergo Versicherungsgruppe: Page 53, 61 First climate: Page 64 GettyImages: Page 1, 6, 24, 26, 32, 34, 42, 43, 47, 48, 56, 65, 69, 73 istockphoto.com: Page 18 Mauritius Image: Page 21, 29, 48, 54, 62 Munich Re: Page 33, 36, 67, 71 picuture alliance/dpa: Page 27, 65 Plainpicture: Page 58 Save the Children: Page 70 Shutterstock: Page 15, 16, 28, 41, 44, 68 stock.adobe.com: Page 34, 52
