SUSTAIN­ ABILITY REPORT 2019 Leading Beyond Chemistry 2 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EVONIK CONTENTS INTERACTIVE PDF Optimized for use with Adobe Acrobat. 3 AT A GLANCE 3 Top 10 sustainability targets 4 Foreword 5 Short profile of Evonik 6 History of sustainability at Evonik 7 Our business model 8 Fiscal 2019 STRATEGY AND GROWTH 10 GOVERNANCE AND COMPLIANCE 24 VALUE CHAIN AND PRODUCTS 33 11 Our Sustainability Strategy 2020+ 25 Responsible corporate governance 34 Responsibility within the supply chain 12 How Evonik creates value for society and human rights 37 Research & development/innovation 17 UN Sustainable Development Goals 32 Our targets 39 Efficient use of scarce resources/ of relevance for Evonik circular economy 18 Engaging with our stakeholders 43 Sustainable products and 21 Our materiality analysis solutions for our customers 22 Our targets 45 Product stewardship 48 Our targets 77 COMMITMENT TO SOCIETY 80 BASIS OF REPORTING 80 Overview of sustainability indicators for the Evonik Group 81 Status of our sustainability targets for 2019 82 About this report 85 TCFD index THE ENVIRONMENT 49 EMPLOYEES61 SAFETY72 86 SDG index 87 GRI content index 50 Strategy and management 62 Strategy and management 73 Strategy and management 97 Independent practitioner’s 52 Climate change 63 Appeal as an employer 74 Occupational safety limited assurance report 56 Water management 66 Diversity and equal opportunity 74 Plant safety 58 Waste management 68 Vocational training and continuing 75 Transportation safety and logistics 99 FURTHER INFORMATION 59 Biodiversity professional development 76 Our targets 99 Principal locations 60 Our targets 69 Health protection and promotion 100 Ratings and indices 2019 71 Our targets Sustainability awards 101 List of tables and charts 102 Credits 3 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EVONIK At a glance Top 10 sustainability targets Top 10 sustainability targets 102-14, 102-15 C01 Sustainability areas of action SDGs of relevance for Evonik Top 10 strategy targets KPIs for each area of action Status 2019 Strategy and growth Complete the sustainability analysis of our business 2.0 No. of PARCs where analysis has been 60 a by year-end 2020 completed Sustainable business activities and responsible conduct are cornerstones of our business model. Governance and compliance 27.3 percent women at the first management level Women at the first and second management 26.1%/24.1% below the executive board and 25.0 percent at the second levels below the executive board Reliable and responsible management of the company management level by year-end 2020 is the basis for our long-term business success, fair competition, and acceptance by society. Value chain and products 100 percent of all raw materials suppliers where annual Suppliers of raw materials covered by 66% procurement volume is > €100 thousand to be covered by TfS assessments b In addition to our own production and business TfS assessments by year-end 2025 processes, we always have an eye on the supply chain Increase sales of products and applications developed Sales generated with products and applications 13% for our raw materials, goods, and services and on in the past five years to 16 percent in the mid term developed in the past five years product benefits and applications for customers. Establish a risk estimate for > 99 percent of substances Risks estimates for substances placed on the 85% placed on the market in quantities of > 1 metric ton p.a. market in quantities of >1 metric ton p.a. by year-end 2020 The environment Reduce absolute scope 1 and scope 2 emissions Reduction in greenhouse gas emissions – 42% by 50 percent by 2025 (reference base: 2008) (scope 1/2) Maintaining the natural basis of life for future Reduce absolute scope 3 emissions from the upstream Reduction in scope 3 emissions –– generations is part of our corporate responsibility. value chain—principally from the “carbon backpack”—by 15 percent by 2025 (reference base: 2020) Employees Occupational health performance index ≥ 5.0 Occupational health performance index 5.5% Our employees are the basis of our success. Their professional qualifications and commitment are their key attributes and make Evonik strong. Safety Accident frequency rate should be ≤ 1.30 Accident frequency rate 1.18 Target for 2020 and subsequent years Incident frequency rate 1.10 Safety has priority over sales and profits at Evonik. Incident frequency rate should be ≤ 1.10 Target for 2020 and subsequent years You can find an overview of Evonik’s principal sustainability indicators in the chapter “Basis of reporting” p. 80. a Total PARCs at year-end 2019: 220. | b Annual procurement volume > € 1,000 thousand. 4 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EVONIK At a glance Foreword Foreword 102-14, 102-32 Ladies and gentlemen: As a leading global specialty chemicals company, we made a promise to you: We will strive to be a best-in-class specialty chemicals company and to earn money with products and solutions that ­provide answers to tomorrow’s pressing problems. Our aspiration extends well beyond today. We stand by it, especially in the face of the powerful transformation affecting all areas of our lives as a result of progressive digitalization and the transition to climate-neutral production methods and forms of consumption. That entails significant challenges for our company. Challenges that are linked to high expectations. Because chemistry has always been an enabler of progress in many other sectors. Our innovations CHRISTIAN KULLMANN THOMAS WESSEL help ensure that electric cars drive, and wind turbines rotate. They are vital to ensure future Chairman of the Executive Board Chief Human Resources Officer generations inherit a planet that provides a decent basis for life. That includes protecting the climate and the environment, as well as maintaining prosperity and social stability. To make sure this is not simply empty talk but is translated into action, we need metrics and ambitious targets. In the reporting period, we worked intensively on both of these aspects. At the beginFor us, being a best-in-class specialty chemical company does not simply mean creating new molening of 2019, we adopted a climate and sustainability policy that sets the bar for Evonik even higher cules. It means improving life for as many people as possible. Day by day. Today and for the future. than the German government’s plans for the country as a whole. We want to halve absolute emissions between 2008 and 2025, and greatly increase the sales generated with particularly sustainable That aspiration is highlighted by the title of Evonik’s twelfth full sustainability report. And it is not products. To achieve this, we have refined the tool used for the sustainability analysis of our portfosimply the title of our report; it also expresses our pledge as a company: lio and integrated it into our ongoing strategy dialogues. Leading beyond chemistry We are doing this because we are convinced that there are close links between environmental protection and sustainability, growth and prosperity. Rising efficiency improves profitability, while innovative strength makes us fitter for the future. That is most effective when networking links people with different capabilities in meaningful ways, when new elements are created at the interface between disciplines and markets that were previously viewed in isolation, when today’s decisions anticipate tomorrow’s needs. Christian Kullmann Thomas Wessel 5 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EVONIK At a glance Short profile of Evonik We accept responsibility Living better with Evonik 102-7 We are convinced that only companies that act responsibly and create value for society can be successful in the long term. Our products and solutions help our customers meet We do quite a lot to make their sustainability goals and position themselves for the things better. What exactly? future. For that we rely, above all, on our innovative capabilHere are some examples. ity. Sustainability has long been a growth driver in many We make … CAR TIRES of our businesses. We achieve above-average growth rates TABLETS more fuel efficient more effective with those products and solutions that offer particular ­sustainability benefits. € 13.1 € 2.15 32 approx. GASOLINE ENGINES INSULATING FOOD HAIRCARE MATERIALS billion billion thousand more efficient healthier gentler thinner sales adjusted employees EBITDA Shareholder structure C02 Free float 41.1% AIRPLANES DETERGENTS WIND TURBINES BRIDGES thereof sustainability lighter more effective more durable more weatherproof investors ≈ 14% RAG-Stiftung 58.9% If you’d like to know what else gets better with Evonik specialty chemicals: As of January 2020 www.better-with-evonik.com 6 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EVONIK At a glance History of sustainability at Evonik Responsibility—an integral part of our business for more than 140 years 102-12 C03 Sustainability has deep roots in the In the 1970s, the focus shifted to Extensive governance and commitment of our predecessor environmental protection and safety. compliance activities. companies. At first, the focus was on Dialogue with stakeholders is social policy and codetermination. 1979 Introduction of an environmental hotline for 2004 Code of Conduct e becoming increasingly important. employees and local residents c 2017 2014 Code of Conduct for Suppliers 1995 Joined Responsible Care® a First impact valuation 1875 Insurance coverage for sickness and 2016 Executive Board Policy Since 2011, various formats have been evaluates the impact of permanent incapacity to work a 2002 All executives in operating units agree Statement on Human Rights introduced for dialogue with stakeholders our business from an targets for occupational safety d 2017 Externally run whistleblower 2016 Start of the Evonik Perspectives economic, ecological, 1884 Introduction of the eight-hour workday a 2004 Ambitious environmental targets since 2004 d system stakeholder conferences and social perspective 1886 Establishment of a pension fund a 2013 Start of Safety at Evonik to establish 1898 First staff committee a a safety culture Corporate Responsibility 2011 1 : 7.9 jobs Founding member One Evonik employee secures an average Strategy and Status 2007 of the Together for of 7.9 jobs in the value chain Sustainability initiative Evonik’s first full sustainability report 1875 1884 1886 1898 1939 1979 1994 1995 2007 2009 2011 2013 2016 2017 2018 2019 Employee engagement Sustainability Strategy 2020+ and creativity have always adopted. been important. 2019 1939 Introduction of mailboxes Integration of sustainability into for suggestions on Sustainability becomes a Evonik is involved in major Evonik’s strategic management improvements b processes. Ambitious CO2 target business activity and unlocks sustainability networks 2009 – 1,100 ideas submitted for 2025. Introduction of carbon opportunities for growth. and initiatives. pricing for investments 2019 by our employees lead to savings of € 15 million in the cost of energy, waste1994 Rising demand for products 2002 Member of the World 2017 water, waste disposal, with a reduced environmental Business Council for First analysis of Evonik’s and raw materials impact such as hydrogen Sustainable Development contribution to the peroxide or silica and silanes 2009 Signature of the UN Sustainable Development for “green” tires a UN Global Compact Goals (SDGs) 2016 First sustainability analysis of 2013 Start of involvement our business in the Chemie3 initiative a Former Degussa AG (Frankfurt am Main) | b Evonik Röhm GmbH | c Former Hüls GmbH | d Former “new” Degussa AG (Düsseldorf) | e Replaced the previous Compliance Rules. All elements of this chart are provided as examples. 7 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EVONIK At a glance Our business model Our business model Corporate structure C04 Evonik is one of the world’s leading specialty chemSegments Nutrition & Care Resource Efficiency Performance Materials Services Evonik Group a icals companies. Our strengths include the balanced Sales spectrum of our business activities, end-markets, 4,582 5,685 2,043 763 13,108 (in € million ) and regions, and working closely with customers. Employees 8,090 10,153 1,622 12,091 32,423 Around 80 percent of sales come from market-leading posia Including others/consolidation. tions 1, which we are systematically expanding. Our strong competitive position is based on close collaboration with customers, high innovative capability, and integrated technology platforms. As preconditions for Evonik’s future viability, sustainable busiThe Performance Materials segment is characterized by proness activities and responsible conduct are cornerstones of our cesses that make intensive use of energy and raw materials. It Our specialty chemicals products make an indispensable contribusiness model. We drive forward our sustainability activities therefore concentrates on integrated, cost-optimized technology bution to the benefits of our customers’ products, which generalong the value chain in intensive dialogue with our stakeholders. platforms, efficient workflows, and economies of scale. Our straate their success in global competition. Close cooperation with As well as our own production processes and the products we tegic goal for this segment is to contribute earnings to finance the our customers enables us to build up a deep knowledge of their market, we always consider the supply chain and the product growth of the Evonik Group. Investments and, where appropribusiness, so we can offer products tailored to their specifications. benefits for our customers and their customers. We have ate, alliances concentrate on securing and extending our good Our technology centers and customer competence centers play observed rising demand for products that demonstrate a good market positions. an important role in this around the world. balance of economic, ecological, and social factors. That opens up a broad spectrum of future-oriented business opportunities As of July 1, 2020, our corporate structure will be reorganized Market-oriented research and development is a key driver for Evonik in attractive markets. and aligned to our four growth engines: Specialty Additives, of profitable growth. This is based on our strong innovation ­Animal Nutrition, Health & Care, and Smart Materials. The size ­culture, which is rooted in our innovation management and manIn the light of this, we are systematically implementing our new and profitability of the new chemical divisions will be more agement development. Sustainability Strategy 2020+. Key elements are integrating sus­balanced and they will be easier to manage thanks to a clearer tainability into strategic management processes, carbon pricing alignment to technology platforms. 102-15, 102-6 Highly trained employees are a key success factor. They drive for all investments, and ambitious targets for the reduction of forward the company on a daily basis through their hard work CO2 emissions and the introduction of global water management. Digitalization contributes to profitable growth and identification. We have therefore developed a wide range of Digitalization includes fundamental changes to processes in the activities to gain and develop talented and qualified employees New corporate structure chemical industry. For example, it is altering processes in the proand to position Evonik as a preferred employer in order to retain In the reporting period, our specialty chemicals operations were curement of raw materials, the operation of production facilities, them. divided into three chemical manufacturing segments. The Nutriin marketing and sales, and research and development. The use tion & Care and Resource Efficiency segments operate princiof artificial intelligence, for instance, the planning and optimizapally in attractive markets. Both segments offer customers custom­ tion of production facilities, offers potential for an enormous ­­ized, innovation-driven solutions and the aim is for them to improvement in efficiency and effectiveness. achieve above-average, profitable growth through innovations, investments, and acquisitions. 1 We define these as ranking 1st, 2nd, or 3rd in the relevant markets. 8 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EVONIK At a glance Fiscal 2019 Evonik is driving forward digitalization throughout the Group. Fiscal 2019 Breakdown of value added T01 We regard digitalization as a structural task and are networking in € million 2018 2019 the various decentralized initiatives to make sure that different Evonik held up well in a challenging economic enviTotal value added 4,740 5,994 organizational units and their digital projects can learn from each ronment and achieved its forecast for key perforother and to promote the growth of broadly based digital expermance indicators. Demand for our specialty chemiSplit tise at Evonik. cal products remained strong worldwide. Employees 3,279 3,156 State 307 490 Our activities are grouped in four clusters (#CognitiveSolutions, Creditors 200 221 #DigitalBusiness, #SmartOperations, #HumanWork). These are In all, sales slipped 1 percent to €13,108 million, with volumes Non-controlling interests 22 21 all geared to raising the efficiency of our processes and utilizing and selling prices down slightly. Adjusted EBITDA was around Net income 932 2,106 opportunities. Our guiding principles for digitalization set out the prior-year level at €2,153 million. Positive effects came from how we intend to embrace digitalization. cost-cutting measures and the initial application of IFRS 16 Leases. However, earnings were held back by price erosion in the Major events The role of Evonik Digital GmbH is to test new business models Nutrition & Care and Performance Materials segments. The On July 31, 2019, we divested the methacrylates business to and solutions quickly and flexibly in order to evaluate their benadjusted EBITDA margin improved to 16.4 percent (2018: 16.2 Advent International Corporation, Boston (Massachusetts, USA). efits. In particular, it develops powerful e-commerce solutions percent), but was nevertheless below the target mid-term range This business comprised large-volume monomers such as methyl­ and platforms and digital service offerings. These projects are the of 18 percent to 20 percent. ROCE declined, principally as a methacrylate (MMA), various specialty monomers, and the basis for establishing, bundling, and expanding digital expertise ­consequence of lower EBIT, accompanied by an increase in capiPLEXIGLAS® brand of PMMA molding compounds and and agile working methods. Great importance is attached to tal employed to 8.6 percent, and ROCE was below the cost of semi-finished products. Most of the business was allocated to the upskilling our employees for the digital world. You can find capital. Performance Materials segment, and a small part was allocated information about how digital networking is changing the way to the Resource Efficiency segment. we work in the chapter “Employees” p. 62. Our financial profile is still very good: Evonik has a solid investment grade rating. Net financial debt was reduced significantly. At the end of 2018, Evonik signed an agreement with One Equity Digitalization is strengthening our competitiveness through new Partners to acquire the US company PeroxyChem. PeroxyChem business models and solutions. For example, Evonik wants to use Total value added is a manufacturer of hydrogen peroxide and peracetic acid and is a knowledgeand data-based approach to improve health, animal Value added is calculated from sales and other revenues less the well-positioned in high-margin specialty applications. The acquiwelfare, and productivity in poultry farming. Linking our compecost of materials, depreciation, amortization, and other expenses. sition of PeroxyChem was planned for summer 2019 but was tencies in animal nutrition and digital technologies enables us to Overall, value added increased 26 percent to €5,994 million in delayed by a lawsuit filed by the Federal Trade Commission support our customers in livestock farming by offering extensive 2019. The largest share of value added—53 percent (2018: 69 (FTC) in the USA. The case was dismissed in January 2020, and recommendations based on detailed data analyses. percent)—went to our employees. 8 percent (2018: 6 percent) the US$640 million acquisition was closed on February 3, 2020. was paid to the state in income and other taxes. A further 4 per102-2, 102-7, 102-10, 102-15, 103-2, 201-1 cent (2018: 4 percent) went on interest payments. Shareholders of Evonik Industries AG received 35 percent of value added (2018: 20 percent). 9 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EVONIK At a glance Sustainable products and solutions for our customers CASE STUDY Evonik is expanding its business with environment-friendly oxidation agents Hydrogen peroxide and peracetic acid are two of the most versatile and environment-friendly oxidation agents on the market. Evonik is acquiring PeroxyChem to strengthen its activities in this field. PeroxyChem is a manufacturer of hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) and peracetic acid (PAA) and is H2O2 and PAA are two of the most versatile, reliable, well-positioned in high-margin specialty applications, for example, in the environmental, food and environment-friendly oxidation agents. processing, and electronics sectors where cyclicality is low. The company is headquartered in Philadelphia (Pennsylvania, USA) and employs around 600 people worldwide. Evonik successfully The decomposition product of PAA is acetic acid, completed the acquisition of PeroxyChem in early February 2020. which is readily biodegradable in water. Moreover, it is not bioaccumulative. Against this backdrop, The market for H2O2 and PAA is currently benefiting from the trend towards environmentally PeroxyChem successfully started up a wastewater friendly products and solutions. H2O2 is a sustainable, resource-efficient chemical used in oxidation treatment plant using PAA in Memphis (Tennessee, reactions, bleaching processes in the pulp, paper, and textile industries, the treatment of wastewater USA) in 2019 and signed a long-term supply agreeand exhaust gases, and various disinfectant applications. During processing, hydrogen peroxide only ment with the City of Memphis. splits into hydrogen and water. Consequently, it is often referred to as a genuinely “green” chemical. Fast-growing and innovative Hydrogen peroxide is one of Evonik’s oldest products. It is also one of the fastest-growing and most innovative areas of busiSUSTAINABLE PRODUCTS ness. Evonik is a world-leading manufacturer of H2O2, PAA, and persulfates with 18 production facilities and capacity of more According to our stakeholders, than 1 million metric tons a year. In recent years, Evonik has sustainable products/solutions for our customers is one of steadily extended its business with H2O2 and related products. the three most important susOne example is the innovative hydrogen peroxide to propylene tainability issues for Evonik.1 oxide (HPPO) process developed by Evonik in collaboration with thyssenkrupp. This is a cost-effective and environment-friendly method of synthesizing propylene from hydrogen peroxide and propylene using a special Evonik catalyst. Propylene is a starting product for polyurethane, which is used in insulating walls, mattresses, and car upholstery. H2O2 and PAA are used for oxidation, sterilization, and disinfection. 1 See our materiality analysis in the chapter “Strategy and growth” p. 21 f. 10 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EVONIK Strategy and growth STRATEGY AND GROWTH Evonik aims to be a best-in-class specialty chemical company. Our Sustainability Strategy 2020+ is an expression of this aspiration, including ambitious environmental targets and an understanding of how to translate sustainability into profitability. SDGs of relevance for Evonik KEY TOPICS • Strategy and growth • Digitalization 1 1: € 4.27 1: 7.9 jobs 1: € 1.82 Every € 1 Each Evonik employee Every € 1 value added by secures an average value added by Evonik Evonik creates a total of 7.9 jobs in the results in public revenue of € 4.27 added value chain 3 of € 1.82 3, 4 value for society 2, 3 1 See chapter “At a glance” p. 7 f. 2 Impact valuation of our business in 2019 along the value chain (excluding the methacrylates business) covering Germany, rest of Europe, USA, Canada, Mexico, Asia-Pacific, Middle East & Africa, and Central & South America on the basis of currently available data. 3 Data outside the scope of the limited assurance review. 4 The total includes Evonik’s direct impact. 11 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EVONIK Strategy and growth Our Sustainability Strategy 2020+ STRATEGY AND GROWTH Our Sustainability Strategy 2020+ Extensive transparency and soundly based analytical methods are our response to the growing interest shown by key stakeholders We developed our Sustainability Strategy 2020+ in corporate sustainability. Alongside potential future opportunities 11 Our Sustainability 103-1, 103-2, 102-18, Strategy 2020+ 102-19, 102-20, 102-22, in constant dialogue with our stakeholders. Their and risks, this highlights the value created for society by Evonik’s 102-29,102-32 views are also included in our materiality analysis business activities. Overall, that is a key factor in ensuring accep11 Organization and management and the determination of the UN Sustainable Develtance of new technologies and industrial production. 12 How Evonik creates 103-1, 102-7, 102-15, opment Goals (SDGs) of relevance for Evonik. value for society 102-29, 201-1, 203-2 Organization and management 12 Resources and value The executive board bears overall responsibility for sustainability contributed Evonik’s aim is to be a best-in-class specialty chemicals comat Evonik. Direct responsibility is assigned to the chief human 12 Impact valuation pany. Our Sustainability Strategy 2020+ is an expression of this resources officer, who is also responsible for all climate-related 14 Sustainability analysis of our business 2.0 aspiration, including ambitious environmental targets and an aspects. The Corporate Responsibility division sets the strategic 17 Life cycle assessments understanding of how to translate sustainability into profitability. framework for sustainability management and coordinates More and more customers expect us to support them in the group-wide implementation in close collaboration with other 17 UN Sustainable Development Goals development of resource-saving applications and help them central functions and the operating segments. of relevance for Evonik achieve their sustainability goals. Responsibility for sustainability management at Evonik is set out 18 Engaging with 102-40, 102-42, 102-43, our stakeholders 102-44, 102-21, 102-37 The Sustainability Strategy 2020+ was adopted by the executive in a corporate policy. The HR Executive Committee monitors the board in February 2019. Since then, the development of the global implementation of Evonik’s sustainability strategy. The 21 Our materiality analysis 102-44, 102-46, 102-47, 102-48, 102-49 ­further details of this strategy and its implementation have committee comprises the chief human resources officer, the focused on the following building blocks: industrial relations directors of the segments, and the heads of 22 Our targets 102-14, 102-15 Corporate ESHQ, Corporate Responsibility, and Corporate • New environmental targets (see chapter “The environment” Human Resources. p. 51). • Integrating sustainability into strategic management processes (sustainability analysis of our business 2.0, p. 14 ff., business line strategy dialogues). • Systematic focus on the impact of our business activities along the value chain (impact valuation p. 12 ff.) and on the UN Sustainable Development Goals (see p. 17). • Continuous improvement of our sustainability reporting (see “About this report” p. 82 ff.). • Giving sustainability a firm place in Evonik’s market proposition and purpose. 12 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EVONIK Strategy and growth How Evonik creates value for society Sustainability governance structure at Evonik 102-22, 103-2 C05 Chart C06 (see p. 13) shows the resources and value contributed by Evonik along the value chain. In the reporting period, we EXECUTIVE BOARD Overall responsibility intensified these observations and summarized them by com­ CHIEF HUMAN RESOURCES OFFICER (CHRO) Responsible executive board member paring the resources required for our business activities, on the one hand, and specific value contributions on the other. HR Executive Committee Impact valuation 1 As an industrial company, it is important for Evonik to intensively monitor the impact of its own business activities. We use an ESHQ Panel CR Panel impact valuation to regularly measure and analyze the direct and indirect impact of our business activities from an economic, ecological, and social perspective. This analysis is designed to Operating units Global ESHQ Committee Global CR Committee Global HR Roundtable supplement established internal strategic business analyses. Early Corporate divisions/functions Regions identification of future opportunities and risks makes our business model more resilient and sharpens understanding of the long-term value that our activities create for society. 102-29 ESHQ expert circles CR expert circles This procedure provides an insight into ESHQ = Environment, Safety, Health and Quality CR = Corporate Responsibility • the scale of the ecological, social, and macroeconomic impact HR = Human Resources of our corporate activities; • Evonik’s benefits for society as a whole; and Decision-making competence for group-wide sustainability How Evonik creates value • the key levers to reduce unwanted impacts and maximize projects is delegated to the CR Panel, which is chaired by the head of Corporate Responsibility. The members are the strategic CR for society desirable impacts along our value chain. partners of the segments, the corporate functions, and represenWe pay special attention to the macroeconomic contributions and The aim of our sustainability strategy is to gain a tatives of the workforce. As defined in its rules of procedure, the ecological and social impact of our business activities in our precise understanding of the principal influences CR Panel meets at least twice a year. The work of the CR Panel regions. is supported by the global corporate responsibility committee, and impacts on the value created by Evonik. In which is responsible for the operational realization and promotion recent years, we have systematically extended our of sustainability aspects. Where necessary, specialist input is view to include the entire value chain. provided by project-based CR expert circles. Resources and value contributed In 2017, we conducted the first workshops with individual product managers to analyze the potential opportunities and risks of the value chains of relevance for their business. The focus was on scenarios involving potential disruptive developments in the markets examined, especially in respect of the changing expecta1 Outside the scope of the limited assurance review by PwC. tions of our customers’ customers. 13 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EVONIK Strategy and growth How Evonik creates value for society Resources and value contributed in 2019 203-1, 203-2 C06 Our resources Our business Value contributed approx. 30,000 Society suppliers Society 32,423 employees approx. approx. 29,000 customers € 2.5 billion wages and salaries approx. 30,000 suppliers R&D € 3.7 million donations and sponsorship a as a driver for resource-saving products The environment The environment 63.49 PJ energy inputs 5.5 million 534 million m3 water intake metric tons CO2 emissions (scope 1 and 2) We assume 12 million m3 water consumption b responsibility > 100 for production and the production sites Employees worldwide supply chain Employees 101 nationalities 0.9% early employee turnover 25.7% female employees (Evonik Group) € 2.15 billion € 76 million vocational and advanced training 26.1%/24.1% female managers at the 1st/2nd adj. EBITDA 1.18 accident frequency management level below the executive board Financials Financials 4.1% dividend yield € 6,435 million property, plant and equipment € 180 million income taxes € 842 million capital expenditures € 13.1 billion €64 million interest and other taxes > 4,000 sales products Knowledge Knowledge approx. 29,000 customers approx. 225 new patents and patent applications approx. 24,000 patents 13% sales with products and applications Sustainability approx. 2,560 R&D employees as a growth driver Recycling/ developed in the past five years € 428 million R&D expenses for our markets disposal 47% patent-driven sales and customers (based on total sales) c Production Production 1.10 accident frequency € 9.4 billion procurement volume Customers End-customers 97.1% of all sites are certified in conform9.24 metric tons raw material inputs ance with ISO 14.001/9001 7.9% renewable raw materials SDGs of relevance for Evonik: 9.16 million output metric tons a Outside the scope of the limited assurance review by PwC. b For further water data, see chart C21. c Product sales are patent-driven if there is at least one relevant global patent. 14 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EVONIK Strategy and growth How Evonik creates value for society Our impact valuation is based on the input-output-outcomeare publicly available and have been developed by well-known In the intermediate term, we want to merge the methodology impact (IOOI) model, which takes account of the input of economic, environmental, and social research institutes. used in our impact valuation with the sustainability analysis of resources and the measurable outcomes of corporate activity our business described below. along the value chain. In addition, shortand long-term impacts Chart C08 Monetary impact valuation of our business activities in are derived, measured along the value chain, and evaluated. 2019 (see p. 15) shows the results of the impact valuation, based Sustainability analysis of our business 2.0 Chart C07 Impact of Evonik’s business activities shows the on the figures for fiscal 2019. In particular, this shows that our Evonik products offer customers resource-saving and energy-­ positive and negative impacts of Evonik’s business activities. business activities impact the environment. Within the value chain, efficient solutions for a wide range of applications. In this way the impacts mainly relate to the supply chain/raw materials. This we play a part in meeting the rising sustainability requirements of Monetary valuation is countered by strongly positive macroeconomic impacts, both our markets. At the same time, we utilize opportunities for new A monetary value is assigned to individual indicators such as along the supply chain and by our own production activities. The business and additional profitable growth. continuing development of employees, global warning, and so impact valuation was outside the scope of the limited assurance on, so they can be compared. Most of the factors used for this review by PwC. Impact of Evonik’s business activities C07 Supply chain Evonik Application Indirect impacts: employment, value added, fiscal effects Direct impacts: employment, value added, fiscal effects Induced effects: employment, value added, fiscal effects Economic + Societal impacts resulting from water consumption, abiotic Societal impacts resulting from water consumption, abiotic Societal impacts caused by global warming consumption of resources, acidification, eutrophication, consumption of resources, acidification, eutrophication, Ecological – global warming, and ozone formation global warming, and ozone formation Social impacts due to vocational training and continuing + professional development of employees Social Societal impacts related to industrial health and safety – 15 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EVONIK Strategy and growth How Evonik creates value for society Monetary impact valuation of our business activities in 2019 a C08 Our sustainability analysis helps our operational units develop their businesses and products in the relevant markets. It supplements our strategic business analyses and identifies opportunities Supply chain Evonik Application and risks along the value chain. We applied our sustainability analysis 2.0 for the first time in 2019 on the basis of the enhanced methodology developed and externally audited in the previous Value added year. This analysis covers 99 percent of sales and thus almost all Strategy and growth of Evonik’s continuing chemicals operations 1 in 2018. thereof taxes The sustainability analysis provides insight into Greenhouse gas • our contribution and leverage to reduce our ecological footprint emissions and maximize positive effects along the value chain; Water • approaches to developing resource-saving products and soluconsumption tions for our customers that also play a part in overcoming societal challenges; and Use of Value chain and products resources b • the exposure of our business to issues that are critical for their reputation. The environment Acidification Methodology Eutrophication The core elements of our sustainability analysis are the sustainability criteria along the value chain which Evonik classifies as Ozone formation being relevant. These are closely based on the principles and content of the WBCSD Portfolio Sustainability Assessments (PSA), which Evonik was actively involved in developing. The Employee framework for our sustainability analysis comprises the five Employees absences process steps outlined in chart C09 Sustainability analysis of our Vocational business (see p. 16). All chemical businesses are analyzed at the Safety training and CPD level of PARCs 2. 102-8, 103-2, 201-2, 203-1, 203-2 Type and scope of impact Positive Negative High (over €1 billion) High (over €1 billion) Not calculated Medium (€100 million to €1 billion) Medium (100 million to €1 billion) Low (up to €100 million) Low (up to €100 million) a The impact valuation was outside the scope of the limited assurance review. Chart C08 shows Evonik’s impact along the value chain in 2019, excluding induced effects, 1 Excluding the methacrylates business. which were calculated separately. 2 PARC = product-application-region combination (an element of the PSA method b The impact of raw materials and supplies used in production is taken into account in supply chain/raw materials “upstream.” developed by the World Business Council for Sustainable Development, WBCSD). 16 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EVONIK Strategy and growth How Evonik creates value for society Sustainability analysis of our business C09 Yes Are there material strong negative signals? Challenged I No Defining objectives, scope, Yes Are there material weak negative signals? Transitioner and processes No IV No Categorizing Are there material positive signals? Performer the portfolio Application Yes II No Are there material strong positive signals? Driver Product Defining assessment segments Yes Leader Region Strong positive Leader Weak positive Supports Neutral Driver Weak negative portfolioIII Strong negative 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 V related Detecting Reporting Performer decisions and using the market signals Market signals such as results 1. Critical substances • investments 2. Regulatory trends and global commissions Transitioner • innovation 3. Sustainability ambitions along the value chain 4. Ecolabels, certification, and standards • M&A 5. Relative environmental and social performance 6. Contribution to ecological and social value creation 7. Contribution to the SDGs Challenged 8. Internal guidelines and objectives 17 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EVONIK Strategy and growth UN Sustainable Development Goals of relevance for Evonik As a first step, PARCs were defined and prioritized in 2019. The footprint of our products. In addition, we use cross-referencing basis of sales and corporate strategy (inclusion in our growth criteria selected are based principally on strategically relevant approaches, where findings, for example from existing LCAs, are engines and innovation growth fields). We also take account of indicators such as sales. The analysis then focused on the PARCs used to evaluate similar products. the views of our external stakeholders and the results of our with the highest priority (priority A). The prioritization and materiality analysis. selection were undertaken by our operating units on the basis of their significance for sustainability and the business. In the UN Sustainable Development This evaluation resulted in the following ranking of the SDGs reporting period, these priority A PARCs were examined using various signal categories. These categories include, for example, Goals of relevance for Evonik that are particularly relevant for Evonik (ranked by significance from left to right). expected regulatory trends, relative ecological and social sustainThe Sustainable Development Goals provide ability performance—such as energy and water savings, reducguidance for companies that align their business tions in CO2 emissions—and contribution to the SDGs. activities to sustainable development. Evonik The findings are used in a structured overall evaluation of supports these goals and has intensively examined the sustainability performance of our businesses, resulting in its own positive and negative contributions for allocation to the performance category Leader (A++), Driver a number of years. (A+), Performer (B), Transitioner (C-), or Challenged (C--) 1 on You can find information on how our activities relate to the SDGs the basis of the PARCs analyzed. In-house methodology of relevance to Evonik throughout this report and, for the first In 2017, we started to document the positive contributions made time, an SDG index in the section on the basis of reporting We plan to complete our sustainability analysis 2.0 by the end of by our products to achieving the SDGs and publish them on our p. 86, as well as the mapping of the 17 SDGs to the Global 2020. Our goal is for at least 30 percent of products to be allowebsite https://corporate.evonik.de/en/responsibility. In the course of Reporting Initiative (GRI) content index p. 87. cated to the performance categories Leader (A++) and Driver this, it became clear that many of our products with distinct sus(A+). The aim is to increase this proportion in subsequent years. tainability benefits are also clear growth drivers. SDGs and sustainability analysis of our business Our sustainability analysis 2.0 confirms that the PARCs with the Life cycle assessments Building on this, in 2018 we developed our own methodology highest priority (priority A) have a particularly strong sustainLife cycle assessments are another focal area of our sustainability to identify the SDGs that are especially relevant for Evonik. ability profile. analysis. The high expertise and strong operational involvement In this context, we paid special attention to the sub-targets of the of the life cycle management group plays a key role in ensuring 17 SDGs. An SDG is relevant for us if there is a significant posithat Evonik has wide-ranging knowledge of the environmental tive or negative influence on or by Evonik. impact of its operations. Our procedure comprises a broad spectrum of methods, including life cycle assessments (LCA), which For the businesses defined at the PARC level, we have detercomprise either a cradle-to-gate 2 or a cradle-to-grave 3 analysis. mined the positive and negative impacts along the value chain. In Another tool is the life cycle-based calculation of the carbon a multi-step process, the relevant PARCs are weighted on the 1 Position in the implementation of the requirements for sustainable business within the Evonik benchmark system. 2 From product development through raw material and energy inputs to production. 3 Covering the entire life cycle, including subsequent use and disposal. 18 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EVONIK Strategy and growth Engaging with our stakeholders Engaging with our stakeholders Consequently, we once again ensured there was plenty of scope We have developed various formats for our dialogue with for dialogue with our stakeholders in 2019. stakeholders. These help us engage with both direct and indirect We are convinced that only companies that act stakeholders. One example is the Evonik Perspectives stakeresponsibly, enjoy people’s trust, and are open to Stakeholders are individuals or groups that influence Evonik’s holder forum in Berlin, which we organized for the fourth time in continuous improvement can be successful in the decisions and activities and/or are influenced by them. We use 2019 (see “Intensive dialogue in 2019” p. 19). 102-48 long term. That includes listening very carefully to the following criteria to define and prioritize our stakeholder the concerns of our stakeholders. groups: Our approach to stakeholder engagement includes Evonik’s regions and their wide-ranging contacts. In general, we take care 102-40, 102-42, 102-44 • Type of influence (direct, indirect) to ensure the widest possible coverage of operational, political, • Impact cluster (e.g., business, financial market) social, and community perspectives. 102-21, 103-2, 102-29 We actively seek interaction so we can respond rapidly to • Characterization (e.g., suppliers, employees, customers) key future trends, global developments, and changing market requirements. Chart C10 shows the stakeholder groups of relevance for Evonik and their influence on our company. Stakeholder groups and their influence on Evonik 102-40 C10 Customers Direct influence Employees Shareholders Legislators Suppliers Lenders Authorities Local residents The business Financial markets Regulatory bodies Society/community Associations Analysts/rating agencies Politicians Scientific community Indirect influence Competitors Non-governmental organizations Media 19 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EVONIK Strategy and growth Engaging with our stakeholders When choosing topics for our specific dialogue formats, we are guided by our materiality analysis. We also use these events to validate our materiality analysis and confirm and, where relevant, fine-tune the relevance of issues. Regular reviews are used to continuously improve and develop our stakeholder engagement. Chart C11 Stakeholder engagement in 2019 (see p. 20) summarizes the topics and the formats used in the reporting period. Advocacy Evonik plays an active part in many societal debates and is a partner in opinion-forming processes at a regional, national, European, and international level. Our offices in Berlin and Brussels are important interfaces for dialogue between representatives of politics and public life. Our employees there network closely with politicians, trade associations, and the general public, support them in shaping political conditions, and take up issues in the areas of the environment, sustainability, climate protection, energy, research and development, agricultural policy, and digiEvonik Perspectives (from left: state secretary Dr. Heinrich Bottermann (Ministry of Environment, Agriculture, Conservation and Consumer Protection, federal state of North Rhine-Westphalia), Prof. Martina Schraudner (head of the Fraunhofer Center for Responsible Research and Innovation; talization. On this basis, we took part in consultations, hearings, member of the executive board of acatech—National Academy of Science and Engineering), Michael Jedelhauser (NABU), Karl-Josef Kuhn (head of and discussions in 2019. In the environmental area, activities conthe Power-to-X and Storage technology field, Siemens AG). centrated on the draft version of the German Clean Air Act (TA-Luft). In addition, we concentrated on papers relating to European plastics strategy and sustainable finance. The German Intensive dialogue in 2019 This expert circle will also use the results of ‘No time to government’s climate package and carbon pricing dominated our 102-40, 102-42, 102-43, 102-47 waste,’ Evonik’s brainstorming workshop in Brussels, which activities in the area of climate policy. In the area of energy policy, The circular economy opens up new opportunities. Companies centered on chemical recycling of plastics as an effective we concentrated on legislation to exit coal. benefit from attractive future markets and the possibility complement to mechanical recycling. In particular, experts to differentiate themselves favorably from their competitors. from politics and business discussed the preconditions that But what strategies and innovations are needed? And how need to be created for this in Europe. The workshop proved can their contribution to a circular economy be measured? helpful for the work of our Functional Solutions business line. Those were the questions discussed by more than 150 representatives of politics, trade associations, non-governmental Acceptance is vital for innovation. So how can we achieve organizations, scientists, customers, and suppliers at Evonik’s this at a time when industrial progress is often equated with stakeholder conference ‘Making the future go round—The the deconstruction of our natural environment? For Evonik, circular economy as an opportunity for Germany as a business as a highly innovative company, this is a key question. It was center.’ As well as attending workshops and panel discussions, taken up by selected guests from politics, science, and society par­ticipants at the Evonik Perspectives forum in Berlin could at our stakeholder dialogue ‘Start-up to the Moon—The participate actively throughout the event via a web-based fascination of innovation’ in Bochum (Germany). system. The feedback will be used for the work of the expert circle on circular economy. 20 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EVONIK Strategy and growth Engaging with our stakeholders Stakeholder engagement in 2019 102-43, 102-44 C11 Stakeholder groups a Examples of stakeholder engagement Key issues Stakeholder groups a Examples of stakeholder engagement Key issues • Talks with customers, reports, analyses • Quality, reliability of supply, prices • Stakeholder dialogue ‘Making the future go • Responsible management and human rights • Stakeholder dialogue ‘Making the future go • R&D/innovation round—The circular economy as an opportunity • Plant safety, occupational safety, round—The circular economy as an opportunity • Responsible management and human rights for Germany as a business center’ transportation safety/logistics for Germany as a business center.’ • Support to help customers achieve their • Brainstorming workshop ‘No time to waste’ • Climate change; water management • 2nd Fuchs-Evonik Forum sustainability targets (chemical recycling of plastics) • Appeal as an employer • Sustainability dialogue with leading tire • Dialogue with national politicians Customers Legislators manufacturers • ‘Evonik Catalyst Days’ in India • Meetings with customers at trade shows such as Evonik in-cosmetics 2019 and ICAT 2019— Industrial Catalysis Conference • 3rd Evonik School of Animal Nutrition • Employee development reviews • Wages and salaries • Stakeholder dialogue ‘Making the future • Climate change; water management • Intranet, blogs, employee magazine • Vocational and advanced training go round—The circular economy as an • Plant safety, occupational safety, • Internal social media platforms (“communities”) • Plant safety, occupational safety, opportunity for Germany as a business center’ transportation safety/logistics • Roundtable discussions and networks transportation safety/logistics • Stakeholder dialogue ‘Start-up to the moon— • Permitting processes (Evonik’s groW network for women) • Work-life balance The fascination of innovation’ • Responsible management and human rights Employees • Interactive careers website with the • Leadership quality Authorities • Talks with public authorities • Appeal as an employer #HumanChemistry social media platform • Current business development • Efficient use of scarce resources/ • Works festival in Hanau • In-house changes circular economy • Evonik learning hour • Customer focus • Diversity and equal opportunities • Digitalization • Supplier Day Asia organized by Together for • Price, quality, payment practice • Magazines for local residents • Plant safety, occupational safety, Sustainability (TfS) in Shanghai (China) • Responsible management and human rights • Environmental and neighborhood hotlines transportation safety/logistics • TfS corrective action plan (CAP) webinar for • Plant safety, occupational safety, • Dialogue with local residents at • Appeal as an employer suppliers in China transportation safety/logistics Marl Chemical Park • Local activities Suppliers • Climate change; water management Local residents b • 3rd apprenticeship evening in Hanau (Germany) • Current business development and outlook • Open days at various sites around the world, • Changes at the company e.g., in Shanghai (China) and Pandino (Italy) • Annual shareholders’ meeting • Attractive dividend policy • Talks with rating agencies • Ratings and rankings • Roadshows/conferences • Current business development and outlook • Talks with lenders • Current business development and outlook Shareholders Lenders a Only includes stakeholders with a direct influence. b Around Evonik sites. 21 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EVONIK Strategy and growth Our materiality analysis Our materiality analysis Materiality analysis 2019 102-44, 102-46, 102-47, 102-48, 102-49, 103-2 C12 Our sustainability activities are systematically aligned to materiality. The results of our materiality More sustainable analysis are grouped in six areas of action, which products/solutions also provide the basic structure for this report. for our customers The last extensive review of our materiality analysis was in 2018. Efficient use of scarce resources/ Climate change This comprised asking our stakeholders about the most important circular economy sustainability issues for Evonik. A distinction was made between stakeholders with direct and indirect influence. The participants R&D/innovation Responsible management Increasing relevance for stakeholders at our stakeholder dialogues formed the basis for our survey. and human rights In addition, we asked internal experts, employee representatives, Responsibility within the supply chain Plant safety and specialists from the Evonik regions for their opinions. ParticStrategy and growth ular attention was paid to both positive and negative impacts of Evonik’s business activities along the value chain. 102-40, 102-42, Product stewardship 102-43, 102-46, 102-48, 102-49 Digitalization Occupational safety Chart C12 Materiality analysis 2019 shows the opinion of our Waste management Water management stakeholders and internal experts on the most important sustainAppeal as Diversity and an employer equal opportunity ability topics for Evonik. The top 3 topics are Training/ Health protection Biodiversity advanced training and promotion • sustainable products/solutions for our customers, Transportation • climate change, and safety/logistics • efficient use of scarce resources/circular economy. These were the focus of our work in 2019. This is reflected in our new target for reducing CO2 emissions, which forms a key element in our Sustainability Strategy 2020+, and internal and external events dedicated to the circular economy (see “Intensive dialogue in 2019” p. 19). This report is also systematically Increasing relevance for Evonik aligned to the materiality criterion. Areas of action Further information: Strategy and growth The environment Top 3 sustainability issues Case study “Sustainable products: Governance and compliance Employees of relevance for Evonik oxidation agents” p. 9 Value chain and products Safety Top 10 sustainability issues Case study “Circular economy” p. 41 of relevance for Evonik Case study “Sustainable products: cosmetics” p. 44 Case study “Climate change” p. 53 22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EVONIK Strategy and growth Our targets If significant new topics arise, we review the relevant processes Our targets and adapt them as necessary. We intend to conduct an extensive update of our materiality analysis roughly every three years. In the Below is an overview of the targets set for our strategy and growth area of action. The targets defined meantime, we are driving forward the topics already identified. for 2020 and beyond have been sharpened and streamlined to enhance their strategic relevance. For the topics defined in our materiality analysis, there is a complaints mechanism for both employees and external stakeholders. Target attainment in 2019 Target for 2020 and beyond An important tool for this is our whistleblower system (see chapter “Governance and compliance” 26 ff.). Anchor sustainability in strategy dialogues Complete the sustainability analysis of our business 2.0 We have defined reporting boundaries for our six areas of action (see “Our Sustainability Strategy 2020+” p. 11) and the related topics. These specify whether we monitor and manage the area of action within our organization or externally. Synchronize the publication of date of financial and Chart C13 Areas of action and impact of Evonik’s business along non-financial reports (see “About this report” p. 82) the value chain (see p. 23) provides an insight into the possi­ bilities and limits of our influence within the value chain—for example, through our procurement volume, our management Review the SDGs of relevance for Evonik (from 2020) 1 systems, or current business processes. (see “UN Sustainable Development Goals of relevance 102-46, 102-47 for Evonik” p. 17) Ongoing development of the impact valuation (see “Impact valuation” p. 12) • Complete the global monetary valuation of the impact of our business along the value chain Target not achieved • Update the data to include 2017 and 2018 Target partially achieved or target horizon extends beyond 2019 Target achieved Conduct a sustainability analysis of our businesses 1 This target will not be pursued in 2020 because in the coming year we will be using the extended methodology (see “Sustainability concentrating on implementing our Sustainability Strategy 2020+ and extending analysis of our business 2.0” p. 14) the sustainability analysis of our business 2.0. The SDGs are integrated into the sustainability analysis. 23 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EVONIK Strategy and growth Our targets Areas of action and impact of Evonik’s business along the value chain 102-46, 102-47, 103-2 C13 Areas of action and key topics SDGs of relevance Reporting boundary a Influence along the value chain for Evonik Supply chain a Evonik Application b Strategy and growth internal/ medium high medium external • Strategy and growth • Digitalization Governance and compliance internal/ medium high low external • Responsible management and human rights Value chain and products • Responsibility within the supply chain internal/ medium high medium • R&D/innovation external • Efficient use of scarce resources/circular economy • Sustainable products/solutions for our customers • Product stewardship The environment • Climate change internal none high none • Water management • Waste management • Biodiversity Employees • Appeal as an employer internal none high none • Diversity and equal opportunity • Training/advanced training • Protecting and promoting health Safety internal/ medium high low • Occupational safety external • Plant safety • Transportation safety/logistics a We have defined reporting boundaries for these areas of action and the related topics. These specify whether we monitor and manage the area of action within our organization or externally. b Only direct suppliers and direct customers. 24 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EVONIK Governance UND GOVERNANCE compliance and COMPLIANCE GOVERNANCE AND COMPLIANCE We are convinced that reliable and responsible management of the company is the basis for our long-term business success, fair competition, and acceptance by society. SDGs of relevance for Evonik KEY TOPIC • Responsible corporate governance and human rights 25.0% 26.1% 24.1% Female executive Female managers at Female managers at board members first management level 1 second management level 1 1 At Evonik Industries AG. 25 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EVONIK Governance and compliance Responsible corporate governance and human rights GOVERNANCE AND COMPLIANCE Voluntary commitments C14 Internal External 25 Responsible corporate governance econsense—Forum for Sustainable and human rights Code of Conduct for Evonik employees Chemie3 Development of German Business 25 Strategy and management 102-12, 102-13, 102-16 26 Human rights  406-1, 407-1, 408-1, 409-1, 103-2 Global Social Policy ILO—International Labour Standards Global Reporting Initiative 27 Corporate governance 102-18, 102-19, 102-20, 10221, 102-22, 102-23, 102-27, 102-28, 102-35, 102-36, 405-1 Our Values for the Environment, OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises Responsible Care Safety, Health, and Quality 28 Opportunity and 102-15, 102-29, 102-30, 201-2 risk management 28 Compliance 102-11, 102-33, 102-34, 102Policy Statement on Human Rights Code of Responsible Conduct for Business Together for Sustainability 17, 307-1, 103-2, 407-1, 205-1, 205-2, 205-3, 206-1, 419-1 World Business Council for Code of Conduct for Suppliers UN Global Compact 31 Our activities in 2019 Sustainable Development (WBCSD) 31 Cybersecurity 32 Management 418-1 of data protection 32 Donations and sponsorship 415-1 (ESHQ) values. In addition, the executive board has adopted a Development Goals (SDGs). We have therefore identified the 32 Our targets policy statement on human rights. Human rights are included in SDGs that are most relevant for us (see chapter “Strategy and the updated code of conduct that came into effect in spring 2017. growth” p. 17). Our code of conduct sets out Evonik’s most important principles As a signatory to the chemical industry’s Responsible Care® Responsible corporate governance and standards, which all employees must be aware of. It is valid Global Charter, we have an obligation to continuously improve and human rights throughout the Evonik Group 1 and is an integral part of the employment contract between each individual employee and our performance in health protection, environmental protection, product stewardship, and safety. Our ESHQ values define proEvonik. Violation of the code of conduct can have far-reaching tecting people and the environment as core elements of our Responsible corporate governance does not simply consequences for employees. In addition, it can damage Evonik’s actions. Together with more detailed policies and procedures, involve complying with the law and respecting reputation and result in substantial financial loss. We do not tolerthey form Evonik’s ESHQ regulations. For information on our human rights. It also includes internal regulations and ate violation of our code of conduct. Evonik has issued a special code of conduct for suppliers and our activities as a founding binding voluntary commitments. We are committed code of conduct for suppliers, setting out binding requirements member of the chemical industry’s Together for Sustainability to fair competition, we comply with cartel and (see chapter “Value chain and products” p. 35). initiative (see chapter “Value chain and products” p. 35). antitrust law, and we forbid any form of corruption. In our global social policy, we set out the principles of social Strategy and management responsibility for our employees. As a member of the UN Global Evonik is committed to observing internationally recognized Compact, we have given an undertaking that, within our sphere standards and its own more far-reaching guidelines and principles of influence, we will respect and promote labor rights and human 1 The code of conduct applies to a) all employees of Evonik Industries AG, b) all of conduct. The starting point for responsible corporate managerights, avoid discrimination, protect people and the environment, employees of companies where Evonik Industries AG directly or indirectly holds more than 50 percent of the shares or is able to exert a controlling influence in any ment at Evonik is our code of conduct, together with our global and fight against corruption. In addition, we want to make a other way, and c) the executive board of Evonik Industries AG and all managing social policy, and our environment, safety, health, and quality contribution to achieving the United Nations’ 17 Sustainable bodies of the companies referred to in b). 26 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EVONIK Governance and compliance Responsible corporate governance and human rights Evonik is involved in many national and international competency Human rights networks in the area of sustainability. These include econsense, Evonik looks at human rights at all stages in the value chain, an association of leading German companies that operate in the including suppliers, its own processes, and customer applications. global arena, and Chemie³, the sustainability initiative of the The demands made on our suppliers are set out in a separate German chemical industry. Evonik is also a member of the World code of conduct. We regularly check compliance through our Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) and is supplier validation and evaluation processes (see chapter “Value committed to its Vision 2050. We regularly report our climate chain and products” p. 35). and water performance to the CDP. support the mission of GRI to empower decision-makers everywhere, through GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards and its Information on breaches of our commitments can be reported via Our sustainability reporting complies with the Global Reporting multi-stakeholder network, to take action towards a more a whistleblower system operated by a third party, which guaranInitiative (GRI). We are a member of GRI Community and sustainable economy and world. 407-1, 103-2, 408-1, 409-1 tees the anonymity of the whistleblower. This enables employees and third parties (e.g., local residents, suppliers, customers) to report suspected breaches of human rights. The Corporate Responsibility division examines all allegations. No suspected breaches of human rights were reported in 2019. Human rights training with Alejandra In the reporting period, we streamlined and updated our human Alejandra is twelve years old. Instead of getting ready for rights risk map, which helps us identify and assess potential human school when she gets up in the morning, she prepares to rights and labor law risks. In addition, we refined our human rights go to work in a mangrove swamp. That is the introduction training programs, which were used in the training of ­managers to a case study used for human rights training at Evonik. Does this violate and employees in various countries, including Singapore, Brazil, A worksheet contains further information on the dangers human rights? and the United States. The courses give participants a basic overParticipants involved in her job. The participants at this training session discussing a case at view of human rights, present the relevant Evonik regulations, discuss whether or not Alejandra’s situation is a violation of a training session. and show how they relate to the applicable human rights and human rights. Once they reach agreement, they move on to labor rights. We will continue our human rights training in the the next worksheet. At the end, everyone present discusses coming year. In addition, we have developed a web-based trainthe decisions. Alejandra’s case is about dangerous child module, they learn more about Evonik’s global social policy ing module, which will be introduced in 2020. labor, the right to education, and the right to health. and how the company and they themselves can put the policy into practice. The German government’s national action plan on business and Participants at these human rights training sessions learn a human rights (NAP) is an initiative to improve the human rights lot about human rights as they work through the exercises. Most of the participants at the training sessions have not been situation throughout the value chain. A government survey in At the end, they know that human rights are universal rights personally confronted with human rights violations, but after 2019 and 2020 is compiling information on implementation of that apply to people, no matter where they live. They also the course they know how important human rights are for core elements of the duty to respect human rights in accordance know that Evonik has given a commitment to respect the daily life and what it means if they are not respected. with the NAP. We took part in this through Evonik Nutrition & ten principles of the Global Compact. In a further training Care GmbH. The government will use the results of this review to decide on possible legislation. 27 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EVONIK Governance and compliance Responsible corporate governance and human rights We have published our statement on the UK Modern Slavery Act When making appointments to the executive board, the super­ in a separate list. The supervisory board has the following comon our website. This reiterates our rejection of forced labor, visory board considers both the professional qualifications of the mittees: an executive committee, an audit committee, a finance slavery, child labor, and human trafficking, both within Evonik candidates and the other criteria it has defined for the executive and investment committee, an innovation and research committee, and in our value chain. board as part of the diversity concept. These include, for example, a nomination committee, and the mediation committee required a suitable mixture of ages and fulfillment of the targets for the by the German Codetermination Act. Corporate governance proportion of women on the executive board. As a specialty chemicals company with a presence throughout the The executive board provides regular, timely, and extensive world, good corporate governance with a long-term focus is Percentage of women on the executive board information for the supervisory board on all matters of relevance essential for Evonik. The executive board and supervisory board and in management for the company. Major sustainability aspects are included in are explicitly committed to responsible corporate governance and For the period from July 1, 2017 to June 30, 2022, the supervisory context. On this basis, Evonik’s sustainability activities are also identify with the goals of the German Corporate Governance board has raised the target for the proportion of women on the discussed at meetings of the supervisory board. For example, the Code. Respecting and applying the principles of corporate goverexecutive board from 20 percent to 25 percent. At present, one executive board’s report to the supervisory board meeting in June nance are important management tasks. member of the executive board is female and three are male, so 2019 included Evonik’s new sustainability and climate strategy. it meets this target. These principles relate mainly to collaboration within the execuIn accordance with the provisions of the German Codetermi­ tive board and supervisory board and between these two boards. For the period from January 1, 2017 to December 31, 2019, the nation Act, the supervisory board comprises twenty members, They also include the relationship between Evonik and its shareexecutive board set a target of 20 percent female managers for ten of whom are representatives of the shareholders while ten holders and other people and organizations that have a business each of the first two management levels below the executive are representatives of the workforce. relationship with company. board. At the end of 2019, the proportion of female managers was 26.1 percent at the first management level and 24.1 percent at A minimum quota of 30 percent women is set by law. The superAs provided for by the foreword to the German Corporate the second management level, so these targets were met. For the visory board currently meets this requirement as it comprises Governance Code, Evonik reserves the right not to implement period from January 1, 2020 to December 31, 2020, the executive seven women and 13 men. Women therefore make up 35 percent certain provisions if departure from the recommendations is justiboard has set new targets. These are 27.3 percent for the first the total. The supervisory board takes diversity into account, both fied. The latest declaration of conformity with the requirements management level below the executive board and 25.0 percent for in its own composition and in appointments to the executive of the German Corporate Governance Code has been published the second management level. board. The supervisory board’s diversity concept includes rules on our website www.evonik.com. on the independence and age of supervisory board members and Supervisory board their maximum term of office. Supplementary criteria apply for Executive board The supervisory board advises and supervises the executive the profile of skills and expertise of the supervisory board as a The executive board of Evonik Industries AG is responsible for board. It appoints the members of the executive board and names whole. These relate to the necessary knowledge and abilities of running the company in the company’s interests, taking into one member as the chairperson of the executive board. It also the members of the supervisory board, for example, international account the interests of the shareholders, employees, and other decides on the remuneration of the members of the executive experience, a knowledge of business administration and science, stakeholders. For details of the executive board’s overall responboard. The supervisory board examines the company’s annual and experience in managing a company. sibility for sustainability, see “Strategy and growth” p. 12. The financial statements, the executive board’s proposal for the distriexecutive board discusses sustainability at its meetings several bution of the profit, the consolidated financial statements for the You can find further information on corporate governance in the times a year, especially aspects relating to the environment, safety, Evonik Group, and the combined management report. The execcorporate governance report and the declaration on corporate and society. utive board is required to obtain the approval of the supervisory governance, which are available on our website and also form board on decisions of fundamental importance, which are defined part of Evonik’s financial report. 102-21, 103-2, 102-25, 102-22, 102-23, 102-24, 102-27, 405-1 28 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EVONIK Governance and compliance Responsible corporate governance and human rights Performance-oriented remuneration of senior management Compliance activities takes place in the compliance committee, which is The supervisory board is responsible for the employment The compliance areas of specific relevance to Evonik are bundled composed of the heads of the respective units, who have indecontracts with the members of the executive board. It sets the in a House of Compliance. Each area sets out relevant rules for its pendent responsibility for their areas, and the head of the Corpototal remuneration package for each member of the executive compliance-related issues and the voluntary commitments rate Audit division. Corporate Audit supports the executive board board, comprising a basic salary, variable shortand long-term entered into by Evonik. and subsequent management levels in the performance of their components, pension benefits, the reimbursement of expenses, supervisory duties and continuous improvement of business proinsurance, and various other fringe benefits. The contracts Functional responsibility for the environment, safety, health, and cesses by performing independent audits. A key focus is auditing with members of the executive board and all executives include quality are bundled in a corporate division with the same name the internal control system and the risk management system. remuneration elements based on personal performance and the (see chapter “The environment” p. 50). overall performance of the Evonik Group. As one of our signifiCompliance management system cant sustainability topics, occupational safety (accident frequency Minimum group-wide standards have been defined for the comThe compliance management system is based on the values and and severity) influences the remuneration of the executive board. pliance management systems for the areas covered by the House targets adopted by the executive board. The main aim of the The remuneration report in the financial report 2019 contains of Compliance, and we ensure that they are implemented. Final compliance management system is to avoid, or at least minimize, further information on the remuneration of the executive board responsibility rests with the executive board, which defines the violations and the associated risks. The objective is to identify and supervisory board. 102-36 key elements of the compliance management system and ensures violations and impose sanctions based on their severity. The that it is observed. The supervisory board’s audit committee heads of the compliance departments ensure that the compliance Opportunity and risk management monitors the effectiveness of the system. The process of forming management system is appropriate and effective for the respecEvonik is exposed to a range of influences that may constitute a consensus, sharing experience, and coordinating compliance tive compliance issues. either opportunities or risks. Timely identification and mitigation of risks is therefore the basis of our extensive opportunity and risk management. 201-2 House of Compliance 102-16, 102-17 C15 Since 2017, non-financial risks have been integrated more closely Executive Board into our conventional risk reporting. Our established risk management system now systematically captures and monitors non-­ Compliance Committee quantifiable sustainability risks over a longer time horizon. All units are required to update their risk reports, including sustainHead of Head of Head of Head of Chief Compliance Officer Data Corporate ability risks, every quarter and to immediately report any ad-hoc Taxes HR Protection Audit a risks, even outside the regular reporting intervals. Further information can be found in the opportunity and risk report in the financial report 2019. Fighting Corruption, Capital Market Law Human Resources Foreign Trade Code of Conduct Data Protection Corporate Audit Antitrust Money Laundering, For the first time, this reports climate-related opportunities and Taxes and Customs Law risks in the categories defined by the Task Force on Climate-­ related Financial Disclosures (TCFD): governance, strategy, risk and Fraud management, and metrics and targets (see chapter “Basis of reporting” p. 80 f.). 1 Compliance Management System 1 Outside the scope of the limited assurance review by PwC. a Advisory function. 29 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EVONIK Governance and compliance Responsible corporate governance and human rights Compliance Management System (CMS) 102-17, 103-2, 407-1, 408-1, 409-1 C16 Principle of detection Tools used to identify potential compliance risks include our Responsibility of Management whistleblower system and investigations. Values and Objectives All employees are required to report possible or actual violations Prevention Detection Response of the code of conduct to the responsible department or compliance officer without delay, regardless whether they relate to them Adequacy, Effectiveness Continuous Improvement • Risk Analysis • Whistleblower System • Corrective Measures personally or to their colleagues. There is also an anonymous • Standards • Investigations • Sanctions whistleblower system managed by an independent party for the • Processes • Monitoring & Audits • Lessons Learned • Training reporting of possible compliance violations. Both employees and • Sensitization/Communication external parties such as business partners can report possible • Advice & Support compliance violations to Evonik without any technical risks that their identity will be disclosed. Anonymous reports are possible Compliance Reporting on all key compliance issues and are automatically forwarded to Compliance Organization the responsible unit within the company for action. Evonik investigates all alleged violations and treats all information with the greatest possible confidentiality. We do not tolerate Principle of prevention Uniform global training concept T02 any disadvantage to employees who report possible or actual vioTools used to avoid potential compliance risks include risk analysis lations or cooperate in the investigation of such violations. Criterion Description and training. Topics covered Antitrust law Internal investigations into alleged compliance violations, along To identify potential risks as early as possible, every unit is required Fighting corruption with possible improvements and sanctions, are based on uniform to perform regular risk analyses. Based on the results of these Code of conduct principles and standards. These are applicable for all units that risk analyses, each organizational unit issues binding standards Selection of target group Job function and qualifications perform internal investigations, not just those in the House of and processes for the precautions to be taken with regard to Uniform risk criteria Compliance. business activities where there are specific compliance risks. Risk level: none—low—high Every organizational unit must regularly check the appropriateDifferentiation between compliance issues Group-wide training concepts have been developed for all ness and effectiveness of its compliance management system. aspects bundled in the House of Compliance. They define the Frequency a and type Low risk: every three years → In addition, regular reviews are performed by Corporate Audit. mandatory e-learning sessions type, frequency, and content of training and the target groups. High risk: every two years → Each organizational unit is responsible for their realization. We mandatory face-to-face and pay special attention to training in the areas of antitrust law, e-learning sessions (alternating) fighting corruption, and the code of conduct. Participants are a More frequent training can be held if necessary, e.g., if there are changes in the allocated to three groups on the basis of risk. See table T02. legal framework or statutory requirements. 30 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EVONIK Governance and compliance Responsible corporate governance and human rights Principle of response Compliance training and training rate a T03 Suitable measures are taken to end the violation and minimize Antitrust law Fighting corruption Code of conduct the risk. Depending on the severity of the case, disciplinary action ranges from warnings or reprimands to redeployment or Training Training Training dismissal. Where appropriate, further action is taken to raise candidates, Training rate candidates, Training rate candidates, Training rate total in % total in % total in % awareness, for example, through training. Worldwide 4,069 82 10,681 91 28,500 89 The principal risks, events, and measures taken are outlined in an annual compliance report submitted to the supervisory board’s Management functions 2,701 81 6,529 89 7,478 89 audit committee, the executive board, and the management Management circle 1 b 112 95 162 83 162 83 boards of the segments. Furthermore, where necessary the execManagement circle 2 c 310 88 482 90 484 90 utive board and segment management boards receive immediate d Management circle 3 2,279 79 5,885 89 6,832 89 information on material risks, violations of rules, and compliance-­ Non-management functions 1,368 85 4,152 94 21,022 89 related developments. Compliance rules for business partners Functions Evonik has issued a special code of conduct for suppliers, setting Production & Technology 115 74 3,035 93 11,781 87 out binding requirements (see chapter “Value chain and products” Innovation Management 582 79 1,664 96 4,631 93 p. 34). Intermediaries, above all sales intermediaries, are subject Marketing & Sales 2,396 85 2,214 83 2,581 83 to a compliance check before the establishment of the business Administrative functions 976 80 3,768 92 8,138 90 relationship and every five years thereafter. They also have to e Other functions 0 0 0 0 1,369 89 sign a compliance declaration. Risk-based compliance checks (due diligence) and any necessary measures are also applied Regions to business partners involved in acquisitions, joint ventures, corporate venture projects, and major investment projects. These Asia-Pacific North 622 88 1,166 93 2,036 88 are based on uniform rules for the Evonik Group. 102-17 Asia-Pacific South 316 74 626 93 1,420 91 Middle East & Africa 76 84 93 83 142 75 North America 680 58 1,690 88 4,338 80 Eastern Europe 115 87 163 79 272 78 Western Europe 2,089 91 6,679 92 19,630 91 of which Germany 1,888 93 6,339 94 18,523 92 Central & South America 169 66 262 75 659 69 a The training rate is defined as the number of training candidates with a valid certificate relative to the total number of training candidates on December 31, 2019. All training reported in the system is included. b Management circle 1 = executive functions, i.e., top management functions in the Evonik Group. c Management circle 2 = senior management functions, i.e., key functions in the segments, regions, service units, and corporate divisions. d Management circle 3 = further management functions. e Other functions = apprentices, apprentices outside Germany, non-permanent staff. 31 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EVONIK Governance and compliance Responsible corporate governance and human rights Our activities in 2019 102-17, 103-2, 407-1, 408-1, 409-1 , 418-1 Various individual measures were taken in 32 other cases. Since Legal proceedings resulting from anti-competitive conduct The measures implemented in 2019 include: 2018, the scope of reporting has covered all internal investi­ or the formation of cartels and monopolies • Prevention of money laundering: drawing up an anti-money gations in the Evonik Group. Before that, only the areas covered In 2012, the Brazilian antitrust authorities filed proceedings laundering policy and programming a supporting application by the House of Compliance were included. against Evonik in connection with the delivery of methionine in • Group-wide project to harmonize the requirements for anathe period prior to 2000. A final decision has not yet been taken. lyzing business partners Fines and other sanctions Following a fine imposed by the EU Commission in 2002 on • Antitrust law: procurement of new e-learning modules. In 2019, the annual compliance reporting for the areas in the ­various methionine producers (including Evonik), the Brazilian House of Compliance, Group Security, ESHQ, and IT Security, antitrust authorities have filed proceedings against Evonik in conFurther compliance activities are outlined in the section headed included a structured survey to identify significant fines nection with the delivery of methionine to Brazil. Evonik is of the “Training.” (> € 100,000) and non-monetary sanctions resulting from failure opinion that a fine cannot be imposed due to the statute of limita­ to comply with laws or regulations. No fines or sanctions of this tions. In Germany, a claim for damages resulting from a cartel has Training type were imposed on the above areas in 2019 in connection been filed against the parties involved in the European hydrogen For the compliance areas antitrust law, fighting corruption, and with compliance issues. peroxide cartel, which was ended in 2001. Since Evonik conclu­ded code of conduct, we report a training rate for 2019. This is a settlement with the plaintiff years ago, it is not a defendant and defined as the number of training candidates with a valid certifiInternal investigations in 2019 T04 is merely a party cited in the case. cate relative to the total number of training candidates. The data 2017 2018 2019 refer to both face-to-face training and e-learning. To improve Confirmed incidents of corruption and action taken group-wide participation in face-to-face and e-learning training Reported potential In the reporting period, there was one attempt at corruption in Gercompliance violations 27 90 113 sessions, an extensive concept to deal with employees who fail to many and a confirmed case of corruption in Taiwan. In Germany, Disciplinary measures taken 12 106 a 60 take part in training was implemented in the reporting period. we suspended our relationship with a business partner until the The training concept was extended to cover the relative new Termination of situation had been clarified. Evonik is of the opinion that approemployment contract 6 7 7 topic of combating money laundering and financing of terrorism. priate action was taken by the business partner, so the business Warning or reprimand 1 19 3 The materials used for face-to-face training on fighting corruption relation­ship was resumed. In Taiwan, we ended our relationship with were revised. The e-learning module on the code of conduct was Redeployment 1 1 1 the business partner, and the employee involved was dismissed. aligned to the new corporate values and a new section on taxes Awareness-raising/ training 4 12 2 was added. Cybersecurity Security consulting – 14 10 Evonik bases the protection of its data and information systems Internal investigations Criminal proceedings – 7c 3 on the international information security management system Group-wide, 113 internal investigations into suspected violations Civil proceedings – – 2 ISO 27001. Certification is planned for 2020. of compliance rules were conducted in 2019. 60 disciplinary Other b – 37 32 measures were taken as a result of these internal investigations: a There are binding policies and rules on IT security for the entire In some cases, more than one measure was taken in connection with an investigation. Seven employees were dismissed, three employees received b Various individual measures, e.g., termination of collaboration with a service provider Evonik Group. We drive forward and monitor implementation a warning or reprimand, and one employee was transferred to or termination of a contract. c In 2018, criminal or civil proceedings were initiated in a total of seven cases; separate of our security measures for the operation and use of office IT a different position. In two cases, training or other action to data are not available. with the aid of an internal control system. This ensures we keep enhance awareness was undertaken. Security consulting was a constant eye on the present threats and align our security meaprovided in ten cases. Criminal proceedings were initiated in sures to them. The cybersecurity performance of Evonik and of three cases and civil proceedings were initiated in two cases. our critical suppliers is measured and evaluated by BitSight, an external rating agency that uses standardized parameters for this. 32 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EVONIK Governance and compliance Our targets To identify and counter cyberattacks, we invest continuously in management at Evonik is to ensure compliance with the regulaOur targets technical and organizational measures as part of a special cybertions, support the organizational units in implementing them, and security enforcement program. In 2019, we installed our our own monitor the correct use of software used to process personal Below is an overview of the targets set for cybersecurity operation center. This brings together all important data. In 2019, Evonik did not receive any complaints relating to our governance and compliance area of action. operational IT security functions and operates worldwide. Our the loss or incorrect protection of customer data. 418-1 The targets defined for 2020 and beyond have computer emergency response team (CERT) is part of the cyberbeen sharpened and streamlined to enhance their security operation center. It is based in Germany and is responsible Donations and sponsorship strategic relevance. for identifying and dealing with IT security issues. The executive board defines the aims and conditions for the Group’s donations and sponsorship. It has delegated coordination We carry out penetration tests in order to check and steadily and monitoring to the Board Office/Communications division Target attainment in 2019 improve the security of our IT systems. We regularly train on the basis of specific policies and guidelines. For example, employees and raise their awareness of cyber threats. Timely individual donations of supra-regional significance and sponsorinformation on current security threats is communicated via our ship from a threshold of € 100,000 require the approval of the Proportion of female executive board members: intranet. In addition, we are a member of various professional executive board. The segments and regions can decide on 25 percent up to June 30, 2022 1 cybersecurity associations and working groups. regional and site-specific activities within an annual budget approved by the executive board. At the Evonik Foundation, the Women at the first and second management levels Supplementary IT security rules have been introduced for promanagement is responsible for coordinating and supervising below the executive board: 20 percent at each level by duction systems (operational technology) and we have started to donations. The executive board of the Evonik Foundation defines year-end 2019 implement the requirements in our production facilities. Further the areas of focus. details will be provided in the future. Structure and implement the revised internal regulations The Evonik Group made many donations and was involved in on gifts and hospitality, focusing on the implementation Management of data protection many sponsorship projects in the reporting period (see chapter of anti-money laundering regulations 1 Increasing global data sharing at Evonik requires additional tech“Society” p. 78). These included donations totaling € 210,000 nical and organizational security measures. These are monitored to political parties in Germany. Of this amount, € 90,000 was Introduce uniform Group-wide standards on continuously. Target group-specific data protection training of donated to the CDU, € 80,000 to the SPD, and € 20,000 each to monitoring business partners 1 employees is mandatory. Information on the relevant requirethe FDP and Bündnis 90/Die Grünen. ments and responsibilities is available to all employees on the Update the rules on internal investigations 1 Evonik intranet. The organization of data protection and rules on In 2019, Evonik renewed and refined its entry in the Trans­ reliable processing of personal data, including customer data, are parency Register, the list of lobbyists maintained jointly by the set out, among other things, in the compliance policy and the European Commission and European Parliament. group-wide data protection policy. The aim of data protection 102-25, 103-2, 102-27 Target for 2020 and beyond 27.3 percent women at the first management level below the executive board and 25 percent at the second management level by year-end 2020 Target not achieved 1 Since we streamlined and sharpened our targets with a view to strategic relevance in 2019, we have not set targets for 2020 and beyond. Target partially achieved or target horizon extends beyond 2019 We will continue to work on these objectives and to report on them. Target achieved 33 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EVONIK Value chain and products VALUE CHAIN AND PRODUCTS We drive forward our sustainability activities along the value chain in dialogue with our stakeholders. In addition to our own production and business processes, we always have an eye on the supply chain for our raw materials, goods, and services and on product benefits and applications for customers. Our innovative products help our customers meet their sustain­ability goals. SDGs of relevance for the Evonik Group KEY TOPICS • Responsibility within the supply chain • R&D/innovation • Efficient use of scarce resources/circular economy • Sustainable products/solutions for our customers • Product stewardship 66% 13% > 85% Percentage of raw material Percentage of sales Percentage of risk estimates suppliers 1 covered by generated with products/ for substances placed on TfS assessments applications developed the market in quantities of in the past five years > 1 metric ton p.a. 1 Annual procurement volume > € 100 thousand. 34 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EVONIK Value chain and products Responsibility within the supply chain VALUE CHAIN AND PRODUCTS Responsibility within the The aim of our procurement organization is to guarantee supply chain long-term reliability of supply for the production of Evonik products and to secure competitive advantages for our operating 34 Responsibility within 102-9, 102-10, 103-2, businesses. Alongside economic requirements, our procurement the supply chain 204-1, 308-1, 308-2, Evonik has a significant influence on society and the 414-1, 414-2, 407-1, strategy takes account of criteria such as health, quality, safety, environment through its procurement volume. We 408-1 social factors, and environmental protection. As a member of 34 Strategy and management are aware of this responsibility. We continuously the UN Global Compact, we are committed to its principles. 35 Validation and evaluation drive forward transparency and sustainability along These requirements are documented in our code of conduct for of suppliers the supply chain. suppliers, which is based on our corporate values, the principles 36 Our activities in 2019 37 Research & development/ 201-4 of the UN Global Compact, the International Labour Standards innovation Strategy and management issued by the International Labour Organization (ILO), and the 37 Strategy and management By selecting suppliers carefully, we do not simply secure and topics addressed by the Responsible Care® initiative. 39 Our activities in 2019 increase their sustainability standards, we also enhance the 39 Efficient use of scarce 301-1, 102-44 quality of the entire value chain. On the one hand, we focus Evonik’s procurement organization C17 resources/circular economy on validating and evaluating suppliers, while on the other, we 39 Strategy and management specifically monitor suppliers of certain critical raw materials. Executive Board 40 Conflict minerals, We define critical raw materials as all raw materials that could renewable raw materials, palm oil Head of Procurement potentially involve a supply risk or reputational risk, for example, 41  CASE STUDY: VESTENAMER® conflict minerals and renewable raw materials, including palm turns used tires into a Global & oil. We have established special procurement strategies and Western Europe, North America, valuable resource Asia-Pacific Asia-Pacific risk management systems for these critical raw materials. These Eastern Europe, Central & North South 42 Circular economy processes are integrated into a management system, where Middle East & South America Africa 43 Sustainable products 102-2, 102-6, 102-44 they are mapped. We have extended our previous target of solutions for our customers performing a sustainability evaluation of 90 percent of suppliers Direct procurement 43 Strategy and management of critical raw materials by the end of 2020. We now aim to have 44  CASE STUDY: Ingredients reviewed the sustainability of all major 1 suppliers of raw materials Indirect procurement for the cosmetic industry by the end of 2025. 45 Product stewardship 102-2, 413-2, 416-1, 416-2, 417-1 Continuous dialogue with our suppliers is very important to help Procurement is organized globally at Evonik and comprises 45 Strategy and management us live up to our responsibility. In addition to direct contact to direct procurement (raw materials, logistics, and packaging) and 46 Our activities in 2019 Evonik’s procurement organization, employees at supplier comindirect procurement (general and technical goods and services). 46 Microplastics Animal protection panies always have the option of reporting any issues or probBoth are subdivided into strategic and operational procureEndocrine disruptors lems to our externally operated whistleblower hotline. All cases ment activities. Global procurement is managed from Germany, PBT/PMT are examined promptly so that appropriate action can be taken. with the support of regional units in Asia and in North and Nanotechnology We did not receive any such reports from our suppliers in 2019. South America. Biotechnology 48 Our targets 102-14, 102-15 1 Annual procurement volume > € 100 thousand. 35 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EVONIK Value chain and products Responsibility within the supply chain Validation and evaluation of our suppliers is an integral part of Supplier validation and evaluation C18 sustainable supply chain management at Evonik. The validation of new suppliers includes checking that they meet the requireBefore entering into a During the business relationship ments of our code of conduct for suppliers. In our evaluation of business relationship suppliers, special attention is paid to our strategic suppliers and suppliers of strategic raw materials. We work systematically both Supplier TfS audits Supplier evaluation validation a to extend strategic relationships with suppliers and to validate Supplier development new suppliers. To supplement our code of conduct for suppliers, our approach includes self-assessments, audits, and validation of TfS assessments a TfS assessments Risk evaluation suppliers through Together for Sustainability. Evonik Code of Conduct for Suppliers Together for Sustainability Harmonizing global standards in the supply chain creates transparency and makes it easier for both suppliers and customers TfS process. Evonik process. a Alternatives to reliably assess and evaluate sustainability performance. The chemical industry set up the Together for Sustainability (TfS) initiative for this purpose in 2011. Evonik is one of the six foundAll suppliers are informed about corruption prevention and the Optimization of construction and technical services continued in ing members of this initiative. The aim of TfS is the joint develrelated measures in our code of conduct for suppliers and our 2019 in order to address the challenges resulting from the skills opment and implementation of a global assessment and audit general terms and conditions of purchase. In 2019, we evaluated shortage and the construction boom in Germany. Here, we made program for responsible procurement of goods and services. 2,000 new suppliers (nearly 90 percent). significant progress in validating new suppliers and extending As well as helping to make environmental and social standards long-term supply relationships. measurable, TfS contributes to improving them. Successfully completed TfS assessments can also be used as evi102-16, 103-2, 407-1, 408-1, 409-1 , 414-1, 414-2 dence of validation. Overall, suppliers are evaluated using a Validation and evaluation of suppliers method that identifies and quantifies risk factors. The aim is to We expect our suppliers to share our principles and to act safeguard the supply of raw materials and technical goods to correctly in all respects, which means accepting responsibility Evonik and gain access to new procurement markets and supplitowards their employees, business partners, society, and the ers. In the reporting period, TfS assessments were performed on environment. Validation is the first step in every new supply 68 new suppliers of raw materials, technical goods, and services. relationship. For this purpose, we use a validation process based on the values defined in our code of conduct for suppliers. We apply the same care to the evaluation of existing relationships Alongside quality, environmental protection, safety, health, and with suppliers. Strategic suppliers are examined regularly as a energy management, the assessment of potential risk factors basis for initiating improvements where necessary. To minimize includes corruption prevention, cybersecurity, labor and social the risk to Evonik, as part of our management of contractors, standards (the right to freedom of association and collective evidence, and self-assessments on compliance with the relevant bargaining), human rights (compulsory, forced, or child labor), German legislation (MiLOG, AEntG, SGB, and HwO) 1 were conflict minerals, and responsibility within the supply chain. All obtained and evaluated. 1 MiLoG = German Minimum Wage Act; AEntG = German Employee Secondment Act; details are entered online and evaluated using a validation matrix. SGB = German Social Code; HwO = German Ordinance on Craftsmen. 36 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EVONIK Value chain and products Responsibility within the supply chain Audit escalation process C19 audits. In seven cases, supplier assessments showed that insufficient attention had been paid to sustainability aspects. In these Supplier audits cases as well, corrective action was initiated. Shortcomings in the implementation of environmental measures and potential for improvement in occupational safety were also identified in 2019 No shortcomings Minor shortcomings Major or critical shortcomings at suppliers audited by TfS. None of the suppliers evaluated had significant negative impacts on the environment, nor was the Draw up a corrective action plan scope to improve social aspects of their business activities classified as significant. No cases of child labor or forced labor Implement the corrective action plan within 12 months were identified in on-site inspections, and there were no cases of discrimination or restriction on the freedom of association. 407-1, 103-2, 408-1, 409-1, 204-1 No/minor shortcomings Major/critical shortcomings a Audit valid for 36 months Re-audit after 12 months a If the shortcomings are particularly serious and no improvement can be identified, we reserve the right to end our collaboration with the supplier. There is a clear and structured process for supplier audits, Worldwide, the TfS member companies initiated 309 audits and including various escalation steps (see chart C19 Audit escalation around 1,043 assessments in 2019. Evonik initiated 26 of these process). If shortcomings are identified, we expect our suppliers audits and 117 of the assessments. About 80 percent of our direct to implement corrective action plans within a defined timeframe. and over 50 percent of our indirect procurement volume was If the shortcomings are particularly serious and no improvement covered by TfS assessments. 2 can be identified, we reserve the right to end our collaboration with the supplier. In 2019, we evaluated around 92 percent (2018: 83 percent) of suppliers of critical raw materials on the basis of sustainability Our activities in 2019 criteria. These criteria include country risks, the supply situation, In 2019, we sourced raw materials and supplies, technical goods, and market availability. TfS assessments and audits were also services, energy, and other operating supplies with a total value used to review further significant suppliers. In addition, 66 perof around €9.4 billion (2018: € 9.9 billion) from around 30,000 cent of all significant suppliers of raw materials have already suppliers. Local sourcing 1 accounted for around 77 percent of this been reviewed using sustainability criteria. amount (2018: 76 percent). Raw materials and supplies accounted for 55 percent of procurement volume (2018: 60 percent). A particular focus in 2019 was the process of following up Spending on petrochemical feedstocks was around €3.4 billion on audits and assessments. Corrective action was initiated with and accounted for 60 percent of our raw material base. 19 suppliers, where major or critical issues were identified during 1 For us, local sourcing means deliberate procurement from sources that are geographically close to our production sites. 2 For further information see www.tfs-initiative.com 37 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EVONIK Value chain and products Research & development/innovation Supplier validation, assessments, and audits, including corrective action 414-1, 414-2 T05 Research & development/ 2018 2019 innovation No. of new suppliers evaluated 1,357 2,049 A combination of innovative capability and proximity Based on environmental criteria 1.357 2,049 to customers is a key success factor for Evonik and Based on social criteria 1,357 2,049 drives profitable growth. Within the growth engines No. of new and established suppliers evaluated 1,508 2,192 of relevance for Evonik—Specialty Additives, Animal Based on environmental criteria 1,508 2,192 Nutrition, Health & Care, and Smart Materials—we Based on social criteria 1,508 2,192 identify future-oriented innovation growth fields, No. of suppliers audited where a need for corrective action was identified 26 26 which we use to achieve our ambitious targets. a thereof % of suppliers where significant actual or potentially negative impacts were identified 0 0 % of suppliers with whom corrective action plans (CAP) were agreed 85 100 Strategy and management % of suppliers where the supply relationship was terminated as a result of the evaluation 0 0 Evonik’s vision is to be an innovation leader. We have therefore a defined clear and ambitious targets. Our guiding principles on Zero percent environmental impacts, zero percent social impacts. innovation help us meet these targets. We see Evonik as an open and learning organization with a constructive approach to The total of 2,192 suppliers evaluated comprises audits, assessReducing carbon emissions along the upstream value chain errors. Sustainability is an important aspect of our innovation ments, and supplier validations performed by TfS and directly by Scope 3 emissions along the upstream value chain are of special activities. We work with customers and external partners across Evonik. interest with a view to our climate targets. Evonik therefore set internal departmental boundaries and provide incentives for new up a team of experts in the reporting period. As the first step, it discoveries so that good ideas can be turned into marketable Active involvement in TfS is important to us. Evonik employees contacted suppliers of our key raw materials asking them to list the innovations. Research and development (R&D) in our strategic are represented on TfS workstreams in Germany, North and “carbon backpack” of the raw materials supplied. Together with innovation unit Creavis and in the Nutrition & Care and Resource South America, and Asia. In 2019, Evonik organized a TfS con­ the operating units, the project team is also gathering ideas on Efficiency segments is aligned to six innovation growth fields: ference on sustainability within the supply chain in Shanghai the use of alternative raw materials and production technologies. (China). As a member of the initiative, Evonik is also subject to • Sustainable Nutrition: establishing additional products and TfS assessments. Our gold rating positioned us among the topservices for sustainable nutrition of livestock and people rated companies in 2019. Evonik also supported the sustainability • Healthcare Solutions: developing new materials for implants, in the supply chain pilot project run by Chemie3, the sustainability as components of cell culture media, and for custom-tailored, initiative of the German Chemical Industry Association (VCI). innovative drug formulations • Advanced Food Ingredients: creating a portfolio of healthenhancing substances and nutritional supplements as a contribution to healthy nutrition • Membranes: extending SEPURAN® technology for efficient gas separation to further applications 38 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EVONIK Value chain and products Research & development/innovation • Cosmetic Solutions: developing further products based businesses. Equal attention is paid to product and process innoBreakdown of R&D expenses C20 on natural sources for cosmetics and sensorially optimized vations, business model and systems innovations, and environformulations for skincare products mental and climate protection. Other • Additive Manufacturing: developing products and technoloCreavis gies for additive manufacturing Our project portfolio is aligned to the differing strategies of the Nutrition & Care various business lines and we focus on growth engines with high Performance Materials We aim to generate additional sales of over € 1 billion with these sustainability benefits. During the reporting period, we started to innovation growth fields by 2025. We are making good progress. evaluate selected innovation projects using the World Business Our goal is to increase sales generated with products and Council for Sustainable Development’s PSA 1 model. We have applications developed in the past five years to 16 percent in the performed sustainability analyses of our products since 2016. Resource Efficiency mid term. In 2019, such products and applications accounted for Since 2019, PARCs 2 have been used for this (see chapter “Strategy 13 percent of sales. and growth,” sustainability analysis of our business 2.0 p. 14). Evonik’s global R&D network comprises 38 locations with Organization and management approximately 2,560 R&D employees. R&D expenses declined Our operating segments account for around 85 percent of project houses at Creavis. Experts from the organizational units by 2 percent to €428 million in 2019 as a result of our continuous, our R&D expenses. That includes, first and foremost, research involved in the project house normally spend three years working target-oriented management. The ratio of R&D expenses to sales geared specifically to their core technologies and markets, together on the development issues on which the project was 3.3 percent (2018: 3.3 percent). Our R&D projects are and the development of new business. An above-average prohouse focuses. The products and technologies developed are ­managed using the multi-step Idea-to-Profit process developed portion of our R&D funding is allocated to the growth segments, subsequently marketed by one of the operating segments. Other by Evonik to support the systematic development of projects Nutrition & Care and Resource Efficiency. The Performance possible options are setting up a competence center or an right up to profitable commercialization. In the reporting period, Materials segment focuses on process optimization and product internal start-up. In all, Evonik has set up twelve project houses some of our projects received funding from the European Union improvements. since 2000. At present, the Singapore-based Tissue Engineering or the Federal Republic of Germany. In all, we received funding project house in the Healthcare Solutions innovation growth of around € 4.2 million. Our strategic innovation unit, Creavis, focuses on midto longfield is working on new solutions for the regeneration of human term innovation projects that support Evonik’s growth and sustissue after an accident or illness. The aim is to produce materials Evonik has an extensive patent strategy to protect new products tainability strategy and open up new business options. It works for biological implants for medical applications. Research into and processes. The value and quality of our patent portfolio on transformative innovations, taking economic, ecological, and optimized approaches to skin models with better predictive have increased steadily in recent years. Around 225 new patent social aspects into account in the management of the portfolio power and scalability and excellent reproducibility is currently applications were submitted in 2019, and we had around 24,000 (I2P3® process). Creavis also identifies future topics and serves as being carried out for the Cosmetic Solutions innovation growth patents and pending patents. Patent-driven sales accounted for an internal incubator. Using scenario methods, our scientists have field. These approaches will be used in laboratory research and 47 percent of total sales. developed future visions for specialty chemicals. This is testing, for example, to test active ingredients for cosmetics, the biggest study of its type in the world and Evonik intends cleaning agents, and chemicals. Evonik also obtains access to Innovation and sustainability to use the results to initiate timely and purposeful innovations. innovative technologies and new business options through its Our innovation pipeline includes both completely new business In addition, long-term strategies can be measured against the corporate venture capital activities. We invest specifically in options and securing and enhancing the prospects of existing scenarios and refined. Innovation projects that are cross-organispecialized technology funds and start-ups of strategic relevance zational or build up competencies for Evonik are explored in to Evonik. That gives us an insight into innovative developments 1 PSA = Portfolio Sustainability Assessment. 2 PARC = Product-application-region combination. 39 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EVONIK Value chain and products Efficient use of scarce resources/circular economy at an early stage. Projects with our partners enable us to work on cells. The biofabricated material produced by this animal-free Efficient use of scarce resources/ new products and technologies, which increases the pace of innovation. Around 30 investments have been made since 2012. method more closely resembles natural leather than synthetic equivalents. circular economy https://venturing.evonik.com/sites/venturing/en/direct-investments/ The biggest direct influence on sustainability Evonik and Siemens have embarked on Rheticus II 2, a joint requirements in the value chain comes from our Our activities in 2019 research project that aims to develop an efficient and powerful The Veramis joint venture in Delft (Netherlands) created from test facility to produce specialty chemicals with the aid of bacteproduction and business processes and the prothe research collaboration between Evonik and Royal DSM has ria—using carbon dioxide, water, and electricity from renewable ducts we market. In many cases, we develop and developed a process to produce the omega-3 fatty acids EPA 1 sources. In the Rheticus I 3 project, the two companies previously use our own production processes that enable and DHA 1 for the nutrition of salmon in aquaculture. This means worked for two years to develop the technically feasible basis us to combine efficient processes, careful use of that fish oil obtained from wild fish is no longer necessary, for this artificial photosynthesis process using a bioreactor and resources, and innovative capability. thereby protecting this natural resource. A new production facility electrolyzer. Evonik and Siemens are now combining these two came on stream as planned in Blair (Nebraska, USA) in mid-2019. previously separate plants in a test facility at Evonik’s site in Strategy and management Marl (Germany). At many of our sites, we have backwardly integrated production Evonik has entered into extensive cooperation arrangements complexes where key precursors are produced in adjacent proto develop new products with sustainability features. A research As part of the European Union’s Horizon 2020 research program, duction facilities. That ensures high reliability of supply for our agreement has been signed with specialty chemicals company Evonik and nine project partners from five countries have succustomers. Our world-scale facilities are also a high entry barrier Perstorp (Malmö, Sweden) to develop new animal nutrition ceeded in developing a novel new reactor to catalyze OXO reacfor potential competitors. products that reduce dependence on antibiotic growth promoters. tions (Reactor Optimization by Membrane Enhanced Operation project “ROMEO“ 4). The new reactor reduces CO2 emissions We generate 83 percent of our sales outside Germany. That We also have an exclusive technology partnership with Dow by around 70 percent compared with the conventional proshows the global focus of our business. We have production Chemicals. Together, we plan to develop a process for direct cess—a clear step towards more sustainable production. facilities in 26 countries on six continents and are therefore close synthesis of propylene glycol (PG) from propylene and hydrogen to our markets and our customers. Our largest production sites— peroxide to market maturity. The key element is a new catalytic Marl, Wesseling, and Rheinfelden (Germany), Antwerp (Belgium), system that enables direct synthesis of PG from propylene and Mobile (Alabama, USA), Shanghai (China) and Singapore—have hydrogen peroxide in a process that generates high yields with integrated technology platforms, most of which are used by comparatively low energy consumption. 103-2 several units. This results in valuable economies of scale and very good use of material flows. In this way, we make a contribution Our corporate venture capital unit has invested in a start-up to the circular economy. Continuous process optimization and the for sustainable production of biofabricated material inspired by efficient use of resources have always been very important for leather, eliminating the need for animal skins. The technology our production activities. developed by Modern Meadow, Nutley (New Jersey, USA) produces animal-free collagen via a fermentation process using yeast 1 EPA = eicosapentaenoic acid, DHA = docosahexaenoic acid. 2 Rheticus II: funded by the Federal Ministry of Education and Research; funding reference 03SF0574A. 3 Rheticus I: funded by the Federal Ministry of Education and Research; funding reference 03SF0548A. 4 Funding reference 680395. 40 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EVONIK Value chain and products Efficient use of scarce resources/circular economy Production inputs and output 1 raw materials are classed as critical raw materials for procurement and segregated (SG) standards. This shows that our organizaEvonik uses a wide range of raw materials in the production of its purposes, especially with a view to reliability of supply. Consetional structure at these sites meets the RSPO requirements, products. Like technical goods and services, they are sourced quently, they are subject to a special examination. which is a basic precondition for the continuous transition to from a variety of suppliers. Production inputs decreased from ­certified raw materials. We are extending our portfolio of RSPO-­ 9.86 million metric tons to 9.24 million metric tons in 2019. We endeavor to raise the proportion of renewable raw materials certified products in collaboration with our customers and supExcluding the methacrylates business, which has been divested, wherever this makes sense from a technical, economic, eco­ pliers. The Care Solutions business line already markets over production output was 9.16 million metric tons. Evonik already logical, and social perspective. In view of the rising significance 100 products that ­conform to RSPO standards. In Europe, Care has a strong focus on re-usable packaging materials for its prodof renewable raw materials for our customers and in public Solutions has switched two products based on pure palm oil or ucts. For instance, we collect steel and plastic drums at our sites. debate, this topic is discussed by our specialists in our internal palm kernel oil to the SG standard. Through the supply and labelThey are reconditioned for re-use as packaging. We constantly expert circle on renewable raw materials. ing of certified products, this provides strong support for the strive to increase the proportion of recyclable packaging. 301-1 RSPO’s goals of transition to sustainable supply chains. In addiIn 2019, renewable raw materials accounted for 7.9 percent of tion, this has greatly increased demand from major cosmetic proConflict minerals production inputs (2018: 9.7 percent). This is attributable to a ducers and retail chains for RSPO-­certified products. However, The Dodd-Frank Act requires companies listed on the US stock reduction in the use of sugar by Animal Nutrition at the site in there are massive regional variations in the supply of certified market to disclose whether their products contain potential Blair (Nebraska, USA). derivatives—often coupled with higher prices, higher take-off conflict minerals. These are mineral raw materials from the guarantees, or restricted availability of suppliers. That entails Democratic Republic of Congo and its neighboring countries that Palm oil uncertainty in meeting demand. Care Solutions therefore continare often used to finance armed conflicts. In addition, human Palm oil plantations can have negative effects on the environuously screens supply on the market and is stepping up pressure rights are often violated in the production of conflict minerals. ment and local inhabitants. In view of this, Evonik supports the on direct pre-suppliers so that it can switch products globally to use of sustainable palm oil in the supply chain. We therefore use the MB standard. Evonik is not listed on US stock exchanges and therefore has no internationally recognized certification standards. We have been legal obligation to comply with the reporting requirements of the a member of the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) To enhance transparency, since the end of 2019, we have indiUS stock market regulator. Nevertheless, we believe we have a since 2010. In cooperation with customers, our Care Solutions cated all RSPO-certified products in the tradename. Our expert responsibility to check the origin of such substances sourced business line has defined additional supply chain criteria such circle is drawing up recommendations for the Evonik Group from established suppliers. In addition, we require new suppliers as traceability to palm oil plantations or refineries. Strategy, and working on external monitoring of suppliers. To implement to provide evidence of origin in the validation process. In 2019, objectives, and activities such as Evonik’s palm oil roadmap are the no-deforestation policy (NDP) among direct suppliers to we screened around 2,000 new suppliers and did not identify discussed internally by our expert circle. We publish our activities the Care Solutions business line, an external study was com­ any use of conflict minerals. and our targets to promote sustainable palm oil production in the missioned. As a result, many of our suppliers have already introRSPO’s annual progress report. duced corresponding targets and measures. Complexity and Renewable raw materials 1 ongoing changes mean that continuous monitoring of the supply In its production processes, Evonik uses dextrose and saccharose, Evonik uses small amounts of palm oil, palm kernel oil, and their chain back to the refinery or plantation is virtually impossible. mainly as substrates in the fermentative production of amino derivatives in production processes, for example, to produce A future goal for us is to participate in industry platforms on the acids. Natural fats and oils and their derivatives are used to proingredients for the cosmetic and consumer goods industries. transparency and integration of NDP palm oil derivatives. duce precursors for the cosmetics, detergents, and cleaning 20 production sites that use palm oil derivatives have already agents industries and in technical processing aids. Renewable been certified as conforming to the RSPO’s mass balance (MB) 1 See “About this report” p. 83, T29. 41 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EVONIK Value chain and products Efficient use of scarce resources/circular economy CASE STUDY Circular economy: VESTENAMER turns used tires into a valuable resource Environment-friendly disposal of tires is an ecological challenge. Around 26 million metric tons 1 of tires have to be disposed of every year, including around 4 million metric tons 1 in Europe. And the amount is rising. 2 In the past, tires that had reached the end of their useful life were either incinerated to generate For many years, VESTENAMER® has been used to reprocess energy or disposed of in landfills. Today, reprocessing is becoming more important. Rubber granulate rubber for use in railroad crossings, flooring, and mats. This patented CIRCULAR ECONOMY or ground rubber obtained from tires using sophisticated technology can reduce the use of key process also offers advantages in high-quality road construcOur stakeholders rank primary resources such as natural rubber and crude oil. Knock-on effects include less destruction of tion. In rubber-modified asphalt, in particular, blends containing efficient use of scarce the environment, reduced land use, and a reduction in carbon emissions compared with products VESTENAMER® reduce the formation of cracks and ruts and thereresources/circular that do not use reprocessed rubber. fore enhance the quality and durability of roads. At the same time, economy as one of the three most important VESTENAMER® is an answer to well-known processing challenges sustainability issues for VESTENAMER®, a process addibecause it makes the asphalt blend less sticky and improves sealing Evonik. 3 tive developed and marketed by properties. Evonik, improves the processing properties of rubber blends so In addition to conventional applications in technical rubber products such as hoses, profiles, molded rubber granulate and ground rubarticles, and the production of new tires, applications that use processed tire rubber are therefore of ber from scrap tires can be used special interest for VESTENAMER®. A change of attitude by tire producers is also being observed. efficiently to manufacture highIn the past, products with a proportion of rubber granulate or quality products. VESTENAMER® ground rubber were considered to be lower-quality products. improves the cost-effectiveness Now, more and more tire producers are using ground rubber. and quality of the rubber components and therefore helps create a The use of tire rubber in mats for livestock is a new applicasustainable circular economy. tion. In particular, such mats offer greater comfort for resting cattle, reduce injuries to joints, and provide heat insulation. The enhanced well-being of the animals increases productivity, VESTENAMER® (white granulate) so farmers benefit from higher milk yields. from Evonik facilitates efficient reprocessing of rubber (black granulate). The disposal of vast quantities of tires is an ecological problem. 1 WBCSD ELT Management State of Knowledge Report; January 2018. 2 Global Market for the Tire and Rubber Remediation and Recycling Industry; July 2018. 3 See our materiality analysis in the chapter “Strategy and growth” p. 21 f. 42 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EVONIK Value chain and products Efficient use of scarce resources/circular economy Circular economy forum in Berlin (Germany) was “Making the future go round— Circular economy has been part of our materiality analysis since The circular economy as an opportunity for Germany as a business 2017. A circular economy is an alternative to the conventional center” (see “Intensive dialogue in 2019” p. 19). The expert ­circle linear business model. Ideally, in a circular economy, materials are will be using the feedback and comments received from the more maintained at the highest possible level of the value chain and than 150 attendees on its work. undergo various cycles of production, use, recycling, and re-use. As a specialty chemicals company, we research and develop solutions for mechanical and chemical recycling. These include both the recycling of plastics and rubber, and the use of CO2 as a production input. In addition, Evonik is currently exploring the feasibility of recycling PET plastics. Our experts have also looked into quantitative evaluation of the circularity of selected Evonik products. Following intensive research, they decided to use the material circularity indicator developed by the Ellen MacArthur Foundation and Granta Design. This indicator is now calculated to evaluate the circularity of selected Evonik products. In addition to this, life cycle assessments are available as a basis for calculating the environmental impact of these Evonik products. The results will be used in the Evonik’s wide range of projects on plastics recycling was presented and keenly selection of production inputs and in the sustainability analysis of discussed at an expert workshop. our business (see chapter “Strategy and growth” p. 14). To enhance visibility and draw management’s attention to the In 2020, we will continue to closely monitor and actively shape opportunities and challenges of circularity at Evonik, a kick-off the development of a circular economy and report regularly on meeting was held for a strategy-oriented circular economy initiaour progress. These tasks will mainly be undertaken by the new tive. Subsequently, our existing task force was recast as an expert expert circle. In addition, we intend to drive forward the quanticircle on the circular economy. This was confirmed by the Global tative evaluation of the circularity of selected Evonik products. ESHQ Committee and has now been fully integrated into our ESHQ management approach. In view of the increasing significance of the circular economy in society and for Evonik, several workshops and other events on this topic were held in 2019. This included the brainstorming workshop “No time to waste” in Brussels (Belgium) and a workshop on polymer recycling in Marl (Germany). The motto of the Evonik Perspectives stakeholder 43 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EVONIK Value chain and products Sustainable products and solutions for our customers Sustainable products and Close collaboration with our customers 102-44 CO2eq avoided by using Evonik products solutions for our customers Leading market positions account for around of 80 percent of Evonik’s sales 1. Our aim is to be integrated into our customers’ Evonik markets a variety of products whose use makes a positive contribution to reducing greenhouse gas emissions compared supply chains where possible. That allows optimal alignment with conventional alternatives. The avoidance of greenhouse Demand from customers for products for energyof our research & development, production, marketing, and gases shown here results from applications for the following and resource-efficient applications is rising. distribution workflows to our customers’ requirements. Close four products/system solutions compared with established alterIn many businesses, sustainability is becoming contact to our stakeholders helps to improve our understanding natives: “green” tire technology, amino acids for animal nutrition, a growth driver. of market developments and customer requirements. At group foam stabilizers for insulating materials, and oil additives for level, we have a marketing and sales excellence (MSE) team that hydraulic fluids. The amounts stated are avoided over the Strategy and management offers special staff training and management tools to support application life cycle of the products, based on volume sales of We play a part in meeting the rising sustainability requirements our segments in the steady development of customer focus. the products manufactured by Evonik in the year given. of our markets. Our special strength is working in close partnerExamples include a digital approach for ongoing customer surveys The method used to compile the data is the WBCSD Avoided ship with our customers. That gives us a good basis, so we can and customer interaction. Emissions Guidance published in October 2013. The guidance ensure timely identification of promising developments in our was updated in 2017 and a second version was published. The markets and gain access to new growth areas. Evonik’s product Our cross-business industry teams also make an important conincrease in avoided greenhouse gas emissions in 2017 was due to portfolio ranges from high-quality intermediates to complex tribution to marketing. These teams pool solutions expertise higher sales volumes. In 2018, emissions avoided by using Evonik formulations and system solutions. Our markets cover a balanced for specific sectors or markets and provide a group-wide commuproducts increased further. This was due to higher volume sales spectrum, including pharmaceuticals, consumer and care prodnication platform for dialogue with customers. In this way, we of three of the four products evaluated. ucts, food and animal feed, paints and coatings, the automotive build expertise and at the same time increase our visibility in our industry, mechanical engineering, and construction. 102-44 key markets. Examples of our industry teams are Automotive, Food, Medical Technology, and Oil & Gas. None of the end-markets that we supply accounts for more than 20 percent of our sales. Evonik’s customers are mainly industrial companies that use our intermediates in their own products and Trend in greenhouse gas avoidance over the life cycle of applications of the Evonik products sold in the specified year a T06 solutions. Our operating segments make a key contribution to 2015 2016 2017 2018 enhancing the product benefits that differentiate our customers CO₂eq avoided in million metric tons 92.2 95.2 101.8 108.0 in the market and make them successful in global competition. a Figure for 2019 scheduled for publication in mid-2020 (see the brochure ”Evonik Carbon Footprint” on our website www.evonik.com/responsibility). Our in-depth knowledge of requirements, markets, and trends helps us tailor products individually to the specific needs of our customers. Regional specifics are taken into account through our numerous technology and competence centers. Alongside products and solutions, many of our businesses sell services along the entire value chain. A good example is our Animal Nutrition business line, with its broad range of specialist services. At Evonik, the operating businesses are responsible for customer relationship management, which is aligned to market and customer needs on a decentralized basis by our segments and business lines. 1 We define these as ranking 1st, 2nd, or 3rd in the relevant markets. 44 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EVONIK Value chain and products Sustainable products and solutions for our customers CASE STUDY Ingredients for the cosmetic industry Sustainability and naturalness are key success factors in the cosmetic industry. More and more consumers actively include climate protection and careful use of resources in their purchasing decisions. Producers and retail chains are responding to these new demands and aligning their portfolios accordingly. For suppliers of high-quality ingredients to the cosmetic industry, providing attractively priced firstEvonik has developed RHEANCE® One, a completely natural raw rate products is no longer enough. These days, they need to make their contribution to sustainability material for cosmetics that meets many of the demands made by producers and consumers. transparent and improve it constantly in collaboration with their customers. Evonik’s Care Solutions business line took steps to prepare for this at an early stage. Nearly 90 percent of the products currently marketed by Evonik for the personal care sector are based on a proportion of renewable raw materials. Life cycle analyses ensure the necessary transparency from the origin of the raw materials through the traded end-­product to SUSTAINABLE PRODUCTS what happens to potential decomposition products after use. According to our stakeholders, sustainable products/solutions When developing innovative new products, Evonik brings together for our customers is one of its technological knowledge of the areas of organics, silicones, biothe three most important sustainability issues for Evonik. 1 technology, and active ingredients to create integrated platform solutions. Applications range from hair and skin care, sunscreen, and bath and shower products to decorative cosmetics, anti-aging ingredients, and deodorants. Care Solutions generates the highest growth rates in its core European Evonik markets innovative solutions for market with natural cosmetics and alternative preservatives and has aligned its portfolio to this in resource-saving active ingredients. recent years. conformity of natural cosmetics enables cosmetic producers to take account of the needs of their High transparency for customers end-customers from the initial stages of product development and design. The convergence of sustainability requirements and digital technologies is a dominant issue in the market. The use of digital labels such as QR codes introduces opportunities for informed purchasing Evonik has many years of experience and proven expertise in resource-saving processes for a broad decisions using smartphones, which have hardly been used so far. Care Solutions has developed the spectrum of ingredients. That gives it a good basis for collaboration on new generations of innovaCAREtain® Toolbox 2, an information system that provides a wide range of facts and data. tive products and future-oriented solutions. In addition, Evonik’s web-based platform IntoBeauty provides greater transparency and innovative ideas. The main aim of this platform is to give business-to-business (B2B) customers a tool that 1 See our materiality analysis in the chapter “Strategy and growth” p. 21. simplifies the development of new products with an optimized ecological profile. Access to infor2 This tool is accessible by logging onto intobeauty.evonik.com. mation on the origin of raw materials and ingredients, RSPO certification 3, biodegradability, and the 3 Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil. 45 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EVONIK Value chain and products Product stewardship Product stewardship Responsible handling of chemicals Evonik evaluates its substances using its own Chemicals In the light of global trade in chemicals and chemical products, it Management System (CMS). This system, which was developed Product stewardship is a vital precondition for our is important to encourage broad communication on their safe in-house, supports us in global product evaluation, analogously business. It is our “license to operate.” It includes handling and use. We ensure this through an extensive worldto a life cycle assessment. The content of the CMS has been hartimely identification and evaluation of the potential wide information system. This includes information portals, monized with the GPS and REACH requirements. By the end of health and environmental risks in our portfolio. safety data sheets—not just for dangerous products—in more 2019, we had performed more than 85 percent of the required than 30 languages, technical data sheets, and extensive informaevaluations. Substances relating to acquisitions made since 2017 tion on our website. There are also 24/7 emergency hotlines, will be evaluated later. Strategy and management including an interpreting service, and email addresses. We therefore examine the entire value chain of each of our The Global Product Strategy (GPS) was introduced in 2006 products—from procurement of the raw materials to delivery to Our specialist departments provide advice for our customers by the International Council of Chemical Associations (ICCA) our industrial customers, who receive all relevant information on at all stages in the product life cycle, from selection of the to establish uniform global risk assessments for all substances the handling and disposal of our products. That includes, for raw materials through dealing with possible toxicological, produced or placed on the market in quantities exceeding 1 metric example, safety data sheets and technical information sheets. eco­toxicological, and physical chemistry risks and the resulting ton per year. Originally, these were to be supplemented by GPS exposure-based risks. Our advice also includes regulatory Safety Summaries as a readily accessible and easy-to-read source As well as complying with all statutory requirements such as requirements relating to the planned application, right up to of information on chemicals. the European chemicals regulation REACH 1 and the Globally transportation and disposal. Where necessary, we give customers Harmonized System of Classification and Labelling of Chemicals training in how to handle our products. The amount of data and information available on substances has (GHS), product stewardship at Evonik includes voluntary commitnow improved considerably, as shown by the final report on a ments that go beyond these regulations. Our chemicals management systems joint study by UN Environment and the ICCA. In 2019, the ICCA We evaluate all substances placed on the market (> 1 metric Board therefore decided to discontinue the GPS Safety SummaWe have been committed for many years to the international ton p.a.). Particularly dangerous substances are included from ries and the ICCA portal. Evonik has implemented this decision. Responsible Care® initiative and the Responsible Care® Global lower amounts. That allows a soundly based assessment of the However, the safety summaries for about 170 substances exceedCharter of the International Council of Chemical Associations risks. Where necessary, restrictions are placed on certain usage ing 100 metric tons p.a. remain available on our website. (ICCA), which includes the Global Product Strategy (GPS). The patterns or, in extreme cases, a complete ban is issued on use in key elements of our product stewardship have been defined in certain products. As an extension of the CMS, our Chemicals Management a product policy. To supplement this, an operating procedure ­SystemPLUS is used for products containing substances of very defines how these commitments are to be implemented withhigh concern. These are subject to a more detailed examination in Evonik, together with control mechanisms to monitor their to bring about a reduction in the negative impact on people and observance. 417-1, 103-2 the environment. Around 1 percent of our products currently meet the criteria for evaluation on the basis of CMSPLUS. 1 REACH = Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals. 46 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EVONIK Value chain and products Product stewardship Evonik is also involved in various national and international assoSome countries and regions are currently introducing chemicals is difficult to reach a clear assessment of how it will affect Evonik. ciations and initiatives engaged in the ongoing development of regulations with requirements similar to the REACH requireBased on the present draft, the main impact on Evonik would risk evaluation using criteria. ments in the EU. Examples are South Korea, Turkey, Taiwan, and relate to powders and nylon particles in leave-on cosmetics and the Eurasian Economic Union. Other countries, such as the USA, to surface-treated silica. Our activities in 2019 have also raised their standards significantly. Evonik is actively Under REACH, all substances produced, imported, or placed on monitoring the development of regulations worldwide and Evonik is actively supporting the approach taken by Cefic, which the market in the EU in quantities of more than 1 metric ton p.a. ensures that it implements them in the relevant regions. In 2019, is geared to producing a realistic draft restriction as a basis for have to be registered. Evonik supports the aim of protecting all relevant substances were successfully pre-registered in South discussion with the EU Commission and the member states. The health and the environment in the handling of chemicals. To Korea and pre-registration started in Turkey. Reports to the aim must be a restriction that makes sense, contains clear definiimplement the complex REACH requirements, we maintain a substance inventory in the Eurasian Economic Union are being tions and areas of applicability, and is based on the fundamental close dialogue with our suppliers and customers, as well as with made in parallel with this. principles of REACH. industry associations and authorities. The Globally Harmonized System (GHS) Evonik has been involved in the Zero Pellet Loss campaign since Following successful completion of registration, the focus for all The Globally Harmonized System of Classification and Labelling 2013 and became a signatory to Operation Clean Sweep in 2015. Evonik substances is shifting to the evaluation of dossiers and of Chemicals (GHS) initiated by the United Nations classifies The aim of these two global initiatives is to reduce pellet loss in substances, and to restriction and authorization. We constantly dangerous goods and substances for labeling on packaging and in production, processing, and transportation. Evonik also offers compare the substance lists published by the authorities with safety data sheets. The GHS is still not applied uniformly around alternatives that can replace microplastic particles in both rinseour own portfolio to ensure timely identification of any of our the world. We have therefore set up an in-house database to off and leave-on cosmetic products. substances that are affected. If such substances are identified, we gather information on progress, changes, and national requireexamine suitable measures. We also collaborate closely with our ments for internal communication. Evonik implements the GHS/ customers to work out the next steps. In addition, we examine CLP 1 requirements in all countries where they apply. the raw materials we procure. If any substances are categorized as being of very high concern or are on the list of potential Microplastics candidates, we discuss the steps to be taken with our suppliers or Pollution of the environment and especially aquatic systems by look for alternatives. We have set up email addresses for all plastics is a focus of public debate. Every year, 4.8 – 12.7 million REACH-related inquiries from customers and suppliers to ensure metric tons 2 of plastic waste, including microplastics, get into the they receive timely and full replies. world’s oceans. Microplastics can be added to products intentionally but can also be generated by the abrasion of plastics, for In 2019, our REACH activities concentrated on the evaluation of example, abrasion of tires and fragmentation of larger plastic items. dossiers and substances, and on reviewing and updating dossiers that have already been registered. This is based closely on the In January 2019, the European Chemicals Agency (ECHA) pubCefic action plan, which Evonik has signed. The review of all of lished a draft restriction on behalf of the European Commission Evonik’s approximately 1,300 dossiers with a view to enhancing on intentionally added microplastics. There was a public consulquality will take place stepwise up to year-end 2026. Progress tation on this draft between March and September 2019. Evonik will be outlined annually in this report and in a report to Cefic. took part in this both directly and via associations such as Cefic Evonik is not presently affected by authorizations. and VCI. Since the requirements and definitions are still unclear, it 1 CLP = Regulation EC No. 1272 /2008 on the classification, labelling and packaging of substances and mixtures. 2 Jenna R. Jambeck et al. 2015. Plastic waste inputs from land into the ocean. Science, vol. 347, no. 6223, pp. 768 – 771; DOI: https://doi.org/10.1126/science.1260352. 47 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EVONIK Value chain and products Product stewardship Animal protection PBT/PMT Biotechnology We need toxicological and ecotoxicological data to assess PBTs are substances with persistent bioaccumulative or toxic the safety of our products. As the first step, we examine all properties. PMTs are substances with persistent, mobile, and toxic alternatives to animal testing in detail (quantitative structureproperties. Evonik is working actively in national and European activity relationship analyses, analogies, literature, non-animal associations to define and obtain scientifically based data. The testing). We have therefore set up a task force in the Evonik background is the potential classification of substances that meet Group, for example, to pool expertise on in-silico methods, to these criteria as substances of very high concern (SVHC). evaluate in-vitro methods for the skin sensitization endpoint, and to examine the viability of test strategies. A first in-vitro Nanotechnology feasibility study for the respiratory tract sensitization endpoint Nanotechnology is a generic term covering a wide range of develhas been performed with an external partner. This project is opments and innovations as well as established technologies. being continued with financial support from Evonik. The initial Their common feature is the investigation, production, and use of findings indicate that the respiratory tract irritation endpoint minute structures measuring around 1 to 100 nanometers. Some should be pursued so that, in the future, substances can be tested have been known for many decades, while others are new develin vitro to evaluate irritation thresholds. Evonik is also a member opments. Nanomaterials used in products and efficient system of the European Partnership for Alternative Approaches to solutions for our customers make a substantial contribution to Evonik has many years’ expertise in fermentation processes such as the producAnimal Testing (EPPA) to drive forward cross-sector alternatives. environmental protection and climate protection. We handle the tion of omega-3 fatty acids from natural algae for use in aquaculture. associated technologies responsibly and utilize the possibilities www.veramaris.com. From a legal and scientific perspective, in many cases, tests on they offer. For example, we see considerable opportunities in animals are often the only way to meet the necessary data new materials for high-end batteries and energy-saving appli­ requirements. Evonik arranges for animal tests to be performed cations in the construction sector. Evonik utilizes the opportunities offered by biotechnology for only by test institutes that are validated in accordance with the efficient and environmentally compatible production processes applicable national and international legal provisions and ensures Based on our long-standing experience, we implement measures and innovative products. We use micro-organisms for biocatalysis that these tests meet a­ nimal protection standards. As a responsito protect employees, customers, and consumers in the handling processes and fermentative production processes. Biotechnology ble company, we have also drawn up our own animal protection of nanomaterials. These measures are based on the latest assessis used to produce essential amino acids, probiotics, nutritional guidelines. ment of the risks and dangers resulting from scientific investigasupplements, and pharmaceutical and cosmetic ingredients tions and epidemiological and toxicological studies. In addition, that are difficult or impossible to access through conventional Endocrine disruptors Evonik supports the establishment of new methods of investi­ chemical synthesis. Evonik has issued guidelines on safe and Endocrine disruptors are natural or chemical substances that gation aligned to the specific effects of nanomaterials, which responsible use of biotechnology. These meet our customers’ disrupt or alter regulation of the hormone system and can cause refine the evaluation of risks. We are also continuously investidesire for transparency, openness, and strict risk limitation. The lasting damage. The European Commission wants the present gating the potential hazards and safe handling of these materials. products have to be registered before they can be produced and regulations on biocides and pesticides containing relevant evaluplaced on the market. That requires detailed explanations of the ation criteria to be extended to other sectors such as cosmetics, We share the results of our research openly and transparently production processes and the micro-organisms used, as well as of toys, and chemicals. Evonik is working in national and European with our stakeholders. Representatives of Evonik take part in the safety aspects. organizations towards appropriate implementation of this issue. German government’s NanoDialog, where experts from industry, science, authorities, and industry associations discuss the opportunities and risks of nanotechnology. 48 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EVONIK Value chain and products Our targets Our targets Below is an overview of the targets set for our value chain and products area of action. The targets defined for 2020 and beyond have been sharpened and streamlined to enhance their strategic relevance. Target attainment in 2019 Targets for 2020 and beyond Responsibility within the supply chain Conduct at least 20 supplier sustainability audits p.a. under the shared audit principle of the Together for Sustainability initiative; 100 percent of all raw materials suppliers where annual we conducted 26 audits in 2019 procurement volume is > € 100 thousand to be covered by TfS assessments by year-end 2025 Continue the analysis of suppliers by reviewing at least 80 TfS assessments; in 2019, we conducted more than 100 TfS assessments Increase sales of products and applications developed in the Evaluate the sustainability performance of 90 percent of suppliers of critical raw materials by 2020; status in 2019: 92 percent 1 past five years to 16 percent in the mid term Research & development/innovation More than € 1 billion additional sales in the six innovation growth fields by 2025 (see section “Research and ­development” p. 37) Generate more than € 1 billion in additional sales by 2025 in our six innovation growth fields (see section headed “Research & development/innovation” p. 37) Establish a risk estimate for > 99 percent of substances placed on the market in quantities of > 1 metric ton p.a. by year-end 2020 Increase sales of products and applications developed in the past five years to 16 percent in the mid term; status in 2019: 13 percent (see section headed “Research & development/innovation” p. 37) Efficient use of scarce resources/circular economy Develop recommendations for action on palm oil, palm kernel oil, and their derivatives at Evonik 2 Target not achieved External monitoring of suppliers of renewable raw materials and in-house supplier criteria Target partially achieved or target horizon extends beyond 2019 Target achieved Product stewardship 1 We have defined a new target for evaluating the sustainability performance of suppliers Establish a risk estimate for > 99 percent of substances placed on the market in quantities of > 1 metric ton p.a. by the end of 2020; of critical raw materials by the end of 2025. See targets for 2020 and beyond. status in 2019: > 85 percent 2 Since we streamlined and sharpened our targets with a view to strategic relevance in 2019, we have not set targets for 2020 and beyond. We will continue to work on these objectives and to report on them. Conduct a more far-reaching assessment of all products containing > 0.1 percent hazardous chemicals of high concern (hChC) 3; 3 hChC = hazardous chemicals of high concern. e.g., CMR 4 1A/1B, PBT 5 (CMSPLUS) 4 CMR = carcinogenic, mutagenic, reprotoxic. 5 PBT = persistent, bioaccumulative, toxic. 49 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EVONIK The environment THE ENVIRONMENT Protecting our environment and the climate are major global challenges of our age. Maintaining the natural basis of life for future generations is part of our corporate responsibility. That includes continuously reducing emissions in keeping with our sustainability strategy. SDGs of relevance for Evonik KEY TOPICS • Climate change • Water management • Waste management • Biodiversity – 42% € 50 Reduction in scope 1 and 2 per metric ton greenhouse gas emissions Carbon pricing to manage (reference base: 2008) our investments 1 We assume that market pricing or regulatory price systems of at least € 50 per metric ton CO2 will be established in all Evonik regions in ten years at the latest. We have drafted scenarios for the development of prices on the basis of the different regional starting points. 50 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EVONIK The environment The environment THE ENVIRONMENT The environment In 2019, we introduced our new global server-based platform ESTER (Evonik Standard Tool ESHQ and Reporting). We expect As a specialty chemicals company, we are aware that this to bring considerable benefits by simplifying and enhancing 50 The environment 50 Strategy and management our production may possibly impact the environment. the transparency of core ESHQ processes and data collection. 51 Our previous environmental targets We take many steps to minimize this. According to The software platform was configured in the first half of 2019, 52 Validation and environmental our materiality analysis, climate change is one of followed by the global rollout. The modules introduced in the protection costs the three most important sustainability issues. Other first phase were incident management, management of change, hazard assessment, and legal compliance. The rollout started in 52 Climate change 201-2, 302-1, 305-1, significant environmental issues are water manage305-2, 305-3, 305-4, North America, followed by Europe and Asia. We aim to comment, waste management, and biodiversity. The 305-5, 305-6, 305-7 plete the rollout to all Evonik locations by mid-2020. 52 Strategy and management importance of our environment area of action is 53 CASE STUDY: also reflected in three of the SDGs of relevance for Our global ESHQ strategy is defined by the HR Executive ComIncreasing energy efficiency Evonik: responsible consumption and production mittee, which comprises the chief human resources officer, the cuts emissions (SDG 12), climate action (SDG 13), and clean water industrial relations directors of the segments, and the heads of 55 Carbon pricing and sanitation (SDG 6). Corporate ESHQ, Corporate Responsibility, and Corporate Human 55 Evonik Carbon Footprint Resources. Decisions on the implementation of this strategy are 56 Water management 103-2, 303-1, 303-2, Strategy and management taken by the ESHQ Panel. Alongside representatives of the seg303-3, 303-4, 303-5, Our actions are based on an extensive, integrated management ments, regions, and the technical committee, the ESHQ Panel 301-3 system for the environment, safety, health, and quality. This includes employee representatives. It is chaired by the head of the 56 Strategy and management applies to the whole of the Evonik Group and is based on legal Corporate ESHQ division, who reports directly to the responsible 56 Water data requirements and on internal policies and standard operating executive board member (the chief human resources officer). 57 Emissions into water procedures. In addition to meeting compliance requirements, we The Corporate ESHQ division bundles all group-wide strategic 58 Waste management 306-2 therefore support the continuous improvement of our environmanagement and coordination tasks in the environment area of 58 Strategy and management mental performance. In addition, we require our manufacturing action. The role of the Global ESHQ Committee is to regularly 58 Our activities in 2019 sites to be validated as conforming to ISO 14001, the internationdiscuss ESHQ issues and prepare decisions to be taken by the 59 Biodiversity 304-1 ally recognized environmental management standard. ESHQ Panel. It comprises the heads of ESHQ in the regions and 59 Strategy and management is chaired by the head of the Corporate ESHQ division. Subject 59 Our activities in 2019 The Corporate ESHQ (Environment, Safety, Health & Quality) experts are consulted on specific issues. 60 Our targets 102-14, 102-15 division uses a central audit system to regularly monitor implementation of our strategy and management system. Based on the Specialist knowledge of selected issues is bundled in the ESHQ findings and analyses of internal and external audits and site expert circles, which are convened as required. They are responinspections, talks are held on possible improvements and ways sible for proposing solutions to specific environmental issues. of implementing them. The executive board is informed annually These are then implemented by the operational and service units. of the outcome of the audits. The processes used to collect and A new expert circle on the circular economy was set up in 2019 process environmental data are subject to internal and external (see chapter “Value chain and products” p. 39). Other expert audits. Our high quality standards are backed up by regular circles deal with topics such as water stress, management & training. Data input is decentralized, and the data can be evaluated audits, and carbon pricing of investments (see also chart C05 on the basis of management units, legal structures, or regions. “Sustainability governance structure at Evonik” p. 12). 51 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EVONIK The environment The environment Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures Status of our environmental targets T07 Production waste decreased by 18 percent to 321,000 metric We are following the objectives of the Task Force on Climate-­ tons in 2019. Apart from the divestment of the methacrylates in % compared with 2012 2018 2019 Target 2020 related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) and the ongoing developbusiness, the main reason for this was a reduction in output of ment of established reporting standards with great interest. In Reduction in specific fermentation products. greenhouse gas emissions a – 17 – 17 – 12 keeping with its participation in CDP Climate Change and CDP Water Security, in 2019 Evonik again published detailed strateReduction in specific New environmental targets for the period to 2025 water intake –6 –5 – 10 gies, data, and development paths on climate change. The execSince we achieved our target for the reduction in specific utive board is regularly informed of the opportunities and risks a Includes both scope 1 and scope 2 emissions. Scope 2 emissions are calculated using greenhouse gas emissions ahead of schedule, the executive board the market-based method in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol. for the Evonik Group, including climate-related risks. Furtherintroduced new environmental targets in February 2019. more, in 2019, we specifically reminded our risk coordinators Our target now is a 50 percent reduction in absolute scope 1 and about the need to identify long-term risks and climate risks. In To sharpen our focus on specialty chemicals, on August 1, 2019 2 emissions by 2025, compared with the level in 2008—the the chapter “Basis of reporting” p. 82, climate-related informawe divested the methacrylates business (see “About this report” first full year after the establishment of Evonik. This affirms tion is summarized for the first time in the categories governance, p. 83). The methacrylates business, comprising large-volume our commitment to the Paris Agreement on Climate Change. strategy, risk management, and metrics and targets, in line with monomers such as methylmethacrylate (MMA), various specialty At present, we assume an average reduction in climate-relevant the TCFD structure. 1 monomers, and the PLEXIGLAS® brand of PMMA molding comemissions of 3 percent a year. The relatively short period up to pounds and semi-finished products, constituted a major line of 2025 reflects our view that it is not currently possible to predict Our previous environmental targets business. From an environmental perspective too, the impact of technological and regulatory developments beyond this date For the period 2013 – 2020, we set ambitious environmental the divestment is significant and had a major influence on the with sufficient certainty. In addition to this, by 2025 we intend to objectives for Evonik based, in each case, on one metric ton of development of our environmental indicators in 2019. Overall, it reduce the scope 3 emissions related to our raw material “backoutput (reference base: 2012): affected 15 production sites. Since separate management of the pack” by 15 percent (reference base: 2020). • Reduce specific greenhouse gas emissions by 12 percent methacrylates business was no longer undertaken in 2019, the • Reduce specific water intake by 10 percent presentation of the environmental data and the status of environIn place of our previous group-wide target for a reduction in mental targets in the reporting period only covers the continuing specific water intake, we are developing site-specific action plans. A further reduction in production waste was set as an additional operations (excluding the methacrylates business). As a result, the To take account of projections for climate change and socio-­ target. specific data for 2019 are no longer comparable with the data for economic developments, we are identifying the sites which will 2018. Specific net greenhouse gas emissions (market-based) were be most affected by water stress in the next 20 years. At these 0.6 metric tons CO2 equivalents per metric ton production output, sites, we want to take specific precautions: for example, we are a reduction of 17 percent compared with 2012. The methacrylates examining alternative cooling systems and transpor­tation options, business mainly used cooling circuits rather than once-through and the possibility of reducing the volume of process water. cooling systems. Consequently, the divestment of this business had relatively little impact on water intake in 2019. By contrast, it resulted in a sharp reduction in p ­ roduction output of 17 percent. That was the main reason for the 1 percentage point increase in specific water intake in 2019. 1 Outside the scope of the limited assurance review by PwC. 52 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EVONIK The environment Climate change Our stakeholder surveys indicate that interest in quantitative Climate change In our energy reporting, we distinguish between primary energy targets for waste has declined significantly. We attribute this to inputs, generally fossil fuels used to generate electricity and our success in recent years. Therefore, we have not set a new Climate change is one of the top three topics in steam, and secondary energy inputs. These mainly comprise target for waste. However, we will continue to work on our our materiality analysis. As well as producing purchased electricity and steam. We also use substitute fuels such waste profile. products that are sustainable and enhance effias thermal processing of by-products from production, waste, ciency for our customers, we are reducing our and sewage sludge. These declined from 11 percent to 9 percent Validation and environmental protection costs CO2 emissions by modernizing and renewing our of total net energy inputs in 2019. At the same time, consumption Audits of our segments, regions, and sites are conducted to of natural gas decreased considerably, dropping 8 percent to energy infrastructure. In the reporting period, monitor compliance with ISO 14001 validation at our production 37.03 petajoules. The drop in demand for these two fuels was we introduced carbon pricing as an additional locations. In 2019, 42 internal and external ESHQ audits were mainly attributable to the divestment of the methacrylates conducted worldwide. The proportion of output covered by investment criterion. business. The reduction in coal inputs was due to unscheduled validation varies because of the addition of new units. However, shutdowns at a coal-fired power plant at the chemical park in it is always between 95 and 100 percent. Strategy and management Marl (Germany). To offset this, a gas-fired power plant was used. Our target is to cut scope 1 and 2 emissions by 50 percent in 302-1, 103-2, 302-4, 305-1, 305-2, 305-3, 305-4, 305-6, 305-7 absolute terms by 2025 (compared with 2008). Use of alternative Environmental protection investment and operating costs T08 technologies and efficient production processes will help us Energy inputs T09 in € million 2017 2018 2019 achieve this. Operating costs for in petajoules 2017 2018 2019 environmental protection 310 309 289 We use a broad spectrum of technical and organizational Gaseous fossil fuels 38.12 40.37 37.03 Investment in measures to raise energy efficiency. Examples are co-generation Solid fossil fuels 18.13 17.38 16.18 environmental protection 42 46a 36 plants and the expansion of integrated structures linking chemical Liquid fossil fuels 0.25 0.34 0.24 production and energy generation. Third-party production a Data corrected due to the “fast close” process, see “About this report” p. 84. Substitute fuels 7.93 8.09 5.63 facilities are included in these measures. We also consider using a renewable energies. Many of our energy management systems Power, external input 20.15 19.07 17.93 In 2019, we invested € 36 million (2018: € 46 million) in meameet the high standards of ISO 50001. Power, external output 12.87 11.61 12.00 sures to achieve a further improvement in environmental protecSteam, external input 7.52 7.52 7.21 tion. Investment in environmental protection can fluctuate conEvonik is planning to erect a further gas and steam turbine power Steam, external output 8.36 8.24 8.73 siderably because it depends on specific projects. For example, in plant in Marl (Germany) to replace the last coal-fired power Energy input, gross b 92.10 92.75 84.22 2019 a new noise insulation wall was erected in Wesseling (Gerplant at this site by the end of 2022. This will reduce our CO2 Energy input, net many). In Schörfling (Austria), action was taken to avoid waste emissions by up to 1 million metric tons p.a. (see case study on (after subtraction of output) b 70.87 72.91 63.49 so that used solvents could be returned to the production proclimate change p. 53). At the same time, the new modern power Production in million metric tons 10.98 11.03 9.16 cess. and steam generation plant will be far better able to meet the Specific energy input, net 6.45 6.61 6.93 constantly fluctuating demand at the chemical park. In addition to Operating costs for environmental protection facilities decreased the chemical park in Marl, our other German sites will benefit from a Including captive hydroelectric and solar power. b Differences between the data and totals are due to rounding differences. to € 289 million in 2019 (2018: € 309 million). The substantial the new plant because they will ensure economical in-house drop in environmental protection and operating costs was mainly generation throughout Germany. attributable to the divestment of the methacrylates business. 53 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EVONIK The environment Climate change CASE STUDY Increasing energy efficiency cuts emissions Evonik is building a new, highly efficient gas and steam turbine power plant at the Marl Chemical Park to end coal-fired power generation there. Modernizing our power plants is an important step in the implementation of our climate strategy. Compared with 2008, we aim to halve our absolute greenhouse gas emissions by 2025. The new plant will provide a reliable long-term basis for ecoCLIMATE CHANGE nomical, future-oriented energy supply at Evonik’s largest production site. Both electricity and steam generation are important Evonik’s stakeholders rank for production at the Marl Chemical Park. The rated capacity of climate change/emissions into the new power plant will be 180 megawatts of electricity—the the air among the three most important sustainability issues equivalent of the power used by 500,000 homes. At the same for Evonik. 1 time, it will be able to generate up to 440 metric tons of steam an hour. The power plant will be highly flexible, so it can play a part in compensating for fluctuations in the amount of energy from renewable resources fed into the power network, which is a key building block in Germany’s new energy policy. In future, the steam network at the site will also supply district heating to around 2,000 homes. Investment in the new gas and steam turbine power plant will be in the triple-digit millions of euros. As the general contractor, Siemens Gas and Power is responsible for planning and erecting the entire power plant, including the new central View of the chemical park in Marl (Germany). control building. Evonik will operate the plant in conjunction with its existing gasThe contracts with our partner Siemens for the two-block power plant were signed at the end of fired power plants. August 2019. The highly efficient co-generation plant for electricity and steam is scheduled to come into service in 2022. Efficiency will be over 90 percent. That will put an end to coal-fired generation of power and steam at Evonik’s Marl site in Germany after more than 80 years and cut carbon emissions by up to 1 million metric tons a year. Direct annual greenhouse emissions by Evonik’s plants worldwide will be reduced by nearly a fifth. Model illustrating the new, highly efficient gas and turbine power plant to be built by Evonik at the 1 See our materiality analysis in the chapter “Strategy and growth” p. 21. chemical park in Marl (Germany). 54 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EVONIK The environment Climate change Demand for electricity dropped in 2019, mainly because of the The standard used to report our greenhouse gas emissions is the In 2019, the majority (99 percent) of greenhouse gases released divestment of the methacrylates business. This was also the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol Standard. We distinguish were carbon dioxide. The other greenhouse gases were domireason for the increase in the external output of electricity and between direct scope 1 emissions from energy generation and nated by dinitrogen oxide, which is generated in some production steam, since the divested plants were still integrated into Evonik’s production, and indirect scope 2 emissions from the purchase of processes. Carbon dioxide mainly results from the combustion energy system. In addition, some demand-driven declines in proelectricity and steam. External power inputs are reported using of the fossil fuels natural gas and coal. In 2019, they accounted duction in the continuing operations resulted in a drop in the the location-based and market-based methods. In accordance for 45 percent and 31 percent of scope 1 emissions respectively. demand for steam in 2019. Net total energy inputs declined subwith the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, in the location-based Further carbon dioxide emissions amounting to 14 percent of stantially, dropping 13 percent to 63.49 petajoules. method, carbon dioxide emissions from purchased power are the total in 2019 came from the combustion of substitute fuels calculated using country-specific average emission factors, while and 8 percent came from production processes such as the pro­ in the market-based method the individual emission factors of duction of hydrogen peroxide. Oil is insignificant as a fuel and is the power supplier are used. generally only used in auxiliary firing systems. The sum of scope 1 and net scope 2 (market-based) greenhouse Greenhouse gas emissions 305-1, 305-2, 305-4 T10 gas emissions decreased by 17 percent to 5.486 million metric in thousand metric tons CO2 equivalents a 2008 2012 2018 2019 tons of CO2 equivalents in 2019. The sharp decline was mainly Scope 1 due to the divestment of the methacrylates business. Scope 2 emissions are reported on a net basis by deducting electricity Carbon dioxide (CO₂) 8,938 5,879 5,636 4,859 and steam sold to third parties from the electricity and steam Methane (CH₄) 17 14 17 13 produced for captive use. Dinitrogen oxide (N₂O) 74 63 34 38 Fluorinated hydrocarbons (HFC) – 7 1.1 13.2 Greenhouse gas emissions have been reduced by 42 percent Total 9,029 5,964 5,689 4,923 compared with the reference base (2008). The sharp decline Scope 2 b between 2008 and 2012 was principally due to the divestment Power, external input, location-based – 2,668 2,398 c 2,261 of the carbon black activities in 2011. Considerable amounts of Power, external input, market-based 2,800 3,754 3,369 2,855 carbon dioxide were released during carbon black production. Power, external output 1,616 2,301 2,280 2,146 Evonik operates 24 facilities that fall within the scope of the Steam, external input 515 466 584 528 EU Emissions Trading System (EU ETS). The divestment of the Steam, external output 1,210 894 790 674 methacrylates business reduced the number of plants covered Total net scope 2 (market-based) b 489 1,025 882 563 by this trading system by six in 2019. The remaining plants that Greenhouse gas emissions, net (market-based) 9,519 6,989 6,571 5,486 fall within the scope of the EU ETS emitted 3.3 million metric Total reduction in scope 1/scope 2 emissions compared with tons of CO2 in 2019 (2018, including the methacrylates business: the reference year (2008) in % 0 – 27 – 31 – 42 3.9 million metric tons). a Global warming potential factors for a 100-year period for 2008 – 2017 based on the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPPC) 1995 and 2018 ff. based on IPPC 2007. b Net scope 2 emissions = power and steam sourced externally less power and steam supplied to third parties. The net figure shows the position after subtracting electricity and steam supplied to third parties from total inputs. That enables us to eliminate the proportion of CO2 emissions attributable to third parties at our large multi-user sites and to generate company-specific indicators. c Data corrected due to the “fast close” process, see “About this report” p. 84. 55 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EVONIK The environment Climate change Carbon pricing requirements for offices, and emissions from the disposal and Change in greenhouse gas emissions We have decided to introduce carbon pricing for all investments recycling of products sold. The data exclude the usage phase of along Evonik’s value chain a T11 as a basis for effective management of our new CO2 reduction Evonik’s products. in million metric tons 2016 2017 2018 target. This adds another relevant indicator to the existing planning parameters for investments. The aim is to be able to reflect Greenhouse gas emissions increased to 27.6 million metric tons CO2eq emissions 25.9 26.9 27.6 the development of carbon-intensive investments in a reliable CO2eq in 2018 (2017: 26.9 million metric tons CO2eq). The a Excluding the usage phase. and harmonized manner in all investment applications worldincrease in product-specific volume sales in 2018 compared wide. Including carbon pricing in investment calculations is based with 2017 resulted in higher emissions, especially in categories on the assumption that the present market price, where available, 1 “purchase of chemical raw materials, packaging materials, and The method used is closely based on the GHG Protocol Standard is an inadequate price indicator for the mid to long term. We indirect goods,” and 12 “disposal and recycling of products.” of the World Resources Institute (WRI) and the World Business assume that, in ten years at the latest, relevant market prices or Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD). The next regulatory pricing systems of at least € 50 per metric ton CO2 will table shows a breakdown of greenhouse gas emissions along be established in all regions of relevance to Evonik. In view of Evonik’s value chain, based on the categories in the GHG Protoregional differences in the starting situation, we have developed col Standard. scenarios for the development of carbon pricing—differentiated by countries and regions—showing the rise to the assumed final price. These take account of both direct CO2 emissions (scope 1 Evonik Carbon Footprint a 305-3 T12 emissions) from production and energy generation, and indirect Greenhouse gas emissions in million metric tons CO2eq (excluding the usage phase) 2018 CO2 emissions from the purchase of secondary fuels (scope 2 Scope 1 Evonik’s energy and process-related emissions 5.7 emissions). To calculate the CO2 sensitivity of an investment, at least one scenario with a statistical CO2 price of € 50 metric tons Scope 2 Purchased energy (net, total purchased power and steam—sale of power and steam to third parties; market-based approach) 0.9 CO2 is considered. Scope 3 b Category 1: Purchase of chemical raw materials, packaging materials, and indirect goods 11.5 Evonik Carbon Footprint Category 2: Capital goods 0.6 We pay special attention to greenhouse gas emissions along the Category 3: Energy-related activities (outside scope 1 and 2) 0.7 value chain. Since 2008 we have reported an extensive overview Category 4: Inbound shipments of chemical raw materials 0.4 of greenhouse gas emissions—from the extraction of raw mateCategory 5: Disposal and recycling of production waste 0.6 rials through production to disposal of the products. The key Category 6: Business trips by employees 0.04 parameter is the carbon footprint (CO2eq footprint). The data Category 7: Commuting by employees 0.09 cover Evonik’s direct energy and process emissions (scope 1), Category 8: Leasing of goods, upstream (company cars, power and heating requirements for offices) 0.03 emissions from purchased electricity and heat (scope 2), and Category 9: Outbound shipments of products 0.5 selected indirect emissions (scope 3). These include emissions from the production of purchased raw materials, packaging Category 12: Disposal and recycling of products 6.6 materials, capital goods, energy-related emissions outside Total 27.6 scope 1 and scope 2, emissions from inbound shipments of raw https://corporate.evonik.de/downloads/corporate%20responsibility/evonik_carbon_footprint_en.pdf (outside the scope of the limited assurance review by PwC). materials, from the disposal of production waste, business trips, a Differences between the data and totals are due to rounding differences. commuting by employees, Evonik’s fleet of vehicles, energy b Some calculations are based on assumptions and estimates. 56 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EVONIK The environment Water management Other emissions into the air The ozone-depleting chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) are presently Evonik mainly uses water for cooling, for process purposes in Alongside emissions of greenhouse gases as reported above, only used as refrigerants on a very restricted basis as a transiproduction facilities, and to generate steam in power plants. To energy generation and industrial production result in further tional solution in line with national and international regulations. reduce the use of freshwater, we have established integrated emissions into the air. Our goal is to further reduce such emisConsequently, emissions of ozone-depleting substances were supply systems with graduated water qualities. For example, we sions. Clean air measures include returning exhaust gases to the again very low in 2019. The main substitutes at present are use water that is no longer suitable for cooling purposes to rinse production process, thermal processing of residual gases with partially fluorinated hydrocarbons (HFCs), which are used in filters or in industrial cleaning processes. In addition, the water a high calorific value (as substitutes for natural gas), the use of decentralized air-conditioning systems and small process cooling that evaporates from cooling circuits is often replaced by condenelectric filters to remove particulates, the use of catalysts to systems. These substances do not harm the ozone layer, but they sate or recycled drinking water. In accordance with ISO 14046, reduce nitrogen oxide, and desulfurization by washing with subhave a significant impact on the climate. We therefore anticipate the intake of sea water for cooling purposes at our methionine sequent precipitation. Our environmental management systems that these refrigerants will be replaced by more climate-friendly facility in Singapore is not taken into account in our overview of set the framework for us to achieve the statutory thresholds. products in the mid term. The greenhouse gas potential of the our water footprint; however, it is reported separately. refrigerants is shown in table T10 “Greenhouse gas emissions” Other emissions into the air T13 p. 54. Water stress analysis is an important element in water management. Water stress is a condition that was originally used to in metric tons 2017 2018 2019 describe the impact of water shortages on living organisms Carbon monoxide (CO) 1,132 1,093 1,135 such as plants. It is increasingly being used with reference to the Sulfur oxides (SOX/SO2) 2,626 2,408 1,200 Water management availability of water for industrial processes. Nitrogen oxides (NOX/NO2) 4,362 4,412 3,807 Non-methane volatile organic We save water wherever possible and endeavor Water data compounds (NMVOC) 672 714 702 to achieve a further reduction in our emissions into In our water stress analysis in 2018, we looked at the availability Particulates 386 580 498 water. A good water supply is crucial for smooth of water for industrial purposes in the next two decades at Heavy metals (As, Cd, Cr, production. 107 sites. In all, we identified 26 Evonik sites on four continents Cu, Hg, Ni, Pb, Zn) 0.13 0.35 a 0.39 where water is in short supply. In the reporting period, we selected the worst affected sites and conducted detailed local Ozone-depleting substances b Strategy and management interviews. These will be used as a starting point for developing in metric tons CFC-11 equivalents 0.14 0.16 0.06 The Evonik Group strives to use water as efficiently as possible. specific action plans. Following the introduction of our new water target, our main a Data corrected due to the “fast close” process, see “About this report” p. 83 f. b Emissions focus initially is on sites in regions that are sensitive to water of ozone-depleting substances calculated in accordance with the Montreal Protocol. stress. Taking into account projections for the climate and socio-economic developments, we have identified sites that are particularly likely to be affected by water stress in the next The reduction in SOx, NOx, and particulate emissions is mainly 20 years. At these sites, we aim to take specific preventive action attributable to the divestment of the methacrylates business. by developing site-specific action plans. That includes exploring Emissions of CO, NOx, and heavy metals were unchanged from alternative cooling systems or transportation options and options the previous year. As well as the disposal of the methacrylates to reduce the use of process water. To reflect the special sig­ business, particulate emissions reflect lower production of some nificance of freshwater, we take into account surface water, products. 305-6, 305-7 groundwater, and drinking water. 57 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EVONIK The environment Water management Evonik’s water data 2019 C21 Water intake by source a T14 (in million m3 p.a.) a in million m³ 2012 2017 2018 2019 b c Intake Use Discharge 7 To external wastewater Drinking water 18.2 17.7 20.0 20.7 534 1,605 522 Recycling of water b 3 treatment facilities Groundwater 84.7 77.6 78.3 66.1 Drinking water and groundwater 87 c Surface water c 242.4 274.2 267 221.1 Production 52 223 Into the sea Recycling of water from third parties and use of rainwater 4 3.8 3.4 3.3 Salt water 223 Total freshwater d 349.3 373.3 368.7 c 311.2 Once-through cooling systems 466 Salt water (sea water) 130.2 121.5 c 223.3 292 Into surface water Total 349.3 503.5 490.2 534.5 Surface water 221 Production in million metric tons 9.71 10.98 11 9.2 12 Consumption d Specific water intake Water consumption is the in m3 freshwater per Cooling circuits difference between water intake 1,087 metric ton production 33.8 32.3 31.8 32.1 and discharge. It is mainly due to evaporation losses. a Differences between the data and totals are due to rounding differences. b Water from municipal or other utilities. c Data corrected due to the “fast close” process, see “About this report” p. 84. d Excluding water for remediation purposes. a b Figures in the chart are rounded. Emissions into water Recycling of water from third parties, including use of rainwater. c Water used in chemical processes, including generation of steam and water for sanitary purposes. Our sites aim to make a contribution to protecting natural water d Water consumption in accordance with GRI Standard 303-5 (2018). resources. When planning new production plants, we therefore consider the use of processes that generate little or no waste­ Evonik sourced a total of 534 million m3 of water and discharged Evonik’s consumption of freshwater dropped to 311.2 million m3 water. We continue these efforts in the operational phase. We 522 million m3. The difference of 12 million m3 between water in 2019. While consumption of drinking water was unchanged also have high technology standards and infrastructure for the intake (including water consumption) and discharge mainly comfrom the previous year, there was a considerable drop in the disposal of wastewater at our sites. In some cases, production prises water used to replace evaporation losses. Around 97 peramount of groundwater and surface water used. The reduction in effluent is pretreated in the production plants. Consequently, the cent (1,565 million m3) of our total water intake (including water the use of groundwater was mainly due to divestment of the effluent load of wastewater discharged into our own or thirdconsumption) was for cooling purposes in energy generation methacrylates business. The drop in surface water requirements party treatment facilities is moderate. Wastewater discharged and production. Only 3 percent (52 million m3) was used for was due—in addition to this divestment—to a reduction in oncefrom our sites is carefully monitored by regular sampling and production purposes. Water used in closed cooling circuits is through cooling water requirements resulting from a demandcontinuous measuring equipment. included when calculating the proportion of total water used for driven drop in production volume. There was an increase in the cooling and the evaporation losses. amount of salt water used for cooling purposes in 2019 due to the start-up of the second complex to produce methionine and strategically important precursors in Singapore. 58 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EVONIK The environment Waste management In 2019, a total of 522 million m3 wastewater was discharged, Waste management Waste a 306-2, 103-2 T16 including 7 million m3 which was channeled to third-party in thousand metric tons 2017 2018 b 2019 facilities such as municipal wastewater treatment plants for treatClear priorities have been set for our efforts to Hazardous ment. 49 million m3 were discharged after treatment in Evonik’s further reduce production waste. The first priority production waste 244 242 204 facilities. That also includes amounts accepted from third parties is to avoid waste through continuous process of which reprocessed 145 142 122 for treatment at the wastewater treatment facilities operated by improvements and by extending integrated producof which disposed of 98 100 82 us at chemical parks. tion systems, otherwise waste should be recycled Non-hazardous or used to generate energy. As a third option, if production waste 153 151 117 Chemical oxygen demand (COD) accounts for the highest prothis is not possible, it should be disposed of safely. of which reprocessed 91 84 55 portion of wastewater loads. This is the concentration of all substances in the wastewater that can be oxidized under certain of which disposed of 63 67 62 conditions. As well as the divestment of the methacrylates Strategy and management Subtotal production waste 396 393 321 business, the decline in COD, N, P, and AOX loads in 2019 was We use catalysts as one way to increase yields and reduce side Hazardous building attributable, among other things, to process improvements, reactions. Integrated material flows are another tool. We also and demolition rubble 42 24 51 changes in the product mix, and lower output. The sharp drop in use the benefits of integrated production sites and systems for of which reprocessed 22 4 3 heavy metals was due to the divestment of the methacrylates systematic waste management. Sewage sludge is also within our of which disposed of 20 20 48 business, which used zinc compounds as corrosion inhibitors in integrated production structure. After dewatering, it is thermally Non-hazardous building cooling towers. processed by incinerating it in a separate incineration plant and demolition rubble 73 109 172 with integrated flue gas treatment. We use some of the exhaust of which reprocessed 55 78 114 a gases from production plants as substitute fuels in this process. of which disposed of 18 31 58 Wastewater loads  T15 The incineration gases are then used to generate 20 bar steam. Total 512 524 544 in metric tons 2017 2018 2019 To conserve resources, at many of our sites we use substitute Chemical oxygen fuels such as liquid residues from production processes. a Differences between the data and totals are due to rounding differences. b Data corrected due to the “fast close” process, see “About this report” p. 84. b demand (COD) 5,399 4,844 4,643 Total nitrogen (N) 359 330 293 Our activities in 2019 Total phosphorus (P) 100 104 74 The drop in production waste in 2019 was mainly due to the The percentage of waste reprocessed comprises recycled subdivestment of the methacrylates business. The reduction in stances, incineration with recycling of heat energy, and other Absorbable organic halogen compounds (AOX) 1.7 1.7 1.4 non-hazardous production waste was principally attributable to disposal methods. The reprocessing rate dropped to 54 percent Heavy metals (As, Cd, Cr, changes in the product mix of some fermentation products. in 2019 (2018: 59 percent). This was due to lower output of Cu, Hg, Ni, Pb, Zn) 5.7 5.7 1.8 There was a further significant increase in building and demolition fermentation products and the associated drop in recyclable rubble in 2019 as a result of the preparation of the construction waste. As a specialty chemicals company, we are involved a The data on wastewater loads comprise all direct discharges into receiving water and proportionate indirect discharges. site for the new combined gas and steam turbine power plant in in research and development work on mechanical and chemib Data corrected due to the “fast close” process, see “About this report” p. 84. Marl (Germany). 304-1, 103-2 cal recycling (see chapter “Value chain and products,” circular economy, p. 39). 59 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EVONIK The environment Biodiversity Waste management a T17 strategy. Based on the feedback from internal and external stakeEvonik production sites adjacent holders, biodiversity has been included in our materiality analysis to conservation areas T18 in thousand metric tons 2017 2018 b 2019 since 2017. Area IUCN a Ramsar b Incineration with Production site Country in km² categories area recycling of heat energy 61 58 55 We are aware that declining biodiversity has a negative effect on Marl Germany 7.426 IV, V Disposal by incineration 97 98 86 our business activities. At the same time, our value chains can Lafayette USA 7.004 V Recycling (including harbor risks for biodiversity. However, our products also make a composting) 189 195 182 Mapleton USA 2.349 V contribution to maintaining biodiversity. Examples are amino Landfill 62 70 131 acids for the nutrition of poultry, pigs, and cattle. These products Morrisburg Canada 1.132 Ia Chemical/physical/ greatly reduce the agricultural land required to produce feed. In Antwerp Belgium 1.077 IV biological treatment 19 21 16 this way, they protect habitats. The use of our omega-3 fatty Lülsdorf Germany 1.003 V Other reprocessing methods 62 55 57 acids in aquaculture helps protect marine biodiversity: Evonik Hanau-Wolfgang Germany 0.774 IV, V Other disposal methods 22 27 17 and Royal DSM have jointly developed an innovative feed proRheinfelden Germany 0.555 V Total 511 524 544 cess for salmon farming, using biotechnological production of Hopewell USA 0.436 IV omega-3 fatty acids from natural marine algae. This can greatly a Differences between the data and totals are due to rounding differences. Wesseling Germany 0.329 IV, V b Data corrected due to the “fast close” process, see “About this report” p. 84. reduce the use of fish oil in feed. Our joint venture, Veramaris, started production in Blair (Nebraska, USA) in July 2019. a IUCN = International Union for Conservation of Nature. b Ramsar Convention = convention on wetlands, especially as habitats for waterfowl. Our activities in 2019 Biodiversity The UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) of relevance for The data underlying our biodiversity analysis are constantly being Evonik (see chapter “Strategy and growth” p. 17) include SDG 12 developed. Compared with 2018, we have added the Mapleton We are aware that our business operations involve (responsible consumption and production), which specifically and Hopewell sites to our overview. By contrast, the sites in both opportunities and risks for biological diversity. addresses biodiversity. That was one of the reasons why we Worms and Weiterstadt (Germany) are no longer included due This applies, above all, to our global production looked more closely at biodiversity in the reporting period. We to the divestment of our methacrylates business. In principle, the but also includes the raw materials we purchase and intend to continue this in the future and to make a more detailed industrial premises used by Evonik do not include any protected the use of our products. examination of the relevance of this topic for Evonik and the relor restored natural habitats. However, some of our sites are evant value chains. adjacent to conservation areas. For example, as part of a project for which authorization was required, a flora, fauna, and habitat Strategy and management In 2018, we extended our biodiversity analysis by introducing a study was conducted at Marl Chemical Park in Germany to The starting points for our examination of biodiversity are geoinformation system. Based on data from the IBAT Alliance 1, evaluate the potential adverse impact of our activities on the conventional environmental topics such as emissions into water we examine the potential impact of our global sites on areas of conservation area. Regular review and updating of environmental and the air, and responsible water and waste management. We special significance for biodiversity. The next table shows our ten data are important to ensure that timely action can be taken in report regularly on these topics and have set ambitious emissions largest production sites adjacent to conservation areas. the event of any negative impact. reduction and water management targets in our sustainability 304-1, 103-2 1 The IBAT Alliance comprises the following four non-governmental organizations: (1) BirdLife International, (2) Conservation International, (3) International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN), (4) United Nations Environment Programme World Conservation Monitoring Centre (UNEP-WCMC). 60 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EVONIK The environment Our targets Our site in Mobile (Alabama, USA) is close to the Fowl River. Our targets The US Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) is currently altering the status of the watershed area around this river Below is an overview of the targets set for our environment area of action. The targets defined for 2020 (approx. 21,360 hectares) to a water conservation area. Evonik and beyond have been sharpened and streamlined to enhance their strategic relevance. supports this plan and is a member of the Fowl River Forever steering committee that is working on a management plan to protect and improve the water quality. This should ensure longTarget attainment in 2019 term protection of the flora and fauna for the river and the water intake area. The area around the Fowl River is an important Reduce absolute scope 1 and scope 2 emissions by 50 percent by 2025 (reference base: 2008) recreation area for many local inhabitants. Therefore, Evonik sponsored the Mobile Bay Annual Coastal Cleanup in 2019. Many employees participated directly in this, helping to remove Introduce a global water management system, including site-specific action plans trash from the Fowl River and Big Creek Lake. Further reduce production waste Targets for 2020 and beyond Reduce absolute scope 1 and scope 2 emissions by 50 percent by 2025 (reference base: 2008) Reduce absolute scope 3 emissions from the upstream value chain—principally from the “carbon backpack”—by 15 percent by 2025 (reference base: 2020) Develop site-specific action plans for sites that are potentially exposed to water stress as part of a global water management system Target not achieved Target partially achieved or target horizon extends beyond 2019 Target achieved 61 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EVONIK Employees EMPLOYEES People are at the heart of the workplace at Evonik. Our employees are the basis of our success. Their professional qualifications and commitment are their key attributes and make Evonik strong. SDG of relevance for Evonik KEY TOPICS • Appeal as an employer • Vocational training and continuing professional development • Health protection and promotion • Diversity and equal opportunity 5.5 0.9% €79million Occupational Early employee Spending on training health performance turnover and continuing professional index development 62 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EVONIK Employees Employees EMPLOYEES Employees comprises the areas attract, develop, perform, retain, and lead. We use a global system of HR performance indicators to measure Evonik aspires to be a best-in-class specialty our success. 62 Employees 62 Strategy and management chemicals company. To achieve that, we are continuously developing as an employer because In July 2019, we restructured the HR organization, which now 63 Appeal as an employer 102-8, 103-2, 401-1, 401-2, we can only achieve our goal with first-class, comprises the HR Talent Management and HR Business Manage401-3, 402-1, 102-36, 102-37, 102-41, 404-2, 404-3 skilled, motivated, and healthy employees. ment divisions. Both divisions have a global leadership role and work closely with one another. HR Talent Management bundles 63 Strategy and management local activities relating to attracting, developing, retaining, and 64 Our activities in 2019 Strategy and management leading employees. HR Business Management coordinates the 66 Diversity and As part of our annual HR strategy process, we ensure continuous Evonik Group’s regional employer function, all performance-­ equal opportunity 202-2, 401-2, 404-2, 405-1 development of our human resources activities in line with our related aspects, and the global HR Administration, HR IT, and 66 Strategy and management materiality analysis and human resources strategy. Our HR strategy Workforce Analytics units. 67 Our activities in 2019 68 Vocational training and 404-1 continuing professional development 68 Strategy and management Digital networking is changing how we work 69 Our activities in 2019 How can we help our employees network across different 69 H  ealth protection 403-1, 403-2, 403-4, 403-5, levels and organizational units? And how can we help them and promotion 403-5, 403-6, 403-7, 403-8, work agilely and develop a future-oriented mindset? How can 403-10 69 Strategy and management we drive change in the right direction? 70 Emergency medical New corporate management One example is the Evonik Spirit initiative launched in April values and agile 70 Workplace-related 2019. Based on our corporate values of speed and openness, working methods. preventive healthcare we called on all our employees around the world to put 70 Corporate ­forward ideas on these values in Connections, our internal health promotion social media network. The network is made up of many by a member of the executive board. In a further selection 71 Our targets 102-14, 102-15 thousands of people with different experiences who are preprocess, the participants at these meetings chose 20 ideas pared to share their knowledge. The response was really that were developed, piloted, and in some cases implemented good: In four weeks, more than 13,000 employees took part within a three-month period. in this group-wide ideas forum. Overall, they submitted more than 300 proposals, 23,000 votes, and 1,500 comments. As a complement to traditional working methods such as email and meetings, this networked approach involving corporate Various teams were then set up via Connections to drive forward activists shows how much creativity and meaningful content individual ideas. The 60 ideas that received the most votes can be generated through intelligent use of modern technologies. qualified for regional speed-up meetings, which were attended 63 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EVONIK Employees Appeal as an employer The heads of these two divisions report directly to the chief Appeal as an employer To anchor our corporate values in the long term, we use the human resources officer. The HR Executive Committee is the Evonik Spirit initiative, which comprises top-down incentives highest decision-making body for HR. It adopts the global HR The key demands made on modern HR work to encourage a strong performance culture and a wide range of strategy and takes decisions on the group-wide HR organization. include gaining and developing the most talented bottom-up measures to strengthen employee engagement and This committee comprises Evonik’s chief human resources staff. It is therefore important for us to ensure an the sharing of ideas (see Digital networking is changing how we officer, the industrial relations directors of the segments, and the attractive working environment and offer additional work p. 62). heads of Corporate Talent Management and Corporate Business benefits and incentives to supplement our fair, Management. The permanent members of the Global HR RoundPerformance management system performance-oriented remuneration. We place table are the HR representatives of the segments and regions, At the start of 2019, Evonik introduced a new global perforspecial emphasis on work-life balance. and the process owners from the various HR organizational mance management system. The focus is on continuous dialogue, units (see chart C05 Sustainability governance structure at Evonik encouraging performance, and systematically reducing bureaup. 12). The development of corporate executives is allocated Strategy and management cracy. From 2020, the field force will also be using the system. directly to the chairman of the executive board. Our global employer branding campaign, #HumanChemistry, We hope that this will make our HR processes even leaner. places our employees in the spotlight and makes them the most Talent management important advocates of our company. Personal insights into real Employees by contractual status Clear processes, systematic job rotation, and high-quality develworking life at Evonik can be viewed on our careers site at Over 95 percent of our employees worldwide have permanent opment programs are essential to develop tomorrow’s top #HumanChemistry. contracts. We work with staffing agencies in Germany to cover executives. Potential is assessed and succession scenarios and short-term or temporary bottlenecks. All agencies must provide development requirements for talents at Evonik are regularly The success of our employer brand is measured by our position evidence of a valid operating permit. If agency staff have been discussed at HR meetings attended by the executive board. in external employer rankings and by internal employee surveys. used for a job for more than six months, we examine whether A differentiated development landscape gives equal priority Another key indicator used to measure our attractiveness as an it is a permanent job for which a permanent employee can be to management requirements, leadership issues, and personal employer is early employee turnover. hired. Alongside appropriate remuneration, we make sure that expectations. Mentoring programs and initiatives geared to agency staff are covered by the high social and safety standards specific topics round out the offering. In our fifth group-wide employee survey in November 2018, applicable for our own staff. Since the chemical industry requires around 35,000 1 employees were asked to give an anonymous a large number of highly qualified employees, fewer agency staff We expect executives to set an example by living our corporate assessment of their working environment. A new survey tool are used than in other sectors of manufacturing industry. Evonik values—performance, trust, openness, and speed—and to drive enables our executives to track the development of opinion after had around 650 agency staff in Germany as of December 31, forward the development of our corporate culture. For this target our employee survey. It is used to monitor the success of the 2019. That was nearly 4 percent of our workforce in Germany. group, we have established a learning journey to digital and action taken and the perception of the priority topics. In addition start-up companies in Germany and the USA. to the employee survey, in 2019 we conducted more than 25 surveys on specific issues. The topics ranged from monitoring the new performance management system introduced in 2019 to user experience of our IT applications. That all contributes to a lively feedback culture at Evonik. 1 Figure includes the methacrylates business, which was divested in July 2019. 64 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EVONIK Employees Appeal as an employer Employees by contractual status, region, and gender T19 The campaign #EndlichMalEinRichtigerJob (the right job at last) Employee turnover in 2019 T21 produced by our training department with well-known You­Tubers of which of which Number of employees on employees on of which was also acclaimed. Clicks and comments show that Evonik was employees permanent limited-term apprentices/ able to achieve high visibility and reach among the target group. Turnover who left the Number Employees contracts contracts trainees in % company a In the Carbon Footprint Challenge, Evonik cooperates with Evonik 32,423 29,568 1,594 1,261 Covestro, Bühler, Oracle, and nine European universities to raise By region Asia-Pacific North 3,211 2,284 927 0 upcoming engineers’ awareness of socially relevant issues and Asia-Pacific North 8.6 285 Asia-Pacific South 1,793 1,737 56 0 position Evonik as a sustainable employer. Asia-Pacific South 9.9 183 Central & Central & South America 13.0 88 South America 656 643 3 10 Employee satisfaction and retention Eastern Europe 5.6 30 Eastern Europe 496 480 16 0 Our employee survey in November 2018 covered topics such Western Europe 3.2 709 Western Europe 21,828 19,990 590 1,248 as our company, team and collaboration, and innovation and customer focus. The participation rate was very high at 85.2 perMiddle East & Africa 13.5 22 Middle East & Africa 152 149 2 1 cent. Following a detailed analysis of the results, we have derived North America 8.5 370 North America 4,287 4,285 0 2 2,350 measures and held 992 workshops around the world to By gender communicate the results (as of February 2020). 102-43 Female 5.9 497 Women in % 26 25 37 25 Male 4.9 1,190 Low turnover of newly hired employees within the past three By age years compared with other companies indicates a good level Under 30 years 6.9 470 Our activities in 2019 of identification and high employee satisfaction. Looking at em30-50 years 4.6 738 For the second time in succession, our company received the ployees giving notice within the first year, we score very well Leading Employer award in Germany and was ranked as the compared with our competitors with a rate of 0.7 percent in the Over 50 years 4.9 479 best employer in the chemical sector. In China, Evonik was once USA and 0.6 percent in Germany. 5.2 1,687 again included in the list of the most popular employers (Top thereof termination by the employee 2.3 749 Employer Institute) in 2019. We also received several other accoLength of service T20 a Employees who have left the company. lades such as the European Digital Communication Award and 2017 a 2018 2019 the HR Excellence Award. Early employee turnover in % 1.4 0.9 0.9 Performance and remuneration Total employee turnover in % 5.8 6.7 5.2 Fair, marketand performance-oriented remuneration is anchored Average length of service in years 14.6 14.5 14.8 in our human resources tools worldwide. The principles used to structure remuneration, including fringe benefits, are set out a Including the methacrylates business. in group-wide policies. Remuneration is set on the basis of objective criteria such as responsibility, competencies, and success. Personal attributes such as gender, age, etc., play no part in the process. In 2019, we paid out €2,483 million in wages and salaries. 102-36, 102-41, 103-2, 202-1, 401-2, 404-3 65 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EVONIK Employees Appeal as an employer Personnel expense T22 Evonik offers pension plans in many countries, where it is cusWe have many offers to foster the physical and mental fitness of tomary to do so. In the past, defined benefit pensions financed our employees. In 2019, the staff restaurants at all our German in € million 2018 2019 solely by the employer were most common. Newer (defined sites extended the successful nutrition concept introduced in the Wages and salaries 2,629 2,483 contribution) plans are generally based on mandatory or volunprevious year to raise awareness of healthy eating. Worldwide, Social security contributions 374 391 tary contributions by employees. Since the structure of pension many of our sites also offer a variety of sports activities. Pension expense 197 201 plans differs by country, there are also differences in the level of Other personnel expense 79 81 contributions made by employees or by the employer. Examples Our generation pact has been extended to successfully counter 3,279 3,156 are the plans available to newly hired employees in Germany and demographic change. Take-up was again high. This pact enables the USA. In Germany, employees can choose to make a personal people to retire far earlier and provides a basis for offering contribution of 0, 3, 4, or 6 percent of their salary. The contribuemployment to qualified apprentices at the end of their training. In 2019, only eight employees asked for information under the tion made by the employer rises with the personal contribution. German Remuneration Transparency Act. After examining their In the USA, the pension plan is based on standard employee conIn Germany, all 19,607 employees, including our 14,585 male entitlement to obtain information, information was provided in tributions of 6 percent of their salary, but this can be increased or employees, have a statutory right to parental leave. just two cases. decreased individually. The employee’s total contribution is topped up by graduated employer contributions. 775 employees took parental leave in 2019. The proportion of Collective agreements on remuneration cover 100 percent of our male employees was around 46 percent. In 2019 they took an employees in Germany and around 72 percent of our employees average of 1.7 months parental leave, while female employees worldwide. Around 96 percent of our sites and regions have pertook an average of 675 months. In the reporting period, 564 formanceor profit-oriented incentive systems. These systems employees returned to work after parental leave. Apart from a cover around 99 percent of our employees. 102-41 few exceptions, all employees who returned from parental leave Zertifikat seit 2009 in 2018 were still working for us a year later. As of December 31, Evonik offers voluntary social benefits to employees in all 2018, there were 275 employees on parental leave. 190 of them regions where it has a presence. These are available to more than (including 21 men) returned to work in 2019. That was just under 99 percent of our employees. Close to 100 percent of our 69 percent. 81 of the employees who did not return to work in employees have statutory or company pension insurance and Work-life balance 2019 were still on parental leave at year-end 2019. The proporhealth insurance. As a rule, part-time employees benefit from our Evonik places value on an HR policy that is family-friendly and tion remaining in the company is therefore over 93 percent. performanceand profit-oriented incentive systems and our geared to different phases in people’s lives. More than 93 per102-8, 102-41 , 401-2 voluntary social benefits, provided that they meet the minimum cent of our employees around the world have access to related working hours prescribed in some regions. In addition, in 2019 initiatives. At the heart of this approach are flexible worktime we once again offered employees in Germany, the USA, China, models, support for people caring for close relatives, and assisBelgium, and Singapore the opportunity to take part in the Share tance with childcare. In 2019, we were recertified following employee share program. The participation rate remained high at a berufundfamilie audit (“workandfamily audit”) by the Hertie 37 percent in 2019. Foundation. In addition, Evonik was again honored by the ­German parenting magazine ELTERN as one of the most family-­ friendly companies and by the women’s magazine BRIGITTE as one of the best employers for women. 66 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EVONIK Employees Diversity and equal opportunity The regular, contractually defined working hours for more than Trustful collaboration Diversity and equal opportunity 75 percent of our employees are based on collective agreements. Evonik’s success is based on trustful collaboration between repWe limit employees’ working hours to 48 hours a week, unless resentatives of the management and employees. This takes We are an international company and see diversity shorter working hours are applicable. Over 80 percent of our account of operating conditions and the laws applicable in the as an opportunity. In our view, diversity is not employees benefit from annual vacation rules that exceed the various countries. 102-43 simply a social or political obligation. We see it as statutory provisions in their country. Since there is no statutory a key to the success of our business. ruling in the USA, the situation there is based on regional custom. In Germany, the fundamental rights of our employees and their representatives to be consulted are anchored in statutory regulaSome employees ask about the possibility of taking paid or tions such as the Codetermination Act and the legislation on Strategy and management unpaid leave for an extended period, for example, to ensure the executive staff councils. There are elected bodies representing Evonik does business in many markets worldwide. Diversity compatibility of private and professional phases in their lives. our employees at all sites in Germany. Works councils represent is therefore normal in our business activities. Employees with However, interest is very low. In percentage terms it is in the low exempt and non-exempt employees, while executive staff councils different backgrounds and personalities enrich our teams and our single-digit range, based on our total headcount. represent our executives. Timely discussion of all major changes company. They enhance our creativity, innovative capability, and with these bodies is ensured. These take place several weeks or proximity to customers. Nearly 10 percent of employees in Western Europe take up the months prior to implementation of such measures, depending on option of working part-time to balance work and private life. the significance of the upcoming changes. Where necessary, Our diversity council ensures that diversity is a success factor that By contrast, this option is hardly used in other regions because it during this period written agreements are made on the upcoming is deeply embedded in our organization and drives it forward has no social relevance in there. measures and their impact on our workforce. through cross-business criteria. The council includes members of the executive board, the heads of the segments and regions, and Ability to take extended periods of leave a T23 There are comparable rules on the type and scope of consul­ executives from various organizational units. Fostering diversity tation and negotiation in many other regions where Evonik has goes well beyond this group of individuals and is a central Employees in % employees. demand made on all management functions at Evonik. Western Europe 94 At company level in Germany, employees’ interests are repreOur diversity strategy consists of the following three levers: Eastern Europe 100 sented by employee representatives on the supervisory board. Asia-Pacific North 93 • Measurability: The parameters we use to manage diversity Asia-Pacific South 59 The information and consultation rights of employees on often exceed the legal requirements. The executive board Central & South America 100 cross-border European issues are represented by the Evonik is informed quarterly of the development of key diversity indiNorth America 93 Europa Forum, which is composed of employee and employer cators. It is important to us to ensure that the gender ratio and Middle East & Africa 33 representatives. cultural mix are transparent across organizational levels. a Option to take an extended period of paid or unpaid leave (more than three months). Evonik does not restrict employees’ rights to freedom of asso­ • Communication: We raise our employees’ awareness of the ciation or the right to collective bargaining. These rights are importance of diversity in our day-to-day work through our 102-8, 102-41, 103-2, 407-1, 408-1, 409-1 also ensured in countries where freedom of association is not corporate media and inclusive activities. protected by the state. Based on our sites worldwide, there are employee representatives for more than 96 percent of our • Training: We train our executives and talents to deal with employees. 102-41 both conscious and unconscious bias. 67 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EVONIK Employees Diversity and equal opportunity Our code of conduct and global social policy forbid discrimi­ Longer working lives and altered job requirements are starting to Overall, the proportion of female employees in management nation on the basis of origin, race, religion, age, gender, sexual change the world of work. In line with this, we foster and stretch functions increased from 17 percent in 2011 to 25 percent in 2019. orientation, and disability. Employees who feel they have been our employees in all phases of their working lives, for example, When recruiting staff for management functions, we focus discriminated against have a right to lodge a complaint. Contacts through our well@work initiative and the Learning and Individuon academic disciplines of relevance to us, including gender for reporting cases of discrimination are available at all sites. alized Library (LILY) online platform for lifelong learning. distribution. Information on complaints procedures is available to all employees via internal media and personal discussions in all regions. External hires by age C23 Percentage of women in management T24 We have introduced additional measures and activities to prevent discrimination. These reach over 90 percent of our workforce. Over 50 years 7% in % 2011 a 2018 2019 108 employees Executives b 8.2 12.3 11.2 Our activities in 2019 Executives and Under 30 years 50% We measure progress in diversity during the year using a range senior management c 8.1 11.1 12.6 800 employees of indicators on age, gender, and nationality. These are outlined Management d 17.8 25.6 26.4 below. 30 – 50 years 43% All management functions 16.6 24.3 25.2 679 employees Age a a Including the methacrylates business. Management circle 1. In 2019, the average age of Evonik employees was 42 years. b Management circles 1 + 2. c Management circle 3. 50 percent of new hires (800 employees) were under 30. 43 percent were in the 30 – 50 age group (679 employees). 7 percent of new hires (108 employees) were over 50. An extensive range of measures supports the attainment of these Gender targets. These include development activities, networking Age structure in the Evonik Group C22 Increasing the proportion of women in our company worldwide events, mentoring, and support programs. Examples are special and at all levels is one of Evonik’s declared objectives. At present, offerings to increase the compatibility of work and family life in % women make up 26 percent of our workforce (8,338 employees) and a new job-sharing platform. The offer is graduated, so it is Under 21 years and men make up 74 percent (24,085 employees). 30 percent of available to women at all management levels. We are starting to 21 – 30 years external hires (469 employees) were female and 70 percent see initial positive effects, especially among younger age groups. (1,117 employees) were male. In the under-40s age group, the proportion of female employees 31 – 40 years in management now nearly 35 percent. That is an improvement 41 – 50 years External hires by gender C24 of 7 percentage points compared with 2011. To provide further 51 – 60 years social impetus, Evonik has been part of the “Chefsache” gender Over 60 years equality initiative since 2018. 102-8, 405-1 Female 30% 10 5 0 5 10 15 20 25 469 employees Male 70% Female Male 1,117 employees 68 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EVONIK Employees Vocational training and continuing professional development Nationality Employees by region C26 Vocational training and continuing As a global company, it is particularly important to us to ensure that our workforce includes a broad spectrum of different nationprofessional development Asia-Pacific South 6% alities. Evonik currently employs people of 101 different nation1,793 employees Middle East & Africa < 1% Well-trained employees are a clear competitive alities at 195 sites in more than 50 countries. The proportion of Asia-Pacific North 10% 152 employees advantage. Our learning strategies and personnel employees in management functions who come from countries 3,211 employees other than Germany is stable at around 43 percent. Group-wide, development programs focus on our corporate Central & the proportion in middle management is around 27 percent. South America 2% targets and future business needs. 656 employees Western Europe 67% External hires by region 202-2 C25 North America 13% 21,828 employees Strategy and management 4,287 employees Our training and continuing professional development activities Asia-Pacific South 13% Eastern Europe 2% comprise further training of our employees as well as vocational 496 employees 211 employees training of young people. Evonik’s learning strategy was develMiddle East & Africa 1% oped in consultation with employees. It comprises two offerings: 14 employees the global development portal (GDP) as a central platform for all learning needs and the Learning and Individualized Library Asia-Pacific North 13% (LILY), which provides constant access to learning resources. 210 employees Western Europe 44% Integrating people with disabilities Central & South America 4% 692 employees The employment and inclusion of people with disabilities is The GDP is available to all employees worldwide. The aim is to 68 employees another expression of how we embrace diversity. We focus on ensure full transparency about learning offerings, contacts, and North America 21% providing a working environment where every individual can costs. In addition, our online offerings reflect the progress of 340 employees Eastern Europe 3% use their personal strengths optimally for the development of digitalization. LILY provides structured learning journeys that 52 employees themselves and the company. In the reporting period, employees help our employees deal with the demands made by the faster with disabilities accounted for 8.4 percent of Evonik’s workforce pace of work and changing demands in the workplace. Indicators in Germany. of digital use that we keep a special eye on are page views and the total number of users. Discrimination Eight cases of discrimination were reported to us in 2019. There To secure the need for skilled workers, especially in production are no outstanding measures or complaints relating to five of and related areas, back in 2016 Evonik started to train apprentices these cases. In the other cases, action was taken to clarify and based on requirements. On this basis, following the summer remedy the situation. 406-1 examinations in 2019, we were able to offer jobs to those apprentices who were able and willing to take up employment. With the intake of 2019, we completed the strategic realignment of our vocational training activities. As a result, the number of apprentices being trained for Evonik has decreased from around 1,600 to around 1,200. By contrast, the number of apprentices being trained for other companies was unchanged in the same period at around 400. 69 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EVONIK Employees Health protection and promotion Our activities in 2019 Health protection and promotion In Germany, issues relating to occupational safety and health Evonik trained around 1,600 young people, including more than protection have to be agreed with the employee representatives. 400 on behalf of other companies. Our training covered more Global management of health protection and On this basis, we have worked out policies for our global workthan 32 recognized vocational training courses and combined promotion at Evonik takes a long-term, holistic force. In line with statutory requirements, at our German sites, vocational training and study programs at 15 sites. approach, covering employees, the working we have occupational safety committees that meet at least four situation, and the general working environment. times a year to discuss issues relating to occupational safety and Apprentices accounted for around 6.8 percent of our workforce the protection of health. These are composed of employee and in Germany, which is still well above the national average of employer representatives, safety specialists, safety officers, and around 5 percent. In all, we invested €60 million in vocational Strategy and management occupational medicine specialists. They cover more than 99 percent training of employees. Our high commitment to vocational trainOur approach includes high-quality medical care as required, of our employees in Germany. There are also comparable bodies ing is also reflected in their examination results. Over 99 percent applying ergonomic and health-related measures to structure at sites outside Germany. of our apprentices passed their examinations and more than working conditions, and a functioning emergency management 13 percent received an overall grade of “very good.” system at plant level. In addition, we offer a selective range of Fulfillment of the relevant requirements is checked regularly health promotion measures, which are bundled in the groupby corporate audits and regional environment, safety, and health In 2019, 90 places for young people who were not ready for wide well@work initiative. In this way, we help our employees audits, and through an extensive occupational health and reportan apprenticeship were taken up on the “Start in den Beruf” adopt a healthy lifestyle. Our health protection and promotion ing system. Action is taken if there are indications of scope pre-apprenticeship program. That figure includes the 20/20/20 measures are also available to employees from staffing agencies. for improvement or deviations from the applicable guidelines. training initiative of the Evonik Foundation, which financed Where necessary, improvements are suggested or required. As an 40 places, including 20 for young refugees. Following compleThe main goals and aspects of our occupational health strategy overriding indicator, we have established an occupational health tion of the Evonik Foundation’s 20/20/20 initiative, participation are outlined in the Evonik Global Health Program. On this basis, performance index. in the pre-apprenticeship program was reduced to 50 places at we systematically refine our strategy and adapt it to the latest year-end 2019. developments. The main challenges identified for the period 2020 Occupational health performance index through 2025 are the aging workforce, the global increase in This index shows the extent to which internal requirements have In 2019, Evonik invested around €500 per employee in training mental health problems, and changes in the working world resultbeen implemented and goals achieved. It enables us to measure and continuing professional development. That was a total of €16 ing from digitalization and Work 4.0. Based on these challenges, progress in the area of occupational health and drive forward million. Face-to-face training, which still accounts for the majority we have derived priorities for our occupational health activities. continuous improvement. The index is calculated from two paramof training sessions, totaled around 8 hours per employee. These The corporate policy “Occupational Health and Health Promoeters from each of the following areas: occupational medicine, indicators cover 99 percent of employees worldwide. tion” sets binding worldwide standards for health protection and health promotion, and emergency medical management. Both promotion. 401-2 the quality and the scope of the measures are taken into account. Our learning strategy doubled user numbers in the reporting The index is calculated annually. In 2019, it covered 85 sites and period. While around 4,650 employees used the digital learning 88 percent of Evonik employees. platform LILY in 2018, the number rose to around 10,000 in 2019. The time spent on this platform was nearly 11,000 hours in total. We have defined a long-term annual target of ≥ 5.0 for the That represents an average digital learning time of 2.3 hours per occupational health performance index. In both 2019 and 2018, user, in addition to time spent in face-to-face training. the index was 5.5 (maximum: 6.0). 404-1, 404-2 70 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EVONIK Employees Health protection and promotion Occupational Health Performance Index a C27 Information for, and training of, employees also play an important Corporate health promotion part in avoiding health impairments. Such training is mandatory Our well@work program centers on three aspects: exercise, Calculated from occupational medicine, health promotion, for all employees worldwide. Preventive healthcare includes a healthy diet, and work-life balance. Corporate health promoand emergency medical management Lower limit providing advice for employees on their individual health risks, tion has a firm place in this: Evonik uses basic programs with 2017 5.4 and preventive check-ups where necessary. The medical data a long-term focus to encourage employees to adopt a healthy 2018 5.5 generated in this process are subject to medical confidentiality lifestyle. These are supplemented by special topics, which change 2019 5.5 and are protected and archived in accordance with national data every year. protection regulations. 0.0 1.5 3.0 4.5 6.0 a Figures for 2017 and 2018 include the methacrylates business. Evonik regularly reports on occupational illnesses. The indicator used for this is the occupational disease rate (ODR), which is Rescue a life! For Germany, we also calculate a health ratio, which was 94.8 defined as the number of newly identified cases of occupational Evonik participates percent in 2019 (2108: 94.9 percent 1). This is the ratio of target illnesses per 1 million working hours. The calculation includes . working hours less sickness-related hours lost to target working all cases recognized in the reporting period, including latent SESe 17. – 23 . 16 – 20 ptembe PT WEEK , 2019 r 2018 OF OF N EEK WSC ITATIO hours. illnesses (i.e., those where the causes lie well in the past). The N RE SCITATIO SU RESU CAN COMPRESSION OF main causes of occupational illness at Evonik are exposure to 100/MIN SAVE A heart attack? Emergency medical management asbestos and noise. Exposure to asbestos relates to the period Check The Medical Incident and Emergency Management standard prior to 1993, the year Germany banned the production and use Call defines binding basic requirements for emergency medical manof asbestos. Our consistently low figures for occupational illness Press agement at Evonik’s sites worldwide. The exact equipment and are evidence of the effectiveness of our occupational safety meahuman resources required depend on production-related risks sures. For Evonik employees and contractors’ employees workwww.einlebenretten.de SUPPORTED BY: Professional Association of German Anesthetists, and the availability and quality of local medical infrastructure. ing under Evonik’s direct supervision, the risk of sustaining an German Society of Anesthesiology and Intensive Care, German Resuscitation Council, Foundation German Anesthesiology www.einlebenretten.de occupational illness is therefore very low. In the reporting period, Specific procedures have been defined for accidents where there were no reported deaths of members of our active workemployees come into contact with chemicals and require special force as a result of work-related illness. medical treatment. Emergency medical management also includes pandemic plans and regular training exercises. An extensive preThe ODR for 2019 will probably be available in spring 2020 and ventive health and risk management program is in place for will be published on our website. In 2018, the ODR for the employees on business trips and foreign assignments. Evonik Group was 0.19. All new occupational illnesses reported At all of our German sites, there are interdisciplinary health task in Germany are included, giving an ODR for Germany of 0.33. forces to implement well@work. Workplace-related preventive healthcare The results of our hazard assessment help us proactively impleMaintaining the long-term employability and well-being of our ment suitable preventive measures to avoid work-related illnesses employees is also at the heart of our fit-for-life seminars, which and health problems. Where we identify a risk for specific run over several days. employees, technical and organizational measures to counter the risk have priority over the use of personal protective equipment. Worldwide, more than 94 percent of our workforce can seek advice on workplace-related, health, personal, or family problems from social and employee counseling centers. 1 Figure for 2018 includes the methacrylates business. 71 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EVONIK Employees Our targets Our targets Below is an overview of the targets set for our employees area of action. The targets defined for 2020 and beyond have been sharpened and streamlined to enhance their strategic relevance. ­ Target attainment in 2019 Targets for 2020 and beyond Analyze the results of the global employee survey and implement measures in all units Occupational health performance index ≥5.0 Ongoing development of the global development strategy supported by modern learning tools Increase flexiblization of worktime 1 Discuss and implement Evonik’s new corporate values worldwide Further support for diversity at Evonik: Increase the percentage of women in middle and senior management Recruitment of women for management positions should reflect the gender distribution in relevant disciplines Increase the proportion of international managers in middle management Occupational health performance index ≥ 5.0 Include further sites in the calculation of this index (+5 sites in 2019) Target not achieved Target partially achieved or target horizon extends beyond 2019 Target achieved 1 For example: •by encouraging greater use of the “PairFect” job-sharing platform. •by concluding a collective agreement on lifetime working and demographic. change with a €750 demographic change contribution. 103-2 72 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EVONIK Safety SAFETY Safety has priority over sales and profits at Evonik. We have established a safety culture that allows continuous improvement of our systems and processes. SDGs of relevance for Evonik KEY TOPICS • Plant safety • Occupational safety • Transportation safety/logistics 1.10 1.18 Incident frequency Accident frequency (number of incidents (number of accidents per 1 million working hours) per 1 million working hours) 73 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EVONIK Safety Safety SAFETY Framework of the safety culture C28 The behaviors are linked—supporting each other through four common themes across the three groups of employees. 73 Safety 73 Strategy and management Theme Everyone Supervisors Managers 73 Our activities in 2019 Standards Follow rules Ensure compliance Set high standards 74 Occupational safety 102-11, 102-13, 102-43, 403-1, 403-2, 403-4, 403-5, 403-7, Communication Speak up Encourage the team Communicate openly 403-8, 403-9 74 Strategy and management Risk management Be mindful Promote risk awareness Confront risk 74 Plant safety 102-11, 102-13, 102-43, 403-1, 403-2 Involvement Get involved Involve the team Involve the workforce 74 Strategy and management 75 Transportation safety and logistics 75 Strategy and management principles of action that give our managers and employees Our activities in 2019 75 Our activities in 2019 reliable guidance on safety-compliant conduct in their daily In 2019, we introduced our new global server-based platform 76 Our targets 102-14, 102-15 work. 102-43 ESTER (Evonik Standard Tool ESHQ and Reporting). This was rolled out first in the North America region, followed by Europe At Evonik, the management of occupational and plant safety is and Asia. Inclusion of all Evonik sites is scheduled for completion ensured by globally binding policies and operating procedures by mid-2020. The aim of this integrated software platform is to that form an integral part of our management system. Observance harmonize processes worldwide, make workflows leaner, and Safety of these rules is monitored by central audits, while business-­ broaden our database to improve our safety performance. specific implementation is assigned to the segments. Steering Our materiality analysis and regular discussions with bodies at group level ensure that mission-critical processes are To sharpen our focus on specialty chemicals, on August 1, 2019, our stakeholders confirm the high priority we give to standardized for all segments (see chapter “The environment” we divested the methacrylates business (see “About this report” occupational and plant safety. That is also reflected p. 50). Group-wide targets based on key performance indicap. 83). This divestment had only a slight impact on our safety in the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) of tors are used to check implementation of the requirements and indicators but a more significant impact on our transportation and relevance to Evonik. identify the need for further action. The frequency and severity logistics indicators. However, since separate management of the of accidents are also reflected in the variable remuneration of methacrylates business was no longer undertaken in 2019, the members of the executive board. presentation of the safety data in the reporting period only Strategy and management ­covers the continuing operations (excluding the methacrylates We have defined environment, safety, health, and quality values, Our crisis and incident management focus on preventing and business). which address our responsibility and are used to continuously limiting damage if accidents nevertheless happen. To build and improve our processes and systems. share the necessary experience, we are actively involved in various national and international networks. We analyze incidents careWe have developed the Safety at Evonik initiative into a groupfully so we can learn from them and further improve our safety wide management approach to implement a safety culture in all performance. Our global newsletter “Learning from one another” areas of occupational and transportation safety. It defines binding provides information on incidents and topical safety issues. 74 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EVONIK Safety Occupational safety | Plant safety Occupational safety The accident frequency rate 1, 3 for contractors’ employees was ESTER software platform for ESHQ processes 3.03, slightly above the previous year’s very good rate of 2.77. ESTER (Evonik Standard Tool ESHQ and Reporting), We pay special attention to occupational safety. The catering area was responsible for the increase in accident our new digital platform, has established uniform global The safety of our employees covers safety on the frequency, however only minor injuries were involved. standards for the environment, safety, health, and quality way to and from work as well as safety at work. (ESHQ) for the first time. In future, we will have key Contractors’ employees working at our sites are Accident frequency indicator, contractors’ employees a C30 performance indicators and facts at our fingertips through­ also included. out the Evonik Group. Fast availability of all data greatly Number of work-related accidents involving non-Evonik employees resulting in absence from work per 1 million working hours enhances transparency. As well as harmonizing processes, we expect ESTER to make workflows leaner and broaden Strategy and management 2015 2.90 the data available on our safety performance. Additional Accident frequency is our key performance indicator for occupa2016 3.15 indicators can also be derived to improve Evonik’s ESHQ tional safety. In 2019, we achieved our target of remaining below 2017 3.52 performance. the defined maximum accident frequency rate 1 of 1.30 for Evonik 2018 2.77 employees 2. The accident frequency rate was 1.18, which was 2019 3.03 above the rate recorded in the previous year (0.87). In the Target 1 Target 2 reporting period, most accidents occurred in the service units, especially in the area of logistics. Specific action will be taken in 0.0 1.0 2.0 3.0 4.0 Group-wide Replace many a Calculation based on assumptions and estimates. ESH software IT solutions 2020 at the sites that were most affected. 3 4 Accident frequency indicator C29 Target Target Plant safety Number of accidents Upper limit Improve Reduce the time per 1 million working hours ≤ 1.30 ESH performance and expense for ESH Safety is part of our DNA: It is the basic 2015 0.97 precondition for the operation of our facilities 2016 1.24 and their performance. The software platform was configured in the first half 2017 1.16 of 2019, paving the way for the global rollout. The first 2018 0.87 phase comprised introducing the incident management, Strategy and management 2019 1.18 management of change, hazard assessment, and legal comIncident frequency is used to measure the safety of our plants. In pliance modules, first in North America (Mobile, Wichita), 0.0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2019, we once again documented the process safety of our plants then in Asia (Singapore, Shanghai) and Europe (Wesseling, based on the number of incidents involving the release of subRheinfelden). ESTER should be available at all sites by stances, fire, or explosion (process safety performance indicator mid-2020. Planning of the second phase will then start. There were no fatal accidents at work involving our employees defined by the European Chemical Industry Council, Cefic). or contractors’ employees at our sites in the reporting period. There were no incidents involving the release of hazardous However, there was one fatal traffic accident involving an substances resulting in serious injury or a significant impact on employee traveling to work in Belgium. human health, the soil, flora, surface water, or groundwater. 1 This indicator contains all work-related accidents (excluding traffic accidents) resulting in absences of at least one full shift per 1 million working hours. 2 Evonik employees including employees from staffing agencies. 3 The method of calculating working hours has been changed. This prevents direct comparison with the prior-year figure. 306-3 75 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EVONIK Safety Transportation safety and logistics The number of incidents per 1 million working hours was 1.10. standing of the potential for improvement. In this way, Evonik Outgoing shipments of hazardous goods a T25 Therefore, we once again achieved our target, which sets an has also adopted the recommendations of the International in thousand metric tons 2017 2018 2019 upper limit of 1.10. The development of the incident frequency Council of Chemical Associations (ICCA). In the reporting period, indicator in recent years shows that the measures introduced are we achieved a reference level of 0.31. Air 0.4 0.4 0.9 having a long-term effect. Ocean 408 646 552 Inland waterway 752 808 830 Incident frequency indicator C31 Rail 586 751 648 Transportation safety and logistics Pipeline b 826 807 656 Number of incidents Upper limit per 1 million working hours ≤ 1.10 Road 1,569 1,992 1,759 Our aim is to minimize risk at all stages, from 2015 1.29 Total 4,141 5,005 4,446 loading through transportation to unloading. 2016 0.95 The standards we set for the transportation of a c Excluding goods collected by customers. External shipments only. 2017 1.11 dangerous goods are even higher than the 2018 1.08 national and international regulations. Outgoing shipments of other goods a T26 2019 1.10 in thousand metric tons 2017 2018 2019 b 0.00 0.40 0.80 1.20 1.60 Strategy and management To support safe transportation by logistics partners, the use of Air 5 6 4 requirements profiles for logistics service providers and collection Ocean 1,221 1,332 1,177 In addition, we raised the efficiency of our safety management by customers is common practice at Evonik in Europe. In addition Inland waterway 52 116 50 system in the reporting period. We use an ESHQE 1 management to quality management, the specific aims of these profiles are Rail 459 331 170 handbook, which is applicable everywhere in the world, and new to ensure safety, make sure loads are properly secured, and Pipeline b 20 36 9 rules for cybersecurity in the operation of our production facilitake environmental and sustainability aspects into account in Road 2,712 2,684 2,549 ties (see chapter “Governance and compliance” p. 32). the transportation of chemicals. We extended this concept in Total 4,469 4,504 3,959 2019: A requirements profile for warehouse service providers Our goal is to continually improve our safety performance. was almost completed and should be implemented in 2020. a Excluding goods collected by customers. b External shipments only. In order to direct our safety management measures more effiThis requirements profile focuses principally on meeting quality ciently and more effectively, we have reduced the threshold for standards, general safety regulations, risk management, and recording incidents. In line with a Cefic definition, we have general compliance with legal requirements and environmental from the duties of people charged with filling and emptying therefore introduced a new key performance indicator (KPI) protection guidelines. tanks to handling of valves, couplings, and seals, including both to measure energy and product leakages below the present theoretical examples and practical exercises on road and rail thresholds 2. This new KPI measures the number of incidents per Our activities in 2019 tankers and model valves. The training also included appropriate 200,000 working hours in our production facilities, compared Extensive training on safe filling and emptying of tanks and tankers safety measures in the event of spills and incidents. with per 1 million working hours in the past. We expect more was carried out at our site in Wesseling (Germany) in 2019. The detailed data collection and evaluation to deepen our under topics covered by this specially designed training course ranged 1 ESHQE = Environment, safety, health, quality, and energy. 2 The new volume thresholds are 1/10/100 kg depending on the hazard class, compared with the conventional reporting thresholds of 5/100/2,000 kg. 76 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EVONIK Safety Our targets Focus on digitalization and sustainability at our Rheinfelden site were replaced by a modern locomotive Our targets The establishment of our group-wide transport management and a road/rail shunter. The modernization of our fleet helps us system is progressing. It is now used at our sites in Marl, Herne/ reduce fuel consumption and emissions. Below is an overview of the targets set for our Witte, Lülsdorf, and Wittenburg (Germany). Introduction of the safety area of action. The targets defined for 2020 basic functionality has therefore been completed. Alongside conTogether with the Federal Ministry of Transport and Digital and beyond have been sharpened and streamlined ventional transportation planning and billing processes, we have Infrastructure, the German international cooperation organi­ to enhance their strategic relevance. therefore paved the way for digitalization of site-specific prozation GIZ, and private-sector companies, Evonik is involved in cesses (yard and slot management) and the creation of a collaboa development partnership to improve the safety of dangerous ration platform for the placement of orders with transportation goods transportation in China. Our contribution includes raising Target attainment in 2019 companies. stakeholders’ awareness of the importance of correct classifi­ cation of dangerous goods. The aim is to reduce cases of Monitoring of workflows in operating processes should enable transportation that are incorrectly classified or not classified as Accident frequency rate ≤ 1.30 us to provide timely information for customers and implement any dangerous goods. planning adjustments across networks. Transparency in respect of Incident frequency rate ≤ 1.10 demand for, and supply of, freight capacity, freight agreements, Evonik evaluates accidents in the shipment goods using the and prices allows optimal allocation of means of transportation, criteria set out in section 1.8.5 ADR. Pilot ESTER; global rollout from the second half with the best possible delivery quality and adherence to delivery of the year schedules. Transparent planning enables us to reduce empty runs In Germany, a slight leakage in coupling components occurred and idling times and improve the use of transportation capacity when coupling a railroad tanker containing methacrylonitrile. Locomotive strategy: replace two old shunters by selective consolidation of loads. Control room functionalities This resulted in a slight spillage. The incident was investigated in Rheinfelden by one modern locomotive and a contribute to efficient management and execution of transpor­ thoroughly, and action was derived from this. road/rail shunter tation at our sites. Evonik uses load securing equipment to optimize the secure Implement the requirements profile for warehouse As part of our digital agenda, we have developed a training loading of industrially packaged goods. The introduction of service providers; implement the global minimum module for checking vehicles transporting dangerous goods. This Drumguard® combines economic benefits with a sustainable use standard for logistics service providers; define details has been optimized for computer use. All learning content concept. Drumguard® comprises two components and is thereof the evaluation of European rail logistics providers required to meet the dangerous goods regulations integrated into fore far easier to use than conventional straps and shrink-wrap using SQAS Rail 2,3 the ADR 1 check is now provided in an entertaining format to film. This reusable system replaces non-reusable plastic or metal improve training of our staff. materials. Drums can be secured quickly on pallets to form load units in compliance with national and international regulations on Targets for 2020 and beyond In 2019, we continued to optimize the intralogistics of our fleet. transportation and dangerous goods. In accordance with our locomotive strategy, two old engines Accident frequency rate ≤ 1.30 Incident frequency rate ≤ 1.10 1  ccord européen relatif au transport international des marchandises Dangereuses par Route, English: European Agreement concerning the International Carriage of Dangerous A Goods by Road. Target not achieved 2 SQAS Rail stands for a Cefic safety and quality evaluation system for rail transport. 3 Since we streamlined and sharpened our targets with a view to strategic relevance in 2019, we have not set targets for 2020 and beyond. We will continue to work on these Target partially achieved or target horizon extends beyond 2019 objectives and to report on them. Target achieved 77 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EVONIK commitment to society COMMITMENT TO SOCIETY As a company, our aim is to create value for society that goes beyond our own growth targets. Focal areas: Social projects Education & science Sports Culture 78 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EVONIK commitment to society Our commitment to society COMMITMENT TO SOCIETY Donations and sponsorship C32 The Evonik Group’s activities in 2019 The Young Spirit initiative lives from the commitment of our 78 Our commitment to society  203-1, 415-1 Focus on public projects employees, who enjoy passing on their enthusiasm for science 78 Strategy and management 78 The Evonik Group’s activities in 2019 Evonik provided €3.7 million for donations and sponsorship projects in 2019. to children aged between four and ten on a voluntary basis. This budget was used principally for science & education, social projects, 79 The Evonik Foundation’s activities in 2019 A new digital collaboration platform with video-based content culture & the arts, and sports. enables the volunteers to pass on their knowledge without being tied to specific times or locations. This initiative is increasingly Sports 9% a becoming an international network, with volunteers conducting Other 10% b self-organized experimental days at schools and preschools and encouraging children’s passion for science with the aid of Our commitment to society Education & science 32% hands-on experiments. The number of volunteers has now Social projects 19% increased to around 250. Our donations and sponsorship activities complement the wide-ranging contributions made by the personal commitment of our employees worldwide. Culture & the arts 30% Strategy and management a Excluding sponsorship of the Borussia Dortmund soccer club. Our commitment comprises donations and sponsorship activities, b Including donations of €210,000 to political parties in Germany: €90,000 was donated with a special focus on Evonik’s core competencies: creativity, to the CDU, €80,000 to the SPD, €20,000 to Bündnis 90/Die Grünen, and €20,000 to the FDP. specialization, self-renewal, and reliability. We only sponsor projects and initiatives that fit our core brand. In addition, our aim is to foster the positive development of society around our sites worldwide. Our operating units support their own projects tailored to their The Evonik Foundation has a special place in Evonik’s social comYoung Spirit brings science to a class in Dubai. business and local communities—within our strategic guidelines, mitment. Its motto is supporting people because it is people who which are set out in our policies on donations and sponsorship. shape the future. The Evonik Foundation pursues its goals Overall, we concentrate our social commitment on the areas of through its own programs and projects and by making donations We have close contact with many schools close to our sites. In education and science, social projects, culture, and sports. to support projects by other organizations. The foundation’s 2019, we continued to develop the Evonik Cyber Classroom for mission defines young people, science, and integration as its our partner schools. This virtual 3D learning system is now also In addition, Evonik contributes to society in a variety of different key areas of focus. Every application for support is evaluated on available as an app for smartphones and tablet PCs for use in ways. These are outlined in further detail in the chapter “Strategy the basis of the foundation’s mission. To qualify for assistance, chemistry lessons. In Mumbai (India), we provided educational and growth” p. 12. a project must meet at least two of the key criteria and must fall materials for children and teachers at an elementary school. In within one of the focal areas of the foundation’s mission: educaMyanmar, we supported a project to improve the infrastructure tion, science, culture and the arts, the church, social projects, and at a local elementary school. In Tippecanoe (Indiana, USA), we sports. The Evonik Foundation’s support centers primarily on Gerhelped teachers organize special educational programs in science, many, with a special focus on the regions close to Evonik’s sites. technology, engineering, and math. 79 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EVONIK commitment to society Our commitment to society Given the history of our company, we are sensitive to attempts to The Evonik Foundation’s activities in 2019 trivialize the Nazi period. In the reporting period, Evonik thereThe Evonik Foundation supports measures aimed, in particular, fore sponsored a trip to Auschwitz by holocaust studies students at upcoming scientists, and educational programs for socially in Frankfurt and made a financial contribution to an exhibition at disadvantaged children and young people. Both were a focus of The Evonik the Historical Museum in Frankfurt on the city in the Nazi period. the tenth anniversary of the Evonik Foundation in 2019. In close Foundation Other activities included an excursion by a 40-member delegacooperation with twelve Evonik sites in Germany, the foundation supports ­organizations in tion comprising employees of Evonik and Borussia Dortmund to sponsored 26 projects for disadvantaged children and young Essen that give the Auschwitz memorial. We also supported an exhibition about people, ranging from help with language and reading, through disadvantaged the history of I.G. Farben and the Monowitz concentration camp the use of media to riding therapy and support for homeless children and young people by organizing an extensive supplementary program of events in youngsters. a perspective Dortmund. for the future. The anniversary project focusing on scientific education for the In 2019, we continued our partnership with the intonations chamyounger generation was a Perspectives Forum on future-oriented ber music festival in Berlin, the Balthasar-Neumann choir and issues organized in conjunction with the Jugend forscht foun­ The Evonik Foundation awards scholarships through the followensemble conducted by Thomas Hengelbrock, the Ruhr festival dation. 40 former contestants in the Jugend forscht science ing programs: in Recklinghausen, the lit.RUHR literature festival in Essen, the competition aged between 21 and 27 were given an opportunity Küppersmühle museum in Duisburg, and the “TUP in schools” to find out more about Evonik’s corporate foresight research • Evonik Foundation scholarship for science doctorates: In theater program for children and young people in Essen. under the motto “Towards a digital green chemistry.” In work2019, a total of 16 doctoral students at eleven universities shops, they worked on future scenarios for education, nutrition, received industry-related scholarships. Evonik supports both popular and professional sports activities. health, mobility, and production, and developed innovative ideas For example, through the BVB Evonik Soccer Academy, we aim to for new products. • Germany Scholarship: For students who have a good acaencourage kids’ passion for soccer around the world. In summer demic record and social commitment. In 2019, 45 students at 2019, the academy once again toured the USA for Evonik: during A range of other projects are aimed at educationally disad­ nine universities received a Germany Scholarship from the a foreign tour by the team, the professional soccer players once vantaged children and young people. One example is the “Do it Evonik Foundation. again provided training sessions for several hundred children. better” project devised in collaboration with the Essener Chancen organization and the Essen Nord-Ost high school, where the • Scholarships for refugees studying for a bachelor’s or masIn addition, Evonik supported many social and ecological projects majority of pupils have a migration background: The children ter’s degree at the Ruhr University in Bochum: In 2019, we in 2019, including Saber Viver (learning to live) at the Barra do received assistance with homework and subjects they found supported a total of 16 scholarship students. Riacho site in Brazil. Through various educational and socio-­ difficult in order to help them achieve the best possible grades in cultural offerings, this initiative fosters children and young peothe school-leaving examinations. • START scholarship in cooperation with the START Foun­ ple in order to strengthen bonds with families, schools, and the dation: Since 2018, the Evonik Foundation has supported community. In South Africa, we supported various projects by In 2018, the Evonik Foundation and the Westerwelle Foundation five talented youngsters with a migration background in their the Utho Ngathi organization, which encourages the integration opened the “Westerwelle Startup House powered by Evonik personal development and schoolwork. of young people with disabilities in rural areas. Stiftung” in Kigali (Rwanda). This has become a central point for young entrepreneurs and start-ups. In May 2019, the centerpiece was opened: a “makerspace” designed by Evonik’s training unit. The aim is to drive forward the professional abilities of young entrepreneurs in order to open up new local business prospects. 80 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EVONIK Basis of reporting Overview of sustainability indicators for the Evonik Group Overview of sustainability indicators for the Evonik Group The following overview contains the main indicators for our six sustainability areas of action. You can find more detailed information in the relevant chapters. Sustainability indicators 2019 201-1, 103-2 T27 2016 2017 2018 2019 STRATEGY AND GROWTH Value added in € million 4,616 4,684 a 4,740 5,994 Women at the first management level below the executive board in % 16.7 25.0 27.3 26.1 Women at the second management level below the executive board in % 9.5 15.4 20.0 24.1 Training rate b antitrust law in % 937 59 74 82 GOVERNANCE b AND COMPLIANCE Training rate fighting corruption in % 828 84 83 91 Training rate b code of conduct in % 12,025 71 77 89 Internal investigations 33 27 90 c 109 Disciplinary measures 17 12 106 d 60 Procurement volume in € billion 7.6 9.1 9.9 9.4 Production output in million metric tons 10.58 10.98 11.03 9.16 Use of renewable resources in production in % 9.2 10.4 9.7 7.9 a Prior-year figures adjusted in some cases due to IFRS 15. Raw material suppliers covered by TfS assessments e –– –– –– 66 b From 2017, the training rates are given as a percentage; the figure VALUE CHAIN for 2016 is an absolute figure and is therefore not comparable. AND PRODUCTS No. of sustainability audits (TfS) 241 441 358 309 The training rate is defined as the number of training candidates with a valid certificate relative to the total number of training candidates No. of sustainability audits (Evonik) 29 28 22 26 as of December 31, 2019. c From 2018, reporting extended to include all internal investigations No. of sustainability assessments (TfS) 1,773 1,794 1,491 1,043 in the Evonik Group. d In some cases, more than one measure was taken as a result of No. of sustainability assessments (Evonik) 145 149 130 117 an investigation. R&D expenses in € million 438 476 f 459 428 e Annual procurement volume > €100 thousand. f The costs of Corporate Innovation are included from 2017; g Scope 1 greenhouse gas emissions in million metric tons 5.4 5.6 5.7 4.9 2017 figure restated. g CO2 equivalents. Scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions in million metric tons h 1.0 0.9 0.9 0.6 h CO2 equivalents, net (market-based). THE ENVIRONMENT i In some cases, calculation is based on assumptions and estimates. Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions in million metric tons i 19.5 20.4 21.0 –j j The figure for 2019 is expected to be published in mid-2020. k From 2016, excluding apprentices in Germany. Reduction in greenhouse gas emissions (scope 1/2) in million metric tons –– –– – 31 – 42 l Management circles 1 – 3; prior-year figure restated, excluding the Early employee turnover in % 1.2 1.4 0.9 0.9 methacrylates business. m Max. 6.0 (index takes account of key aspects of occupational medicine, Continuing professional development per employee in hours k 16 12 16 16 health promotion, and emergency medical management). EMPLOYEES n This indicator contains all work-related accidents (excluding traffic l Female managers in % 22.0 23.2 24.3 25.2 accidents) resulting in absences of at least one full shift Occupational health performance index m 5.5 5.4 5.5 5.5 per 1 million working hours. o Number of incidents per 1 million working hours. n p From 2017, the indicator is shown as an absolute amount Accident frequency 1.24 1.16 0.87 1.18 SAFETY defined as the number of incidents per 1 million working hours Incident frequency o 43 1.11p 1.08 1.10 (previous years in percent). 81 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EVONIK Basis of reporting Status of our sustainability targets for 2019 Status of our sustainability targets for 2019 102-14, 102-15, 103-2 Sustainability targets 2019  T28 Strategy and growth p. 22 The environment p. 60 ▯ Anchor sustainability in strategy dialogues ▯ Reduce absolute scope 1 and scope 2 emissions by 50 percent by 2025 (reference base: 2008) ▯ Synchronize the publication date of financial and non-financial reports ▯ Develop site-specific action plans for sites that are potentially exposed to water stress as part of a global water management system ▯ Review the SDGs of relevance for Evonik (from 2020) Impact valuation: ▯ Further reduce production waste. 2019 and beyond ▯ Complete the global monetary valuation of the impact of our business along the value chain Employees p. 71 ▯ Update the data to include 2017 and 2018 ▯ Conduct a sustainability analysis of our business using the extended methodology ▯ Analyze the results of the global employee survey ▯ Ongoing development of the global development strategy, supported by modern learning tools Governance and compliance p. 32 ▯ Discuss and implement Evonik’s new corporate values worldwide ▯ Proportion of female executive board members: 25 percent up to June 30, 2022 Further support for diversity at Evonik ▯ Women at the first two management levels below the executive board: 20 percent at each level by year-end 2019 ▯ Increase the percentage of women in middle and senior management ▯ Recruitment of women for management positions should reflect the gender distribution in relevant disciplines ▯ Structure and implement the revised internal regulations on gifts and hospitality ▯ Increase the proportion of international managers in middle management ▯ Introduce uniform group-wide standards on monitoring business partners ▯ Occupational health performance index ≥5.0. 2019 and beyond ▯ Update the rules on internal investigations ▯ Include further sites in the calculation of this index (+5 in 2019) Value chain and products p. 42 Safety p. 76 ▯ Conduct at least 20 supplier sustainability audits p.a. under the shared audit principle of the Together for ▯ Accident frequency rate should be ≤ 1.30. 2019 and beyond Sustainability initiative. 2019 and beyond ▯ Incident frequency rate should be ≤ 1.10. 2019 and beyond ▯ Continue the analysis of suppliers by reviewing at least 80 TfS assessments. 2019 and beyond ▯ Pilot ESTER; global rollout from the second half of 2019 ▯ Evaluate the sustainability performance of 90 percent of suppliers of critical raw materials by 2020 ▯ Locomotive strategy: replace two old shunters in Rheinfelden by one modern locomotive and a road/rail shunter ▯ Generate more than €1 billion in additional sales by 2025 in our six innovation growth fields by 2025 ▯ Implement the requirements profile for warehouse service providers. 2019 and beyond; implement the global ▯ Increase sales of products and applications developed in the past five years to 16 percent in the mid term minimum standard for logistics service providers. 2019 and beyond; define details of the evaluation of European ▯ Develop recommendations for action on palm oil, palm kernel oil, and their derivatives at Evonik. 2019 and beyond rail logistics providers using SQAS Rail d ▯ External monitoring of suppliers of renewable raw materials and in-house supplier criteria. 2019 and beyond ▯ Establish a risk estimate for >99 percent of substances placed on the market in quantities of > 1 metric ton p.a. a hChC = hazardous chemicals of high concern. Target not achieved by the end of 2020 b CMR = carcinogenic, mutagenic, reprotoxic. Target partially achieved or target horizon ▯ Conduct a more far-reaching assessment of all products containing > 0.1 percent hazardous chemicals of c PBT = persistent, bioaccumulative, toxic. d SQAS Rail stands for a Cefic safety and quality evaluation extends beyond 2019 high concern (hChC) a, e.g., CMR b 1A/1B, PBT c (CMSPLUS) by the end of 2020 Target achieved system for rail transport. 82 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EVONIK Basis of reporting About this report About this report Our sustainability strategy underscores our endeavors to gain charts have been included to enhance the content and improve a precise understanding of the principal influences and impacts transparency. These include charts on our water data (C 21 p. 57), Evonik’s sustainability report 2019 on the value created by Evonik. These complex interrelationships the audit escalation process for suppliers (C19 p. 36), and an This is the twelfth full sustainability report published by Evonik. are illustrated by three charts in this report: resources and overview of more than 140 years of active responsibility at The report covers the year 2019 (January 1 to December 31, 2019), value contributed (C06 p. 13), impact of our business activities Evonik (C03 p. 6). except where otherwise indicated, and is based on Evonik’s orga(C07 p. 14), and monetary impact valuation (C08 p. 15). In nizational structure in 2019. The aim is to give our customers, addition, the chart headed areas of action and impact of Evonik’s The executive board bears overall responsibility for sustainability, suppliers, employees, owners, and the general public an insight business (C13 p. 23) provides an insight into the possibilities and and direct responsibility is assigned to the chief human resources into how we run our business and drive forward sustainability in limits of our influence within the value chain—for example, officer, who is also responsible for all climate-related aspects. the Evonik Group. The sustainability report supplements the ecothrough our procurement volume, our management systems, or He approved the content of this report and confirmed that it logical and societal aspects included in the financial report 2019. current business processes. addresses all material sustainability topics of relevance for Evonik The next sustainability report will be published in 2021. and its stakeholders. Non-financial risks have been given a more prominent place in Method our conventional risk reporting since 2017: Sustainability opporAs well as continuing to develop the content of this report, This year, the focus was on implementing the Sustainability tunities and risks are systematically identified, monitored, and our processes were organized to ensure that, for the second time, Strategy 2020+, which was adopted by the executive board in reported via our risk management system. In view of the rising the publication date coincides with the publication of the finanFebruary 2019. One element is continuously improving our susimportance of climate-related opportunities and risks, we have cial report. At our financial press conference on March 4, 2020, tainability reporting. In view of this, the report on 2019 has been extended our reporting on these factors. For the first time, this journalists and members of the financial community can obtain a aligned even more stringently than in the past to our materiality report contains climate-related information in the categories full view of Evonik’s financial and non-financial performance. analysis. The structure is systematically aligned to the 19 sustaingovernance, strategy, risk management, and metrics and targets in ability topics identified as material. The topics with the highest line with the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-­ This report is published in English and German and is available priority are sustainable products/solutions for our customers, related Financial Disclosures (TCFD, see p. 85). This is addisolely in electronic form. It can be downloaded from the responclimate change, and efficient use of scarce resources/circular tional to the facts and figures that we have published in connecsibility section of Evonik’s website https://corporate.evonik.com/en/ economy. Several case studies are used to show how we manage tion with our participation in CDP Climate Change. responsibility/. 102-8, 103-2, 302-1, 302-4, 305-1, 305-2, 305-3, 305-4, 305-5, the associated sustainability issues in the company. 305-6, 305-7, 306-2, 306-3 102-48, 102-49 Evonik supports the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and has systematically taken them into account for The strategic aspiration of our sustainability report 2019 has risen several years. In 2018, we developed our own methodology to further compared with previous years. For the specific areas identify the most important SDGs for Evonik. In 2019, the SDGs of action, we have set fewer targets, but their relevance has been of relevance to the Evonik Group were included for the first time streamlined and sharpened. They are monitored using perforin the sustainability analysis of our business 2.0 (see chapter mance indicators. The introductory pages to the chapters also “Strategy and growth” p. 14). Moreover, for the first time we focus on selected key performance indicators. Overall, we place have linked the GRI content index to the 17 SDGs and there is great importance on the measurability of our sustainability activalso an index with references to information on the sub-targets ities. Therefore, the texts relating to the sustainability analysis of for the four SDGs of relevance to Evonik. our business and our impact valuation are now contained in the chapter on strategy; in the past they were included in the chapter Rapid access to data and a clear structure are important to us. on the value chain and products. In view of this, we have included overviews of our key sustainability indicators, target attainment, and future targets. Additional 83 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EVONIK Basis of reporting About this report Data capture, scope of reporting, and limits Since the sustainability report and the financial report are now Material portfolio changes of relevance for ESH Our data cover the relevant companies worldwide that were published on the same date, the closing date for the environ­ In order to sharpen its focus on specialty chemicals, Evonik sold included in the scope of consolidation 1 for the consolidated mental data is September 30, 2019 (see the section headed its methacrylates business on August 1, 2019. As a result, some financial statements of Evonik Industries AG for the period from “Fast close process and corrections” p. 84). The HR data data in this report have been adjusted to reflect this divestment: January 1 through December 31, 2019. The consolidated financial obtained from the HR information collector are based on the statements are prepared in accordance with the International actual data as of September 30, 2019. In this context, only the Data on the methacrylates business in our report T29 Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). Alongside Evonik Indusnumber of hours of continuing professional development have Chapter 2018 2019 tries AG, they include all material German and foreign subsidiarbeen projected for a twelve-month period. ies directly or indirectly controlled by Evonik Industries AG. Joint At a glance Adjusted Adjusted operations are included on a pro rata basis. Material associates The segmentation used in this report reflects group and segment Strategy and growth and joint ventures are recognized at equity if Evonik is able to interests in order to provide a detailed reflection of production Sustainability analysis exert a significant influence. Initial consolidation or deconsolidaactivities. In some cases, data are reported at plant level to of our business --Adjusted tion takes place as of the date on which the company gains or ensure this. Impact valuation --Adjusted loses its controlling influence. 102-45,102-46, 102-48, 102-49 Governance and compliance --Adjusted All reporting units are clearly coded to allocate them to organizaValue chain and products In 2019, the Evonik Group comprised 40 German and 115 foreign tional and business entities and geographical region. This allows Supply chain Not adjusted Not adjusted companies. Relevant data on personnel and social indicators are consolidation at management and legal entity level as well as Research and development Adjusted Adjusted based largely on the global SAP HR information system. For supa detailed regional analysis of the data. The ecological data are Production inputs Not adjusted Not adjusted plementary information, we use the HR information collector updated annually without taking changes in the Evonik Group (SAP notes management). The focus of our reporting and thus into account. The prior-year figures are not adjusted for changes Production volume Not adjusted Adjusted the limits of our report are based principally on the sustainability in the portfolio of companies consolidated. The figures for each Renewable raw materials Not adjusted Not adjusted topics derived from our materiality analysis. company are included in full, without adjustment to reflect The environment Not adjusted Adjusted Evonik’s stake in them. Employees Adjusted Adjusted The ecological data 2 comprise emissions and consumption data Safety Not adjusted Adjusted for 96 production sites in 26 countries and thus cover our entire The key data in this report are rounded in line with standard production volume. Occupational safety data 2 include other small commercial practice. In some cases, this may mean that individual production sites and non-production locations (mainly adminisvalues do not add up exactly to the totals given and percentages From an environmental perspective, the effect of the divestment tration sites), so the data here cover 197 locations in 54 countries. are not an exact reflection of the values stated. was significant and had a considerable impact on the developThe data are compiled using sustainability reporting software ment of the environmental data in 2019. Since the methacrylates developed specifically for this purpose (SuRe 2.0). In the mid business was no longer managed separately in 2019, the presenterm, the data will be compiled using the new ESTER platform tation of the key environmental data in the reporting period only (Evonik Standard Tool ESHQ and Reporting). Rollout of this tool contains the continuing operations (without the methacrylates started in the reporting period. We aim to complete the rollout to business). The impact of the other acquisitions and divestments all Evonik locations worldwide by mid-2020. on the environmental reporting in 2019 was not significant. 102-48, 102-49 1 An overview of all companies included in the consolidated financial statements and all shareholdings pursuant to section 313 paragraph 2 of the German Commercial Code (HGB) is presented in the list of shareholdings. www.evonik.com/list-of-shareholdings 2 Excluding the methacrylates business. 84 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EVONIK Basis of reporting About this report Fast close process and corrections Irrespective of the data validation in the “fast close” process, our Since the financial report and the sustainability report are pubESHQ data are subject to a wide range of internal and external lished on the same date, it was necessary to speed up our annual audits and official monitoring. If these show errors in the data, environmental reporting (“fast close” process). To achieve this, a correction is made in the sustainability report if the difference quarterly reporting has been extended, and the remaining annual in the data for the Evonik Group exceeds 5 percent. reporting has been brought forward to September 30, the Q3 closing date. The annual reporting mainly comprises emissions GRI and UN Global Compact into the air (excluding CO2) and wastewater loads. Quarterly This report has been prepared in accordance with GRI Standards, reporting focuses on energy, CO2, production, waste, and water core option. Insofar as possible, we have applied the new GRI requirements, especially with reference to the progress towards Standards 303 “Water and wastewater” and 403 “Occupational attaining our environmental targets. health and safety” from 2018. Further, this report takes account of the ten principles of the UN Global Compact and constitutes For the data still compiled only once a year, the environmental Evonik’s progress report on these principles. impact is calculated or estimated on a decentralized basis on September 30 for the remainder of the year, i.e., for the fourth External assurance quarter. Data input by the sites takes into account any deviations To ensure it is up-to-date, we have included all relevant data from regular operations in the fourth quarter such as maintenance available to us as of the editorial deadline on February 18, 2020. shutdowns, seasonal effects, and production forecasts. For the The chapters titled “Strategy and growth,” “Governance and data compiled quarterly, Corporate ESHQ calculates the fourth compliance,” “Value chain and products,” “The environment,” quarter (Q4) data centrally on the basis of the data for the “Employees,” and “Safety,” and the sections headed “Our busifirst three quarters. Additional, targeted questions on material ness model” and “Fiscal 2019” were subject to a limited assurance environmentally relevant facilities are used for this. The Q4 data review by PricewaterhouseCoopers GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsrequests are forwarded to the sites/facilities as usual, and the gesellschaft (indicated by ). The independent practitioner’s data have to be submitted by mid-January of the following year. limited assurance report is printed on p. 97/98. 102-56 In the first quarter, Corporate ESHQ compares the actual Q4 data entered in the system with the forecast or calculated data for the fast close report, analyzes any discrepancies, and takes steps to continuously improve calculation methods as necessary. If the difference between the actual and published data is more than 5 percent, this is drawn to the attention of the auditors and corrected in the next report. In the sustainability report 2019, corrections have been made to the 2018 data on investment in environmental protection and construction and demolition waste. Naturally, these items depend on specific measures, so they can vary considerably from year to year. 85 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EVONIK Basis of reporting TCFD index TCFD index We are following the objectives of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) and the ongoing development of established reporting standards with great interest. In keeping with its participation in CDP Climate Change (see sustainability report “Ratings and indices 2019” p. 100), in 2019 Evonik again issued detailed strategies, data, and development paths on climate change. This information is available on our website http://evonik.com/CDP-ClimateChange_2019. For many years, we have also reported climate-related facts and figures in our combined management report and sustainability report. For the first time, key climate-related information is presented in the following overview using the TCFD structure, divided into the categories governance, strategy, risk management, and metrics and targets. TCFD index  T30 Climate-related information by category You can find further information here: Climate-related information by category You can find further information here: Governance Risk management Climate change is a matter of the utmost importance for the entire executive Management report, In keeping with the executive board’s overall responsibility, the chief financial Management report, board. Responsibility for our group-wide sustainability and climate strategy, chapter 5.3 The environment p. 48 ff. officer (CFO) is responsible for ensuring the correct functioning of risk chapter 6. Opportunity and risk report monitoring, and reporting is assigned to the member of the executive board management. To ensure this, we use an integrated, multidisciplinary opporp. 53 ff. responsible for human resources, sustainability, and ESHQ (environment, safety, Sustainability report, tunity and risk management system, which explicitly includes climate-related health, and quality). The head of Corporate ESHQ reports regularly to the exchapter Strategy and growth p. 10 opportunities and risks. Opportunities and risks are identified and evaluated 2019 CDP Climate Change response: ecutive board on climate-related issues. These include environmental indicators, group-wide and measures are taken to control and monitor them. Chapter Risks and opportunities including climate-related performance indicators, as well as targets and target http://evonik.com/ attainment. In addition, the responsible member of the executive board and the The risk committee chaired by the CFO meets quarterly. The corporate risk CDP-ClimateChange_2019 heads of Corporate ESHQ and Corporate Sustainability are members of the 2019 CDP Climate Change response: officer reports regularly to the executive board on the opportunities and risks human resources executive committee, which defines the strategic approach on chapter Governance for the Evonik Group, including climate-related risks. climate-related issues. The other members of this committee are representatives http://evonik.com/ Metrics and targets of the segments, corporate functions, and regions, and technical experts. The CDP-ClimateChange_2019 executive board discusses relevant issues relating to sustainability, the environEvonik and its predecessor companies have defined ambitious environmental Management report, ment, safety, health, and quality, and the status and progress of the various targets since 2004. As part of their continuous development, the executive chapter 1.2 Principles and objectives programs with the heads of the segments and corporate functions on a quarboard adopted new environmental targets in February 2019. Our target of a p. 15 f., chapter 5.3 The environment terly basis. The new Climate Strategy 2020+ was presented to the supervisory 50 percent reduction in absolute scope 1 and 2 emissions by 2025, compared p. 48 ff. board in 2019. with the level in 2008—the first full year after the establishment of Evonik— affirms our commitment to the Paris Agreement on Climate Change. In addition Sustainability report, chapter Strategy to this, we intend to improve our scope 3 emissions in the upstream value chain The environment p. 49 Climate change involves perceptible opportunities and risks for Evonik. Therefore, Management report, by 3 percent a year. Out of the various categories of scope 3 emissions, the all material elements along the value chain are considered in the development of chapter 6. Opportunity and risk report most relevant for Evonik is category 1 (purchase of chemical raw materials, 2019 CDP Climate Change response: our strategy. The most important upstream factor is the raw material “backpack” p. 53 ff. packaging materials, and indirect goods) as it accounts for over 40 percent of chapter Targets and performance of the starting products we source; in the operation of our production facilities, our scope 3 emissions. http://evonik.com/ it is scope 1 and 2 emissions. Downstream, our products improve our customers’ CDP-ClimateChange_2019 a CO2 performance. Examples can be found in the Evonik Carbon Footprint Evonik Carbon Footprint Our CO2eq emissions are calculated on the basis of the brochure, which is revised every year. We want to increase this proportion by www.evonik.com/responsibility Greenhouse Gas Protocol. developing further innovative products. In view of the increasing climate awareness, we expect a further rise in demand, with a correspondingly positive In 2019, our CO2eq emissions were: impact on our business. Scope 1 emissions: 4.9 million metric tons Scope 2 emissions b: 0.6 million metric tons We have also identified short-, midand long-term transition risks and physical 2019 CDP Climate Change response: Scope 3 emissions 21.0 million metric tons (2018) risks. You can find an extensive description of the individual risks in the 2019 chapter Business Strategy a CO2 equivalents. CDP Climate Change questionnaire. The shortand mid-term opportunities and http://evonik.com/ b Scope 2 emissions, net (market-based). In the net view, electricity and steam supplied to risks are taken into account in our financial planning. CDP-ClimateChange_2019 third parties are subtracted from the input volumes. To reduce our climate-driven risks, our strategy defines ambitious targets. 86 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EVONIK Basis of reporting SDG index SDG index Targets for the SDGs of relevance for Evonik T31 Relevant targets Reference in sustainability report 2019 Reporting on the targets for the SDGs of relevance for Evonik SDG 3—Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages Evonik supports the United Nations’ 17 Sustainable 3.9: By 2030, substantially reduce the number of deaths and illnesses from hazardous chemicals and air, ▯ Strategy and growth p. 10, 17 Development Goals (SDGs). Using our own methodology water, and soil pollution and contamination ▯ Value chain and products p. 33 ▯ The environment p. 49, 52, 56 (see chapter “Strategy and growth” p. 17), we have 3.c: Substantially increase health financing and the recruitment, development, training, and retention of identified the four SDGs that are especially relevant for the health workforce in developing countries, especially in least developed countries and small island Evonik. An SDG is relevant for us if there is a significant developing states ▯ Employees p. 61, 68 positive or negative influence on or by Evonik. Our pro3.d: Strengthen the capacity of all countries, in particular developing countries, for early warning, ▯ Employees p. 61, 69 ducts and solutions help to achieve the relevant SDGs. risk reduction, and management of national and global health risks ▯ Safety p. 72, 74, 75 We are always aware that our business activities can have SDG 6—Ensure availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation for all critical impacts in some cases. The most relevant SDGs for 6.3: By 2030, improve water quality by reducing pollution, eliminating dumping, and minimizing Evonik are: release of hazardous chemicals and materials, halving the proportion of untreated wastewater, and substantially increasing recycling and safe reuse globally ▯ The environment p. 49, 56 6.4: By 2030, substantially increase water-use efficiency across all sectors and ensure sustainable withdrawals and supply of freshwater to address water scarcity and substantially reduce the number of people suffering from water scarcity ▯ The environment p. 49, 56 6.6: By 2030, protect and restore water-related ecosystems, including mountains, forests, wetlands, rivers, aquifers, and lakes ▯ The environment p. 49, 59 SDG 12—Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns 12.2: By 2030, achieve the sustainable management and efficient use of natural resources ▯ Strategy and growth p. 10, 15 ▯ Value chain and products p. 33, 39, 43 ▯ The environment p. 49, 52, 56, 58 12.4: By 2020, achieve the environmentally sound management of chemicals and all wastes throughout their life cycle, in accordance with agreed international frameworks, and significantly reduce ▯ Strategy and growth p. 10, 12 their release to air, water, and soil in order to minimize their adverse impacts on human health and ▯ Value chain and products p. 33, 45 the environment ▯ The environment p. 49, 52, 56, 58 12.5: By 2030, substantially reduce waste generation through prevention, reduction, recycling, and reuse ▯ Value chain and products p. 33, 42 ▯ The environment p. 49, 58 12.6: Encourage companies, especially large and transnational companies, to adopt sustainable practices ▯ Strategy and growth p. 10, 12, 14 and to integrate sustainability information into their reporting cycle ▯ Governance and compliance p. 25 ▯ Value chain and products p. 33, 43 SDG 13—Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts 13.1: Strengthen resilience and adaptive capacity to climate-related hazards and natural disasters in all countries ▯ Governance and compliance p. 24, 28 13.2: Integrate climate change measures into national policies, strategies, and planning ▯ Strategy and growth p. 10, 11 ▯ The environment p. 49, 52 13.3: Improve education, awareness-raising, and human and institutional capacity on climate change ▯ Strategy and growth p. 10, 11 mitigation, adaptation, impact reduction, and early warning ▯ The environment p. 49, 52 87 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EVONIK Basis of reporting GRI content index GRI content index including the ten principles GRI content index and UN Global Compact progress report T32 of the UN Global Compact (UNGC) and the Relevant UNGC 17 UN Sustainable Development Goals 102-55 SDG Principle GRI standard Page a Omissions General Disclosures The following GRI content index is based on the topics of material relevance to Evonik and therefore on GRI 101: Foundation 2016 the structure of the chapters in this report. The aim is to enhance readability and ensure that topics can GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 be located easily. In the description of the management approaches, we have also increased the focus on Organizational profile topics of relevance to us. Consequently, the GRI indicators are not necessarily presented in ascending order. GRI 102-1 Name of the organization 82, 102 Instead, they are presented on the basis of our areas of action: strategy and growth, governance and com7 GRI 102-2 Activities, brands, products, 8, 45 pliance (including an additional management approach on human rights), value chain and products, the and services environment, employees, and safety. This report has been prepared in accordance with GRI Standards 2016, GRI 102-3 Location of headquarters 102 core option, except where otherwise indicated. For the Materiality Disclosures Service, GRI Services reviewed that the GRI content index is clearly presented and the references for disclosures 102-40 to 102-49 align GRI 102-4 Location of operations 82, 99, (30) with the appropriate sections of the report. For the first time, we have mapped the 17 UN Sustainable GRI 102-5 Ownership and legal form 6, 102 Development Goals to the GRI indicators. This was additionally reviewed by GRI Services for the SDG GRI 102-6 Markets served 43, (14) Mapping Service. Both GRI Services were performed on the German version of this report. GRI 102-7 Scale of the organization 6, (U2) 8 6 GRI 102-8 Information on employees 15, 65, 66, 67, 82 and other workers GRI 102-9 Supply chain 34 GRI 102-10 Significant changes to the 34, 82 organization and its supply chain GRI 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach 25, 28 GRI 102-12 External initiatives 25, 27 GRI 102-13 Membership of associations 25, 45 Strategy GRI 101 GRI 102 GRI 200 GRI 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 5, 34, 81 Foundation General disclosures Economic 2016 2016 performance 2016 GRI 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 13, 14, 28, 34, 81 (53) Ethics and integrity Basis for using the Contextual information GRI 300 GRI standards about the company Ecological 16 10 GRI 102-16 Values, principles, standards, 25, 28, 34 performance 2016 and norms of behavior 16 GRI 102-17 Mechanisms for advice 28, 29, 30, 31 GRI 103 GRI 400 and concerns about ethics Management Social performance approach 2016 2016 Governance GRI 102-18 Governance structure 12, 27 The management approach Selection of specific used for each material topic information on GRI 102-19 Delegating authority 12 each material topic a Page no. in sustainability report (page no. in financial report)/Further information. 88 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EVONIK Basis of reporting GRI content index Relevant UNGC Relevant UNGC SDG Principle GRI standard Page a Omissions SDG Principle GRI standard Page a Omissions GRI 102-20 Executive-level responsibility 12, 27 GRI 102-38 Annual total compensation ratio In accordance with the for economic, environmental, recommendations of and social topics the German Corporate 16 GRI 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, 18, 27 Governance Code, the environmental, and social topics supervisory board commissions a remuneration 5, 16 GRI 102-22 Composition of the highest 12, 27, (67) report (vertical com­pari­ governance body and its committees son) to review the ratio 16 GRI 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body 27, (67) of remuneration of the executive board to that 5, 16 GRI 102-24 Nominating and selecting 27, (67) of senior executives and the highest governance body Evonik’s workforce. The 16 GRI 102-25 Conflicts of interest 27, 32, (67), (77) results are con­fidential and are not published. GRI 102-26 Role of highest governance body in (67) b setting purpose, values, and strategy GRI 102-39 Percentage increase in annual See comment on total compensation ratio GRI 102-38 4 GRI 102-27 Collective knowledge 27, 32 b, (81) of highest governance body Stakeholder engagement GRI 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance 27, (67), (86) GRI 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 18, 19, 21 body’s performance 8 3 GRI 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 64, 65, 66 16 GRI 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, 12, 18, (74), (77) GRI 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 18, 19, 21 environmental, and social impacts GRI 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 18, 19, 20, 21, 64, 66, 73 GRI 102-30 Effectiveness of 28, (53), (74) risk management processes GRI 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 18, 20, 21, 43 GRI 102-31 Review of economic, 28, (53), (74) Reporting practice environmental, and social topics GRI 102-45 Entities included in the 83 GRI 102-32 Highest governance body’s role 5, 12 consolidated financial statements in sustainability reporting GRI 102-46 Defining report content 21, 22, 23, 83 GRI 102-33 Communicating critical concerns 18, 29 and topic boundaries GRI 102-34 Nature and total number 31 GRI 102-47 List of material topics 19, 21, 22, 23 of critical concerns GRI 102-48 Restatements of information 18, 21, 82, 83 GRI 102-35 Remuneration policies 28, 64, (86) GRI 102-49 Changes in reporting 21, 82, 83 16 GRI 102-36 Process for determining remuneration 28, 64, (86) GRI 102-50 Reporting period 82 GRI 102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement 28, 64, (74) GRI 102-51 Date of most recent report 82, 102 in remuneration GRI 102-52 Reporting cycle 82 GRI 102-53 Contact point for questions 102 regarding the report a Page no. in sustainability report (page no. in financial report)/Further information. b www.evonik.com/nonfinancial-report 89 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EVONIK Basis of reporting GRI content index Relevant UNGC Relevant UNGC SDG Principle GRI standard Page a Omissions SDG Principle GRI standard Page a Omissions GRI 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance 84, 87 1, 5, 8 6 GRI 202-1 Ratios of standard entry level wage 64 with the GRI Standards by gender compared to Evonik believes it is very GRI 102-55 GRI content index 87 local minimum wage important to offer market-­ oriented and performance-­ GRI 102-56 External assurance 82 related salaries based on uniform global evaluation Topic-specific Disclosures criteria. Evonik pays at Strategy and growth least the local mini­mum GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016 wage worldwide, regardless of gender. GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 8 GRI 202-2 Proportion of senior management 66 7, 8, 9 GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 11, 13, 15, 18, 21, 23 hired from the local community We report on external hires and its boundary by region, not by function. 1, 5, 8, 16 GRI 103-2 The management approach 4, 8, 12, 15, 18 , 21, 23, 25, GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts 2016 and its components 31, 32, 80, 81 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the 4, 11, 18, 21, 29, 31, 80, 81, management approach 82 7, 8, 9 GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 11, 13, 15, 18, 21, 23 and its boundary 2, 5, 7, 8, GRI 201-1 Direct economic value 8, 80 9 generated and distributed 1, 5, 8, 16 GRI 103-2 The management approach 4, 11, 12, 15, 21, 23, 25, 31, and its components 32, 80, 81 13 7 GRI 201-2 Financial implications and 15, 28, (53), (61) other risks and opportunities GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 4, 18, 21, 29, 31, 80, 81, 82 due to climate change 2, 5, 7, GRI 203-1 Infrastructure investments 13, 15 GRI 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations 64, (86), (88) 9, 11 and services supported and other retirement plans 1, 2, 3, 8, GRI 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts 13, 15, (30) GRI 201-4 Financial assistance received 37 10, 17 from government We only report on finanGovernance and compliance cial assistance received from the EU or Germany GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016 for research purposes. GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 GRI 202: Market Presence 2016 GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 11, 13, 15, 18, 21, 23 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 and its boundary GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 11, 13, 15, 18, 1, 5, 8, 16 GRI 103-2 The management approach 4, 11, 12, 15, 21, 23, 25, 31, and its boundary 21, 23 and its components 32, 34, 80, 81 1, 5, 8, 16 GRI 103-2 The management approach 4, 11, 12, 15, 21, 23, 25, 26, GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the 4, 18, 21, 29, 31, 80, 81, 82 and its components 27, 31, 62, 64, 66, 71, 80, management approach 81 10 GRI 205-1 Operations assessed for risks 25, 28, 29, 30 GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the 4, 18, 21, 29, 31, 64, 80, related to corruption Through our compliance management approach 81, 82 systems, we examine all sites, not just individual business and training locations, for the risk of corruption and ensure regular risk-based training of all relevant employees. a Page no. in sustainability report (page no. in financial report)/Further information. 90 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EVONIK Basis of reporting GRI content index Relevant UNGC Relevant UNGC SDG Principle GRI standard Page a Omissions SDG Principle GRI standard Page a Omissions GRI 205-2 Communication and training 30 8 3 GRI 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the 26, 29, 31, 35, 36, 66 about anti-corruption policies We do not provide a right to freedom of association and At present, this is only and procedures breakdown of training collective bargaining may be at risk assessed at country level. data for top management Our supplier evaluation by regions and do not is based on compiling/ report explicitly on trainquantifying risk factors. ing of business partners. Our eval­uation includes GRI 205-3 Confirmed incidents of 31 the threats to freedom of corruption and actions taken association and collective bargaining. GRI 206: Anti-Competitive Behavior 2016 GRI 408: Child Labor 2016 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 11, 13, 15, 18, 21, 23 and its boundary GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 11, 13, 15, 18, 21, 23 and its boundary 1, 5, 8, 16 GRI 103-2 The management approach 4, 11, 12, 15, 21, 23, 25, 31, and its components 32, 34, 80, 81 1, 5, 8, 16 GRI 103-2 The management approach 4, 11, 12, 15, 21, 23, 25, 26, and its components 31, 34, 66, 80, 81 GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the 4, 18, 21, 29, 31, 80, 81, 82 management approach GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the 4, 18, 21, 29, 31, 34, 80, management approach 81, 82 GRI 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive 31 behavior, anti-trust, and 8 5 GRI 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant 26, 29, 31, 35, 36, 66 monopoly practices risk for incidents of child labor At present, this is only assessed at country level. GRI 406: Non-discrimination 2016 Our supplier evaluation i GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 s based on compiling/ quantifying risk factors. GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 11, 13, 15, 18, 21, 23 Our eval­uation includes and its boundary the risk of child labor. 1, 5, 8, 16 GRI 103-2 The management approach 4, 11, 12, 15, 21, 23, 25, 26, GRI 409: Forced or Compulsory Labor 2016 and its components 31, 34, 66, 80, 81 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the 4, 18, 21, 29, 31, 68, 80, management approach 81, 82 GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 11, 13, 15, 18, 21, 23 and its boundary 5, 8, 16 6 GRI 406-1 Incidents of discrimination 68 and corrective actions taken 1, 5, 8, 16 GRI 103-2 The management approach 4, 11, 12, 15, 21, 23, 25, 26, and its components 31, 34, 66, 80, 81 GRI 407: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 2016 GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the 4, 18, 21, 29, 31, 34, 80, GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 management approach 81, 82 GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 11, 13, 15, 18, 21, 23 and its boundary 1, 5, 8, 16 GRI 103-2 The management approach 4, 11, 12, 15, 21, 23, 25, 26, and its components 31, 34, 66, 80, 81 GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the 4, 18, 21, 26, management approach 29, 31, 34, 80, 81, 82 a Page no. in sustainability report (page no. in financial report)/Further information. 91 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EVONIK Basis of reporting GRI content index Relevant UNGC Relevant UNGC SDG Principle GRI standard Page a Omissions SDG Principle GRI standard Page a Omissions 8 4 GRI 409-1 Operations and suppliers at 26, 29, 31, 35, 36, 66 GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the 4, 18, 21, 29, 31, 80, 81, 82 significant risk for incidents At present, this is only management approach of forced or compulsory labor assessed at country level. GRI 415-1 Political contributions 32 Our supplier evaluation Evonik does not make is based on compiling/ any donations to political quantifying risk factors. parties outside Germany. Our eval­uation includes the risk of forced or com­ GRI 418: Customer Privacy 2016 pulsory labor. GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment 2016 GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 11, 13, 15, 18, 21, 23 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 and its boundary GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 11, 13, 15, 18, 21, 23 1, 5, 8, 16 GRI 103-2 The management approach 4, 11, 12, 15, 21, 23, 25, 31, and its boundary and its components 32, 80, 81 1, 5, 8, 16 GRI 103-2 The management approach 4, 11, 12, 15, 21, 23, 25, 26, GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the 4, 18, 21, 29, 31, 32, 80, and its components 31, 34, 66, 80, 81 management approach 81, 82 GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the 4, 18, 21, 29, 31, 34, 80, 16 GRI 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning 31, 32, (53), (75) management approach 81, 82 breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data 1 GRI 412-1 Operations that have been subject 26, 30 to human rights reviews or Ongoing development of GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance 2016 impact assessments our human rights risk map GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 at country level, using the GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 11, 13, 15, 18, 21, 23 MVO Netherlands’ CSR and its boundary Risk Check. 1, 5, 8, 16 GRI 103-2 The management approach 4, 11, 12, 15, 21, 23, 25, 31, GRI 412-2 Employee training on human rights 26, 30 and its components 32, 80, 81 policies or procedures Human rights are an integral part of com­pliance GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the 4, 18, 21, 29, 31, 80, 81, 82 training on our code of management approach conduct, which is com­ GRI 419-1 Non-compliance with laws 28, 31, 32 , (53), (75) pulsory for all employees. and regulations in the social and In countries where the economic area potential human rights risk is elevated, training is Value chain and products ­conducted, especially at GRI 204: Procurement Practices 2016 management level. GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 GRI 415: Public Policy 2016 GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 11, 13, 15, 18, 21, 23 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 and its boundary GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 11, 13, 15, 18, 1, 5, 8, 16 GRI 103-2 The management approach 4, 11, 12, 15, 21, 23, 25, 26, and its boundary 21, 23 and its components 31, 34, 35, 80, 81 1, 5, 8, 16 GRI 103-2 The management approach 4, 11, 12, 15, 21, 23, 25, 31, GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the 4, 18, 21, 29, 31, 34, 35, and its components 32, 80, 81 management approach 36, 80, 81, 82 12 GRI 204-1 Proportion of spending on 36 local suppliers All locations and the total procurement value are a taken into account. Page no. in sustainability report (page no. in financial report)/Further information. 92 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EVONIK Basis of reporting GRI content index Relevant UNGC Relevant UNGC SDG Principle GRI standard Page a Omissions SDG Principle GRI standard Page a Omissions GRI 301: Materials 2016 GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety 2016 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 11, 13, 15, 18, 21, 23 GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 11, 13, 15, 18, 21, 23 and its boundary and its boundary 1, 5, 8, 16 GRI 103-2 The management approach 4, 11, 12, 15, 21, 23, 25, 31, 1, 5, 8, 16 GRI 103-2 The management approach 4, 11, 12, 15, 21, 23, 25, 31, and its components 34, 39, 80, 81 and its components 45, 80, 81 GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the 4, 18, 21, 29, GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the 4, 18, 21, 29, 31, 45, 80, management approach 31, 34, 39, 80, 81, 82 management approach 81, 82 8, 12 7, 8 GRI 301-1 Reclaimed products and their 40 GRI 416-1 Assessment of the health 45 packaging materials and safety impacts of product Our assessments focus on GRI 301-3 Reclaimed products and their 40 and service categories products, not services. packaging materials We intend to provide GRI 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance 45, (53), (75) quantitative data in concerning the health and safety We do not report on the the future. impacts of products and services number of incidents of GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment 2016 non-compliance with regulations and voluntary GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 codes of conduct relating GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 11, 13, 15, 18, 21, 23 to the health and safety and its boundary impact of products and services. Any incidents 1, 5, 8, 16 GRI 103-2 The management approach 4, 11, 12, 15, 21, 23, 25, 31, and legal proceedings are and its components 34, 35, 36, 80, 81 outlined in the financial GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the 4, 18, 21, 29, 31, 34, 35, report in the section on management approach 36, 80, 81, 82 legal/compliance oppor­ 8 GRI 308-1 New suppliers that were screened 35, 37 tunities and risks. using environmental criteria All new suppliers are GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling 2016 screened. GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 GRI 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in 36, 37 GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 11, 13, 15, 18, 21, 23 the supply chain and actions taken and its boundary GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 2016 1, 5, 8, 16 GRI 103-2 The management approach 4, 11, 12, 15, 21, 23, 25, 31, GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 and its components 45, 80, 81 GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 11, 13, 15, 18, 21, 23 GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the 4, 18, 21, 29, 31, 45, 80, and its boundary management approach 81, 82 1, 5, 8, 16 GRI 103-2 The management approach 4, 11, 12, 15, 21, 23, 25, 26, 12 GRI 417-1 Requirements for product and 45 and its components 31, 34, 35, 36, 80, 81 service information and labeling As a matter of principle, GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the 4, 18, 21, 29, 31, 34, 35, for all products we check management approach 36, 80, 81, 82 compliance with laws and regulations. 5, 8, 16 GRI 414-1 New suppliers that were screened 35, 37 using social criteria All new suppliers are screened. 5, 8, 16 GRI 414-2 Negative social impacts in the 35, 37 supply chain and actions taken a Page no. in sustainability report (page no. in financial report)/Further information. 93 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EVONIK Basis of reporting GRI content index Relevant UNGC Relevant UNGC SDG Principle GRI standard Page a Omissions SDG Principle GRI standard Page a Omissions GRI 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance 45, (53), (75) 6 7, 8 GRI 303-1 Interactions with water 14, 15, 34, 50, 56, 59, 82 concerning product and There were no violations as a shared resource service information and labeling of product labeling 6 GRI303-2 Management of water 50, 56, 59, 82 requirements in the discharge-related impacts reporting period. 6, 8, 12 8 GRI 303-3 Water withdrawal 56, 57, 82 The environment Data are not available for GRI 302: Energy 2016 points b, c, and d. The aim GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 of our water stress analysis is to develop site-specific GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 11, 13, 15, 18, 21, 23 action plans (including and its boundary extended data availability) 1, 5, 8, 16 GRI 103-2 The management approach 4, 11, 12, 15, 21, 23, 25, 31, as part of our global water and its components 50, 52, 80, 81 management in the future for sites with potential 12, 13 GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the 4, 18, 21, 29, 31, 50, 52, exposure to water stress. management approach 80, 81, 82 6 GRI 303-4 Water discharge 56, 57, 82 Data are not 7, 7, 8 GRI 302-1 Energy consumption 52, 82 available for 8, 12, 13 within the organization We do not report sepapoints b, c, and e. rately on the consumption and sale of energy for 303-3 heating and cooling. 6 GRI 303-5 Water consumption 56, 57, 82 Data are not They are included in the available for reported data. points b, c, and e. 7, 8, 13 8, 9 GRI 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 52, 82 303-3 We constantly strive GRI 304: Biodiversity 2016 to make the provision of energy more efficient, and GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 optimize the structure GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 11, 13, 15, 18, 21, 23 of our integrated energy and its boundary and management systems. Nevertheless, our focus 1, 5, 8, 16 GRI 103-2 The management approach 4, 11, 12, 15, 21, 23, 25, 31, is on avoiding GHG and its components 50, 59, 80, 81 emissions; this is underGRI 103-3 Evaluation of the 4, 18, 21, 29, 31, 50, 59, pinned by a target. management approach 80, 81, 82 GRI 303: Water and Effluents 2018 6, 14, 15 GRI 304-1 Operational sites owned, leased, 59 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 11, 13, 15, 18, 21, 23 value outside protected areas and its boundary GRI 305: Emissions 2016 GRI 103-2 The management approach 4, 11, 12, 15, 21, 23, 25, 31, and its components 50, 52, 80, 81 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the 4, 18, 21, 29, GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 11, 13, 15, 18, 21, 23 management approach 31, 50, 56, 80, 81, 82 and its boundary a Page no. in sustainability report (page no. in financial report)/Further information. 94 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EVONIK Basis of reporting GRI content index Relevant UNGC Relevant UNGC SDG Principle GRI standard Page a Omissions SDG Principle GRI standard Page a Omissions 1, 5, 8, 16 GRI 103-2 The management approach 4, 18, 21, 29, 31, 50, 52, GRI 307: Environmental Compliance 2016 and its components 80, 81, 82 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 12, 13, 14, GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the 4, 18, 21, 29, 31, 50, 52, GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 11, 13, 15, 18, 21, 23 15 management approach 80, 81, 82 and its boundary 3, 12, 13, 7, 8 GRI 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 50, 52, 54, 82 1, 5, 8, 16 GRI 103-2 The management approach 4, 18, 21, 29, 31, 50, 80, 14, 15 We do not report bioand its components 81, 82 genic CO2 emissions ­separately in metric 12, 13, 14, GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the 4, 18, 21, 29, 31, 50, 80, tons CO2 equivalents. 15 management approach 81, 82 3, 12, 13, GRI 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) 50, 52, 54, 82 8 GRI 307-1 Non-compliance with 31, (75) 14, 15 GHG emissions environmental laws and regulations No significant fines exceeding €100,000, and 3, 12, 13, GRI 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) 50, 52, 54, 82 no non-monetary penal14, 15 GHG emissions We do not report bioties were imposed on genic CO2 emissions Evonik in 2019 for failure ­separately in metric to comply with laws or tons CO2 equivalents. regulations. 13, 14, 15 8 GRI 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 50, 52, 54, 82 Employees 13, 14, 15 8, 9 GRI 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 50, 52, 54, 55, 82 GRI 401: Employment 2016 Further information on CO2 avoidance can be GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 found in the brochure GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 11, 13, 15, 18, 21, 23 Evonik Carbon Footprint and its boundary 2018. 1, 5, 8, 16 GRI 103-2 The management approach 4, 11, 12, 15, 21, 23, 25, 26, 3, 13 7, 8 GRI 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting 50, 52, 56, 82 and its components 31, 80, 81 substances (ODS) GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the 4, 18, 21, 29, 31, 62, 80, 3, 13, GRI 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOx), 50, 52, 56, 82 management approach 81, 82 14, 15 sulfur oxides (SOx), and other 6 GRI 401-1 New employee hires and 64, 67 significant air emissions employee turnover GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016 8 GRI 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time 64, 65, 69 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 employees that are not provided to As a rule, part-time GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 11, 13, 15, 18, 21, 23 temporary or part-time employees employees also benefit and its boundary from our performanceand profit-oriented 1, 5, 8, 16 GRI 103-2 The management approach 4, 18, 21, 29, 31, 50, 58, ­incentive systems and our and its components 80, 81, 82, 97 voluntary social benefits, 12, 13, 14, GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the 4, 18, 21, 29, provided that they meet 15 management approach 31, 50, 58, 80, 81, 82 the minimum working hours prescribed in some 3, 6, 12 GRI 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 58, 82 regions. 3, GRI 306-3 Significant spills 74, 82 5, 8 GRI 401-3 Parental leave 65 6, 12, 14, 15 a Page no. in sustainability report (page no. in financial report)/Further information. 95 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EVONIK Basis of reporting GRI content index Relevant UNGC Relevant UNGC SDG Principle GRI standard Page a Omissions SDG Principle GRI standard Page a Omissions GRI 402: Labor/Management Relations 2016 GRI 403-7 Prevention and mitigation GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 of occupational health and safety impacts directly linked by GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 11, 13, 15, 18, 21, 23 business relationships and its boundary GRI 403-8 Workers covered by an 69, 73 We only report 1, 5, 8, 16 GRI 103-2 The management approach 4, 11, 12, 15, 21, 23, 25, 31, occupational health and safety coverage by and its components 80, 81 management system percent. Points b GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the 4, 18, 21, 29, 31, 62, 80, and c are omitted management approach 81, 82 because they are not relevant. 8 3 GRI 402-1 Minimum notice periods 66 regarding operational changes GRI 403-9 Work-related injuries 96 Presented in the GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2018 chapter on safety GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 GRI 403-10 Work-related ill health 69, 70, 73 GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 11, 13, 15, 18, 21, 23 GRI 404: Training and Education 2016 and its boundary GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 1, 5, 8, 16 GRI 103-2 The management approach 4, 11, 12, 15, 21, 23, 25, 31, and its components 80, 81 GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 11, 13, 15, 18, 21, 23 and its boundary GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the 4, 18, 21, 29, 31, 62, 80, management approach 81, 82 1, 5, 8, 16 GRI 103-2 The management approach 4, 11, 12, 15, 21, 23, 25, 31, and its components 80, 81 8 GRI 403-1 Occupational health and 69, 73 safety management system GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the 4, 18, 21, 29, 31, 62, 80, management approach 81, 82 3, 8 GRI 403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, 28, 29, 69, 70, 73 and incident investigation 4, 5, 8 6 GRI 404-1 Average hours of training per year 69 per employee Drawing a distinction GRI 403-3 Occupational health services 69 by gender or employee GRI 403-4 Worker participation, consultation, 69, 73 category is not significant and communication on for us; employees have occupational health and safety access to the global develGRI 403-5 Worker training on occupational 69, 70, 73 opment portal (GDP) and health and safety LILY. GRI 403-6 Promotion of worker health 70 a Page no. in sustainability report (page no. in financial report)/Further information. 96 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EVONIK Basis of reporting GRI content index Relevant UNGC Relevant UNGC SDG Principle GRI standard Page a Omissions SDG Principle GRI standard Page a Omissions 8 GRI 404-2 Programs for upgrading 69 5, 8 6 GRI 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies 27, 67 employee skills and transition Our generation pact and employees We do not provide a assistance programs was extended to actively ­percentage breakdown address the challenges of members of our goverof demographic change. nance bodies by age. Take-up was once again The diversity concept and high. The GDP is available competency profile for the to all employees worldsupervisory board and the wide and should ensure executive board contain full transparency about various criteria, including learning offerings, conage. The age structure tacts, and costs. in the Evonik Group is 5, 8 GRI 404-3 Percentage of employees 64 not explicitly reported by receiving regular performance employee category. and career development reviews Safety GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016 GRI 403 b: Occupational Health 2018 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 11, 13, 15, 18, 21, 23 GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 11, 13, 15, 18, 21, 23 and its boundary and its boundary 1, 5, 8, 16 GRI 103-2 The management approach 4, 11, 12, 15, 21, 23, 25, 31, 1, 5, 8, 16 GRI 103-2 The management approach 4, 11, 12, 15, 21, 23, 25, 31, and its components 80, 81 and its components 50, 73, 75, 80, 81 GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the 4, 18, 21, 27, 29, 31, 62, GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the 4, 18, 21, 29, 31, 69, 73, management approach 66, 80, 81, 82 management approach 74, 80, 81, 82 GRI 403-9 Work-related injuries We only report accident frequency and, where applicable, the number of fatalities for employees and contractors’ employees but not the types of injury. a Page no. in sustainability report (page no. in financial report)/Further information. b You can find further information on GRI 403 in the employees area of action, see p. 95. 97 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EVONIK Basis of reporting Independent Practitioner’s Limited Assurance Report Independent Practitioner’s Independence and Quality Control of the Audit Firm nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that Limited Assurance Report We have complied with the German professional provisions the chapters and sections denoted with with the exception of regarding independence as well as other ethical requirements. disclosures marked as “non-audited” in the Company’s Report for 102-56 the period from 01 January 2019 to 31 December 2019 has not Our audit firm applies the national legal requirements and profes­ been prepared, in all material aspects, in accordance with the relIndependent Practitioner’s Report on a sional standards – in particular the Professional Code for ­German evant GRI-Criteria. This does not mean that a separate concluLimited Assurance Engagement on Public Auditors and German Chartered Auditors (“Berufssatzung sion is expressed on each chapter so denoted. Sustainability Information 1 für Wirtschaftsprüfer und vereidigte Buchprüfer“: “BS WP/vBP”) as well as the Standard on Quality Control 1 published by the InstiIn a limited assurance engagement the assurance procedures To the Evonik Industries AG, Essen tut der Wirtschaftsprüfer (Institute of Public Auditors in Germany; are less in extent than for a reasonable assurance engagement We have performed a limited assurance engagement on the IDW): Requirements to quality control for audit firms (IDW and therefore a substantially lower level of assurance is obtained. chapters denoted with with the exception of disclosures Qualitätssicherungsstandard 1: Anforderungen an die QualitätsThe assurance procedures selected depend on the practitioner’s marked as “non-audited” in the sustainability report of Evonik sicherung in der Wirtschaftsprüferpraxis IDW QS 1) – and judgment. Industries AG, Essen (hereinafter: “the Company”), for the accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality control period from 01 January 2019 to 31 December 2019 (hereinafter: including documented policies and procedures regarding com­ Within the scope of our assurance engagement, we performed “Report”). Our engagement in this context relates solely to the pliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and amongst others the following assurance procedures and further chapters and sections denoted with the symbol with the applicable legal and regulatory requirements. activities: exception of disclosures marked as “non-audited”. Practitioner’s Responsibility • Obtaining an understanding of the structure of the sustaina­ Responsibilities of the Executive Directors Our responsibility is to express a limited assurance conclusion on bility organization and of the stakeholder engagement The executive directors of the Company are responsible for the the chapters denoted with with the exception of disclosures • Inquiries of personnel involved in the preparation of the Report preparation of the Report in accordance with the principles stated marked as “non-audited” in the Report based on the assurance regarding the preparation process, the internal control system in the Sustainability Reporting Standards of the Global Reporting engagement we have performed. relating to this process and selected disclosures in the Report Initiative (hereinafter: “GRI-Criteria”) and for the selection of the • Identification of the likely risks of material misstatement of the disclosures to be evaluated. Within the scope of our engagement we did not perform an audit Report under consideration of the GRI-Criteria on external sources of information or expert opinions, referred to • Analytical evaluation of selected disclosures in the Report This responsibility of Company’s executive directors includes the in the Report. • Performance of site visits or web conferences as part of the selection and application of appropriate methods of sustainability inspection of processes and guidelines for data collection at the reporting as well as making assumptions and estimates related to We conducted our assurance engagement in accordance with the following locations Marl (Germany), Rheinfelden (Germany), individual sustainability disclosures, which are reasonable in the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 Antwerp (Belgium). circumstances. Furthermore, the executive directors are respon(Revised): Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews • Comparison of selected disclosures with corresponding data in sible for such internal control as they have considered necessary of Historical Financial Information, issued by the IAASB. This the consolidated financial statements and in the group manageto enable the preparation of a Report that is free from material Standard requires that we plan and perform the assurance ment report misstatement whether due to fraud or error. engagement to allow us to conclude with limited assurance that • Evaluation of the presentation of the selected disclosures regarding sustainability performance 1 PricewaterhouseCoopers GmbH has performed a limited assurance engagement on the German version of the sustainability report and issued an independent assurance report in German, which is authoritative. The following text is a translation of the independent assurance report. 98 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EVONIK Basis of reporting Independent Practitioner’s Limited Assurance Report Assurance Conclusion Based on the assurance procedures performed and assurance ­evidence obtained, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the chapters and sections denoted with with the exception of disclosures marked as “non-audited” in the Company’s Report for the period from 01 January 2019 to 31 December 2019 have not been prepared, in all material aspects, in accordance with the relevant GRI-Criteria. Intended Use of the Assurance Report We issue this report on the basis of the engagement agreed with the Company. The assurance engagement has been performed for purposes of the Company and the report is solely intended to inform the Company as to the results of the assurance engagement. The report is not intended to provide third parties with support in making (financial) decisions. Our responsibility lies solely toward the Company. We do not assume any responsibility towards third parties. Munich, February 20, 2020 PricewaterhouseCoopers GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft Hendrik Fink ppa. Pia Schnück Wirtschaftsprüfer (German Public Auditor) 99 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EVONIK Further Information Principal locations Principal locations Principal locations a  T33 No. of employees 2017 2018 b 2019 b No. of employees 2017 2018 b 2019 b Western Europe Central & South America Marl Germany 7,018 7,033 7,111 São Paulo Brazil 221 199 196 Hanau Germany 3,398 3,218 3,185 Americana Brazil 111 125 119 Essen Germany 1,666 1,716 1,802 Castro – Parana Brazil 110 108 103 Darmstadt Germany 1,728 1,311 1,312 San José Costa Rica 87 89 86 Rheinfelden Germany 1,174 1,153 1,157 Barra do Riacho Brazil 42 48 48 Eastern Europe Middle East & Africa Slovenská L´upča Slovakia 238 232 225 Umbogintwini South Africa 30 32 39 Arifiye Turkey 0 0 109 Midrand South Africa 52 44 34 Istanbul Turkey 142 149 69 Dubai United Arab Emirates 25 21 22 Moscow Russian Federation 61 57 59 Teheran Iran 27 24 21 Warsaw Poland 14 14 13 Cairo Egypt 15 17 18 Asia-Pacific North As of December 31 of the respective year. Shanghai Xingzhuang China 753 711 718 a The list covers around 65 percent of Evonik employees. b Continuing operations only (excluding the methacrylates business). Shanghai MUSC China 716 419 422 Nanping China 373 364 342 Nanning China 355 344 337 Taoyuan Taiwan 161 167 163 Asia-Pacific South Singapore Singapore 597 660 652 Dombivli India 280 283 276 Selangor Malaysia 107 153 183 Mumbai India 146 140 146 Gajraula India 101 100 101 North America Mobile Alabama, USA 845 829 818 Lafayette Indiana, USA 633 618 629 Parsippany New Jersey, USA 429 308 302 Allentown Pennsylvania, USA 211 231 235 Birmingham Alabama, USA 153 160 166 100 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EVONIK Further Information Ratings and indices 2019 | Sustainability awards Ratings and indices 2019 Sustainability awards MSCI once again included Evonik in its Evonik is a member of the FTSE4Good In the regional Responsible Care® competition World ESG Leaders Index and the Socially index. This index family of the London-based in 2019, VCI Hessen, the Hesse section of the Responsible Index Europe. MSCI is a FTSE Group rates companies in categories German chemical industry association, awarded US financial services company that mainly such as environmental management, human Evonik second place for its innovative approach provides services for investment banking. and labor rights, health and safety, sustainto the evaluation of geodata. In addition to international equity indices, its ability in the supply chain, and corporate services include portfolio and risk analyses governance. and research. Evonik was included in the renowned Dow Evonik is listed in the STOXX® Global Evonik received the Sustainability Award 2019 Jones Sustainability Index Europe for the ESG Leaders Index. This index, which was for its continuous contribution to sustainability third time in succession. The best 20 percent launched by Deutsche Börse among others, of the product and project pipeline at Henkel of the 600 largest European companies on lists the best 25 percent of sustainable Adhesive Technologies. the Dow Jones Global Index are selected companies in the investment universe on for inclusion. transparency in environmental, social, and governance performance. Evonik’s sustainability performance again In the Euronext index family, which evaluates The League of American Communications received a B – rating from ISS-oekom. corporate ESG performance, Evonik was Professionals (LACP) honored Evonik with The company therefore has Prime Status, once again included in the Europe 120 and the Vision Award in gold for its sustainability the highest level awarded, ranking it Eurozone 120 indices. The evaluation is report 2018. The jury awarded us 98 out among the top 10 percent of companies based on up to 330 indicators covering of 100 points. in the chemical sector. 38 sustainability criteria. Evonik received a grade of B from CDP for As a founding member of the Together for Our sustainability report 2018 received reporting relevant data on climate protecSustainability (TfS) initiative, Evonik drives a bronze award at the ARC Awards in the tion (CDP Climate Change). For its water forward transparency and sustainability category PDF Version of Annual Report: reporting (CDP Water), it was also awarded in the supply chain and is subject to annual Sustainability Report: Americas & Europe. a grade of B. assessments. The EcoVadis rating agency, partner of TfS, awarded us a gold rating for our sustainability performance for the sixth time in succession. Evonik’s sustainability performance was also Sustainability experts at Belgium-based Evonik’s sustainability report 2018 won gold analyzed by the Sustainalytics rating agency. non-profit organization Forum Ethibel in the FOX Finance Awards and silver in the Evonik is among the top 10 percent of the found Evonik’s commitment convincing, FOX Visuals Awards. around 130 companies ranked in the chemiso the company was once again included cal sector. in the Ethibel® Sustainability Index (ESI) Excellence Europe. This Europe-wide index contains 200 companies. As of January 2020 101 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EVONIK Further Information List of tables and charts List of tables and charts Table Page Chart Page T01 Breakdown of value added 8 C01 Top 10 sustainability targets 3 T02 Uniform global training concept 29 C02 Shareholder structure 5 T03 Compliance training and training rate 30 C03 Responsibility—an integral part of our business for more than 140 years 6 T04 Internal investigations in 2019 31 C04 Corporate structure 7 T05 Supplier validation, assessments, and audits, including corrective action 37 C05 Sustainability governance structure at Evonik 12 T06 Trend in greenhouse gas savings over the life cycle of applications C06 Resources and value contributed in 2019 13 of the Evonik products sold in the specified year 43 C07 Impact of Evonik’s business activities 14 T07 Status of our environmental targets 51 C08 Monetary impact valuation of our business activities in 2018 15 T08 Environmental protection investment and operating costs 52 C09 Sustainability analysis of our business 16 T09 Energy inputs 52 C10 Stakeholder groups and their influence on Evonik 18 T10 Greenhouse gas emissions 54 C11 Stakeholder engagement in 2019 20 T11 Change in greenhouse gas emissions along Evonik’s value chain 55 C12 Materiality analysis 2019 21 T12 Evonik Carbon Footprint 55 C13 Areas of action and impact of Evonik’s business along the value chain 23 T13 Other emissions into the air 56 C14 Voluntary commitments 25 T14 Water intake by source 57 C15 House of Compliance 28 T15 Wastewater loads 58 C16 Compliance Management System (CMS) 29 T16 Waste 58 C17 Evonik’s procurement organization 34 T17 Waste management 59 C18 Supplier validation and evaluation 35 T18 Evonik production sites adjacent to conservation areas 59 C19 Audit escalation process 36 T19 Employees by contractual status and region 64 C20 Breakdown of R&D expenses 38 T20 Length of service 64 C21 Evonik’s water data 2019 57 T21 Employee turnover in 2019 64 C22 Age structure in the Evonik Group 67 T22 Personnel expense 65 C23 External hires by age 67 T23 Ability to take extended periods of leave 66 C24 External hires by gender 67 T24 Percentage of women in management 67 C25 External hires by region 68 T25 Outgoing shipments of hazardous goods 75 C26 Employees by region 68 T26 Outgoing shipments of other goods 75 C27 Occupational Health Performance Index 70 T27 Sustainability indicators 2019 80 C28 Framework of the safety culture 73 T28 Sustainability targets 2019 81 C29 Accident frequency indicator 74 T29 Date on the methacrylates business in our report 83 C30 Accident frequency indicator, contractors’ employees 74 T30 TCFD index 85 C31 Incident frequency indicator 75 T31 Targets for the SDGs of relevance for Evonik 86 C32 Donations and sponsorship 78 T32 GRI content index and UN Global Compact 87 T33 Principal locations 99 102 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EVONIK Further Information Credits Credits 102-56 Publisher Picture credits Evonik Industries AG Page 4 Bernd Brundert/Evonik Rellinghauser Strasse 1 – 11 Page 5 iStock Signature/mariusFM77 45128 Essen Page 5, 44 fotolia/Evonik Germany Page 5, 42 Dirk Bannert/Evonik www.evonik.com Page 5 CLOUD No. 7 GmbH Adobe Stock/Alexander Raths Contact Adobe Stock/Angelov Corporate Responsibility shutterstock/JIANG HONGYAN Head of Corporate Responsibility: Stefan Haver Adobe Stock/akr11_f stefan.haver@evonik.com Adobe Stock/TobiasW Page 6 Mark Ansorg/Evonik Corporate Responsibility Relations Page 10 Harald Reusmann/Evonik Hannelore Gantzer Page 19, 26 Anna-Lina Nikelowski/Evonik hannelore.gantzer@evonik.com Page 24 iStock Signature/courtneyk Kathrin-Maria Beermann Page 33 Karsten Bootmann/Evonik kathrin-maria.beermann@evonik.com Page 41 Adobe Stock/akademie Michaela Hauberg Page 47 shutterstock/Arildina/Evonik michaela.hauberg@evonik.com Page 49 iStock Signature/oversnap Page 53 Bernd Thissen/Evonik Consultant Page 61 fotolia/Robert Kneschke PB Consulting GmbH Page 72 iStock Signature/Charlie Chesvick Page 78 Reagen Manalese/Evonik Concept, design, and realization Page 79 Kerstin Neumann/Evonik HGB Hamburger Geschäftsberichte GmbH & Co. KG Page 5, 6, 9, 41, 44, 53, 62, 77 Evonik This report contains forward-looking statements based on the present expectations, assumptions, and forecasts made by the executive board and the information available to it. These forward-looking statements do not constitute a guarantee of future developments and earnings expectations. Future performance and developments depend on a wide variety of factors which contain a number of risks and unforeseeable factors and are based on assumptions that may prove incorrect. As of: February 18, 2020 EVONIK INDUSTRIES AG Rellinghauser Strasse 1 – 11 45128 Essen, Germany www.evonik.com
