2019 ZF Sustainability Report NEXT GENERATION MOBILITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2 ZF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GENERAL DISCLOSURES MATERIAL TOPICS: ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL ABOUT THE REPORT ABOUT THE REPORT This is the eighth edition of the ZF Sustainability Report published by ZF Friedrichshafen AG; it is based on the fiscal year 2019. The report is intended to offer transparency, with a particular focus on sustainability activities and objectives. It addresses customers, employees, suppliers, politicians, authorities and all other target groups that are interested in our company and wish to know about our values, principles and actions. At the same time, the ZF Sustainability Report represents our progress report to the United Nations Global Compact, which we joined in May 2012. The GRI Standards request companies to perform a materiality analysis which sets priorities in reporting and focuses on central elements of the performance indicators in the fields of economy, environment and society. Our latest materiality analysis was conducted in summer 2018 and is still valid. The process is described on page 19. The strategic objectives of our sustainability program correspond to the identified material topics of ZF. 3 ZF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GENERAL DISCLOSURES MATERIAL TOPICS: ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL CONTENTS CONTENTS 4 SUSTAINABILITY PROGRAM 9 GENERAL DISCLOSURES 21 MATERIAL TOPICS 10 Organizational Profile 22 ECONOMIC 29 ENVIRONMENT 39 SOCIAL 13 Strategy 22 Economic Performance 29 Materials 39 Employment 16 Governance 24 Indirect Economic Impacts 30 Energy 40 Labor/Management Relations 17 Stakeholder Engagement 25 Procurement Practices 33 Water 41 Occupational Health and Safety 19 Reporting Practice 26 Anti-corruption 34 Emissions 44 Training and Education 36 Effluents and Waste 46 Diversity and Equal Opportunity 38 Environmental Compliance 49 Non-discrimination 38 Supplier Environmental Assessment 49 Supplier Social Assessment These icons can be used within the Sustainability 50 Customer Health and Safety Report by clicking with the following functions: 52 IMPRINT Table of contents Print Internal references External references 4 ZF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GENERAL DISCLOSURES MATERIAL TOPICS: ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL ABOUT THE REPORT SUSTAINABILITY PROGRAM ZF Friedrichshafen AG has been reporting about its sustainability activities since 2012, the same year we have made our commitPROD UC TS  P R OD UC T I ON ment to the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact. By stepping up Sustainable product portfolio: our efforts over the years, we have continuGradually increasing the share of ously worked towards our contribution to revenue from sustainable products Emissions of plant operations: Reducing SDG sustainable development – encoded in the and services. 9 CO₂ emissions caused by plant operations. 17 United Nations Sustainable Development Product safety: Zero accidents Water: Saving water resources and supGoals (SDGs). and zero fatalities through smart SDG 12 porting clean water quality. product solutions and highest SDG With regard to our business activities, we have identified seven SGDs where we quality assurance. Material efficiency of products: 11 Waste: Supporting recycling management and reducing hazardousness of waste. can contribute the most – either through Reducing the use of raw materials minimizing our negative impacts or by and realizing a circular economy. developing solutions for positive change. SDG 17 SDG In 2020, for example, we announced our climate strategy with which we will halve our production-related emissions by 2030 13 Safety at work and health protection: compared to 2018 and produce climateWe strive to improve our safety perforneutral no later than 2040. mance by conducting professional Upstream and downstream emissions: incident management, Safety Leadership Slowing down climate change and working SDG 4 and Behavior Based Safety actions as well towards healthier environments. But we are nowhere near the end of our efas improving our functional safety areas. forts. Our entire industry still has a long way Standards in the supply chain: We aim for to go to meet the many environmental and SDG 8 Training and education: We aim to an implemented supply chain sustainability social challenges on the road to sustaincontinuously contribute to improve the management. able development. Due to the complexity organization, in order to achieve a global learning culture of innovative learning of these challenges, they cannot be solved and development. alone, but only in cooperation and partnership. We will therefore further analyze our impact on SDGs, strengthen our own sustainability efforts and, together with our EM PLOYEES  SUP P LY C H A I N partners, intensify the development of solutions for a viable future. 5 ZF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GENERAL DISCLOSURES MATERIAL TOPICS: ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL SUSTAINABILITY PROGRAM The ZF Sustainability Program follows the updated materiality analysis of 2018. Strategic objectives correspond to the identified material topics. We will regularly report and comment on how we are proceeding to achieve these targets, which projects and measures have already been implemented and what progress has been made. Strategic Objective Targets Actions/Status Products Product safety: Targeting zero accidents By 2021, ZF will develop an integrated concept for “Functional Safety” and A SOTIF process was integrated into the ZF safety process framework. and zero fatalities through smart product “Safety of the Intended Functionality” (SOTIF) to address emerging active Following ongoing ISO revisions, this new process will be updated, solutions and quality standards. safety technologies and automated driving independently reviewed by an external organization like TÜV as necessary and deployed. By 2022, ZF will align safety concepts across all segments and domains. ZF has released standardized safety training integrating experience from all divisions and is continuing to unify safety concepts from varied domains. ZF is tracking the development of Euro NCAP. By 2022, ZF will enable New target customers to meet the highest NCAP ratings in the 2025 roadmap. Regarding Product Safety, ZF continues its strategy of developing new safety ZF deployed product cybersecurity and integrated it with functional safety. systems and consistently improving product quality aimed at safety. ZF demonstrated a system to improve vehicle crash performance by dynamically shaping crumple zones before a crash. The system detects pre-crash conditions using external sensors. Significant reduction in occupant injury is predicted. ZF actively contributes to UNECE safety regulations for steering and braking systems. Upstream and downstream emissions: Vision Zero: Zero Emissions Projects: CeTrax (city buses; commercial vehicles); AxTrax (city buses); Slowing down climate change and workZF will continue to improve product efficiency and as a result reduce CO₂ EV plus (plug-in hybrid); ZF Marine “hybrid ready” transmission. ing towards healthier environments emissions. CO₂ reduction in tons in the course of the development of new products, using In the context of the ZF Climate Neutrality Strategy a comprehensive PCF carbon footprinting and life cycle assessments. strategy was developed, including specific responsibilities (CO₂ champions in divisional R&D). By 2020, the existing monitoring system will be extended to upstream and First screening of Scope 3 emissions completed; material categories were downstream emissions. identified for further improvement. Material efficiency of products: Reducing By the end of 2020, a strategy and targets will be developed to increase overAs part of the Product Carbon Footprint (PCF) strategy under development, the use of raw materials and realizing a all material efficiency of products. aspects of material efficiency were reviewed for improvement. circular economy Sustainable product portfolio: GraduBy 2020, a concept will be developed to align environmental compatibility of Development of the concept was on hold to be aligned with the ZF Climate ally increasing the share of revenue from our products with the new ZF Product Strategy Process. Neutrality Strategy. Development and rollout are planned for 2020. sustainable products and services 6 ZF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GENERAL DISCLOSURES MATERIAL TOPICS: ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL SUSTAINABILITY PROGRAM Strategic Objective Targets Actions/Status Supply chain Standards in the supply chain: We aim By 2020, a new initiative will be introduced worldwide to reduce the highest The concept to manage supply chain emissions with a focus on the highest supfor an implemented supply chain sustainCO₂-emitting supplies and suppliers within the product life cycle. plies and suppliers is in preparation under consideration of carbon footprint and ability management by 2025. customer requirements; pilots for testing and improvements have been initiated. Increase coverage on sustainability-related certificates (e.g. ISO 14001) within ISO 14001 is required for new sourcing decisions for environmentally critical the ZF supplier base. parts. Increase CSR self-assessment for new suppliers. 100% implementation of CSR Assessments for new suppliers. No new supplier approval without a CSR Assessment. Implementation of a Sustainability Supplier Assessment for the existing supplier Start of the assessment in Q3 2019 with a pilot phase covering about 800 base and for new suppliers. strategic suppliers. Introduction of a Social Media Monitoring. Social Media Monitoring was initiated in cooperation with a third party. Employees Globally attractive employer: We aim to By 2025, we aim to be among the Top 15 engineering employers in our strateFostering and increasing university cooperations; Trendence/Universum be among the most attractive engineer gic markets. rankings in combination with International ZF Benchmark Study in strategic employers worldwide and well positioned markets. Overall target achievement by 2019 was 50%, with positive ranking in growing markets. especially for professionals and diversity (<Top 15). By 2020, the turnover rate for the Group will be lower than 12% (compared to With a turnover rate of 10.1% the target has been achieved. 13.3% in 2017). By 2025, functional excellence will be established through standardized operaMajor recruiting and learning processes reviewed and standardized. Global tional processes. rollout supported by a new digital HR platform in 2019. Further processes such as onboarding will follow. Training and education: We aim to By 2025, a global and innovative leadership and learning culture will be New open content networks and new digital learning formats have been made continuously contribute to improving the established across divisions, functions and regions. Therefore, a Digital Learnavailable. Our learning portfolio is continuously enriched and blended by organization, in order to achieve a global ing Platform, an active feedback system, harmonized leadership development virtual formats. learning culture of innovative learning and training, agile working environments and an innovative performance manageA learning culture analysis was conducted and has now been finalized. Target development. ment system will be implemented. definitions and actions will be subsequently implemented. 7 ZF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GENERAL DISCLOSURES MATERIAL TOPICS: ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL SUSTAINABILITY PROGRAM Strategic Objective Targets Actions/Status Safety at work and health protection: We Reduction of the Group accident rate (LTAR: accidents with more than one Programs and activities such as near-miss reporting, safety alerts, root cause strive to improve our safety performance by day absence from work per million working hours) by 10% per year. (Goal for analysis and the Safety Leadership program led to an improvement of 15% conducting professional incident manage2020: 3.5%). (4.5 > 3.8%) in 2019. ment, Safety Leadership and Behavior Based Safety actions as well as improving Safety Leadership & Behavior Based Safety (BBS): Conduct 200 Safety Leader307 workshops were conducted by internal Safety Leadership Coaches. Globally our functional safety areas ship workshops worldwide per year. Add 15 sites in 2019 and 20 sites in 2020 23 sites in total were added to the BBS program. The BBS pilot in Germany was to the ZF global Behavior Based Safety program. successful; additional sites in Germany and the rest of the world will be added in 2020 to reach the 2020 target of an additional 20 sites implementing BBS. Internal Transportation: Improve the safety of internal transport by reducing the ~90% of the locations reached the target. potential risk to pedestrians and the number of incidents compared with the previous year by 20%. Occupational health management: We Global implementation of the Health Management System is implemented Implementation at site level started and is supported by regional EHS teams. aim to ensure the protection of the health, worldwide by end of 2021 with fulfillment of 90%. and to promote the well‐being, of our employees worldwide Reporting of occupational diseases worldwide based on national definitions. Ongoing process, first report by end of 2021. Conducting the “Fit im Betrieb” campaign at all German locations. The campaign started in 2019 and will be concluded during 2020. Compliance within the Group: We aim By 2020, all compliance-relevant policies will be harmonized within the Harmonization of all compliance-relevant policies within the entire Group is to continually improve our Compliance entire Group. progressing, and drafts are currently being fine-tuned. Entry into force and Management System to uphold the good implementation are expected to take place in early 2020. reputation we have earned and to ensure the Group’s long-term business success Addition of “Human Rights” as a category of the ZF Trustline, our electronic New target, completion early 2020. compliance notification system. 8 ZF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GENERAL DISCLOSURES MATERIAL TOPICS: ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL SUSTAINABILITY PROGRAM Strategic Objective Targets Actions/Status Production As climate protection has become one of the most urgent issues of our time, ZF makes its contribution by bundling and strengthening current measures in a climate strategy: Our goal is to become climateneutral — from Scope 1 to Scope 3 – not later than 2040 and already halve our emissions from production by 2030 compared to 2018. In doing so, the company is supporting the goals of the Paris Climate Agreement, which aims to limit global warming to 1.5 degree. See GRI 305 for detailed information. Emissions of plant operations: By end of 2020, CO₂ emissions will be reduced by 10% relative to sales based The slight increase of 0.1% results from decreased sales caused by economic Reducing CO₂ emissions caused by plant on the ZF Group performance of 2017 (including direct emissions caused by situation the increase of this specific KPI does not reflect achievements operations ZF operations). regarding absolute reduction. Considering our new ZF Climate Neutrality Strategy to reduce absolute CO₂ emissions we achieved an absolute reduction by -2.6% or 42,000 tons compared to previous year. By 2020, a well-established and comprehensive CO₂ reduction program will Energy program completed and rolled out. Systematical planning for renewable be in place covering energy efficiency and renewable energy. projects in preparation (e.g. new solar plants). By 2020, the emissions profile of purchased energies will be part of the evaluThe development of a concept on renewable energy strategy was anchored in ation during the procurement process. the ZF Climate Neutrality Strategy. By end of 2020, energy consumption will be reduced by a further 10% relative Programs to support locations in energy efficiency projects are in place. The to sales based on the ZF Group performance of 2017. reduction of -0.6% result from decreased sales caused by economic situation – the decrease of this specific KPI does not reflect achievements regarding absolute reduction. Considering our new ZF Climate Neutrality Strategy to reduce absolute CO₂ emissions we achieved an absolute reduction by 118 GWh compared to previous year. Thereof 78 GWh were reduced by energy efficiency measures in 2019. By 2020, energy productivity will be included in regular operations reviews. Energy efficiency as part of Operational Review process. In 2019, the concept was adapted to the new ZF Climate Neutrality Strategy. In this course the Science-based target setting process was also evaluated and considered. Water: Saving water resources and supWater consumption relative to sales will be lower than the previous year. Target on reduction of water consumption relative to sales was achieved. porting clean water quality By 2020, in water-scarce areas project‐related targets will be defined and The ZF Group is not affected by Water Scarced Areas, which is why the focus monitored. is being expanded to include Water Stressed Areas. Waste: Supporting recycling management The amount of waste for disposal relative to sales will be lower than the previTarget on reduction of waste for disposal relative to sales was achieved. and reducing of waste ous year. A special focus will be placed on minimizing landfilling of waste. Multiple locations reduced landfilling due to waste projects. This contributed to the increase of waste for recycling. 9 ZF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GENERAL DISCLOSURES MATERIAL TOPICS: ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI 101: FOUNDATION 2016 GRI 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURES 2016 The following GRI disclosures are based on the Standards (2016) of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). For the Materiality Disclosures Service, GRI Services reviewed that the GRI content index is clearly presented and the references for Disclosures 102-40 to 102-49 align with appropriate sections in the body of the report. 10 ZF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GENERAL DISCLOSURES MATERIAL TOPICS: ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE GRI 102-1 We also digitalize our products to enable Intelligent Mechani• TRW: braking systems, steering and suspension parts and Name of the organization cal Systems, which are being used for vehicles to see, think shock absorbers for passenger cars and commercial veand act. Autonomous driving becomes a reality through hicles. Brakes, clutches, handlebars, pretensioners, radar, ZF Friedrichshafen AG networking environmental sensors, such as camera and radar switches, accessories and footrest systems for motorcycles (see), electronic control units (think) and intelligent mechaGRI 102-2 tronics in driveline, chassis and steering (act). • BOGE: shock absorbers for passenger cars and commerActivities, brands, products, and services cial vehicles Our Group has an international service network of around The ZF Group is a leading worldwide supplier of automotive 120 of its own service locations and 650 service partners. GRI 102-3 components and systems. With our vision of zero accidents Through these partners, ZF customers worldwide have acLocation of headquarters and zero emissions, we shape our future in four technology cess to a comprehensive range of services. This includes areas: Vehicle Motion Control, Integrated Safety, Electric individual service offers for fleets and exchange transmissions Friedrichshafen, Germany Mobility and Automated Driving across three segments: pasfor minimum downtimes as well as intelligent connectivity senger cars, commercial vehicles and industrial applications. solutions, plus maintenance and repair services, and converGRI 102-4 ZF is currently the only supplier to deliver autonomous driving sions and retrofits for more efficiency, comfort and safety. Location of operations systems, electric drivelines and predictive maintenance technologies to both automotive and industry applications. Through ZF Aftermarket we use a workshop concept that not As of 2019, ZF has 18 main development locations and operonly makes technical innovations available in the aftermarket ates at 241 locations in 41 countries. The Group has an inAs our technology can be found in many applications, mobility in good time, but also provides the relevant technical knowternational service network of around 130 of its own service solutions range from motorcycles and construction equipment how for professional diagnostic findings, maintenance and relocations and 650 service partners. to trucks and yachts. In the world of electromobility, ZF stands pair of our components. The most important ZF Aftermarket not only for efficient power consumption in electric vehicles, product brands include: GRI 102-5 but also for intelligent power generation through renewable Ownership and legal form energy sources such as wind parks. At the same time, the • SACHS: clutches, dual‑mass flywheels, torque convertGroup transfers its expertise to all other areas of application, ers and shock absorbers for passenger cars, motorcycles, ZF Friedrichshafen AG is a non-listed corporation in acincluding connectivity and cloud‑based solutions, and is workcommercial vehicles and agricultural machinery cordance with German law. The shareholders of ZF are the ing on digital solutions for mobility providers and new automoZeppelin Foundation, which is administered by the City of tive customers. • LEMFÖRDER: steering and suspension parts, rubber‑to‑ Friedrichshafen and holds 93.8 percent of the company’s metal components for passenger cars and commercial shares, and the Dr. Jürgen and Irmgard Ulderup Foundation, vehicles Lemförde (Germany), which holds 6.2 percent of the company’s shares. Employee stocks are not issued. 11 ZF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GENERAL DISCLOSURES MATERIAL TOPICS: ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE GRI 102-6 GRI 102-8 T. 03 HR Markets served Information on employees and other workers Number of people¹ 2019 2018 2017 The main sales markets of the Group are Europe (46%), On December 31, 2019, ZF employees worldwide numbered North America (29%) and Asia‑Pacific (21%). 147,797. This represents an decrease of 0.79 percent over ZF Group (total) 147,797 148,969 146,148 the previous year. Europe 88,304 86,388 85,294 Cars and light commercial vehicles make up the major share (80%) of the sales distribution by sectors, whereas comIn sum the total number of employees remained stable. of which Germany 50,864 50,794 50,618 mercial vehicles over six tons (12%) and construction and The support of ZF’s Next Generation Mobility has lead to North America 34,785 36,762 35,885 agricultural machinery, marine craft, aircraft, special and rail an increase in the Technology Center in India. In view of the vehicles, and wind power (8%) account for the minor shares. increasing importance of India, since 2018 the country has not South America 5,322 5,509 5,470 been listed as part of Asia‑Pacific but as a separate region. Asia-Pacific² 16,132 17,396 18,367 GRI 102-7 The headcount in Germany is slightly unchanged. There are Scale of the organization increases in Europe and India, and decreases of headcount India 2 2,627 1,980 in Asia-Pacific, North America, South America and Africa. Africa 627 934 1,133 At the end of 2019, ZF had a workforce of 147,797 employees at approximately 241 locations and 18 main development Almost two‑thirds of the Group’s employees work in Europe, Employee Category³ locations. ZF has a portfolio of several thousand products most of them in Germany. 96 percent of all employees have Direct 74,442 78,281 77,797 and generated sales of €35.5 billion in 2019. For detailed regular contracts with the ZF Group. The percentage of womliabilities and equity, please see the Consolidated statement en employed by the ZF Group is 27, with the North America Indirect 73,355 70,688 68,352 of financial position, p. 27 in the 2019 Annual Report. region showing the highest proportion with 40 percent. In Work contracts 2019, ZF had a total of 12,429 External Agency Workers. Regular 142,068 143,198 141,954 Limited 5,729 5,771 4,194 Full-time 144,246 146,383 143,513 Part-time 3,551 2,586 2,635 Apprentices and temporary workers Apprentices 2,540 2,756 2,856⁴ External Agency Workers 12,429 12,421 15,195 1 Number of employees by contracts in accordance with IFRS regulations at the end of the year. 2 As of 2018, India is not listed as part of Asia‑Pacific but as a separate region. 3 Direct and indirect participation in value creation processes. 12 ZF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GENERAL DISCLOSURES MATERIAL TOPICS: ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE GRI 102-9 mental due diligence is also conducted as part of acquisition • Automotive Industry Action Group (AIAG) Supply Chain processes to minimize liability and financial risks. Additionally, internal and external audits are conducted. • Carbon Composites e.V. Solely for the procurement of production materials, ZF maintains a global network consisting of approximately 6,600 In preparation for emergencies, every location has an emer• Chamber of Industry and Commerce Hochrhein Bodensee suppliers, ranging from small family businesses through to gency organization in place. Emergency response teams are large groups. Among these, there are about 1,200 strategic provided with adequate equipment and procedures. Mock • Chamber of Industry and Commerce Oberschwaben, suppliers. Furthermore, ZF has about 46,380 non-production emergency drills are carried out on a regular basis. TechniWeingarten material suppliers worldwide. cal installations (e.g. flood or fire protection, collection trays, redundant installations) are company standard, as are behav• Compliance Network e.V. The purchasing volume for production materials totaled €20.6 ior‑based measures for increasing awareness for prevention billion in 2019 and includes directed buy volumes. The value of environmental damage. • Employers’ Association Südwestmetall of non‑production materials amounted to some €6.0 billion. GRI 102-12 • European Association of Automotive Suppliers (CLEPA) Since ZF manufactures products at about 160 locations External initiatives worldwide, a major part of value creation in production lies in • Foundation of German Business – Remembrance, the supply of components. The costs for materials purchased The ZF Group observes the core labor standards of the Responsibility, and Future (as a donor) from suppliers account for some 73 percent of sales. ZF supInternational Labour Organization (ILO), the content of the pliers are normally contractors who procure the raw materials German Corporate Governance Code and the OECD Guide• German Aerospace Industries Association (BDLI) or basic components for the products ordered, manufacture the lines for Multinational Enterprises. ZF also respects and sup(ZF Luftfahrttechnik GmbH, Kassel-Calden is a member) products and, in some cases, also design products. ports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. • German Association of Materials Management, GRI 102-10 Purchasing, and Logistics e.V. (BME) Significant changes to the organization and its supply Therefore, ZF signed the United Nations Global Compact chain on May 1, 2012, thus committing the Group to observe and • German Digital Association e.V. (Bitkom) promote its ten principles. Since joining, ZF has also become There were no significant changes relevant to this report. a member of the German Global Compact Network and par• German Global Compact Network ticipates in exchanges between the member companies. GRI 102-11 • German Association of the Automotive Industry e.V. (VDA) Precautionary Principle or approach GRI 102-13 Memberships of associations • German Engineering Federation e.V. (VDMA) All locations follow the principle “prevention before reaction” and the precautionary principle. Therefore, a core element The ZF Group and its companies are committed to a wide • German Federation for Motor Trades and Repairs (ZDK) of ZF’s Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) management range of associations and interest groups. The following list system is the evaluation and minimization of potential risks. provides a representative selection: • German Diversity Charter (Charta der Vielfalt e.V.) All locations conduct environmental aspect assessments and risk assessments for their respective facilities and processes • Association of German Engineers e.V. (VDI) – Lake • Wissenswerkstatt Friedrichshafen e.V. (as a supporting in a local context and on a regular basis, for example prior Constance regional association (as a supporting member) organization) to the introduction of procedures and substances. Environ13 ZF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GENERAL DISCLOSURES MATERIAL TOPICS: ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL STRATEGY STRATEGY GRI 102-14 Our overarching aim is to balance the mobility needs of our protection and fighting corruption. ZF is actively supporting Statement from senior decision-maker society with the prerequisites of a healthy ecosystem. We these principles not only with regard to our own operations must ensure that all of our activities respect the latter’s limits but along the entire value chain. Dear readers, and at the same time develop sustainable and future-fit solutions. As we have a clear vision to be part of the solution In addition to our commitment to climate protection, it is a 2019 was a year many will remember because of challenging to the current environmental and societal challenges, ZF is central concern of ZF to ensure that human rights are reweather events across the globe. Some of them had an unprepared to step up its efforts. spected worldwide and within all of our business activities. In precedented scale like the bushfires in Australia. Combined, the reporting period, we have reviewed our Business Partner these events are proof that we all have to work even harder For this reason, we have worked intensively on our ZF CliPrinciples, published a Statement of Principles on Human to achieve our goals for sustainable development. For two mate Neutrality Strategy over the past year. Our long-term Rights and have initiated a series of measures to further reasons in particular, I am confident that we can overcome goal is to become climate neutral, from Scope 1 to Scope strengthen our due diligence processes in the supply chain. the enormous challenges that we are facing today. 3, no later than 2040 and already halve our emissions from production by 2030 compared to 2018. At the same time, we With this report we wish to inform you of our progress within Firstly, ZF is well prepared to offer technological solutions will work on reducing emissions across our supply chain as all of our sustainability related action fields. We welcome that benefit people – and the planet. We are investing more well as minimizing the environmental impact from our prodyour feedback and engagement. than ever in research and development following our ZF ucts. In doing so, ZF can actively support the goals of the Strategy with good results. Recent product innovations like Paris Climate Agreement which aims to limit global warming Yours sincerely, our EVplus plug-in hybrid and our e-drive technology give to 1.5 degrees. proof to this. It is now in volume production with an OEM for passenger cars and a European market leader in city buses. To emphasize this commitment, ZF decided to join the World We have made solid progress over the last 18 months with Economic Forum’s Alliance of CEO Climate Leaders. The aim Wolf-Henning Scheider milestone business awards which show that our strategy is of this initiative is to demonstrate the engagement of the Chief Executive Officer on the right track. Where solutions are not yet at hand, we business community for climate action and at the same time will continue pushing forward. to advocate a uniform regulatory framework. ZF will fulfill its own promise by working relentlessly and with clear focus. Secondly, I have spoken with many smart and motivated people inside and outside of ZF who are working together Furthermore, since 2012 ZF has been a signatory of the to achieve our common sustainability goals and one comUnited Nations Global Compact. Under this initiative, over mon theme is clear: ZF has a history of managing change 13,000 organizations are working towards a more sustainsuccessfully. Now, as part of our Next Generation Mobility able future – sharing strategies and joining actions. We are strategy, we are pursuing an agile and integrated approach to keeping our commitment to promoting its ten principles in shape the fundamentally changing mobility requirements of the areas of human rights, labor standards, environmental tomorrow. 14 ZF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GENERAL DISCLOSURES MATERIAL TOPICS: ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL STRATEGY GRI 102-15 and analyzed. They are then actioned if substantiated. More ing demand for finite resources, which is leading to increased Key impacts, risks, and opportunities detailed information about our general approach regarding conflict. Several trends require a technology shift toward effirisk management can be found in the 2019 Annual Report, ciency and resource conservation, which ZF is pushing for by ZF’s opportunities and risks culture is focused on sustaining p. 30. continually reducing CO₂ and noise emissions, for example. the Group’s continued existence and increasing its value. Our Megatrends also play a central role when setting targets risk management system aims to identify and take opportuniOver the past two years, the Group has gradually developed for innovation. ZF identifies a need for action, principally in ties as early as possible while preempting risks that could its ZF Enterprise Risk Management. This includes the definithe areas of efficiency, advanced driver assistance systems, adversely affect the value of our activities by identifying them tion and regulation of clear roles and responsibilities as well autonomous driving and integrated safety. early, assessing them appropriately and initiating suitable as a Group-wide standardized risk management process. management measures. Another major innovation of the revised Enterprise Risk ManInnovative solutions in these areas are directed towards our agement (ERM) is an integrated Governance, Risk & Compli“Vision Zero”: Zero accidents. Zero emissions. ZF therefore The Board of Management is responsible for the risk manageance (GRC) approach, which is characterized by improved offers solutions for almost all vehicle segments which are ment system and reports to the Supervisory Board and the interfaces between the internal control system, compliance, showcased for example by the Vision Zero Vehicle, the ZF Audit Committee about the identified opportunities and risks corporate audit, and corporate risk management. Structured Tractor, the ZF Innovation Truck or the ZF Advanced Urban on a regular basis but also on an ad hoc basis as situations documentation and monitoring of risks and measures to deal Vehicle. In order to take full advantage of these opportuniarise. The Supervisory Board is responsible for monitoring the with them, the consideration of strategic and operational ties, ZF has invested in companies, creating a close network Board of Management and therefore oversees the effectiverisks and the future aggregation of the overall risk landscape of strategic cooperation. We call this the ZF Vision Zero Eco ness of the risk management system. The implementation of all contribute to improved transparency of the risk situation. System. the ZF risk management system is regularly audited in terms of compliance by Corporate Audit. In addition, the external As part of the environmental management system in accorWith strong partners and wide‑ranging expertise, ZF can auditors check ZF’s early risk detection system as part of the dance with ISO 14001, respective risks and opportunities are make this vision real one day: Driver assistance systems and annual Group audit. assessed at site and Group level and reported as part of the the continuous development of automated and autonomous management review. This procedure will be adapted to the driving can drastically reduce the number of accidents. At the The framework conditions, as well as the responsibilities and new enterprise risk management standard in 2020. same time highly efficient hybrid drives and locally completely processes of the risk management system, are laid down in a emission‑free electric drives are contributing to emission Group-wide directive approved by the Board of Management. The context for our sustainability considerations is to a large reduction. It is accessible to all employees and is subject to regular extent shaped by global megatrends. Climate change, demoreview by Group Risk Management, which also ensures comgraphic change and increasing urbanization are leading to pliance with the directive. Major opportunities are also listed changes in consumer behavior – with a fundamentally grow15 ZF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GENERAL DISCLOSURES MATERIAL TOPICS: ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL STRATEGY GRI 102-16 Code of Conduct Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior Correct, responsible and sustainable business management and accepting corporate social responsibility are fundamental A company can only achieve business success in an intact components of our corporate policy. We reject all forms of economic environment. But a company’s focus on success human trafficking and support the abolition of slavery, forced must also match the development of the surrounding and delabor and child labor. Our Code of Conduct explicitly states pendent companies so that sustainable corporate governance that we do not tolerate any discrimination, especially on the is possible for all. This principle plays a major role in the relagrounds of race, gender, religion, age, nationality, social or tionships with our business partners, but also in investments ethnic origin, pregnancy, disability, belief, sexual orientation, in production materials and capacities. or political and trade union engagement. These principles apply to all new and existing employees and the collegial This is why the Group has firmly anchored sustainable correlationships between employees, our dealings with business porate management factors in its Guiding Principles. They partners and, lastly, how employees are promoted within the are seen not as individual actions, but as a central aspect of organization. See GRI 205 for more information and our entrepreneurial activity in the day‑to‑day decision‑making Code of Conduct. processes. Business Partner Principles ZF Charter The ZF Business Partner Principles (BPP) require all suppliAs an integral part of the ZF Management System, the ZF ers and service providers to make a commitment to respect Charter defines aspects regarded as most important across national and international laws and regulations at their locaall our divisions, functions and regions. The Guiding Printions worldwide. They must ensure that human rights are ciples of the ZF Charter are: Innovation Approach, Customer respected and human dignity is protected in all business Focus, Result Orientation and Commitment to People. The processes. The BPP are currently being revised, and a new Guiding Principle “Commitment to People” helps us create version is expected to enter into force in 2020. See GRI 204 a corporate culture that supports trusting collaboration and for more information on our management approach regarding motivates top performance. business partners. The ZF Management System with its focus on Speed, Simplicity and Target Focus and its four principles are at the core of all our activities and actions and represent everything that makes ZF special. By concentrating on them, we become stronger, and grow faster and more sustainably. 16 ZF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GENERAL DISCLOSURES MATERIAL TOPICS: ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE GRI 102-18 With due consideration for German legislation governing The risk management framework including the correspondGovernance structure equal representation of women and men in managerial posiing responsibilities and processes is governed through a tions in the private and public sectors, ZF Friedrichshafen Group-wide binding policy, applicable to all of its direct and The shareholders, the Zeppelin Foundation and the Dr. AG has discussed and set targets for the relevant managerial indirect controlled subsidiaries. This policy is accessible to all Jürgen and Irmgard Ulderup Foundation exercise their voting levels to be achieved by June 30, 2022. employees and is subject to regular reviews. Implementation rights at the annual shareholders’ meeting. and compliance are ensured by Corporate Risk Management. • At the first managerial level (executive vice president/ ZF Friedrichshafen AG and the ZF Group are led by the Board senior vice president) and the second managerial level Corporate Risk Management coordinates the risk manageof Management, which manages the company, and by the (vice president) below the Board of Management, the ment process at group level and provides structure, suitable Supervisory Board, which monitors the Board of Managepercentage of women is planned to increase to 15.0 methods and technologies. The risk management system is ment. For the most part, the activities of the Board of Manpercent each. integrated into the strategy, planning, controlling and reporting agement are strategic in nature and comprise responsibility processes of all Corporate Functions and operational units. for the corporate functions, the divisions and the regions. In • For vacancies regarding the Board of Management, a this context, particular importance is placed on close netquota of 10.0 percent female Board of Management The Risk Committee, which is led by the member of the working and cooperation within the Group. Operational topmembers is envisaged. The appointment of Sabine Board of Management responsible for Finance, IT and M&A, ics are mainly addressed in the divisions and business units. Jaskula as member of the Board of Management for the is responsible for evaluating the holistic risk situation for ZF HR and Legal Corporate Function means that this target and for initiating further development of Corporate GoverIn the 2019 fiscal year, the Board of Management initially has been met. nance aspects. The accountability for risk management lies comprised seven members, and later, eight: Chief Executive with the Board of Management. The Board of Management Officer Wolf-Henning Scheider, Dr. Konstantin Sauer, Michael • For vacancies regarding the Supervisory Board, a quota of reports the both centrally and decentrally identified relevant Hankel, Sabine Jaskula, Dr. Holger Klein, Dr. Franz Kleiner 30.0 percent was set. The quota is currently 10 percent. opportunities and risks at least quarterly to the Supervisory and Wilhelm Rehm. Dr. Martin Fischer was appointed to the Board as well as the Audit Committee. The Supervisory Board of Management on November 1, 2019. As of 2020, GRI 102-30 Board monitors the Board of Management and focuses on he took charge of the responsibilities previously managed by Effectiveness of risk management processes the effectiveness of the risk management system. Corporate Dr. Franz Kleiner, who stepped down on December 31, 2019. Audit checks the implementation and effectiveness of the risk The objective of ZF’s Enterprise Risk Management is to management system on a regular basis. Every year, the suitThe supervision of the Board of Management by the Super­ recognize and realize opportunities as well as to identify ability of the early warning system is subject to the Financial visory Board, whose members are appointed with equal threats of value losses from entrepreneurial activities at an Statement audit by the assigned external auditor. representation, is supported by an Executive Committee and early stage, to assess resulting risks and to initiate adequate an Audit Committee which are both composed of members mitigating measures. of the Supervisory Board. In the fiscal year, the Supervisory Board comprised 20 members under the leadership of Dr. Ing. Franz-Josef Paefgen. 17 ZF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GENERAL DISCLOSURES MATERIAL TOPICS: ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT GRI 102-40 GRI 102-42 In this environment the role of a Tier 1 automotive supplier List of stakeholder groups Identifying and selecting stakeholders such as ZF is rapidly changing. From selling components and systems we are now offering complex vehicle functions to a There are many significant stakeholders at ZF, including As our approach to stakeholder communication and engreater extent, such as autonomous driving or vehicle motion employees, customers, suppliers, the company owners, gagement has been applied and refined for several years, control. This requires not only new skills but also a different investors, authorities, trade unions, associations, the media all relevant stakeholders are well identified. Each group is market approach, offering the entire competence and product and politicians as well as business partners and residents at important, since it contributes unique insights and feedback. portfolio of ZF from the one source. Furthermore, our cuscompany locations. An increasingly important group includes Our day‑to‑day interaction influences the way we reconsider tomers expect an empowered counterpart that can represent the next generation of employees, which is why schools, voand reevaluate topics, processes and priorities. the entire Group. cational schools, universities of applied sciences, universities and scientific institutes can be found at the top of the list of GRI 102-43 Therefore, we have rebuilt our sales organisation in 2019 stakeholder groups to be involved. As a B2B company, ZF has Approach to stakeholder engagement with the participation of our top customers. In this global key rarely been in direct contact with national, non‑governmental account management organization, the Key Account Execuorganizations (NGOs) that represent ecological and social ZF is in regular contact with its stakeholders through the tives (KAE's) are the decision makers and most important issues. However, as is the case with local environmental following channels: the German Global Compact Network, customer contact for the entire ZF Group. The KAE manage initiatives that are often in direct communication with the personal contact with residents at company locations, the the customer account in an entrepreneurial manner, they are location managements, these NGOs likewise number among media, direct discussions with customers, suppliers, invesresponsible for customer-specific results and act as sparring the stakeholder groups that we consider important. tors, analysts and other capital market participants, as well as partners for the divisions. The introduction of the new key acsurveys on topics such as sustainability, and with employees count management organization is supported by ZF's internal GRI 102-41 via the Works Council as well as through internal events and Sales Academy with targeted training. Collective bargaining agreements Group media. Employees The Group values open communication among its employees Customer satisfaction Since employees collaborate on an everyday basis, feedback and respects their right – as is consistent with applicable law Delivery reliability, the ability to innovate and cost competiand recognition are ever‑present. Several new initiatives to – to join or assist a labor union or works council, or to refrain tiveness are basic qualifiers in today’s automotive industry. foster ZF’s feedback culture have been implemented (e.g. from doing so. No employee or employee representative shall Due to regulatory changes, rising consumer awareness and regular Skip-Level-Meetings). Employee feedback surveys are be disadvantaged as a consequence of exercising his or her new supply chains for megatrends such as electrification, the implemented on location level. The objective is to sustainably rights in this regard. As the implementation of HR software sustainability expectations towards the automotive industry contribute to company goals through increased transparency tools has not yet been completed, valid data regarding collective are constantly growing. and by involving employees on all levels. bargaining agreements within our workforce were not available. 18 ZF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GENERAL DISCLOSURES MATERIAL TOPICS: ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT ZF Excellence Award benchmark again highlighted the respective critical toring is to check the extent to which companies meet their The fifth ZF Excellence Award set a new record: Over 4,000 points, we had already started to revise our supply chain due responsibilities. In this context ZF maintains close dialogue employees in 935 teams took part in the competition, with diligence processes in 2018. Among other things, we have with all monitoring partners. With other suppliers and OEM 776 applications from more than 100 locations in 29 counnow finished the review of our Business Partner Principles in the German Association of the Automotive Industry (VDA), tries. Participation across regions, divisions and departments and published a Statement of Principles on Human Rights ZF also works together on an assessment standard that was very well balanced. Of the 46 teams that reached the (see GRI 204 for more information). In the light of Germany’s examines different criteria of Corporate Social Responsibility final, the Executive Board and top management selected five National Action Plan (NAP) on Business and Human Rights, including human rights issues. winners in each of the categories. ZF is part of the NAP Monitoring. The objective of this moniIn addition to the categories “Products and Manufacturing Processes”, “Health, Safety, Environment and Social Affairs”, T. 01 Types of stakeholder communication “Small Projects”, “Learning from Each Other” and “Business Processes and Methods”, a special “Best Performing Plant” Groups Media prize was again awarded in 2019. Employees “we>move” employee magazine, social intranet “Zoom” including CEO Blog and various GRI 102-44 news channels, townhall meetings, webinars, innovation challenges and pitch event, Key topics and concerns raised Excellence Award and family days, zf.com, social media, ZF hilft, ZF BarCamp New Work, ZF Digital Convention Over the past year, the topics climate change and human Potential employees Cooperations with universities, Annual Report, Sustainability Report, advertisements, rights have dominated the general discussion in society. ZF website, involvement in trade fairs, “vision” print/online magazine, social media Accordingly, our stakeholders have more and more addressed these issues with us. Former employees ZF website, ZF pensioner association, ZF Family Day, Senior Professionals Program, “vision” online magazine, social media With regards to combating climate change, civil society in Customers Annual Report, Sustainability Report, “vision” company magazine, ZF website, brochures, particular raised its voice and increased the pressure for advertisements, customer days, involvement in trade fairs, key account management action by companies and governments alike. By the end End customers Annual Report, Sustainability Report, involvement in trade fairs such as the Frankfurt of 2019, Germany adopted the Climate Action Programme Motor Show, North American International Auto Show, CES, non‑automotive trade fairs, 2030, including a price on CO₂ emissions in the transport advertisements, ZF website, “vision” online magazine, social media and heating sectors as of 2021. In addition to regulatory efforts, ZF has been increasingly addressed by its customers Suppliers and partners Annual Report, Sustainability Report, ZF website, involvement in trade shows, advertisebut also employees to learn more about our next steps in the ments, supplier days, key purchasing strategy, ZF Global Supplier Summit, “vision” online magazine, social media field of combating climate change. During 2019 we have pre­ pared a Climate Neutrality Strategy, which we announced in Politics, associations, interest groups Annual Report, Sustainability Report, ZF website, personal discussions, early 2020 (see GRI 305 for more information). In the course External Affairs department of 2020 we will continue to further elaborate specific actions Educational institutions Sustainability Report, cooperations with universities and schools, ZF website, involvement including increasing partnerships and respective dialogue. in trade fairs, advertisements, “vision” online magazine, social media At the end of 2019 the Corporate Human Rights BenchPress and the media Annual Report, Sustainability Report, ZF website, press releases, press conferences, mark published its assessment of Germany’s twenty largest “vision” online magazine, social media, Online Press Center companies in which ZF finished in the rear ranks. While the Communities Press, ZF website, advertisements, sponsoring, regional events, “vision” online magazine, social media 19 ZF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GENERAL DISCLOSURES MATERIAL TOPICS: ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL REPORTING PRACTICE REPORTING PRACTICE GRI 102-45 GRI 102-46 GRI 102-47 Entities included in the financial statement Defining report content and topic boundaries List of material topics In addition to ZF Friedrichshafen AG, 34 German and 236 The topic boundaries of this report follow the materiality • 201 Economic performance international subsidiaries controlled by ZF Friedrichshafen AG analysis which we conducted in summer 2018. • 203 Indirect economic impacts are included in the consolidated financial statements. • 204 Procurement practices As for the methodology: In a first step, a list of all sustain• 205 Anti-corruption On March 28, 2019, ZF Friedrichshafen AG signed a binding ability topics potentially relevant to ZF was compiled. An • 301 Materials agreement regarding the purchase of all outstanding shares industry analysis and general sustainability standards served • 302 Energy of WABCO Holdings Inc. WABCO) listed on the New York as the basis. In the next step, this list was evaluated by an • 303 Water Stock Exchange for a cash purchase price of $136.50 per external expert panel via qualitative telephone interviews • 305 Emissions share. This corresponds to a purchase price of approximately and a supplementary online survey. Additionally, opportuni• 306 Effluents and waste $7 billion. The Board of Management and the Supervisory ties and risks were concretized; and ZF’s opportunities to • 307 Environmental compliance Board of ZF as well as the Board of Directors of WABCO exert influence were discussed. As part of a workshop of the • 308 Supplier environmental assessment agreed to the planned acquisition. On June 27, 2019, Sustainability Steering Committee, the topics were then pri• 401 Employment 68.44% of the WABCO shareholders agreed to the transoritized with regard to business relevance, relevance from the • 402 Labor management relations action. The transaction is subject to a number of general stakeholders’ point of view, and the impacts of ZF’s business • 403 Occupational health and safety closing conditions, e.g. approval by the responsible authoriactivities. Topics for reporting and topics that should be the • 404 Training and education ties. ZF expects to be able to complete the transaction in the focus of strategic further development were identified in this • 405 Diversity and equal opportunity spring of 2020. process. The results of the materiality analysis were finally • 406 Non-discrimination confirmed by the Board of Management. • 414 Supplier social assessment WABCO is a leading global supplier of brake control systems, • 416 Customer health and safety technologies and services for the improvement of the safety, efficiency and connectivity of trucks, buses and trailers. WABCO offers integrated brake control and stability control systems, air suspension, transmission automation and aerodynamics, telematics and fleet management systems. In 2019, WABCO achieved sales of €3 billion. The company employs approximately 14,000 people in 40 countries around the globe. More detailed information about entities belonging to the Group can be found in ZF’s 2019 Annual Report, page 47f. 20 ZF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GENERAL DISCLOSURES MATERIAL TOPICS: ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL REPORTING PRACTICE GRI 102-51 ZF M AT E R IAL IT Y M AT R I X Date of most recent report Employer attractiveness Emissions from upstream Product safety and downstream acticvities March 2019 Corporate citizenship Diversity and Training and Occupational GRI 102-52 inclusion education health and safety Reporting cycle Annual Relevance from stakeholder perspective GRI 102-53 Water Compliance Sustainable product portfolio Contact point for questions regarding the report Social standards in Environmental standards the supply chain in the supply chain ZF Friedrichshafen AG Corporate Governance Sustainability Löwentaler Straße 20 Material efficiency of products 88046 Friedrichshafen Compliance in Waste Company health management supply chain Emissions from plant operations Email: sustainability@zf.com Biodiversity Contribution to the economy GRI 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards  Extent of business relevance This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. Significance of economic, environmental and social impacts GRI 102-55 GRI content index GRI 102-48 GRI 102-50 This GRI table is the GRI content index. Restatements of information Reporting period GRI 102-56 A few figures were updated with explanatory footnotes This is the eighth edition of the Sustainability Report External assurance under respective disclosures. published by ZF Friedrichshafen AG, which follows the ZF Sustainability Report 2018. This report was not submitted for an external assurance. GRI 102-49 It is based on the fiscal year 2019. Changes in reporting In accordance with the updated materiality. 21 ZF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GENERAL DISCLOSURES MATERIAL TOPICS: ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL MATERIAL TOPICS 22 ZF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GENERAL DISCLOSURES MATERIAL TOPICS: ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL ECONOMIC ECONOMIC GRI 201 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 2016 • Electromobility: offering purely electric and hybrid soluAdvanced Base Technology: This cluster deals with basic tions for all vehicle segments: In addition to drives, this technologies that make complex vehicle functions possible, GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 includes power electronics, inverters and suitable software including modern, high-resolution sensors, artificial intelli(incl. 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) solutions. gence, powerful central electronic controls, and cutting-edge In 2018, under its new Chief Executive Officer Wolf‑Henning materials for efficient power electronics. Scheider, ZF established a new strategy, “Next Generation ZF's strategic approach is to ensure it can meet both historiMobility,” based on the core objectives of the ZF 2025 Stratcal and future challenges by continuing to develop existing Within these four clusters are 18 key technologies that we egy. The strategy is designed to position ZF and its systems technology while also entering completely new markets and are pursuing in global research and development. expertise in the passenger car, commercial vehicle and fields, thus serving both existing and new customers. Our industrial applications sectors goal is technology leadership within our industry and our The top financial key figures ROCE (Return on Capital Emroadmap consists of four technology clusters that we defined ployed), ZF Value Added, and Operating Result are used to Our strategic focus is digital networking and automation. In as follows: measure and monitor the financial performance of the ZF line with this we are developing our product portfolio around Group. For more details see the 2019 Annual Report, p. 22. four technological fields, systematically combining them Vehicle System & Functions: In the future, vehicles will through integrated solutions: increasingly be controlled by system functions. This cluster GRI 201-1 is developing the necessary architectures and software Direct economic value generated and distributed • Vehicle Motion Control: Supply of networking solutions for methods as well as the structure of these complex system intelligent chassis control: These solutions combine steerfunctions. The ZF Group had to accept decreasing sales by -1.1 percent ing, braking, damping and electric drive and ensure safe, to €36.518 million and invested 2.652 (2018: €2,501 million) efficient and comfortable mobility via a central controller. Data Handling & Analytics: This cluster focuses on vehicle in research and development, which is 7.3 percent of Group connectivity and communication with the infrastructure, from sales (2018: 6.7). The ZF Group overall donated €3.60 million • Integrated Safety: Providing products and solutions for embedded components to the IoT platform necessary for data (2018: €5.61 million). mobile safety: The spectrum ranges from sensors, brakes, analysis, and algorithms including artificial intelligence. steering systems, seat belts, airbags and electronics to The production materials purchasing volume in 2019 totaled active chassis. Efficient Energy Conversion: We are researching and develop€20.6 billion. This includes directed buy volumes. The value ing the efficient storage (batteries, hydrogen/fuel cell) and of non‑production materials amounted to some €6.016 • Automated Driving: Providing products and solutions on conversion (frequency changers, electric motors, DC/DC conbillion. Overall personnel expenses totaled €4.783 million the road to automated driving: Cameras, radar, lasers, verters) of electrical energy as well as systemic algorithms (2018: €4.761 million), including wages and salaries, social 360-degree communication and overview systems, intelfor optimized vehicle control. security contributions and benefit expenses. For more details ligent drive, steering and brake controls, and humansee the consolidated statement of profit or loss in the 2019 machine interfaces. Annual Report, p. 40. 23 ZF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GENERAL DISCLOSURES MATERIAL TOPICS: ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL ECONOMIC In China, emissions regulations and caps have been largely interruptions in the supply chain to the region affected. We T. 02  ngoing tax payments by regions O taken into account in the plant operating permits and have are also carbon-footprinting selected components and supply 2019 (2018) also been managed according to the 13th Five-Year Plan. material to gain insights for further optimization. in € million In 2019, Germany passed a climate protection law whose Product level 6 (9) requirements will have a manageable impact on ZF plant ZF generates a substantial proportion of its sales with prodOther operations from the years 2021–2025. Since 40 percent of ucts used in the combustion engine driveline. Even though 114 (94) CO₂ emissions are generated in German plant operations, progressive electrification in the passenger car and commerAsia-Pacific ZF is preparing for even more stringent requirements from cial vehicle drive segment may represent a competing techTotal 154 (337) 2025 onwards by expanding emissions trading. nology, ZF sees promising opportunities in the development 306 (476) Europe of safe and clean mobility through its electric, electronic and 32 (36) The European Union’s Green Deal was adopted by Parliament mechatronic competence. North America in January 2020. After the editorial deadline of this report, the Commission will present a new European industrial stratMoreover, with our Vision Zero we defined a strategic egy to tackle the twin challenges of the environmental and response impacting many levels and processes within the digital transformation. ZF Group. Aiming for zero emissions and zero accidents leads to new products and services. The development of competitive Losses due to extreme weather products has opened up new sales opportunities for ZF. GRI 201-2 Extreme weather situations caused by climate change such At the same time, a possible increase in fuel or energy prices Financial implications and other risks and opportunities as high water and flooding or extreme drought have so far may result in an increase in logistics costs and a fall in the due to climate change only affected our production locations in isolated cases. demand for individual mobility on the part of the market. Nevertheless, ZF sees these developments as a potential ZF deals with this risk through innovations in hybrid technoOne of the main factors resulting from our business activities risk with more frequent and more extensive consequences logy, e‑mobility and lightweight design. China's move away is the emission of greenhouse gases during the production to come. This is why we include early precautions against from a purely battery-electric electromobility strategy opens and use phases of our products. Reducing these emissions is extreme weather and natural disasters as part of our sustainup possibilities for diversification discussions on the drive therefore a central element of ZF’s environmental policy and able corporate development. technology of the future and confirms ZF's position on techtargets, which are managed worldwide by our environmental nology openness in drive technology. For more information management system compliant with ISO 14001. See GRI 300 We have only seen isolated examples of higher property about ZF solutions see GRI 302‑5. for more details on ZF’s environmental management approach. insurance premiums at locations subject to potential natural hazards such as flooding, storm or extreme drought. These In January 2020 ZF presented a strategy to be part of the Worldwide legislative and regulatory measures in the fight could increase in the future if incidents of damage occur solution to climate change. The longer-term goal is to become against climate change continue to gain momentum. Yet, the more frequently. These issues are decisive factors when climate-neutral not later than 2040 and halve all emissions by legally binding implementation of national climate protection building new plants or purchasing production facilities. 2030 compared to 2018. In doing so, the company is supportplans remains largely unclear due to the outcome of the 25th ing the goals of the Paris Climate Agreement, which aims to Climate Change Conference (COP25) in Madrid. Only few Supply chains in light of climate change limit global warming to 1.5 degrees. See GRI 305 for more countries have already created regulations, including China, To minimize risks and manage them more effectively, the detailed information. Mexico and Germany. ZF Group is working on localizing sources. The objective here is to reduce transport costs and actively contribute to lowering CO₂ emissions. Furthermore, this can limit the impact of 24 ZF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GENERAL DISCLOSURES MATERIAL TOPICS: ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL ECONOMIC GRI 201-3 GRI 203 INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS 2016 GRI 203-1 Defined benefit plan obligations and other Infrastructure investments and services supported retirement plans GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 (incl. 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) ZF makes significant investments in technical professions. Provisions for pensions are set up for obligations from vested We are aware that a company can only achieve business We aim to promote interest in and enthusiasm for science, benefits and current pensions for entitled current and former success in an intact economic environment. A company’s technology, engineering or mathematics (STEM) subjects employees of the consolidated ZF Group and their surviving focus on success must match the development of the surearly on among children and adolescents, with particular dependents. Various retirement pension schemes exist in rounding and dependent companies so that sustainable emphasis on girls. ZF is achieving this objective for instance accordance with the legal, economic and tax situation in corporate governance is possible for all. This principle plays by actively participating in the Girls’ Day and running Knowthe respective countries, which – as a rule – are based on a major role in our relationships with business partners, but ledge Workshops (“Wissenswerkstätten”) in several German the length of service and emoluments of the employees. In also in our investments in production materials and capacicities. These popular workshops enable hundreds of children general, for company pension schemes a distinction can be ties. ZF is one of the biggest employers and customers in all and adolescents every year to gain hands‑on experience in made between defined contribution plans (DC) and defined the regions in which the company operates. See GRI 102‑9 the world of technology. benefit plans (DB). Plan benefits depend upon salary, length and GRI 204‑1 for details regarding our expenses for our of service and the cost of living index. For details about supplier network, which has significant indirect economic In higher education, ZF finances endowed professorships provision for pensions see the 2019 Annual Report, p. 28. impacts as we apply our “local for local” principle. across the world. Cooperation with renowned universities, for example the Baden‑Württemberg Cooperative State GRI 201-4 Corporate social responsibility at ZF is an important and University in Friedrichshafen, the RWTH Aachen University Financial assistance received from government intrinsic component of the company’s mission statement. or the University of Michigan in Detroit, is part of the young In line with this commitment, we therefore contribute a great talent promotion program. In the fiscal year 2019, €27 million (2018: €42 million) in deal to our local communities by supporting education, sports government grants was received. These were divided as and recreation, culture, and environmental and community Furthermore, ZF supports several teams of the Formula follows: Investment grants were basically received for investprojects. Activities of this nature range from funding endowed Student Germany competition. In this engineering design ments at various locations in Germany, India, China, South chairs at universities, through the ZF Art Foundation supportcontest, international students compete against each other Africa and the USA. Expense subsidies mainly comprise reing artists and musicians, festivals and non‑profit organizain various disciplines with race cars which they build themsearch subsidies and subsidies for education and vocational tions, to sponsoring the elite volleyball players of the VfB selves. In addition to sharing its expertise, ZF has been suptraining. Friedrichshafen team or funding many local recreational sports. porting these young talents with high-tech racing products, financial assistance and team‑building activities since 2002. Each year, ZF gives the Zeppelin Foundation a dividend. In 2019, ZF sponsored 41 university teams. In the Formula The funds are used in line with the articles of association, Student Driverless race category, ZF supported eight teams. especially in the fields of science and research, art and culture, In this category, students face a new challenge: developing as well as child and youth development. The Dr. Jürgen and a race car that runs without a driver in autonomous mode Irmgard Ulderup Foundation in Lemförde supports the educa– in line with the ZF triad “See – Think – Act”, the leading tion and vocational training of young people as well as nature principle for bringing artificial intelligence to vehicles. and landscape conservation. Jürgen Ulderup was the founder of the Lemförder Group, a company that is part of the ZF Group today. 25 ZF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GENERAL DISCLOSURES MATERIAL TOPICS: ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL ECONOMIC ZF-Innolab To allow for responsible procurement practices, ZF appointed principles of the UN Global Compact, the OECD Guidelines As part of expanding its long‑term commitment to cooperaa cross‑functional Sourcing Decision Board with representafor Multinational Enterprises, the Universal Declaration of tion with universities, ZF established an innovation laboratives from Commodity Purchasing, Program Purchasing, LoHuman Rights, the UN Guiding Principles on Business and tory at the Friedrichshafen campus of the Duale Hochschule gistics, Quality, Supplier Management, Engineering, Program Human Rights and relevant conventions of the International (DHBW) Ravensburg in 2016. At the “ZF‑Innolab” facility, Management and Operations. The board enables us to ensure Labour Organization (ILO). DHBW students, under an apprenticeship contract with ZF, that along with pricing, environmental aspects, quality, techconduct research on topics such as autonomous driving and nical and logistical requirements are also considered in the The BPP are intended as guidelines that specify fundamental digital business models. The students at the “ZF‑Innolab” selection of suppliers. requirements for cooperation with our business partners. work closely together with ZF engineers from Central R&D in They address topics such as human rights, labor standards, the field of future mobility, especially for automated driving, We are determined to strengthen our sustainability-related occupational safety and health protection, environmental automated operations and new logistics solutions. activities within the supplier base. Consequently, in the sumprotection, responsible raw materials procurement, business mer of 2019 the position Head of Sustainability Management ethics and compliance. Business partners are specifically Supply Chain was created within the Materials Management expected to reject any form of slavery or forced labor as well of ZF. As a result, the new Sustainability Supply Chain deas child labor. They are also expected to respect freedom of GRI 204 PROCUREMENT PRACTICES 2016 partment started reviewing the overall approach and related association and the right to form interest groups; to provide processes as well as developing a clear roadmap. It follows fair and appropriate remuneration and working times as well GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 a systematic approach that aligns with ZF’s overall strategy: as supporting qualification of their employees. (incl. 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) improving processes within Materials Management, a new Good materials management is vitally important for customer supplier assessment and specific actions regarding focus In Germany, external service providers must sign an additional satisfaction. Only through good management we can guarantee topics such as human rights and climate neutrality. declaration of compliance to collective agreements guaranteethe high quality of our products and delivery reliability. This is ing fair wages, normal working hours and the rejection of unwhy trusting and reliable collaboration with our suppliers is a Regarding the development of our suppliers, ZF’s Supplier registered labor and tax evasion. This declaration also applies priority for ZF. Management Department further standardized processes to to subcontractors engaged by ZF and includes the provision ensure a common understanding within the organization. The that ZF may check compliance at any time. The specific requirements for suppliers result from the Adresulting Supplier Readiness Process follows the cradle-tovanced Procurement Strategy (APS 25). The APS follows and grave approach and provides clear steps towards the developA standardized process for the request and confirmation of supports the Group strategy and is based on the ZF Environment of our suppliers. Besides other aspects, the focus lies our BPP includes a tool to track the information about the mental Policy, the ZF Principles of Social Responsibility and on high quality, technical feasibility and punctual delivery. current BPP status of each supplier. Acceptance of BPP is the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact. taken into consideration in supplier award decisions and in Establishing an effective and efficient value creation chain Business Partner Principles the approval process for new suppliers. ZF reserves the right throughout the Group is the declared objective of the APS 25. All new and existing suppliers are obligated to endorse the to scrutinize business relationships and take appropriate action The strategy also pursues three subordinate goals: increasZF Business Partner Principles (BPP). The BPP represent if deviations or violations are identified. ing ROCE, total quality management and standardization. Its values that ZF recognizes, supports and communicates: systematic implementation is supported by a process which Respecting national and international laws and regulations By the end of the reporting year, the BPP were under revision. ensures that sourcing decisions are based on total cost of at the locations worldwide is seen as a minimum. The BPP The updated BPP will be published and implemented over ownership criteria. also conform to principles and conventions, such as the the course of 2020. 26 ZF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GENERAL DISCLOSURES MATERIAL TOPICS: ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL ECONOMIC Improving supply chains Risk assessment and management GRI 205 ANTI-CORRUPTION 2016 The values and standards that are important to us are not ZF has implemented a comprehensive internal risk analysis only part of the Business Partner Principles; they also define process for compliance risks. The objective is to identify, GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 supplier selection. During the approval process, ZF requires assess and counteract compliance-related risks as early and (incl. 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) potential new suppliers to submit a self-assessment on effectively as possible. Detailed information can be found in Compliance is an essential element of successful managesustainability, based on ZF’s Business Partner Principles. the ZF Annual Report. ment and good corporate governance. It supports reliable ZF uses an adapted version of the Self­-Assessment Questionand respectful dealings with customers, business partners, naire on CSR and Sustainability developed by the initiative In addition to contact opportunities in the regular course of employees and the environment. Compliance also constitutes Drive Sustainability (formerly European Automotive Working business, ZF has set up an electronic reporting system in the basis of lasting cooperation in an atmosphere of trust. Group on Supply Chain Sustainability). The advantage of German, Chinese, Brazilian Portuguese, Spanish and English. using a standardized Self­-Assessment Questionnaire for all The ZF Trustline is available to all employees and business We rise to the challenge posed by globalization. This requires participants (OEM and Tier 1) is to avoid duplication and to partners if they wish to anonymously report suspected serious law‑abiding, honest and responsible behavior on behalf of improve efficiency for the suppliers. The long‑term goal is a misconduct with regard to guidelines, regulations or laws. our employees at all levels and in all areas as the core value purchasing strategy that dispenses with procuring materials of our corporate culture. ZF communicates the relevant rules from critical sources. In 2019, a social media monitoring system was set up in proactively to its employees, for example through the Code which media are screened for negative CSR issues in our supply of Conduct (CoC) or other compliance regulations. To manage all inquiries and data regarding supplier contact, chain on a daily basis. This allows for first indications, which the existence of a product safety officer, HSE (Health, Safety then can be followed up with further due diligence measures. The Code of Conduct defines binding principles for correct, and Environment) and general company data or certificates, law‑abiding and ethical behavior. Subjects covered include ZF operates a supplier portal for all strategic and accepted GRI 204-1 adherence to laws, fair competition, human rights, anti‑corsuppliers. Proportion of spending on local suppliers ruption, business and social responsibility, product compliance, occupational safety, data protection and transparency. At the end of 2019 ZF also launched a pilot project with stra80 percent (2018: 77%) of our global purchases for nonThe Code of Conduct is a core element of the Compliance tegic suppliers for production material that aims to improve the production materials (excluding investments) in the reporting Management System (CMS) and is therefore available in more sustainability assessment of all suppliers. Questions include year are to be made locally. The local procurement of producthan 25 languages. As managers at every level are responsible Environmental Protection (ISO 14001 / EMAS), Human Rights tion materials is calculated using a key indicator based on for the compliance culture within the company, they must & Labor (SA 8000 (SIA)), Anti-bribery & Anti-corruption total spending including directed buy and internal supply. The confirm they have received the CoC and promise to follow its (ISO 37001), Health & Safety (OHSAS 18001 / ISO 45001) average over all divisions for 2019 amounted to 57 percent principles. and Supply Chain Responsibility (Directive 2014/95/EU). (2018: 54%) for production materials. This more comprehensive sustainability assessment will be extended to the wider supplier base during 2020. The overall goal is to increase transparency within the supply chain and better mitigate risks. 27 ZF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GENERAL DISCLOSURES MATERIAL TOPICS: ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL ECONOMIC Compliance regulations A primary goal of the CMS is to meet the following require• ZF developed an internal risk analysis process for Compliance and legal regulations include rules governing ments: independence and effectiveness of the Compliance compliance risks. The objective of this analysis is to anti-corruption and antitrust law. They also include the Organization, integration of compliance into business proidentify and assess, on the basis of the risk profile of ZF, correct approach to handling favors, gifts and hospitalities. cesses, transparent decision-making processes and correcompliance‑relevant risks at an early stage and to The following topics are covered by the regulations: sponding HR processes (sanctions). The pillars of the CMS counteract them. are: prevent, detect and respond. The Compliance Organiza• Rules for lawful and responsible behavior tion is set up in line with the organizational structure of the • Business partners can pose a compliance risk if their • Ban on corruption ZF Group. actions or failure to act can be attributed to ZF. All • Business partner integrity business functions of our company therefore must take • Rules on handling favors, gifts and hospitality In joint ventures where ZF is the majority shareholder, the appropriate measures – preferably before business • Correct behavior in competition ZF board representatives must ensure that either the ZF relations with a partner are initiated – to ensure that • Conflicts of interest Compliance Management System or a comparable compliance business partners are adequately assessed and instructed. • Contacting the Corporate Compliance Office and reporting management system is in place. A business partner due diligence process was established incidents in 2015. • Responsibilities, tasks and authorities of the Compliance Compliance Tools Organization • The ComplianceHelpdesk is a preventive tool for systematically clarifying and documenting general T. 08 ZF Compliance Organization ZF Compliance Management System compliance questions. ZF employees can contact the The ZF Compliance Management System (CMS) has created ComplianceHelpdesk whenever they are faced with a Prevent Detect & respond the framework for meeting the respective legal requirements compliance‑related question in their day‑to‑day business worldwide. The objective of the CMS is to ensure compliance activities. • Risk analysis • Notification with internal and external regulations. The CMS focuses on • Regulations • Investigation preventing and investigating violations of employees as well • The ZF CMS is complemented by the ZF Trustline, an • Communication • Monitoring as Business Partners in the areas of electronic notification system that employees and third • Training • Remediation & sanctioning parties can use to anonymously report suspected serious • ComplianceH elpdesk • Fraud misconduct. Such cases might include violations of • Business partner • Reputational damage competition and anti‑trust law, or cases of corruption and due diligence • Corruption/bribery conflicts of interest. • Conflicts of interest • Gifts/entertainment. 28 ZF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GENERAL DISCLOSURES MATERIAL TOPICS: ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL ECONOMIC GRI 205-1 Training opportunities Operations assessed for risks related to corruption With such a large employees base, the ZF Group relies on online training as the leading form of training employees on With regard to corruption‑related categories, all operations key compliance topics. The objective of these online courses are regularly assessed over a target period of about three is to firmly anchor compliance in employees’ consciousness years. To achieve more precise results, the risk analysis proand prevent wrongdoing. The courses convey knowledge cess is currently revised with the focus on product lines and and promote ability to act in critical situations. Target groups usage of online survey tools. can be addressed in accordance with the necessities of a particular topic. GRI 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption The roll‑out of the CoC in 2018 was supplemented by an policies and procedures online course on certain topics covered by the Code such as antitrust, business partners, conflicts of interest, financial News and the sharing of information on compliance issues integrity and controls, and raising concerns. The course raise awareness among employees and communicate values was deployed in English, German, Latin American Spanish, and expectations on employee conduct. Simplified Chinese and Brazilian Portuguese. While it was made available to all employees, for approximately 17,500 A range of communication measures ensure that complimanagement employees and the Board of Management this ance is firmly anchored within ZF’s culture. All employees, course was mandatory. The completion rate for this group including the Board of Management, have constant access was almost 87 percent. In April 2019, the company deployed to compliance topics through our corporate intranet “Zoom”, myHRSuite, which contained a global learning management the compliance intranet/blog and other channels. As a main platform. In October 2019, the Code of Conduct course was communication channel, the intranet also provides access integrated into the new platform. to necessary compliance contacts and essential documents. To ensure that compliance news reaches the management A course on Conflicts of Interest was deployed in April 2019, teams of the individual ZF locations, compliance officers and and a communication was sent by email to all employees. compliance delegates periodically update the management This course is available to all employees on myHRsuite in team regarding compliance issues, so that management staff the same languages as the Code of Conduct course. Future will pass this information on to their employees. courses on compliance topics will also be delivered to employees via the myHRSuite platform. The CoC is made available to all new hires, who sign an Employee Compliance Certification Form acknowledging receipt Training in other formats such as in-person training is provided of the Code of Conduct and accepting their responsibilities as on key topics as needed to more focused groups based on outlined by the CoC. They are also advised on how to ask quesregion, job function and risk. tions about the CoC and how to report any possible violations. 29 ZF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GENERAL DISCLOSURES MATERIAL TOPICS: ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT ENVIRONMENT GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 as well as certification standards. In the year under review, GRI 301 MATERIALS 2016 (incl. 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) the changeover to audits using the ISO 50001:2018 Energy Conserving natural resources is the fundamental principle of Management Standard was successfully completed. GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 our environmental strategy. A corresponding policy therefore (incl. 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) includes essential areas of activity such as climate protection, Management reviews are conducted twice a year, in which As raw materials become increasingly scarce and more exthe environmental impact of production, eco‑friendly product the Board of Management assesses the target achievement pensive, their efficient use is crucial. Likewise, materials must design and environmental performance improvement. It is of the sites. The Board also assesses whether the environconform to our high expectations regarding quality and safety binding for all locations. mental management system is qualified to fulfill current legal as well as environmental and social standards. See GRI 204 customer and management requirements. for more details on procurement procedures. The ZF Sustainability Program provides an overview of our environmental protection targets and actions, which is part of Following the “design for environment” principle, our Group Product‑related environmental protection begins with responthis report. Directive for Global Development & Product Evolution Process sible material selection. From the very start, during the product (GD PEP) puts particular focus on environmentally friendly development phase, we consider the total life cycle of a The global ZF environmental organization covers all areas product design. Relevant aspects must be proven by means product, including factors such as the product materials, the of the company, from each individual division to different of a checklist at various steps in the development process, utilization phase as well as disposability and recyclability. For regions, right down to the locations. The corporate environtaking into account environmentally friendly manufacturing example, by reducing the variety of materials, using consistent mental protection officer is responsible at the Group level and manufacturability, wear, serviceability and repairability, materials and ensuring they can easily be separated, we and senior environmental protection officers are appointed recyclability and environmentally sound materials. To strengthcontinually increase the recyclability of our products. at the divisional level. On plant level, the EHS officers work en carbon footprint methods in R&D processes, ZF standards on a daily basis towards securing environmental protection. are periodically revised to ensure that they comply with Regarding the Control of Prohibited & Regulated Substances The regional managers provide support for ensuring complicurrent regulations and recent approaches towards reducing our technical standard ZF 9003 applies in addition to worldwide ance in their respective regions, the implementation of ZF environmental impacts. laws and regulations. Those requirements are implemented in standards and monitoring of the environmental management our supply chain and are tracked to ensure conformity. system. ZF Climate Neutrality Strategy As climate protection has become one of the most urgent Additionally, ZF is implementing the ZF Materials Warehouse Systematic environmental management according to ISO issues of our time, ZF makes its contribution by bundling and to support our overall materials management. The rollout to 14001:2015 is the standard for all production and main destrengthening current measures in a climate strategy: Our goal the business units will be finalized in the second quarter of velopment locations. In the ZF Group, a total of 246 certifiis to become climate-neutral – from Scope 1 to Scope 3 – not 2020. The process relies upon screening and classification of cates were issued up to 2019. These external expert audits later than 2040 and already halve our emissions from producmaterials into non-approved, approved and preferred materials, confirm that the participating locations conform to current tion by 2030 compared to 2018. In doing so, the company is according to conformity with set requirements. environmental, occupational health and safety legislation supporting the goals of the Paris Climate Agreement, which aims to limit global warming to 1.5 degrees. See GRI 305 for detailed information. 30 ZF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GENERAL DISCLOSURES MATERIAL TOPICS: ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT Besides material approval, the ZF Material warehouse enables GRI 301-2 GRI 302 ENERGY 2016 material selection and material change. Early analysis of the Recycled input materials used materials not only ensures compliance with technical stanGRI 103: Management Approach 2016 dards and country specific laws but also entails the possibility ZF frequently uses recycled materials in its production pro(incl. 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) of controlling several material variants. At the same time, the cesses. Steel and aluminum constitute the highest weight Managing energy is a top priority for an industrial company effort for supplier management and material provision is limshare of recycled materials ZF uses. This includes steel from such as ZF and a core element within the ZF EHS manageited to a manageable degree. In view of an increasing number scrap steel and aluminum from scrap aluminum. ment system. By this means, all locations regularly evaluate of localization projects, this prevents an unmanageably high their energy profiles and energetic topics. This involves number of materials in the portfolio. Furthermore, ZF channels a high percentage of waste back conducting audits, identifying potential for improvement into the material cycle via external recycling procedures, and defining actions and measures for improving energy GRI 301-1 especially scrap metal and metal chips, waste oil, paper and efficiency and consumption reduction. In addition to ZF EHS Materials used by weight or volume cardboard, wood and demolition waste. As a result of their management, all German and European locations are audited material composition, ZF products make a disproportionately externally on a regular basis. The commodities steel and aluminum have the largest conhigh contribution to meeting the recycling quotas as stipusumption share in the purchasing portfolio. The ZF Group lated in the EU End‑of‑Life Vehicle Directive. As an integral part of the energy management system, locapurchases approximately 293,627 tons of aluminum and tions define specific targets locally on an annual basis to 2,923,224 tons of steel (including iron cast) annually. In recent years ZF has systematically and significantly increased increase energy efficiency and take appropriate action. Our using processed recycled oils instead of cooling lubricants. target regarding energy is to reduce energy consumption by ZF purchases not only raw materials but also a large number The use of secondary raffinates reduced the use of primary 10 percent relative to sales by 2020 based on the ZF Group of assembled parts and products that already consist of a raw materials and CO₂ emissions in upstream processes by performance of 2017. Achievement of our targets is monimixture of different materials. Therefore, figures on specific 132 tons annually. tored and controlled through key performance indicators materials are not readily available. A standard ZF product, the within the environmental and energy management system 8HP70 8‑speed automatic transmission, comprises approxiGRI 301-3 in conformity with ISO 14001 and ISO 50001. ZF is currently mately 58% steel and 25% aluminum. The rest is accounted Reclaimed products and their packaging materials elaborating updated targets for the period after 2020, especialfor by lubricating oil (7%), silicon (3%), rubber and plastics ly in the context of our new ZF Climate Neutrality Strategy. The (2.2%) and copper (1.5%) as well as other materials, alloys Concerning products, ZF has been committed for decades process includes shifting from a specific energy target related and solvents in extremely small quantities. ZF’s E-Axle conto remanufacturing procedures and has therefore estabto sales to an absolute reduction target. sists of around 63% steel and iron, 23% aluminum and 9% lished a global reclaiming system. Various parts like torque copper or copper alloy respectively. The remainder comprises converters, ConAct® and dual‑mass flywheels are being The ISO 50001 Corporate Energy Management scheme rubber and plastics (3%), lubricants (0.7%) as well as ceramremanufactured for industrial use. Remanufacturing reduces covered 62 locations in 2019 (2018: 61); 6 locations gained ics and glass (0.15%), and other materials in extremely small ZF’s demand for raw materials by up to 90 percent while single‑site certification according to ISO 50001. Further quantities.GRI 301-2 saving about 90 percent in energy compared to manufacturEuropean locations have conducted external audits to fulfill ing a new product. In 2019, our site in Bielefeld (Germany) the European Energy Efficiency Directive (EED) on the basis remanufactured 143,993 clutch pressure plates, 135,644 of country-specific options such as EN 16247 or ESOS (UK). clutch disks, 46,293 ConAct®, 5,033 torque convertors and 1,322 dual-mass flywheels. Moreover, the locations in Detailed energy programs help the locations to achieve their Frydlant (Czech Republic) and Wrexham (UK) remanufactured targets. The core elements are behavioral changes, energy 779,303 brake calipers from passenger cars. Frydlant also supply management, energy data management, and organizaremanufactured 27,184 steering systems, 31,680 pumps tional and technical energy efficiency programs. and 3,812 brakes for trucks. 31 ZF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GENERAL DISCLOSURES MATERIAL TOPICS: ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT Campaigns to increase efficiency and reduce energy conT. 11 Absolute energy consumption 2017-2019 sumption are planned and implemented at all locations T. 09 Energy comsumption 2019 (2018) (2017) depending on the local consumption footprint and target in percent in gigawatt-hours 2019 2018 2017 achievement. These measures, in conjunction with the energy management system, considerably improve energy Electricity 2,606 2,696 2,641 6 (6) (6) efficiency worldwide. Others Natural gas 1,177 1,192 1,204 GRI 302-1 Other1 249 262 258 Energy consumption within the organization 29 (29) (28) 2019 65 (65) (66) Total 4,032 4,150 4,103 Natural Gas (2018) Electricity Energy is mainly used for production processes, especially (2017) 1 Oil, district heating, liquid gas, acetylene heat treatment, surface treatment and compressed air. Another significant field of energy use is associated with building and infrastructure management, for example heating, lighting, air conditioning and ventilation. Furthermore, at at six locations GRI 302-2 natural gas and at one location methane is used in combined Energy consumption outside of the organization heat and power plants to generate electricity and heat for our own facilities. Due to the huge variety of production processes In 2019, ZF conducted at Group level a screening of Scope used within the ZF Group, the share of energy use differs T. 10 Energy consumption 2017-2019 3 emissions for the first time and reported necessary data in greatly between locations. the CDP Climate Change Questionnaire 2019. As a result, the in percent of absolute scoring, which had been at “Awareness C“ level in the past, Approximately 65 percent of the energy consumed at ZF electricity consumption 2019 2018 2017 improved to a “Management B-” level for the first time. See comes from purchased electricity. Energy procurement and GRI 302-5 for more information. Renewables 10 8.3 2 consumption is therefore a major topic, especially at the ZF production locations. While the major share of energy GRI 302-3 consumption comes from electricity, natural gas accounts Energy intensity for 29 percent. It is mainly used for heating and production Compared to the previous year absolute energy consumption processes and partially in on‑site combined heat and power decreased by 2.9 percent, which equals to minus 118 GWh. ZF reduced its energy intensity, measured in MWh per € mil(CHP) plants. The remaining six percent comprise energy This was mainly achieved through over 230 energy efficiency lion sales volume, compared to the year 2017 by 0,6 percent. from oil, district heating, liquid gas, acetylene and biogas. projects, which account for a total decrease of 78 GWh. So Compared to the previous year the KPI decreased by 2.5 percent While the share of renewable energy supply is still low it the documented energy efficiency project led to a reduction of which is mainly caused by waker business performance and increased in 2019 to 10 percent of purchased electricity; 1.9 percent of the total energy consumption. See GRI 302-4 reduction in sales. This development resulted mainly from a (2018: 8.3%). Approximately 20 percent of the electricity for more information. weaker business performance in the overall automotive industry. consumption involves CO₂ reduced emission factors due to Energy consumption could not be reduced to the same extent special purchasing contracts or on-site production in Comas business decreased. In total, energy consumption was bined Heat and Power Plants (CHP). reduced by 118 GWh (-2.9%), of which 78 GWh (-1,9%) were documented to be achieved by energy efficiency projects. Moreover, a decrease of about 40 GWh is related to decreased business activities. 32 ZF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GENERAL DISCLOSURES MATERIAL TOPICS: ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT T. 12 Specific energy consumption 2017-2019 In order to further reduce energy consumption for heat its guiding principle “See – Think – Act”. The company’s generation, we are continuously increasing heat recovery product and technology planning follows market and product in megawatt-hours per from industrial and washing processes. roadmaps, which are constantly updated. € million sales volume 2019 2018 2017¹ The team from Gliwice (Poland) received a ZF Excellence To achieve current and future climate goals and to eliminate Electricity 54.6 53.4 54.7 Award for developing an ecological way of heating municipal particulates, CO₂ and noise in cities, public transport systems Natural Gas 24.6 23.6 24.9 water. This way, not only was gas consumption reduced, but have to be rethought. ZF’s AxTrax AVE electric portal axle the working environment were also improved. The idea is as makes it easier for bus manufacturers and public transport Others1 5.2 5.2 5.3 simple as it is smart: Large temperature fluctuations during authorities to switch over to quiet, zero local emission drives. Total 84.4 82.2 84.9 the sealing process was caused by evaporation from open This driven axle can be operated not only entirely electrically tanks. Firstly, the team mounted flaps on the sealing tank of by battery or overhead lines, but also in hybrid or fuel cell 1 Oil, district heating, liquid gas, acetylene the anodizing line to reduce water consumption and humidity. configurations. The AxTrax AVE electric portal axle was honSecondly, they installed a heat exchanger and a boiler, where ored with the 2019 EBUS Award in the category “Drives for gas is used to heat water and for eloxation. This way, the Battery Buses”, as it stands out due to its powerful, compact waste heat from the compressors could be used to heat the design and its flexible energy source configuration options. GRI 302-4 water, which reduced gas consumption by 27 percent. The award is sponsored by the Forum für Verkehr und LogisReduction of energy consumption tik e.V., an association that promotes electromobility of buses Our team in Marysville (USA) identified an opportunity for in public transport. Special programs and actions at site level have brought gas savings because the generator stack was burning off about a constant improvement in energy efficiency. In 2019, large amounts endothermic gas. By realizing control improveIn 2019, ZF also demonstrated that plug-in hybrids (PHEV) ZF implemented more than 230 projects to reduce energy ments at the endothermic generator and carburizing furnace can be considered as true electric vehicles: Solely on electriconsumption and increase energy efficiency. These were the location saved 6.5 GWh of gas which led to a reduction cal power, the ZF EVplus concept vehicle runs more than implemented mainly in the areas of plant engineering, proof more than 1,300 tons of CO₂ emissions. 100 kilometers under real-life conditions. This is a sufficient cess optimization and building technology. In 2019 energy range for most drivers to cover their commuting distances consumption was reduced with several programs with a Within the huge variety of measures taken, 230 projects and daily drives – on just one battery charge. The EVplus focus on regional energy workshops, rollout of a metering werereported to save approximately 78 GWh in 2019. This is concept vehicle is based on a volume production passenger concept and energy basics as well as reduction projects aiming enough energy to supply more than 19,400 households with car with an 8-speed plug-in hybrid transmission from ZF. at, for example, compressed air. 4,000 kWh/a on average. As a worldwide leader in marine propulsion systems, supply­ As part of the Energy Basics rollout, each site is expected GRI 302-5 ing systems and components for all types of ships, ZF Marine to establish and maintain standards to improve employee Reductions in energy requirements of products offers a range of “hybrid‑ready” transmissions to address the awareness and behavioral changes as well as, for example, and services market needs. Our systems can be integrated into all types demand management or peak load management. For each of fast craft, from coast guard vessels to fast offshore supply aspect a guidance document was added to the ZF EHS As a technology and cost leader, ZF aims to meet the vessels. The resulting environmental protection extends to Management System. In the field of compressed air, an demands of the mobility megatrends of tomorrow, such as fuel savings, lower CO₂ emissions and noise reduction. ZF initiative from Purchasing Spare Parts, Machine Inventory and efficiency, integrated safety and automated driving. Following has also combined this transmission with our CeTrax, an elecEHS aimed at standardizing technology; this allowed for an our Vision Zero, ZF products are intended to make a strong tric drive. The scope of supply can be further expanded with energy-optimized compressed air management. contribution to reducing emissions and accidents to zero. input shafts, fixed-pitch propellers and controls produced by Accordingly, the Group has set a clear technology focus with 33 ZF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GENERAL DISCLOSURES MATERIAL TOPICS: ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT ZF. Hybrid and purely electric, emission-reduced and climateBesides various projects for reducing overall consumption, ZF spread to other regions. Resource scarcity results in the need neutral ferries powered with ZF technology already operate in makes use of available water treatment and reuse technolofor increased investment or expenses to cover the technical Tasmania, Sweden and Switzerland. gies to reduce freshwater consumption. modernization of production equipment. GRI 303-3 T. 13 Absolute water consumption 2017-2019 Water recycled and reused GRI 303 WATER 2016 ZF makes full use of all technical methods for saving water in million cubic meters 2019 2018 2017 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 in production processes, for example cascade rinsing sys(incl. 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) Ground and surface water 6,408 7,421 6,694 tems for cleaning processes or process water recycling. The Water is used at ZF locations for production, e.g. for surface significantly increased amount of water recycled or reused Municipal water 3,824 4,016 4,190 treatment processes, washing, rinsing and cleaning, as a (absolute and specific) bears out the positive impact of our coolant, or for non‑production purposes such as sanitary water, Rainwater 16 15 12 efforts. We will initiate further projects in 2020. drinking water, in the canteen or during construction projects. Total 10,248 11,452 10,896 At our site in Pamplona (Spain), oil components are now In 2019, all sites were assessed for their water risk using the separated out of emulsions. The recovered oil can be delivWWF Water Risk Filter. Currently none of our sites is located ered back to a refinery and water can be used again for the in an area that is rated as water-scarce. Nevertheless, we T. 14 Specific water consumption 2017-2019 preparation of cooling lubricant. This way, the water savings regard the water consumption of all our sites for production amount to 1,500 m³ annually. as a major environmental issue and the use of freshwater in cubic meters per could become increasingly restricted in the future. Therefore, € million sales volume 2019 2018 2017 the ZF water management objective goes beyond reducing Ground and surface water 134.1 148.1 140.4 T. 15 A  bsolute water recycled/reused consumption in risk areas: We want to constantly reduce 20172019 specific water consumption throughout the Group. The target Municipal water 80.1 80.2 87.9 is therefore part of our environmental objectives for 2018 to Rainwater 0.3 0.3 0.3 in cubic meters 2019 2018 2017 2020. All sources of water are considered. Location‑specific projects focus on the reuse of water as well as on conserving Total 214.5 228.6 228.6 Recycled / -reused 88,872 90,349 75,721 water from all water. Progress is monitored and managed in line with our environmental management system at the individual locations and at Group level. In 2020 the water risk approach will be extended to locations in water-stressed areas. GRI 303-2 T. 16 S  pecific water recycled/reused Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal 2017-2019 GRI 303-1 of water Water withdrawal by source in cubic meters per Some of our production locations, e.g. in Brazil and Mexico, € million sales volume 2019 2018 2017 The water supply at ZF locations is adapted to local circumare in so‑called “water‑stressed areas”. Permits for water Recycled/reused 1.86 1.81 1.59 stances and mainly comes from municipal sources. At some withdrawal for production are occasionally restricted in these locations water from rivers or groundwater is used for cooling areas. If water scarcity persists, the situation could worsen or processes without any chemical change. Over the last year, the absolute consumption decreased by 6 percent. 34 ZF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GENERAL DISCLOSURES MATERIAL TOPICS: ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT GRI 305 EMISSIONS 2016 In addition to CO₂ emissions, ZF will also manage emissions A new tender is currently being issued for local freight transsuch as methane and various hydrocarbons. These often port at the Friedrichshafen site. The shift to alternative means GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 do not occur in as large quantities as CO₂ but are much of transport aims at the use of low-emission transport and (incl. 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) more effective in the atmosphere. We are therefore initially alternative drive technologies as well as the selection of suitFighting climate change and dealing with its consequences concentrating on our locations, including all production, adable vehicles for the respective applications (e.g. gas trucks, is one of the most urgent challenges at our present time. As ministrative and research facilities, because this is where we and later also hybrid vehicles and e-vehicles). substantial action is needed, carmakers and their suppliers have the greatest influence in bringing about the change we are called upon to make their contribution. need. Reducing emissions at the sites extends to all Scope In addition, the use of sustainable logistics service providers 1+2 emissions, which include emissions caused by our own is to be reinforced. To this end, a concept takes into account The reduction of emissions resulting from energy consumppower plants and emergency power generators or those that the emission evaluation in the award process to external tion at production facilities is regulated through our environarise from the use of purchased electricity or company vehicles. companies as well as the evaluation of sustainability aspects mental and energy management system. The target here is of service providers used. to reduce CO₂ emissions by 10 percent relative to sales by The most challenging part is to achieve climate neutrality 2020, based on 2017 including direct and indirect emissions along the value chain. That means for the entire climate balGRI 305-1 caused by ZF operations. Our environmental targets are curance, including all pre-products and the associated transport Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions rently being revised. routes, but also for the product, the vehicle itself, and its use and disposal. Since many of these sources are not directly Direct emissions include emissions from energy consumed In 2017, the calculation of Scope 1+2 emissions was based under the control of ZF (Scope 3 emissions), success in this at the sites, including natural gas, and fuels such as diesel, on the VDA emission factors from 2015, while the calculaarea can only be achieved and with greater effort. Neverthegasoline, biogas, aceeylene or liquid gas. tion of the 2018 and 2019 emissions used the revised VDA less, these emissions will also be reduced. For this purpose, emission factors from 2017. ZF has been annually reporting in the reporting year we compiled a first screening of Scope 3 Absolute direct (Scope 1) CO₂ emissions fell by about 1.7 climate data within the CDP reporting scheme since 2016. emissions as the basis for a Corporate Carbon Footprint and percent compared to the previous year from 266,000 tons Data include all GHGs allocated by types (CO₂, methan, ...) to identify the materiality of relevant categories. in 2018 to 262,000 tons in 2019. The reduction in energy and per countries where we are operating. In 2019, ZF achieved consumption did not lead to the same reduction in CO₂ the scoring level “Management B-”. Supply Chain Program emissions. This is because absolute energy consumption Regarding procurement-related emissions, ZF’s strategy is to decreased mainly in regions with lower emission factors ZF Climate Neutrality Strategy buy where the supplied materials or components are needed but increased in regions with higher emission factors, e.g. As climate protection has become one of the most urgent if possible. It therefore follows the “local for local” principle, Eastern Europe and Asia Pacific. issues of our time, ZF makes its contribution by bundling and which helps to avoid the impacts of transportation. As a strengthening current measures in a climate strategy: Our consequence, ZF decided to be responsible for all transport goal is to become climate-neutral – from Scope 1 to Scope carried out from suppliers to ZF plants. T. 17 Absolute CO₂ emissions 2017-2019 3 – not later than 2040 and already halve our emissions from production by 2030 compared to 2018. In doing so, the comFor us, this is the best way to ensure that transportation is in thousand tons 2019 2018 2017 pany is supporting the goals of the Paris Climate Agreement, organized efficiently and that environmental factors are systemwhich aims to limit global warming to 1.5 degrees. Setting atically taken into account. As part of our freight manageScope 1 262 266 266 an absolute long-term target allows for the identification of a ment, we are making a concerted effort to pool transport and Scope 2 1,323 1,361 1,334 clear reduction path. increase the full truck load (FTL) quota to avoid unnecessary transport. Total 1,585 1,627 1,600 35 ZF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GENERAL DISCLOSURES MATERIAL TOPICS: ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT GRI 305-2 only purchasing goods and services, but also transportation. Although ZF reduced absolute CO₂ emissions, the KPI CO₂ Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions See GRI 302-5 for more information on emissions from emissions related to sales increased and ZF is moving away products and services. from the 2020 target. Compared to 2017 the KPI increased Absolute indirect CO₂ (Scope 2)emissions fell by about 2.8 by 0.1% which is mainly caused by weaker business perpercent compared to the previous year from 1,1361,000 tons In 2019, all relevant global domain functions worked together formance and reduction in sales. CO₂ reductions is mainly in 2018 to 1,323,000 tons in 2019. Indirect emissions include to conduct a comprehensive initial screening of ZF’s Scope 3 reached due to reduction of energy consumption. In total emissions from purchased electricity and all kinds of district carbon footprint. During the screening in alignment with the CO₂ emssions were reduced by 42 thousand tons, thereof heat. Emission profiles of purchased energies are part of the WRI/WBCSD GHG Protocol two kinds of material emissions 37 thousand tons were documented to be achieved by more evaluation in the procurement process. In the reporting year, were identified: than 230 energy efficiency projects. 35 locations (in Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Germany, Mexico and Spain) had special contracts to purchase green energy instead of standard electricity. To calculate these emissions Material for ZF as main source Material for ZF due to T. 18 Specific CO₂ emissions 2017-2019 specific factors of each site were used instead of the VDA of Scope 3 emissions stakeholder expectations emissions factors. For details see GRI 305-5. Category 1: Purchased goods and Category 2: Capital goods in tons per services € million sales volume 2019 2018 2017 GRI 305-3 Category 11: Use of sold products Category 4+9: Upstream and Scope 1 5.5 5.3 5.5 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions downstream transport Scope 2 27.7 27.0 27.6 Nevertheless, the majority of emissions in our value chain are Category 6: Business travel Total 33.2 32.3 33.1 generated during the utilization phase of our products. This is why, as part of our emission reduction efforts, we are focusing Category 7: Employee commuting on developing products that contribute to cutting vehicle emissions. Therefore, the revised environmental objectives from 2018 to 2020 support our Vision Zero: aiming for CO₂ GRI 305-4 GRI 305-5 reduction in the development of new products through carbon GHG emissions intensity Reduction of GHG emissions footprint and lifecycle assessments. The GHG emissions intensity results directly from the energy ZF is working on continuously reducing GHG emissions. Our approach for Scope 3 emissions focuses on the supplies intensity and the footprint of each country where energy is Improvements result from numerous initiatives and projects and suppliers with the highest CO₂ emission levels in the purchased and used. In addition, the production footprint is to increase efficiency and raise awareness at a local level. life cycle perspective. Scope 3 emissions are not yet part of strongly influenced by customer needs as well as national All projects for reducing energy consumption or increasing this report, but ZF is working on Scope 3 emissions and will production and purchasing requirements. energy efficiency also lead to a reduction in emissions. work on specific measures in the near future regarding not Overall, CO₂ emissions were reduced by 2,6 percent or Over 230 energy efficiency projects were implemented at ZF 42 thousand tons, mainly due to the reduction of energy locations around the world. These were mainly in the areas of consumption by 2,9 percent compared to the previous year. plant engineering, process optimization and building technol36 ZF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GENERAL DISCLOSURES MATERIAL TOPICS: ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT ogy. As in previous years, ZF expanded photovoltaic systems sions from these processes. Wherever water‑based paints GRI 306 EFFLUENTS AND WASTE 2016 and installed a new PV plant in Rayong (Thailand) in 2019. In cannot be used for reasons of product quality, the captured addition, PV systems are currently being planned at locations exhaust flows from these facilities are technically treated to GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 in Schweinfurt and Auerbach, Germany, or in Chennai, India. minimize VOC emissions. (incl. 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) Our environmental management system aims at continually The location Bielefeld (Germany) has been purchasing Another approach to improving environmental performance reducing the volume of wastewater and waste. In the year 100 percent of its electricity from renewables since 2018. is to change air filters from active carbon adsorption to under report, there were no particular external influences or A total of 35 locations in Spain, Austria, Brazil, Belgium, thermal oxidation. This way, solvents can be oxidized effectrends impacting our effluents or waste volumes. Mexico and Germany purchased electricity from renewables tively and solid particles extracted. Further potential ways to or with reduced CO₂ emissions. reduce VOCs in paint processes are being evaluated in certain Wastewater at ZF is usually discharged into the public sewer products from the off‑highway segment, bearing in mind the system and treated at local wastewater treatment plants Because realization of efficiency measures at various fields specific high corrosion resistance and resistance to mechaniconnected to the system. Direct drainage into surface water of technology, ZF was able to reduce CO₂ emissions by 42 cal stress requirements. only occurs at a few locations lacking public infrastructure. thousand tons in the previous year. For details on projects In these cases, water is drained only if approved by the see GRI 302‑4. authorities and is treated in conformity with state‑of‑the‑art T. 19 Absolute VOC, NOX and SOX emissions technology. Threshold values are strictly monitored here. GRI 305-6 2017-2019 ZF is committed to installing water‑saving equipment that Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) exceeds these statutory requirements. The amount of waste for disposal relative to sales of the current year is to be lower in tons 2019 2018 2017 ZF locations worldwide manage their ODS emissions at local than for the previous year. level in line with our environmental management system and VOC 765 1,123 1.014 according to local legal requirements. At our locations, ODSs ZF is also constantly working towards decreasing the volume SOX 3,875 2,984 4,068 are relevant to air conditioning processes and equipment. To of waste sent for disposal and hazardous waste, by altering ensure appropriate handling they engage qualified contractors NOX 2,384 2,224 2,675 processes, optimizing procedures and substituting hazardous for maintenance and service of the coolant equipment. substances in operations. Another focus lies on minimizing landfilling of hazardous waste. The most relevant ODSs in operation processes are volatile organic compounds (VOC), mainly used in surface treatment T. 20 S pecific VOC, NOX and SOX emissions Relevant processes at ZF with a potential risk for the release processes. For detailed absolute and specific emissions of 2017-2019 of hazardous substances are essentially surface treatment, solvents (VOCs) see GRI 305-7. machining with metal working fluids and painting. Preventive in kilograms per technical measures in place at the locations ensure that hazGRI 305-7 € million sales volume 2019 2018 2017 ardous substances cannot spill into the ground and endanger Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulphur oxides (SOX), and the groundwater, even in the event of a potential release reVOC 16 22 21 other significant air emissions sulting from a breakdown. A Group‑wide reporting obligation SOX 81 60 85 has been introduced to cover the eventuality of a release. A major percentage of ZF’s VOC emissions originate from NOX 50 44 56 large painting and degreasing facilities. Wherever possible, Collecting data of pollutant loads has not proved to be effecwe are continuing the transition to water‑based paints and tive since our locations have a wide range of different pollutaqueous degreasing procedures so as to reduce VOC emisants and threshold values. The most common pollutant loads are salts and metals. 37 ZF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GENERAL DISCLOSURES MATERIAL TOPICS: ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT GRI 306-1 T. 22 Specific wastewater 2017-2019 • reducing the number of trees harvested to produce Water discharge by quality and destination packaging supplies in cubic meters per The total and specific volumes of wastewater at ZF locations € million sales volume 2019 2018 2017 • reduction in waste discarded – less waste going to decreased. While a slight change was recorded for sanitary landfills Sanitary wastewater 45 45 31 wastewater, lower treated and untreaed process wastewater volumes contributed most to the overall decrease of wasteTreated process wastewater 24 25 30 • reduction in deliveries and thus lower emissions due water. to the extra space Untreated process wastewater 118 134 128 Using water treatment technologies, ZF reduces not only freshwater consumption, but also effluents. The production Total 187 204 189 T. 23 Absolute waste 2017-2019 process then uses the recycled water for washing, rinsing and cleaning operations and for the application of cooling in tons 2019 2018 2017 lubricants. GRI 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Recycled non-hazardous 512,735 515,176 508,053 Recycled hazardous 33,458 38,208 34,856 T. 21 Absolute wastewater 2017-2019 While the total amount of waste decreased by 2 percent, the specific amount of waste increased by 2 percent in 2019 comTotal recycled 546,193 553,384 543,190 pared to the previous year. in million cubic meters 2019 2018 2017 Disposal non-hazardous 27,824 28,710 35,436 Sanitary wastewater 2.161 2.2661 1.483 We initiated several projects worldwide to avoid waste or Disposal hazardous 29,650 37,250 35,772 recycle waste better in the future. For example, our location Treated process wastewater 1.161 1.252 1.411 Total disposal 57,474 65,960 71,208 in Sorocaba (Brazil) started separating pallets for reuse and Untreated process shipment to our Itu site, thus optimizing truck space that is Total 603,667 619,344 614,398 wastewater 5.658 6.722 6.104 left in the freight to send parts to the aftermarket. This separation enabled an average of 300 pallets per month to be Total 8.980 10.240 8.998 reused. Besides saving trees, optimized freight space reduces 1 Due to new environmental reporting requirements for the Active & CO₂ emissions. Passive Safety Technology Division, the combined KPIs for raw water at some locations of ZF in 2017 were not yet consistent At our location in Lebanon (USA) all worm and valve components were shipped to our customers in cardboard containers with wood and pallets. Based on calculations from the Department of Forestry, 658 trees are required to produce packaging just for worm and valve demand. By replacing the cardboard and pallets with a returnable solution for safe transport to the customer, three environmental benefits were achieved: 38 ZF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GENERAL DISCLOSURES MATERIAL TOPICS: ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT T. 24 Specific waste 2017-2019 GRI 307 ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE 2016 Capacity building We set up the ZF Supplier Academy to create a strategic coin tons per GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 operation and qualification platform in order to promote and € million sales volume 2019 2018 2017 (incl. 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) support cooperation with our production material suppliers. We continue to operate responsibly as a business and a ZF suppliers have the opportunity to take part in seminars Recycled non-hazardous 10.73 10.28 10.65 manufacturer of ZF products by constantly striving to comply held in their regions. Participation provides suppliers with an Recycled hazardous 0.7 0.76 0.73 globally with legal requirements and internal standards. in-depth insight into ZF requirements, standards, guidelines and procedures so that they can subsequently apply these Total recycled 11.43 11.05 11.39 In the context of environmental management, compliance effectively at their companies. Disposal non-hazardous 0.58 0.57 0.74 is a core issue. Due to various local requirements, legal developments are pursued and evaluated and – if necessary GRI 308-1 Disposal hazardous 0.62 0.74 0.75 – measures implemented at all locations and levels of the New suppliers that were screened using Total disposal 1.2 1.32 1.49 ZF Group. Processes and events that are relevant to complienvironmental criteria ance must be reported. Total 12.63 12.37 12.88 In the reporting year, all new ZF suppliers underwent selfGRI 307-1 assessment following sustainability criteria. No indications of Non-compliance with environmental laws infringements of our principles of environmental protection, GRI 306-3 and regulations human rights, labor practices, forced labor, child labor or Significant spills freedom of association were identified. ZF was involved in over 56 remediation projects, whose In 2019, as in the years before, no significant spills with causes date back at least a decade. The processing of these GRI 308-2 impact on the environment were reported. projects is carried out jointly with the relevant local authoriNegative environmental impacts in the supply chain ties. The costs for these projects was in excess of €7.4 miland actions taken GRI 306-4 lion. Furthermore, no major violations were reported in 2019. Transport of hazardous waste China continues to introduce stricter regulations and related measures with regard to violation of environmental laws and ZF does not export hazardous waste from one country to regulations. ZF considered these in updating EHS requireanother. Our waste management is organized locally. GRI 308 SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ments for the approval process of new suppliers in China. ASSESSMENT 2016 For existing suppliers with potential environmental risks, the GRI 306-5 Purchasing and Supplier Management team is undertaking Water bodies affected by water discharges GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 preventive actions. and/or runoff (incl. 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) When selecting suppliers, ZF carefully reviews their environNo bodies of water were significantly affected by wastemental management. Furthermore, product-related environwater drainage. mental protection elements are addressed in the Supplier Quality Directive ( QD 83). The directive also aims at subsuppliers and includes aspects such as REACH, logistics and packaging specification. See GRI 204 for more details on the management approach for procurement, supplier standards and assessment. 39 ZF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GENERAL DISCLOSURES MATERIAL TOPICS: ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL SOCIAL SOCIAL GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 • Innovation Approach: We develop pioneering products and GRI 401 EMPLOYMENT 2016 (incl. 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) technologies that help us achieve our strategic goals – and As part of the changing market environment, ZF is respondare financially rewarding. Our employees and business units GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 ing to megatrends, strong growth in the Asia-Pacific region alike all strive to develop innovative and creative solutions. (incl. 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) and North America, technological and demographic change, We think like entrepreneurs. This also means we take risks Responsible, supportive and fair – that’s the kind of employer and worldwide population growth. At the same time, highly and learn from our successes and failures. ZF aims to be. We want to create a corporate culture that qualified personnel are key to the company’s long-term success. strengthens collaboration, trust and entrepreneurship. And Therefore, attracting and systematically further developing • Customer Focus: We win over our customers with our we are convinced that this approach also leads to better personnel is one of ZF’s major challenges. This is why ZF is quality and our passion, offering them clear added value. financial results. We provide support and make offers, but at positioning itself as a globally attractive employer. This applies to internal and external customers alike. the same time ask for our employees’ dedication and comAt the same time, we always aim to be profitable – and act mitment. We want to create a work environment that rewards Preparing for future challenges accordingly, in every part of our organization. high performance and team work. Fairness, as we see it, Our Management System (ZF MS) was created to provide provides benefits for employees and employer alike. both theoretical guidance and practical instruction for effec• Commitment to People: We support and encourage tive cooperation. It aims at shaping our way of working in our employees in the fulfillment of their duties and The transformation in the automotive industry as well as the terms of speed, simplicity and target focus. As core elements responsibilities. In return, we expect commitment and implementation of the corporate strategy “Next Generation of the ZF MS, the four equally important principles “Innovaperformance. We provide constructive feedback and foster Mobility” requires a high level of commitment from the emtion Approach”, “Customer Focus”, Commitment to People” a culture of trust. ployees in the company and the willingness to adapt to new and “Result Orientation” form the ZF Charter. These principles developments. To ensure that they can orient themselves provide direction and guidance to ZF employees regarding • Result Orientation: We set ourselves challenging goals clearly in this changing environment, we have developed expected behavior and mindset. They also define what is imand measure what we achieve. We deliver as promised, a central roadmap for the Group that brings together all portant to us, how we do business and what makes us special: and value agility. By finding the right balance between strategically relevant internal initiatives of the Group and links quality and speed, we ensure that we succeed in what them to concrete sets of measures such as “Agile@ZF” or we set out to do. “smarter@work”. This central roadmap is embedded in a broad personnel development landscape and will help us to firmly establish ourselves among the most attractive engineering employers worldwide in the coming years. We want our employees to actively shape the future of mobility. We strive for a balanced gender ratio, promote an international workforce, seek a broad spectrum of experience and expertise, and must be well prepared for demographic change. 40 ZF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GENERAL DISCLOSURES MATERIAL TOPICS: ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL SOCIAL GRI 401-1 GRI 401-2 GRI 402 LABOR/MANAGEMENT RELATIONS New employee hires and employee turnover Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not 2016 provided to temporary or part-time employees In Germany alone, ZF hires approximately 600 new apprenGRI 103: Management Approach 2016 tices per year. As the implementation process of new HR ZF employees with part‑time, full‑time, permanent or tem(incl. 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) software tools has not yet been completed, other parameters porary employment contracts are provided access to the The common interest of employees, employee representatives are currently not reported on for the Group but reporting is same benefit programs. Health and insurance benefits play a and company management is to sustain our international envisaged for our next sustainability report. central role in ZF’s offering to employees. Of course, benefits competitiveness and achieve sustainable commercial sucvary according to local standards, regulations and market cess. Confronting the challenges of globalization, we strive practice. Benefit programs for contractors and agency temps for collaboration at all levels based on mutual respect. T. 04 Employee turnover for 2017-2019 are treated according to the type of contractual engagement with ZF and according to local regulations. A trusting cooperation under the Works Constitution Act is a fundamental factor in our corporate culture. This applies to all as percent of headcount 2019 2018 2017 Provisions for pensions are set up for obligations from vested employee representative committees such as the individual Europe 2.51 4.75 4.6 benefits and current pensions for entitled current and former works councils and committees, including the General Works employees of the consolidated ZF Group and their surviving Council, the Group Works Council and the European Works North America 31.92 37.93 35.4 dependents. For details on the provisions for pensions see Council as well as the individual contact persons on the South America 1.37 2.59 2.3 GRI 201-3. employer’s side. Asia-Pacific¹ 5.41 14.74 15.3 GRI 401-3 GRI 402-1 India¹ 7.09 0.73 Parental leave Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes Africa 0.69 1.50 1.7 At the end of December 2019, a total of 490 employees took All legal obligations are respected. Employee and employer Total 10.12 13.91 13.3 parental leave (up to three years) in Germany; of this number, representatives regularly interact in an atmosphere of trust. 124 were male and 366 female. 564 female and 1626 male Employee representatives are therefore comprehensively 1 As of 2018, India is not listed as part of Asia‑Pacific but as a separate region employees took parental leave for a short period (up to one informed in a timely manner about changes in the company. year) in 2019. Using parental leave for a short period, in most cases two months, is very popular among parents. Fundamental questions concerning the company’s development are discussed in communications and at meetings. The discontinuation and relocation of companies or sub‑units, investments and other changes to the organization are significant topics of discussion. 41 ZF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GENERAL DISCLOSURES MATERIAL TOPICS: ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL SOCIAL GRI 403 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND to build Safety Leadership and engage employees in the ability of potential harm, applying methods similar to failure SAFETY 2016 prevention of work‑related injuries and illnesses. They form mode and effects analysis (FMEA). Workstations and all the basis for the world‑class performance and the safety related activities, for example, are subject to these assessGRI 103: Management Approach 2016 culture that we are striving for. ments. On the basis of the results, preventive measures are (incl. 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) defined and implemented – applying the hierarchy of controls, Our employees’ safety, health and well‑being are core values Organizational structure which means first endeavoring to eliminate or substitute at ZF. They are therefore an integral part of the company’s The three-dimensional Environment, Health & Safety (EHS) hazards, then devising technical control measures to contain culture and strategy. As we are aiming for appreciable value organization of ZF comprises the following elements: hazards, and finally organizational measures or personal proto our employees and other stakeholders, the vision is to tective equipment. Reassessments are performed to confirm manage our Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) perfor• Centers of Excellence developing program elements, effectiveness. mance to occupy a leading position in the automotive in• Regional teams with focus on site service and legislation dustry. Our EHS Policy describes the mission, execution and and Particular attention is given to non‑routine activities, where responsibilities in fulfilling this vision. An EHS Management • ZF-internal business partners to coordinate all EHS most severe accidents occur. Key criteria are considered for System contains detailed stipulations in order to strengthen aspects in the division or business unit. occupational health and safety protection in the planning and EHS processes throughout the company and is subject to procurement of machinery and equipment. Our objective is annual revision. The International Health Group with focus on Asia-Pacific has to promote a global standard for machine safety. The ZF been launched. organization is supported by a Group‑wide machinery safety To measure the implementation and effectiveness of the expert team as well as an interdisciplinary team from Producmanagement system, half‑yearly self‑assessments have been Managing safety tion, Purchasing and EHS that define and publish ZF’s techniperformed at each location and audits carried out by members Aiming for constant improvement, all ZF locations apply our cal delivery specifications for the supply chain. of the global EHS team approximately every three years. internal management system which was established in 2018. Locations may grant certification on a voluntary basis within All employees and their representatives are involved in the The ZF Group has defined targets to further protect, preserve our Integrated Management System (IMS) for occupational continuous improvement of health and safety in the workand promote health, well‑being and job satisfaction. Progress health, safety, environment and energy, which conforms to place and are subject to regular qualification measures. Staff in target achievement is frequently measured, monitored and the international standards OHSAS 18001/ ISO 45001. Howare motivated to report near misses and unsafe situations at managed. The targets for 2019 and 2020 were released by ever, if stipulated by customer requirements or if locations the daily shop floor meetings and to participate in activities the BoM in March 2019 and communicated company-wide. fall significantly short of their accident reduction targets, such as risk assessments, kaizen workshops and suggesthey are expected to join the certification scheme. In 2019, tion schemes. ZF has established a policy against reprisals While compliance with legal and regulatory requirements 75 locations (in 2018: 71) were matrix‑certified, and a further and the employees receive feedback on how their reported is the foundation of all our activities, we have implemented 30 locations hold a single-site certification. Almost all of our information is handled. Also, we have established the ZF Trusour own Group‑wide EHS standards (ZF EHS Management employees and workers are covered by our internal managetline where issues reported by employees are treated strictly System). We aim to meet or exceed customer requirements ment system, and about 40 percent are covered by a certified confidentially. but also to prevent EHS risks. management system. The locations have developed employee reward schemes In addition, ZF believes that safe behavior cannot be achieved First of all, the EHS Management System focuses on the as required by the EHS Management System, to recognize by technical or organizational measures alone. Safety Excelprevention and minimization of risks and impacts related to their contributions to improving safety. Implementation of lence programs have therefore been implemented at all levels Health and Safety. Periodical risk assessments are performed employee involvement and employee reporting is subject of the organization. These programs are constantly enhanced to calculate the level of risk based on the severity and probto internal audits. At the sensing session (an interview of 42 ZF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GENERAL DISCLOSURES MATERIAL TOPICS: ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL SOCIAL non‑supervisory employees with no presence of managers One of the focus areas for ZF in 2019 was to improve the Module 1 focuses on the transformation to a sustainable safety or supervisors), for example, which is performed during the safety of internal transport by reducing the potential risk to culture, presenting nine Safety Leadership Elements and Corporate EHS audits, employees can express how they are pedestrians and the number of incidents compared with the introducing five Safety Basics. Module 2 focuses on hazards, becoming involved in Health and Safety issues and if there previous year by 20 percent, using: risk assessment, incident investigation and managing at‑risk are any concerns. The origin of employee statements is kept behavior. confidential. In case of unacceptable risk, employees have the • Risk assessment right to stop activities and talk to their supervisor and/or Safety • Improved segregation of pedestrians and vehicles Employee Involvement officer and/or Safety representative. As part of the Safety • Improved safety technology in equipment Behavior Based Safety (BBS) aims to increase employee Leadership program, all leaders are made aware of this pos• Minimized use of rider-operated fork-lift trucks in involvement in safety by making employees more aware of sibility and train appropriate responses. manufacturing areas how an individual’s behavior at work largely determines safety • Effective training of drivers and pedestrians outcomes. About 120 (2018: 100) locations have implemented Incidents causing injury and near misses with the potential to this process of safety coaching, with employees coaching their result in severe accidents or fatalities are deeply investigated More than 90 percent of our locations reported to meet colleagues in working safely. In 2019, a total of 22 sites from using root cause analysis, the 5 Why or 8D method. To prevent the target. different divisions and regions were added, and a number of accidents from occurring in the future, information is shared sites started to prepare the rollout in early 2020, when approxiamong the worldwide locations using online Safety Alerts, Safety Excellence mately another 20 sites will be added to the BBS program. with a summary of the event, the root causes and preventive The Safety Excellence program is ongoing and comprises Train-the-trainer training will be performed in early 2020 to measures taken; these are posted on the EHS intranet. three key areas: Safety Leadership, Employee Involvement ensure adequate resources for the BBS rollout in Germany. and Continuous Improvement of Functional EHS Programs. In 2019 we continued to improve the EHS performance of This program aims to sustainably foster the same culture of Continuous Improvement of Functional EHS Programs the supply chain, especially in relation to suppliers providing shared values regarding health and safety for every employee The backbone of the Continuous Improvement program is our onsite services at the locations (contractor activities). The and at every location. To build a culture in which safety is a EHS Management System. Implementation started in 2018 process which was defined in 2018 to better manage convalue, ZF encourages and empowers employees to make a and is expected to cover 90 percent by the end of 2020. tractor qualification and performance was tested at eight pilot positive impact on their work environment. Progress is being evaluated using self‑assessments and as locations and lessons learned were considered at the other part of the EHS Corporate Audit Program. The audit program locations during the global rollout. Contractors are selected Safety leadership also includes an evaluation of legal compliance, performed according to their proven ability to perform safety‑critical Safety Leadership (SL) is a global program (launched in 2017) by a third party. activities. Tight cooperation between trained ZF supervisors to improve leader’s awareness of safety and their ability to and contractors, e.g. discussing contractors’ risk assessments consider safety in daily business (e.g. acting as role models As MSDs (musculoskeletal disorders) make a significant and control measures, proved to be an important component and involving employees). In 2019, the implementation concontribution to our accident/illness rates, we continue to add for improving the safety of contractor employees. Supplier tinued in Germany focusing on site level. Outside Germany, locations to our Group’s software‑based ergonomics program. EHS days also fostered the cooperation at the pilot locations the rollout continued in all regions. In the reporting year, This includes features such as e‑learning, ergonomic risk asand will be repeated at further sites. 3,488 leaders participated in 307 workshops delivered by sessment and best practice solutions; workplace risk assessSafety Leadership Coaches – trained employees from EHS ments are performed by members of a trained location Ergo and production. Overall, 10,554 leaders have now particiTeam. The goal of performing 1,500 new Ergo Assessments pated in 917 workshops since the start of the program. was exceeded by more than 150 percent. 43 ZF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GENERAL DISCLOSURES MATERIAL TOPICS: ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL SOCIAL Managing our well-being initiatives, such as EHS Committees and Councils. All sites significant improvements. The number and rate of high-conIn the EHS Management system we have included a stanconfirmed in their management reviews that they comply sequence work‑related injuries as well as recordable injuries, dardized element concerning Occupational Health. The with this requirement. such as restricted cases or injuries beyond first aid, will be deprocedure is oriented towards ISO 45001 and covers core termined in our future reporting system and reported from 2020. medical issues as well as health-related interdisciplinary The German Law of Occupational Health and Safety Act issues. A first worldwide self-evaluation was conducted. stipulates that occupational health and safety committees are The monthly results show a rather stable rate around the target to be organized at German locations. Members of the Works (no very good or bad months), which could be interpreted as The training units on the topic of “Leadership and Health” Councils are also represented on these committees. Prior a further step toward integrating Safety in our business and in Germany were almost completed in six of ZF’s nine divisions to the occupational health and safety committee meetings, improving the safety culture. This rising management attenas well as in the corporate functions. specialists in occupational health and safety, medical officers, tion is mainly the result of our Safety Leadership Program, representatives of the Works Council and responsible execualong with monthly safety reviews and the improved involveThe campaign “Fit im Betrieb” was rolled out at all German tive managers carry out inspections and audits to gain an ment of our employees. The Severity Rate (Lost Working Days locations. The campaign includes a variety of measures like insight into the current status and requirements for change. per Lost Time Accident) was 14.5 (2018: 17.4). lessons, newsletters, training, a corporate run and active breaks. At least two measures will be conducted at each GRI 403-2 The most frequent types of injury involved fingers and hands; German location by June 2020. The campaign was supported Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational these were sustained in the areas of assembly and machining. and promoted via the new intranet “Zoom”. An evaluation of diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of the campaign will take place at the end of the campaign in work-related fatalities June 2020. T. 25 Rate of accidents (LTAR) Work‑related accidents resulting in lost time are recorded In connection with the future EU-OSHA campaigns the next and analyzed in order to monitor safety performance. In Accidents with working ZF health campaign, starting in 2020, will focus on the 2019, the data included agency workers (workers who are days lost per one million prevention of work-related musculoskeletal disorders (MSDs). not employees but whose work is controlled by ZF) but due working hours 2019 2018 2017 to the current database structure, injury rates and gender EMEA 6.5 7.5 8.8 GRI 403-1 cannot be disclosed separately. A new database will be Workers representation in formal joint implemented in Q1/2020 and will provide more detailed of which Germany 8.6 9.8 11.5 management – worker health and safety committees information. Data on health quotas and absenteeism are not of which Europe available on corporate level. (excl. Germany) 3.9 4.6 5.8 About 60 percent of employees worldwide are covered by national, regional or local labor agreements. The EHS In 2019, no employee or agency worker experienced a fatal North America Management System stipulates that site Management Team work‑related accident within the ZF Group. (incl. Mexico) 1.5 1.7 2.2 shall consult with employees and their representatives and South America 2.9 4.4 4.8 encourage them to participate in EHS initiatives and deciWith 1,142 work‑related accidents resulting in 16,585 lost sion‑making processes. In some countries this is specified by working days, on the basis of 300 million hours worked, the Asia-Pacific 0.6 1.0 1.0 law. Management shall define the scope of this involvement Lost Time Accident Rate (LTAR) – accidents per one million India¹ 0.3 to satisfy the legal requirements (if any) and to make best working hours – amounted to 3.8. This represents a reduction use of the employees’ involvement. Employee involvement by 16 percent compared to the previous year. The regions ZF Group 3.8 4.5 5.5 in EHS Programs shall be supported in activities, teams and NASA and AP show excellent results, and all regions made 1 From 2019 onwards reported as separate region besides Asia Pacific 44 ZF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GENERAL DISCLOSURES MATERIAL TOPICS: ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL SOCIAL GRI 403-3 take business trips to countries with increased health risks, enables us to systematically monitor and anticipate workWorkers with high incidence or high risk of diseases including possible infectious diseases, receive obligatory force issues in all corporate areas. This, in turn, allows us to related to their occupation preventive care. respond to the challenges of demographic change. Information on occupational diseases is currently only GRI 403-4 All training programs are systematically evaluated. Particireported for Germany. There were 12 cases of confirmed Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements pants and trainers submit an evaluation after every event as occupational diseases at different locations in Germany, but with trade unions part of a continuous improvement process. These form the no indications of employee groups with a high rate or risk of basis for regular reviews and appropriate revisions. We select disease resulting from their work at ZF during the reporting The system of codetermination in place at the German ZF external training providers and trainers according to defined year. The risks of occupational diseases and work‑related locations also applies to health and safety at work. Close criteria and a selection process carried out jointly by the health problems typical of the metalworking industry are well cooperation on these issues occurs between the Works specialist department and Purchasing. known. Preventive measures and contingencies for intervenCouncils and the Group Works Council. Occupational health tion are in place. and safety issues are part of the Group Directives and Increasing digitalization and connectedness in production guidelines applied at the various locations. In Germany, the are making their way into companies under the moniker Hearing impairment caused by noise was again the most freapproval process for these regulations includes the involve“Industry 4.0”. This is also changing the requirements for quently reported occupational disease among ZF employees. ment of employee representatives regarding issues subject to apprenticeship. As a result of the project “Apprenticeship There were 12 potential and eight confirmed cases in 2019. codetermination. On a location level, there are various guide4.0”, ZF continues to foster the integration of IT and hybrid As hearing impairment caused by noise usually develops over lines on hand that cover occupational health and safety. qualifications in the internal apprenticeship program. The years of exposure to noise, the latest figures for occupational following job profiles will maintain their importance in the diseases identified do not necessarily reflect current working future: qualified IT and electronic specialists (as well as conditions. Strain on the inner ear is also reduced by wearing bachelor degrees) and production technologists. The internasuitable personal protective equipment (PPE). This hearing GRI 404 TRAINING AND EDUCATION 2016 tionalization of apprenticeships remains important for the ZF protection equipment is available to all employees affected, Group. The ZF site in Saltillo, Mexico was certified as a dual and wearing it is mandatory in noisy areas. GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 training center by the AHK and DIHK in 2019. (incl. 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) Apart from hearing impairment, some work‑related skin Individual and organizational development, qualification and ZF as a learning organization diseases were diagnosed. In 2019, only 25 cases of potenlife‑long learning are decisive success factors when it comes The knowledge management approach is currently only in tial work‑related skin diseases were diagnosed and one was to securing a company’s long‑term future. Our employees place at ZF sites in Germany and does not yet include locaconfirmed. We provide the required skin protection to prevent require the right skills in order to guarantee that we retain our tions of the Active & Passive Safety Technology Division. work‑related skin diseases and stipulate its use in skin protecpower of innovation. ZF employees can choose from a wide The objective is the conscious, responsible and systematic tion plans. Whenever employees suspect they have health range of advanced qualification opportunities. handling of knowledge as a resource. Collaboration rooms, problems, they can consult the company doctor or medical wikis and virtual communication media support the virtual service during working hours. All employees have the option ZF is committed to developing people, management and the cooperation of employees. Best‑practice databases store of undergoing additional health check‑ups alongside mandaorganization by focusing on various layers and target groups valuable practical experience and make it available for reuse. tory health care at ZF. In 2018 we placed particular emphasis and it invests accordingly. Talent management, learning and Expert forums ensure the targeted exchange of knowledge on skin health at all German locations in the form of skin development, educational enhancement and enrichment, and and experience. protection campaigns. In the metalworking industry, the risk competency management are supported and strategically of occupational infectious diseases is negligible. People who developed. Applying this holistic approach to management 45 ZF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GENERAL DISCLOSURES MATERIAL TOPICS: ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL SOCIAL The suggestion and idea management schemes provide emthe respective learning needs and target groups and provide Academy to focus on qualification and processes dedicated ployees with a platform for submitting improvement suggesworkplace-integrated learning offers, such as videos, tutorials to HR. Target groups are cross-divisional, cross-location and tions and ideas. The ideas@ZF project has created the condiand social learning elements combined with instructor-led international. The course portfolio is tailored to functional and tions for an idea management process across all locations. formats such as face-to-face training or live online training. cross-functional learning needs, thus establishing a globally This allows ideas to circulate between the German locations. consistent standard of knowledge and expertise. Thanks to the continuous improvement process, specific imFurthermore, it is essential to take a closer look at the effectiveprovement potential has been identified and implemented. ness of the training offers provided. We therefore expanded Improving qualifications and developing leaders our business model towards a higher prioritization of business Throughout 2019 we worked intensively on foundational Knowledge and idea management in the Corporate HR needs and value-based learning approaches. One of our first leadership, which will be made available in 2020. function creates awareness of the effective handling of initiatives is the implementation of a global digital learning knowledge and ideas; it provides advice and supports the life cycle process, with a major focus on consultancy and Since Leadership Excellence is a strategic target of the ZF professionalization of existing activities as well as building support of subject-matter experts in the design and creation Group, we continued our “ZF Global Leaders” program until new activities in knowledge and idea management. of digital learning content. fall 2019. The program comprised level‑specific modules with a blend of in‑person sessions, virtual learning, self‑reflection GRI 404-2 To support the digital transformation at ZF and the necessary tools, peer group coaching and work on real cases. It aimed Programs for upgrading employee skills and cultural change, further specific initiatives and measures are at strengthening the Group’s leadership pipeline while at transition assistance programs being implemented to shape our learning culture to become the same time creating a uniform global leadership culture more open, connected and collaborative. This includes learnthrough cross‑divisional, cross‑functional and cross‑regional ZF places great importance on education and training, ing in communities, learning from mistakes and more selfgroup composition. resulting in improved qualifications. In the reporting year, responsible learning elements. Another focal topic is devising over 600 young people started an apprenticeship or dual study initiatives and measures to develop the competencies and 1,288 managers from all over the world have participated in program in Germany. By the end of 2019 our apprentices skills needed in the future. Here the team expanded its interthe programs since September 2017. In 2019, 603 managnumbered around 2,300 worldwide. Around 12 percent of nal and external metworks and intensified its collaboration ers participated in the ZF Global Leaders Program and 22 these students are completing a dual study program at a with external partners such as universities and institutes. new cohorts started. In order to increase benefits regarding university. This young target group can choose from 35 differinnovation and efficiency, ZF started revising the current ent apprenticeships and Dual University courses of study. The ZF Academies promote advanced specialized training ZF Global Leaders landscape and designing an improved opportunities for managers and employees in all corporate program in 2020. New ways of learning functions. The objective is to achieve systematic and global Within the Center of Expertise ‘Global Learning and ZF Acadadvanced training of employees with technical training proPreserving knowledge emies’ an important focus is on global learning topics and the grams derived from the Group strategy. Various internal ZF In order to retain knowledge in the organization, ZF has created question of how we as an organization need to adapt to be Academies offer an extensive range of advanced training opknowledge batons whereby employees who are leaving the ready for the future and become a learning organization. portunities for employees in Materials Management, Quality, company make their practical knowledge available to the Finance, IT, Sales, Production, Digital and other associated organization. Existing expertise is documented on storage An essential component is the extension of our learning mix functions. By further expanding activities of the R&D Academedia so that knowledge can be shared and exchanged using and the integration of different elements into one common my, we are intensively supporting the transformation process search engines in which employees can enter specific queries. learning architecture. The goal is to offer the right format for of this area. In addition, we are currently setting up an HR 46 ZF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GENERAL DISCLOSURES MATERIAL TOPICS: ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL SOCIAL In 2016, the ZF Group created a program to allow former ZF believes in and values both the personal and professional Managing diversity employees to contribute their valuable experience and extendevelopment of its employees. Consequently, ZF conducts a Our HR strategy highlights the issue of diversity as part of sive knowledge. The “Senior Professionals” program enables globally aligned performance review and potential evaluation the Group strategy. The topic is managed through a dedicated participation in specific projects and matches specialist areas process (including succession planning) for all managerial corporate diversity department with the support of regional with senior experts. These temporary assignments can be employees, including annual feedback meetings between coordinators. Besides using our intranet, employees can managed with little administrative effort and provide ZF with managers and employees. Every managerial employee also address diversity topics via the official e-mail address a flexible and dedicated workforce. In the reporting year, the receives annual feedback on his or her performance. In the diversity@zf.com. program included 271 registered experts with 26 work asreporting year about 5,800 managers received feedback. signments. ZF focuses on particular dimensions to meet strategic chalIn 2019, the potential evaluation process was extended to lenges and contribute to enhancing the Group’s future comIn Germany, ZF is pursuing a comprehensive approach to employees in the non-managerial pay-scale area who have petitiveness. These dimensions include a balanced gender dealing with the challenges of an aging workforce. For potential for a managerial position. This process was supratio, issues such as cultural background and internationality example, workplaces are being designed to accommodate ported by a cloud‑based solution. of the workforce, a wide range of experience and expertise these requirements, and emphasis is placed on finding the as well as responses to demographic change. All of these right work‑life balance between career and private life. ZF is In 2020, ZF will revise the performance approach to better factors are systematically analyzed and processed on a regular also focusing on health management, flexible working time meet future challenges by improving flexibility, efficiency basis, and results are reported to the Board of Management. models and lifelong learning. and agility within the Group. The new process will then replace the existing individual Targets and Performance (iTaP) The introduction of ZF Career Elements for managers has GRI 404-3 process. With the alignment of these two processes enabled us to define a binding framework for job and career Percentage of employees receiving regular performance ZF also intends to create the opportunity to install an emdecisions – ensuring equal opportunity. The modules deterand career development reviews ployee dialogue with focus on comprehensive feedback and mine criteria for promoting and supporting multidivisional, futureoriented skill development. multidisciplinary experience and help to internationalize manA Short‑Term Incentive (STI) is being applied for all managers agement. The ZF Career Elements were rolled out globally to foster a culture of innovation and performance, thus leadand are well implemented in the organization. ing to stronger target focus. The STI consists of key financial performance indicators and an individual component based GRI 405 DIVERSITY AND EQUAL ZF Diversity Day on individual targets and personal performance. Assessing OPPORTUNITY 2016 For the first time ZF held its Diversity Day in May 2019 at lothe company and individual components ensures comprehencations around the world. The worldwide campaign “Join the sive evaluation of the results achieved throughout the year. GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 Conversation” aimed at taking notice of employees’ voices The process is transparent and defines the framework for (incl. 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) and opinions on the subject of diversity, as well as to encouractions and priorities within the Group, and for the behavior We understand diversity as the key to success, a driver of aging debate about what drives diversity in the company and and attitude we expect from our managers. The STI will be innovations and a factor in enhancing corporate value. This what positive impact it has for business. The events at the revised in the course of 2020. It is intended that only Busiis why ZF signed up with the Diversity Charter and is among three headquarters Friedrichshafen (Germany), Livonia (USA) ness KPIs will be relevant for the new STI structure. a group of approximately 3,300 signatories dedicated to a and Shanghai (China) took place with keynote speeches, welcoming, prejudice‑free corporate culture. This voluntary panel discussions and bar champs. Further ZF locations also commitment represents our pledge to actively promote diverparticipated and celebrated worldwide. sity within our organization. 47 ZF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GENERAL DISCLOSURES MATERIAL TOPICS: ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL SOCIAL Employee Resource Groups We are also a partner company of the highly renowned Since 2018, the existing audit has been extended to other Networking and experience exchange are very important Femtec Association, which was founded by the EAF Berlin major locations in Germany: Besides Friedrichshafen, now success factors. ZF fosters collaboration among employees and the Technical University of Berlin in 2001. Femtec is an also Schweinfurt, Lemförde, Passau and Saarbrücken have from different departments, different areas of expertise, couninternational career platform for women in natural sciences participated. tries and backgrounds, since this is the best way to promote and engineering. The organization recruits talented young new ideas and innovative solutions. With Employee Resource female students, qualifies excellent candidates for a manageAdditionally, family‑friendly minimum standards were defined Groups (ERCs) in our social intranet we build competencies ment career and offers distinguished career perspectives in and consistently implemented by an expert body for work, in various areas of interest and thereby strengthen networked cooperation with the partner companies. Through its involvefamily and private life. Having actively implemented the cooperation. These groups include (Wo)men@ZF, OUT@ZF ment in the Femtec Network, ZF offers a glimpse into the aspect of career and family care for many years, we have also and Diversity@ZF. working world at a technology company. ZF thus offers plant extended childcare places and options for short‑term care tours or specific projects, for example. During this year’s Inthroughout the Group. Another important element is providMentoring women and strengthening STEM novation Workshop (“Innovationswerkstatt”), carried out with ing daycare for about 700 employees’ children during school We believe that women are equal to men. To counterbalance and for ZF, the Femtec participants dealt with questions and vacations in Germany. To name a few more exemplary meastructural disadvantages of women in society, ZF introduced ideas for automated driving. sures, these include operating agreements on mobile work, the (Wo)men@ZF mentoring program in 2018. With twenty contact points for work and family at all major German ZF participants receiving a structured strength-based mentoring Empowering equal opportunity locations, connection of employee partners in family‑related it has started successfully. A new run launched at the end of The compatibility of work and family is an important driver time out, well‑established counseling services for profes2019. The mentoring program aims to give employees new for promoting equal opportunities and employee satisfaction. sional and private crisis situations, various childcare services, perspectives, expand their network at ZF and work on their This is why one of the ZF Career Elements is a “social career support services and information on the subject of care as careers. element”, which covers parental leave, leave to care for relawell as care solutions. tives and other types of community and family commitment. As part of ZF’s approach to managing diversity we have Diversity ranking set a focus to attract women for careers in STEM (Science, Since 2006, the ZF location in Friedrichshafen has been In a recent study conducted by the Financial Times and Technology, Engineering, Math) professions. ZF is proud to certified as a family‑friendly company in Germany. As part of Statista, a German online portal specialized in statistics, be a corporate partner of the university networks Femtec and the “career and family” (“berufundfamilie”) audit, family‑related ZF Friedrichshafen AG ranked tenth among 700 companies. UNITECH, whose students want to become highly qualified, targets and measures have been firmly established. The audit internationally experienced STEM graduates with access to is a widely recognized branding and an excellent instrument The survey included 80,000 employees from 10,000 privately prime entry positions. for increasing employer attractiveness and employees’ commitheld and publicly listed companies with at least 250 emment. It provides our employees with a framework that allows ployees. The research considered all types of diversity and UNITECH International is a European network of top engithem to reconcile their work, family and private life. A culture covered ten European countries: Austria, Belgium, France, neering universities and multinational companies offering of cooperation and partnership on the part of all concerned is Germany, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Sweden, scholarships to selected students. In 2019, ZF was able to of great importance to us and will allow all parties involved to Switzerland and the UK. recruit more students from these talent pools for internships, equally benefit from this certification. Our focus here is on a theses and final positions. Due to a refocusing of our STEM principle of give and take. activities and networks ZF will defer the UNITECH cooperation after 2019. 48 ZF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GENERAL DISCLOSURES MATERIAL TOPICS: ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL SOCIAL GRI 405-1 T. 05 ZF employees by region and gender¹ 2017-2019 Diversity of governance bodies and employees in percent Women Men Regarding age diversity, from a global perspective demographic change comes in many different forms. While west2019 2018 2017 2019 2018 2017 ern industrialized countries are primarily confronted with the challenges of an aging population, people in developing and Europe 22.89 14.30 13.85 77.10 85.70 86.19 newly industrialized countries are much younger. Since ZF of which Germany 14.07 13.15 12.93 85.93 86.85 86.99 is a global player with about 241 locations in 41 countries, the age structure of the company’s workforce is very heteroNorth America 40.38 27.46 26.62 59.61 72.54 73.98 geneous and is strongly dependent on the history of each South America 13.60 9.17 9.1 96.40 90.93 91.49 particular ZF location. Asia-Pacific² 21.67 16.63 16.91 78.32 83.37 81.11 In light of German legislation governing equal representation Africa 28.42 16.25 14.73 71.58 83.75 84.93 of women and men in managerial positions in the private and public sectors, targets for the relevant managerial levels Total 26.64 16.12 15.73 73.36 83.88 84.27 have been discussed and set for ZF Friedrichshafen AG to be achieved by June 30, 2022. 1 2017 and 2018 without Active & Passive Safety Technology Division; included in 2019 2 Including India At the first managerial level (executive vice president/senior vice president) and the second managerial level (vice president) below the Board of Management, the percentage of T. 07 Management diversity by age 2019 women is planned to increase to 15.0 percent in each case. Managers in the first, For vacancies regarding the Board of Management, a quota second and third management of 10.0 percent female Board of Management members is in percent levels below Board of Management All other management groups envisaged. The appointment of Sabine Jaskula as member of < 30 years 0.00 0.23 the Board of Management in 2018 for the HR and Legal Corporate Function means that this target has already been met. 30-50 38.51 61.09 > 50 years 61.49 38.69 T. 06 ZF employees by gender¹ 2017-2019 headcount 2019 2018 2017 Men 108,424 65,680 64,071 Women 39,373 12,619 11,959 1 2017 and 2018 without Active & Passive Safety Technology Division; included in 2019 49 ZF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GENERAL DISCLOSURES MATERIAL TOPICS: ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL SOCIAL For vacancies regarding the Supervisory Board, a quota of 30 positions since mid‑2017. A global compensation database GRI 414 SUPPLIER SOCIAL ASSESSMENT 2016 percent was set. The quota is currently 10 percent. has been progressively introduced for a three‑year period, which will be completed in 2021. The planned compensation GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 The percentage of older employees is much higher in Europe, database will enable ZF – among other benefits – to report (incl. 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) whereas the workforce in other regions is younger on averand monitor equal remuneration as well as potential gender ZF has an integrated approach regarding supplier environage. gaps worldwide. ZF is an equal opportunity employer and mental and social assessments; see GRI 204 for further has appointed a global diversity manager to monitor equal details on our management approach with suppliers. In 2019, the proportion of women in management positions treatment among employees. in the Group amounted to 11.7 percent. To meet the requirement following the provisions of the Dodd Frank Act, Sec. 1502, and to ensure a conflict‑free supply Since 2006, ZF Friedrichshafen AG has been compliant with chain, ZF requested all relevant production material suppliers the statutory requirements for employees with disabilities and GRI 406 NON-DISCRIMINATION 2016 to disclose the origin of their resources. Gold, coltan, casrecorded the rate for Germany. In 2019, the proportion of emsiterite, wolframite and its derivatives such as tantalum, tin or ployees with disabilities amounted to 5.7 percent. This level GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 tungsten from the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) exceeded the five percent minimum that legislation stipulates (incl. 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) and adjacent countries, as used in company products, are for the company. As a result, it was not necessary to make ZF is present in many countries of the world and embraces considered as conflict minerals since they finance conflicts. any compensation payments. a wide diversity of cultures and people. We foster the exchange of thoughts, ideas and methods as well as underZF is using a web-based solution for the reporting and GRI 405-2 standing between cultures and people. Our ZF Charter and identification of conflict minerals along the entire supply Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men ZF Leadership Principles contain a definitive statement on chain. As part of the tool-assisted supplier inquiry program, the issue of diversity: Employees at ZF are not discriminated a total feedback of more than 50 percent was recorded in Remuneration at ZF is based on compensation structures. against on the basis of skin color, gender, age, nationality, the reporting year 2019. We intend to increase the feedback While in the Active & Passive Safety Technology Division religious denomination, social background, disability or rate from suppliers in 2020. The result of the inquiries is that compensation structures are historically based on a global sexual orientation. This applies to the recruitment of new there is no indication that ZF products are directly affected job classification system, in other ZF entities the compensaemployees, the existing employment relationship and profesby sourced products that finance conflicts in DRC regions. tion structure for managers is based on a global grading sional advancement at ZF. The only traits that are important At all suppliers who indicated potential high-risk smelters system. Compensation structures below management levels are performance, personality, skills and qualifications. For in their supply chain, ZF conducts a follow-up and requests are based either on collective pay‑scale agreements or on further details on our values see GRI 102-16, regarding these suppliers to eliminate critical smelters from their supply local grading systems. managing compliance see GRI 205. chain. ZF also requests an assurance from new suppliers that they do not source from the identified smelters. As these Job classification, grading systems and collective pay‑scale GRI 406-1 minerals are necessary for several technical functions and agreements are intended to minimize the risk of discrimiIncidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken purposes of some of our products, ZF is fully committed to nating against women on compensation levels. Entities of further cleaning its supply chain. the Active & Passive Safety Technology Division have been There were no confirmed incidents of discrimination in the fully integrated into ZF’s grading process for management reporting year. 50 ZF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GENERAL DISCLOSURES MATERIAL TOPICS: ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL SOCIAL GRI 414-1 GRI 416 CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY 2016 Considering full compliance with the law as the foundation New suppliers that were screened using social criteria of our work, we are constantly striving to maintain our product GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 quality at the highest level despite increasing product comIn the course of the reporting year, 100 percent of new ZF (incl. 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) plexity. Therefore, a certified ZF quality management system, suppliers underwent self-assessments according to defined In providing products and services for people, ZF works consistent quality controls and regularly optimized processes sustainability criteria by ZF. No indications of infringements toward improving customer health and safety in many ways. support us in this endeavor. In addition, we established a against our principles of environmental protection, human Consequently, we are committed to delivering the best quality Product Safety and Regulatory Office in 2019. It analyzes, rights, labor practices, forced labor, child labor or freedom and reliability in our products. evaluates, and tracks all relevant quality incidents and associof association were identified. We will continue to apply and ated risks and reports its findings directly to the member of extend this procedure consistently in the future. The ZF4Q quality strategy is derived from the Group strategy, the Board of Management responsible for quality. and the ZF Quality Management System is based on three elements: The guideline DG 06-16 supports our ZF4Q strategy and is also used in acquisitions and majority shareholdings. This • Quality Planning for prevention, guideline describes the application of safety standards (e.g. IEC 61508, ISO 26262) during product development and • Quality Assurance to secure the current volume supports the development of safe products. This directive is production, and consistent with Safety of the Intended Functionality (SOTIF) principles. • Quality Management to shape processes and structures. The Functional Safety Directive establishes functional safety The goal is to implement all processes, both industrial and processes at ZF and business‑related, at a high level of maturity and evaluate them with a view to ongoing improvements, in line with the • specifies functional safety as an objective, ZF Production System. • creates awareness of the potential safety effects of errors, With the advancement of complex programmable electronand ics, functional safety has become increasingly important in product safety, as overall safety depends on the correct • establishes responsibility for actions, consistent analysis functioning of safety‑related systems and other risk reduction and mitigation of problems on a sound technical basis. measures. In recent years ZF has followed up its commitment to promoting functional safety as part of the ZF Vision Zero: Each division is responsible for training employees on this Zero Accidents – Zero Emissions. directive and developing an organization with clear areas of authority, responsibilities and functional safety processes. 51 ZF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GENERAL DISCLOSURES MATERIAL TOPICS: ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL SOCIAL See – Think – Act Act – Actuators turn electric commands from the control tomography in particular allows considerable reduction of In addition, our products allow for improving safety in mobilunits into mechanical movements, such as braking maneutime and material expenditure, e.g. for microporosity testing. ity. With the updated Group strategy, ZF has charted the vers. Recuperation makes it possible to convert part of the In addition, this non-destructive testing technology allows for course for the future. By adhering to the “See – Think – Act” kinetic energy back to electrical energy, which can be used observation of assembly states of internal components and principle and our Vision Zero, ZF intends to make a strong to charge the battery of a hybrid or electric vehicle. the measurement of semi-finished products that are difficult contribution to future mobility with its products and services to access. Meaningful results can be obtained with very few – reducing emissions and accidents to zero. GRI 416-1 test setups and without additional impact on the environment. Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product ZF aims to meet the demands of the mobility megatrends and service categories of tomorrow, such as efficiency, integrated safety and automated driving. With its “See – Think – Act” guiding principle, ZF’s Global Development and Product Evolution Process the Group has set a clear technology focus. The company’s (GD PEP) establishes quality and safety management product and technology planning is based on market and procedures for ZF’s products and services. Group directives product roadmaps which are continuously updated. Developimplement processes for adapting specifications to specific ment has also focused on sensors for environment recogniproducts. Appropriate testing is done at different points in tion, electronic control units, occupant safety systems and the course of the project. In the development process, serautomated driving functions. vice concepts are also designed and then implemented by trained customer service personnel. ZF’s “See – Think – Act” approach seeks to enhance the safety of its products. Our commitment to product quality continues in manufacturing. ZF then has processes in place to monitor products See – Technology such as forward‑looking cameras and in the field and work with customers when potential issues 360‑degree radar sensors monitor traffic situations and road arise. These efforts promote stable processes in production conditions, seeking to reduce risks to drivers, occupants and at ZF manufacturing locations worldwide. pedestrians. To ensure highest quality and reliability, ZF is using the comThink – The central control unit processes information and bined potential of recent technological developments. With is capable of activating safety functions, such as automatic the help of industrial computer tomography as well as ultraemergency braking or airbag deployment. cubiX, a new sound and X-ray examinations, components or construction control system for actuators and components, networks these stages in the development and production phases are tested units using software and sets out to optimize driving behavior. non-destructively and in an environmentally friendly manner. It is the link between Think and Act. The results are displayed three-dimensionally. Computer 52 ZF SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GENERAL DISCLOSURES MATERIAL TOPICS: ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL IMPRINT By signing the United Nations Global Compact in May 2012, ZF committed itself to actively support ten principles of ZF Friedrichshafen AG responsible business. D-88038 Friedrichshafen Germany Phone +49 7541 77-0 Fax +49 7541 77-908000 UN Global Compact Principles Relevant GRI Disclosures www.zf.com Human rights Contact Principle 1: B  usinesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed 102-16, 205, 414 ZF Friedrichshafen AG human rights; and Corporate Governance Sustainability Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 102-16, 205, 414 Löwentaler Straße 20 D-88046 Friedrichshafen Labour Email: sustainability@zf.com Principle 3: B  usinesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition 102-41, 402, 414 of the right to collective bargaining; Editorial deadline March 2020 Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 102-16, 204, 205, 414 Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and 102-16, 205, 414 Consultancy, text and layout akzente kommunikation und beratung gmbh, Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 102-8, 102-16, 205, 405, 414 D-80469 Munich, Germany Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 102-11, 308 Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and 301, 302, 303, 305, 306, 307, 308 Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 301, 302, 303, 305, 306, 307, 308 Anti-corruption Principle 10: B usinesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion 102-16, 205, 414 and bribery.
