Engineering: people’s work Annual Report 2019 1 3D Concrete Printing witteveenbos.com/ar-concrete Engineering: people’s work Annual Report 2019 4 CONTENT 5 Board of Directors’ report 6 Supervisory Board report 7 Stakeholder panel report 8 Mission and vision 12 Corporate objectives 16 Objective 1: Societal value through projects 18 SDG Impact Tool 20 Innovative water projects 22 Integral approach to energy 24 Projects 2019 26 Interview: Design Team Wolferen-Sprok 8 12 32 Objective 2: Talent development 34 Interview: growth and developments Witteveen+Bos Belgium 38 Personnel key figures 40 Talent interviews 46 Objective 3: Sustainable business operations 48 Business operations key figures 52 Objective 4: Economic value 53 Summarised annual results 2019 54 Financial key figures 55 Notes to the 2019 annual financial statements 20 26 32 34 44 46 52 2 3 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT In 2019, Witteveen+Bos employees worldwide Our third corporate objective is sustainable were involved in 4,000 projects, working business operations. In Rotterdam, we relocated on issues like CO2 neutral and circular to a very sustainably renovated office building construction, sustainable infrastructure, near Blaak station and in Utrecht we opened the energy transition, flood protection, a new office near Utrecht Central Station. We climate adaptation and improvement of closed our offices in Ghana and Russia, opened industrial processes. One of the projects a new one in Belgium (Ghent) and decided to we worked on with various partners was open a front office in Panama. In 2019, we drew the future-proof Waterfabriek Wilp. This up an agenda for our digital transition. This was circular water treatment process produces aimed at the digitisation of our own business clean water and removes substances operations and towards the development, sale from wastewater so that it can be re-used. and control of digital products and services. On This innovative development won De 1 January 2020, our new Digital Acceleration Vernufteling at the beginning of 2020. In and Support Centre gave us control over this 2019, our workforce grew from 1,125 to transition. In 2020, we will focus more on data1,208 colleagues worldwide. This growth was driven working, in both our business operations completely autonomous and took place in and projects. the Netherlands and Belgium. On balance, we closed 2019 with a total revenue of 145 Creating economic value is our fourth corporate million euros and a net result of 16.1 million objective. The total revenue in 2019 was 145 euros. million euros, of which 116.2 million was internal revenue. The net result in 2019 amounted to 16.1 Witteveen+Bos is an engineering consultancy million euros and a net profit margin of 11.1 %. firm offering solutions to societal challenges This meant that 2019 was a good financial year in the water, infrastructure, environment and for Witteveen+Bos. construction sectors. For our employees, we are the platform for discovering, developing and We therefore made an optimistic start to 2020 deploying talents to create societal value. Based with personnel growth and a good schedule of on these elements of our mission, we have work. Since mid-March 2020, the Coronavirus defined four corporate objectives which we will has created a great deal of uncertainty. We are address in this annual report. currently being cautious with further personnel growth and with investments in housing, for Our first corporate objective is to create societal example. In 2019, we explored ways to reduce value through our projects. The societal goals our working capital, and that will continue to be are based on the United Nations Sustainable important. Another important focus is on liquidity, Development Goals) (SDGs) among other things. maintaining our productivity and the health of our Through our own seven sustainable development employees. Finally, there will be more focus on principles (SDPs), we can put sustainability into our share participation system in 2020. practice in our projects. In 2019, we devoted extra attention to the CO2 neutral and circular design In 2020, Karin Sluis is resigning as managing principles. In 2019, we further developed our SDG director. The new board of directors will consist of impact tool. We used this tool to determine how Wouter Bijman (managing director), Stephan van twenty-six projects contributed to achieving the der Biezen and Eveline Buter. This expansion of UN’s Sustainable Development Goals. In 2020, we the board fits in with the significant global growth will focus on participative design so that we can seen in recent years, creates more scope for both involve all our stakeholders in our projects. internal and external portfolios and enables us to present our work more visibly in society. Talent development is our second corporate objective. In 2019, we developed a new vision We look back at an excellent 2019 and are for our international organisation. This vision delighted to share the results with you in this distinguishes between home and export markets annual report, although with mixed feelings in and provides scope for local entrepreneurship and the current Coronavirus crisis. Despite all the worldwide cooperation. Again, we experienced uncertainty, we also look forward to working strong net growth. In 2019, we devoted extra with clients and partners on important societal attention to a proper onboarding programme challenges in 2020. Because engineering work to ensure the best start for our new colleagues. will always be people’s work. Together with Saxion University of Applied Sciences, we investigated what employees feel is Deventer, the Netherlands, 23 March 2020 important in their work. In 2020, we will continue analysing those results to ensure optimal talent Board of Directors of Witteveen+Bos N.V. development during all career phases. We will Karin Sluis also emphasise the importance of diversity, Stephan van der Biezen inclusion and shared impact in 2020. 4 5 SUPERVISORY BOARD REPORT STAKEHOLDER PANEL REPORT The Supervisory Board of Witteveen+Bos N.V. is pleased to present this report On Tuesday 25 February 2020, a draft version of the 2019 Annual Report was to Witteveen+Bos stakeholders to provide insight into the performance of our discussed with a panel comprising four external stakeholders. supervisory duties in 2019. Witteveen+Bos was represented by four members of the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) team. The stakeholders reviewed the report with a In 2019, four regular meetings were held with the Board of Directors. As in previous positive yet critical view and recommended possible improvements. Where years, the four corporate objectives of Witteveen+Bos provided the theme for these possible, their recommendations have been directly incorporated into the meetings. At each meeting, we discussed the development of the working capital and final version of this annual report. Their other recommendations will be used the interim financial result. We are delighted that the ‘reduction of working capital’ goal next year. is starting to bear fruit and we will follow its development in 2020. We will also continue to monitor the problem relating to PAS and PFAS and its possible (financial) impact. Societal role and knowledge development According to the panel, Witteveen+Bos is an innovative, original and expert partner. We are regularly informed about the long-term study into the share participation Times of complex societal challenge require state-of-the-art professional knowledge, system. We support this study and have advised taking a close look at the risk profile advisory work and engineering. Sometimes a different system approach or a of the participation system and taking control measures where possible. (fundamentally) new approach to designing is required. Issues can also arise in the relationship with the client, for example. The panel suggests that this should be better The new organisational model with home and export markets has been discussed. In reflected in the annual report. that discussion, we advised taking a critical look at the countries in which Witteveen+Bos wishes to operate. Our global activities must add value to the The panel is positive about Witteveen+Bos’ activities with respect to knowledge corporate objectives of Witteveen+Bos and be appropriate to the risk profile. The development and exchange, for example with universities and universities of applied subject of compliance was addressed extensively in 2019 and is essential to sciences and other knowledge-intensive partners. The panel suggests that this worldwide entrepreneurship. element should be strengthened in the annual report. In projects with an important societal impact, Witteveen+Bos can also do something extra for the local community, We discussed how Witteveen+Bos approaches digital developments and how we outside the project. There are various ways to do this. interpret and manage the digital transition in practice. Personnel developments were also addressed, with special attention given to the onboarding programme for new Materiality analysis colleagues, ongoing training of employees and the reasons why employees leave the At the end of 2019, a new materiality analysis was started. The results will be company. processed and analysed at the beginning of 2020. Besides presenting these results, the panel also advises linking them to the results of the previous materiality In 2020, Karin Sluis is resigning as managing director. Because the ‘weakened analysis from 2015. What general conclusions can be drawn about the differences structure regime’ applies to Witteveen+Bos N.V, the Annual General Meeting (AGM) and similarities in subjects selected by internal and external stakeholders as being appoints board members based on nomination by the Board of Directors. However, we material? are closely involved in the selection process. Following an appointment by the AGM, we have total confidence in the new board and look forward to an enjoyable working UN’s Sustainable Development Goals and our sustainable relationship. development principles The panel is positive about the explanation and presentation of the SDG Impact In 2019, Commissioner Angelique Heckman was appointed the successor of Inca van Tool in the annual report. Based on a project in Indonesia, the positive and negative Uuden. With her extensive HR experience, Angelique Heckman is a tremendous asset. impact on the UN’s SDGs is described. The panel is interested in these first steps In 2020, Hans van der Ven and Gerard van de Aast come to the end of their first term in using the SDG Impact Tool. The panel also recommends doing more extensive of office. Both are candidates for reappointment. research into how impact can be rationalised and how the impact can be attributed to the use of the sustainable development principles (SDPs) of Witteveen+Bos. The The financial statements for 2019 were prepared by the Board of Directors, audited by ‘Design with nature’ principle is a good example of using local, natural systems in the the company’s external auditor, Deloitte, and discussed in the presence of the design to create value for society, the economy and nature. accountant. In the light of the current Coronavirus crisis, we support the focus of the Board of Directors on liquidity, productivity and health. On this basis, we advise Safety considering whether a dividend payment is appropriate. We propose that the Annual The stakeholder panel notes that Witteveen+Bos plays an important role in safety General Meeting adopts the annual financial statements, discharges the Board of in the construction world. This is a subject in which we need to develop a vision and Directors from liability for its management and policies, and discharges the communicate widely. This is particularly important when working on project sites Supervisory Board from liability for the performance of its supervisory duties. under difficult conditions or social safety, for example. By incorporating safety in the design, we can reduce safety risks in the construction phase and during use. The In the run-up to 2020, the 2020 Business Plan and budgets for the coming year were annual report could also devote more attention to vision and content related to safety. reviewed. We also discussed adjusting the budget due to the Coronavirus crisis. We agreed that we would have frequent contact about the effects of the Coronavirus crisis People work and talent development and any mitigating circumstances. The stakeholder panel is positive about the cooperation with Witteveen+Bos. The expertise, reliability and commitment of Witteveen+Bos employees are key to this. We would like to thank the Board of Directors and the employees for their commitment It is important to emphasise that in this annual report. From super-specialists to and enthusiasm in the past year and look forward in anticipation to 2020. generalists and process coordinators: together they ensure the best approach. It is therefore important to ensure an optimal connection between talent and project.. Deventer, the Netherlands, 23 March 2020 Stakeholder panel Supervisory Board Thijs de la Court, Klimaatverbond Nederland Hans van der Ven (voorzitter) Ellen Schild, Studio Groen+Schild Gerard van de Aast Jaap van Thiel de Vries, Boskalis Angelique Heckman Herman Vermeer, SwifterwinT 6 7 MISSION AND VISION Organisation The Board of Directors is charged with the We have a clear mission statement: ‘Witteveen+Bos offers day-to-day management of Witteveen+Bos its clients value-added consultancy and top-quality designs N.V. The Supervisory Board monitors the for water, infrastructure, environment and construction company’s continuity by providing external projects. We use our high-end expertise to resolve complex supervision. With over 1,200 colleagues, we issues and are a committed partner for our clients. We operate close to our clients, projects, partners attach great importance to our independence and to our and the employment market. Our 21 offices corporate culture, allowing all our employees to excel, fully are located in eleven countries. In our home utilising their talents and maximising value for clients.’ markets of the Netherlands, Belgium, Indonesia and Kazakhstan, we have Vision organised employee representation. In our Witteveen+Bos is an engineering consultancy firm that seeks to other offices, there is direct consultation with offer the very highest level of quality. To us, being a top-class firm the employees. means: excelling in your own work, collaborating with other topclass people and working in a culture based on entrepreneurship Small organisational units, our productand trust. These elements form our DNA, and are the strengths market combinations (or PMCs), are enabling us to distinguish ourselves in the market, allowing for responsible for (new) projects and long-term independent continuity. entrepreneurship. These PMCs are clustered into four business lines focusing on the Craftsmanship following areas of expertise: Deltas, coasts At the core, our work is about knowledge: bringing together the and rivers, Energy, water and the right expertise to help solve challenging issues in water, environment, Built environment, and infrastructure, environment and construction projects. State-ofInfrastructure and mobility. Each business line the-art expertise starts with a passion for the profession. Our has a management team which is responsible employees want to know everything there is to know in their field; for the worldwide integration of business from geotechnical engineering to mechanical engineering, from development, product development and water management to environmental law and from circularity and innovation, international career development, energy transition to data-driven, digital solutions. By sharing and knowledge, and capacity. developing knowledge and deploying it worldwide, we can devise the most effective solutions. The business lines and their management are supported and advised by the Sustainable collaboration Communications, Facility Management, The issues we work on are becoming larger and more complex. Finance, ICT, Legal Affairs and Quality and To develop sustainable solutions, our people work in Human Resources corporate departments. international and multidisciplinary project teams alongside colleagues from various backgrounds. We always try to assemble On 1 January 2020, the governance model for the best possible team. For that reason, we regularly work with our international entities was updated. This external parties, on a project basis, and in structural model discerns three independent roles in the partnerships. management of these offices, i.e. the management role (by the executive board); Entrepreneurship and trust the controlling and advisory role (by the Our corporate culture is characterised by trust and scope for departments); and the role of the shareholder entrepreneurship. We work in an informal atmosphere, and to whom we are accountable. employees say that they feel engaged with the organisation. Together we are Witteveen+Bos connected worldwide. It is vital Compliance that we enable everyone to do what they do best and that we Our company code and the policies offer an environment that promotes creativity and innovation. We associated with it describe our principles and believe that professionals know best how to do their jobs. They how we do business at Witteveen+Bos. In have the intrinsic motivation to develop and contribute to a better addition to our own values and convictions, society through their work. By pursuing mainly organic growth, the Company Code is based on the OECD we can retain our identity and safeguard our corporate culture. Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. Witteveen+Bos is also a member of the Clients United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). We Both public and private sector clients call on us to help resolve have adopted the ten UNGC principles in the the challenges they face. In the public sector, we work for the areas of human rights, labour rights, national government, water boards, and provincial and local environment and anti-corruption. authorities. We advise contractors, engineering and architectural firms, energy and water companies, railway and port authorities, Witteveen+Bos has an Ethics and and industry. Our activities relate to the entire chain, from policy Compliance Officer, appointed in 2018, who development and design to contracting and supervising the is responsible for preparing and executing the execution of work. Increasingly, we are offering digital solutions Corporate Compliance Programme. at each stage. We aim to establish long-term relationships with our clients so that we can meet their needs and expectations as effectively as possible while delivering maximum added value. 8 9 Overview business lines Overview business and PMCs PMCs as lines and at 1 as at 1 January January 2020 2020 Overview business lines and PMCs as at 1 January 2020 BOARD BOARD WITTEVEEN+BOS WITTEVEEN+BOS N.V. N.V. OWNERSHIP STRUCTURE In 1992, an employee share BUSINESS BUSINESS LINES LINES DEPARTMENTS DEPARTMENTS ownership system was introduced whereby Witteveen+Bos is fully Infrastructure Infrastructure and and Built Built Deltas, Coasts and Deltas, Coasts and Energy, Water and Energy, Water and Digital Acceleration Digital Acceleration Mobility Environment Rivers Environment and Support Support owned by its staff. Mobility Environment Rivers Environment and Employees in the Netherlands with a Construction Coasts, permanent employment contract who THE Area Development Area Rivers and Coasts, Rivers Circular and Circular Digital Digital Acceleration Communication HOME HOMEMARKET MARKET THE Construction Development and and Acceleration Communication NETHERLANDS Management PMC NETHERLANDS Management PMC PMC PMC Land Reclamation Land Reclamation Biobased Biobased Solutions Solutions work full-time or part-time with a minimum PMC PMC PMC PMC of 8 hours per week are invited to buy Infrastructural shares. Outside the Netherlands, Offices Offices Infrastructural Buildings PMC Buildings PMC Ecology PMC Ecology PMC Drinking Drinking Water Water and and Digital Digital Support Support Facilities Facilities Engineering PMC Engineering PMC Process Water PMC Process Water PMC employees can buy notes which are Amsterdam Amsterdam similar to share certificates. Employees Breda Life Life Cycle Cycle Energy Transition Energy Transition Flood Protection and Flood Protection and Electrical and Proces Electrical and Proces Finance Finance can also be invited to join the scheme as Breda Management PMC PMC Land Development Development Automation Systems Management PMC PMC Land Automation Systems a partner, premium partner or senior Deventer PMC PMC Engineering Engineering PMC PMC Deventer partner. Replacement Replacement and and Environmental Law Environmental Law Geotechnical and Geotechnical and Energy Systems Energy Systems Human Resources Human Resources Heerenveen Heerenveen Renovation of Renovation of Civil Civil and Permits and Permits PMC PMC Hydraulic Engineering Hydraulic Engineering PMC PMC Structures PMC PMC The employee participation supports our Rotterdam Structures PMC PMC Rotterdam company culture, which is based on Smart Smart Infra Infra Systems Systems Planning Studies and Planning Studies and Hydraulic Hydraulic Environment and Environment and ICT ICT entrepreneurship and trust. We therefore The The Hague Hague PMC PMC Process Management Process Management Constructions Constructions and and Health PMC Health PMC PMC PMC Dynamics Dynamics PMC PMC aim to achieve a high degree of Utrecht Utrecht participation and want the number of Urban Development Urban Port Development, Port International Legal and Legal and Quality Traﬃ Traﬃcc and and Development Development, International Quality subscribers to be more than the available Wageningen Wageningen Roads PMC PMC PMC Waterways and Waterways and Technical Assistance Technical Assistance Roads PMC Dredging PMC Dredging PMC PMC PMC number of Witteveen+Bos shares. For a healthy share participation scheme, it is Underground Underground and Waterways Ports and Ports Waterways Soil Soil Remediation Remediation Infrastructure PMC Infrastructure PMC PMC PMC and Environment and Environment important to have enough shares PMC PMC available in the future for new members Water Water Management Management Wastewater Wastewater PMC PMC and room for new partners. PMC PMC Net profit is distributed annually through a profit-sharing scheme for all employees BELGIUM BELGIUM Infrastructural Infrastructural Coasts, Coasts, Rivers Rivers and and Environmental Environmental Human Human Resources Resources and dividend allocations to all Development Development and Cities PMC PMC Development and and and Cities Development shareholders. This reflects a central tenet Management PMC Management PMC Management PMC Management PMC Offices Offices of the Witteveen+Bos philosophy: Soil and Soil and everyone within the company contributes Antwerp Antwerp Groundwater Groundwater PMC PMC to our success, and so everyone should Ghent Ghent share in the benefits of that success. Sustainable Sustainable Industrial Industrial Steenokkerzeel Operations PMC Operations PMC Steenokkerzeel INDONESIA INDONESIA Hydraulic Hydraulic Infrastructure Infrastructure Office Office and Geotechnical and Geotechnical Engineering Engineering Jakarta Jakarta Indonesia PMC Indonesia PMC Water Water Management Management Indonesia Indonesia PMC PMC KAZACHSTAN KAZACHSTAN Water and Water and Finance Finance Environment Environment Kazakhstan Kazakhstan PMC PMC Offices Offices Aktau Aktau Almaty Almaty Atyrau Atyrau EXPORT EXPORTMARKETS MARKETS Front Front office office Front office Front office Front office Front office Front Front office office Front Front office office Front Front office office Front office Front office Latvia Latvia Panama Panama Dubai Dubai United Kingdom United Kingdom Singapore Singapore Vietnam Vietnam Ghana Ghana 10 11 CORPORATE OBJECTIVES Objective 3: Sustainable business operations Witteveen+Bos has a dual mission: we devise To work on projects and develop sustainable solutions to complex challenges in the talent, we must operate our business fields of water, infrastructure, the environment and in a sustainable way. Our corporate construction, and we want to enable all our employees departments are responsible for various to excel. To fulfil this mission, we must continue to crucial business processes (such as focus on our four corporate objectives: societal value the onboarding of a new colleague) and through projects, talent development, sustainable work on projects (like developing a new business operations, and economic value. worldwide intranet and refurbishing an office). Through our business processes, In the sections below, we report on the progress made we can also contribute to the UN’s SDGs. in 2019 towards achieving our four corporate objectives. Making our mobility more sustainable, To measure this progress, we identified Key Performance reducing our CO₂ emissions and Indicators (KPIs) for each objective. In recent years, we had promoting corporate social responsibility noticed how hard it was to choose good KPIs for the various in the supply chain are other important corporate objectives. In 2019, we therefore focused on activities. choosing the right KPIs. Objective 4: Economic value Objective 1: Societal value and contribution to the Achieving healthy financial results is UN’s SDGs essential to ensure continuity. Good Our primary objective is based on the first part of our financial results are necessary to provide mission: to add value in projects relating to water, enough scope for innovation and other infrastructure, the environment and construction. We can new developments and to be able to have a big impact through the 4,000 projects we work on invest in people. We therefore aim to annually. This enables us to contribute to important societal achieve a healthy annual net profit margin challenges like the energy transition, climate adaptation, of at least 8 % and an annual workforce circular economy and restoration of biodiversity. and revenue growth of 3 to 5 %. We can also contribute to the United Nations Sustainable Situation in 2028 and first steps Development Goals (SDGs) such as good health and wellIn 2018, we outlined what Witteveen+Bos being, clean water and sanitation, sustainable energy, will look like over the coming ten years. affordable and clean energy, good infrastructure, sustainable Our neWBies employees who have cities, responsible consumption, and the preservation of been with us for a maximum of five years aquatic and terrestrial wildlife. The UN’s 17 SDGs constitute helped develop this vision. For each a worldwide action plan to ensure a socially, ecologically corporate objective set out in this annual and economically sustainable world by 2030. Because report, we provide a perspective outlining SDGs focus on developing countries, Witteveen+Bos our first steps in 2019. translated the SDGs into ‘hot topics’ which are relevant in our projects: our seven Sustainable Development Principles At the end of 2019, the Corporate (SDPs). Social Responsibility (CSR) team interviewed various internal and external Our SDPs enable us to contribute optimally to the UN’s stakeholders and sent a questionnaire to SDGs and the relevant issues in our projects. In each all Witteveen+Bos employees worldwide. project, we study which SDPs could play a role and to what This included questions like ‘What extent. These principles are designing with nature, flexible societal challenges are important to design, circular design, multifunctional design, participative Witteveen+Bos?’, ‘How do you assess design, societal design and Trias (limiting and optimising the the contribution of Witteveen+Bos use of energy and raw materials). Our SDPs are part of our now?’ and ‘What should Witteveen+Bos Quality System, which is based on the most recent ISO 9001 devote more attention to?’. The results and SCC standards. of this materiality analysis will be used to enrich our corporate objectives and the Objective 2: Talent development envisaged situation in 2028. Our second corporate objective is based on the second part of our mission: we want to provide a platform for our staff to achieve their ambitions and develop their talents. Witteveen+Bos wants to be a company which promotes diversity, inclusion and shared impact. Our corporate culture of trust and entrepreneurship is aimed at ensuring good incompany relationships and caring for each other. We also ensure that employees have optimal job satisfaction and that we have enough in-house talent for career development and promotion to other (management) positions. Finally, we contribute to high-quality technical education and encourage young people to study technical subjects. 12 13 Objective 1 Adding value through projects Marker Wadden, the Netherlands 14 15 VALUE FOR SOCIETY THROUGH OUR PROJECTS Awards Witteveen+Bos was involved in the design phase of the Hoogwatergeul VeessenIn 2019, we worked on over 4,000 projects in 49 countries worldwide. Wapenveld project. This project was awarded the Dutch Construction Prize By offering sustainable solutions in its projects, Witteveen+Bos in the Civil engineering works category. A multidisciplinary design team from can create societal value and contribute to the United Nations’ Witteveen+Bos won the Waterentree Werelderfgoed Kinderdijk competition. Sustainable Development Goals. Our seven sustainable development principles (SDPs) are a key tool in that regard. The design of a green bridge (Bridging Nature) in Lithuania won first prize in the Bridges category at the International Design Awards in Los Angeles. Sustainable development principles Witteveen+Bos was part of the Dutch-Lithuanian design team. Our web-based tool Our SDPs were highlighted internally to design leaders by organising a CityShaper won the Public Prize in the Doe&Durf competition: a prestigious prize course and through other methods of training and communication. To boost for young engineers aimed at innovation and visibility. familiarity and use of our SDPs, a group of four designing PMCs (one from each business line) elaborated the SDPs so that designers throughout the For the Oosterweelverbinding project, Witteveen+Bos won the gold BIM Award in company would know how to apply them in practice and what that delivers. the Infrastructure projects category. The materiality analysis shows a slight decline in familiarity among our employees. At the end of 2019, 80 % of respondents said that they were Together with partners, Witteveen+Bos won De Vernufteling 2019 with the Water familiar with our SDPs. Nearly 43 % of them also considered the principles Factory Wilp. We were also nominated with BlueCan for this award. On pages 20in projects (87 % and 46 % in 2018). The high number of new employees 21, we proudly present these projects as an example of our innovative knowledge joining the company in 2018 and 2019 may play a role in this. development and application in the field of water. SDG Impact Tool Situation in 2028 Naturally, we also want to know the societal value of applying our SDPs. When you visit Witteveen+Bos in 2028, you will find us making a significant We therefore developed our SDG Impact Tool in 2018 and 2019. This tool contribution, in all our activities, to improving sustainability: circular, largely CO₂measures our contribution to achieving the Sustainable Development Goals. neutral, socially and financially sustainable. We have supply-driven operations, On pages 18-19 of this annual report, we present the initial results of a generating complete solutions and investible propositions based on our domain specific part of our project portfolio. knowledge and data, such as development of a fully climate-neutral circular urban district. We are looking for the right partners and work in different roles: sometimes Challenges as an adviser, in other cases as a developer or co-contractor. Potential orders are regularly a challenge for us. They require us to consider issues like ‘Do we want to work on all cases, even if these are a source In 2019, we strengthened and extended our expertise and services with respect of social unrest?’ We have become used to discussing such aspects and to the energy transition, partly the result of our goal for 2018: energy transition. On issues from all perspectives before deciding to put in a bid for a potential pages 22-23, there is an infographic about our integral approach to energy. order. How do we ensure that challenges are discussed and considered appropriately? Our compliance programme aims to create a culture Goal for 2019: CO₂-neutral and circular construction which encourages people to proactively discuss concerns, questions and In 2019, we gave CO₂-neutral and circular construction a permanent place in challenges. In 2019, the Ethics and Compliance Officer received lots of the integral design process. We have made our collection of tools and methods requests for advice every week, particularly about potential conflicts of available, and share our knowledge of them. The tools and methods are also interest and accepting gifts. incorporated in our internal Integral design training. In 2019, we used Industrial, Flexible and Demountable (IFD) construction in the Cruquiusbrug project in North Safety Holland and we engineered and monitored the prize-winning Biobased cycle bridge Construction is one of the least safe sectors for occupational health. The in Ritsumasyl. number of annual fatal and major injury accidents is still unacceptably high. As advisers and engineers, we can make the construction sector safer: by Goal for 2020: participative design considering safety aspects in our design, during the construction phase and Participative design is one of our seven sustainable development principles. In 2020 during supervision and management. This is why Witteveen+Bos signed the we will continue to develop participative design, linking it to the participative pillar Governance Code for Safety in Construction and is part of a leading group under the Environment Act. We often find that a specific subgroup of stakeholders to enforce the Code. In compliance with this code, we anchor the actions participates in our projects. We will consciously seek the influence of all end-users to which we have committed ourselves in the organisation. In the coming on the design and design choices, including those subgroups that do not normally years, we will contribute to the ambition of this code: structural improvement participate. We will also make further use of technology: with digital platforms, virtual of safety in construction. and augmented reality and apps. Not only will this increase the participation scope, but also the participation quality through a higher level of interaction. In 2017, Witteveen+Bos was certified according to the Safety Ladder, level 3 (of 5). Various PMCs have now been included in the scope. Ultimately, Witteveen+Bos aims to fully comply with the requirements in 2021. KPI 2019 Results Innovation 100 % of employees are familiar with the 80 % of employees are familiar with the In 2019, we organised our first SMARTcafé Making sense with data. sustainable development principles. sustainable development principles The aim was to inform and inspire colleagues and relations about digital (measured in a survey among all employees innovations, data and art. We launched the participation-based InBeeld. worldwide). app, and five digital products successfully passed the first scale-up bootcamp. Five teams developed their product further and worked on their 100 % of employees have considered and/or 43 % of employees have applied the business plan and value proposition for customers. Various masterclasses applied the sustainable development sustainable development principles in and workshops were organised as part of the event, which ended with the principles in projects. projects (measured in a survey among all presentation of the Witteveen+Bos award for Art+Technology to Evelina employees worldwide). Domnitch and Dmitry Gelfand. 16 17 SDG IMPACT TOOL The UN’s 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) translate the Measuring the impact in quantitative terms is often harder. huge societal challenges we face into a worldwide action plan to We have therefore compiled a list to measure the effect of our ensure a socially, ecologically and economically sustainable world projects on six factors: the number of people, euros, land area, by 2030. Witteveen+Bos is keen to contribute to this through our cubic metres of water, tonnes of waste and CO₂ emissions. These choice of projects and increasing the impact in projects. are derived from indicators used by the UN to define its SDGs. To ensure that we devote energy to ‘the right projects’ achieving as much Positive effects impact as possible, in 2019 Witteveen+Bos developed the SDG Impact Most of our projects in DAC countries contribute to SDG 6 Clean Tool. The first step was to retrospectively assess a small part of our total water and sanitation. In the projects that we assessed, over 4 project portfolio. This gives an impression of how we currently contribute million people are experiencing a positive effect from clean water to the UN’s SDGs in developing countries. and sanitation. We also have the biggest positive effect in number of people on SDG 13 Climate action, and SDG 11 Sustainable Feasibility studies and design cities and communities. In total, we contributed to the protection Witteveen+Bos works on projects in different phases of development: of 2.3 million people from floods resulting from climate change from feasibility studies to definitive design. Based on the chain idea, and the conditions have improved for over 10 million people in we assume that all these projects can be implemented as advised or cities as a result of our projects. We also have a big impact on designed. However, that’s not always the case. In the tool and in the economic development. This is mainly due to the NCICD project report, we therefore distinguish between feasibility studies and design in Indonesia (2017-2020) which significantly reduces economic projects. losses as a result of flooding. Projects in developing countries Negative effects Witteveen+Bos works on projects in both developing countries (DAC Materials and energy are used in most infrastructural construction countries according to the OESO definition) and other countries. The works. We therefore assume that our projects have a negative current analysis with the SDG Impact Tool only assesses projects in impact on CO₂ emissions. Projects aimed at renewable energy developing countries. In 2019, Witteveen+Bos worked on a total of 75 and circularity are an exception. Our assessed projects also have projects in developing countries. 37 of these projects had the potential a negative impact on water consumption. One of the projects, to make a significant contribution to the UN’s SDGs. 26 of these were a regional drinking water facility in Indonesia, takes so much scored: 11 feasibility studies and 15 design projects. Most of these water from the surrounding area that it puts the total impact of projects were in Indonesia. our projects with respect to water consumption in the red. Water consumption falls under SDG 6 Clean water and sanitation. Cascading Semarang, Indonesia Qualitative and quantitative Because the project has a positive impact on the other indicators Parts of the city of Semarang in Indonesia are sinking at a rate of The projects were first assessed on quality: to which of the UN’s SDGs for this SDG, the overall project scores positively for this SDG. 17 cm a year. Subsidence, landslides and flooding in Semarang did the project make a positive or negative contribution? For example, have a negative effect on the daily lives of the local population. a project in which we are designing a hydropower station in Africa is With rising sea levels, this problem constitutes an increasing expected to improve access to electricity and sustainable energy and challenge for the city. In the kampungs in the northeast of the reduce CO₂ emissions. These projects were then assessed on quantity, city, streets are elevated every few years. However, this is not a for example: how many people now have access to electricity or how structural solution. Project Cascading Semarang wants to turn many people now use sustainable electricity instead of fossil fuels? the tide. By adding the concept of cascades (retain, store and infiltrate water) to the current water management system, 85,500 people will be better protected from flooding and landslides. 600,000 people will also be provided with clean water and 1,300 ha extra agricultural land will be potentially suitable for Positive impact on people 26 projects SDG Impact Tool project Cascading Semarang exploitation. no impact positive impact quantitative impact = 100,000 people insufficient data to sufficient data measure quantatively to measure quantatively 1,300 ha productive farmland added 600,000 people provided with clean drinking water 85,000 people 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 protected from the potential consequences of climate disasters people in millions 18 19 INNOVATIVE WATER PROJECTS BlueCan: lower CO₂ emissions by improved water quality of lakes All over the world, water challenges demand an The recently defined CO₂ reduction goals innovative approach. Solutions now and in the for 2030 and 2050 are ambitious. Surface future must be integral, feasible and affordable waters like lakes are quite significant sources for government, industry and consumers. of CO₂ emissions. Local ponds alone emit as Innovations in water treatment and management much greenhouse gas as 200,000 cars. Joint can supplement traditional solutions and research by Witteveen+Bos and Deltares and stimulate reuse of raw materials and the investigations by Radboud University reveals reduction of CO₂ emissions. an important relationship between the water quality of surface water and greenhouse Witteveen+Bos explores and invests in advanced gas emissions. The poorer the quality of technology, smart systems and linked infrastructure. the water, the more greenhouse gases In partnership with government and industry, we are released. A turbid, algae-rich system also want to develop solutions by using trial and produces considerably more CO₂ emissions pilot projects. Our engineers and advisers work on than a clear, plant-rich system. Indicative sustainable water management in its widest context: calculations show that the difference in accessible drinking water, healthy surface water, emissions can be a factor ten. efficient process water, safe wastewater and flood protection. To determine effective measures, Witteveen+Bos and Deltares developed De Vernufteling ‘BlueCan’. BlueCan presents the greenhouse In 2019, a project on which Witteveen+Bos works gas emissions of lakes and assesses together with partners, Water Factory Wilp, won De the effect of measures to improve the Vernufteling from Koninklijke NLingenieurs. This prize water quality and reduce CO₂ emissions. is awarded to the engineering firm with the most Investments in water quality therefore make innovative project and the winner is selected by a a significant contribution to the required jury of experts. Water Factory Wilp shows a paradigm reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. shift in water treatment by regarding wastewater as a Another advantage is that this water produces source of raw materials, making it possible to close more biodiversity and is more attractive for the raw materials circle. The data-driven BlueCan recreation. tool was also nominated for De Vernufteling. This tool demonstrates in practice how surface water can be More information about Water Factory Wilp used as a solution to CO₂ emissions. The principles and BlueCan is available at witteveenbos. in Water Factory Wilp and BlueCan can potentially be com/annualreport. applied worldwide. Water Factory Wilp: a new approach to wastewater treatment It is estimated that only 4-8 % of wastewater is currently reused worldwide. Water Factory Wilp aims to have a fully circular water treatment system by 2050. In the new water factory, nutrients and waste substances are filtered from the wastewater. These are processed into new raw materials and energy. This minimises the volume of sludge and its impact on the environment, while the water it produces can be used for high quality applications. Various innovative techniques have already been developed to extract energy, nutrients/raw materials from water so that it can be reused. A unique feature of this project is the combination of techniques applied, such as electrocoagulation, dissolved air flotation (DAF), nanofiltration and ion exchangers. Materials that are extracted from the water include phosphate, which can be used as green fertilizer for farming. The cellulose from toilet paper can be given a second life in asphalt. Significant steps are also being taken to remove problem substances like microplastics and pharmaceutical residues from wastewater. Due to its modular structure, it is possible to continue optimising the water factory. Innovations and improved water purification techniques can therefore easily be applied. witteveenbos.com/ar-vernuft 20 21 INTEGRAL APPROACH TO ENERGY Generation Storage Distribution The first shift from fossil to sustainable fuels is already With fluctuating electricity production, storage is inevitable. The best A robust network is essential to efficiently and flexibly manage the One of the most important challenges in the worldwide energy visible in the current landscape. One of the main issues for solution for an energy issue depends on the demand for energy, uncertainties and fluctuations of sustainable energy on a large scale. There transition is how we can combine new, sustainable energy solutions sustainable energy sources such as solar and wind energy, the required flexibility, the amount of energy that is produced from must be coordinated investments in distribution networks such as the natural from production to distribution and use in one integrated system. hydropower and bioenergy is ensuring a reliable supply. The renewable sources and available storage. The costs of a solution are gas grid, the electricity grid and in future heat networks. Many electricity grids With our expertise, we help our customers throughout the value chain fact that certain renewable energy sources depend on the also important. These elements determine the type of technology in Western Europe are being replaced. Decentralised generation as part of from generation, storage, distribution and advice to optimise energy weather continues to pose a challenge. Witteveen+Bos is that is chosen. Witteveen+Bos advises its customers and explores the energy transition demands different, heavier network configurations for consumption. The following infographic shows the range of expertise advising on the Zonnepark Schoorlemmer Pekela Duurzaam the various energy storage options. For example, Witteveen+Bos is high voltage. At the same time, the continuity of existing (and new) systems that Witteveen+Bos has with respect to generation, storage and project. With its high (90 %) local ownership and carefully going to work with companies and universities of applied sciences must be guaranteed. In the Grid at Sea to the north of the Wadden islands distribution of energy. More information about the following projects implemented participation process, no objections or to develop a field lab for green hydrogen production. This will include project, Witteveen+Bos has been commissioned by grid controller TenneT to and range of expertise is available at witteveenbos.com/annualreport. comments have been submitted with respect to this project. the application of green hydrogen, oxygen and heat in industry, produce the environmental impact report and the permit applications for an transport and the built environment. underground high-voltage connection from the North Sea to land. Energy efficiency and reuse Wind energy Tidal energy Industrial energy in buildings Energy storage Residual heat Legislation Energy saving in buildings Solar energy Hydropower Heat storage Soil energy Smart grid Aquathermy Hydrogen Bio energy Geothermal energy witteveenbos.com/ar-energy 22 23 4,026 PROJECTS IN 2019 Selection of projects in our home and export markets Community led multi-modal corridor upgrade United Kingdom Nitrogen issues and policies The Netherlands Dredging Port Liepaja Latvia Marine Access Channels Kazakhstan Expo2020 Dubai Dong Hoi Integrated Coastal Management Vietnam Largest 3D printer for construction Singapore Tollroad Kendal-Semarang Indonesia Oosterweel link Belgium WASH Programme Ghana witteveenbos.com/ar-projects 1-4 5 10 11 70 1,343 projects in Belgium 2,472 projects in the Netherlands 24 25 INTERVIEW Wolferen-Sprok dyke reinforcement project Since the start of the exploratory phase of the Wolferen-Sprok (WoS) dyke reinforcement in 2016, Witteveen+Bos has been working alongside water board Waterschap Rivierenland on the approach to this 13.1-kilometre dyke along the river Waal. This Waaldijk does not fulfil legal standards for flood protection: the dyke is too low and not stable enough. As part of the national Flood Protection programme, Waterschap Riverenland is therefore working on the reinforcement of the dyke. This must be completed by the end of 2024. ‘Attention for people, nature and culture.’ 26 27 ‘Flood protection is serious business. This dyke will keep lots of people safe and dry.’ A library of documentation has already been we’ve tried to ensure that the dyke stakeholder manager for WoS, respectively. In which some kinds of vegetation do well. in the risk dossier. Following that Added value design team produced, including soil research, a spatial reinforcement takes up as little space as this phase, the team is working towards a However, this is to the detriment of other, announcement in May 2019, we were able to The presence of the contractor in the quality report, a perception value study, an possible and that we minimise inconvenience UAV-GC contract (Uniform Administrative protected kinds of vegetation, as well as the switch to our plan B.’ construction team is a great help in this. environmental impact report and a preferred for local farms and other properties involved. Conditions for Integrated Contracts) for the animals and insects which depend on them. Wijnand: ‘If contractors had to calculate all this alternative. All these are products of the We obviously hope that we can finalise the implementation phase. Floris: ‘Usually, I So, too much nitrogen reduces biodiversity. To Adapt fast themselves, I don’t think there would have been exploratory phase. The project is now moving permit application with a minimum of different interact with the client about the contract. control nitrogen emissions, the Dutch By having a ‘plan B’, the design team could the capacity in the current market. Now the into the implementation phase. The contract opinions submitted. We are working to a Now, however, I’m also talking to the government drew up the Integrated Approach adapt fast. However, that didn’t solve the lines are very short. For me, it’s clear that such documents are expected to be finalised at the deadline: 2024 is not very far away.’ contractor, who can immediately say what to Nitrogen (PAS). Soon after the design team problem. Wijnand Jelier: ‘The Wolferen-Sprok a design team works, and that you get solutions end of this year, along with the project plan. impact specific contract terms will have. We started work in spring 2019, on 29 May 2019 dyke reinforcement is being financed from the through working together. We can also So there’s a lot to do before the work starts. De Betuwse Waard design team also chose to draw up some products in this the Council of State (RvS) decreed that the national Flood Protection Programme. That realistically check how we can optimise the For the current plan elaboration phase for phase, which means we already have a PAS had no legal standing. This was means that there are certain conditions implementation by smart use of soil flows and Flood protection WoS, we chose to work together in a design higher level of detail than normal.’ potentially a huge threat for the future of the attached, such as a clear deadline when the discharge. This means fewer movements, less Why are all these preparations necessary? team, comprising experts from the client, project. How do you respond? project needs to be ready. Exceeding the activities, and therefore lower nitrogen Jacqueline Bulsink, WoS project leader for contractor and advisers. De Betuwse Waard As stakeholder manager, Sanne notices this deadline is an expensive business.’ Alice: ‘We emissions. And we can have very concrete Witteveen+Bos: ‘Because flood protection is design team consists of Waterschap too: ‘In our contact with residents, we can Wijnand Jelier, project control manager with therefore proposed an approach with several discussions about what other material is a serious business. The dyke keeps many Rivierenland, contractors’ consortium already offer more clarity about the project Waterschap Rivierenland and Alice Esmeijer, solution directions which we run through in available to do the work and massively reduce people safe and dry. To deal with the Ploegam BV, GMB Civiel and Dura Vermeer than usual. And that’s important to residents ecologist with Witteveen+Bos, are busy parallel to minimise any loss of time.’ As a nitrogen emissions. This helps us move on, changing water situation and safety Infra Landelijke projecten BV and and the neighbouring farms. Buying a strip of thinking up measures to mitigate or result, the final solution will involve a which is necessary with this tight deadline. A regulations, we need to explore together how Witteveen+Bos. This form of collaboration land for the dyke from a farmer has compensate the nitrogen deposition caused combination of measures. Adapting the common challenge also helps create team we can create a robust dyke. This will enable was chosen so that we could make better use consequences for his business operations by the dyke reinforcement project, with no permits of land leased by the water board, so spirit. For example, I’ve never worked so us to respond to the expected rise in the of implementation knowledge, innovative and perhaps the number of cows he may jurisprudence or guidelines to fall back on. that no fertilization takes place with immediate intensively with an ecologist in a project before.’ water level of the river. However, this all takes solutions and expertise. The team is based in have. You need to check all this very carefully.’ effect, is one option. Another is letting plots of Floris: ‘This way of working has given me time. In this project, an important factor is a joint office in Andelst. Alice: ‘This is a massive challenge. In grassland become overgrown. Alice: ‘Nitrogen many valuable experiences. These will be very generating local support. And we also The nitrogen problem Witteveen+Bos, we did anticipate the failure of emissions will then stop as a result of the useful in future projects, in other construction consider the neighbouring farms and nature Floris Oosterhof and Sanne Ruiter represent Nitrogen is another focus for the design team. the PAS. At the start of this project phase, we project. If we can demonstrate that, we’re well teams as well as in other dyke values in the flood plains. From the start, Witteveen+Bos as contract adviser and Too much nitrogen leads to nutritious soil, in therefore identified and incorporated the risk on our way.’ reinforcements.’ 28 29 Objective 2 Talent development Dutch Risk Reduction (DRR) mission, Fiji witteveenbos.com/ar-fiji 30 31 TALENT DEVELOPMENT Situation in 2028 If you visit Witteveen+Bos in 2028, you will find a highly diverse group of Developing top talent is a key corporate people. Diversity on the work floor will be even higher than it is now, and objective of Witteveen+Bos, arising we will be working with a broad range of external professionals. More directly from our mission. We are frequently, you run into people with backgrounds in digital technology, and committed to training and developing the financial or social sectors. Everyone you meet focuses on maximum top talent, increasing diversity, and professional and personal development: Witteveen+Bos is the best place ensuring an adequate inflow of to be for your development after your full-time education, and the employees with the right technical PLUSschool has become an established brand. abilities. This is designed to result in a group of expert employees who are Goal for 2019: Onboarding and development very engaged with their work, their We feel it’s important that new employees soon feel at home, become colleagues, the company, and their own familiar with our working methods and are quickly able to develop. To development. reinforce this, we launched a digital introductory programme in Dutch and English. In 2020, we will continue to deploy this internationally. We will Workforce also be using the experiences of new employees with the programme and On 31 December 2019, Witteveen+Bos during their initial period at Witteveen+Bos to further improve had 1,208 employees worldwide. This Witteveen+Bos in the coming years. corresponds to a net workforce increase of 83 employees or 7.4 %, which is well over Goal for 2020: diversity, inclusion and shared impact the targeted workforce increase of 3 to 5 %. Our objective is best described by a metaphor. We believe it’s important This growth was mainly achieved in the that everyone who is at our party (working at Witteveen+Bos) also dances Netherlands and Belgium where we had (participates) and helps to choose the music (has an influence). In 2020, lots of new employees joining the company we will further promote inclusion and shared impact by developing a and fewer people left. Partly due to the language code, formulating an appointment policy and focusing on better onboarding and development goal, there is discussion techniques. a continued focus on the swift and effective onboarding of new colleagues. The key Measuring talent development figures that provide insight into the For several years, we have reported a talent-development score in our composition of our workforce are available annual report. In 2019, we worked alongside scientists on redefining the on pages 38-39. KPIs for talent development. Using a newly developed questionnaire, at the end of 2019 we asked employees how they can optimally develop PLUSschool for Professionals their talent. The development of our colleagues is achieved through our PLUSschool for The initial observations are that we score high on the results of passion Professionals. Training for designers was and talent recognition, particularly compared with other technical initiated to strengthen their professional companies. The vitality is also good, but this is slightly lower than in other development. For leading professionals, we technical companies. The results will be further analysed in 2020 and will also set up the reflection and development lead to a new KPI definition in 2020. programme. For mid-level colleagues, there is a specific development programme for personal leadership. Worldwide, extra training KPI 2019 Results programmes have been organised. We have also been promoting international exchange The number of interns and final-year In 2019, Witteveen+Bos had 331 interns of knowledge, with specific attention for the students is at least 20 % of the total and final-year students. Compared with training needs in Indonesia and Kazakhstan. workforce of Witteveen+Bos (at 31 our total worldwide workforce of 1,208 December 2018). employees, this amounts to 27 %. Diversity, inclusion and shared impact We are delighted that our workforce is At least 80 % of all employees have had 49 % of all employees have had a job becoming more multiform, because more a job performance interview in the past performance interview in the past two diversity in our project teams adds great two years. years. In 2019, job performance value to projects. Last year, a wide group of interviews were conducted with 31 % of colleagues reflected on how we could better all employees. use the existing diversity to achieve inclusion and shared impact. The number of women We aim for female employees to 14 new partners were appointed in among partners and senior partners has account for 25 % of future partner 2019: 3 women and 11 men. Although increased and is gradually becoming more in nominations. This is a male-female ratio the absolute number of female partners line with the gender ratio in the workforce that corresponds to the gender ratio has increased, the ratio of 21 % falls overall. The growing group of non-Dutch among new colleagues joining the short of the target percentage. colleagues in the Netherlands experiences company. specific challenges. We have provided better support to this group with internal courses in English, Dutch language classes and an English version of the digital introduction programme 32 33 INTERVIEW Developments and growth in Belgium In recent years, Witteveen+Bos Belgium N.V. (WBB) has experienced considerable growth. In 2008, Witteveen+Bos officially acquired a base in Belgium, with an office in Antwerp-Berchem. In 2015, the environmental engineering firm MAVA joined Witteveen+Bos, whereby WBB was also represented in Steenokkerzeel near Brussels. At the end of 2019, a base in Ghent was also acquired. Witteveen+Bos Belgium now has around 130 colleagues in five PMCs. ‘Our strategic vision concerns extending our existing services and developing new themes.’ 34 35 ‘We are also looking for engineers and advisers of various types, particularly civil engineers.’ Mark van Straaten, managing director of Further expansion 2019. This is still a temporary office: the aim is really seen that development. It even gave me projects and that gives me the sense that we going to the pub on the last Friday of the WBB: ‘Two years ago, we launched a long‘In our business plan, in 2018 we started with to have a permanent office in Ghent in 2021, the opportunity to evolve further in my own role: really have something to contribute. That’s month, the party committee...’ term business plan for the further extension of two PMCs, one focused on the environmental which can accommodate more colleagues. from project supporter to HR employee. The important to me. The business culture is also our activities in Belgium. In this plan, we market and the second with infrastructure and There is a strategic reason behind the choice nice thing about working here for so long is that positive: I don’t experience it as very hierarchical Broad view described our strategic vision: what do we space as the theme. At the end of 2019, we then of Ghent. Mark van Straaten: ‘We are looking people know where you are. That means I can and we think about what we’re doing.’ Robin Christofi has been working at WBB for want to do and where do we want to grow to in looked at the opportunities for further expansion. for engineers and advisers of various types, often help new colleagues and give them an four years and was recently promoted to leader the coming years. This covers an extension of That led to a division of the existing PMCs, but particularly civil engineers. Ghent has a idea about how we do things here.’ Buddy system of a group of 3D/BIM designers. With his group, our existing services relating to infrastructure, whereby since January 2020 the organisation civil engineering university and we are keen to As a new employee, Kato is supported he works on Belgian infrastructure projects, like space and environment, as well as the has five PMCs with activities spread over the extend and strengthen our links. We also have Energy through the buddy system at WBB. the Oosterweel connection in which they work development of new themes like energy four business lines of Witteveen+Bos. It offers a several colleagues who live in that region. One of the colleagues whose contract was Experienced colleagues help new colleagues. with lots of Dutch colleagues. That project won transition, circular economy, asset wonderful challenge for the new PMC leaders to Having an office closer to home would drawn up by Sara is Kato De Roos. She joined With his eight years of work experience, soil the BIM Award in 2019. Through his cooperation management, urban development and water achieve the further growth of their own plans obviously reduce their commute to work. Witteveen+Bos in September 2019 and is a expert Jonas Rabaey is a buddy. Jonas is very with Dutch colleagues, Robin has managed to management. We obviously need enough and to seek interaction with the other PMCs Ghent is also practical for us in terms of hydrologist involved in various projects, such as enthusiastic and loves the growth of the bring a lot of expertise to Belgium and to the people to do this. Since the start of 2019, we both in Belgium and the Netherlands. To do this, enabling us to provide a better service to both pioneering with river models. Kato: ‘One of my company. ‘It offers us a lot of development Netherlands. ‘That more or less happened by have welcomed 52 new colleagues. we still need more critical mass. I estimate that East and West Flanders. current colleagues was a doctoral assistant at opportunities. The variety of projects we take itself. Based on my own interests, I often sought Unfortunately, several people have also left we need another 20 to 30 people to fulfil these my university. That’s how I came into contact with on and the challenges are increasing. That the expertise of colleagues, also in Deventer, the company. When you have around 130 ambitions. It’s also a lot of work, because the Growth the company. What I like about Witteveen+Bos is gives a very nice dynamic in our company. It which quickly generated cooperation with other people, these developments have quite an labour market is under pressure in Belgium.’ HR colleague Sara Leys agrees that a lot of its focus on entrepreneurship: we are really gives you the chance to work together with a experts. I’ve now worked with lots of colleagues impact which puts a burden on your effort is being devoted to recruitment. ‘We are encouraged to discover and do all kinds of range of experts. I love that. I’m happy doing and made many friends. It broadens your view organisation. It is also important and New office Ghent very busy at HR, so it’s good that HR is growing things. Professionally, that’s very nice for me too. anything and like to be involved. In my job, but beyond your own region and that’s very challenging to safeguard the DNA of To improve its access to the labour market, too. And that’s happening. I’ve been working for I feel I get a lot of support but also plenty of also in the activities that we organise outside important in the DNA of Witteveen+Bos.’ Witteveen+Bos.’ WBB moved to an office in Ghent at the end of Witteveen+Bos for around eight years and I’ve freedom in my work. We work on socially relevant the projects, such as the New Year’s event, 36 37 PERSONNEL KEY FIGURES Number of employees in Number of Male/female Average Full-Time Equivalents (FTEs) employees ratio age 1,104 > 1,208 > 69/31 37.1 > (2018: 1,025) (2018: 1,125) (2018: 70/30) (2018: 37.6) Staff age distribution Workforce by country 87 48 The Netherlands Latvia over 60 1.001 5 45 59 year > > 4% under 30 Belgium Kazakhstan 154 110 108 42 Different Employees Employees 21 % 32 % nationalities hired leaving United Kingdom Dubai 3 3 43 241 158 43 % > > > Ghana Vietnam 1 3 (2018: 28) (2018: 226) (2018: 155) 30 44 year Indonesia 33 Singapore Employment contracts = 1,208 In-company training and education 9 part-time full-time 1,583 > (2018: 987) 36 % 440 > 64 % 768 > (2018: 419) (2018: 706) Investment training and education (euro) indefinite-term 1,034,268 fixed-term contract contract > 16 % (2018: 765,959) 188 > 1,020 > 84 % (2018: 163) (2018: 962) 38 39 Moving ahead together Expansion and knowledge development Mutual trust, giving each other space and being prepared to grab opportunities. For me, that’s the Three years ago, I embarked on the challenge to help basis for talent development. In my time at expand the infrastructure at Witteveen+Bos in Witteveen+Bos, I’ve been given the scope and trust to Belgium. During this period, I’ve seen a lot change in a fulfil various roles, including financial controller, positive sense. We’ve attracted productive young business controller and since last year, head of talent to put our expertise in Belgium on the map. Controlling. For me personally, a very good step. As Three years ago, we were relatively unknown in the an organisation, we are in a digital transition and that’s field of infrastructure, but we now find that we are the challenge for me in further professionalisation and more visible. We are often in the luxury position of digitisation of the financial business function. What are being able to choose our projects. As PMC leader we made of and how do we use our expertise to offer Infrastructural Development & Management, you are added value for Witteveen+Bos? What is the then looking at the strengths and interests in the imaginary dot on the horizon and how do we get groups. In this way, we develop together with a focus there? In this, I use the interests, expertise and talent on the future. development of everyone in my team. Hendrik Heuker Kristof Myncke Fulfilling ambitions Scope to experiment and innovate The nice thing about Witteveen+Bos is that if I express ambitions here, they are often fulfilled. At the For me 2019 was a year packed with highlights. For beginning of 2019, we received various invitations to example, we launched the Tech Meetups initiative and attend hydrogen presentations by hydrogen experts the Hacking Day, in which colleagues were alerted and then I thought: ‘we can do that too’. So I said I’d during various sessions to the opportunities of digital like the Innovation and Project Development group in and data-driven working. Another highlight was my the PMC Energy Systems to give at least one project leadership of the ‘first’ digital service of presentation about hydrogen in 2019. No sooner said Witteveen+Bos. We professionalised the InBeeld.app than done. Eveline Buter and I gave the first into a web application which everyone can set up and presentation in cooperation with other engineering apply themselves in projects. From my work in projects, firms in the Federation of Technology Sectors. We I always see potential for doing things more smartly in a then established a good basis for the ‘Hydrogen for digital way. As group leader in the Digital Acceleration Dummies’ presentation which I’m regularly invited to and Support Centre, I am fortunately able to put these give. A personal highlight was my presentation to over ideas into practice. My experience is that 600 colleagues in Deventer Theatre at our internal Witteveen+Bos provides the opportunity to experiment, Technical Contact Meeting (TKB) in the autumn 2019, to fail and to try again and that means that I learn every where I expressed the ambition for a Witteveen+Bos day. hydrogen car. I’ll be interested to see when that ambition will be fulfilled! Fenna van de Watering Mattijs Stam 40 41 Flying start Societal impact A flying start is how I’d describe my period at Since I joined Witteveen+Bos in May 2019, I’ve been Witteveen+Bos. I started as a graduate and now I’m involved in many interesting projects, courses and fully involved in projects. My graduation research into events. A highlight was planning and organising our recording design choices won the Silver IPMA-NL Climate Action Workshop in October. I was also lucky prize and the added value of the research is luckily enough to be able to work on projects in the field of also recognised by my colleagues. I’m able to apply it active travel, which is one of my personal passions. I in projects that I’m involved in, like Ring road Utrecht grew up in Sweden, where everyone knows how to and Krammersluizen. I now also supervise a doctoral cycle. As a child, it gave me a sense of freedom and student who’s doing research as a follow-up to my independence (from my parents). I’d love to create a thesis. That’s amazing. But I don’t just want to be ‘the safe active travel infrastructure in the United Kingdom, design choice expert of Witteveen+Bos’. I get very so that children there can experience the same sense excited when I think of a future as a technical manager of freedom that I did. Obesity is also a growing or project leader, working on brilliant integral projects concern here and in the rest of the world. Active and seeing the whole picture and fulfilling it together. travel solutions can play an important role in improving I’m still delighted with my decision to graduate and public health. In my career, I hope to have an impact continue working at Witteveen+Bos. and work on more technical projects which offer solutions for different societal problems. Tara Kinneging Felicia Bjersing Energy from knowledge Biggest 3D concrete printer exchange in South-East Asia At Witteveen+Bos, I feel I’m given a lot of opportunity If someone had told me five years ago that one day I’d to shape my career. From my role as port planner in develop and install the biggest 3D concrete printer in 2001, I’ve been able to develop into PMC leader Port South-East Asia, I probably wouldn’t have believed Development, shipping routes and dredging. In this them. And yet that became reality last year. Since new role, I mainly focus on (talent) development of the joining Witteveen+Bos, I’ve often said that I’d like to PMC. I want to do justice to current and new talent and work abroad. When the opportunity arose to help write offer opportunities for them to further develop into the a tender in Singapore, I took it with both hands. I’ve W+B senior advisers of the future. I was also given the now been in Singapore for over two years and set up a opportunity to be a part-time lecturer in the Ports and Digital Construction group. With this group, we were shipping routes chair at TU Delft, where I can share able to develop the biggest 3D printer in South-East my knowledge and experience from our projects with Asia for a government project in Singapore. This was an the students. And they also enrich my knowledge with important step, which required a lot of cooperation, not all kinds of new insights. That’s a really nice way to only with the client, but also with a local university, exchange knowledge, which gives me energy. robot integrators and suppliers from all over Asia. As a group, we continue to develop via various self-studies, looking for more interesting, innovative projects. Peter Quist Jordy Vos 42 43 Objective 3 Sustainable business operations Plant-e generates electricity with plants, exhibited at the Deventer office 44 45 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS OPERATIONS CO₂ Performance ladder We are proud to have retained full certification Witteveen+Bos also creates value via sustainable in 2019 (in the form of the CO₂ Awareness business operations. We aim to reduce our Certificate) at Level 5 of the CO₂ Performance environmental footprint and to promote reduction of ladder. All measures that we took in 2019 to CO₂ emissions throughout the entire supply chain. limit CO₂ emissions are set out in a separately Improvements in business processes and work published footprint, which is available at www. methods also contribute to more sustainable business witteveenbos.com/about-us/how-we-work/. operations. Start CO₂ Flywheel Subsidy CO2-footprint At the end of 2019, we started an internal Every year we establish our CO₂ footprint in order to subsidy aimed at creating extra CO₂ reduction gain insight into our operational CO₂ emissions. In 2019, in projects. With this subsidy, everyone who we calculated the footprint using conversion factors in knows a CO₂-reducing measure for a project accordance with the values at co2emissiefactoren.nl. The but for which no budget is available by the reported CO₂ footprint per FTE relates to all Witteveen+Bos client can still develop the idea. By working employees worldwide. The footprint comprises three main together with the client, a flywheel in the field elements: business premises, car use, and air travel. We aim of knowledge development, awareness and to reduce emissions in all three areas. market value is created. Because the CO₂ reduction objectives for 2020 had already Situation in 2028 been achieved in 2018, in 2019 a new CO₂ reduction If you visit Witteveen+Bos in 2028, you will find objective was established for 2030. In 2030, CO₂ emissions fully sustainable business operations: circular, of Witteveen+Bos per FTE must be at least 60 % lower than in mostly CO₂-neutral, socially and financially the reference year 2007. sustainable. And we are in the vanguard with our innovative business operations and maximum use of digital options. With KPI 2019 Results our sustainable and innovative business operations, we are a leading example, Our internal CO2 emissions In 2019, a reduction of 50 % per increasing our brand appeal in the market and reduction is in line with the overall FTE was achieved compared to the labour market. target of a 60 % reduction by the reference year 2007. 2030 compared to the reference Goal for 2019: Digital transition year 2007. Extensive digitisation, virtualisation and data availability will also lead to a new digital value Maintain our CO2 Awareness Our certification at Level 5 of the chain in the construction industry. To respond Certificate at Level 5 of the SKAO CO2 Performance Ladder was to this, in 2019 we drew up an agenda for CO2 Performance Ladder and renewed in 2019. our digital transition. On 1 January 2020, obtain certification in accordance our new Digital Acceleration and Support with the new SKAO Quality Centre is strengthening our digital transition Manual 3.0. worldwide. Over the coming years, the Centre will offer support in digitisation in our PMCs and corporate departments and help in the development, sale and control of digital In 2019, we achieved a reduction of 50 % compared to 2007. services. The total CO₂ emissions fell by 344 tonnes, while the workforce grew by 79 FTE. Particularly the reduction of gas consumption, Goal for 2020: Data-driven working the number of air miles and business travel by car have Our aim is for all Witteveen+Bos staff to be resulted in lower CO₂ emissions. data-driven by the end of 2020: that everyone knows what it means and how to apply it in Premises their own work. Domain knowledge of our The lower gas consumption is the result of the switch to a gasemployee is key here, because this enables free office on Leeuwenbrug in Deventer and a limitation of the us to give data our added value. In 2020, we office space in Kazakhstan. Our office in Rotterdam moved need to concentrate further on three important to the sustainably renovated office building Blaak 16, with a conditions to achieve this: digital talent, an BREEAM Excellent sustainability score and a WELL GOLD organisation that enables data-driven working certificate issued by the Well Building Institute. In Utrecht, we and projects where we offer data-driven opened a new office, just a few minutes’ walk from Utrecht services. Working with data also demands an Central station. ethical and moral framework. Attention will be devoted to this, alongside the technical and Mobility substantive elaboration. While there has been a reduction in business travel by car, business travel by public transport has increased. CO₂ emissions from travelling by public transport is much lower per kilometre, generating a net reduction. 46 47 BUSINESS OPERATIONS KEY FIGURES EMISSIONS PER SCOPE IN TONNES OF CO2 SCOPE 1 227 > 377 Use of public transport for business and Use of private cars for business purposes (km) District heating commuting purposes (km) (hot water in gigajoule) 2,689,685 > 626 > 696 10,281,387 > (2018: 2,924,410) 1,042 > 2019 Subtotal: 853 2018 Subtotal: 1,073 Company cars for business purposes Gas consumption (2018: 8,064,502) (2018: 548) Use of company cars for business purposes (km) The number for 2019 also includes the energy conSCOPE 2 Business purposes sumption of the Rotterdam and Steenokkerzeel office 2019: 4,312,737 (2018: 2,280,764) > 1,005,898 > 17 60 > 122 > 29 174 Commuting purposes (2018: 869,160) Electricity consumption 2019: 5,968,650 > (2018: 5,783,738) Air travel Use of company cars for business purposes (l) District heating 136,392 531 > 578 > Gas consumption in office buildings (m 3) Use of private cars for business purposes (2018: 169,831) 116,725 > 630 > 748 Use of public transport for business purposes (2018: 199,490) 9 Use of private cars for commuting 2019 23 > 2018 Business travel with electric purposes (km) Subtotal: 1,382 Subtotal: 1,538 company cars 3,301,896 > SCOPE 3 18 > 2 (2018: 3,240,623) Air travel (km) 168 > 140 Use of company cars for commuting 3,810,927 > Electricity consumption (kWh) purposes (km) (2018: 4,659,345) 1,345,771 > Paper use 881,006 > (2018: 1,479,264) 105 > 103 Use of private car for commuting purposes (2018: 699,251) 650 > 643 Use of public transport for commuting purposes Heating/cooling (diesel in litres) 2019 2018 Use of company cars for Subtotal: 941 Subtotal: 888 commuting purposes 1,975 Emissie per fte in ton CO 2 Paper use (kg) (2018: no data) 2,86 > 15,244 > TOTAL (2018: 3,41) (2018: 23,638) 3,177 > ton CO2 Total: 3,499 2019 2018 48 49 Objective 4 Economic Value Oosterweel Antwerp Belgium 50 51 ECONOMIC VALUE SUMMARISED ANNUAL RESULTS 2019 Witteveen+Bos aims to achieve healthy financial results. A sound financial CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (before profit appropriation) 31 DECEMBER 2019 31 DECEMBER 2018 basis is an important basic requirement that enables the company to create long-term value for our stakeholders. Assets Healthy results Intangible fixed assets 1,718 2,123 The consolidated balance sheet of Witteveen+Bos N.V. shows that the balance sheet Tangible fixed assets 22,426 21,268 total has increased compared to 2018, particularly due to work in progress. The Financial fixed assets + 2,232 2,204 balance of work in progress and debtors slightly fell in 2019 in our own organisation. In our joint ventures, a total increase of 3.2 million euros was achieved. On balance, Fixed assets 26,376 25,595 the solvency increased to 45.7 % (2018: 41.5 %). Other financial key figures are set out on page 54. Work in progress 15,837 11,986 Accounts receivable 22,931 23,816 The 2019 profit and loss account shows that we generated a higher turnover in 2019. Cash and cash equivalents + 14,325 14,738 Our autonomous revenue has risen considerably. The higher turnover was translated into a considerable increase in the net result and a rise in the net profit margin up to Current assets + 53,093 50,540 11.1 %. 79,469 76,135 Situation in 2028 If you visit Witteveen+Bos in 2028, you will immediately see that we are working on design and consultancy projects similar to what we do now. We are also continuously Liabilities developing new products and services in a mix of earning models. We are collaborating with many partners in an ecosystem that allows us to be joint shareholders of a Group equity 36,340 31,595 development, earning profits together. Provisions 6,631 5,278 Goal for 2019: Working capital In 2019, we devoted special attention to reducing our working capital. In 2019, a Long-term liabilities 9,010 10,045 leading group with members from five PMCs and the Finance department studied Current liabilities + 27,488 29,217 which measures are effective. Various changes in the organisation (e.g. use of the project administrator business line), working methods (e.g. standard payment Total liabilities + 36,498 39,262 regulations in tenders) and tooling (e.g. for the calculation of cash flow) will be structurally anchored. The internal Project management training courses will also be 79,649 76,135 modified accordingly. Their findings and best practises will be shared and rolled out in the rest of the company. CONSOLIDATED PROFT-AND-LOSS ACCOUNT 2019 2018 Goal for 2020: Share participation scheme Since 1992, the employees have owned the Witteveen+Bos shares. For a healthy share Net turnover participation scheme, it is important to have enough shares available in the future for Net turnover including changes in work in progress 145,015 132,857 new members and enough room for new partners. It is also important that new partners, premium and senior partners can arrange the funding with the increasingly stricter banks. Costs Over the past year, a long-term study of the share participation scheme was undertaken. Subcontracted work 28,817 31,787 We will implement the results in the coming years. Salaries and wages 55,168 49,563 Social security and pension premiums 14,419 12,647 Coronavirus crisis Depreciation of (in)tangible fixed assets 2,799 2,320 We have recently been faced with the coronavirus crisis. The three most important potential Other operating costs + 23,458 20,886 effects for Witteveen+Bos are an increase in accounts receivable and lower productivity due to lower capacity an increase in sick-leave. We are therefore currently being cautious 124,661 117,203 with further personnel growth and with investments in housing, for example. Another important focus is on liquidity, maintaining our productivity and the health of our employees. Operating result 20,354 15,654 Interest paid (on balance) 281 308 KPI 2019 Results Result before taxation 20,073 15,346 Annual growth (own) In 2019, Witteveen+Bos N.V. realised a revenue of EUR 145.0 turnover from 3 to 5 % million, a 9.2 % increase compared to 2018 (2018: 132.9 million Results of other participations + 230 + 103 euros). The autonomous revenue amounted to 116.2 million euros (2018: EUR 101.1 million). Result before taxation 20,303 15,449 (including other participations) Annual workforce growth The workforce grew by 7.4 % from 1,125 to 1,208 employees. from 3 to 5 % Taxation 4,242 4,185 Annual net profit margin The net result in 2019 amounted to 16.1 million euros, yielding a Net profit 16,061 11,264 of at least 8 % net profit margin of 11.1 %. (amounts in thousands of euros) 52 53 FINANCIAL KEY FIGURES NOTES TO THE 2019 ANNUAL AUDITOR’S REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS To the Supervisory Board and the Board of Directors This annual report sets out the balance sheet and profit and loss account Witteveen+Bos N.V. of Witteveen+Bos N.V., and the accounting principles for preparing the consolidated key figures. Please refer to the consolidated 2019 annual report Auditor’s opinion as lodged with the Chamber of Commerce Trade Register for full disclosure The summarised annual results for 2019 presented on page 53 of the assets and the results of Witteveen+Bos N.V. (hereinafter referred to as the ‘summarised annual results’) of Witteveen+Bos N.V. in Deventer are derived from the audited 2019 Turnover EBITDA Net profit Preparation of the consolidated annual figures annual results of Witteveen+Bos N.V. in thousands of euros in thousands of euros in thousands of euros The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. The annual financial statements are based In our opinion, the enclosed summarised annual figures are 145,015 > 23,383 > 16,061 > on historical cost. Update of policies consistent with the audited 2019 annual figures of Witteveen+Bos N.V. in all material respects and are based on the accounting principles as set out in the Notes. (2018: 132,857) (2018: 18,077) (2018: 11,264) Up to and including the financial year 2018, the cost of major maintenance of buildings and land was charged to the operating result on the date the costs The summarised annual figures comprise the consolidated balance were incurred. Pursuant to RJ-Uiting 2019-14 (Dutch Accounting Standards), sheet as at 31 December 2019, the 2019 consolidated profit and the accounting policies have been updated as from the 2019 financial loss account, and the accompanying Notes. solvency Net working capital Net profit margin year. From now on, the cost of major maintenance will be accounted for as a percentage in thousands of euros as a percentage in accordance with the accounting policy described in the paragraph Paragraph to emphasise the impact of the Coronavirus crisis ‘Accounting policies for measurement of assets and liabilities’. The update The Coronavirus crisis is having an impact on Witteveen+Bos N.V. 45.7 % 25,605 11.1% > > > of this policy was prospectively applied in compliance with the transition too. In the Board of Directors’ Report on page 5 and at Corporate provision set out in RJ 212.805. This update of the accounting policy for this Objective 4 Economic value on page 52, the Board of Directors item does not affect the opening position of 1 January 2019. The effect on explains the current impact and its plans to deal with these events (2018: 41.5 %) (2018: 21,324) (2018: 8.5 %) the 2019 result and equity as at 31 December 2019 amounts to EUR 0. or circumstances. They also indicate that it is currently impossible for them to assess the effect of the Coronavirus crisis on the Consolidation financial performance and health of Witteveen+Bos N.V. Our Insofar as actual policy-making influence exists, subsidiaries have been opinion has not been adapted with respect to this crisis. included in the consolidated financial statements. Joint ventures have been consolidated in proportion to the share held in the company. Summarised annual figures Participation in employee share ownership scheme The summarised annual figures do not contain all the disclosures at 1 July 2019 Principles for the measurement of assets and liabilities required by Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. Reading the Land and buildings are measured at acquisition cost, minus cumulative summarised annual figures and this accompanying auditor’s report, participants depreciations and impairments, if any. The depreciations are based on the is therefore no substitute for reading the audited annual figures of seniorand expected future economic life, applying a fixed percentage of the acquisition Witteveen+Bos N.V. and the accompanying auditor’s report. The premiumcost and taking any residual value into account. Depreciation starts on the summarised annual figures and the audited annual figures do not partners date of first use. Land is not subject to depreciation. The costs of major reflect the effects of events that have occurred since the date of our 17.3 % maintenance are capitalised in accordance with the component approach. auditor’s report on those audited annual figures (25 March 2020). 585 The depreciations are based on the expected future economic life of the 23.4 % 59.3 % component, applying a fixed percentage of the acquisition cost and taking The audited annual figures and auditor’s report (2018: 551) any residual value of the component into account. We expressed an unqualified audit opinion on the audited annual 20 and 10 figures of Witteveen+Bos N.V. for 2019 in our auditor’s report dated partners Financial fixed assets include non-consolidated interests in participations 25 March 2020. (2018: 20 and 10) and partnership firms. Participating interests are measured in accordance with the equity method. Projects in progress for third parties are measured Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the based on costs incurred, plus the profit attributable to the projects Supervisory Board for the summarised annual figures performed, less any losses foreseeable at the balance sheet date. Profits The Board of Directors is responsible for preparing the summarised 88 attributed to projects in progress are recognised based on the percentage annual figures based on the accounting principles as set out in the of completion of the projects at the balance sheet date. Invoiced instalments Notes. The Supervisory Board is responsible for supervising the (2018: 82) for projects in progress are deducted from the projects in progress. Trade company’s financial reporting processes. accounts receivable included in receivables are recognised less a provision for doubtful accounts. Our responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion on whether the Internal price of Witteveen+Bos N.V. Provisions are created for deferred tax liabilities, tax risks, warranties and summarised annual figures are consistent in all material respects share at 1 July 2019 in euros claims, procedures and inspections, deferred employee remuneration, and with the audited annual figures, based on our procedures, which liabilities in respect of participating interests. were conducted in accordance with Dutch law, including the Dutch 5.60 > Standard on Auditing 810 ‘Engagements to report on summary Principles for determination of the consolidated financial result financial statements’. Net turnover and changes in work in progress include the services invoiced, (2018: 5,83) excluding value-added tax, and include the changes in work in progress. Revenues of projects are presented in proportion to the work completed. Amsterdam, 25 March 2020 Salaries include remuneration paid to the Board of Directors. The pension liabilities are measured in accordance with the ‘payable to the pension fund’ Deloitte Accountants B.V. method. signed by: A.J. Heitink RA 54 55 COLOPHON Text Witteveen+Bos Layout and design Houdbaar Printed by Ovimex Photos and illustrations Bart van Overbeeke Fotografie Bram Goots Cynthia Boll De Urbanisten Evert van de Worp Houben Van Mierlo Architecten HZMBA Isabelle Renate la Poutré Lantis Levvel OKRA Landschapsarchitecten Peter Leenen Straystone Rijkswaterstaat Schartman Fotografie en Waterschap Vechtstromen Shutterstock.com Toerisme Limburg Viorica Cernica Witteveen+Bos Witteveen+Bos N.V. Leeuwenbrug 8 Postbus 233 7400 AE Deventer The Netherlands t +31 570 69 79 11 e info@witteveenbos.com i www.witteveenbos.com Enschede Trade Register no. 55094503 WE SUPPORT 56 www.witteveenbos.com
