Sustainability Report 2019 SUCCESS BEYOND NUMBERS Foreword This year marks the launch of our first sustainability report. This document, which is a complementary source of information to our annual report, highlights the journey towards integrating our sustainability vision into our strategy and operations, and showcases our key actions aimed at embedding our role as a responsible and caring corporate citizen. This report covers the initiatives of MCB Group Limited for the period spanning 1 July 2018 to 30 June 2019, unless otherwise stated. Any information not pertaining to the perimeter and reporting period previously stated is clearly highlighted. On every issue reported in this document, MCB Group Limited strives to explain how it manages and tackles the issues through its policies, commitments, goals and initiatives. In this report, the terms ‘MCB Group Ltd’ or ‘Group’ refer to the activities of MCB Group Limited, including all its subsidiaries. On the other hand, the terms ‘MCB Ltd’, ‘MCB’ or ‘Bank’ refer to the Mauritius Commercial Bank Limited i.e. the banking activity of MCB Group in Mauritius. There were no significant changes in the organisation’s size, structure, ownership or supply chain during the last financial year. Of note, Group policies are applicable across the whole organisation. Initiatives mentioned in the report mostly cover Mauritian operations though some key performance indicators relate to our global operations. Where possible, this report has strived to adopt the GRI standards as determined by the Global Reporting Initiative. This report has not been externally assured. For any questions regarding the content of this document, please contact: Vanessa Doger de Spéville Head of Communication vanessa.dogerdespeville@mcb.mu or Stéphane Lebon Project Lead – Sustainability stephane.lebon@mcb.mu Success Beyond Numbers 1 Contents 1 Foreword 4 Taking stock one year later: A conversation with Pierre Guy Noël, Alain Law Min and Raoul Gufflet 10 Overview of our organisation 10 MCB Group at a glance 11 Some perspective… 11 Value distribution 12 Where we operate 14 Introduction to our sustainability strategy 16 A bit of history... 17 The Mauritian context & challenges 18 Prioritising issues using the Gapframe analysis 20 Introducing material issues 22 Direct & indirect impacts 24 Stakeholder engagement 26 ‘Success Beyond Numbers’ 32 ‘Success Beyond Numbers’ governance 34 Behaving responsibly 36 Ethics & integrity 38 Business transparency and human rights risks 39 Responsible data 40 Product responsibility 42 External sustainability initiatives 2 Success Beyond Numbers 44 Investing in local economic development 46 ‘Lokal is Beautiful’: the rationale behind the first pillar 50 Socio-economic footprint of MCB Ltd’s activities 52 Tax responsibility 53 Financial services 54 Lobbying 54 Procurement practices 55 Microfinance 57 Next steps 58 Investing in our cultural and environmental heritage 60 Direct environmental impacts of MCB Ltd 64 Carbon footprint of MCB Ltd 66 Indirect environmental impacts of MCB Ltd 68 Climate assessment & strategy 70 Partnership with the Mauritian Wildlife Foundation 72 Partnership with Ebony Forest 74 Positive impact products: the Green Loan 76 Culture 79 Next steps 80 Investing in individual and collective well-being 82 Labour practices and decent work 84 Training and talent development 87 Diversity 89 Well-being at work 92 Customer accessibility and inclusiveness 95 Corporate social responsibility (CSR) 97 Next steps 98 GRI reference table Success Beyond Numbers 3 Foreword Taking stock one year later A conversation with Pierre Guy Noël (PGN), Alain Law Min (ALM) and Raoul Gufflet (RG). MCB Group launched its corporate sustainability programme, ‘Success Beyond Numbers’ last November. A few months down the line, how would you assess its overall impact? PGN: I think it is highly positive that we to integrate sustainable development employees and our corporate have managed to bring our employees to our banking activities as a way sustainability programme, together together around this theme and that to involve our customers. These are with a keen interest from external they have actually taken control of obviously long-term goals – to make stakeholders. And that is great news the various initiatives launched as sustainability not only part and parcel since it is an important project for part of the programme. The harder of our business but to make sure the Group. As you know, sustainable part now will be to rally a bigger it is embedded therein. But more development, digitalisation and audience around our sustainability importantly, ‘Success Beyond Numbers’ international expansion are the three initiative, be they our clients or is the reiteration of our core and strategic thrusts for MCB. third parties with whom we interact historical values. This implies that we The sustainability programme will on a permanent basis. The ‘Lokal is have a responsibility towards people, also help us to be more focused in our Beautiful’ report and conference were businesses and their prosperity. approach, which in turn will have a successful because they appealed to bigger impact when communicating a wide public. We now want to launch ALM: The outcome was very positive; on our strategy. This will also give similarly impactful initiatives. And for it exceeded my own expectations. And us a structure that will help us to that to happen, we are working on a as Pierre Guy said – internally, there execute our planned actions for the roadmap to guide our actions. We seek was a genuine alignment between future. The continued success of this 4 Success Beyond Numbers programme will depend on our ability to rally our stakeholders around important subjects, like with ‘Lokal is Beautiful’. This will require that we What are MCB Group’s shortand make proactive choices on initiatives long-term priorities in terms of rather than reacting to what our sustainable development? customers request from us. This not only means more visibility but also PGN: MCB Group remains primarily a that we stand ready to be challenged. banking group and so it follows that MCB Group has historically favoured our initiatives need to revolve around a discreet and neutral approach and financing. This means that we will this will have to change because we find ourselves in a situation where will be called upon to express our we would either need to refuse to viewpoints on several issues, including grant financing – which is tricky – or sensitive ones. perhaps provide more attractive terms The continued success of this programme will depend on our ability to rally our stakeholders around important subjects, like with ‘Lokal is Beautiful’ RG: I concur; the outcome was to encourage best practices while very positive and I believe we have offering a higher interest rate as a surprised our employees as well as deterrent for some activities. I also the public in general when we came think we need to determine a few forward with this initiative. I do not priorities locally, like the sorting of think they expected MCB Group to waste for recycling, and this holds true voluntarily open a discussion about both in-house or generally in Mauritius. the socio-environmental consequences of its activities. By doing so, we ALM: I agree. The preservation of have expressed our wish to make our environment is a major theme sustainability part of our DNA. I would going forward and because we are an also like to point out that the three island, the impacts, whether negative pillars supporting our initiative – or positive, are felt more acutely and local economy, preservation of the rapidly. I agree we should focus more environment and promotion of culture on waste recycling and the circular and of individual and collective welleconomy and I think that the Group being – show that the challenges faced needs to take the lead on issues such by Mauritius are those faced by the as the overuse of pesticides or climate rest of the world. change that leads to beach erosion. Success Beyond Numbers 5 Foreword RG: Definitely; the protection of the environment and climate are not only moral emergencies for Mauritius but they are also vital to the tourism Financial institutions across the industry. And yet, such requirements world seem to become more and for an attractive tourism industry are more aware that with financial often neglected, whether by the public power comes responsibility – in the or the authorities. There are obviously sense of what is financed or not. other priorities – like the development What is your take on this evolution – of a prosperous local economy that be it of banks or the market? promotes best practices because the younger generations do not believe PGN: Banks that decide not to finance in growth at any cost and they are some sectors are still the exception favourable to responsible and ethical rather than the rule but I think that growth, the ability to trace the origin over time, this will change. As far as of raw materials and the importance we are concerned, we would rather of shorter supply chains… I also think lead the way than be followers, and it is high time that we take a critical locally we have already moved in this look at the educational system in direction. We should however keep Mauritius, to make it more integrated the same mind-set at the international and inclusive of the person, culture, level regardless of our relative size historical heritage. I would also like to with respect to foreign peers. That add that gender equality is a subject being said, it is true that we ought which is very close to my heart; It also to critically assess our portfolio happens to be a sensitive one, whether of financing activities in terms of in Mauritius or in the Group. Although sustainable development, particularly we have improved on the subject within our energy and commodities internally, we will further promote the activities, although it should be involvement of more women within highlighted that the latter currently our organisation, which has historically contribute to the socio-economic been characterised by a hierarchical development of the African continent. and seniority driven structure. And we will have to be in a position to take a stance in the light of this assessment while at the same time launch positive initiatives on issues such as climate and carbon emissions. ALM: It is true that there is a real trend that is not only gaining traction but also accelerating. Much of the wealth that has been created by baby boomers will soon be passed on to the next generation of millennials, who will be guided by different values and criteria in their investment 6 Success Beyond Numbers decisions. Therefore, we will have to PGN: It is true… and let us not forget anticipate how the new generation that digitalisation also helps us save on will look at the financing role of resources such as paper. It also allows banks in the next 10 to 15 years. And Digitalisation is also a challenge for the younger generation to be even as Pierre Guy rightly says, we will banks. What links this revolution to more aware of social issues and to need to take a stand on some of our sustainable development? make decisions accordingly, whether current financing activities. Because it is in the form of boycotting some of our relative size, our actions will ALM: Two years ago, at a World Bank businesses or favouring others – they be felt sooner and whatever has Conference, the founder of Airbnb have the power to do it. been successfully implemented here said that digitalisation helped connect can then be replicated elsewhere, customers to those that could offer RG: As far as I am concerned, be it in Seychelles, the Maldives or a service, no matter how small they sustainability and digitalisation Madagascar, or even in Africa through were, hence contributing to the converge. And Pierre Guy is right when our ‘Bank of Banks’ initiative where development of communities, societies he says that when you combine the two, we can assist the continent’s banks in and economies. There is an untold you can target the younger generation. having a greater impact. In Mauritius potential with digitalisation because And our ‘JuiceByMCB’ mobile banking and in our region, I believe that it encourages the notion of sharing service with over 260,000 subscribers preserving our ocean and its riches will and the creation of ecosystems. What is our biggest digital success story; it become a major challenge for banks. people need is to acquire a house or is testament to the fact that we have a car, or plan for their retirement, and ridden the wave. That being said, I think RG: We have recently refused to finance a coal-bagasse power plant and this is a first. What makes the situation more interesting is the fact In the future, a business will be judged on its that this has led to a very enlightening ability to integrate sustainability at the heart discussion with the promoters on alternatives to coal. So we are very of its activities. clearly on the right path but we need to be able to make our stand clear on such issues while finding a way to live digitalisation can help banks to create that digitalisation is now mainstream up to our responsibilities to our clients. and integrate a number of ecosystems, because many companies have had to It might be of interest to note that by becoming useful to the customer; bridge the gap to remain relevant. For we have decided to join the United what matters is not necessarily our me, digitalisation should be seen as a Nations Environment Programme products and services but the way means to sustainable innovation. In the Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) Principles we can help the client, whether he future, a business will be judged on its for Responsible Banking. This will is an individual or an entrepreneur. ability to integrate sustainability at the provide us with a structural framework And it can be all done easily and heart of its activities. that will enable us to measure impacts rapidly via an app, for instance. so as to better define our future plans This reinforces our social purpose of actions going forward. and that is how sustainability and digitalisation converge. Digitalisation also helps with financial literacy and responsible banking, by bringing more transparency. Success Beyond Numbers 7 Foreword understanding that everybody had a role to play. People liked that and they also understood why shorter supply The Bank recently launched the chains were important, for instance, ‘Lokal is Beautiful’ (LIB) Scheme or why the work done by ‘Made for the local market. Why do the in Moris’ mattered. This initiative Group’s actions and impacts in coupled with the ‘Lokal is Beautiful’ Mauritius matter? Scheme showcases the strength of the MCB brand in the SME sector or PGN: There would be no “Group” if it even in what I would call the quasihad not been for Mauritius where we informal sector. On the other hand, have had a well-established presence I honestly think it could potentially for 181 years. Our international be premature to export this scheme activities are very important because to other shores. Maybe we should the size of our home market limits take our time and apply the concept our growth, but our roots are here. to another pilot country like the More importantly, Mauritius is our Seychelles or Madagascar prior to a laboratory. It is here that we develop full deployment in other countries our knowledge and build our capacity where we are present. and this allows us to reproduce our success stories elsewhere. Everything ALM: MCB remains the reference that works here can be reproduced on bank in Mauritius. We have a other markets whether by us alone or material presence here. This confers in partnership with other banks. The responsibility on us and we are aware number of big businesses is limited in that we should adequately shoulder Mauritius but the many smaller ones this responsibility. With a strong are as important because they create leadership position across segments, jobs and develop the economy. everything we do has an impact here. We have over one million bank RG: ‘Lokal is Beautiful’ is but a proof accounts and this means that at least of our social responsibility and in fact, one member of every Mauritian family it was a big success. We demonstrated has a bank account with us. There that in cases where we did not have are some 125,000 small businesses the required expertise, we could in Mauritius i.e. those employing less go abroad and get it and this is than 10 employees, and it is our duty something that is not necessarily to accompany the local entrepreneurs ingrained in local culture. What the in the development of their activities, ‘Lokal is Beautiful’ report did was to beyond just providing loan facilities. generate a debate on economic leaks, This imposes on us the need to be disseminate an economic problem to creative by using technology to assist a greater audience with the resulting efficiently the smaller businesses. 8 Success Beyond Numbers retail market. Being such a substantial economic player, we clearly have the responsibility of reconciling Is sustainable development the economy with society. But it is compatible with strong economic important not to be patronising when performance? Or are there areas that we do this nor should we give the could be problematic? impression that we are substituting ourselves to the authorities. ALM: I believe that there are a number of areas of compatibility. PGN: Let us not forget that we are MCB’s support of the local businesses currently in a position where we can over the years has contributed to afford to do it. Let us consequently the development of the economy be the pioneer in this respect rather We are reaching a situation where we will have to make choices as regards projects that we will or will not finance, or that we would finance at substantially less favourable terms and conditions. and society, which in turn helped than wait for another entity to take the Bank to grow. There could be the lead. We are reaching a situation issues especially with respect to the where we will have to make choices exclusion of some activities that would as regards projects that we will or make financing problematic. But will not finance, or that we would this will require a public stand from finance at substantially less favourable MCB on those issues and an honest terms and conditions. The difficulty conversation with stakeholders. obviously is to be able to do that without compromising our banking RG: Yes, it is true, but the fact of the activities. It is our responsibility to matter is that we do not have the accompany this evolution that is in any choice. We are at the very core of event inevitable but we need to do economic activities in this country, so by raising awareness and through with over 40% of the corporate loans education, so that we can all move in market share and around 38% of the the same direction. Success Beyond Numbers 9 Overview of our organisation MCB Group at a glance MCB Group Limited (denoted as ‘MCB Group Ltd’ or ‘Group’) is The Group’s main subsidiary, the Mauritius Commercial Bank the ultimate holding company of the Group. The subsidiaries Limited (denoted as ‘MCB Ltd’, ‘MCB’ or ‘Bank’) is the leading and associates of the Group operate under three clusters, i.e. bank in Mauritius. The Group is also a prominent financial ‘Banking’, ‘Non-banking financial’, and ‘Other investments’. services provider in the region. As at 30 June 2019 Now doing business in 60 Branches and kiosks, including 50 countries 40 in Mauritius Staff Assets 3,617 Rs 471.2 billion Client base Market capitalisation Shareholders ~ 1,062,100 Rs 69 billion 20,426 MCB Group operating income* by cluster Rs 21.1 bn MCB Group asset mix Rs 471.2 bn Other Investments 2% Other assets 7% Non-Banking Financial 7% Cash and cash equivalents* 18% Banking 91% Investment securities 21% Net loans (incl. placements) 54% * Figures displayed are prior to the eliminations of * Including mandatory balances and placements. inter-company transactions. 10 Success Beyond Numbers Some perspective… As mentioned earlier, MCB Group is both an important In the worldwide banking industry however, the Group local player – via its main subsidiary MCB Ltd, the longestremains a relatively small player. As such, our corporate standing bank in Mauritius – and a provider of financial and sustainability measures will be much more impactful at the non-financial services in the Indian Ocean region and Africa. local and regional level than internationally. MCB Group’s relative size Local peers MCB Group’s relative size Regional & international peers Total assets in Rs m as at 31 December 2018 Total assets in USD bn as at 31 December 2018 HSBC Ltd (Mauritius Branch) 28,691 MCB Group Ltd (Mauritius) 12 Bank One 40,006 Investec Ltd (South Africa) 45 Barclays Bank Mauritius Limited 111,187 Nedbank Group Ltd (South Africa) 73 HSBC (Mauritius) Ltd 117,869 Absa Group Ltd (South Africa) 90 AfrAsia Bank 126,567 FirstRand Ltd (South Africa) 110 SBM Holding Ltd Group 226,374 Standard Bank Group Ltd (South Africa) 148 MCB Group 417,179 BNP Paribas SA (France) 2,337 Source: Annual reports of respective companies HSBC Holdings PLC (UK) 2,558 JPMorgan Chase & Co (USA) 2,623 Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (Japan) 2,813 Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd (China) 4,027 Source: S&P Global Market Intelligence, 2019 Value distribution There is perception and then there is reality. The perception its core business and they generate financial flows for its is that banks get rich through interests paid by their stakeholders who have the legitimate expectation that the clients. The truth is that the Group seeks to help its clients Group will deliver. prosper, irrespective of who they are, and creates value for The following charts describe how value is generated by the its stakeholders. MCB Group’s banking activities remain Group and shared among its stakeholders. Evolution of wealth created by the Group FY 2018 FY 2019 Rs 14.0 bn Rs 16.9 bn Society 0.6% Society 0.7% Authorities 14.5% Authorities 12.1% Providers of capital 16.2% Providers of capital 16.0% Employees 26.7% Employees 25.1% Retention to support growth 42.0% Retention to support growth 46.1% Retention to support growth Providers of capital Society Wealth is allocated to support future business We provide shareholders with We contribute to the welfare of growth via our retained earnings. dividend payout. the society in which we live and work via funds assigned for CSR Employees Authorities activities and sponsorships. Our value proposition comprises competitive We assist Authorities by funding rewards and benefits with particular emphasis on national projects through payment the personal and career development of our staff. of direct and indirect tax. Success Beyond Numbers 11 Overview of our organisation Where we operate Headquartered in Mauritius where its main subsidiary contribution encompassing economic growth and operates, the Group has a notable presence in the Indian socio-economic development. Individual and collective Ocean region and sub-Saharan Africa through its three well-being as well as environmental conservation and/or foreign subsidiaries, two foreign associates and four foreign cultural resilience are also part of the focus. representative offices. While MCB Group’s banking activities contribute to the economic growth of the countries The chart below maps our countries of operation against where it operates, it has had to reckon with substantial their most important sustainability issues as defined under environmental or social issues faced by some of them. the Gapframe1 analysis and the Human Development Index2. These internationally recognised tools provide useful In order to better understand and overcome those information on the sustainability context of the countries in challenges, locally adapted approaches were taken in the which we do business. respective countries. This allowed for a more inclusive Banking subsidiaries of the Group Representative offices of the Bank Group associate (BFCOI) Group associate (Société Générale Moçambique) HDI score Very High > 0.800 France/La Réunion/Mayotte = 0.901 United Arab Emirates = 0.863 Rs 367.9 m High 0.700 0.799 57 employees Mauritius = 0.790 Rs 766.2 m Seychelles = 0.797 202 employees Maldives = 0.717 Rs 282.2 m Rs 17,583 m 125 employees 2,861 employees Medium 0.550 0.699 Kenya = 0.590 South Africa = 0.699 Low < 0.550 Madagascar = 0.519 Mozambique = 0.437 1 The Gapframe analysis translates the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) into relevant issues and priorities for all nations, adding and amending aspects where needed (http://gapframe.org/). It was developed by a Swiss cross-sector initiative called the Swiss Sustainability Hub (SSH), which includes government & non-government institutions such as the WBCSD, WWF, IISD, Swiss Environmental Agency, universities and business schools, as well as companies like Swisscom, Migros, Unilever and IKEA. 2 The Human Development Index (HDI) is a tool developed by the United Nations to measure and rank countries’ levels of social and economic development. The index combines four major indicators: life expectancy, mean and expected years of schooling, and Gross National Income per capita. 12 Success Beyond Numbers © Gapframe 2017 Madagascar Maldives Average of 4 dimensions: 5.5 Average of 4 dimensions: N/A 1. Biodiversity 1. Biodiversity 24. Transparency 10 2. Carbon quotient 24. Transparency 10 2. Carbon quotient 23. Business integrity 9 3. Oceans 23. Business integrity 9 3. Oceans 8 8 22. Peace & cooperation 4. Land & forests 22. Peace & cooperation 4. Land & forests 7 7 6 6 21. Structural resilience 5. Clean air 21. Structural resilience 5. Clean air 5 5 4 4 20. Public finance 3 6. Water 20. Public finance 3 6. Water 2 2 1 1 19. Innovation 0 7. Clean energy 19. Innovation 0 7. Clean energy 18. Sustainable production 8. Waste treatment 18. Sustainable production 8. Waste treatment 17. Sustainable consumption 9. Health 17. Sustainable consumption 9. Health 16. Resource use 10. Equal opportunity 16. Resource use 10. Equal opportunity 15. Employment 11. Education 15. Employment 11. Education 14. Quality of life 12. Living conditions 14. Quality of life 12. Living conditions 13. Social integration 13. Social integration 0 5.0 A THREAT GOVERNANCE (20-24) 5.3 0 5.0 A THREAT GOVERNANCE (20-24) 5.1 6.6 CRITICAL 5.1 6.6 CRITICAL PLANET (1-8) 6.5 PLANET (1-8) 6.7 7.4 WATCHLIST 6.7 7.4 WATCHLIST ECONOMY (15-19) 6.6 ECONOMY (15-19) 7.5 8.8 SAFE SPACE 7.5 8.8 SAFE SPACE 8.9 10 TOWARDS IDEAL SOCIETY (9-14) 3.8 8.9 10 TOWARDS IDEAL SOCIETY (9-14) Mauritius Seychelles Average of 4 dimensions: 6.6 Average of 4 dimensions: N/A 1. Biodiversity 1. Biodiversity 24. Transparency 10 2. Carbon quotient 24. Transparency 10 2. Carbon quotient 23. Business integrity 9 3. Oceans 23. Business integrity 9 3. Oceans 8 8 22. Peace & cooperation 4. Land & forests 22. Peace & cooperation 4. Land & forests 7 7 6 6 21. Structural resilience 5. Clean air 21. Structural resilience 5. Clean air 5 5 4 4 20. Public finance 3 6. Water 20. Public finance 3 6. Water 2 2 1 1 19. Innovation 0 7. Clean energy 19. Innovation 0 7. Clean energy 18. Sustainable production 8. Waste treatment 18. Sustainable production 8. Waste treatment 17. Sustainable consumption 9. Health 17. Sustainable consumption 9. Health 16. Resource use 10. Equal opportunity 16. Resource use 10. Equal opportunity 15. Employment 11. Education 15. Employment 11. Education 14. Quality of life 12. Living conditions 14. Quality of life 12. Living conditions 13. Social integration 13. Social integration 0 5.0 A THREAT GOVERNANCE (20-24) 7.2 0 5.0 A THREAT GOVERNANCE (20-24) N/A 5.1 6.6 CRITICAL PLANET (1-8) 4.9 5.1 6.6 CRITICAL PLANET (1-8) 5.7 6.7 7.4 WATCHLIST 6.7 7.4 WATCHLIST ECONOMY (15-19) 7.1 ECONOMY (15-19) N/A 7.5 8.8 SAFE SPACE 7.5 8.8 SAFE SPACE 8.9 10 TOWARDS IDEAL SOCIETY (9-14) 7.0 8.9 10 TOWARDS IDEAL SOCIETY (9-14) N/A Success Beyond Numbers 13 14 Success Beyond Numbers Introduction to our sustainability strategy Success Beyond Numbers 15 Introduction to our sustainability strategy A bit of history... On 1 September 1838, a group of traders led by James Blyth, established ‘La Banque Commerciale de Maurice’, the country’s second bank. The organisation operated through a Royal Charter granted by Queen Victoria that was renewed every 20 years until 1955, when it became a limited liability company. The Bank’s first 100 years severely tested its resilience – several national financial crises, fierce competition from other commercial banks that had since been established, two world wars as well as various natural disasters. Notwithstanding these difficulties, the Bank managed to expand its activities and considerably increase its capital by 1920. Its activities remained intrinsically linked to the development of Mauritius; emerging sectors such as agriculture, trade and industry became pillars of the economy with the support of MCB. As the country’s needs grew and diversified following Independence in 1968, so did the Bank’s commitment. It played a pivotal role in the creation and development of a number of sectors, then considered to be risky, such as tourism, textile, local manufacturing, freeport activities, information and communication technology (ICT) and seafood. In the early 1990s, the Group decided to expand beyond Mauritius, an inspired move that is bearing fruit today. The brand is now present in different forms (banks, associates, representative offices) in Madagascar, the Maldives, the Seychelles, Reunion, Mayotte and Paris (France), Maputo (Mozambique), Johannesburg (South Africa), Dubai (UAE) and Nairobi (Kenya). Moreover, the Group is actively involved in project and trade financing in various sub-Saharan countries, while maintaining a presence in other markets. MCB Group today also provides outsourcing services and is involved in consulting and card processing activities. 16 Success Beyond Numbers The Mauritian context & challenges Being rooted in Mauritius, the Group’s banking activities are intrinsically linked to its home country’s development. As one of the most substantial private institutions of the country, MCB has an important role to play in the development of Mauritius into a prosperous nation. This means that the challenges faced by the country and its population are also the challenges faced by MCB. We therefore seek to make a difference by considering these challenges as business opportunities. MCB’s operating income in financial year 2019 Segment B Segment A Foreign-sourced earnings 40% Rs 17.6 bn Locally-sourced earnings 60% Mauritius in 2018* GDP at market prices (USD billion): 14,1 Per capita GDP at market prices (USD): 11,147 GDP per Agriculture 3.4% Population (mid-year estimate: 1,265,303 sector Manufacturing 19.8% Gini coefficient: 0,400 (Year 2017) Services 76.8% *Source: Statistics Mauritius and MCB Staff estimates MCB figures as at 30 June 2019 38% market share on retail loans and 2,861 177 42% on corporate loans employees ATMs around Mauritius ~ 220,000 Internet Banking clients (+ 14% compared to June 2018) 47% market ~ 261,000 share on ‘JuiceByMCB’ clients ~ 106,000 MUR deposits (+ 45% compared active ‘Rupys’ to June 2018) accounts – Bank accounts for Over children aged 1,000,000 under 18 clients Success Beyond Numbers 17 Introduction to our sustainability strategy Prioritising issues using the Gapframe analysis The United Nations Sustainable Development level, we have used the Gapframe analysis Goals (SDGs) is a useful tool to help identify to contextualise the most important Mauritius’ sustainability assets and concerns. sustainability issues of the country. These Since MCB has a critical role to play in issues, as highlighted by this study carried out strengthening sustainable opportunities by international experts, have then been used and fill the most critical needs at the local to feed our materiality analysis. Priority issues 0.4 Waste treatment 4.0 Carbon quotient 1.4 Biodiversity 4.5 Social integration 4.0 Oceans 4.6 Innovation Safe space & towards ideal 10 Clean air 9.5 Clean energy 8.8 Resource use planet society economy Mauritius’ main SDG issues using the Gapframe tool. 18 Success Beyond Numbers Main findings of the Gapframe assessment Biodiversity in Mauritius is at a critical stage with a high wildlife extinction rate while terrestrial areas are poorly protected. The country’s insularity means there is nominal recycling or recovery, and insufficient wastewater treatment infrastructures. The ocean also suffers from overfishing while dependence on fossil fuels weighs on the country’s carbon emissions. Agriculture is insufficiently developed with a low level of sustainable local production. Barriers to innovation include access to financing and technology. And yet, resource use and consumption remain valuable assets for the country. Governance-wise, there is a lack of resilience coupled with issues of business integrity and corruption. Social integration remains an improvement point specifically with regards to discrimination. Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) was introduced in the Income Tax Act 2009 and required that profitable businesses either donate 2% of their book profits to CSR activities under approved programmes following published guidelines or that they transfer these funds to Government to be used for poverty alleviation. The 2016/2017 budget amended this law to provide that businesses contribute at least 50% of their CSR funds to the National Social Inclusion Foundation (NSIF) – previously National CSR Foundation – which is the central body to receive and allocate public funds to NGOs. Further amendments have now brought this figure to 75% as at January 2019. An exception was made for CSR programmes that were already underway as at January 2019 and which respect the guidelines set by the NSIF; those companies were allowed, subject to approval by the foundation, to retain an additional 25% of their CSR budget. Success Beyond Numbers 19 Introduction to our sustainability strategy Introducing our material issues MCB’s material issues can be identified by taking into account both its economic and geographical specificities as well as issues faced by the banking sector globally. This year, we conducted an external materiality analysis crossing by using information from: • The above-mentioned Gapframe analysis which translates the SDGs into national priorities for Mauritius; and • The Datamaran3 Artificial Intelligence (AI) powered analysis, which highlights the most salient regional and sectoral sustainability issues tackled by peers of MCB in their sustainability reports as detailed below. Main sustainability issues mentioned in reports by African and Indian Ocean banks by Customer satisfaction Datamaran IA, 2018. Greenhouse gases Human rights Workforce diversity & inclusion Customer privacy & information security Employee engagement Business ethics Responsible investment and financing Climate change Grievance mechanisms Renewables & alternatives Digitilisation Employee development Anti-corruption & bribery Energy use Labour rights Community support & development Financial literacy Philanthropy Stakeholder inclusion 0 2 4 6 8 10 12 Number of banking companies in Africa and the Indian Ocean mentioning the above issues in their sustainability report. 3 Datamaran is a software solution for non-financial risk management. The software tracks 100 non-financial topics by sifting and analysing millions of data points from publicly available sources, including corporate reports (financial, sustainability reports as well as SEC filings), mandatory regulations and voluntary initiatives, as well as news and social media. 20 Success Beyond Numbers This materiality analysis crossing has brought to light the importance of 12 specific issues under the three pillars of sustainability Economy Environment Societal • Business ethics, • Climate change • Employee development anticorruption & bribery & greenhouse gases & engagement • Digitalisation, customer • Biodiversity preservation • Customer satisfaction privacy & information security • Waste management • Workforce diversity & inclusion • Responsible financing • Financial literacy • Human & labour rights • Community support MCB’s approach, performance and actions on those economic, environmental and social issues are presented throughout this report, with different levels of progress and margins for improvement. Success Beyond Numbers 21 Introduction to our sustainability strategy Direct & indirect impacts On almost every material sustainability issue, the Group has a direct impact through its daily operations, and an indirect one through the financial services and products it designs and provides to its clients. The indirect impacts relating to products and financing represent the bulk of its economic and environmental impact and as such, the main levers for positive impact. Example 1 Socio-economic impacts Jobs created Direct impact MCB Group in Mauritius employees Induced impacts Direct impact Household & Producers of public goods & services Indirect Impacts expenditure supported by loans MCB’s supply chain Indirect Impacts Induced Impacts Producers’ Household & public supply chain expenditure Operating Financing Example 2 Environmental impacts Scope 1 Tonnes of CO2 emitted from owned Scope 1 from energy sources by activities energy sources of clients who have been financed in Mauritius Scope 3* Scope 2 from purchased Scope 2 from goods purchased to disposal or acquired energy from purchased by clients who or acquired energy of products used for the Bank's Scope 3 have been financed operations from goods purchased to disposal of the products sold by clients who receive financing Operating Financing From both an economic and environmental point of view, the impacts of a bank’s day-to-day operations are much lower than the impacts from its projects and client financing. Banks finance all types of companies through loans and investments. The companies that receive financing use the money for expansion and development that in turn, create direct jobs in the value chain or indirect ones through taxation and spending by households. It ultimately also contributes to greenhouse gas emissions. All of those impacts are called financing impacts. 22 Success Beyond Numbers Reminder: GHG emissions Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 Scope 1 emissions include GHG Scope 2 emissions include GHG Scope 3 emissions include all other emissions directly related to the emissions related to the energy greenhouse gas emissions that are not product manufacture or service consumption required to manufacture directly related to the service/product design. For example, if it requires the product or design the service. designed, but rather to other stages the use of oil, fuel combustion, or if Electricity consumption needed to of the product’s life cycle: supply, the manufacturing of the product design the product/service in itself transport, use, end-of-life, etc. These resulted in CO2 or methane emissions, does not produce GHG, but electricity are called other indirect emissions. all these emissions are included in production emits GHG. All these Scope 1. These emissions are called emissions related to secondary energy direct emissions. consumption are included in Scope 2. These are called indirect emissions related to energy consumption. Success Beyond Numbers 23 Introduction to our sustainability strategy Stakeholder engagement To limit its negative impacts and maximise its positive contribution to society, a company must build a strong relation to its ecosystem and the various stakeholder groups that influence its activities. Engaging with them to better understand their needs and expectations is one of the foundations of a robust sustainable development approach. The chart below, together with the table opposite, highlight the main stakeholders of the Group, their expectations and how we engage with them in a concrete way. MCB Group Stakeholder map Direct stakeholders Investors Partners Shareholders Peers Suppliers Civil society Employees Subcontractors Institutions Communities Clients Regulators & rating agencies Economic agent Indirect stakeholders Media 24 Success Beyond Numbers MCB Group’s main engagement Stakeholders Main expectations identified Examples tools/approaches • Provide products that meet their needs as well • The Group constantly surveys its customers • Customer lab, customer surveys and as quality customer service and experience. on their needs and expectations and regularly focus groups for co-creation of products • Provide transparent and timely advice and gathers feedback on products and services. and services. information on our offering. • Clients are provided with easy-to-use digital • Digital Factory, branches & kiosks. • Ensure an effective process for transaction platforms for access to banking services • Internet Banking facilities, Mobile Banking Clients supported by appealing digital solutions. and information. App JUICE, MCB websites). • Ensure security and privacy of client • The Group leverages its network • MCB’s Facebook, YouTube, Instagram, Twitter. information and uphold their trust of branches for face-to-face in the organisation. banking transactions. • The Group regularly communicates on social media and collects customer feedback. • Improve the skills, knowledge and experience • The Group monitors employee satisfaction via • Culture Audit, Feedback sessions, Workplace of employees. engagement surveys and gathers employee polls, MCB Restaurants, MCB Staff banking • Foster staff welfare, health, safety and feedback via discussion platforms. facilities, Counselling. well-being as well as promote inclusiveness • The Group provides appropriate and • Social activities: social leave, plogging. Employees and diversity. motivating remuneration as well as additional • Sports activities. • Provide optimum working conditions and financial and non-financial staff benefits. • Training and development portfolio. attractive remuneration. • Employees have access to learning and development platforms as well as various training sessions. • Promote the transition towards more • Annual surveys are conducted and the • Procurement policy. sustainable enterprises through engagement Group strives to continuously improve its • Procurement audits. with suppliers and contractors. procurement practices. • Supplier engagement. Suppliers and • Have a clear approach to procurement in line • Partnerships and support are established to Subcontractors with best practices in terms of governance, upskill suppliers. human rights and environment imperatives. • A strict supplier selection process is followed. • Ensure on-time payments. • Generate adequate earnings and maintain • The Group promotes open and transparent • Annual Meeting of Shareholders. attractive returns on investment. communication with shareholders to ensure • Group’s website provides for an adapted • Provide timely, and valuable information on that they receive adequate information while and comprehensive self-service interface in the positioning and performance of the Group. upholding trustworthy relations with them. addition to official press announcements, • Preserve the credit ratings of MCB and • The Group maintains ongoing dialogue with occasional press conferences. Shareholders and facilitate access to global financial markets. shareholders to discuss its strategy, financial • Earnings Calls. Investors • Be aware of global trends and ensure that performance and other topical issues and • Analyst Meetings. business decisions are made in consideration ensures that they are kept abreast of all • International road shows. of the global environmental context (sociomaterial business developments in a timely • Conference calls and meetings with investors. political, environmental, demographic, and transparent manner through various economic and regulatory). communication channels. • Ensure strict compliance with relevant • Reports are submitted in a timely manner • Involvement through the MBA. regulatory limits and stipulations relating to to regulatory bodies, while transparent and • Reports sent and meetings held periodically business operations, product development, open relationships are forged to promote with the Bank of Mauritius. Regulators and market development, risk management, etc. adequate monitoring of activities and pave • Assessments by credit rating agencies, Rating Agencies • Help preserve the stability and security the way for informed discussions about e.g. Moody’s. of the financial sector of countries where relevant issues and matters. we are present. • The Group strives to maintain and improve the ratings provided by financial rating agencies. • Contribute to foster the inclusive • Regular meetings are held with multilateral • Involvement with economic agents: MBA, socioeconomic development of the country organisations and overseas financial Business Mauritius, Association of Mauritian and help to position it as an international institutions, with insights provided on the Manufacturers, Economic Development financial centre. positioning of the organisation and the Board, MCCI. • Finance key projects shaping the economic operating context of countries in which • Publications: MCB Focus, ‘Lokal is Beautiful’ landscape and contribute to thought leadership business is conducted. report on key aspects of economic development. • Dedicated insights and reviews with respect Institutions and to the market and economic environment are Economic Agents provided to enable external parties to better comprehend our positioning and performance. • Discussions on topical issues of significance to the Group are conducted – notably upcoming legislations and regulations – towards finding ways to ensure that developments taking place are in our long-term mutual interest. • Promote sustainable socioeconomic • The Group implements and monitors • MCB Forward Foundation: Football Academy, development and continue to live up to our initiatives that contribute positively to the Cité Tole etc. engagement as a socially responsible and communities in which it operates. • VIBE Moris® by MCB and Rises Nou Kiltir. Societies, caring corporate entity. • The Group sponsors or sets up initiatives to • Recycling at MCB, Reduction of plastic in Communities • Foster well-being and progress of societies in contribute to the promotion of arts in its restaurants, energy efficiency measures and and Civil Society which we operate. countries of operation. production of renewable energy. • Value and preserve our cultural heritage and • The Group strives to reduce its direct • Team MCB, MCB Foundation Scholarship, Organisation promote arts. environmental footprint. Chess in School, SEMYIA. • Adopt environmentally-friendly practices. • Sports and educational activities regularly • Encourage the adoption of sustainable habits. receive sponsorships. Success Beyond Numbers 25 Introduction to our sustainability strategy ‘Success Beyond Numbers’ Sustainability is not new to the Group. Over the last decade, several key sustainability milestones were reached. Of note, was Initiative 175, launched in 2009 on the occasion of MCB Group’s 175th anniversary. This environmental action plan consisted of a series of concrete measures aimed at preserving the environment. In 2011, MCB opened its new eco-friendly offices in St Jean. The building boasts improved energy efficiency and hosts a rainwater recycling system. MCB engages in Signature of the sustainability Launch of Signing of United Nations reporting MCB Forward AfDB Global Compact (Measuring Foundation to USD 120 m and disclosing manage the CSR performance under activities of the various sustainability Bank headings) December 2007 October September September 2013 2009 2010 March May 2009 October 2012 2009 Launch of Initiative 175, Adoption of the an ensemble of Signing of first line of Equator Principles concerted, sustained green credit from governing the Bank’s and multiple AFD – National line of Environmental & Social actions in favour of EUR 40 m Policy in support of energy saving, the responsible financing. environment and renewable energy. 26 Success Beyond Numbers “Times have changed and so have challenges, such as the fact that Gross Domestic Product (GDP) or money are not the only yardsticks for success anymore.” Pierre Guy Noël Group CEO Signing of third Signing of second Adoption of line of green credit line of green the International from AFD – EUR 75 m credit from Integrated Reporting AFD – National Framework for our line of EUR 60 m Annual Report September 2018 June 2016 February 2014 July November 2016 2018 September 2015 Launch of ‘Success Beyond Numbers’ sustainability vision and Manifesto MCB Group ranks in the Top 3 performers of the Stock Exchange of Mauritius Sustainability Launch of Index (SEMSI) MCB Microfinance Success Beyond Numbers 27 Introduction to our sustainability strategy In 2017, the Group decided to go a step further in integrating sustainability to its business strategy and brand positioning. Consultations and workshops (led by French consultancy firm Utopies) were held with some 150 employees and executives, as well as external stakeholders. This culminated in MCB Group’s corporate sustainability programme, ‘Success Beyond Numbers’, launched in November 2018. ‘Success Beyond Numbers’ defines the Group’s philosophy and makes a statement about what its stands for and what it would like its legacy to be. This philosophy has three pillars – local economy, cultural and environmental heritage and individual and collective well-being – and is supported by sound and responsible behaviour and governance that together translate the strategy into reality. This new definition of the Group’s purpose comes at a time when society is increasingly looking to companies, both public and private, to address pressing social, environmental and economic issues. The reasoning behind the strategy is the conviction that as a financial institution that has played a critical role in the economic development of Mauritius, MCB Group has a responsibility to contribute to the nation’s success otherwise than by conventional means. That is why the Group has redefined the way it measures success. Because it takes more than numbers. ‘Success Beyond Numbers’ is more than a tagline or a marketing campaign: it has become MCB Group’s compass to navigate the complex landscape of our times, it is the Group’s fundamental reason for being – creating value every day for its stakeholders and helping make a difference for Mauritius and its people. 28 Success Beyond Numbers ‘Success Beyond Numbers’ aims at unifying management, employees, and communities around a common goal that will guide daily behaviours and ethics, providing a framework for consistent decision-making and ultimately sustaining long-term financial returns for its shareholders. ‘Success Beyond Numbers’ is a long-term journey. The launch of the corporate sustainability programme was followed by various initiatives. The Group is currently working on a detailed roadmap with deadlines and quantitative targets so as to ensure measurable progress and a structured approach on all three pillars, in line with its three-year strategic plan. The current plan concludes in 2020 while the next one will cover the 2020-2023 period. Redefining success; MCB’s corporate sustainability programme was unveiled to staff in October 2018 at the Swami Vivekananda Convention Centre. Success Beyond Numbers 29 MCB Group’s manifesto We are MCB, we have grown and prospered with our country and its people We are proud contributors to our economic success story. But how do we define true success... Is happiness measured by the size of a home? Or the love it allows a family to share? Does the value of a car live in its size? Or in the freedom to choose our own path? Does the wealth of a business lie in its profit margins? Or the well-being it provides? Now is the time to redefine the way we measure success. Success is access to health, education and jobs for all. Protecting our environment for future generations. Empowering business, big small, old and new Success is equality being everyone’s utmost priority. We believe in Success. Success for this land. For all people. For tomorrow. SUCCESS BEYOND NUMBERS 30 Success Beyond Numbers The architecture of MCB’s corporate sustainability programme A vibrant and Our cultural and Individual and sustainable local environmental collective economy heritage well-being Responsible behaviour and governance The launch of Success Beyond Numbers was welcomed by our stakeholders who showed an avid interest in the initiative, as depicted below. ‘Success Beyond Numbers’: A positive Earned media reaction from ≈ Rs 100K our stakeholders + 280k people reached + 17k interactions + 10k likes + 125k views + 90k spectators 79% audience retention Most viewed video on MCB Group’s Youtube channel Success Beyond Numbers 31 Introduction to our sustainability strategy ‘Success Beyond Numbers’ governance MCB Group’s ‘Success Beyond Numbers’ programme requires its own specific governance structure to implement strategic ambitions, ensure adequate schedule and a concrete roll-out in the organisation. The Programme Steering Committee (PSC) lines (Strategy, Research and Development meets on an ad-hoc basis to set priorities, (SRD), Marketing and Communication, provide advice, bridge appropriate Human Resource (HR), CEO Office), it connections and approve objectives, budget manages priorities and resources, as well and scope. Each pillar has been assigned as the associated risks of the project. It to a specific PSC member and pillar owners regularly reviews progress of the ‘Success are accountable for the success of their Beyond Numbers’ programme with the help respective pillars. of external sustainability consultants. The PSC is chaired by the Executive The Initiative Workstreams are different Sponsor who has overall authority for cross-functional teams within MCB the project. He is in charge of tracking Group, responsible for the planning and the benefits and managing internal and implementation of assigned work stream external communication. projects. They ensure that the activities are aligned with the overall programme’s The Sustainability Pillar Owners/Theme strategic direction. Owners act as ambassadors for the project inside the organisation. They have set A dedicated Sustainability Team is objectives and timeframes, and are in charge currently being set up to promote and of prioritising and scoping the projects for monitor the implementation of the ‘Success each pillar. There are two experts per pillar Beyond Numbers’ philosophy across the and they provide business understanding organisation. This team will enable better of the organisation. They identify impact, integration of sustainability topics in our interdependencies and coordination across operations. The first member of the team, the programme. the Sustainability Project Lead, was recruited in April 2019. Our sustainability governance The Coordinating Team is in charge is also being amended to ensure seamless of project planning, coordination and communication amongst stakeholders and a execution. Composed of different business smoother process flow in initiatives roll-out. 32 Success Beyond Numbers PSC Programme Steering Committee Executive Sponsor 2 2 1 ... 1 ... Theme & Pillar Owners Consultants Utopies Coordinating Team Initiative Workstreams Led by Initiative Owners Success Beyond Numbers 33 34 Success Beyond Numbers Behaving responsibly Success Beyond Numbers 35 Behaving responsibly Ethics & integrity In order to bring a positive MCB Group has various policies in held by the Company Secretary contribution to the communities in place to maintain proper internal • Responsibility of each Director/ which it operates, MCB Group Ltd control. These are available on the Senior officer to report interests has strengthened its foundations, its Group’s website and include our • Rules on lending to related parties reputation and its operations by using Code of Ethics, Conflicts of Interest & • Rules on granting of credit facilities a robust ethics & integrity approach. Related Party Transaction Policy and to related parties By the very nature of its activities, Whistleblowing Policy. the Group faces a number of risks in its day-to-day operations. Those risks range from fraud and corruption to financing of terrorism and money Our Code of Ethics covers the Our Whistleblowing Policy covers the laundering and these require following grounds: following reportable issues: constant monitoring. The Group has implemented a number of policies • Responsibilities towards employees: • Suspected criminal offences and actions to manage those risks. Respect of human rights principles, in breach of government The organisation also relies on its core equal treatment and the highest regulations/laws values to ensure the conduct of an standards of health and safety. • Suspected criminal behaviours, ethical business. • Dealings with clients: Outstanding including bribery, corruption or client satisfaction through dedicated fraud or misuse of office • MCB Group core values: and high standards of service, • Actions significantly detrimental to Integrity, Customer care, including products and services of MCB Group and its subsidiaries Teamwork, Innovation, Knowledge the highest standards. or any of their employee and Excellence • Integrity: No inducements to be • Questionable accounting practices accepted or given to conduct constituting a serious breach of • Risk governance: The Board of business and no compromise internal policy Directors has oversight of risk to any duty owed to clients and • Suspected deliberate failure management and monitoring via a shareholders. to comply with any legal and dedicated committee. The Permanent • Confidentiality: Utmost care in regulatory obligations Control department is responsible for protecting client information and • Actions aiming at concealing any of managing operational, information third party information. the above activities. and compliance risks. Furthermore, • Customer care: Feedback from independent assurance on the customers is encouraged and Employees are required to raise effectiveness of risk governance complaints are dealt with promptly. routine issues and concerns relating is provided by an internal to day-to-day operations with audit function. their respective hierarchy whereas undesirable conduct is reported to • Main risks identified: Information Our Conflicts of Interest & Related the Anti-Money Laundering/Fraud security, operational risks (internal Party Transaction Policy covers the Prevention (AMLFP) BU by e-mail or and external fraud, health and following grounds: can be made anonymously if desired, security, client management, assets using a dedicated telephone number loss, systems dysfunction, process • Comprehensive definition of /whistleblowing hotline. Concerns and execution) and compliance risks conflicts of interest are investigated either by that office (regulatory, advisory & trading and • Identification of related parties or by the Compliance Officer (CO), financial crime) • Information pertaining to Directors depending on the case. 36 Success Beyond Numbers 11 claims reported Risk identification linked to clients Varying risks can be identified in relation to via the whistleblowing the country of operation. Some countries process since 2015 Every Anti-Money Laundering (AML) risk has may be blacklisted by the European Union, a rating according to its financial impact the United Nations Security Council (UNSC), (High, Medium and Low). A monitoring the Bank of England or the Office of tool, embedded with AML-related risks, Foreign Assets Control (OFAC). These lists generates warnings according to scenarios of countries are regularly updated on the as well as thresholds for the Relationship system (e.g. countries with high risks of Manager to analyse. Monitoring tools are financing terrorism). up and running in the Maldives and the Seychelles and are progressively being Collaboration with relevant regulators and implemented in Madagascar. authorities also helps in the identification of risky clients. 25 client applications Risk management process Reports of breaches and of incidents are were turned down last linked to clients forwarded to the Compliance department year due to financial for investigation. crime risks Risks are managed by turning down applications or requests from clients Training on risks suspected of fraudulent/illicit activities or association thereof (through the risk Internal awareness campaigns are regularly identification process). held for employees through the intranet. A policy is currently being prepared to MCB also raises awareness of its clients on define the criteria for forceful closure fraud through mailing and communication of accounts. campaigns, or official letters, if required. In financial year ending 30 June 2019 32 sessions on Fraud Awareness including Anti-Money Laundering, Cyber-Crime and Counterfinancing of Terrorism saw the participation of 295 attendees from the Group, including domestic and overseas subsidiaries 16,545 Financial Crime Risk Management alerts investigated and closed 261 Internal Suspicious Transactions Reports investigated, out of which 221 were filed at the financial Intelligence Unit (FIU) 1,090 frauds/alleged frauds investigated Success Beyond Numbers 37 Behaving responsibly Business transparency and human rights risks Some of MCB’s operations take place in Risk, Average Risk, High Risk and Very High countries that expose the Bank to business Risk with respect to Business Transparency transparency and human rights risks. and Human Rights risks. The latter score and Those risks also threaten our capacity scale have been developed by aggregating to generate income from the financial relevant indicators available in the services we provide. For example, financing Gapframe analysis mentioned earlier. a corporation involved in child labour is risky as reputational damage caused by The results show that the Bank has around 8% controversies might result in poor financial of its credit portfolio exposed to high risk and performance for the client if not bankruptcy. very high risk countries with regards to both In such cases, loan repayment capacity business transparency and human rights risks. suffers and revenues are lost. The charts Countries included in those categories are below highlight our top 15 countries with Nigeria, Mozambique, Kenya, India and Gabon. highest loan exposures. Countries are Issuing loans to clients in those countries classified into four score categories, Low requires additional care and verification. Exposure to business transparency and human rights risks as at 30 June 2019 5% 12% 5% 4% 9% 5% 2% Low risk (Country score > 7.5) Average risk (Country score 5 7.5) Exposure to business Exposure to High risk (Country score 2.5 5) transparency risk human rights risks Very high risk (Country score < 2.5) No data 74% 84% Top 15 countries* in terms of loan exposures amounting to Rs 234 bn and representing 94% of our total credit portfolio *includes Mauritius 38 Success Beyond Numbers Responsible data The increasingly strict regulatory MCB today collects and uses A general awareness document on framework coupled with a growing customers’ data as follows: DPA and GDPR was also shared on the awareness of customers on the organisation’s intranet to raise staff’s importance of their data make • Cookies, personal data, non-personal awareness on this issue. Furthermore, confidentiality and information data, and banking data are collected a dedicated team now operates under security a central issue for a financial via apps, websites and the call the IRM to handle and safeguard institution like MCB Group that holds centre. Data is more often used to clients’ data. sensitive client data in multiple avoid mis-selling (the mismatching countries. Our utmost ambition and of clients and products/services). MCB is now aiming to eliminate the priority is thus to protect data for the • Customers’ consent is obtained manual handling of data and avoid Group and its customers. when they sign a contract with MCB. breaches by reinforcing the use of • Data is kept for a period of seven years digital tools. Other measures being With regards to customer privacy, after the banking relationship ends. investigated include the development appropriate governance and policies • The customer is notified when his/her of new job responsibilities internally, have been set up internally. As such, data is being collected (recording of related to data mining and data the Bank recently appointed a Data phone conversation etc.). science, the improvement of granularity Protection Officer (DPO) who is • Claims from clients are looked in data monitoring and grievances and now specifically in charge of data into by Quality Assurance, whereas the training of all employees on consent protection and compliance topics. customer complaints pertaining to collection and consent traceability. The DPO operates under MCB’s alleged breach of confidentiality are Information Risk Management (IRM) investigated by Compliance. With regards to information security, team. The main objectives of the DPO MCB has worked with EY on a gap are to ensure safe data processing MCB is transparent on how it uses assessment to evaluate its exposure in full compliance with the recently customer data. Customers can have to risks in the data privacy field and to proclaimed Data Protection Act (DPA) access to a detailed explanation on how define the perimeter of responsibility and the EU’s General Data Protection MCB uses and collects personal data of the Group. Regular cyberattack Regulation (GDPR) requirements, align and what it does with it. This document simulations are held to identify our processes with internationally entitled “A NEW DATA PROTECTION weaknesses and strengthen our recognised cyber security frameworks LANDSCAPE” also highlights other response. Other measures implemented and certifications, and strengthen relevant information about individuals’ include ethical hacking to identify the first line of defence through rights over their data and can be security breaches and online tests for continuous security awareness. obtained on our website. employees on cyber risks. As at 30 June 2019 58 Business representatives trained on DPA/GDPR 480 employees attended our Cyber War Game awareness sessions (Leadership team included) 2,373 employees targeted for Information Security Policy awareness sessions. These sessions are scheduled until December 2019 Success Beyond Numbers 39 Behaving responsibly Product responsibility Equator Principles A bank’s sustainable development depends around the world to identify, assess and on many factors, such as the environmental, manage environmental and social risks social and economic impact of its financial associated with project financing. It is also products and services, the direct impacts of primarily intended to provide a minimum its operations (e.g. buildings and non-physical standard for due diligence to support market presence) as well as the indirect responsible risk decision-making. impacts of its stakeholders, employees, etc. However, it is ultimately MCB’s responsibility The Bank’s Environmental and Social (E&S) to ensure that its activities degrade neither Policy is founded on this framework and the environment nor the social conditions applies to any project or undertaking entailing of the countries in which it operates. We loans of an aggregate amount greater than or are therefore committed to market more equal to USD 2 million and with a maturity of responsible and ethical products. at least 24 months. In particular, the process caters for the identification, categorisation, MCB Ltd voluntarily adopted the Equator reporting and monitoring of environmental Principles in May 2012. This framework and social risks for projects that fall within the is followed by many financial institutions scope of the E&S Policy. The scope of the MCB Ltd has an exclusion list, elaborated The Bank will not have more than 5% of its Environmetal & Social in accordance with international practices, capital committed to projects or to clients Risk Management for activities it will not finance. This list, whose primary operations relate to the (ESRM) process available on the Bank’s website, includes production and/or trade in weapons and amongst others, pornography, trade in ammunition, tobacco, hard liquor, gambling, wildlife products, production, use or trade casinos and equivalent businesses. in hazardous materials, pharmaceuticals, pesticides/herbicides and chemicals. 40 Success Beyond Numbers The ESRM All eligible projects i.e. those with undertakings that entail loans of an aggregate amount process in detail greater than or equal to USD 2 million and with a maturity of at least 24 months, are grouped under three categories A, B or C, based on their potential E&S impacts and risks. Category A indicates projects with potentially significant adverse and irreversible E&S impacts, Category B, projects with potentially limited adverse but largely reversible E&S impacts, and Category C, projects with minimal or no E&S impacts. Some projects are ipso facto categorised as A, for instance, crude oil refineries, thermal power stations, nuclear industry, motorway construction, waste-processing installations, industrial plants and so on. For some projects, an E&S action plan is agreed upon between the Bank and the client, detailing and prioritising the actions needed to implement mitigation measures, corrective actions and/ or monitoring measures required to manage the impacts and risks identified in the assessment. 2 projects of Category A and 1 of Category B out of 105 projects financed during the year ended 30 June 2018 The last reporting year to the Equator Principles associations MCB is an emerging player in project financing in Africa. The Bank finances specific projects like infrastructure investments (ports, airports, health/education facilities, energy...) and participates in transactions or syndications. If the projects assessed by the E&S process are deemed too risky, they can be turned down. This decision is taken after an appropriate assessment of the client’s sustainability policy and the E&S risks and impacts of the project or transaction at hand. Success Beyond Numbers 41 Behaving responsibly External sustainability initiatives United Nations Global Compact COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS This is our Communication on Progress in implementing the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact and supporting broader UN goals. We welcome feedback on its contents. MCB is a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), the world’s largest corporate sustainability initiative that believes businesses can be a force for good. UNGC urges companies worldwide to align strategies and operations with ten universal principles on human rights, labour, environment, and anti-corruption, while asking them to take actions that advance societal goals. Every year MCB submits a Communication on Progress (COP) report highlighting its engagements and initiatives on the ten principles. 42 Success Beyond Numbers Principles for MCB Ltd has become a founding signatory to the Principles for Responsible Banking (PRB) of Responsible Banking the United Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative (UNEPFI) that were launched on September 22, 2019 in New York. Signatories are responsible banks around the world that agree to adhere to six principles of the initiative and improve their impact and contribution to society. The participants are required to analyse where their institutions have positive and negative impacts on society, and identify ways to increase positive impacts while reducing the negative ones. Banks are also expected to set meaningful targets on the most relevant impacts and are required to report on how they are implementing the PRB and assess their progress in doing so. We believe that joining this initiative is a fantastic opportunity for us to entrench our corporate sustainability programme and showcase our engagement towards building a more prosperous Mauritius. Founding Signatory of: Success Beyond Numbers 43 44 Success Beyond Numbers Investing in local economic development Success Beyond Numbers 45 Investing in local economic development ‘Lokal is Beautiful’: the rationale behind the first pillar MCB Group has supported entrepreneurship and innovation solidity of Mauritius’ economy by anchoring it in a new kind in Mauritius for over 180 years and as a result, has the of globalisation, one of exchanges between more complex necessary clout to influence ways to achieve increased economies that produce locally but are still open to world. prosperity for individuals, Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs), corporations and the country. But the landscape The concern, as demonstrated in the study, is that while is no longer the same. Global challenges such as the Mauritius’ external income has registered strong growth on economic crisis and global warming, added to the digital average for the last 20 years, the country’s local multiplier revolution have sparked a deep questioning of commonly effect has consistently decreased (-25% in 10 years), in a held definitions of prosperity and progress, both at ‘scissor-like effect’. To enable Mauritius to enter the group the individual and the collective levels. This systemic of high-income countries in a sustainable way, the study reassessment has contributed to MCB Group’s decision to recommends increasing external income by 50% and redefine its responsibilities and review its role as an active simultaneously increasing the island’s local multiplier effect steward of the island’s economic growth. The thinking led by 25%, by the year 2025. This scenario leaves the island less to the exploration of new ways to achieve greater and more exposed to external vulnerability, addressing prosperity in the sustainable prosperity. broadest sense, including social and environmental issues. This culminated in a study on the local economy and Increasing the local multiplier effect means developing local subsequent report entitled ‘Lokal is Beautiful’, undertaken manufacturing further but without increasing Mauritius’ by the sustainability consulting firm Utopies and launched ecological footprint. The study suggests three avenues to in January 2019. The idea was to understand how prosperity stimulate local entrepreneurship and the emergence of new is achieved in Mauritius and identify the mechanisms local industries: that create wealth, including how much of it is generated • A MAKER ISLAND, i.e. developing micro-factories, fablabs, from local economic circuits. The study confirmed that fabshops, incubators, start-ups and company partnerships while attracting external wealth was essential, it was also • A CIRCULAR ISLAND, i.e. increasing the ability to produce important to encourage further internal circulation of locally with recycled resources (repair, restore value, recycle…) this external wealth in order to further boost the island’s • A SMART ISLAND, i.e. creating value rather than products prosperity. At current levels, Mauritius is able to multiply through business models based on digital solutions (peer the revenues captured from abroad by 2.86 times (based on to peer, collaborative platforms…). year 2015 figures). A half-day conference was organised by the Group at the Yet, if the ability to circulate wealth locally is increased, so Caudan Arts Centre in Port-Louis on 23 January 2019 to will the national income. This can be achieved if Mauritius present and discuss the findings of the study, with experts in grows and develops further from the inside out. However, as the field and local players of the Mauritius economy. the island’s efforts were focused on leveraging globalisation as a tool for economic development, the local economy has This conference was followed by tangible initiatives by MCB for long not been considered a priority. The idea is not to aim to incorporate the findings in its own lines of business. for complete self-reliance or to minimise the importance of A ‘Lokal is Beautiful’ Scheme aimed at SMEs was launched in the exportation of goods and services or of other pillars such August 2019. as tourism or international investment, but to reinforce the 46 Success Beyond Numbers The first pillar of ‘Success Beyond Numbers’ was launched in January 2019 by way of a conference on the local economy. + Rs 1 m vs paid media (Rs 750k) + 1.4 m views Press Rs 550K + 810k people reached Online Rs 275k + 2 m interactions Social Media Earned Media TV / Radio Rs 225K Figures as at October 2019 Success Beyond Numbers 47 Investing in local economic development Partnership with ‘Made in Moris’ MCB has been a partner of the ‘Made in Moris’ label since its inception in 2012. The label was created by the Association of Mauritian Manufacturers (AMM) to foster local manufacturing and to improve the quality of goods and services produced in Mauritius. The aim was to increase the competitiveness of locally manufactured products then severely threatened by the elimination of customs duty on imported goods. Five years down the line, 3,000 products from 300 brands produced by 95 companies carry the ‘Made in Moris’ label which has become synonymous with trust, quality, traceability and freshness. To obtain the label, manufacturers have to undergo a site visit carried out by officials of ‘Made in Moris’ together with their strategic partner Geneva-based Société Générale de Surveillance (SGS), a worldwide provider of quality verification and certification services. To qualify for the label, the following aspects are taken into account; the quality of the product, the origin of raw materials, the manufacturing process, the supplier, transparency in structure and accounting as well as the working conditions of employees and the way they are treated. The label is financed by the membership fees of companies that have obtained the certification as well as MCB sponsorship. MCB’s contribution for the year 2018-2019 amounted to Rs 2 m. 48 Success Beyond Numbers Anne Favori, the founder of Pandanus, was thrilled to see her modest baskets turned into chic end of year gifts for MCB staff. Made by artisans from Mauritius and Rodrigues, the basket was then subjected to a glamorous finish by Hémisphère Sud. Last year’s end of year gift was a ‘Lokal’ product par excellence! Success Beyond Numbers 49 Investing in local economic development Socio-economic footprint of MCB Ltd’s activities4 A company’s contribution to social and economic development is impacted by how socially responsible its policies are. In fact, contribution to socio-economic development is the number one issue that stakeholders throughout the world expect companies to address (34% of respondents vs 15% for environment Global CSR Study, Cone Communication & Echo, 2017). As such, an assessement of the Bank’s socioeconomic impact was carried out by the sustainability consulting firm Utopies based on their LOCAL FOOTPRINT® model. This study covers both our direct and indirect impacts on the Mauritian territory for the period January to December 2018. Direct impacts Our direct socio-economic impacts relate to all the jobs supported and the economic value linked to our generated (GDP) in the Mauritian economy via our purchases from local suppliers, the local own operations consumption of our employees and suppliers’ employees (via the wages they receive), and via all the taxes we/our suppliers pay and which support public spending. Indirect impacts Thanks to the savings entrusted by our clients, the loans we disbursed support the production linked to our of goods and services, as well as household consumption and government spending. This also banking activity supports jobs and value creation in Mauritius. For this first edition of the study, overdrafts, investments and bonds were not included in the scope of the evaluation. In 2018, through its operations and 11% banking activity, MCB Ltd supported nearly Operations impacts 112,645 jobs in the Mauritian economy, representing 18% of the active population5. Loan impacts Our financing activities (via loans) represent 89% of the employment impacts while the 89% remaning 11% relate to our direct impacts. • The socio-economic benefits in the “Industry” sector are supported by loans that finance the cash flow of these companies. • Impacts in the “Public administration, education, health” sector are mainly supported by households’ consumption and public expenditure. • Employment in the “Construction” sector is supported by new real estate loans, renovation loans or via direct purchases from the Bank. At the same time, MCB Ltd also contributed Rs 86.9 billion to the Mauritian economy, representing 17% of the country’s GDP, through our operations and banking activity. Banking activity represents 76% of the wealth impacts and operations represent 24%. 4 Study covering MCB Ltd’s disbursed loans from January to December 2018 5 Statistics Mauritius Dashboard 2019 50 Success Beyond Numbers Impacts of 67,631 jobs 9,320 jobs 3,968 jobs banking activity Cash and Real estate Consumer 100,183 jobs equivalent loans credit Operating impacts: 12,462 jobs 67,883 32,300 Total supported jobs: 112,645 sustained jobs jobs through 1,521 jobs in the Mauritian supply household consumption and supported chain needed to produce government expenditure by purchases from the goods and services of these companies local suppliers related to the credits granted to our customers. 2,782 MCB employees 8,159 jobs supported by household consumption and government expenditure Services Public administration (incl. financial) Industry Education 23% Health 8% Wholesale and Construction Others 22% retail trade 7% 13% 20% Agriculture Distribution of 7% supported jobs in the Mauritian economy by sector 17% of the country’s GDP +39 1 1 Contribution of For every 1 employee of the bank, On average for the bank Rs 86.9 billion 39 additional jobs Rs 482,000 of financing to the Mauritian economy are supported in Mauritius. is needed to support 1 job. Study covering MCB Ltd’s disbursed loans from January to December 2018 Success Beyond Numbers 51 Investing in local economic development Tax responsibility Why tax responsibility One of the ways a business contributes to society and local prosperity is by paying taxes. is a major issue Taxes – be it corporate tax or property tax – provide essential public revenues for governments for the Group to meet economic and social objectives. The 2008 financial crisis and recession brought to the forefront the lack of public trust in business and led to much broader speculation about the taxes companies actually pay. This has led to a worldwide call from campaigning groups, NGOs and non-profit organisations for more transparency and regulation with regards to corporate tax. And yet, this is not an easy subject because a balance needs to be found between value creation, that preserves the ability to reward investor confidence and value distribution, which ensures a fair contribution to local communities. The international and multi-country scope of the Group’s activities as well as the level of income and fiscal regime of some of the countries of operation make this subject all the more relevant to MCB Group’s social contribution. Tax breakdown Overview of taxes paid by MCB Group banking entities in year ending 30 June 2019 Tax paid by banking entities (Rs m) MCB Ltd Breakdown of tax charges* (%) Under / Over provision in previous years 2 Corporate Social Responsability Contribution 5 Deferred tax 5 MCB Madagascar 15 MCB Maldives 23 Provision for tax assessment 10 MCB Seychelles 139 Special levy on banks 31 MCB Ltd 1,630 Income tax based on adjusted profit 47 *Amount shown does not include Value Added Tax (VAT). In financial year ending 30 June 2019, the Bank remitted a total of Rs 135 m to the Mauritius Revenue Authority (MRA). MCB has dealings with customers who operate in countries that may be considered “tax havens” by the international community. As at 30 June 2019, MCB’s credit exposures in countries blacklisted for being non-cooperative tax jurisdictions by the EU, represented only 0.8% of its total credit portfolio. MCB’s credit exposure in non-cooperative tax jurisdictions at as 30 June 2019 Credit exposures in Rs m Marshall Islands* 0.05 Belize 0.22 Oman 0.84 US Virgin Islands 4.47 United Arab Emirates* 1,976 *Marshall Islands and United Arab Emirates have been removed from the EU list of non-cooperative jurisdictions in October 2019. 52 Success Beyond Numbers Financial services Banking cluster solutions that are adapted to the realities of local markets, while capitalising on synergies within the Group. MCB Ltd seeks to widen its footprint across the corporate, Corporate and Institutional Banking activities include institutional and high-net-worth customer segments in different financial services provided internationally by MCB: sub-Saharan Africa and beyond, by means of customised solutions. It is an active promoter of the Group’s ‘Bank • Financial institutions: MCB offers support systems, back of Banks’ initiative, which consists of providing adapted office or loans to African and European institutional banks solutions to financial counterparts, thus leveraging its local • Energy and commodities (E&C): MCB finances mainly experience. To further its development, the Bank leverages the trading of oil and gas, and provides term funding to its representative offices in Johannesburg, Paris, Nairobi Exploration and Production oil companies, with a strong and Dubai and a network of around 1,150 correspondent focus on African transactions banks worldwide, including some 200 in Africa. Beyond, • Corporate international: MCB offers its products and the Group’s foreign banking subsidiaries in Madagascar, services to multinational companies Maldives and Seychelles and its overseas associates, i.e. • Local corporates: Société Générale Moçambique and Banque Française MCB helps Mauritian clients diversify and invest abroad Commerciale Océan Indien (BFCOI) – operating in Réunion MCB supports multinationals that plan to settle in Island, Mayotte and Paris – provide clients with banking Mauritius by financing their business base, treasury funds… MCB Group Non-banking financial cluster Other Investments cluster MCB Capital Markets Ltd is the investment banking and International Card Processing Services Ltd (ICPS Ltd) asset management arm of MCB Group. provides state-of-the-art technology in Switching and Card MCB Factors Ltd is a prominent operator in the field of Management Systems. factoring in Mauritius. MCB Consulting Services Ltd provides companies with MCB Leasing Ltd offers a wide range of finance and sustainable solutions to help them attain their innovation and operating leasing solutions. business development goals. MCB Microfinance provides dedicated financial support to Fincorp Investment Ltd is an investment company with micro and small entrepreneurs diversified interests. MCB Institute of Finance Ltd provides students and professionals with financial knowledge via dedicated courses. Breakdown of international revenues of the Bank International revenues of MCB Ltd as at 30 June 2019 Rs 6.9 bn Institutional banking 5% Private banking & wealth management 7% Structured finance 15% Corporate 20% Others* 25% Energy & commodities 28% *Others include treasury, retail banking, cards issuing, management fees, dividends and fair value gains. Success Beyond Numbers 53 Investing in local economic development Lobbying MCB Group has historically favoured a neutral approach As a member of the Mauritius Bankers Association (MBA) and in terms of public policy. However, its position as the in line with the association’s priorities, MCB believes that dominant bank – with over one million bank accounts financial literacy is one of its biggest responsibility towards in Mauritius – and its new corporate sustainability its clients. As the leading bank in Mauritius, with its results programme, are making neutrality a non sequitur as it directly impacted by the country’s economic performance, forces the Bank to question its role and its socio-economic MCB believes it has the responsibility to influence economic impact on the development of Mauritius. growth to achieve sustainable prosperity. Procurement practices Procurement is another key corporate lever for having a The Bank also has a procurement charter in place that positive impact on the local economy and on sustainable defines responsible procurement as the consideration development. In line with its strategy, MCB favours, as far for the social and environmental aspects of the products as possible, suppliers whose goods are of a certain quality purchased as well as the supplier’s attitude towards and whose practices comply with its environmental and sustainable development. On top of that, local suppliers social standards. are encouraged to provide evidence of their quality assurance programme, health and safety programme, and With regards to its procurement practices, MCB aims to their code of ethics via a specific supplier information have a demonstrable impact on the environment and sheet. Most of our suppliers are local companies. However, society, while reducing risks and encouraging suppliers and the procurement spend ratio has seen a recent increase employees alike to share its standards so that it remains in a in favour of foreign suppliers, mainly due to contracts virtuous cycle of continuous improvement. with foreign consultants and companies having specific expertise not found locally. In line with the above, MCB, as a signatory to the UN Global Compact (UNGC), favours suppliers who respect the ten MCB intends to adapt its procurement model to the circular principles promoting human rights, fair labour practices, economy concept and some projects in line with the latter environmental protection and the fight against corruption. are already underway. Breakdown of our spend volume and suppliers by type Procurement spend ratio (%) Supplier ratio (%) 2017 81 19 2017 82 18 2018 72 28 2018 79 21 2019 55 45 2019 81 19 Local suppliers Foreign suppliers Local suppliers Foreign suppliers 54 Success Beyond Numbers Microfinance Mauritius is a country where access to loans remains The loans provided start at Rs 15,000 and go up to problematic for SMEs and is even more complex for Rs 800,000, and are collateral-free at a rate of 15%. micro-businesses. As part of MCB Group’s pledge to Businesses need to have been active for at least one year. foster the financial inclusion and empowerment of small entrepreneurs, MCB Microfinance Ltd was launched in July MCB Microfinance prides itself on its proximity to its customers. 2016 as a wholly-owned subsidiary of MCB Group Ltd, and Its Relationship Officers spend a lot of time on the field to the first microfinance institution in Mauritius. Its aim is to understand the characteristics and requirements of every facilitate access to business loans for micro-enterprises and client so that customised solutions that suit their repayment self-employed individuals. Clients have access to two types capacities can be offered to them. The care and commitment of micro-loans: provided by Relationship Officers to their clients are not subject to the loan volume, thus ensuring the same customer • Micro-loan Working Capital to help meet working capital attention for every client. MCB Microfinance pays particular needs such as purchase of raw materials or stock. attention to each customer’s background and situation to The repayment period for these loans ranges from avoid burdening them with over-indebtedness while providing six to 18 months sufficient financial literacy and client awareness. • Micro-loan Investment for capital spending requirements In March 2017, MCB Microfinance extended its activities to of businesses such as extensions. The repayment period Rodrigues with the opening of an office and the recruitment ranges from 12 to 60 months of two Relationship Officers. Statistics on microfinance loans disbursed as at 30 June 2019 Overview of loans disbured Loans by business sector (%) jul 18 15.4 76 Agriculture / Agri-business 4.7 Aug 18 15.1 84 Sep 18 15.5 71 Transport 11.4 Oct 18 15.2 90 Services 22.8 Nov 18 16.8 91 Dec 18 12.1 78 Manufacturing 25.5 Jan 19 7.5 29 Trading 35.6 Feb 19 12.0 64 Mar 19 14.3 83 Apr 19 16.3 85 May 19 10.8 59 Nº Jun 19 14.1 87 Rs m As at 30 June 2019 40% of clients are women. 2,762 loans disbursed corresponding to a gross amount of some Rs 528 million (including 188 micro-loans disbursed in Rodrigues, amounting to Rs 24 million) 55% of the loans disbursed were investment loans Average loan is Rs 200,000 in Mauritius and Rs 128,000 in Rodrigues Success Beyond Numbers 55 Investing in local economic development ‘Lokal’ is truly beautiful: Roland Meunier, an MCB Microfinance customer, produces delicious charcuterie in Rodrigues. MCB Microfinance is careful not to burden its clients with over-indebtedness. Here, Yannick Zoile, an upholsterer. 56 Success Beyond Numbers Next steps MCB seeks to promote the The scheme is also more flexible than contacts with one aim – to help development of the local economy the more traditional schemes aimed them surf through the complicated by stimulating responsible at SMEs, in terms of loan security and landscape of entrepreneurship in a entrepreneurship. As such, the Bank the sector they operate in. Flexibility is changing marketplace. This ecosystem launched the ‘Lokal is Beautiful’ (LIB) key in this particular segment because for SMEs will be made available to MCB Scheme on 19 August 2019. The latter it allows for the creation of new and non-MCB entrepreneurs in the has been designed solely for SMEs economic models based on novel and coming months. MCB will tap into its (having a turnover between Rs 2 m and often untested ideas. consequential database, leverage its Rs 50 m) and aims to provide funding partnerships with different entities and to a larger number of entrepreneurs at A dedicated SME platform is currently institutions to better accompany SMEs a lower rate provided they are ready to in preparation. This platform will and help them grow. adopt good practices, and thus build enable SMEs to find all the relevant businesses with a positive impact. services, information, products and Success Beyond Numbers 57 58 Success Beyond Numbers Investing in our cultural and environmental heritage Success Beyond Numbers 59 MCB’s St jean building not only has a photovoltaic farm but it also harvests rainwater. Some environmental issues are critical in Mauritius and every local actor has a role to play to contribute to a cleaner footprint. A large proportion of waste is exported since the country lacks local recycling infrastructure. Local biodiversity is endangered, and both the air and the oceans suffer from pollution. Institutions like MCB Group have a double impact and contribution to the environment: direct impact through its operations and indirect impacts through its financing activities. Direct environmental impacts of MCB Ltd6 Banking activities directly impact the environment through buildings, IT systems, transports and business travel. To step up its carbon footprint programme implemented in 2009, MCB has set environmental targets covering energy, water, paper and carbon emissions, and committed to influence and engage employees, stakeholders and suppliers by concentrating resources on the following areas: • Managing direct carbon footprint • Driving eco-efficiency performance • Greening the supply chain 6 KPIs reported in this section relate to our banking operations in Mauritius only and cover the reporting period January to December 2018. 60 Success Beyond Numbers Energy MCB Ltd’s GOAL: -23% energy consumption by 2023 compared to 2018 Procurement of green electricity remains a challenge in Mauritius as the national electricity grid is heavily dependent on coal-fueled power plants. MCB has thus built its own solar farm at its St Jean building. The latter has provided 5.3% of the building’s global electricity consumption in 2018. This solar farm can provide a maximum of 20% of electricity required by the St Jean building during clear sunny summer days. Total energy consumption by source (% MWh) 2015 2016 2017 2018 90% 10% 5% 16,487 Grid Electricity 86% 10% 4% 15,409 Fuels 86% 9% 4% 14,559 Renewable Energy 85% 12% 4% 12,490 Energy consumption from buildings constitutes MCB’s main carbon emission and as such, facilities management teams are continually working to improve energy efficiency in all MCB offices and premises in Mauritius, through renovation plans. Equipment is also replaced or upgraded regularly to include energy-efficient technologies for computers, air-conditioners, motion sensors, lighting and printers. In 2016, the temperature of air-conditioning units was changed from 16 to 24°C in order to save energy, and all lights have been shifted to LED. In 2018, a significant reduction of 14.2% in energy consumption was observed, while energy intensity i.e. the energy consumed per full-time equivalent employee, has dropped by 12.8%. Energy intensity in MWh per FTE 5.59 5.37 5.03 4.38 Compared to 2015, MCB Ltd has reduced its energy intensity by 21.6% 2015 2016 2017 2018 Success Beyond Numbers 61 Investing in our cultural and environmental heritage Water MCB Ltd’s GOAL: -25% water consumption by 2023 compared to 2018 Although water usage is not significant for MCB, water monitoring and mitigation measures are in progress. The total water consumption of MCB Ltd was 39,521 m3 in 2018. Of note, this year’s data on water consumption is not comparable to previous years as the collection system has been greatly improved and is now more exhaustive. Water intensity in m3 per FTE 13.9 13.3 12.2 12.2 2015 2016 2017 2018 Transport With the Bank expanding internationally, business travel is unavoidable. MCB is therefore committed to making those business travels as energy-efficient as possible. With regards to employee commuting, MCB is equipped with charging stations to encourage employees to opt for greener cars. Total CO2 emissions by transport type (% tCO2eq) Commuting 2018 54% 5% 41% 5,345 2017 58% 6% 36% 5,206 Road car 2016 58% 6% 36% 5,605 Air travel 2015 57% 7% 35% 5,735 Transport emissions have slightly increased by 2.7 % in 2018 when transport intensity has risen by 4.3% over the same period. CO2 intensity of transport in tCO2eq per FTE 1.94 1.95 1.88 1.80 2015 2016 2017 2018 62 Success Beyond Numbers Paper MCB Ltd’s GOAL: under 100 tons of paper consumed by 2023 Paper consumption intensity has increased by 4.0% compared to last year though it has decreased by 12.7% when compared to 2015. In 2018, 57% of our paper waste was recycled via a professional recycler. The total volume of paper consumed in 2018 stood at 125.5 tons, an increase of 2.4% compared to the 2017 value. Paper consumption intensity in kg per FTE 50.5 44.1 42.5 42.4 2015 2016 2017 2018 The Group is also encouraging its customers and security holders to go paperless. Our banking customers are encouraged to subscribe to e-statements while the Group security holders are given the opportunity to subscribe to the electronic version of our annual report. Security holders subscribing to electronic E-statements subscription version of annual report for active MCB Ltd customer accounts Security holders receiving hardcopy 2017 2018 2019 266,645 +6% 2019 of annual report 71% 29% Security holders 250,477 +12% receiving electronic version of annual report 2018 78% 22% 224,410 Waste Mauritius does not have adequate recycling infrastructure. Most of the recyclable waste that is sorted out is exported for treatment. MCB ensures that the waste it produces is handled properly by carefully selected service providers. The Bank encourages its staff to bring their own mugs at the office. Single-use plastics have practically been eliminated within our operations and we are investigating ways to do away with them completely. Furthermore, all recyclable waste from the Head Office and the St Jean building are collected by professional recyclers. Regarding organic waste at the Port-Louis and St Jean restaurants, MCB is aiming at “zero waste” and has improved its meal reservation system accordingly. An organic composter is also in operation at the St Jean office. With regards to e-waste, MCB has proactively sought sustainable disposal solutions for IT hardware reaching end-of-life phase. For the past two years, professional recyclers have collected MCB’s electronic waste as well as its toners. Success Beyond Numbers 63 Investing in our cultural and environmental heritage Carbon footprint of MCB Ltd7 MCB’s Carbon footprint analysis in 2018 follows the GHG The GHG Protocol categorises GHG emissions caused by Protocol8. This approach identifies direct and indirect an organisation into three broad scopes. In accordance emissions sources related to MCB Ltd’s activities: with this categorisation and considering the consolidation approach selected by MCB Ltd (control approach), our • Direct GHG emissions: from sources that are owned or carbon footprint analysis is broken down into Scope 1 & 2 controlled by the Bank. emissions. Additional Scope 3 emissions related to employee commuting and business travel are also included. This year, • Indirect GHG emissions: are a consequence of the activities the Bank extended its carbon footprint analysis to account of the Bank, but occur at sources owned or controlled by for an estimation of the carbon emissions associated to its another entity. loan products i.e. Scope 3 – ‘Use of products’ category. MCB’s carbon footprint methodology Scope 3 indirect Scope 1 direct Scope 2 indirect Scope 3 indirect • Employee commuting • Offices • Purchased electricity • Use of products i.e. MCB loans • Business travel • Company car fleet • steam Home loan • heat and cooling Consumer loan for own use Vehicles loan Student loan Capital investment Construction works Treasury Stock purchases Other loans Upstream supply chain MCB Downstream supply chain 7 KPIs reported in this section relate to our banking operations in Mauritius only and cover the reporting period January to December 2018 8 The Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol, developed by World Resources Institute (WRI) and World Business Council on Sustainable Development (WBCSD), sets the global standard on how to measure, manage, and report greenhouse gas emissions. This standard is used by a diverse range of organisations, including many in the banking sector, and is widely accepted as best practice. 64 Success Beyond Numbers MCB Ltd’s GOAL: Be Carbon neutral by 2023 (Operations & Upstream supply chain) In 2018, MCB released a total 18,413 tCO2eq, of which 13,338 tCO2eq are from Scope 1 and 2 sources. The remaining 5,075 tCO2eq are Scope 3 emissions related to employee commuting and business travel. MCB Ltd’s GHG emissions in tCO2eq 3% 2018 70% 16% 12% 18,413 GHG Emissions Scope 1 3% 2017 72% 16% 10% 19,489 GHG Emissions Scope 2 3% 2016 GHG Emissions Scope 3 72% 16% 10% 20,573 Commuting 2% GHG Emissions Scope 3 2015 73% 15% 9% 21,748 Business travel GHG emissions from Scope 1 and 2 sources have decreased by 18.9% between 2015 and 2018, while commuting and business travel GHG emissions have decreased by 4.3% over the same period. Furthermore, MCB’s GHG emissions intensity has decreased by 16.0% for Scope 1&2 and by 1.0% for Scope 3 over the last four years. GHG emissions intensity in tCO2eq per FTE 1.78 2018 4.68 1.69 2017 5.04 1.83 GHG emissions Scope 3 2016 5.34 Commuting & business travel 1.80 2015 GHG emissions Scope 1 & 2 5.58 Success Beyond Numbers 65 Investing in our cultural and environmental heritage Indirect environmental impacts of MCB Ltd9 This year, MCB has sought to assess its environmental impact supply chain in Mauritius and a large number of countries beyond its operations by estimating the impact of its lending worldwide, establishing monetary equivalence on three activities. Sustainability consulting firm Utopies undertook given environmental impacts, namely carbon, raw materials the study below, using its LOCAL FOOTPRINT® NATURE and water. The study covers loans disbursed by the Bank in model. The model measures the environmental impacts calendar year 2018. of the monetary flows of the Bank’s loans throughout the MCB’s loans carbon / environmental footprint methodology E.g. Rs X m in a car loan Impacts on the automotive production industry in the world Manufacture Logistics Raw materials Quantify the environmental impacts of the goods traded by using the monetary equivalence principal : Rs X m of funding in a given sector X tCO2eq emited. Water footprint Raw materials Carbon footprint (m3) footprint (tonnes) (tCO2eq) 3 environmental impacts evaluated in this study Equivalent 9 Study covering MCB Ltd’s disbursed loans from January to December 2018. 66 Success Beyond Numbers Breakdown of Six disbursed loans types have been These six loan types granted to our MCB’s loans in 2018 analysed. They represent Rs 9,907 M clients have released 375,055 tCO2eq. equivalent to 21% of MCB Ltd’s lending These emissions relate to supply chain activity over the period under study. activities involved in the production of the Overdrafts, participations and bonds are goods and services financed by the loans not included in the perimeter of the study. granted by us. Loans in Rs 000’ m Student loan 231 Infrastructure & construction works 277 Vehicles loan 319 Capital investment 1,377 Consumer credit 1,840 Home loan 6,005 Raw materials and water impacts involved in the production of the goods and services financed are presented in the Rs 9 907M 375 ktCO2eq 682 k tonnes 14,1M m3 next chart. of material consumption of water consumption 21% of MCB’s lending Emissions associated to in the supply chain in the supply chain activity in 2018 the deforestation of a (biomass, metallic and (agriculture, industry and Equivalent tropical rain-forest of non-metallic minerals) energy production) size equivalent to 0.3% of Mauritius’ surface Weight of more 5% of water consumption area (650 ha) than 113,000 African of Mauritius in 2013 elephants A detailed assessment of the environmental impact intensity by type of loan gives better insights and identifies hot spots. Per Rs 1,000 Carbon footprint Materials footprint Water footprint of loan disbursed (kg CO2eq) (tonnes) (m3) For example, the analysis Real estate 41,54 0,07 0,65 shows that on average, for each Rs 1,000 spent Consumer 48,29 0,09 3,05 on a consumer loan, Capital 13,20 0,05 1,88 48 kg CO2eq are released Infrastructure and Construction 18,22 0,08 3,97 in the supply chain to produce the goods and Student 48,14 0,09 3,04 services financed. Car 13,26 0,06 1,58 Success Beyond Numbers 67 Investing in our cultural and environmental heritage Climate assessment & strategy First insights As an island state, Mauritius is particularly exposed and vulnerable to the adverse effects of for a 1.5°c climate change. Rising sea levels and coastal erosion, ocean acidification and the subsequent climate strategy irreversible damages to marine ecosystems, and the intensification of extreme weather events and cyclones, all pose a significant threat to the country’s economy and to the livelihood of many Mauritians. MCB Group’s ‘Success Beyond Numbers’ philosophy therefore entails a pledge for contributing to a 1.5°C-compatible pathway through a structured climate strategy to be launched in 2020. As of 2019, MCB had taken its first steps towards the fight against climate change by monitoring the climate impacts of everyday operations i.e. Scope 1 & 2 emissions and Scope 3 emissions – Business travel and employee commuting, representing 18,413 tCO2eq, about 0.35% of Mauritius’ net GHG emissions10. MCB will intensify its efforts to lower its emissions and will seek to compensate any remaining direct emissions through local projects, contributing to making Mauritius a carbon-neutral territory. However, as is the case for socio-economic impacts, MCB’s responsibility extends to the much greater indirect impacts caused by its loans and investment portfolios. % of Mauritius emissions Type of impact tCO2eq (Scope 1 and 2) MCB operations 18,413 0.35% MCB loans (6 types) 375,055 7.1% MCB investment portfolio To be assessed Representing more than 7% of Mauritius’ emissions, the substantial measured CO2eq. impact of loans disbursed by MCB underlines the necessity to reinforce its green loan offer and to actively contribute to local mitigation and compensation projects, in order to support Mauritius’ transition towards carbon-neutrality. 10 Environment Statistics 2018, Statistics Mauritius 68 Success Beyond Numbers With regards to its investment portfolio, MCB intends to better monitor its carbon-related assets and to assess the climate-related risks attached to its debt and equity holdings. A first, partial analysis regarding oil, gas, and coal-related assets shows an increase in fossil fuel exposure over the past three years, due the growth of our E&C activities. A climaterelated risk and opportunities assessment is expected to allow MCB to define an investment pathway that effectively contributes to economic development while also paving the way to a carbon-neutral society. That being said, it is important to understand that our E&C activities in Africa still contribute to the socio-economic development of the impacted regions by providing access to energy. It is therefore important to understand the energy context and imperatives of the countries in which we operate. In USD m June 2017 June 2018 June 2019 Oil & Gas 839 1451 1913 Trade Finance 690 1128 1303 Exploration & Production 65 99 213 Project Finance 0 26 22 Prepayments 84 198 375 Coal 52 121 100 Trade Finance 52 121 100 Total 890 1,572 2,013 % of total assets* 9.3% 15.0% 16.3% *Total assets of MCB Ltd In this regard, 2019 was a turning point for MCB as the Bank, for the first time, denied financing for a coal-powered power plant project on the grounds of climate responsibility. This choice triggered rich discussions between the project holders and the Bank about more environmentfriendly energy alternatives. This decision paves the way for better integration of climate risks in our investment and financing decisions. Success Beyond Numbers 69 Investing in our cultural and environmental heritage Partnership with the Mauritian Wildlife Foundation On 8 May 2019, MCB signed a three-year partnership with local NGO Mauritian Wildlife Foundation (MWF), committing to fund five of MWF’s existing programmes to the tune of some Rs 20 m over three years. The terms of the partnership include a direct financing of Rs 5 m every year until 2021 on top of a fund into which MCB pays 10 cents for every transaction clients make using their debit cards. It is estimated that this contribution will amount to between Rs 1.5 m to Rs 2 m a year. The rationale behind this partnership is to raise awareness on the need to include the protection of the island’s unique biodiversity in the country’s ongoing economic development and to favour green tourism. The five programmes sponsored by MCB are as follows: • Protection of the fragile biodiversity of Mauritius’ islets through inclusive participation MCB CEO, Alain Law Min and Chairman of MWF, Tim Taylor shake hands on a three-year deal. This programme consists of raising awareness among users of the islets found in the South East of Mauritius • Conservation of the Pink Pigeon endangered species until recently. on the unique biodiversity to be When the MWF was created 30 There are now 200 individuals on found on those islets as well as on years ago, there were only nine the islets. conservation efforts so far. The idea known individuals of this endemic • Conservation of the Round is to empower users – fishermen, bird. The population today is Island Boa skippers, boat operators and officers estimated to be at 480. Initially found on Round Island, of the National Coast Guard – to • Conservation of the Echo Parakeet there were 150 individuals of this act as guardians of those islets and The population of this endemic small reptile. The population now protect conservation efforts on the bird now stands at 800 against stands at 1600. Some of them have understanding that they also have nine individuals 30 years ago. been relocated on Gunner’s Quoin a stake in protecting those islets. • Conservation of the Gunther’s Gecko to ensure their survival. Training will soon extend to users of This endemic reptile is one of northern islets where conservation the largest geckos in the world work is also taking place. and was listed as a critically 70 Success Beyond Numbers MCB’s partnership with the Mauritian Wildlife Foundation includes a contribution every time a customer uses his or her debit card. MCB’s partnership with the Mauritian Wildlife Foundation extends to printing the NGO’s logo on all MCB debit cards as from September 2019. This will coincide with the replacement of all current debit cards made of plastic with ecological and recyclable cards made from maize. Success Beyond Numbers 71 Investing in our cultural and environmental heritage Partnership with Ebony Forest Ebony Forest covers 50 ha of almost decimated forest in Chamarel which are slowly being rehabilitated into an endemic forest. Rehabilitation of forests to their original state is a costly matter and MCB has over the years, been a regular sponsor of different activities to help Ebony Forest achieve its target of raising awareness on the importance of conservation work. Mauritius currently only has 2% of endemic forest. With the financial help of partners such as MCB, Ebony Forest has since 2007 planted 145,000 trees, representing a carbon offset of almost 25,000 tons. MCB has also sponsored 1 ha of Ebony Forest, thus taking the responsibility of reforesting this area together with its employees. This year’s sponsorship amounts to Rs 2.2 m and includes information packs for school children. 1 2 3 4 1. Restoring Ebony Forest to its original state has brought back insects that had not been seen in a long time. 2. This, believe it or not, is a sign of a healthy forest! 3. Snug and safe in its natural habitat: The endemic bat at Ebony Forest. 4. Endemic birds are overjoyed with the return of their favourite nourishment! 72 Success Beyond Numbers Plogging the way Raising awareness on the need to protect the environment goes through understanding how to awareness vast the undertaking is. In May 2019, some 100 MCB Group employees took to the streets of Les Salines in Port-Louis in their plogging attire – jogging gear, gloves and bin bags. As staff jogged through two different trails, a 1 km one and a 4.5 km one, they managed to collect half a tonne of rubbish ranging from plastic bottles to disused fridges. MCB staff jogging with a purpose MCB staff combined sports with cleanup on 9 May 2019 Success Beyond Numbers 73 Investing in our cultural and environmental heritage Positive impact products: the Green Loan The Green Loan is a responsible product offered by MCB Ltd in partnership with Agence Française de Développement (AFD) under SUNREF, its green finance label. The Green Loan, currently in its third phase, consists of a EUR 45 million line of credit out of a national line of Rs 60 million. What does it entail? • Preferential interest rates • An investment grant (cash-back) of: 5% on climate change mitigation projects, such as renewable energy projects, energy efficient equipment and installations 15% on climate change adaptation projects, such as water saving installations, rain water harvesting, seawater desalination, thermal insulation building techniques Additional grants offered to clients committing to assess gender balance within their organisations and undertake a gender action plan, as well as gender equality-related investments • Repayment period: minimum of four years • Financing of up to 100% of the investment, subject to the fulfilment of the eligibility criteria Statistics on Green Loans exposures Exposures by sector as at 30 June 2019 Renewable energy 48% Agro-industrial 20% Retail & commerce 17% 45.7 m Textile 7% EUR Others (includes education, real estate development & services) 3% Industry 3% Hotels and leisure 2% Exposures by segment Exposures by geography Individuals & SMEs 95.6% Mauritius 94% Corporate 4.4% Foreign 6% 74 Success Beyond Numbers Estimated environmental benefits of projects financed as at 30 June 2019 12,240 m3 of waste water reduced 7,000 litres of diesel saved 36,500 kg of liquefied petroleum gas saved 86,808 tonnes of CO2 emissions reduction 3,730,270 litres of heavy 14,400 tonnes 50.9 gWh fuel oil saved of grate ash recycled of electricity saved 529,903 m3 of clean water saved 57,600 tonnes of fly ash recycled 57,000 tonnes of import of pozzolanic construction material Success Beyond Numbers 75 Investing in our cultural and environmental heritage Culture Social integration in Mauritius remains an improvement point specifically with regards to discrimination. One of the pillars of the Group’s corporate sustainability programme seeks to address this issue by creating cultural and artistic avenues that cater for the wholesome development of both individual and collective identity. VIBE Moris® MCB created the song contest VIBE Moris® in 2018 and the second edition of the show was broadcast on national television in May and June 2019. The initiative required an investment of Rs 38 m that served the following purposes: • Encourage the creation and development of stage-related jobs • Demonstrate that there is scope for the emergence of a cultural industry • Train aspiring talents in different sectors – camera, lighting, production, editing and so on through exposure to professionals from abroad • Encourage artists to persevere in developing their talents by providing them with a platform • Encourage and nurture local talent • Create an environment that enables local service providers – caterers, transport, makeup, singing coaches etc – to profesionalise their services, in line with our objective to boost the local economy. 76 Success Beyond Numbers ‘Rises Nou Kiltir’ In April 2019, the Group launched a nationwide call for projects addressed to artists, groups of artists, organisations and managers/producers/impresarios and agents with the aim to support and enhance the promotion of the cultural and artistic heritage of Mauritius. The following sectors were concerned: • Music, singing, dance • Art and writing • Photography • Painting, sculpting • Theatre and performing arts • Film and documentaries Out of the 177 applications received for the first edition of the call for projects, 6 were selected and financed to the tune of Rs 7.9 m. Success Beyond Numbers 77 Investing in our cultural and environmental heritage Kreol as a customer The promotion of local culture goes through the use of the local language, Kreol, which is language also the lingua franca of many local artists. The call for projects Rises Nou Kiltir encouraged the use of Kreol while efforts are being made to provide a more inclusive Customer Service. Clients now have the option of Kreol when they call the Customer Hotline. When the Blue Penny The promotion of arts and culture and the protection of cultural heritage goes through brought Picasso making the arts accessible to the local public. This is the raison d’être of MCB’s Blue Penny to Mauritians Museum. Besides holding MCB’s vast private collection that regularly goes on display, the museum also hosts about four to five temporary exhibitions every year. The themes may vary but the principle of free entrance to encourage accessibility remains the same. 2018-2019 saw a first in the history of the Blue Penny museum when it hosted 45 of Pablo Picasso’s works, loaned to it by private collectors the world over. Emmanuel Richon and Steeve Sowamy, the two men whose passion helped bring Picasso to Mauritian shores. 78 Success Beyond Numbers Next steps The Group is currently working on its Climate Strategy to support the country’s transition to a low-carbon economy by acting on its direct as well as indirect impacts. Furthermore, we will continue our actions related to biodiversity protection by strengthening the current partnerships we have with the relevant organisations. Waste management is also an issue that the Group wishes to tackle. As such, we are currently negotiating partnerships that will help to sensitise the public to proper waste management and sorting while providing them with the means to do so. Having the Mauritian culture at heart, we will continue our actions towards the promotion of arts and local culture. This year we will see the launch of VIBE Moris® Season 3 and a second call for projects will also be initiated. Success Beyond Numbers 79 80 Success Beyond Numbers Investing in individual and collective well-being Success Beyond Numbers 81 Investing in individual and collective well-being Labour practices and decent work Human resources MCB Group has always put its people at the heart of its activities and strived to provide a approach working environment that is conducive to their personal development. We consider our diversified employee base as our most important asset and we strive to be an employer of choice. We are consistently challenging ourselves for continuous improvement in a bid to provide our employees with: • Adequate and continuous training and development • Opportunities for career advancement • A total compensation package that will help them achieve their personal goals • Recognition and reward mechanisms that foster a culture of performance 61% of our employees have been in continuous employment for six years and more, a testimony to the success of our retention efforts and our reputation as employer of choice. This is confirmed by our low staff turnover rate which stood at 5.6% at Group level in 2019. We have however noticed that staff turnover rates at foreign subsidiaries reach higher levels and we are currently working to find solutions to this issue. The Group ‘s Human Resources (HR) strategy consists of developing connectivity in order to build a human-centric digital financial services group. In this context, the HR Transformation Programme was devised to accomplish this and relevant information on the projects on the HR agenda were shared with staff by way of an Open Mic tour. This tour also provided an interactive platform during which key HR operatives met staff in all business units to listen to their preoccupations and gather their feedback to devise strategies adapted to evolutions in the workplace. Talent management within the organisation as well as the identification and development of leaders are a key part of this strategy. 82 Success Beyond Numbers General snapshot of MCB Group’s workforce Headcount by MCB entity 3,617 employees as at 30 June 2019 MCB Maldives 2% MCB Madagascar 3% MCB Seychelles 6% Local subsidiaries 10% MCB Ltd 79% Headcount by age distribution Length of service 3,617 3,617 employees employees 3 5 years 14% > 50 years 12% 6 10 years 18% < 30 years 33% < 3 years 25% 30-50 years 55% > 10 years 43% Headcount per generation More than 60% of employees with post-secondary level qualifications – at Group level in Mauritius 3,617 employees Baby boomers Born 1946 to 1964 6% Gen Z Born 1996 and later 8% Gen X Born 1965 to 1979 28% Gen Y Born 1980 to 1995 58% Success Beyond Numbers 83 Investing in individual and collective well-being Training and talent development MCB Group’s holistic approach to training and talent development is geared towards leveraging its talent & skills diversity as it represents a local productivity reservoir. The Group believes that adaptation is a key word and strives to encourage internal mobility as well as training to enable the development of a portfolio of vast skill sets. Our philosophy is to favour internal talent as much as possible while remaining on the lookout for external skills. Our priority is thus to invest in the development of internal talent at all hierarchical levels. Policies and processes in place to achieve such an objective include: • 80% of training courses are on-demand and business-oriented. • Talent is generally sourced 80% internally and 20% externally. • Continuous training is managed by each business line with a dedicated training budget for the year. • A process for defining customised development plans for promotions and/or job changes is in place. • A Study Assistance Scheme (SAS) is available to employees to promote further learning and the attainment of professional qualifications for continuous progress. Further initiatives were launched during the year with a view to enhancing the organisation’s training and talent development framework. These include a new performance management system – still in the test phase – with more continuous evaluation, discussion and feedback with revised tools i.e. an improved Performance Discussion Document, a The four-day induction programme for new recruits is Leadership Brand project that aims to essential to their proper understanding of the diverse develop a dedicated developmental operations of MCB. journey for leaders, and a new framework for talent management. The latter is being developed to identify the organisation’s “critical positions” for which succession planning is required and to detect and further develop consistently high-performing staff presenting high growth potential. Furthermore, an initial training (Induction Programme) is now offered to all new recruits. This training is followed by online tests to ensure that new employees MCB’s values are explained to new recruits through get acquainted with the Group’s interactive sessions. operations and internal processes. 84 Success Beyond Numbers Our training statistics at Group level for the year ending 30 June 2019 Training courses by type Generic courses 7% Overseas training 2% Others 12% Internal 36% Soft Courses 33% External 61% Technical courses 47% Figures do not add up to 100% due to rounding For the year ending 30 June 2019 – at MCB Group level Rs 59.5 M spent on training (net of refund by Human Resource Development Council in Mauritius) A total of 719 training courses given to employees An average of 1.6 trainings per employee (applicable only to MCB Ltd) Success Beyond Numbers 85 Investing in individual and collective well-being The Digital Factory or A digitalised world does not just mean new paving the way for the technology, it also means that it will in time, future of banking completely change the way our employees work, by improving efficiency of processes and ensuring seamless communication flows. The way our customers bank is also bound to evolve. As such, MCB has initiated the path for the digital transformation of its operations through the Digital Factory, a place where new ideas and new ways of banking are being incubated. The Digital Factory functions differently from the Bank’s other departments. It has adopted the agile way of working by forming squads (teams) that are made up of different competencies and skill sets. Those squads function autonomously and test their products in real time with customers and adapt the product according to feedback. This flexibility enables them to function in an agile configuration. As these new ways of working are not yet considered conventional, induction courses for new recruits include a module on digitalisation and agile work practices while a communication campaign aimed at existing employees has been initiated by HR, addressing all concerns they may have on how digitalisation will affect them. MCB IF shaping tomorrow’s finance In March 2019, MCB Group launched the MCB Institute of Finance (MCB IF) in collaboration with Uniciti Education Hub. The institute aims to provide specialised and continuous learning to students and professionals from the banking and financial sectors. In the long run, MCB IF aims to become a regional reference in terms of executive education. MCB Group employees can also follow the courses provided by the training institute. 86 Success Beyond Numbers Diversity Diversity and equal MCB Group is an equal opportunity employer and has always employed people based on their opportunity competencies. Our company’s Equal Opportunity Policy aims at continuously promoting an organisation where employees feel respected and valued, irrespective of their age, caste, colour, creed, ethnic origin, impairment, marital status, place of origin, political opinion, race, sex or sexual orientation. All our human resources practices are aligned with this philosophy. As such, selection for employment, promotion, transfer, training and access to benefits, facilities and services are fair and equitable and based solely on merit. An employee grievance process is also in place whereby employees believing they have been subject to discriminatory practices can directly contact the Head of Human Resources. Each complaint is seriously investigated and appropriate actions are subsequently taken and closely monitored. MCB Ltd’s GOAL: At least 40% women at middle and senior management levels by 2026 Although we genuinely believe that diversity and equal opportunity bring tangible benefits to our organisation and businesses in general, we have observed a noticeable gender gap at higher levels of responsibilities. We are committed to fight this gap and glass ceiling, which are typical to the Banking and Finance industry. By finding and implementing solutions to reduce this gap, MCB Ltd aims at having at least 40% women at middle and senior management levels by 2026 i.e. at Business Manager, Business Leader and Business Executive levels. Our diversified Gender distribution within MCB Group Headcount distribution by job band workforce at MCB Ltd 2,861 employees characteristics as at 30 June 2019 51% Business Executive 6 100% 49% 24% Business Leader 25 76% 28% Business Manager 114 1,776 1,841 72% 42% Business Professional 513 58% 44% Business Associate 629 56% 63% Number of employees Business Support 1047 37 % Female 2% Technical 252 98% Male 63 % Other* 275 37 % * Other refers mainly to interns and contractors 98.9% Headcount by nationality MCB Group 0.5% in Mauritius 3,233 employees 1.1% 0.3% 0.1% Mauritius France India UK Others 0.2% Success Beyond Numbers 87 Investing in individual and collective well-being Remuneration Since we consider our human capital critical to the sustainability of our business, the Group philosophy rewards its employees adequately, in line with the market conditions prevailing. As such, the latter are regularly surveyed to ensure that our remuneration packages are motivating and competitive. Again, our remuneration philosophy is gender neutral, based on meritocracy, and ensures that salaries of employees at the lower end of the income ladder guarantee decent living conditions, while still ensuring fairness and equity. Furthermore, on top of the annual performance bonus linked to the Group’s financial results, our employees have the opportunity to subscribe to a Group Share Option Scheme. Other valuable benefits provided to our staff are: • In-house pension schemes • Medical coverage for all employees and their dependents • Loans at preferential rates • Holidays benefits scheme There exists a gender salary gap within our organisation. The latter gap and former philosophy are not antinomies since the gender pay gap calculation is dependent on the distribution of female and male employees across all levels of responsibilities. This year we disclose for the first time the average salary figure within our organisation. While considerably higher than the national average salary, the figure is slightly lower than the national sector wage. However these numbers are not strictly comparable as our business model is quite different from our peers’ – we employ a high number of technical staff as we limit outsourcing of services, and our pay structure is different, notably in relation to the performance bonuses we provide. As at 30 June 2019 6 women in a leadership team of 31 (MCB Ltd only) 28.6% average monthly basic salary gap* between women and men within MCB in Mauritius vs 23.8% national average salary gap11 Rs 46,078 average monthly basic salary* at MCB in Mauritius vs Rs 29,896 national average salary12 (Rs 51,141 for Finance and Insurance activities at national level) 52% of internal promotions given to female employees (MCB Ltd and local subsidiaries) 1.9% of employees with disabilities (MCB Ltd and local subsidiaries) * Average salary for bands ranging from Technical to Business Manager 11 Gender statistics 2018 – Statistics Mauritius 12 Survey of employment and earnings in large establishments (SEE) – March 2018 – Statistics Mauritius 88 Success Beyond Numbers Well-being at work Health & safety The Group is committed to providing the highest standards of safety and health throughout its business activities as far as reasonably possible. The Occupational Safety and Health (OSH) Policy of MCB Ltd, in line with legal and regulatory requirements, aims to ensure a safe and healthy working environment for all employees. The Management of Group entities is responsible to ensure the protection of workers’ safety and health by setting up appropriate strategies to effectively manage issues that are raised. The Management has a critical role in providing adequate resources to achieve standards and practices required for OSH, risk management and compliance with legal obligations. At the level of MCB Ltd, each Head of Strategic Business Unit (SBU) and Business Unit (BU) manager is responsible for ensuring that operations do not constitute a hazard to the safety and health of employees. The Human Resource SBU is responsible for the coordination of initiatives undertaken to achieve health and safety objectives. As mentioned in the previous section, MCB offers its employees and their dependents the possibility to subscribe to a medical scheme. This scheme is subsidised to a ratio of 2/3 of the premium. The group also promotes physical health amongst its staff. An annual health week is organised for employees. The latter comprises of basic health checks by a renowned health service provider, and talks on various topics of interest e.g. ergonomics, healthy diet, common non-communicable diseases, etc. Furthermore, MCB recently issued internally a Disease Outbreak and Pandemic Preparedness Policy which aims at safeguarding the health and safety of its staff and limit the risk of contamination during an outbreak, while at the same time, ensuring continuity of operations in order to protect customers’ and shareholders’ interests. As at 30 June 2019 at MCB Ltd and local subsidiaries level 132 days of injury leaves were taken by 21 employees Our absenteeism rate stood at 2.7%* * Absenteeism rate is calculated as such: Total number of days lost from work due to inability to work / (Average number of employees X Total working days per employee) X 100% Success Beyond Numbers 89 Investing in individual and collective well-being Employee dialogue MCB Group takes the feedback of its staff As mentioned earlier in this section, the Group very seriously. We use internal surveys to recently organised an Open Mic tour, as part evaluate staff engagement and satisfaction of the HR Transformation programme during in view of providing them with the best which key HR operatives, including the Head working conditions required to fulfill their of Human Resources, went to all business responsibilities. The latest engagement units to listen to employees and collect their survey was held in 2016 and the results were feedback on the Group’s HR strategies and shared among the staff. Focus groups were approach to staff well-being. These sessions then organised and action plans devised per were particularly fruitful as various ideas and BU to address relevant issues. suggestions were discussed and gathered. A restitution meeting is currently being planned When it comes to discussing work issues, to communicate on the priorities being the Group has operated a shift from addressed and related action plans. a top-down approach to encouraging employees more and more to share their Each employee goes through a formal views during weekly/monthly meetings, or performance discussion exercise twice a even on a day-to-day basis through informal year. This is an opportunity for the employee interactions. Leaders and managers now not only to discuss his/her performance favour informal relationships with their throughout the year, but also talk about team and are opting for an open door his/her working environment and whether policy whereby employees are encouraged or not it is conducive to the fulfillment of to discuss workplace issues openly. professional duties. 90 Success Beyond Numbers Professional and The Group believes that professional and Regarding paid leaves, the number of days off personal life balance personal life balance is key to its staff’s offered is based on the prevailing regulation wellbeing and has therefore implemented in the country. A certain amount of flexibility some measures to ensure that its is however given to employees with regards employees have a well-balanced life and to paid leave where business conditions allow. have access to the necessary help in case Employees are also able to carry forward part they face any life hardships. of their leaves not taken during any given year to the following calendar year, and should Our organisation’s culture focuses an employee require additional paid leaves on excellence and the measurement (to be approved by the manager and HR) for and achievement of set targets at particular reasons, leaves can be deducted organisational, departmental and from the following year’s balance. This individual level. MCB Group strives to give a flexibility allows the employee to better plan better work-life balance for its employees, their holidays or events requiring them to take drive change, and maintain a healthy long leaves such as studies and weddings. working environment while ensuring that employees have access to all necessary To cater for staff’s mental well-being, an facilities to achieve those targets. organisational in-house Psychologist is available on a part time basis at the MCB A flexi-time policy is currently in place Head Office and St Jean premises to provide where employees can apply and work adequate support and counselling to based on their preferred work schedule employees in need. Employees may wish to arrangement. Employees under flexi-time consult with the in-house psychologist for need to be present at their desks during core both professional and personal issues. working hours and need to complete the minimum work week hours. The flexi-time A recent audit by ‘Great Place to Work’ has facility is however only applicable to some highlighted the fact that there is still room departments where employees are flexible for improvement on the work-life balance in terms of deliverables and interaction facilities offered by the Group in order to with clients. It does not currently apply to measure up to best-in-class practices. In employees in the retail banking network particular, lack of policies to accommodate and branches for example. The Group is parenthood with professional practice have also presently testing the work from home been pointed out. We are therefore currently facility in a number of departments such as investigating further measures to support the IT and HR BUs. employees in caring for their families. Success Beyond Numbers 91 Investing in individual and collective well-being Customer accessibility and inclusiveness Through its customised solutions, the geographical positioning of its branches and the modernisation of its remote channels, the Group strives to empower its clients and foster financial inclusion, notably vis-à-vis the low-income customer groups as well as micro-enterprises and self-employed individuals. Offerings are undertaken via multiple channels and aim to simplify customer experiences and interactions. MCB continuously improves the convenience of its digital channels, the Bank’s ‘JuiceByMCB’ mobile banking platform being a key example. MCB plans to reshape several customer journeys in the next few months to offer clients more choice and speed in their banking operations. Rupys is an MCB financial product for children aged under 18. A new version of the product now bears interest bonuses instead of gifts, accompanied by initiatives to encourage savings from an early age. Our goal: To increase financial literacy in children. 92 Success Beyond Numbers Financial literacy Africa is at the bottom of the table in terms of financial literacy13. Several countries where MCB Group is involved – including Mauritius – are found under the 50% rate: Ethiopia, Madagascar, Tanzania and South Africa. The Group has a role to play in Mauritius, as well as in other of its other countries of operation to promote financial literacy. We communicate in three languages: Creole, French and English, depending on the product audience. MCB raises awareness on different themes: • Digital payments and how to use them Via our mobile banking app ‘JuiceByMCB’, the Bank provides to its customers a range of functionalities to simplify banking procedures. A Chatbot is also available to assist customers. Videos will be launched shortly to educate clients on the usefulness, efficiency and simplicity of digital channels on top of internal campaigns and meetings to train staff in every branch. • Housing loan In the pipeline, is an educational campaign to explain the ins and outs of housing loans to clients, including the importance of the relevant documents to be submitted, the taxes to be paid, the conditions, the associated costs, etc. Our aim is to be as transparent as possible on all fees associated to the loan facility. 13 Financial literacy around the world Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services (2015). Financial literacy here is defined as having knowledge of four fundamental concepts for financial decision-making:—simple interest, compound interest, inflation, and risk diversification. Success Beyond Numbers 93 Investing in individual and collective well-being Focus on The Bank is anchored in Mauritius through branches and 24/7 kiosks, both in urban and rural accessibility areas. This remains important for the less digitalised population and it complements MCB’s growing digital offer. MCB Ltd has 40 physical branches/kiosks in Mauritius Customer Being a customer-centric organisation, the Group knows that the quality of its customer satisfaction experience is key to the success of its operations. As such, we do our utmost to deliver exceptional service and appealing digital solutions to our clients, while seeking to exceed their expectations. Alongside placing customers at the centre of our efforts and activities, we provide products and services that they value and trust. Providing effective processes for dealing with complaints is thus a priority for us and we continuously monitor the situation to ensure that our customers get the highest level of service they deserve. MCB customer complaints statistics Net promoter score in 2019 for year ended 30 June 2019 14.15% 45.88% 10,675 39.97% Detractor Number resolved in more than 5 days 15% Passive Number resolved in 5 or less days 85% Promoter The Group also regularly monitors the loyalty of its customers through surveys compiled via an internal brand tracker dashboard. Our latest Net Promoter Score (NPS), calculated in 2019, stood at 31.7, with promoter score reaching 45.88%. We are currently in the process of implementing an omnichannel customer experience management platform which will ultimately enable us to optimise customer acquisition, improve customer retention and loyalty, reduce cost to serve and enhance brand awareness and equity. 94 Success Beyond Numbers Corporate social responsibility (CSR) MCB Group aims to promote social well-being, empowerment of those in need and reduce inequalities via its CSR arm – the MCB Forward Foundation (MCBFF). MCBFF finances impactful projects in different areas such as absolute poverty alleviation and community empowerment, education, social housing, socio-economic development and welfare of children. For the year under review, an aggregate amount of around Rs 54.7 m was entrusted to MCBFF to be leveraged for spending on relevant projects, after making allowance for the Government policy that 50% of CSR contributions by local entities for projects initiated prior to January 2019 should be channeled to the Mauritius Revenue Authority (MRA). These funds were spent on 15 projects of which 13 were ongoing. The five largest projects financed last year were: Projects Rs m MCB Football Academy Operations 7.01 External Resource Persons 8.40 Educational Support & Training 9.15 Health 0.61 Social Housing 8.18 Service dedicated to Children suffering from mental health disorders (Open Mind) 3.09 Integrated Housing Project (Social Housing Cité Tôle) 2.58 MCB Rodrigues Scholarship 2.39 Support to primary school children out of mainstream education system (Oasis de Paix) 2.21 Total 43.57 Results • In all, 15 households under the MCB Football Academy benefitted from renovated housing arrangements. • In October 2018, MCB Forward Foundation officially handed the keys to their brand new houses to six families of Cité Tôle after seven years of working with the community. At the end of this project, all the families were in employment and the children were in school. • In May 2019, 28 football coaches from Mauritius and Rodrigues benefitted, with MCB Football Academy’s help, from training in new techniques from international coaches, under the aegis of German Football Consulting GbR. Of note, the recently conducted Great Place to Work’s culture audit emphasised that MCB Group’s CSR commitments and actions are among the best-in-class practices. Success Beyond Numbers 95 Investing in individual and collective well-being Cité Tôle When staff of the MCB Forward Foundation paid their first visit to Cité Tôle in 2011, they were greeted with skepticism. Inhabitants of the slum are former squatters who were later registered but who live in a state of exclusion and poverty. Most of them do not have regular jobs while many of their children drop out of school at a young age. Drugs, alcoholism, prostitution and promiscuity are rife. The project consisted of a plan to provide housing to as many families as possible, on the condition that they undergo therapy and that they subject themselves to qualitative and quantitative studies on their situations. Out of 51 families, 32 were deemed eligible (people involved in illicit activities were de facto disqualified) but that number eventually came down to just six as families dropped out or were asked to leave the programme. Some of them would find the sessions with psychologists too intrusive while others would refuse to work or send their children to school. Seven years later, in October 2018, the six families were handed the keys to their brand new concrete house. All members of those families have a job and all their children go to school. Meanwhile even those families who did not make it through the programme benefitted as their residential area became more hospitable with asphalted roads, rubbish and recycling bins and weekly garbage collection. Beneficiaries reimburse just Rs 100,000 of the Rs 1.5 m the houses cost because the MCB Forward Foundation believes that it teaches them responsibility. 96 Success Beyond Numbers Next steps In an endeavour to enable its staff to contribute to building to implement key impactful measures that improve our a more prosperous society for future generations, the employees’ working conditions and enable them succeed in Group launched, last July, its first ever Social Leave. While their professional careers. this currently only applies to Mauritius, the initiative will be extended to foreign subsidiaries soon. The Social Leave gives MCB Group has always had at heart the fight against the opportunity to each employee of the Group, via a one-day inequalities in Mauritius. We will continue our social mission paid leave, to carry out social work by helping an NGO in its through the MCB Forward Foundation and strive to create day-to-day activities. Employees have a choice of social activity meaningful positive impacts amongst populations in need. from a pool of programmes crafted with selected NGOs Furthermore, the Group is currently investigating avenues to involved in environmental preservation and social actions. boost the social and solidarity economy sector in Mauritius, with an aim to build a more inclusive society conscious of Staff well-being and development are key concerns for environmental and social issues. the Group and we remain committed, as far as reasonable, Success Beyond Numbers 97 GRI reference table This sustainability report has been prepared as per the recommendations of GRI. The table below identifies the information disclosed that match GRI Standards reporting requirements. Number Status Standard Name Chapter Page 102-1 CORE Name of the organisation Chapter I >> MCB Group at a glance 10 Chapter I >> MCB Group at a glance 10 Chapter IV >> Financial services 53 102-2 CORE Activities, brands, products, and services Chapter IV >> Microfinance 55 Chapter IV >> Positive impact products: the Green Loan 74 102-3 CORE Location of headquarters Chapter I >> Where we operate 12 Chapter I >> Where we operate 12 102-4 CORE Location of operations Chapter IV >> Tax responsibility 52 Chapter IV >> Financial services 53 102-5 CORE Ownership and legal form Chapter II >> The Mauritian context and challenges 17 Chapter I >> MCB Group at a glance 10 102-6 CORE Markets served Chapter I >> Where we operate 12 Chapter I >> MCB Group at a glance 10 Chapter I >> Some perspective... 11 102-7 CORE Scale of the organisation Chapter I >> Value distribution 11 Chapter I >> Where we operate 12 Chapter II >> The Mauritian context & challenges 17 Chapter VI >> Labour practices and decent work (Incomplete) 82 102-8 CORE Information on employees and other workers Chapter VI >> Diversity (Incomplete) 87 102-9 CORE Supply chain Chapter IV >> Procurement practices (Incomplete) 54 102-10 CORE Significant changes to the organisation and its supply chain Foreword 1 102-11 CORE Precautionary Principle or approach Chapter III >> Ethics & integrity 36 102-12 CORE External initiatives Chapter III >> External sustainability initiatives 42 Chapter V >> Partnership with the Mauritian Wildlife Foundation 70 102-13 CORE Membership of associations Chapter V >> Partnership with Ebony Forest 72 Chapter IV >> Lobbying 54 102-14 CORE Statement from senior decision-maker Foreword 1 Chapter III >> Business transparency & human rights risks 38 102-16 CORE Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior Chapter III >> Product responsibility Equator Principles 40 102-17 SUPP Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics Chapter III >> Ethics & integrity 36 102-18 CORE Governance structure Chapter II >> ‘Success Beyond Numbers’ governance 32 Executive-level responsibility for economic, 102-20 SUPP Chapter II >> ‘Success Beyond Numbers’ governance 32 environmental, and social topics Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, 102-21 SUPP Chapter II >> Stakeholder engagement 24 and social topics 102-25 SUPP Conflicts of interests Chapter III >> Ethics & integrity (Incomplete) 36 102-30 SUPP Effectiveness of risk management processes Chapter III >> Ethics & integrity 36 102-40 CORE List of stakeholder groups Chapter II >> Stakeholder engagement 24 102-41 CORE Collective bargaining agreements Chapter VI >> Well-being at work Employee dialogue (Incomplete) 90 102-42 CORE Identifying and selecting stakeholders Chapter II >> Stakeholder engagement 24 102-43 CORE Approach to stakeholder engagement Chapter II >> Stakeholder engagement 24 Chapter II >> Stakeholder engagement 24 102-44 CORE Key topics and concerns raised Chapter II >> Mauritian context & challenges 17 Chapter II >> Introducing our material issues 20 Entities included in the consolidated financial Chapter I >> Where we operate 12 102-45 CORE statements Foreword 1 Foreword 1 102-46 CORE Defining report content and topic Boundaries Chapter II >> Mauritian context & challenges 17 Chapter II >> Introducing our material issues 20 Chapter II >> Mauritian context & challenges 17 102-47 CORE List of material topics Chapter II >> Introducing our material issues 20 102-48 CORE Restatements of information Foreword 1 102-49 CORE Changes in reporting Foreword 1 102-50 CORE Reporting period Foreword 1 98 Success Beyond Numbers Number Status Standard Name Chapter Page 102-51 CORE Date of most recent report Foreword 1 102-52 CORE Reporting cycle Foreword 1 102-53 CORE Contact point for questions regarding the report Foreword 1 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI 102-54 CORE Foreword 1 Standards 102-55 CORE GRI content index GRI reference table 98 102-56 CORE External assurance Foreword 1 Foreword 1 Chapter II >> The Mauritian context & challenges 17 103-1 CORE Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Chapter II >> Introducing our material issues 20 Chapter II >> Direct & indirect Impacts 22 Foreword 1 103-2 CORE The management approach and its components Chapter II >> ‘Success Beyond Numbers’ governance 32 103-3 CORE Evaluation of the management approach Chapter III >> Ethics & integrity 36 Chapter II >> The Mauritian context & challenges 17 201-1 CORE Direct economic value generated and distributed Chapter I >> Value distribution (Incomplete) 11 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared 202-1 CORE Chapter VI >> Diversity Remuneration philosophy (Incomplete) 88 to local minimum wage Chapter IV >> Socio-economic footprint of MCB Ltd’s activities 50 203-1 CORE Infrastructure investments and services supported Chapter VI >> Corporate social responsibility (CSR) 95 Chapter V >> Indirect environmental impacts of MCB Ltd 66 203-2 SUPP Significant indirect economic impacts Chapter V >> Positive impact products: the Green Loan 74 204-1 CORE Proportion of spending on local suppliers Chapter IV >> Procurement practices (Incomplete) 54 205-1 CORE Operations assessed for risks related to corruption Chapter III >> Ethics & integrity (Incomplete) 36 Communication and training about anti-corruption 205-2 SUPP Chapter III >> Ethics & integrity 36 policies and procedures Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, 206-1 CORE ----and monopoly practices 301-1 CORE Materials used by weight or volume Chapter V >> Direct environmental impacts of MCB Ltd 60 302-1 CORE Energy consumption within the organisation Chapter V >> Direct environmental impacts of MCB Ltd 60 302-3 SUPP Energy intensity Chapter V >> Direct environmental impacts of MCB Ltd 60 302-4 SUPP Reduction of energy consumption Chapter V >> Direct environmental impacts of MCB Ltd 60 Reductions in energy requirements of products and 302-5 SUPP Chapter V >> Indirect environmental impacts of MCB Ltd 66 services 303-1 CORE Water withdrawal by source Chapter V >> Direct environmental impacts of MCB Ltd 60 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or 304-1 CORE adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high ----biodiversity value outside protected areas Significant impacts of activities, products and services 304-2 SUPP Chapter V >> Positive impact products: the Green Loan 74 on biodiversity 304-3 SUPP Habitats protected or restored Chapter V >> Partnership with the Mauritian Wildlife Foundation 70 305-1 CORE Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Chapter V >> Carbon footprint of MCB Ltd 64 305-2 SUPP Energy Indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Chapter V >> Carbon footprint of MCB Ltd 64 305-3 SUPP Other Indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Chapter V >> Carbon footprint of MCB Ltd 64 305-5 SUPP Reduction of GHG emissions Chapter V >> Climate assessment and strategy 68 306-1 CORE Water discharge by quality and destination Chapter V >> Direct environmental impacts of MCB Ltd (Incomplete) 60 Non-compliance with environmental laws and 307-1 CORE ----regulations New suppliers that were screened using environmental 308-1 CORE Chapter IV >> Procurement practices (Incomplete) 54 criteria Chapter VI >> Labour practices and decent work (Incomplete) 82 401-1 CORE New employee hires and employee turnover Chapter VI >> Diversity (Incomplete) 87 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not 401-2 SUPP Chapter VI >> Diversity Remuneration philosophy (Incomplete) 88 provided to temporary or part-time employees Success Beyond Numbers 99 Number Status Standard Name Chapter Page 402-1 CORE Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes ----Workers representation in formal joint management– 403-1 CORE Chapter VI >> Well-being at work Health & safety 89 worker health and safety committees Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational 403-2 SUPP diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of Chapter VI >> Well-being at work Health & safety 89 work-related fatalities 404-1 CORE Average hours of training per year per employee Chapter VI >> Training and talent development (Incomplete) 84 Programmes for upgrading employee skills and 404-2 SUPP Chapter VI >> Labour practices and decent work 82 transition assistance programmes Chapter VI >> Labour practices and decent work (Incomplete) 82 405-1 CORE Diversity of governance bodies and employees Chapter VI >> Diversity Diversity and equal opportunity (Incomplete) 87 405-2 SUPP Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men Chapter VI >> Labour practices and decent work 82 406-1 CORE Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken Chapter VI >> Diversity Diversity and equal opportunity (Incomplete) 87 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom 407-1 CORE Chapter III >> Business transparency & human rights risks 38 of association and collective bargaining may be at risk Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents 408-1 CORE Chapter III >> Business transparency & human rights risks 38 of child labor Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents 409-1 CORE Chapter III >> Business transparency & human rights risks 38 of forced or compulsory labor Security personnel trained in human rights policies or 410-1 CORE Chapter III >> Business transparency & human rights risks 38 procedures Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous 411-1 CORE Chapter III >> Business transparency & human rights risks 38 peoples Operations that have been subject to human rights 412-1 CORE Chapter III >> Business transparency & human rights risks 38 reviews or impact assessments Operations with local community engagement, impact Chapter IV >> ‘Lokal Is Beautiful’: the rationale behind the first pillar 46 413-1 CORE assessments, and development programmes Chapter V >> Culture 76 414-1 CORE New suppliers that were screened using social criteria ----415-1 CORE Political contributions Chapter IV >> Lobbying 54 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product 416-1 CORE Chapter III >> Product responsibility 40 and service categories Requirements for product and service information 417-1 CORE Chapter III >> Product responsibility 40 and labeling Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of Chapter III >> Responsible data 39 418-1 CORE customer privacy and losses of customer data Chapter VI >> Customer accessibility and inclusiveness 92 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social 419-1 CORE ----and economic area 100 Success Beyond Numbers Concept and design by James Rajabally www.mcbgroup.com
