UN Global Compact Communication on Progress March 29, 2020 From our Chairman White & Case became a signatory to the UN Global  Our Environmental Sustainability Committee Compact in 2016, affirming our commitment to doing implemented an environmental management system business responsibly by aligning with its ten principles across all of our offices. One outcome of these efforts on human rights, labor, the environment and antihas been the elimination or significant reduction of corruption. single use plastics. This is our third Communication on Progress. It  Our Global Citizenship activities, which include our pro outlines the steps we took in 2019 to continue to bono work, strongly support the UN’s Sustainable embed these principles in our strategy, culture and Development Goals. The majority of our pro bono work day-to-day operations. in 2019 was aligned most closely with SDG 16 (Peace, justice and strong institutions), which includes work with Highlights include: the UN, individual representation, class action suits and amicus briefs, as well as research on these issues. We  Our Responsible Business Working Group also had significant concentrations of pro bono work in enhanced its oversight of our supply chain risks the areas of gender equality (SDG 5), quality education by implementing an online portal for (SDG 4) and decent work and economic growth (SDG 8). environmental, social and governance risk We continued to see record growth: lawyers in all of our management disclosure by our key suppliers. offices and in every practice collectively devoted more than 140,000 hours to pro bono matters. White & Case is committed to fair and ethical operations that respect human rights and recognize the importance of our natural environment. Hugh Verrier Human Rights Principles 1. White & Case supports and respects the protection of Our Global Privacy of Personal Data Policy and local privacy internationally proclaimed human rights. policies in each office spell out our commitment to and processes for protecting the privacy of personal data for all 2. White & Case makes sure that it is not complicit in our partners and personnel, their family members, human rights abuses. contractors and applicants. Our Client Privacy Policy, posted on our website, sets out our commitment to protecting the Our Responsible Business Working Group chaired by our privacy rights of our clients and their personnel. co-General Counsels includes the heads of Procurement and Global Citizenship as well as representatives from our Our Business & Human Rights Interest Group supports our Global People team and Facilities Management. The lawyers in providing assistance to our commercial clients on Working Group meets quarterly and supports the Firm’s the legal and reputational risks and opportunities they face Executive Committee and Global Risk Management in addressing human rights issues in their operations and Committee on policy review and implementation of our supply chains. The Interest Group also offers practicecommitment to human rights and environmental specific training sessions on business and human rights sustainability. The Working Group is responsible for developments and a general overview for Business Services identifying, reporting and addressing any human rights risks Managers. For more detail, please visit or abuses in our operations or our key suppliers. www.whitecase.com/law/practices/business-human-rights. Its principal accomplishments to date are: Our Global Pro Bono Practice remains the centerpiece of our Global Citizenship activities. In 2019, we delivered more  the creation and release of our annual than 140,000 pro bono hours to provide access to justice, Statement on Slavery and Human Trafficking; promote the rule of law and serve organizations with social and environmental missions. Highlights in 2019 included:  the development of a Supplier Code of Conduct;  White & Case is one of five law firms and two NGOs—  formal integration of environmental, social and European Lawyers in Lesvos and U.K. charity Refugee governance (ESG) screening into our vendor Legal Support—participating in a new initiative through selection process; which our lawyers work onsite at the refugee camp in Lesvos for two-week placements year-round, providing  incorporation of contractual commitments relating to limited-scope legal assistance such as preparing refugees human rights into our vendor agreements; for first-instance interviews, conducting interviews, and assisting with family-reunification applications. By the end  the pilot of an online portal for ESG disclosure by our of 2019, we had sent 11 lawyers to Lesvos and have sent legacy key and significant suppliers; a further three in the first half of 2020 from our offices in Europe and the Middle East.  incorporation of a supply chain and procurement analysis into our periodic Risk Management Audits in  Since 2016, we have reviewed all Voluntary National each office; and Reviews, with 158 submitted to date, for The Global  analysis of material supply chain ESG risks in key Alliance for Reporting on Peaceful, Just and Inclusive locations for the most relevant types of suppliers. Societies to determine the extent to which countries are reporting on SDG 16 (Peace, Justice and Institutions) and its related indicators. Our analysis is helping the UN UN GLOBAL COMPACT WHITE & CASE 2 support countries as they report and enhance internal A focus on US human rights litigation planning and data collection.  We obtained a US$27.127 million jury verdict on behalf of  Fourteen lawyers from five offices provided REDRESS and Mark Schand after proving that his civil rights had been Child Rights International Network with research to inform violated by four police detectives from the Springfield a comprehensive report on enhancing redress and Police Department in a key civil rights case. Mr. Schand accountability for child sexual abuse by peacekeepers, the spent 27 years in prison after being wrongly convicted of findings of which are being used to inform advocacy at the murder in 1987. national and UN levels, and set out a roadmap for potential future strategic litigation.  Working with the ArchCity Defenders, St. Louis University School of Law and Civil Rights Corps, we are representing  A team of 17 from eight offices provided Child Rights a class of plaintiffs suing the City of Ferguson, Missouri in International Network with a legal mapping of the statutes relation to its operation of a debtor’s prison through the of limitations for child sexual abuse in nine Latin American routine arrest and imprisonment of poor, primarily African countries. In collaboration with survivor groups, CRIN has American residents for their failure to pay fines from minor used our research to produce a report on the reforms municipal offenses. Class certification is due in summer needed and that are underway to target countries for law 2020. reform.  Since 2012 we have acted as amicus counsel for a country  Forty-six lawyers from 15 offices analyzed how legal aid whose dual-national, a sufferer of Partial Fetal Alcohol services are provided in 19 countries with the aim of Syndrome, faced the death penalty in South Carolina. We helping the International Legal Foundation (ILF) create argued that his cognitive deficits were similar to the consensus on best practices to define and measure the intellectually disabled, making him ineligible for the death quality of criminal legal aid services. The ILF shared this penalty. In 2019, the US Supreme Court freed the research with government officials, international legal defendant from death row. experts and public defenders from more than 50 countries at the Third International Conference on Access to Legal  We lead two solitary confinement cases against Virginia— Aid in Criminal Justice Systems. Conference participants one representing a prisoner confined for 12 years, facing a adopted the Tbilisi Declaration calling for “clear total of 31, and another class action to end long-term performance standards and guidelines that set the solitary confinement at two supermax prisons. In the first minimum activities necessary for providing quality legal aid appeal, our client has now been transferred out of solitary services.” The ILF continues to use this research in confinement after the state’s lack of mental health care for advocacy with UN bodies and member states as it makes solitary prisoners was found to violate the 8th Amendment. the case for global quality legal aid standards to protect Our class action has already led to preemptive reforms, but poor and vulnerable individuals accused of a crime. we continue to prepare to take the case to trial.  On behalf of the Public International Law & Policy Group (PILPG), we analyzed relevant laws of Ethiopia’s criminal justice system in the context of pre-trial detention and international human rights standards, which has contributed to a PILPG report that recommends the development of new and enforcement of existing legislation to prevent torture and arbitrary arrest and detention practices.  We researched the laws relevant to protecting minors from early and forced marriage to support nonprofit Street Child ‘Safer Schools’ project in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, which addresses socially sensitive issues through dialogue and behavioral changes. UN GLOBAL COMPACT WHITE & CASE 3 Labor Principles 3. White & Case upholds the freedom of association and 6. White & Case upholds the elimination of discrimination the effective recognition of the right to collective in respect of employment and occupation. bargaining. Our Global Policy on Equal Opportunity and Professional We are committed to a fair and balanced approach to Work Environment sets out our objective of providing a relations with employee representatives. Each office has a professional, collegial working environment in which all Workplace Committee with representation from a crossindividuals, whatever their background or status within the section of our people. We support a wide range of vibrant Firm, are treated with respect and dignity. White & Case employee affinity groups. Please see below for more does not permit harassment or intimidation of any sort and information on our affinity groups and our policies related to will make every effort to provide a working environment free professional work environment, whistleblowing and from such behavior. In addition to our global policy, we have discrimination, including discrimination based on trade union a sexual harassment and discrimination policy in each of our membership. offices around the world, as well as a local grievance procedure. Anonymous reports may be made by calling our 4. White & Case upholds the elimination of all forms of forced Whistleblower Hotline or using our web-based reporting tool. and compulsory labor. Our commitment to providing equal opportunities to all 5. White & Case upholds the effective abolition of child applies during each phase of an individual’s career with labor. White & Case including, but not limited to, recruitment, employment, job assignment, training, promotion, salary and Our annual Statement on Slavery and Human Trafficking other forms of compensation and termination, in all of the affirms our commitment to employees’ rights and highlights Firm’s offices. We have in place systems to ensure full our adherence to public accountability and transparency. We compliance with relevant labor laws relating to employee take a zero tolerance approach to modern slavery and forced terms and conditions, including equal pay, and we support labor in all forms within our organization and supply chain. It the health and financial needs of our employees at different is the role of the Responsible Business Working Group to stages of their lives by providing a flexible benefits program. identify and address any risks or instances of forced labor or Each year we review all of our policies globally to be sure we child labor in our operations and supply chain. are compliant with all local labor laws, including minimum wage, hour laws, sick time, and leave. We expect our suppliers to share our values and have implemented a supply chain compliance program to impose We have instituted an upward review process for all lawyers contractual obligations on all key suppliers, including and Business Service Leaders, the findings of which are compliance with relevant laws (including those related to analyzed for patterns and issues in aggregate. Issues are modern slavery) and requirements to impose similar addressed for individuals or groups via training and standards on their suppliers. counselling. Our Global Pro Bono Practice actively seeks matters that The diversity of our people is a strength. We continue to support the elimination of human trafficking, forced labor work on creating an environment where all who work here and child labor. For example, our Hong Kong office is are encouraged, assisted and inspired to reach their working with local barristers and a local NGO to represent potential, regardless of race, color, ethnicity, religion, four female domestic workers from Kenya who are gender, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, suspected victims of human trafficking. In 2019, our lawyers national origin, age, marital status or disability. also represented a number of victims of child prostitution and child abuse through referrals from child rights NGO Agir contre la Prostitution des Enfants. We also provided a broad range of corporate governance, IP and employment advice to End Child Prostitution and Trafficking of Children for Sexual Purposes (ECPAT). UN GLOBAL COMPACT WHITE & CASE 4 White & Case consistently ranks among the best firms for The Firm supports nine affinity groups that are open to diversity and inclusion. Highlights of the recognition that we everyone at the Firm: Spectrum LGBT+ Affinity Groups in have received for our diversity and inclusion efforts from the US, London and Germany; LINK Black/Asian/Minority leading industry organizations, publications and our clients Ethnic (BAME) Affinity Group in London; Colorful are set out below. (Minority/Migration background) Affinity Group in Germany; and Asian, Black, Hispanic and Middle Eastern Affinity  We were ranked #1 for five consecutive years in 2014Groups in the US. A key element of our award-winning 2018 on The American Lawyer’s 2018 Diversity Global Women’s Initiative, we also have 30 local Women’s Scorecard (a survey of 220 of the largest and highestNetwork across the Americas, EMEA and APAC. grossing law firms) as the most diverse firm in the US and ranked #2 for 2019. Together, these groups serve as key resources for professional development, support, educational awareness  We were named by Chambers and Partners as and networking. The groups support pro bono and other “Outstanding Firm for Furthering Diversity and Inclusion” global citizenship initiatives, and host events to encourage at the Diversity and Inclusion Awards: USA 2019. public discussions with distinguished guests on a variety of topics.  We were one of five finalists for the 2019 Morgan Stanley Leadership and Excellence in Inclusion and In addition to the establishment of formal initiatives that form Diversity (LEID) award, based on the results of the the basis of the diversity strategy, we have delivered a outside counsel survey of approximately 50 other invited mandatory unconscious bias training program in all offices firms. globally to all partners, associates and business services  We received 2019 Mansfield Rule Certification Plus from staff. We are developing a second phase of this program to Diversity Lab, confirming that White & Case has reflect positive behavior change among participants in the “affirmatively considered at least 30 percent women, original program. attorneys of color and LGBTQ+ attorneys for leadership and governance roles, equity partner promotions, and We have conducted Respectful Work Environment training in senior lateral positions,” following receiving 2018 London, sexual harassment prevention training for US Mansfield Rule Certification in its inaugural year. partners, and upward reviews of partners and associates. In 2018, we delivered via e-learning an updated sexual  We received Women in Law Empowerment Forum harassment and discrimination prevention training globally. (WILEF) certification as a Gold Standard Firm in the US In Autumn 2019, a new e-learning sexual harassment and UK. We are one of 19 firms that qualified on every training was delivered to all US offices with modules tailored criteria in the US, and one of five firms that qualified for to comply with state laws and regulations. We also strive to both US and UK certification. ensure diversity principles are embedded in our learning and development programs.  We received a second consecutive #1 ranking for lawyers of color on Law360’s 2017 Diversity Snapshot. In 2019, we provided pro bono employment and labor advice to a number of nonprofits and NGOs around the world,  We were named Euromoney Legal Media Group Women including Zoologische Gesellschaft Frankfurt and in Business Law Awards Winner of Best International TraumWerkStadt e.V. in Germany; Harlem Grown, Public Firm for Talent Management (Americas, seventh Advocates and NYC Mission Society in the United States; and consecutive year in 2019; Asia, fifth consecutive year in Hautefort and Médecins Sans Frontières in France. Lawyers 2019), and received its 2019 Country Awards for Best with our affiliate office in Turkey worked with Refugee Rights Firm in Belgium, Finland, Japan and Russia. Turkey and Refugee Solidarity Network on a pilot program to explore how private lawyers can help fill a capacity gap not covered by state-funded legal aid and NGO legal services. This office is also offering education and counseling on labor procedures, rights and entitlements to Syrian refugees. UN GLOBAL COMPACT WHITE & CASE 5 Environmental Principles 7. White & Case supports a precautionary We have conducted three greenhouse gas emission approach to environmental challenges. assessments, most recently in 2018 in collaboration with Greenstone, and in 2010 and 2012 in collaboration with the 8. White & Case undertakes initiatives to promote Carbon Neutral Company. greater environmental responsibility.  Since 2012, our reported per person greenhouse gas 9. White & Case encourages the development emissions in tons of CO2 equivalent gasses have and diffusion of environmentally friendly decreased 36% and our total emissions have decreased technologies. 29%. Through our Green Initiative, we institute best practices  Forty-four percent of our reported emissions come from and track our progress across our network to reduce energy use and 44% from business transportation. the carbon footprint and waste profile of our operations. The initiative is overseen by the Environmental We have implemented an Environmental Management Sustainability Committee, chaired by the Head of Global System for office-level and Firm-level practices, based on the Citizenship, which includes our three Regional Chief American Legal Industry Sustainability Standards developed Operating Officers, as well as representatives from by the Law Firm Sustainability Network. Details of this system many of our offices and our Global Procurement and and our Green Initiative overall are published in our Global Technology Services functions. Environmental Sustainability Report, posted at www.whitecase.com/global-citizenship/green-initiative. Our Environmental Sustainability Policy commits us to recognize that our responsibility to the environment goes Highlights of our progress so far include: beyond legal and regulatory requirements. We take a precautionary approach to potentially harmful effects of  Our London office, our second largest office with more our operations and are committed to reducing our than 800 people, leads our Firm in the sophistication of its environmental impact and improving our environmental environmental practices. It obtained ISO 14001 performance. certification in 2014 and has maintained it each year since. Many of the practices in our EMS are informed by Our Environmental Policy calls for us to: practices already introduced in London.  ensure that we comply with all regulatory requirements applicable to each office worldwide;  42 of our 44 offices have eliminated or significantly reduced single use plastics and disposable serving wear.  prevent pollution from our activities;  We pursue sustainability objectives and promote green  implement sustainable waste management practices for all new leases and renovations. Our Global practices across our offices in order to minimize Office Design Guidelines are outlined in our the quantity of waste we produce and maximize Environmental Sustainability Report. the amount of waste we recycle;  identify key resources used by each office and  Our Global Technology Services utilizes regional implement measures to ensure that we use computer data centers that feature state-of-the-art those resources in an efficient manner; technology that conserves energy while improving both efficiency and reliability. Servers and other equipment  effectively manage our carbon emissions by are managed regionally to reduce our equipment needs continuing to improve the energy efficiency of our and power consumption as much as possible. Our premises and effectively measuring the Americas data center uses 100% wind power, our data environmental impacts of our business travels; and center in Europe provides us with carbon-neutral power from hydropower sources, and our data center in our  work with our key suppliers and employees to Asia-Pacific region also uses 100% renewable energy. promote and improve environmental performance. UN GLOBAL COMPACT WHITE & CASE 6 To build awareness among our people and lower our Our pro bono activities also seek to advance carbon emissions through individual actions, we run an environmental sustainability. Highlights in 2019 annual Green Campaign. More than 2,000 of our people included: have taken our Green Pledge to commit to change at least one personal behavior during the year to lower their  We worked as part of a consortium of law firms under carbon footprint at home, in the office or on their the auspices of the Cyrus R. Vance Center for commute. International Justice to assess existing constitutions and laws in 193 countries to inform a report to the UN Our client-facing Environment & Climate Change Human Rights Council on the right of citizens to a Practice handles some of the world’s largest and most healthy environment. Thirty associates and legal staff sophisticated matters requiring the resolution of complex in 12 offices, led by nine partners, analyzed 27 of the environmental issues. We advise on all aspects of 193 countries. UN Special Rapporteur on Human environmental law, including environmental litigation and Rights and the Environment, Dr. David R. Boyd, will enforcement, due diligence and transactional advice, present this research in a report in 2020. The report compliance and regulatory advice, legislation, climate will include a summary of what is already in place change, renewable energy and clean technology, and around the world and a number of recommendations environmental aspects of infrastructure and project for the UN to consider. The objective is a UN development and finance. resolution recognizing that the right to a healthy environment is a fundamental human right that We have been recognized by Environmental Finance, a belongs to every person, no matter where they live. leading sustainable finance publication, for our groundbreaking green bond work as well as our status as an  We have worked with Conservation International (CI) observer member of the industry-led voluntary for more than 16 years, and in 2019 more than 40 guidelines—the Green Bond Principles—and as a lawyers in ten offices were engaged on a variety of member of its underwriter legal risk mitigation working conservation finance matters for CI, including group. Our policy advisory work includes the Legal ongoing support and investment due diligence for Steering Committee of the Climate Bonds Initiative (CBI), Conservation International Ventures, an investment the Bank of England as chair of the G20 Green Finance fund that deploys financing to small and mediumStudy Group, and the select committees of the UK Green sized enterprises without access to traditional finance Finance Initiative (UKGFI) and Sustainable Development whose business models have a potentially Capital Initiative (SDCI), both partnerships of the City of transformational impact on the environment. London with HM Treasury and Department of Trade and industry, respectively. UN GLOBAL COMPACT WHITE & CASE 7 Anti-Corruption Principles 10. White & Case works against corruption in all its forms, Client Due Diligence (CDD) must be conducted on every including extortion and bribery. new client prior to matter opening. Each new client must be identified, have its identify verified and, where relevant, its We are committed to conducting our activities in accordance ultimate beneficial owner(s) identified and verified. CDD with all applicable anti-bribery laws (including the US Foreign must be verified as up-to-date in relation to existing clients Corrupt Practices Act and the UK Bribery Act). Our Global on receipt of each new instruction. The Firm’s Compliance & Anti-Corruption Policy contains guidelines, standards and New Business department is responsible for conducting procedures to ensure that we and those acting on our behalf CDD and recording data to confirm compliance. understand and comply with applicable anti-corruption laws in all interactions with our clients, prospective clients, We also have established a Global Anti-Money Laundering vendors, service providers and others. Policy to ensure alignment with the relevant provisions of the Financial Action Task Force, an inter-governmental body Any transaction that might give rise to a violation of this which sets international standards on combating money policy and/or any applicable anti-corruption laws must be laundering and the financing of terrorism and proliferation. reported promptly to any administrative director of the Firm, Our network of Money Laundering Reporting Officers the relevant office executive partner, regional section head ensures that all internal and external reporting requirements or regional chief operating officer or general counsel. are met. Alternatively, anonymous reports may be made by calling our AntiCorruption or Whistleblower Hotline. Retaliation The majority of jurisdictions in which the Firm practices have against any individual who reports misconduct or who endorsed those standards and have in place stringent local participates in an investigation of alleged illegal conduct is rules and regulations. strictly prohibited. Our White Collar practice covers every phase of corporate Anti-corruption training is provided in each office, is posted compliance and regulatory enforcement for our clients. We on our intranet and is provided to all new hires. It is tailored provide advice and representation related to risk by function, with procurement, finance and human assessments, compliance reviews, compliance programs resources staff receiving specialized training for their areas. and investigations, as well as the application of global Our General Counsel has led training for commercial clients sanctions, export controls, and national securities as well. regulations. We assist companies in key areas of regulatory focus, such as money laundering and anti-corruption, As part of our annual internal office audit process, we select including under the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the a group of offices on corruption risk. The audit is conducted UK Bribery Act, and Office of Foreign Assets Control statues by our General Counsel and a member of our Global Risk and regulations. Management Committee. Our expenditure reimbursement software is utilized to document all entertainment details and ensure compliance with the corporate entertainment and travel aspects of the policy. UN GLOBAL COMPACT WHITE & CASE 8 Resources White & Case Website https://www.whitecase.com/ White & Case Modern Slavery Act Statement 2018 https://www.whitecase.com/global-citizenship/statement2019 White & Case Firm Annual Review slavery-and-human-trafficking https://www.whitecase.com/2019-annualreview Diversity at White & Case http://www.whitecase.com/diversity/ Global Citizenship at White & Case https://www.whitecase.com/globalWhite & Case Environmental Sustainability Report (updated citizenship/ semi-annually) https://www.whitecase.com/globalcitizenship/green-initiative 2019 White & Case Global Citizenship Review https://www.whitecase.com/2019-global-citizenshipreview White & Case Business & Human Rights Practice https://www.whitecase.com/law/practices/businesshuman-rights UN GLOBAL COMPACT WHITE & CASE 9
