DANGOTE CEMENT PLC UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Communication On Progress (COP) March 2020 Our Committment to Building March 2020 | UNGC Communication on Progress | Dangote Cement Plc | 1 A Sustainable Business Culture TABLE OF CONTENTS President’s Statement 3 PRINCIPLE 8: Undertake Initiatives to Promote Greater The Ten UNGC Sustainability Environmental Responsibility 9 Principles 4 – 11 PRINCIPLE 9: HUMAN RIGHTS Encourage the Development and PRINCIPLE 1: Diffusion of Environmentally Friendly Businesses should support and respect Technologies 9 – 10 the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; 4–5 ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE 10: Human Rights Assessment 4 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including Promoting diversity in the workplace 4 extortion and bribery 10 – 11 PRINCIPLE 2: Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy 10 Make sure that we are not complicit in human rights abuses 5 Whistle Blower Policy 11 Grievance Mechanism 5 Whistle Blowing Cases in 2019 11 Grievance Incidents 6 LABOUR PRACTICES PRINCIPLE 3: Businesses should uphold freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining 6 PRINCIPLE 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour 6 PRINCIPLE 5: Effective abolition of child labour 7 PRINCIPLE 6: Elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation 7 ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLE 7: Businesses Should Support a Precautionary Approach to Environmental Challenges 7–8 2 | Dangote Cement Plc | UNGC Communication on Progress | March 2020 PRESIDENT’S STATEMENT W OUR COMMITMENT hen we signed up as a member of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) at the turn of last decade (2010), we had the singular TO BUILDING A purpose of contributing meaningfully to the social, SUSTAINABLE economic and environmental wellbeing of all the countries where we run our business, in line with BUSINESS CULTURE the Ten UNGC Principles. Exactly a decade later, we are pleased to say that we have progressively entrenched these principles into our sustainability stratdevelopment of sustainability initiatives that reflect egy, ensuring that they guide our business policies the importance that we attach to our economic, and practices, especially in the way we engage our social and environmental performance. This comdiverse stakeholders and partners within our value mitment is further demonstrated in the enthusiasm chain. with which we continue to operationalize our 7 Dangote Sustainability Pillars: Institutional, Operational, We are aware of the environmental and social chalFinancial, Economic, Environmental, Social and Cullenges which currently plague our world, including tural, which collectively reflect the ethos behind The rising cases of unusual disease pandemics, socioDangote Way. economic inequalities, youth unemployment, environmental degradation and of course, the menace Through our business practices, we continue to of climate change and global warming. forge sustainable partnerships both locally and internationally, as we strive to align our environmental, As a leading African business conglomerate, we social and governance (ESG) performance with the recognize that we have the privilege as well as the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals, responsibility to work with other stakeholders in designed to improve human capital development tackling these challenges systematically, and with a and overall socioeconomic and environmental wellsense of determination. This has engineered our being. Dangote’s 2020 Communication on Progress (COP) further highlights the sustainability initiatives and programs that we have undertaken in the course of 2019 and our commitment to continuous improvement in our ESG performance. We understand that this is a journey to promote sustainable growth and development, not just for our business, but for the larger economies and societies where we operate. We remain committed to the advancement of the Ten UNGC Principles anchored on best practices in Human Rights, Labour, Anticorruption and Environment. As we pursue a culture of sustainable business practices, we understand that this is a win-win endeavor that would support our vision of creating sustainable wealth, and enhancing the wellbeing of the present and future generations. Aliko Dangote (GCON) President/CEO, Dangote Industries Limited March 2020 | UNGC Communication on Progress | Dangote Cement Plc | 3 THE TEN UNGC SUSTAINABILITY PRINCIPLES HUMAN RIGHTS man rights and other ESG performance, through our annual surveys. PRINCIPLE 1: Businesses should support and respect the Through our annual Sustainability Reports, we comprotection of internationally proclaimed human municate our Human Rights performance and stewrights; ardship to all stakeholders and interested parties. Overtime, this has helped us to shape stakeholders’ Dangote Cement Plc, in line with the group poliperceptions and earn their trust. cies and standards of its parent company, Dangote Industries Limited, comply with applicable Hu­man We are building a culture of ethical business, proRights laws and integrate same across its internal fessionalism, anticorruption, excellent corporate functions and within the supply chain. We also supgovernance and mutual trust and respect among all port child rights protection in all our operations, conmajor stakeholders. We seek to embody our core sistent with International Labour Organi­sation (ILO) values in the way we do business, including respect Convention No. 182 and IFC Performance Standard for cultural diversity and giving back to the societies 2. In the business, the Child labour ab­olition and in which we operate. We are committed to building prevention policy has been implemented. a workforce of sustainability champions, and environmental and socio-economic impact enthusiasts, Human Rights Assessment: and create a work environment where sustainability In 2019, we took proactive steps to assess and unis a way of life. derstand the human rights impacts of our business activities using internal and external engagements Promoting diversity in the workplace and consultative mechanisms. Also in 2019, we We respect workplace diversity in ethnicity, religion, elicited feedback from key stakeholders on our hunationality, age, gender, education, among others. We are an equal opportunity employer and creates chances for all qualified persons that meet our employment requirements to join our workforce without any form of discrimination. Our principles include: 1. Managing diversity and inclusiveness as a critical element of our business activities; 2. Providing equal opportunities for our employees to demonstrate their capability under a structured performance and merit system designed to meet our corporate objectives; 3. Providing an enabling platform for employees to communicate freely, share ideas, exchange 4 | Dangote Cement Plc | UNGC Communication on Progress | March 2020 different cultural backgrounds. This allows us to respond more flexibly to global challenges as well as to local market needs. We seek to ensure that the countries in which we operate are well represented We respect workplace diversity in our employment. We benefit considerably from their local knowledge, and this also fosters support in ethnicity, religion, nationality, from the local communities. age, gender, education, among PRINCIPLE 2: others. We are an equal opporMake sure that we are not complicit in human tunity employer and creates rights abuses. chances for all qualified persons Grievance Mechanism: that meet our employment reWe recognize the high cultural diversity in our workquirements to join our workforce force and host communities and how this could influence diversified views and expectations. We have without any form of discriminadeveloped grievance redressal systems that allow us tion. to better address conflicts with all stakeholders and protect the rights of involved parties. As stipulated in Dangote‘s Staff Handbook, any employee who considers that he/she has been unjustly treated shall information for continuous learning and develbe given the opportunity to submit such a grievance opment; and, and it shall be thoroughly examined by the appro4. Extending our culture of diversity and inclupriate authority. siveness to partners within our sphere of influence. Host communities are recognized as our business partners who have a stake in the business and The diverse composition of our management team whose stake should be protected. They are providenables us to leverage varied experiences from ed with functional platforms through which they can express their concerns about any of our business March 2020 | UNGC Communication on Progress | Dangote Cement Plc | 5 activities. We ensure that channels of dialogue exist mechanisms and mutually acceptable approaches with all the communities in which we operate. By to protecting the interest of both the employees and so doing, our host communities have access to key the business. Our aim of entrenching collective bardecision makers who represent Dangote businesses gaining agreements is to create a high-performing and are trained and committed to addressing their work force — where employees are highly engaged grievances. If the issues cannot be resolved at the and their views and career aspirations count. local level, they can be escalated to the headquarters for prompt and mutually acceptable resolutions. PRINCIPLE 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and Grievance Incidents compulsory labour In our cement operations, a total of 98 grievances were reported across eleven operations in 2019. As part of commitments to collectively advance huSouth Africa, Zambia, Obajana, Ibese and Gboko man rights practices and positively shape the labour received 28, 15, 12, 11 and 11 grievances, respecmarket, we have a Forced or Compulsory Labour tively. Ghana did not record any grievance in 2019. Prevention and Abolition Policy which aligns with applicable regulations and best practices. All grievances were classified in eight general categories as shown in table below. Employment issues Under this policy, employees regardless of their topped the list with 31 reported cases, followed by employment status, location, contractual arrangecompensation concerns at 16. Local business opments or role are strongly mandated to desist from portunities and complaints about unresolved comengaging in acts or practices that denote forced or mitments have 12 and 10 reported grievances, recompulsory labour, which could include acts that spectively. Employment issues attracted the highest number of grievances. This is understood given the high rate of unemployment within the regions where DCP operates. Land acquisition at Ibese and resettlement in Zambia also generated expression of concerns which are being addressed in line with the provisions of our grievance management policies and standards. LABOUR PRACTICES PRINCIPLE 3: Businesses should uphold freedom of association and the effective recognition promote slavery, bonded work and acts against opof the right to collective bargaining erating labour laws. The policy also necessitates the creation of awareness amongst staff and contractors We respect the rights of our employees’ freedom on issues of forced or compulsory labour, as well of association and collective bargaining expressed as supports progressive activities and initiatives dethrough the freedom to join or not to join a trade signed to ban or prevent the practice of forced labour union or to have recognized employee representaacross our operations in Nigeria and Sub-Saharan tion in accordance with local laws in the markets Africa. All employees, including our contractors are where we operate, without fear of intimidation or required to abide by this policy and report suspected reprisal. cases of forced or compulsory labour to relevant authorities where such cases will be investigated and In markets where our employees are represented addressed as appropriate. In all our operations, we by a legally recognized union or representative, take precautionary measures to ensure that cases of we ensure that we establish constructive dialogue forced labour do not occur. The measures include 6 | Dangote Cement Plc | UNGC Communication on Progress | March 2020 having close engagements with suppliers with high employee numbers to determine working condiIn addition, we are mindful of the social practices tions and wages as well as clear explanation of our of our partners locally and globally and engage only labour and safety rules to third party contractors. with vendors, suppliers, consultants, subcontractors and clients who operate in compliance with human There were no reported cases of forced or compulrights laws. Again, it is instructive that we recorded sory labour across our operations in Nigeria and othzero cases of discrimination in all our plants in Nigeer markets in 2019. ria and other operations in Africa in the year under review. PRINCIPLE 5: Effective abolition of child labour Part of the principles for advancing our Cultural Sustainability Pillar is the promotion of diversity and In the same vein, we have zero tolerance for child inclusivity in our work place. We are committed to labour practices across all our plants and operations creating an open and inclusive environment where in Nigeria and Africa. We have a Child Labour Preall employees feel a sense of belonging. vention Policy which abhors the hiring of children under 18 years. We do not permit the exploitation ENVIRONMENT of children, and will not use child labor in any part of our value chain. At Dangote Cement, we understand that protecting the environment is an essential precondition for soWe remain committed to upholding (International cial justice and economic development. Labour Organisation) ILO’s Child Labour legislation which prohibits employment practices that deprives We agree with UNGC Environment Principles 7, 8 children of their childhood, their potential and their and 9 which stipulate that businesses should take a dignity, and is harmful to physical and mental develproactive approach to environmental challenges; unopment. As such, we engage and create awareness dertake initiatives to promote greater environmental with our staff across all locations, especially plants responsibility; and encourage the development and and operations prone to child labour practices. We diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. conduct due diligence when onboarding new suppliers and vendors to ensure that they are not prone Our adherence to the UNGC Principles 7, 8 and to or culpable in child labour practices. We also con9 is operationalized via the Environmental Pillar of duct periodic spot checks and audits to identify our the organization’s unique sustainability approach defaulters. There were no cases of child labour in termed “Dangote 7-Sustainability Pillars”. our operations in 2019. In an effort to ensure that we accurately track and PRINCIPLE 6 measure our environmental footprint, in 2019, we Elimination of discrimination in respect of started the deployment of the EMEX data manageemployment and occupation ment system, a platform that would enable us effectively document and manage our environmental, Dangote Cement is an equal opportunities employsocial and governance performance. er of labour. Suitability for employment and progression is driven purely by qualification, merit, relevant PRINCIPLE 7: experience, competence, good conduct, sincerity, Businesses Should Support a Precautionary hard work, leadership qualities, and so on. We are Approach to Environmental Challenges deeply committed to an inclusive culture and do not discriminate against individuals on the basis of We recognize the importance of managing the envirace, color, gender, age, tribe, national origin, relironmental impacts resulting from our activities and gion, marital status, citizenship amongst others. We building constructive and positive relationship with encourage staff to blow the whistle on any cases of stakeholders based on trust and respect. discrimination and harassment and we treat those cases based on laid down rules. March 2020 | UNGC Communication on Progress | Dangote Cement Plc | 7 For all new projects and/or any significant modifiIn addition, structured, systematic and independent cation of existing plant, a comprehensive Environenvironmental audits are carried out by the Group mental & Social Impact Assessment (ESIA) is carried Environmental team and external parties (i.e. Control out to mitigate potential/significant environmental Authorities, Certification Bodies, etc.) on a routine impacts and risks that might be associated with basis to verify the site Environmental Management new installation as required by local regulations and System (EMS) effectiveness and the improvement Group policies. of environmental performance. In an effort to ensure that we accurately track and measure our environmental footprint, in 2019, we started the deployment of the EMEX data management system, a platform that would enable us effectively document and manage our environmental, social and governance performance. 8 | Dangote Cement Plc | UNGC Communication on Progress | March 2020 PRINCIPLE 8: Undertake Initiatives to Promote Greater Dangote Cement is a member of the Global Cement Environmental Responsibility & Concrete Association (GCCA) and subscribes to the GCCA Sustainability Framework Guidelines. The As a responsible business, we take the manageGCCA gathers and publishes data recording the inment of our environmental footprints seriously. Key dustry’s sustainability commitments, as well as pubPerformance Indicators (KPIs) on relevant environlishing member guidelines and initiating research mental aspects including Green House Gas (GHG) on five key areas relevant for the cement industry, emissions, Dust, Water and Energy Consumption, namely climate change and energy, social responWaste and Environmental Incidents are reported sibility, environment and nature, and circular econand reviewed at both Site, BU and Group level on omy. a monthly basis, to better inform the company decision making process, stimulate the continuous imThe business supports and facilitates environmenprovement process and improve overall awareness. tal-related initiatives undertaken by each facility during the World Environment Day. In 2017, Dangote Cement initiated a process to address climate change-related issues within the busiPRINCIPLE 9: ness. One of the first steps was to set up the reportEncourage the Development and Diffusion of ing systems to measure and report GHG emissions Environmentally Friendly Technologies from all operations (i.e. kilns, quarries, cement plants and transport) and to ensure that all the opOur plants have all been built in the last twelve years. erations adhered to the prescribed methodologies. They have been designed to be intrinsically efficient The cement business achieved an important milethrough the adoption of cutting edge technology in stone through the disclosure of 2018 GHG emiscement production such as (i) vertical roller mills sions via the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), a for raw material, coal and cement grinding which process which will continue in the next year. Equally are 40-50% more efficient than traditional ball mills, important was the publication of its first Sustainabil(ii) pre-heater and pre-calcinate plants which are ity Report last year in line with the Global Reporting regarded as the most efficient technology in the Initiative (GRI) and Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) cement industry, (iii) mechanical material transport requirements. and transfer system equipped only with conveyors March 2020 | UNGC Communication on Progress | Dangote Cement Plc | 9 and bucket elevators which are up to 80% more efficient that the traditional pneumatic systems, (iv) major process fans provided with Variable Frequency Drivers (VFD) to vary the ventilation rate based on the actual demand/operating conditions which can reduce the input power by 40-80% (depending on the % flow rate) compared to more traditional dampers, just to mentioned a few example. These measures have resulted in less CO2 emissions per ton of clinker and cementitious material produced. ANTI-CORRUPTION In order to minimize the release of Dust emissions PRINCIPLE 10: to the environment (one of the most significant Businesses should work against corruption in all environmental aspect associated with cement proits forms, including extortion and bribery duction) and ensure compliance with both legal requirements and, where applicable, international We are committed to fighting bribery and corruption standards, our cement kilns have been provided across all locations with extra precautionary meawith the state-of-the-art dust abatement equipment sures taken in countries that have been identified as including bag house filters and electrostatic precipihigh risk. We have an Anti–bribery and Corruption tators. The good design of kilns, combined with good Policy which is part of the overall Anti–Fraud Comcontrol and maintenance practices adopted, allows pliance Programme. It aims to align with all relevant the plants to maintain the average dust emissions at Acts, Codes, Laws, Guidelines and Policies designed the stacks in a range between 20 and 30 mg/Nm3, to prevent, detect and respond to issues on corrupi.e. well below the typical regulatory threshold limits tion and bribery. of the countries where we operate and the specifications of the IFC/World Bank. We have zero tolerance for all forms of frauds, including but not limited to; bribery and corruption, asOur facilities have been implementing waste manset misappropriation and financial statements fraud. agement plans, including wastes segregation and We investigate any fraud or suspected fraud without storage of both solid and liquid wastes. We are comregard to the individuals involved. This policy is part mitted to continuous improvement in this regard. of the overall Anti-Fraud Compliance Programme within the organization: Cement production is regarded as a ‘dry’ process Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) using relatively low amount of water per unit of finNigerian Customs Agency ished product. However, most of DCP plants have Immigration Act been designed to recover, store and recycle groundCBN Guidelines water resulting from quarry operations and/or the UK Bribery Act 2010 stormwater run-off decanting from the plant, thus Foreign Corrupt Practices Act reducing the consumption of freshwater and mitigate the potential impact on local communities and Anti-Fraud Programme farming. The Company has established a robust Anti-Fraud Programme that sets out the following: • anti-fraud awareness and communication strategies; • fraud and corruption prevention mechanisms; • fraud and corruption detection mechanisms; • fraud response mechanisms; and • enforcement initiatives and sanction grid. 10 | Dangote Cement Plc | UNGC Communication on Progress | March 2020 In addition, at Dangote Cement, we established an Whistle Blowing Cases in 2019 Anti-Fraud Management Committee to implement Some of the investigated allegations initiated by the Anti-Corruption Programme and to report fraud whistle blowing include: stolen consignment and and misconduct-related issues to the Group Managabandonment of truck, misappropriation of customing Director and the Board Audit, Compliance and er’s fund by sales officer, deliberate overloading of Risk Management Committee. trucks, unauthorized collection of cement, short delivery of bulk cement, fraudulent diversion of trucks, In our Nigerian operations, we are guided by two stealing of spare parts, conflict of interest in houseanti-bribery laws which are the Corrupt Practices and keeping contracts, among others. These were adOther Related Offences Act of the Independent Cordressed in line with our anticorruption and business rupt Practices Commission (ICPC); and the Money misconduct policies and standards. Laundering (Prohibition) Act of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). Whistle Blower Policy: We believe strongly in the prevention and detection of fraudulent activities. To this extent, we constituted the Anti-Fraud Committee (AFC) charged with the responsibility of deciding all cases of allegations of irregularities, misconduct and improprieties which are initiated by whistle-blowing. In line with SEC Code of Corporate Governance Section 32, we have a Whistle Blowing Policy that defines what constitutes acts of irregularities and other misconducts which are summarized as follows: • Fraudulent activities • Corruption • Asset misappropriation • Fraudulent financial statement • Health & safety risk March 2020 | UNGC Communication on Progress | Dangote Cement Plc | 11
